Vision Sustainability Report 15-16 Contents IndianOil@Work Values in action Care Caring for the environment and community Innovation Pioneering the spirit of creativity & innovation Trust Fostering relationships for a lifetime Passion Leading with passion to excel 2016 on Care Innovati Year of Core Values n Trust Passio Sustainability Report 2015-16 Living by Our Core Values Contents Vision Report Profile, Scope & Boundary Contents Report Profile, Scope & Boundary 1 Chairman's Message 2 About IndianOil 6 Stakeholder Engagement & 17 Materiality Key Impacts, Risks & Opportunities 26 Corporate Governance 28 Sustainable Development 46 Initiatives Economic Performance 57 Sustainability Report 2015-16 Living by Our Core Values Contents Vision Report Profile, Scope & Boundary Environmental 66 Performance Social 81 Performance 90 Employees Health & 101 Safety Product 105 Responsibility GRI 112 Guidelines UNGC 124 Principles Linkage 127 Abbreviations Sustainability Report 2015-16 Living by Our Core Values Report Profile, Scope & Boundary Contents Chairman's Message Report Profile, Scope & Boundary In fulfilment of our commitments, IndianOil has of GRI guidelines, maintaining the required quality In reporting our sustainability performance for been voluntarily reporting on its sustainability and transparency at all levels. This report has not 2015-16, there have been no significant changes in performance every year. The year 2016 is been assured by a third party. Although, we the scope, boundary, or measurement methods, celebrated as the year of Core Values; hence, we acknowledge the value of external assurance, we from our last reporting period. Neither, are there have decided to theme our Sustainability Report have opted to give priority to developing and any restatements from the previous year. 2015-16 as ‘Living by our Core Values’. This is the streamlining our in-house processes. While this report will only be available in soft-copy eleventh report on our sustainability disclosures PDF format, we are publishing a 20-page abridged The reporting boundary for disclosing on our and is prepared in accordance with the version of the Sustainability Report as our sustainability performances includes all our ‘Comprehensive’ requirements of the Oil & Gas Sustainability Highlights 2015-16. This is in line national operations of Refineries, Pipelines, Sector Supplement (OGSS), Global Reporting with our sustainability commitment of saving Marketing, R&D, and Business Development paper. To access both our Sustainability Report and Initiative (GRI) G4 guidelines and the principles of activities. The report, however, excludes Sustainability Highlights 2015-16, stakeholders the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC). This performance of our subsidiaries/ Group’s can visit our sustainability web page at: report provides an insight to the Sustainability Associates and Joint Ventures. https://www.iocl.com/AboutUs/sustainability.aspx activities and advancements made by IndianOil during the period 1st April 2015 to 31st March 2016. The report provides a summarized view of our enviro-socio-economic initiatives while also sharing our corporate values and our long term vision. Our endeavours towards sustainability have been determined and prioritized based on the 2016 n Care Innovatio materiality analysis conducted by us, engaging all Year of the relevant stakeholders who have helped in Core Values Passio n Trust identifying the risks and opportunities associated with our business, and across our value chain. The data for this report has been screened by our in-house experts, in accordance with the principles Sustainability Report 2015-16 Living by Our Core Values 1 Chairman's Message Report Profile, Scope & Boundary About IndianOil Chairman's Message Dear Stakeholders, The year 2015 was a breakthrough year in the On behalf of the IndianOil family, I have great prolonged deliberations on global climate change. pleasure in presenting to you the 11th edition of In the landmark COP-21 Meet at Paris during our Sustainability Report, for the financial year Nov-Dec. 2015, global leaders finally agreed on a 2015-16. common pathway for the resurgence of Planet Earth’s eco-system. India, led by Prime Minister Sustainable development, that is, economic Narendra Modi, has committed to reduce its development without depletion of natural dependence on fossil fuels by 40% by the year resources and without compromising the ability of 2030 and lower its emission levels by 30-35% from future generations, has been engaging global the 2005 levels. attention for many years now. Besides scarcity of natural resources like water, the impact of rise in As India’s flagship downstream oil & gas company with a proud legacy of fuelling the nation’s growth pollution levels, natural disasters and adverse for over five decades now, IndianOil is committed climatic changes are being felt by one and all across to environment conservation and ecological the world. balance as integral to its business. Its mandate to The hydrocarbon energy that has powered fuel the growth of India and its people in the spirit mankind’s rapid growth is coming under intense of a national trust for economic prosperity is scrutiny from all corners of society today. Its reflected in its corporate Vision, to be The Energy adverse impact on climate change, on of India and to become A Globally Admired environment and ecological balance, is on the Company. At the organisational level, the agenda of global leaders, together with the need for sharing and utilising this valuable resource well. This has prompted nations as well as corporates to work towards a balanced and holistic growth, with prudent use of energy and resources as a clear goal. Sustainability Report 2015-16 Living by Our Core Values 2 Chairman's Message Report Profile, Scope & Boundary About IndianOil commitment of IOCians in serving the nation The realities of the current times demand prudent 35% of the nation’s refining capacity. Our refineries manifests itself in the core values of Care, deployment of key public resources, including oil & constitute about 93% of our net energy Innovation, Passion and Trust, making it a ‘Vision gas. While smooth and uninterrupted supply of consumption. We are pursuing various strategies with Values.’ The legacy of positivity emerging petroleum products is crucial to turn the wheels of to reduce energy imports and operational fuel from this has made IndianOil a well-respected progress of nations, creating benevolent social consumption, chief among them being process business house. As we celebrate 2016 as the Year impact and minimising the adverse impact of efficiency improvements by incorporating best of Core Values, we have chosen the theme ‘Living energy use on ecology is equally important. global practices, introduction of renewable by our Core Values’ for our Sustainability Report energy, optimisation of steam and other 2015-16. resources, etc. These measures helped us achieve achieve the ambitious target of achievingBS-VI fuel The year 2015-16 was a remarkable year for an all-time low specific energy consumption standards by the year 2020. This will help reduce IndianOil in terms of operational performance (MBN) of 53.8 in our refineries, and reduce the automobile emissions further. IndianOil is also even as it worked to consolidate its core business overall specific carbon footprint by 7.2% from focussing on production of bio-CNG from and expand new businesses. The Corporation set 2012-13 to 2015-16. agricultural waste and municipal solid waste, as an new records in product sales, refinery and alternative to transportation fuels. Large-scale automation of our operations, pipelines through puts and distillate yield, besides reduction in fugitive emissions, vapour recovery Electric mobility is a promising solution for registering the lowest fuel losses and better energy units, etc., being carried out across refineries are vehicular emissions and IndianOil is actively utilisation. helping to bring down fuel losses further. Also, involved in energy storage solutions besides Our state-of-the-art 15-million tonnes per annum initiatives to improve energy efficiency of office charging stations at select retail points. Paradip Refinery, dedicated to the nation by the buildings through use of improved lighting and The National Policy on Bio-fuels envisages appliances, use of renewable energy and other Hon'ble Prime Minister in February 2016, is the accelerated promotion of bio-fuels to reduce green building measures, are also being widely most modern refinery with capabilities to produce dependency on crude oil imports and at the same practiced. We are also augmenting our vast BS-VI norm fuels and other green auto-fuel time avail of the resultant economic, social and pipelines network of nearly 12,000 km, a lowvariants. environmental benefits. As part of this, IndianOil is carbon fuel-transport alternative to road, rail or As a responsible corporate citizen, IndianOil is gearing to set up second-generation ethanol ship movement. deeply committed to creating a low-carbon production units using agriculture waste as economy. Fuel standards and specifications have As a corporate that aspires to be ‘The Energy of feedstock. seen significant improvement since the launch of India’, development of environment-friendly, With the commissioning of IndianOil Group’s 11th alternative sources of energy is a priority area at the country’s emission control programme in refinery at Paradip Refinery, we own and operate IndianOil. We have been targeting to increase our 2003, with plans already being drawn up to Sustainability Report 2015-16 Living by Our Core Values 3 Chairman's Message Report Profile, Scope & Boundary About IndianOil renewable energy generation capacity by fourpart of our sustainability agenda. I am happy to the daily lives of our customers, empowering them folds from the current level of 80 MW to 340 MW share that, through implementation of various and helping them live better. This way, we have by the year 2020. During 2015-16, our renewable water-saving measures, we have been able to successfully combined our corporate social energy projects generated 134 GWh of energy reduce the specific water footprint of our responsibility agenda with our business offerings, with an estimated emissions savings of 1,10,000 refineries by about 5% between 2012-13 and meeting the energy needs of millions of people tonnes of CO2 equivalent. Additionally, as part of 2015-16. We have also enhanced the net water across the country every day, while at the same our retail network solarisation initiative, solar PV reuse capability in our refineries to 87.5% and time growing to be the largest commercial systems of about 15 MW capacity have been installed more than 500 rainwater harvesting enterprise in India. As a public sector company, we installed in more than 4,000 fuel stations. systems across operating locations. have always striven to build infrastructure ahead IndianOil has already forayed into nuclear energy In waste management, apart from our in-house of demand, even in areas that were initially not and the notification of the Atomic Energy practices, we are also undertaking a municipal viable for operations or profitable for business. (Amendment) Act, 2015 by the Government of solid waste-to-fuel project in Varanasi, under the Today, as always, we are proud to spearhead the India has paved the way for our JV, NPCIL-IndianOil Swachh Bharat Abhiyan. IndianOil is also setting up Government’s agenda to make energy accessible Nuclear Energy Corporation Ltd., to build and the country's biggest sewage treatment plant in and affordable across the socio-economic divides. operate nuclear power plants. Mathura at an investment of Rs. 40 crore. This During the year 2015-16, IndianOil spearheaded plant will treat the sewage water from Mathura the successful implementation of PaHaL Besides the vibrant research undertaken in and Vrindavan towns, which was so far being (Pratyaksha Hastantrit Labh) scheme by the oil tribology, refinery process technologies and discharged into River Yamuna, for use in IndianOil’s marketing companies for direct benefit transfer of catalysts specially suited to Indian conditions, Mathura Refinery operations. Moreover, the LPG to customers across the nation. The ambitious IndianOil’s cutting-edge R&D is fully focussed on quantum of water being drawn by the refinery for scheme of the Union Government, covering over alternative energy programmes in bio-energy, processing purposes will no longer be required. 92% of LPG customers as on 31st March, 2016, has solar energy, Hydrogen energy, H-CNG blends, won the Guinness Book of World Records synthetic fuels and shale oil. Sustainable Safety in operations is of paramount importance in recognition as the world’s largest cash transfer technologies such as bio-degradable, synthetic the oil & gas sector. Through regular training, mock programme for households. IndianOil also led lubricants and plastics is another focus area. We fire-drills and state-of-the-art systems, we are from the front in successfully rolling out the are also augmenting our existing R&D capabilities ensuring that safety becomes an integral part of Government of India's 'Give It Up’ campaign for and accordingly expanding the facilities with a new the daily routine and that our operating locations LPG consumers. In the wake of the hugely centre that would have demo-scale plants on remain safe and incident-free. successful PaHaL and Give It Up initiatives, renewable energy. I have always held the belief that we are blessed to Pradhan Mantri Ujjwala Yojana is now reaching out Water and waste management also forms a key be in a business that continuously brings energy to Sustainability Report 2015-16 Living by Our Core Values 4 Chairman's Message Report Profile, Scope & Boundary About IndianOil to 50 million women from BPL (below poverty line) and kitchens, besides providing other required pursuing multiple commitments – at the families in the next three years, offering them assistance, giving hope to the hapless citizens. operational, social and environmental levels – to deposit-free LPG cooking gas connections. To my In another major catastrophe, our neigh bouring fully realise IndianOil's potential as the prime mind, this is the biggest social transformation country Nepal experienced one of the most mover of a resurgent India. Your valuable programme of its kind in the world. devastating earthquakes in 2015, resulting in huge suggestions, comments and questions are In the past five-and-a-half decades, IndianOil has losses to life and property. During this dire period, welcome at sustainability@indianoil.in supported innumerable community initiatives in IndianOil extended complete support to the stateI look forward to your support and best wishes! India, touching the lives of millions of people owned Nepal Oil Corporation and set up 12 positively by supporting environmental and disaster relief camps to ensure that fuel and other health-care projects and social, cultural and requirements of the affected areas are fully met. educational programmes. IndianOil's Sustainability Report 2015-16 During 2015-16, as part of our ongoing corporate showcases how IndianOil People are relentlessly responsibility programme, we undertook CSR initiatives to the tune of Rs. 156 crore. We have constructed over 2,850 toilets in schools across 16 States in support of the Swachh Vidyalaya Abhiyan of the Government of India. With serving the nation at the very core of their business values, IndianOil People have always led from the front in times of national emergencies. A recent example of our commitment to the ‘people-first’ philosophy is the way our teams serve the nation in times of natural calamities and national emergencies. In November 2015, the worst floods to hit Chennai in a hundred years stranded millions and paralysed the metro. The city’s infrastructure was under threat and supplies of daily essentials were fast depleting. In this hour of crisis, IndianOil People fanned out and worked tirelessly to secure fuel supply both for vehicles Sustainability Report 2015-16 Living by Our Core Values 5 About IndianOil Chairman's Message Stakeholder Engagement & Materiality About IndianOil IndianOil is the country’s largest commercial refinery, the company now owns and operates 11 Petrochemicals, Explosives, and Exports; the enterprise, with a sales turnover of INR 3,99,601 refineries with a combined refining capacity of refineries clocked a throughput of 56.69 million crore (US$ 61 billion) and profit after tax of INR 80.7 MMTPA (million metric tonnes per annum). tonnes with 102.2% capacity utilisation; and 10,399 crore (US$ 1,589 million) for the financial Sustaining its market leadership, IndianOil pipelines network has registered the highest ever st year 2015-16. IndianOil is ranked 161 among the accounts for nearly half of India's petroleum throughput of 79.8 million tonnes in the year 2015world's largest corporates and first among Indian products market share, 35% of national refining 16. With sustained focus on expanding its enterprises in the prestigious Fortune ‘Global 500’ capacity (together with its subsidiary Chennai Exploration & Production portfolio, IndianOil is listing for the year 2016. Renewing its Petroleum Corporation Ltd., or CPCL), and 71% of actively engaged in exploration activities in 8 commitment to the Corporate Vision of being 'The downstream sector pipelines through capacity. domestic blocks and 7 overseas blocks, with Energy of India,' IndianOil maintained its sustained The Group headquartered in Delhi, has its working interest in each ranging from 3.5% to 50%. growth and market leadership in 2015-16. subsidiaries operating from Mauritius, Sri Lanka, Being the second largest player in the domestic With a 33,000-strong work-force currently, United Arab Emirat, Sweden, Netherlands and petrochemicals, IndianOil is setting up a IndianOil is meeting India’s energy demands for United States of America. The company also polypropylene plant and an ethylene glycol plant over five decades. With a corporate vision to be formed about 15 joint ventures with reputed at its Paradip Refinery to consolidate its presence 'The Energy of India' and to become 'A globally business partners from India and abroad to pursue in the petrochemicals business. Currently, the admired company,' IndianOil's business interests diverse business interests. Group offers a full slate of petrochemical products extend across the entire hydrocarbon value-chain Besides reaching every nook and corner of the and intermediates which covers over 80% of the –from refining, pipeline transportation and country with a 45,000 plus customer touch-points, plastics applications. marketing of petroleum products besides the company also owns a pipeline network spans Our R&D Centre at Faridabad has pioneered the exploration & production of crude oil & gas, about 11,750 km with a throughput capacity of development of lubricant formulations, refinery marketing of natural gas and petrochemicals, 85.5 MMTPA for crude oil and petroleum products processes, pipeline transportation technologies alternative energy and globalisation of and 9.5 MMSCMD for gas. Indane LPG cooking gas and alternative fuels. IndianOil holds 454 active downstream operations. reaches the doorsteps of 9.88 crore households patents, including 184 Indian patents, 92 US During the year, IndianOil has commissioned its through a network of 9144 distributors. patents and 178 patents of other countries. The state-of-the-art Paradip Refinery on the eastern During 2015-16, IndianOil has sold 80.72 million incorporation of a 4.17 MMTPA INDMAX unit coast of India. With the commissioning of Paradip tonnes of finished products, including POL, Gas, based on IndianOil R&D developed technology, at Sustainability Report 2015-16 Living by Our Core Values 6 About IndianOil Chairman's Message Stakeholder Engagement & Materiality Paradip Refinery marked a major milestone in the nation. This ambitious scheme of the Union campaigns for LPG consumers. IndianOil IndianOil’s quest to emerge as a world-class Government has covered over 92% of LPG pioneered the implementation of “smokeless technology solutions provider. customers and has won recognition as the world’s village” programme by providing more than During the year, IndianOil spearheaded successful largest cash transfer programme for households by 1,60,000 LPG connections and declared over implementation of PaHaL (Pratyaksha Hastantrit the Guinness Book of World Records. 3,400 villages as smokeless villages as on Labh) scheme by the oil marketing companies for IndianOil has instigated the successful rolling out 31st March 2016. direct benefit transfer of LPG to customers across of Government of India's 'GiveItUp’ and ‘GiveBack’ Sustainability Report 2015-16 Living by Our Core Values 7 About IndianOil Chairman's Message Stakeholder Engagement & Materiality The Energy of India Strong Focus on Strong Support Integrated Innovation Driven by strong from Largest Pan-India Leading Market Operations across through R&D Management Government Refiner in Pipeline Share Across the entire Energy and Alternate and dedicated of India India Infrastructure Energy Portfolio Value Chain Energy Sources employees l Maharatna l 11 refineries l About 11,750 km l 46.7% l 2nd largest l Overall 454 l Consistent CPSE; GoI with long pipelines petroleum domestic patents as on growth and Control: 58.57% 80.7 MMTPA for crude oil, market share player in 31.03.2016 profitability Capacity petroleum with over Petrochemicals l Government l New focus on l Highest ever products and 45,000 + nominated l 35.08% of l E&P: 8 domestic Alternate and profit of INR gas with a touch points Directors on IOC Domestic and 7 overseas Renewable 10,399 crore throughput Board Refining blocks Energy (Wind, capacity of l Debt / Equity Capacity 85.5 MMTPA of Solar, Biofuels, l Contribution to of 0.71x (as petroleum Nuclear) exchequer of on March US$20.17 Billion products and 9.5 31, 2016) in 2015-16 MM Standard Cubic Meter Per Day of gas. Sustainability Report 2015-16 Living by Our Core Values 8 About IndianOil Chairman's Message Stakeholder Engagement & Materiality Financial Prudence Sustaining leadership • Minimise costs and maximise in core business speed • Excel in customer service delivery • Optimise crude and product • Be ahead of the competition throughput • Aim to be th e 'Company of Choice' • Simplify our processes and • Design processes for the sole benefit procedures • Seek out technology that enhances of costumers Enhancing simplicity and sustainability Leveraging our our reputation & CUSTOMER SERVICE assets brand value l Excellence l Very Good • Find better ways of execution that l Good l Average l Poor ensures quality, time and cost •Build brand value through actions effective implementation •Let our actions imbibe and reflect the • Keep reviewing strategies periodically core values of Care, Innovation, Passion and Trust • Stay relevant for the future • Be open to opportunities Shaping Investing in our people • Shape aspirations and form common goals Operational Excellence • Make safety an attitude • Improve operational efficiency, safety and reliability, which enables much more the future • Invest in building competencies and capabilities • Develop the next generation of leaders • Encourage people to take definitive, than just cost saving bolder decisions • Focus on safety and reliability of infrastructure • Keep the workforce motivated Sustainability Report 2015-16 Living by Our Core Values 9 About IndianOil Chairman's Message Stakeholder Engagement & Materiality Our Business Refineries: Petrochemicals l Total refining capacity of 80.7 MMTPA l Highest ever petrochemical sales of 2.54 million l Highest ever crude oil throughput of 56.69 million tonnes metric tones l Best-ever combined distillate yield of 80.6 wt% l Operates country’s largest LAB and PX/PTA plants l Lowest specific energy consumption (in terms of MBN) at 53.8 l PROPEL’s presence in 71 countries Pipelines R&D l Garnered 454 patents including 92 US patents, 184 l Total pipeline network of 11,750 km indian patents and 178 other international patents l Highest ever throughput of 79.8 million tonnes l Developed 125 product formulations l Added 525 km pipeline length l Setting-up new R&D centre exclusively for Alternate & Renewable Energy Marketing l 72.65 million tonnes of petroleum products sold Exploration & Production l 45,000 + customer touch points l 8 domestic assets l Automated 2,069 fuel stations l 7 overseas assets l Aviation fuel stations in 100 cities l 3 producing Oil & Gas assets Alternate Energy & Sustainable Development: Gas l Total installed capacity of 80 MW of grid connected Renewable Energy l 1.92 million tonnes of Natural Gas sold l Total installed capacity of 1.7 MW of off-grid solar power systems l LNG at doorstep imitative has achieved a sales l Solarized about 4,200 retail outlets of 19,000 tonnes l City Gas Distribution is operational in two cities l Implemented nearly 500 Rainwater Harvesting Systems l Started direct import of LNG at Dahej l 70 events made carbon neutral Sustainability Report 2015-16 Living by Our Core Values 10 About IndianOil Chairman's Message Stakeholder Engagement & Materiality Brand Portfolio Sustainability Report 2015-16 Living by Our Core Values 11 About IndianOil Chairman's Message Stakeholder Engagement & Materiality Shareholding Pattern 2.63 Others 2.33 Individuals 19.94 Corporate Bodies 58.57 Central Government / State Government 4.2 Foreign Institutional Investors 10.16 Insurance Companies 0.53 Financial Institutions/ 1.64 Banks Mutual Funds Sustainability Report 2015-16 Living by Our Core Values 12 About IndianOil Chairman's Message Stakeholder Engagement & Materiality Value Chain Exploration & Production Transportation Refining Marketing To meet the growing energy We transport crude and We refine and process crude We deliver finished products demand in long term, we finished oil & gas products oil to produce petroleum to our customers through discover and develop oil and through various modes such products such as petrol, our 45,000+ touch points. gas fields in India and as ship, road, rail and diesel, LPG, lubricants and overseas. pipelines. petrochemicals etc. Fuels Upstream Midstream Downstream Our Upstream segment manages exploration, To transport hydrocarbon Our Downstream segment operates development and production activities. across the value chain hydrocarbon value chains covering three main businessesfuels, lubricants and petrochemicals Sustainability Report 2015-16 Living by Our Core Values 13 About IndianOil Chairman's Message Stakeholder Engagement & Materiality Group Companies and Foreign Subsidiaries Expanding Horizons IndianOil is currently metamorphosing from a pure existing refining business with petrochemical marketing ventures and simultaneously scouting downstream oil & gas major in India to a vertically facilities, besides making large investments in E&P new opportunities for marketing and export of integrated, transnational energy company. and marketing ventures for oil and gas in India and petroleum products to new energy markets in Asia IndianOil is already on the way to becoming a abroad. and Africa. major player in petrochemicals by integrating its IndianOil is strengthening its existing overseas Sustainability Report 2015-16 Living by Our Core Values 14 About IndianOil Chairman's Message Stakeholder Engagement & Materiality Joint Ventures Avi-Oil India Pvt. Ltd. Delhi Aviation Fuel Facility Private Limited Green Gas Ltd. GSPL India Transco Ltd. Setting up and operation of Speciality lubricants City gas distribution Setting up of Natural Gas Pipelines Aviation Fuel Facility at Delhi Airport. NYCO SA, France and DIAL and BPCL GAIL GSPL, HPCL, BPCL Balmer Lawrie & Co. Ltd. GSPL India Gasnet Ltd. IOT Infrastructure & Energy Services Ltd. IndianOil Adani Gas Pvt. Ltd. IndianOil Petronas Pvt. Ltd. Setting up of Natural Gas Pipelines Terminalling services City gas distribution Terminalling services and parallel marketing of LPG GSPL, HPCL, BPCL Oiltanking GmbH, Germany. Adani Gas Ltd. Petronas, Malaysia. IndianOil LNG Pvt. Ltd. IndianOil Skytanking Ltd. Kochi Salem Pipelines Pvt Limited Indian Synthetic Rubber Limited Setting up of 5 MMTPA Aviation fuel facility projects Laying pipeline for transport of Manufacturing of Styrene Butadiene LNG terminal at Ennore LPG from Kochi to Salem Rubber at Panipat IOT Infrastructure & Energy Services Ltd., IDFC Alternatives Ltd., Skytanking GmbH, Germany. BPCL TSRC Taiwan and Marubeni Japan ICICI Bank Ltd. Lubrizol India Pvt. Ltd. Mumbai Aviation Fuel Farm NPCIL – IndianOil Nuclear Petronet LNG Ltd. Suntera Nigeria 205 Limited Lube Additives Facility Pvt. Ltd. Energy Corporation Limited LNG Imports/distribution Oil exploration activities Setting up of common-user integrated For setting up Nuclear Power Plant aviation fuel infrastructure. BPCL, ONGC, GAIL, Oil India Ltd. and Suntera Lubrizol Inc., USA Nuclear Power Corporation GDFI and ADB Resources Ltd., Cyprus BPCL, HPCL, & MIAL of India Limited BPCL Bharat Petroleum Corporation Ltd., HPCL Hindustan Petroleum Corporation Ltd., ONGC Oil and Natural Gas Corporation Ltd., GAIL GAIL (India) Ltd., RIL Reliance Industries Ltd., IL&FS Infrastructure Leasing & Financial Services Ltd., ICICI ICICI Bank, SBI State Bank of India, EOL Essar Oil Ltd., PIL – Petronet India Ltd., KPT Kandla Port Trust, GIIC Gujarat Industrial Investment Corporation Ltd., CB Canara Bank., DIAL Delhi International Airport Pvt. Ltd., TSRC – TSRC Corporation, Taiwan, ADB Asian Development Bank, GSPL Gujarat State Petronet Ltd., GDF Gaz de France, MIAL Mumbai International Airport Limited Sustainability Report 2015-16 Living by Our Core Values 15 About IndianOil Chairman's Message Stakeholder Engagement & Materiality Subsidiaries Our Associations, Charters & Membership Chennai Petroleum Corporation Limited Advertising Standards Council International Indian Auto LPG Standing Conference of Public Refining of petroleum products of India (ASCI) Coalition (IAC) Enterprises National National National (SCOPE) National Indian Catalyst Private Limited Manufacturing and marketing of FCC catalyst/additive Association of Business Indian Institution of Industrial TER I-BusinessCouncil for Communicators Engineering Sustainable IndianOil-Creda Biofuels Limited of India National National Development National Plantation of jatropha & extraction of oil for bio-diesel IndianSociety of Advertisers Indian LP Gas Industry World LP Gas Association, (ISA) Association Paris IndianOil (Mauritius) Ltd., Mauritius National (ILPGIA) National International Terminalling, retailing & aviation refuelling International Advertising Associated Chambers of India International collaborations Lanka IOC PLC, Sri Lanka Association Commerce and Industry of India (U21 Global Universitas, Singapore, (IAA) National (ASSOCHAM) National IFP France, etc.) International Retailing, terminaling & bunkering International IOC Middle East FZE, UAE Council of Indian Employers Confederation of Indian International Transparency Lube blending & marketing of lubricants & base oil (CIE) Industry (CII) International National National India (TII) International IOC Sweden AB, Sweden Investment company for E&P project in Venezuela Federation of Indian Chambers AII India Management United Nations Global Association of Commerce and Compact IOCL (USA) Inc., USA (AIMA) National Industry (FCCI) National (UNGC) International Participation in shale gas asset project IndOil Global B.V., The Netherlands National HRD Network Petroleum Federation of India International Air Transport Investment company for integrated LNG project in Canada (NHRD) (PetroFed) Association National National (IATA) International Sustainability Report 2015-16 Living by Our Core Values 16 Stakeholder Engagement About IndianOil & Materiality Key Impacts, Risks & Opportunities Stakeholder Engagement & Materiality IndianOil values its stakeholders and continuously The major focuses of stakeholder engagement are: engaged them through various forums throughout the year. These forums are aimed to understand To build trust To frequently To evaluate stakeholders opinions and to build trust and longthrough high monitor the the concerns/ term relationships by structured collaborations transparency and issues/ concerns situations and and communications across earmarked channels. demonstrating raised by our develop appropriate On account of our large business units, supply accountability stakeholders measures at all levels chain and a huge product mix catering to the needs of customers spread over entire nation, we understand our business is closely related to a To make sure To ensure the diverse stakeholder group who can influence our the concerns are To review the stakeholders are addressed in timely actions taken to business directly or indirectly. integral part of firm’s manner through reinstate the faith in triple bottom line We have a vast number of forums in place, for our appropriate our stakeholders measures growth stakeholders, to communicate with us regularly. These channels help us to gain deeper insights into the expectations of our stakeholders have. Considering the vast expanse of the organization, we cater to a wide array of stakeholders and resolve issues, if any, with mutual concern. We have adopted a structured approach for promoting sustainable business practices while creating enduring value for all our stakeholders. Sustainability Report 2015-16 Living by Our Core Values 17 Stakeholder Engagement About IndianOil & Materiality Key Impacts, Risks & Opportunities IndianOil has endeavoured to institutionalise the existing relationships Shareholders through a formal process that includes : Employees/ Academia Contractors Advocacy/ Customer Identification Advisory groups of key stakeholders Government/ Financial Our Regulatory Institutions stakeholders Bodies Engagement with key Industry/Trade stakeholders Media Association Identification and prioritization NGOs Business Partner/ of concerns and Community Vendor needs Stakeholders Engagement: Addressing the IndianOil interacts with its stakeholders through various forums focussing on concerns and needs subjects pertinent to them and the organization as well. We maintain continuous in a consistent and relationship to understand the stakeholder’s opinions, perceptions and transparent manner expectations and hence, we were able to engage with them to derive a mileage on all sustainability related issues and minimise negative impacts on our businesses. Besides conducting customer survey/market feedback and regular meetings etc., we also monitor the brand’s social media profile, press relations and published content, and other aspects. Sustainability Report 2015-16 Living by Our Core Values 18 Stakeholder Engagement About IndianOil & Materiality Key Impacts, Risks & Opportunities Shareholders Employees Frequency Key Frequency Key Consultation Feedback Consultation Feedback of concerns/ of concerns/ mechanism assessment mechanism assessment consultation issues consultation issues Annual General Financial Communicating Shareholders/ Meetings, Meetings, Performance, Annual, Policies & Employee Annual, Investors Grievance Workshops, Regular Future Quarterly, Performance Satisfaction Quarterly, Committee (SIGC) Surveys, Communication strategies, Monthly, –Employee Survey Need -Investor Service Cell Performance through website, Shareholders weekly Satisfaction based -Dedicated Email Review Report etc grievance -Transparency Sustainability Report 2015-16 Living by Our Core Values 19 Stakeholder Engagement About IndianOil & Materiality Key Impacts, Risks & Opportunities Government/ Customers Regulatory Bodies Frequency Key Frequency Key Consultation Feedback Consultation Feedback of concerns/ of concerns/ mechanism assessment mechanism assessment consultation issues consultation issues Customer Surveys, Product Quality Customer Policy implementation As required Meetings, Annual, review, Apprising Minutes Customer Meetings, & Quantity, Satisfaction Industry Quarterly, the Gov. on Plans and of Training, Customer Suggestions Survey, forum Monthly, progress, Meeting, Education Programmes/ and Complaints Feedback weekly Communicating Action Meet/ Grievance redressel Industry’s challenges redressal forums Plan -Customer Satisfaction and issues Sustainability Report 2015-16 Living by Our Core Values 20 Stakeholder Engagement About IndianOil & Materiality Key Impacts, Risks & Opportunities Industry / Business Trade Partners Associations Frequency Key Frequency Key Consultation Feedback Consultation Feedback of concerns/ of concerns/ mechanism assessment mechanism assessment consultation issues consultation issues Meetings/ Policy Meetings Dealer/ Distributor/ Supply & Dedicated Seminar/ Need based advocating, -Reports etc KSK Conven¬tions, Annually, Distribution, email, Workshops Interfacing Transporters Meet, Quarterly, Quality & Quantity Meetings for policy Meeting with Need based Health & Safety etc. framing/ Contractors/ Vendors, Customer implementation Seminar/ Workshops satisfaction Sustainability Report 2015-16 Living by Our Core Values 21 Stakeholder Engagement About IndianOil & Materiality Key Impacts, Risks & Opportunities Community Media Frequency Key Frequency Key Consultation Feedback Consultation Feedback of concerns/ of concerns/ mechanism assessment mechanism assessment consultation issues consultation issues Meetings, Corporate Social Community Website, Need Sharing Feedback Public Daily Responsibility feedback, Events, information on based Hearing initiatives, Minutes of Conferences, to company's Capturing societal Meeting Media Cell stakeholders website issues Community Development Sustainability Report 2015-16 Living by Our Core Values 22 Stakeholder Engagement About IndianOil & Materiality Key Impacts, Risks & Opportunities Materiality Materiality assessment carried out in the year business is further assessed. The basis for material Based on the inputs, the materiality matrix was 2015-16 and our internal assessment of issues prioritization are the key concerns, needs prepared which provided a reasonable and stakeholder needs continue to drive sustainability and expectations of stakeholders identified balanced picture of the organisation’s Triple initiatives at IndianOil. The management and a through past as well as on-going engagement. Bottom Line impacts and its performance. robust in-house reporting system provide Validation However, in this report, all critical issues, which are mandatory assurance over the materiality of the of concern to stakeholders and Company are information and data which is reproduced in this We conducted an in-depth stakeholder mapping considered. The critical material issues together report from our database maintained at respective exercise and identified important key external with our action plan are described under locations. Our materiality analysis is based upon stakeholders. Subsequently, Cross sections of respective topics as Disclosure on Management the following three tier structured approach:internal stakeholders were surveyed through Approach. personal interviews and an online questionnaire to Identification of Material Aspects determine the issues material to IndianOil. IndianOil assessed its relevance in terms of the boundary of the impacts for each GRI-G4 defined aspect. Additionally, IndianOil also cognised for business sector specific topics based on GRI Sustainability Topics for Sectors. The vast range of internal and external data, including analyst reports, media articles and stakeholder feedback was evaluated and the most relevant issues were identified. The result was a list of material aspects considering their significance to the business and a matrix of aspects identified to be material for the key stakeholders. Prioritization of Issues In order to prioritise the material aspects identified, the degree of importance for each material aspect to its key stakeholders and the Sustainability Report 2015-16 Living by Our Core Values 23 Stakeholder Engagement About IndianOil & Materiality Key Impacts, Risks & Opportunities 1 Indirect Economic Impact 2 Security & safety of Information Systems 3 Regulatory & Legal Challenges High 4 5 12 13 21 4 5 Product/ Service Cost Competitiveness New Business Marketing Opportunity & Overseas Venture 6 Training & Development 7 Labor Rights & Compensation Important to Company 8 Recruitment & Succession Planning 9 Market Share 10 Collective Bargaining 11 Human Rights 22 23 12 Employee Satisfaction 13 Employee Engagement 14 Occupational Health & Safety 15 Impact on Communities 16 Waste management 17 Stakeholder Engagement 18 Corruption 1 6 7 19 Energy Conservation 14 15 24 2 3 8 9 10 20 21 Diversity & Equal Opportunity Product & Operational Efficiency 22 Product/ Service Quality & Safety 23 Customer Satisfaction 24 Climate Change 25 Carbon Emission 26 Water Management 16 17 11 25 26 Economic Low 18 19 20 Environment Social (Labor Practices and Decent Work) Social (Human Rights) Low High Social (Society) Social(Product responsibility) Important to Stakeholders Sustainability Report 2015-16 Living by Our Core Values 24 Stakeholder Engagement About IndianOil & Materiality Key Impacts, Risks & Opportunities Materiality Table Linkages Material Issues Linked with Heading Aspect Boundary outside IndianOil Carbon Emission Sustainable Development InitiativesWater and Carbon Footprint, Our Suppliers, Distributors & Retailers Environmental PerformanceEmissions Human Right Corporate GovernanceHuman Rights Contractors Climate Change Sustainable Development Initiatives, Environmental Performance Communities where we operate Collective Bargaining EmployeesEmployee Engagement Not material Corruption Corporate GovernanceCorruption and Anti-Competitive Behavior Our Suppliers, Distributors & Retailers Customer Satisfaction Product ResponsibilityMarketing Communications Our Customers Diversity & Equal Opportunity Corporate GovernanceInclusiveness Not material Employee Engagement EmployeesEmployee Engagement Not material Employee Satisfaction Employees Not material Energy Conservation Environmental PerformanceEnergy Not material Impact on Communities Social Performance Communities where we operate Labor Rights & Compensation EmployeesEmployee Engagement, Contract Labour Not material Occupational Health & Safety Health & Safety Not material Product & Operational Efficiency Product Responsibility Not material Product/ Service Quality & Safety Health & Safety, Product Responsibility Our Suppliers, Distributors, Retailers & Transporters Recruitment & Succession Planning Employees – Talent Recruitment, Employees – Career Transition Not material Stakeholder Engagement Stakeholder Engagement & Materiality All Stakeholders Training & Development Employees – Training Not material Waste management Environmental Performance – Waste Not material Water Management Environmental Performance – Water Not material Product/ Service Cost Competitiveness Economic Performance Our Suppliers, Distributors, Retailers & Transporters Market Share Economic Performance Not material New Business Marketing Opportunity & Economic Performance Not material Overseas Venture Indirect Economic Impact Economic Performance Not material Security & safety of Information Systems Corporate Governance – E-initiatives Not material Regulatory & Legal Challenges Key Impacts, Risks & Opportunities Not material Sustainability Report 2015-16 Living by Our Core Values 25 Key Impacts, Risks & Opportunities Stakeholder Engagement & Materiality Corporate Governance Key Impacts, Risks & Opportunities Risk review & management Geopolitical Risks and exposure to foreign borrowings, sharp fluctuations in exchange rates will have a direct IndianOil recognises that risk is an integral Security concerns and political instability, impact on our financials. component of business and is committed to especially in the Middle East & North Africa region, managing it in a proactive and professional is a major risk to the company as the bulk of the Safety and Security of Assets and manner. Our Enterprise Risk Management involves crude oil is imported from this geographical area. People risk identification, assessment and categorisation Any disturbance in this region also affects the (based on risk appetite) and is reviewed through company’s overseas investments made there. The huge risk potential of the hazards in the risk owners regularly to optimise identified risks hydrocarbon industry calls for preventive actions in with appropriate mitigation strategies. Foreign Exchange Fluctuations our processes and work culture. Human behaviour Volatility in the global financial markets and is widely recognised as an important factor in both Some of the risks & concerns identified during the cause and prevention of accidents. Therefore, in year 2015-16 are as follows: consequently in exchange rate movement and capital flows also pose a risk to IndianOil. Given the addition to strict compliance with the existing Crude Oil Price Fluctuation country’s high dependence on import of crude oil safety systems and procedures, improvement in IndianOil is required to hold adequate crude oil inventory at any given time in refinery storage, crude stock in transit through pipelines feeding inland refineries and in tankers on high seas from the supplying countries. Any sharp variation in international oil prices results in huge inventory gain/loss depending upon the direction of price movement. Moreover, fluctuations in international oil prices have implications on upstream investments as well. Sustainability Report 2015-16 Living by Our Core Values 26 Key Impacts, Risks & Opportunities Stakeholder Engagement & Materiality Corporate Governance safety culture and personal safety behaviour is to curtail incidents of pilferage, such as round-theassessment and mitigation procedures. As per the being addressed effectively for sustenance of a safe clock monitoring, physical patrolling of the right-of‘Risk Management Policy’ of IndianOil, a ‘Risk working environment. Similarly, increased way, engagement with villagers, electronic Management Compliance Board’ is also sensitivity towards physical and cyber-security also surveillance and seeking the help of the local police established which reviews the various risks entails appropriate technological and human for continuous monitoring. associated with our businesses. The committee interventions. debates all risks and related issues threadbare and Policy & Regulatory Risks devises action plans to mitigate those risks. These Pipeline Pilferage Changes in policy, regulations, tax rates, delay in are, then, appraised to the Executive Committee, project clearances poses profit and investment which consists of Chairman and functional Pipeline pilferage poses a major risk to the smooth risks to IndianOil. Directors of the Board. & safe management of the supply chain. It not only leads to disruptions in crude oil and product We have laid down the Enterprise Risk supplies but puts lives and property at risk. Management Policy and Procedures thereof for IndianOil is taking a number of pro-active measures periodical information to the Board about the risk Frequency of To whom are results Geographical areas How far into the future Working of the committee monitoring reported? considered are risks considered? Six-monthly Board or individual/ All over India and 3 years or more Risk Management committee comprising of senior or sub-set of the Board or the countries from executives monitors, accesses and discusses both, internal committee appointed which crude oil is & external risks associated with business, diversification, quarterly by the Board sourced pricing, climate change etc. and categorizes them as ‘A’ and ‘B’ category risks. ‘A’ category risks are material to the organisation and need immediate action plan. Sustainability Report 2015-16 Living by Our Core Values 27 Corporate Governance Key Impacts, Risks & Opportunities Sustainable Development Initiatives Corporate Governance At IndianOil, we believe in conducting our business at all levels and in order to maximize the value for structural set-up have been the key to effective with utmost accountability, transparency and every stakeholder, we have been striving to build implementation of corporate governance integrity, ensuring fairness for all the stakeholders. an environment of trust and confidence around us. initiatives. Policies are considered as key for good To ensure an ethical and efficient business conduct A well-defined policy framework and strong corporate governance practices. Code of Conduct for Directors Our Governance Structure: CORPORATE GOVERNANCE and Senior Management Personnel Code of Conduct for prevention of insider trading Enterprise Risk Management Policy Independent Government Chairman Nominee Director Director Integrity Pact to enhance transparency in business Whistle-Blower Policy Conduct, Discipline and Appeal Rules for employees Board Corporate Social Responsibility/ Committee Sustainable Development Human resources initiatives Policy on Related Party Transactions and Policy for Director Director Director Director Director Director determining Material Subsidiaries Refineries Marketing Pipelines P&BD Finance HR Sustainability Report 2015-16 Living by Our Core Values 28 Corporate Governance Key Impacts, Risks & Opportunities Sustainable Development Initiatives The Board of Directors IndianOil, being a Central Public Sector Enterprise, Act 2013, as well as the guidelines on Corporate requisite disclosures pertaining to any is under the administrative control of the Ministry Governance issued by the Department of Public directorial/committee positions held by them in of Petroleum & Natural Gas, Government of India. Enterprises (DPE). All the Directors have made the other companies in the Annual report. The Board of Directors is the highest governing body in the organization and the Board represents an optimum combination of whole-time Directors and part-time Directors. The Directors are nominated by the government and represents the Board. The part-time Directors are Independent and Government Nominated Directors and are imminent personalities with proven records in various fields including energy, law, marketing, academics, administration, finance etc. As on 31.03.2016, the Board had strength of 12 members, which includes seven whole-time Directors (Including Chairman) and five part-time Directors. The part-time Directors constitutes of three Independent Directors and two Government Nominee Directors. IndianOil has not been able to comply with the requirement of possessing 50% Independent Directors on its Board since nominated representatives of the Ministry of PNG are yet to be provided for our Board. The matter is being pursued with the Government of India to induct Standing from Left to Right: Shri Subroto Bagchi, Independent Director; Shri Verghese Cherian, Director (Human Resources); Shri Anish Aggarwal, Director (Pipelines); Shri B.S. Canth, Director (Marketing); Shri A. K. Sharma, Director (Finance); the requisite number of Independent Directors as Shri D. Sen, Director (Planning & Business Development); and Shri Sanjay Kapoor, Independent Director. required under the provisions of the Companies Sitting from Left to Right: Shri Ashutosh Jindal, Government Nominee Director; Shri A.P. Sawhney, Government Nominee Director; Shri B. Ashok, Chairman; Shri Parindu Bhagat, Independent Director; and Shri Sanjiv Singh, Director (Refineries). Sustainability Report 2015-16 Living by Our Core Values 29 Corporate Governance Key Impacts, Risks & Opportunities Sustainable Development Initiatives At the beginning of each financial year, IndianOil signs a Memorandum of understanding with the Government of India which monitors our performance targets. MoU targets are based around the long-term targets of the organization as well as critical performances under economic, social and environment categories. Sustainability Report 2015-16 Living by Our Core Values 30 Corporate Governance Key Impacts, Risks & Opportunities Sustainable Development Initiatives Our Board Committees Audit Committee De-leasing of Immovable Properties Committee o To examine, decide and deal with all issues relating to 8 o To consider Deleasing of Company leased flats/ Ethics in the Corporation accommodation / immoveable properties Nomination and Remuneration Committee Spot LNG Purchase Committee o To approve certain perquisites and Performance Related o To approve LNG price formula / gas pricing / SPA terms, Pay (PRP) as per the DPE guidelines. execution of Master Sales & Purchase Agreement (MSPA), o To consider and approve promotions to Grade ‘I’ (Executive deviation to standard MSPA, bids for purchase of LNG. Director) Shareholders Relationship Committee LNG Sourcing Committee o To examine and redress the grievances of shareholders, o To review and recommend the terms and conditions of LNG investors and to approve issuance of share certificates Sales & Purchase Agreement Project Evaluation Committee Dispute Settlement Committee o To appraise projects costing Rs.250 crores and above o To examine the settlement proposals with financial implication of more than Rs. 25 crore and provide recommendation Corporate Social Responsibility and Sustainable Development Committee Contracts Committee o To recommend, monitor and administer Sustainability and o To approve contracts beyond certain limits as provided in CSR activities the DoA of the Corporation Health, Safety and Environment Committee Planning & Projects Committee o To review compliance of safety systems, procedures, rules o To consider and approve all Project Proposals above & regulations on safety, occupational health and Rs. 100 crore and upto Rs.250 crore environment protection Risk Management Committee Marketing Strategies Committee o To review the Risk Management Process and to approve the o To evolve the strategies, policies, guidelines and take derivative transactions above USD 50 million on ‘mark to decisions on all matters relating to marketing activities market’ basis Sustainability Report 2015-16 Living by Our Core Values 31 Corporate Governance Key Impacts, Risks & Opportunities Sustainable Development Initiatives Board Meetings The Board of Directors hold meeting once every interest of our stakeholders are protected. Various 2015-16. The maximum gap between any two month to review the corporate strategies and committees are constituted by the Board to ensure consecutive Board meetings is 56 days, whereas oversee our management’s functions to ensure efficient and smooth flow of decision making the maximum gap between any two consecutive that the long-term objectives are met and the process. The Board held 10 such meetings during audit committee meetings is 100 days. Sustainability Report 2015-16 Living by Our Core Values 32 Corporate Governance Key Impacts, Risks & Opportunities Sustainable Development Initiatives Remuneration of Directors all employees which gives them the authority to policies. Our vigilance department carries out report any activity which violates the laws, rules, various preventive activities viz., awareness Being a Central Public Sector Enterprise, the regulations or code of conduct by an employee to creation through training/ workshop on the nomination and fixation of remuneration of the Chairman of the Audit Committee or the Central Vigilance Commission (CVC) Directors is decided by the Government of India. competent authority. The audit committee rules/guidelines, ensuring quality and quantity of However, the perquisites for the Directors and maintains complete anonymity and confidentiality products in transit as well as sales points across the performance related pay are approved by the of any such reporting to avoid any discrimination at country, studies to bring out irregularities/ remuneration committee, which are within the workplace, whatsoever. inconsistencies, bringing transparency and powers of the Board. The remuneration does not economy in awarding as well as execution of include any provision made on actuarial valuation The policy on Vigil Mechanism/Whistle-blower can be accessed on our corporate website at the link contracts. There is an inbuilt mechanism at of retirement benefit schemes or any provision IndianOil to check anti-competitive behaviors made during the year towards post retirement https://www.iocl.com/InvestorCentre/Whistle_ Blower_policy.pdf which comply with all government policies. We benefits as the same are not ascertainable have implemented Grievance Redressal individually for Directors. During the year under Corruption and Anti-Competitive Mechanism and Whistle Blower’s policy which review, no Stock Options were issued to Wholeensured availability of adequate mechanism to time Functional Directors. As per the directives Behavior encourage disclosures of any misconduct. These issued by the Government of India, the terms of The “Conduct, Disciplines and Appeal Rules (the policies cover all the employees of the organization appointment of the Whole-time Functional CDA Rules),” which govern the conduct of all as well as the business partners. Directors provide for a 3 month notice or salary in officers of the company have outlined the lieu of release from service. company’s approach to assess and ascertain fraud All our units are reviewed for any corruption or risks and reporting, investigating and responding to related risks. During the year no incidents of A ratio of 10.42:1 was observed as the ratio of the corruption were reported. 79 vigilance awareness total annual compensation of the organization’s suspected incidents of corruption. We have adequate measures in place to address issues programs were conducted during the year to highest paid individual to the median annual total promote transparency and efficiency in the compensation. relating to ethics, bribery and corruption in the context of appropriate policy guidelines issued by working and the vigilance programs were attended Whistle Blower Policy the Government from time to time. Our employees by about 2,200 employees. Two cases were filed are mandated to comply with anti-corruption against the company regarding anti-competitive Indian Oil has a whistle blower policy accessible to behavior. One Case is pending before Competition Sustainability Report 2015-16 Living by Our Core Values 33 Corporate Governance Key Impacts, Risks & Opportunities Sustainable Development Initiatives Commission of India (CCI) wherein complainant Public Procurement Policy For Micro, IndianOil, a founder and permanent member of has alleged cartelization by Oil Marketing UNGC, extends support in implementing the ten Small & Medium Enterprises (MSME) Companies, for collusive bidding against in a tender guiding principles in United Nations’ agenda on for ATF supplies. The Delhi High Court has stayed As per the Public Procurement Policy of the Govt. human rights, labour standards, environment and the proceedings before CCI. In another case, a of India for procurement from Micro, Small and anticorruption. party has alleged non-competitive price due to Medium Enterprises (MSME), various divisions of IndianOil also actively participates with various cartelization by Sugar Manufacturers & joint IndianOil have taken necessary steps to implement committees of Government of India and tendering by OMCs for ethanol. The party had the policy. Endeavors are made to procure items other organizations for advancement or appealed before Competition Appellate Tribunal specified for procurement from MSMEs. Necessary improvement of public good by contributing to (COMPAT) CCI's interim order and also filed provision has been made in all the tenders stating Economic Reforms, Sustainable Business application for interim relief of stay of the tender the eligibility of MSMEs to participate in the tender. Principles, Energy Security, Inclusive Development process. The COMPAT dismissed both Appeal and The MSMEs and NSICs are exempted from Policies, etc. Application for stay. The party has now filed Civil payment of tender fees / earnest money deposit. Appeal before the Supreme Court against As against the target of procurement of 20% from Human Rights COMPAT's order. The matter is pending in the MSMEs, the procurement from MSMEs during the In pursuance to our commitment to meet the Supreme Court. year stood at 45.50%. societal needs and safeguard human rights, we External Commitments And Public have Zero Tolerance towards any kind of discrimination, whatsoever, for employment, Policy Participation growth, remuneration or development on the In association with various national and grounds of caste, colour, gender, religion or regioninternational professional bodies, IOC actively across all our establishments. We have a structured participates and firms up opinions on Industry grievance handling mechanism accessible to all our related issues which have significant impact on employees. As per the terms and conditions laid public policy. References of different ministries of down in the General Conditions of Contract (GCC), the government are attended to with in-depth all our vendors and suppliers have to comply with analysis. the human rights aspects including separate Sustainability Report 2015-16 Living by Our Core Values 34 Corporate Governance Key Impacts, Risks & Opportunities Sustainable Development Initiatives toilets, washing places for men and women, As per the conditions of the General Conditions of limit of 18 years for permanent and contract labour compulsory canteen facilities and medical services Contract (GCC)the guidelines for any contract is maintained. No complaints, whatsoever, were for all employees. We have carried out regular drawn with IndianOil, a written declaration has to reported during the year pertaining to child labour. monitoring and reviews at all the locations to be submitted by the bidder that no child labour is No political contributions – financial or in-kind minimise and reduce human rights violations. engaged at his/her facilities. IndianOil does not were made directly or indirectly to any recipient or There were no incidents of human rights violations encourage business activity with industries beneficiary by IndianOil. reported during the year. No incidents involving deploying child labour. No child labour is employed rights of indigenous people and discriminated at any of our establishments and a minimum age practices or significant disputes involving local communities and indigenous people were Sl. Category (2015-16) No. of complaints No. of complaints reported during the year 2015-16. We have a stringent policy on prevention of sexual No. filed pending harassment at the workplace which is implemented across all our installations. Reported cases of sexual harassment are inquired into by a 1 Child labor/forced labor/ Nil Nil Complaint Committee and disciplinary action, as involuntary labor per Conduct, Discipline and Appeal Rules, against the delinquent employees is taken. 2 Sexual harassment 2 4 IndianOil does not support any form of forced or 3 Discriminatory Nil Nil compulsory labour. We ensure that the salary paid for employees of all categories fulfils the norms of employment minimum wages act prescribed by the Government of India. As per the provisions of the Minimum wages Act 1971, the minimum wages payable to employees/ contractors are revised at regular intervals. No instances of forced, compulsory or bonded labour were reported during the year. Sustainability Report 2015-16 Living by Our Core Values 35 Corporate Governance Key Impacts, Risks & Opportunities Sustainable Development Initiatives Sustainable Sourcing OBC/ PWD (Persons with Disabilities)/ ExIntegrity and Accountability servicemen to promote inclusive growth. Oil & Gas sector is particularly vulnerable to sectoral IndianOil believes in total transparency, integrity Grievance/ Complaint Registers are also maintained threats like depletion of resources and geo-political and accountability in its functioning. We value our at Division/ Region/ Unit levels for registering uncertainties. IndianOil has long and short term business relationships with all the domestic & grievances. Efforts are made to promptly dispose contracts in place for its crude oil procurement and international contractors and suppliers of goods & off representations / grievances received from services, and are dedicated to deal with them in a diversified its global fuel sourcing centers. Further, OBC/ SC/ ST employees. Facilities like Braille the company has strengthened its position as an fair and transparent manner by maintaining the machine, ramp, etc. are being provided across our highest ethical standards in all our business upstream player by building a sizeable portfolio of installations, offices for PWDs. transactions with them. Being committed to uphold oil & gas assets, with participating interest in 8 For engagement of disadvantaged, vulnerable and the trust and fair practices, IndianOil has signed a domestic and 7 international blocks. marginalized external stakeholders, various MoU with Transparency International India (TII) in As pipeline transportation is the most sustainable initiatives viz. allotment of dealership/ 2008 for implementing Integrity Pact (IP) in all its mode of transportation for petroleum products, distributorship, petty contracts, CSR initiatives, etc. major procurement and work contract activities. IndianOil has been expanding the pipeline network are undertaken. Under CSR, 22.8 lakhs new LPG There is an enhanced emphasis on ensuring relentlessly. As on 31.3.2016 the total length of transparency, probity, equity and competitiveness connections were released to BPL families during pipelines stands at about 11,750 KMs. in procurement processes. The Integrity pact has 2015-16 taking the total beneficiaries under the not only strengthened the trust and support of the The Company purchases LNG, crude oil, gas and scheme to 32.4 lakhs BPL families cumulatively. Central Vigilance Commission but has also other raw material under long term as well as short IndianOil also pioneered the toughened up the existing systems. Four term purchase contract from national and global implementation of Independent External Monitors have been sources. Also, e-Tendering, e-Procurement and “smokeless village” nominated by TII in consultation with the Central e-Payment procedures are followed relentlessly as programme by Vigilance Commission (CVC) to monitor all tenders a mode for sustainable sourcing. providing more than of value INR 10 Crore and above, across IndianOil. 1,60,000 new LPG Inclusiveness During the year 10 meetings of IEM’s (Independent connections and External Monitors) were conducted. Based on the IndianOil scrupulously follows the presidential declared over 3,400 above threshold value, 288 tenders floated by the directives and guidelines issued by Government of villages as smokeless Corporation came under the purview of IP during st India regarding reservation in services for SC/ ST/ villages as on 31 March 2016. Sustainability Report 2015-16 Living by Our Core Values 36 Corporate Governance Key Impacts, Risks & Opportunities Sustainable Development Initiatives the year 2015-16 against which 2 complaints were provisions of Corporate Law, guidelines and rules received which were referred to the IEMs and etc. were fully complied with. The secretarial Audit deliberated. A total of 4,62,348 customer report is published as a part of the Annual Report complaints were received and 462239 (99.97%) after getting duly verified by Company Secretary. complaints were resolved. 7,030 complaints were To ensure implementation of government received related to services, tenders and through directives, liaison officers are appointed across public grievance redressal system and 7,362 (100%) various locations. were resolved which includes grievances pending at 911 investor complaints were received from the beginning of the year. SEBI, MCA and Stock Exchanges which were Information on various issues is shared under the subsequently solved. ‘Right To Information’ to all stakeholders. Additionally, other initiatives like bill watch system, standardisation of schedule of rates, file tracking system etc. have also been implemented. Compliance IndianOil carries out Secretarial Audit of the records and documents every year as a good Corporate Governance practice. All the applicable Sustainability Report 2015-16 Living by Our Core Values 37 Corporate Governance Key Impacts, Risks & Opportunities Sustainable Development Initiatives E-initiatives To keep up with the pace of the changing scenario processing time as well as reduce the paper work in the technologically advanced world, the and associated costs involved. A list of such Information Systems department has come out initiatives are listed as under: with various web-based portals to decrease the VTS–Vehicle eCommunication Employee Performance e-Suggestion Tracking System Management System Scheme e-ledger e-CFS SMS Employee Self Xtrainfo Indenting File Tracking Dealer/ Distributor Indane Transparency Service Portal System (e-Ledger) Annual Returns (DAR) Protal E-Governance Initiatives eemPower E-360 E-Sahyog E-Suvidha Tendering Payment Privahak corporate ePROMIS xSparsh E-Audit e-security Procurement Sustainability Report 2015-16 Living by Our Core Values 38 Corporate Governance Key Impacts, Risks & Opportunities Sustainable Development Initiatives ESSHR – A&W services: A portal has been formed where all Employee Self Seva E-PMS administration work related formats have been attached to enable employees Employee Performance and the names of officers responsible to take actions make various claims Management System have been mentioned. and track their to enable employees processing status E-Audit define their KRAs and KPIs Used by the Audit File Tracking System: A system where one can route and team to speed up track the files going for approvals outside respective the process of audit departments. E-360 E-Drive -A portal for employees An intranet based facility where in the manager grade upto 1 GB of data can be and above; where they transferred via uploading the are assessed by their documents at one system and Hello IOCian: A comprehensive directory of all the peers, subordinates ESahyog sharing the link to download the same at another employees, both executives and non-executives, has and seniors A centralized portal for the location. been built to ease out the process of finding the contact CSR department across details and designation of any employee across the the organization to update organization. and share inforamtion E-Suvidha pertaining to various E-Tender initiatives. A portal where all the All application not tenders floated across the covered under ESS organization are posted. This have been attached has resulted in saving of time, PF Management System: A portal to help employees get here paper as well as costs involved an insight into their existing PF balance and apply for in floating a physical refundable and non-refundable loans against PF. tender. Sustainability Report 2015-16 Living by Our Core Values 39 Corporate Governance Key Impacts, Risks & Opportunities Sustainable Development Initiatives Moving with Time: Mobiles App Fuel@IOC: The target audience of this mobile application are the end customers who purchase In the technologically advanced age of today, our petrol and diesel from Indian Oil’s retail outlets. Information Systems team has been working Following are the features of this application: relentlessly to make things easier for the employees and customers, alike. A number of Retail Outlet locator mobile applications have been devised for use by based on the user's our vendors and dealers like x-sparsh, fuel@IOC geographical position and mPower. Retail Outlet search by services. Easy availability of the customers' fuel transactions Easy lodging of the feedback and rating of retail outlets Safety tips, Lube and air pressure reckoner Loyalty program integration Tracking of the grievances filed by the user. Sustainability Report 2015-16 Living by Our Core Values 40 Corporate Governance Key Impacts, Risks & Opportunities Sustainable Development Initiatives Parivahak: The target audience of this mobile myESS: The target audience of this mobile mPower: The target audience of this mobile application are all the Transporters of Indian Oil. application are our internal employees. This application is our mobile workforce. Following are Following are the features of this application: application allows the mobile workforce of Indian the features of this application: Oil to access employee data on the go. Following a) Customer Payments a) Real time payment information of the data is made available in the mobile application: transporter’s bills. b) Customer balances a) Payslip b) Real time position of the transporter’s truck. c) Pending Orders b) Holiday Listing c) Details of the transporter’s fleet of trucks (No d) Sales Analytics c) Employee Search of trucks and the details of each truck) d) Off cycle payment details e) Know your pending claims f) Leave Balance Sustainability Report 2015-16 Living by Our Core Values 41 Corporate Governance Key Impacts, Risks & Opportunities Sustainable Development Initiatives xSparsh: The target audience of this mobile PROMIS: The target audience of this application Digital/e-Governance initiative to go application are the various channel partners of are Indian Oil’s BD channel partners. It caters to all Indian Oil. Following are the features of this the types of customers i.e. PTA/DC, CS and DCAs. paperless application: Following are the features of this application: In a pioneering initiative, the Board members a) Customer balance a) Balance Enquiry of IndianOil held their first paperless Board b) Indent / Order Management b) Sales enquiries meeting which was attended by all the c) Payment Details c) Stock inventory listing functional directors, Government nominee d) Sales d) Payment details Directors and independent Directors. This e) Consumption statistics initiative focuses on two core values: l Care, i.e., caring for the environment l Innovation, i.e., bringing in the latest technology to ensure ease of operations and adding pace to the day-to-day activities of the Corporation For the paperless Board meeting, the agenda items were shared through the digital platform using exclusive software. All the accompanying presentations were also uploaded on i-pads for deliberations by the Board members. The initiative also ensures security and confidentiality of the agenda items, the discussions upon them and the outcome. Sustainability Report 2015-16 Living by Our Core Values 42 Corporate Governance Key Impacts, Risks & Opportunities Sustainable Development Initiatives Corporate E-Security The whole setup has been deployed in high availability and redundant mode. All the devices in our Data & IndianOil has adopted and implemented a defenseCommunications Centre are put in High Availability in-depth cyber security architecture to face today’s mode to ensure 99.9% availability. A Security Operation era of ever growing cyber threats to critical Centre (SOC) is maintained at Corporate Data Centre government infrastructure. We own one of the which is manned 24x7 by highly skilled IT security largest data networks in India and our management professionals. The processes at SOC haven been is deeply committed to secure the same from any designed with full compliance to industry best practices kind of cyber threats. Regulatory requirements and in order to rapidly adapt to the evolving threats. guidelines for securing public sector undertaking’s critical IT infrastructure for business critical For the year 2015-16, Corporate E-security has applications as issued by Government from time to redesigned its infrastructure & security architecture time are followed and complied by IndianOil. including security operations center (SOC). Complete revamping of old architecture were done which We have already obtained ISO 27001 certification for includes implementation of best of breed next our Corporate Data Centre, Near Recovery Site at generation firewall, IPS, Link controller etc. Remote Gurgaon and Remote Business Continuity Service Business continuity site has also been upgraded Centre at Bengaluru from Standardization Testing similar to corporate data center. Web Application and Quality Certification Directorate, DeitY, security audit of organization’s public facing sites Government of India. The Near Recovery Site and hosted by Corporate Office conducted to ensure the Remote Business Continuity Service Centre are also Management Plan for the divisions. E-Security team compliance as per Govt. guidelines. certified for Business Continuity (BS 25999) and IT has also ensured standardization of Endpoint Service Management (ISO 20000). A Corporate IT In the process of building in-house capability of ISO Security policy across organization and conducted Policy and IT Security policy are in place which cover 27001, 13 employees have attended the ISO 27001 knowledge sharing session for the same. majority of the policies mentioned in the National lead auditor training & have been certified as lead A secure access to various applications has been Cyber Security Policy (NCSP) 2013. The Corporate IT auditors. Various training sessions have also been provided to overseas employees on deputation Policy is under revision for inclusion of latest conducted for IndianOil employees for cyber security through SSL-VPN. The team has also coordinated and technologies & cyber security requirements. awareness. provided all levels of support for various kinds of IT IndianOil has implemented a robust, state-of-the-art In pursuit of IT Act and NCSP-2013, E-Security team Security issues to maintain secure cyber ecosystem network security architecture at its corporate data has conducted many sessions for implementation on across the organization. center which comprise of a unique mix of technologies. ISO 27001, Business Continuity Plan and Crisis Sustainability Report 2015-16 Living by Our Core Values 43 Corporate Governance Key Impacts, Risks & Opportunities Sustainable Development Initiatives E-PMS RTI Global Reporting In order to increase transparency and clarity in the A robust feedback Initiative (GRI) Key Result Areas (KRAs) as well as Key Performance mechanism is in place, Indices (KPIs), an online system of Employee whereby various Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) is an international Pe r fo r m a n c e M a n a ge m e nt Syste m wa s stakeholders and independent organization that has outlined introduced across the organization and covers all guidelines to help businesses, governments and shareholders can file an employees. At the beginning of every year, other organizations understand and communicate RTI and gather employees are asked to fill in the details pertaining the impact of business on critical issues such as information, which might climate change, human rights, and corruption to the respective KPIs on a web-based portal and not be otherwise among several others related to sustainability. select parameters on which their individual available through performance would be mapped at the end of the IndianOil has been publishing its Sustainability sources like the Annual Report and the corporate year. Each KPI is given a specific weightage and the Report since last 10 years. The first report was website. Important information including names, year-end performance of the employee is published in the year 2005-06. Since 2007-08, designations and addresses of the Chief Public IndianOil has been preparing its Sustainability calculated against the degree of achievement of Information Officers and Assistant Public Report in accordance with the guidelines laid down the target. Performance Related Pay, individual Information Officers and Appellate Authority are by the Global Reporting Initiatives. It has graduated ratings and departmental promotions are all linked hosted on the website to allow an access to the along with the GRI guidelines from its first version, to the e-pms score. Along with the employees, all public. Apart from this, an RTI manual has also G-1 to the most recent being GRI G4 guidelines. A whole-time functional Directors, who receive their been uploaded on the website for providing special effort has also been made to comply with Performance Related guidelines to those who want to file an RTI. All The the Oil & Gas Sector Specific guidelines and all Pay as regular same can be accessed from the following link: disclosures are being made in the Annual e m p l o ye e s o f t h e https://w w w.iocl.com/Talktous/right-toSustainability Report. Since 2012-13, IndianOil has company, are also involved itself in printing an abridged version of the information.aspx covered under this Sustainability Report in the form of a 20-page scheme. Sustainability Highlights. This initiative has not only helped us in reducing the cost of paper and time involved but has also helped in bring down the carbon footprint involved in the same. Sustainability Report 2015-16 Living by Our Core Values 44 Corporate Governance Key Impacts, Risks & Opportunities Sustainable Development Initiatives Vigilance working of the organization, various initiatives like e-tendering, e-collections, e-payments, file The objective of vigilance is to ensure maintenance tracking system, etc. have been implemented. A of the highest level of integrity throughout the Chief Vigilance Officer (CVO) is also appointed by organization. To achieve this objective, the the government of India to look into the various Vigilance group carries out preventive and punitive cases of vigilance across the organization. actions, with greater emphasis on the preventive aspects. During the year, 79 vigilance awareness programmes were conducted, which were attended by about 2,200 employees. In order to promote transparency and efficiency in the YOUR VIGILANCE YOUR DETERMINATION YOUR RESPONSIBILITY WILL BRING US SECURITY Sustainability Report 2015-16 Living by Our Core Values 45 Sustainable Development Initiatives Corporate Governance Economic Performance Sustainable Development Initiatives In an effort to align our initiatives towards achieving Sustainable Development, IndianOil formed the Renewable Energy and Sustainable Development (RE&SD) Group under Planning and Business Development (P&BD) at the corporate level in 2009-10. Under the over-arching umbrella of our CSR and Sustainability and emphasizing on commitment towards sustainability, IndianOil has implemented organizational policies/guidelines for the following areas: These policies are expected to drive sustainability related initiatives across our widespread locations. Sustainability Report 2015-16 Living by Our Core Values 46 Sustainable Development Initiatives Corporate Governance Economic Performance IndianOil’s Sustainability & CSR Policy IndianOil has merged its Sustainability Policy with the dated 21.10.2014, which proposed single policy for key requirements as per Companies Act 2013, CSR Policy in line with DPE’s “Guidelines on Corporate ‘CSR and Sustainability’. Our new Sustainability & CSR Companies (CSR Policy) Rules 2014, Schedule-VII and Social Responsibility and Sustainability for CPSEs” Policy delineates the vision, mission, thrust areas and DPE’s guidelines on CSR & Sustainability Vision: IndianOil's Sustainability & CSR vision is to operate its activities in providing energy solutions to its customers in a manner that is efficient, safe & ethical, which minimises negative impact on environment and enhances the quality of life of the community, towards sustaining a holistic business Mission: Thrust Areas Safe andhealthy Efficiency Basic livelihood Safe drinking water environment in and in operations and needs & societal and protection of around the processes. empowerment. water resources. workplaces. Meet stakeholders’ aspirations for value creation and grow along with the society. Education and Empowerment Tourist friendly Healthcare employment-enhancing of women and socially/ facilities at monuments and vocational skills. economically backward of national Ensure a safe & healthy working sanitation. groups, etc. importance. environment. Incorporate environmental and social Rain water Reduce/reuse/ considerations in business decisions. Limit emission recycle resources/waste & Clean energy harvesting (at co. of Greenhouse dispose waste streams options. owned premises, in environmentally Gases. Earn stakeholders’ goodwill and build a retail outlets). safe manner. reputation as a responsible corporate citizen. Conduct business with ethics and transparency Promotion of responsible business practices: & follow responsible business practices. Conduct business with transparency, integrity and accountability. Sustainability Report 2015-16 Living by Our Core Values 47 Sustainable Development Initiatives Corporate Governance Economic Performance Renewable Energy The grid-connected and off-grid renewable power plants of the company has generated around IndianOil has continued to strengthen its business position on alternate energy 133 million units during the year 2015-16 which is sources with greater focus renewable energy. We aim to increase our Renewable about 3 per cent of the total electricity consumption of Energy share through Grid connected Renewable Energy, off-grid solar projects IndianOil refineries. and Solarization of Retail Outlets. Grid connected Off-grid solar projects Solarization of Renewable Energy Retail Outlets Sustainability Report 2015-16 Living by Our Core Values 48 Sustainable Development Initiatives Corporate Governance Economic Performance Grid connected renewable power IndianOil aims to increase the installed capacity of grid connected renewable energy (wind and solar) by 260 MW over next five years. Till date, IndianOil has installed 80 MW of grid connected renewable energy projects, including 69.3 MW of wind power and 10 MW of solar power. Our total grid connected renewable energy generation for the current year is 132 GWh which helped in avoiding GHG emissions equivalent to 1,08,279 tCO2. Avoided CO2 equivalent in '000 tonnes Renewable Energy Generation in GWh Renewable Energy Installed Capacity (MW) 140 140 115 132 132 132 115 108 124 69.3 74.3 69.3 74.3 68 63 104 85 97 53.3 48.3 5 5 7 8 8 8 5 5 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16 Generation Grid Total Generation Grid Total Generation Grid Grid Connected Grid Connected Grid Connected RE Total connected Wind connected Solar connected RE RE Wind RE Solar installed capacity Sustainability Report 2015-16 Living by Our Core Values 49 Sustainable Development Initiatives Corporate Governance Economic Performance Off grid solar power IndianOil targets to set-up off-grid solar power systems on all the available rooftop and surplus lands areas across IndianOil installations. To this effect, a solar policy was adopted in 2015-16. Accordingly, we have installed 1.7 MW of off-grid solar plants as on 31st march 2016 which would be able to generate 1.7 million units and avoid GHG emissions equivalent to 1,394 tCO2 annually. Off-grid Solar Generation in MWh Off-grid Solar Installed capacity in MW Avoided CO2 equivalent Cumulative in tonnes (from 2012-13) 1440 1.7 1181 1 630 516 300 246 218 0.3 179 0.2 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16 Sustainability Report 2015-16 Living by Our Core Values 50 Sustainable Development Initiatives Corporate Governance Economic Performance Retail Outlet solarization Cumulative number of ROs solarised IndianOil has initiated solarization of its retail outlets in 2010-11. Retail Outlet solarization has helped 4167 reducing the dependability on grid power and diesel generators besides reducing overall energy cost. With continued focus, we have solarized around 4,200 retail outlets with a cumulative installed capacity of 15 MW as on 31st March 2016. 2664 1266 379 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16 Off-grid solar in retail outlets Cumulative installed capacity in MW 15.0 9.8 4.0 1.0 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16 Sustainability Report 2015-16 Living by Our Core Values 51 Sustainable Development Initiatives Corporate Governance Economic Performance Sustainability Conference The 4th National Seminar on Sustainable Change’ was held at IiPM, Gurgaon, on the within IndianOil. The conference deliberated Development: ‘Reinforcing India’s Sustainability 18th of March 2016. This year we organized an upon various sustainability issues within Commitments: Corporate Vision on Climate in-house seminar, inviting participants from IndianOil and across the world. Sustainability Report 2015-16 Living by Our Core Values 52 Sustainable Development Initiatives Corporate Governance Economic Performance Rainwater Harvesting Rainwater Harvesting, is identified as the most effective method of water conservation and IndianOil has adopted the Rainwater Harvesting policy aimed at implementing rainwater harvesting systems across the IndianOil locations. As on 31st March 2016, we have implemented nearly 500 Rainwater Harvesting systems covering a total catchment area of 950 Ha. It is estimated that we currently harvest rainwater, either in recharging groundwater or for reuse at locations, to the extent of around 3% of our annual water consumption. While roof area has been the most commonly tapped catchment area, collection and reuse of treated storm water and surface overflow from suitable area is also practiced. Total Water harvested in million m3 Number of RWH measures cumulative 2.95 503 439 2.707 370 316 2.56 2.484 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16 Sustainability Report 2015-16 Living by Our Core Values 53 Sustainable Development Initiatives Corporate Governance Economic Performance LED Implementation Carbon neutral events Waste management IndianOil has drafted and adopted LED policy at IIn an attempt to reduce our carbon footprints, we IndianOil has installed 17 organic waste converters organization level, as energy efficiency measure. strive to make all our major events/workshops/ / Bio-methanization plants at its various Efficient Lighting is one of the most effective ways seminars/conferences carbon neutral, in which we installations to convert wastes like kitchen waste to address the challenges of high energy demand and horticultural waste to manure and biogas. The are committed to offset the carbon-di-oxide and resultant GHG emissions. The major highlight biogas is used as fuel in kitchens and the slurry is generate from the events by planting trees in our of the policy is to: used as manure in gardens and tree belts. Further, campuses. Accordingly, we have planted around we have also recycled over 25,000 kg of paper • Replace all our existing lighting fixtures with 18,000 saplings and declared 70 carbon neutral waste against our target of 10,000. LED lighting events till 2015-16. While choosing sapling, we ensure native species to the region is chosen. Under Swatch Bharat Abhiyan, IndianOil is setting As on 31st march 2016, we have installed over up 10 de-centralized wastes to fuel plants of 5 46,000 LED lights at our installations. Cumulative number of carbon neutral events tonnes per day (TPD) capacity each in Varanasi, 70 Uttar Pradesh. 55 38 27 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16 Estimation of number of tree required to neutralize the emissions and plantations Estimation of emissions Identification of emissions sources Sustainability Report 2015-16 Living by Our Core Values 54 Sustainable Development Initiatives Corporate Governance Economic Performance Water and Carbon footprint Specific carbon footprint reduction We are committed to reduce IndianOil has achieved specific carbon footprint reduction of 7.2% till 2015-16. The major our specific carbon footprint 18% initiatives undertaken to reduce our organizational by 18% and carbon footprint are: specific water footprint 7.20% by 20% by 2020 (i) Energy conservation/efficiency measures (ii) Renewable energy projects implementation with 2012-13 as the base year (iii) Tree plantation IndianOil is carrying out carbon footprint exercise Achieved till 2015-16 Target by 2020 across the locations accounting 100% of scope 1 and scope 2 emissions. Under scope 3, we have Specific water footprint reduction only covered few pilot locations. 20% IndianOil has achieved 4.5% reduction of specific water footprint till 2015-16. At present, IndianOil is carrying out water footprinting every year across 4.50% all its installations. Achieved till 2015-16 Target by 2020 Sustainability Report 2015-16 Living by Our Core Values 55 Sustainable Development Initiatives Corporate Governance Economic Performance Business Responsibility Report (BRR) As per the guidelines laid Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) United Nations Global Compact down by SEBI in 2012, the top 100 companies listed on the BSE and NSE indices IndianOil is voluntarily participating in CDP’s (UNGC) according to their market capitalization, are climate change program every year since 2012 that required to include the Business Responsibility UNGC is the world’s largest corporate shows our commitment to reduce the carbon Report (BRR) as a part of the Annual Report. sustainability initiative that aims to align the emissions and strong environmental conscience. Certain listing conditions have been specified in strategies and operations of organizations across Highlighting our efforts on sustainability and the world with universal principles on human the guidelines in order to enhance the quality of climate change, IndianOil has improved on its rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption disclosures made by various companies. disclosure score to 94/100 points in 2014-15, as and guide them in taking steps which will help in Being a Government of India undertaking and one compared to 83/100 in 2013-14, in the Carbon achieving societal goals. We are also a signatory among the top 100 companies listed on the BSE Disclosure Leadership Index (CDLI). and member of the UN’s Global Compact since and NSE, IndianOil has been publishing its Business 2001, and adhere to all its principles. Special Responsibility Report as a part of its Annual report efforts are made to ensure a systematic every year, since 2012-13. The report is being CDP Score implementation of the UNGC principles and prepared in line with the suggested format for the 94 83 guidelines. BRR and all the mandatory disclosures are being 58 made as a part of the report. 53 2012-13 2013-14 2013-15 2015-16 Sustainability Report 2015-16 Living by Our Core Values 56 Economic Performance Sustainable Development Initiatives Environmental Performance Economic performance 2015-16 has been a landmark year for IndianOil in terms of operational and economic performance. But the year was marked by the commissioning of our 15-MMTPA grassroots refinery at Paradip, Odisha state-of-the-art Paradip refinery. With the commissioning of Paradip refinery, IndianOil’s total refining capacity has increased to 80.70 million tonnes per annum (including CPCL's refining capacities). 249-km Rajola-Chaksu section, 56 km Moda-Gauridad section and debottlenecking of the 46-km Chaksu-Manpuria section of Completed Projects IndianOil has achieved sales of 80.72 million tonnes of Salaya-Mathura pipeline project finished products, including POL, Gas, Petrochemicals, Explosives, and Exports in 2015-16 and has continued to lead the market in its core product categories. Our 105-km Paradip-Jatni section of Paradip-Raipur-Ranchi refineries clocked a record throughput of 56.69 million pipeline project tonnes with 102.2% capacity utilisation; and crosscountry network of pipelines registered the highest ever throughput of 79.80 million tonnes in the year 37-km Khana-Bolpur section of augmentation of 2015-16. Paradip-HaldiaBarauni pipeline project IndianOil, through a series of strategic decisions, has been consistently investing in several mega projects across the country. The projects are financed through Product storage depots at Jaipur, Jharsuguda, an optimum mix of internal accruals and borrowings Jatni and Paradip. from domestic as well as international markets. Some of the projects under different stages are as follows: Sustainability Report 2015-16 Living by Our Core Values 57 Economic Performance Sustainable Development Initiatives Environmental Performance Distillate yield improvement project Coke chamber replacement at Coker-A at Haldia Refinery in Barauni Refinery Demonstration unit of INDAdept Installation of INDMAX Unit along with at Guwahati Refinery associated facilities at Bongaigaon Refinery Future Paradip-Raipur-Ranchi product pipeline Projects Paradip-Hyderabad pipeline and associated tap-off points Augmentation of Paradip-Haldia-Durgapur Jaipur-Panipat Naphtha Pipeline, along with Ongoing Projects LPG pipeline & its extension up to Patna & Muzaffarpur augmentation of Koyali-Sanganer pipeline Ennore-Nagapattinam-Tuticorin-MaduraiEnnore-Trichy-Madurai LPG pipeline Bengaluru natural gas pipeline Branch pipeline from Barauni-Kanpur Quality upgradation Haldia-Barauni pipeline pipeline to Baitalpur and Motihari and projects for BS-VI petrol extension to Raxaul. and diesel at Gujarat, Panipat, Barauni and Koyali-Ahmednagar-Solapur pipeline LPG import terminal at Paradip and Kochi Haldia refineries. LPG bottling plants at Banka (Bihar), Ethylene glycol LPG terminals at Paradip and Kandla. project at Paradip Gorakhpur, Bathinda and Goindwal Sahib 5-MMTPA LNG import terminal project at Paradip-SomnathpurPolypropylene project at Paradip Refinery Haldia pipeline Ennore (through a Joint Venture Company) Styrene Recovery Unit at Panipat 98.3-MW Wind Power projects. Sustainability Report 2015-16 Living by Our Core Values 58 Economic Performance Sustainable Development Initiatives Environmental Performance Turnover in (INR crore) Profit after Tax (INR crore) 10399 457571 450756 7019 5005 5273 414919 399601 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16 Total Product Sold in 80.72 Million Tonnes Networth (INR Crore) 73949 65992 67970 61124 76.23 76.51 75.53 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16 Sustainability Report 2015-16 Living by Our Core Values 59 Economic Performance Sustainable Development Initiatives Environmental Performance Earning per share Return on Average capital employed (%) 18.37 2012-13 20.61 10.69% 11.45 2013-14 28.91 9.62 2014-15 21.72 2015-16 72.83 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16 Operational Performance Contribution to central & State Exchequer (INR Crore) 2012-13 54.65 75.5 76.24 132064 98326 2013-14 53.13 73.07 75.53 79819 86164 2014-15 53.59 75.68 76.51 2015-16 56.19 79.8 80.72 Total Product sales Pipeline Throughput Refinery Throughput (Million tonnes) (Million tonnes) (Million tonnes) 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16 Sustainability Report 2015-16 Living by Our Core Values 60 Economic Performance Sustainable Development Initiatives Environmental Performance Performance highlights -Refineries IndianOil’s refineries achieved the highest ever IndianOil continued its efforts to widen its crude oil crude oil throughput of 56.69 million tonnes in Distillate Yield (wt%) basket and tie-up new supply sources to de-risk 80.6 2015-16, with a capacity utilisation of 102.2% and supply. Eight new grades of crude oil were the best-ever combined distillate yield of 80.6 wt%. processed in its refineries for the first time during 78.8 the year. The company has over the years built up Focused efforts on energy conservation has 78 78.1 capabilities to process 174 grades of crude oil from enabled us to register the lowest Fuel & Loss (F&L), over 40 different sources across geographies. Specific Energy Consumption (in terms of MBN ) and Energy Intensity Index (EII), at 8.66%, 53.8 and 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16 101.2 respectively. During the year, the energy conservation measures implemented in refineries resulted in total savings of 47,480 SRFT valued at Fuel & loss % 9.1 about INR 90.60 crores. 9 8.8 8.66 Refinery Throughput million tonnes 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16 56.69 54.65 Specific energy consumption (MBN) 53.59 53.13 56.3 55.8 54.4 53.8 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16 Sustainability Report 2015-16 Living by Our Core Values 61 Economic Performance Sustainable Development Initiatives Environmental Performance Pipeline Marketing IndianOil has now expanded its pipeline network to • Gas pipeline achieved a highest throughput of IndianOil’s marketing division achieved its highest about 11,750 kms, transportating both crude oil 1367 MMSCM in 2015-16. ever sales volume in the year 2015-16 with the help and finished products. Our Pipeline Division has of 45,000 plus pan India customer touch points. • Pipeline division is executing 1175 km Ennore Some of the major achievements of the divisions achieved its highest ever throughput of 79.5 Thiruvallur Bengaluru Puducherry are highlighted below: MMTPA in the year 2015-16. The installed Nagapattinam -Madurai Tuticorin gas throughput capacity of pipelines stands at 85.49 • IndianOil sold 72.65 million tones of petroleum pipeline project MMTPA for crude oil and petroleum products and products in 2015-16, and continues to be the 9.5 MMSCMD for gas. Some of the achievements of Pipelines are the least emitting mode of transport market leader in core petroleum product the divisions are as follows: and as per pur internal estimates, we save close to categories, i.e., Petrol, Diesel and LPG 50% of emissions by adopting pipeline transport. • We commissioned 1,032 retail outlets Pipeline throughout Pipelines ttherefore, becomes our choice of fuel including 481 Kisan Seva Kendra outlets in rural 75.68 79.5 transport. areas during the year, raising the total number 2014-15 of retail outlets to 25,363. 2015-16 47.78 50 • 2,069 retail outlets were automated in 2015-16 taking the cumulative of number of automated 27.9 29.5 fuel stations to 9,400 • A total of 1,180 LPG distributorships were given in 2015-16, the highest ever for any financial Total Pipeline Crude oil Petroleum product year throughput throughput throughput • Increased the Indane customer strength to Pipeline throughout 79.82 9.91 crore by providing new domestic LPG million tonnes connections to a record 1.03 crore customer 75.17 75.68 during the year 73.07 • Pioneered in implementing government initiatives such as the ‘Give it up’ and the ‘Give back’ campaigns 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16 Sustainability Report 2015-16 Living by Our Core Values 62 Economic Performance Sustainable Development Initiatives Environmental Performance • Pioneered the smokeless village campaign, Exploration and Production declared 3,400 villages as smokeless villages in 2015-16 IndianOil actively engaged in exploration activities Domestic blocks and our portfolio consists of eight domestic • Operator in two onshore exploration blocks in • Launched the Aviation Fuel Stations in Mohali (including 2 coal-bed methane blocks) and seven the Cambay Basin with 100% participating and Rourkela adding up the number of cities in overseas assets under various phases as depicted interest and holds non-operating participating which it operates its stations to 100 cities below: interest ranging from 20% to 43.5% in the • Re-launched XtraPremium branded petrol in 2,600 fuel station which helped achieving sales remaining domestic blocks E&P assets volume of 205 TMT • Introduced servo lubricants in two more 1 countries taking the brand presence to 27 2 countries 3 1 3 3 Overseas assets Domestic assets Under Under Under Producing development Exploration Discovery Asset Working interest range Working interest 4% 50% 0% 20% 40% Participating interest Participating interest Minimum Maximum Sustainability Report 2015-16 Living by Our Core Values 63 Economic Performance Sustainable Development Initiatives Environmental Performance Gas Gas sold in million tonnes Being a cleaner fuel, Natural gas is gradually 1.94 City Gas distribution 1.93 increasing its share in the primary energy • IndianOil’s joint venture with Adani Gas Ltd. consumption in India, providing high growth opportunity in this segment for IndianOil. We have o Awarded Panipat, Daman, Ernakulam, taken various initiatives to seize the natural gas 1.83 Udhamsingh Nagar and Dharwad 1.81 business in India viz., building gas import terminals o Implemented Chandigarh & Allahabad. and pipelines, taking up piped natural gas • IndianOil’s joint venture with GAIL distribution in cities etc., One of the innovative initiative is 'LNG at the doorstep' which has greatly o Operational Agra & Lucknow. benefitted bulk users located away from gas 5 Infrastructure pipelines. • Authorized by the Petroleum and Natural IndianOil has sold 1.929 million tonnes of Natural City Gas Distribution Gas Regulatory Board (PNGRB) to develop Gas with an annual growth rate of 6.9% for the year Ennore-Thiruvallur-Bengaluru-Puducherry2015-16. Sale of over 19,000 tonnes of gas was 2 2 Nagapattinam-Madurai-Tuticorin gas pipeline achieved under ‘LNG at the Doorstep’ initiative. of 1175 km Gas sourcing • Equity acquired for 1.2 MMTPA on FOB basis in GAs GAs GAs operational implemented awarded Pacific North West LNG Project for a minimum of 20 years and gas delivery is expected by 2020 • Imported 9 LNG Cargoes at Dahej in 2015-16, the first by IndianOil Natural Gas Sustainability Report 2015-16 Living by Our Core Values 64 Economic Performance Sustainable Development Initiatives Environmental Performance Petrochemicals IndianOil has established itself as country's second • Being a major supplier of polymer products to largest player in petrochemicals. Stable supply leading multinationals, the division has 104 chain, high customer orientation, strong technical Original Equipment Manufacturer (OEM) and new application development capabilities are approvals with the addition of 15 OEM some of the hallmarks of the company’s approvals for the current year petrochemicals business. • An integrated PX/PTA (Paraxylene/Purified • IndianOil is now the second largest polymer Terephthalic Acid) plant, set up at Panipat, is supplier in the country. Further, the brand the single largest unit in India, with a capacity PROPEL has expanded its footprint to 71 of 5,53,000 MTPA producing various polyester countries. intermediates • During the year, IndianOil registered the highest ever sales of petrochemicals at 2.54 million tonnes Overseas Presence (Countries) 71 Petrochemicals sold in million tonnes 53 2.39 2.42 1.96 1.99 Propel Polymer 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16 Petrochemicals intermediaries Sustainability Report 2015-16 Living by Our Core Values 65 Environmental Performance Economic Performance Social Performance Environmental performance Material Quantity of material consumed in Lakhs MT Material 2015-16 2014-15 2013-14 2012-13 IndianOil imports significant proportion of raw materials for the core Crude Oil 580.08 535.86 530.95 530.61 operations and hence, the company has strategically designed its sourcing mechanism to ensure continuous inflow of raw materials. We put Natural Gas/RLNG 12.52 6.3 4.18 3.44 continuous efforts to improve upon utilization of recycled materials, Base Oil 4.41 4.18 4.25 4.01 minimize loss, improve operational efficiency and reduce material use intensity ensuring optimum use of raw materials across operations. Material consumption: Imported vs Indigenous 100% 96% 100% Material Actual production ('000MTs) 83% 82% 77% 69% 2015-16 2014-15 2013-14 2012-13 Petroleum 50,710 47,194 47,247 48,561 31% 17% 23% 18% LAB 100 105 103 118 4% 0% 0% PTA 514 534 388 567 Cride Oil Natural Base Oil Other Raw Stores & Packing Components Gas/RLNG Materials Spares Materials /Others PNCP 1,899 1,815 1,552 1,440 Imported-% of total consumption Indigenous-% of total consumption Total 53,223 49,648 49,290 50,686 % of total consumption Indigenous There were no significant fines, monetary or non-monetary, and no non100% 100% 100% 100% monetary sanctions for non-compliance with environmental laws and 86% 69% regulations. No grievances were filed regarding adverse environmental and societal impacts caused by our operations 17% 9% 10% Crude Oil Natural Gas/RLNG Base Oil 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16 Sustainability Report 2015-16 Living by Our Core Values 66 Environmental Performance Economic Performance Social Performance Refinery-wise performance Paradip refinery Paradip refinery is the nation’s most-modern unit, Merox, etc., in place for quality up-gradation The INDMAX (FCC) Unit is designed to produce 44% refinery , with a complexity factor of 12.2 based on of products. LPG, the highest yield from such plants. Nelson Index, and is configured to process highThe commissioning of INDMAX Unit at Paradip with Paradip refinery can produce BS VI compliant fuel. sulphur heavy crude oils with major secondary a capacity 4.17 MMTPA, marks a major milestone With an integrated petrochemical section, the processing units like Fluidised Catalytic Cracker, in the history of Indian refining. With this, IndianOil refinery is designed to cater to the growing Delayed Coking Unit, besides Diesel Hydrois now recognized globally as a technology licensor. demand of petrochemical products. treatment and Catalytic Reformer, Alkylation Sustainability Report 2015-16 Living by Our Core Values 67 Environmental Performance Economic Performance Social Performance Bongaigaon Refinery Bongaigaon refinery achieved highest ever • The prestigious ‘Safety Innovation Award • The Shrestha Surakasha Puraskar (2nd Level) annual crude throughput of 2453 TMT and 2015’in the Oil & Gas Category from Institution for the year 2015 in the manufacturing highest ever annual LPG production of 58 TMT in of Engineers (India) category by National Safety Council of India 2015-16. It is envisaged that INDMAX unit at Bongaigaon, coupled with INDMAX gasoline Hydrodesulphurization (IGHDS) unit and associated facilities will increase distillate yield of the refinery making it BS-VI capable. The refinery produced first batch of 624 KL special grade Navy Diesel and ATF in 2015-16. ENCON measures implement • Processing of hot feed in NHT • Use of Fuel gas in HRSG ignitor • Replacement of conventional shell & tube exchangers with Plate type • Installation of 200 KW Solar PV (Photo Voltaic) System Bio-diversity Bongaigaon refinery planted 1,195 trees in the year 2015-16 resulting in total plantation of 85,740 trees. Awards, Honours and certifications • ‘International Safety Award 2015’ with merit for demonstrating its commitment towards health, safety and well being of its workforce Sustainability Report 2015-16 Living by Our Core Values 68 Environmental Performance Economic Performance Social Performance Panipat refinery & PNCC Panipat refinery recorded its highest ever distillate Awards, Honours and certifications yield of 83.2%. With exceptional efforts towards • ‘International Safety Award 2015’ with merit energy efficiency measures, Panipat refinery by British Safety Council, UK achieved its lowest fuel & loss at 7.98% and lowest MBN at 47.9 in 2015-16. • PX complex was declared “Zero Steam Leak Zone” Panipat Naphtha Cracker unit also achieved highest-ever Naphtha processing of 2905 TMT & Polymer production of 1276 TMT during 15-16. ENCON measures implemented • Installation of evaporative coolers in two GTs • Replacement of MP with MLP steam as stripping steam in VDU-I • Replacement of HP with MP steam in IFO heater of Merox • Replacement of HP with MP steam for heating in Penex charge heater • Installation of 1 MW solar Power Plant Bio-diversity Panipat Refinery and PNCC planted around 4142 trees during 2015-16 contributing to the existing greenbelt area of 500 acres having more than 6,00,00 trees. Sustainability Report 2015-16 Living by Our Core Values 69 Environmental Performance Economic Performance Social Performance Guwahati Refinery Gujarat refinery Guwahati refinery has successfully completed the Gujarat refinery has achieved a record distillate Bio-diversity revamp of INDMAX unit to 150% of the original yield of 83% in 2015-16 bettering its previous best A total of 126 acres of greenbelt area has been design. of 80.1% in 2014-15. The refinery has achieved its developed by Gujarat Refinery. With additional ENCON measures implemented lower ever MBN of 55.4 and highest ever High plantation of 2,030 trees in 2015-16, the greenbelt Sulphur crude processing of 55.4 wt% in 2015-16. area has more than 2,00,000 trees of indigenous • Installation of stepless capacity control in MUG ENCON measures implemented species which includes Subabul, Kaner, Siris, of HDT Eucalyptus, Neem, Kalarsiris, Shisham, • Stoppage of HDT heater by improving heat • Idling old TPS de-aerator with stoppage of BFW Pltophorum, Kasid, Gosas, Imli etc., integration pumps Awards, Honours and certifications • Recovery of heat from RFO stream for • Additional Pre-heat exchanger in CRU Reactor• The refinery was awarded first prize in the preheating BFW Effluent circuit for pre-heat improvement prestigious ‘National Energy Conservation Bio-diversity Award’ 2015 Guawhati reinfery planted 1,000 trees in 2015-16 including 20 trees under carbon neutral event. The refinery has carried out Tree plantation adopting Japanese Akira Miyawaki model. Awards, Honours and certifications • Accredited with ISO 50001:2011 certification on energy management systems by M/s SGS India Pvt. Ltd. in July’ 15 Sustainability Report 2015-16 Living by Our Core Values 70 Environmental Performance Economic Performance Social Performance Barauni Refinery Haldia Refinery Barauni refinery achieved highest ever distillate Paldia refinery has achieved highest ever bitumen Awards, Honours and certifications yield of 89% and lowest Fuel & Loss at 8.73 wt% in production of 645 TMT in 2015-16. • 16th National Award for Excellence in Energy 2015-16. The refinery maintained consistent ENCON measures implemented Management 2015 from CII Catalytic Performing Unit (CRU) operation at 120% of design capacity for enhancing Motor Spirit • Tube Inserts in CDU-II, • Certificate of merit in the refinery sector in production and achieved highest ever Motor Spirit • Installation of LRVP in VDU-II and National Energy Conservation Award 2015 by production of 1215 TMYT in 2015-16. • Installation of magnetic Resonator in GT-1 & BEE GT-2 • Prestigious ‘Safety Innovation Award 2015’in ENCON measures implemented Bio-diversity the Oil & Gas Category from Institution of • Capacity augmentation of CO-Boiler Engineers (India) • Replacement of CAPH modules in AVU-I/II Haldia refinery has planted 200 trees in 2015-16 • Routing of hot condensate from MSQ to TPS and implemented two rain water harvesting • Solarization of office and other buildings system in refinery township with a total catchment 2 (1 MWH) area of 3700 m . Bio-diversity Barauni refinery has planted 1627 trees in 2015-16 and contributed towards two carbon neutral events in 2015-16. Sustainability Report 2015-16 Living by Our Core Values 71 Environmental Performance Economic Performance Social Performance Mathura refinery Digboi refinery Mathura refinery started producing superior VG-40 Digboi refinery has completed bio-remediation of Bio-diversity grade bitumen in 2015-16 and dispatched its first 1500MT of acidic sludge and 1700MT of oily sludge The refinery has planted 2,168 sapling in 2015-16, batch of VG-40 grade Bitumen in September 2015. in 2015-16. with a total plantation of more than 25,000 trees. ENCON measures implemented ENCON measures implemented Awards, Honours and certifications • Heat Recovery from BBU incinerator flue gas • Application of coatings inside DCU furnace • Sarvashresth Suraksha Puraskaar (1st Level • VAC slop injection in FCCU surfaces Golden Trophy and Certificate) for the year • Re-claiming spilled bitumen in SR feed by • Routing of Hydrogen rich off gas from HDTU to 2015 in the manufacturing category by melting pit facility Hydrogen Recovery system National Safety Council of India Bio-diversity Mathura refinery has planted 1000 trees in 201516 and contributed towards two carbon neutral events in 2015-16. Awards, Honours and certifications • The prestigious Golden Peacock Environment Management Award 2015 • Prestigious ‘Safety Innovation Award 2015’in the Oil & Gas Category from Institution of Engineers (India) Sustainability Report 2015-16 Living by Our Core Values 72 Environmental Performance Economic Performance Social Performance Energy Energy Conservation (ENCON) Estimated Savings by ENCON Projects IndianOil has continued its focused efforts towards Measures Standard Refinery Fuel Tonnes (SRFT) energy conservation which has enabled them to Over the years, IndianOil has given more emphasis 120000 register lowest ever Fuel & Loss (F&L), lowest ever 102800 107000 towards reducing its specific energy consumption specific energy consumption (in terms of MBN) by implementing various operational efficiency and improved performance on Energy Intensity 47480 measures and global best practices. Energy Index at 8.66%, 53.8 and 101.2 respectively in our conservation projects implemented across refineries during the year 2015-16. refineries during 2015-16 have resulted in total We are making continuous attempts to save energy savings of 47,480 Standard Refinery Fuel 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16 electricity and direct fuel consumption across our Tonnes (SRFT) equivalent to 90.60 crores, which operations. Various energy conservation measures helped in avoiding GHG emissions equivalent to are being implemented with an aim to reduce our 1,53,862 tCO2e. carbon footprint from our operations. ENCON: Carbon Saving Million tCO2e During FY 2015-16, the energy conservation 0.39 0.33 0.35 measures implemented in our refineries has resulted in total fuel savings of 47,480 SRFT valued at about 90.60 crores. 0.15 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16 ENCON: Energy Saving 5024.16 4304.03 4479.88 1987.89 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16 Sustainability Report 2015-16 Living by Our Core Values 73 Environmental Performance Economic Performance Social Performance Emissions undertaken global benchmarking studies. At IndianOil, there is a continuous thrust on energy Global warming has been established to be a Total Throughput vs Emissions conservation across all refineries and units complex and long-term challenge. Globally agreed (Refineries+PNCC) Million tCO2e through extensive performance monitoring and by to pursue the efforts to limit the temperature 16.29 keeping abreast of the latest technological 56.2 increase to 1.5oC above pre-industrial levels, developments and global best practices. 16.13 IndianOil iscommitted to address the climate 54.6 15.96 Implementation of ENCON projects helped in change issues through adoption of various 53.6 reducing the specific emission of our refineries 53.1 mitigation and adaptation measures. we at from 0.264 to 0.243, a reduction of 7.2% compared IndianOil have committed to reduce our specific to base year of 2012-13 which illustrates that we 15.16 carbon footprint by 18% with 2012-13 as base year are on course to achieve our voluntary as part of our mitigation strategy. commitment to reduce the specific carbon 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16 Our refineries contribute to nearly 90% of footprint. Despite, an increase in throughput by IndianOil’s total emission and various efforts are Throughput in Emissions in 2.82%, the total emissions have actually decreased Million Metric tonnes Million tCO2e being undertaken by the company to reduce the by 4.60% as compared to 2012-13. With the series refineries’ carbon footprint. With a view to own of ENCON measures implemented, we are able to the most advanced refining facilities, we have achieve optimum utilization of energy Scope 1 & 2 emissions consumption which has resulted in significant (Refineries +PNCC) reduction of scope1 and scope 2 emissions. All the 16.23 emissions are being reported as per international 16.06 15.88 protocols and relevant industry guidelines. In addition to reducing the emissions intensity 15.06 through process improvement, IndianOil has focused on progressively enhancing the 0.06 0.07 0.11 0.07 sequestration of GHGs by measures like increasing 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16 the renewable energy share and extensive tree Scope 2 (Million tCO2e) Scope 1 (Million tCO2e) plantations. Sustainability Report 2015-16 Living by Our Core Values 74 Environmental Performance Economic Performance Social Performance Our Journey towards reducing specific Prevention of Air pollution Specific emissions emissions by 18% compared to 2012-13 MTCO2e/MT of crude T'Put (Refineries) We continuously track all emissions released from Reduction in our refinery operations, in part of our commitment 0.262 0.264 0.241 0.243 absolute emissions by to environment sustainability. Major emissions 2.8% from 2012-13 from our refineries includes Flue gases from boilers, heaters, FCC regenerators and Sulphur Reduction in specific emissions by Recovery Units, hydrocarbon leaks and 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16 7.2% from 2012-13 evaporation during storage, handling and transportation of petroleum products and crude Specific emission Refinery-wise oil. in tCO2e/MT of crude T'Put Fixed monitoring stations have been set up across our refineries to ensure monitoring and A strict adherence by all locations to the pollution maintenance of air quality. However, Mathura, control norms as laid down by the State Pollution Panipat and Gujarat Refineries uses Mobiles van’s 0.42 Control Boards and Central Pollution Control equipped with sophisticated monitoring 0.39 0.30 Board (CPCB) are being followed. equipment. Our total SO2 emissions have been 0.27 0.26 decreased by 3% despite increase of throughput by 0.22 0.23 0.20 4.86% compared to 2014-15. The stack emissions are continuously monitored and effective dispersion of gases is ensured in line with existing i ni jar ldia ra ipa i on pollution norms at all our refineries. wa rau at Ma t bo iga hat Ha Pan Dig Ba Gu thu nga Gu Bo Sustainability Report 2015-16 Living by Our Core Values 75 Environmental Performance Economic Performance Social Performance Stack Emission in tonnes Noise pollution control 58148 58677 Our refineries have adopted following measures 2014-15 to control noise all source: 31808 30783 2015-16 • Regular Maintenance of Machines 12099 • Use of low Noise Machines 9771 10500 1800 • Suitably Designed Enclosure for Both Source Stack & and Receiver SO2 NOx Flare Gas fugitive emissions • Use of Sound Absorbing Material/devices 2014-15 31807.56 12099 58148 9771 Personnel Protective Equipment (PPEs) like ear 2015-16 30782.64 1800 58677 10500 plugs, earmuffs are also used. Acoustic insulation isused in DG set site at Pipeline location(s) to Ozone depleting substance achieve 20 dB noise reduction 8.66 1.97 2014-15 2015-16 Sustainability Report 2015-16 Living by Our Core Values 76 2014-15 2015-16 Environmental Performance Economic Performance Social Performance while guidance from qualified third parties were Bio-diversity We have developed green belts area with tree obtained in terms of choosing the natives species, cover numbering 2 million at various installations. IndianOil is committed to promote biodiversity at age of saplings required, plantation density etc., Around 50,000 saplings were planted in 2015-16 all its operational areas. We follow a proactive approach in management of biodiversity as rich biodiversity plays an important role in creating a Trees planted (from 2012-13) Trees planted in 2015-16 (Division-wise) healthy and sustainable environment at all our 62,724 21,172 operational areas. To promote diversity, we have 55,754 adopted two approaches: 51,817 51,542 16,672 • Development of Green Belts and Ecoparks 12,167 • Climate Neutral events Development of Green Belts and Ecoparks IndianOil develops greenbelt areas and tree plantations in and around its operational areas. 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16 Refineries Pipelines Marketing 2016 on Care Innovati Year of Core Values n Trust Passio Sustainability Report 2015-16 Living by Our Core Values 77 Environmental Performance Economic Performance Social Performance Water as on 31st March 2016. As a result, our water towards achieving the voluntary target reduction consumption from harvested rainwater has of specific water footprint by 20% by 2020. We UN projected a 40% global water deficit by 2030 increased by 42.5% in 2015-16 compared to have implemented various measures viz., arresting under the business-asusual (BAU) climate scenario previous year which helped in reducing the water leakages, automatic water sensing taps, water free and India is particularly vulnerable to water stress intake from other fresh water sources as well as urinals, water sprinkling systems and quarter due to overall development, urbanisation, ensuring ground water aquifers recharge. turn/self closing taps etc., under water pressures of food production, population growth IndianOil has undertaken various measures to conservation program and achieved a reduction of and increasing demand from all segment of recycle and reuse every possible drop of water and specific water footprint by 4.5% compared to 2012society. As water scarcity is already affecting every thereby reducing pressure on our water resources 13. Through recycling and reuse of treated continent, around 1.2 billion people, or nearly oneand the environment. Surface water is a major effluents, we have reduced our intake of fresh fifth of the world's population, live in areas of source of fresh water for Indianoil refineries water by 30%. The treated water is used in various physical scarcity, and another 500 million people followed by ground water. In addition to complying functions like fire & cooling water make-up, coke are approaching this situation . with the prescribed limit of water withdrawal, we cutting in Delayed Coker Unit (DCU), as DM Water In India, wide scale groundwater extraction in boilers and process plants and landscaping. have been continuously focusing on reducing through tube well have ensured more food specific water consumption and making progress relieving poverty, but the increase in demand for irrigation has resulted in severe groundwater stress. Watershed management and Rainwater harvesting is acknowledged to be the most effective strategy to combat water scarcity. Indianoil has adopted a Rainwater Harvesting policy to implement rainwater harvesting across catchment area available in all the refineries by 2017-18. Till date, we have implemented nearly 500 rainwater harvesting systems across the refineries covering total catchment area of 951 Ha Sustainability Report 2015-16 Living by Our Core Values 78 Environmental Performance Economic Performance Social Performance Water Consumption from RWH measures in m3 Source-wise share of water cunsumption water generated. The volume and the percentage 33540 83.37% 80.69% of effluent reused/recycled in 2015-16 have 42.5% 72.42% increased by 11.66% and 5.2% respectively. 23540 23540 Recycled/reused water constitutes 29.06% of total water consumption in 2015-16 compared to 25.89% in 2014-15. 27.56% 16.60% 19.27% 0.03% 0.03% 0.04% Percentage of water reused/recycled 2009-10 2009-10 2009-10 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16 87.50% 83.20% Surface Water Ground Water Rain Water Total Throughput vs water consumption 73.64% 74.38% in Million m3 Waste 88.87 56.19 Panipat Naphtha Cracker Complex (PNCC) is our 84.6 54.65 first facility to be declared as zero discharge unit. 76.48 53.13 53.59 IndianOil continuously strives to maximize reusing 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16 73.22 and recycling of treated effluent. In case of discharging the treated effluents outside the facilities, we monitor the quality of treated water Volume of Water reused/recycled in refineries 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16 in million m3 regularly to ensure adherence to all applicable Total water consumption in million m3 Crude Processed in MT environmental norms of State Pollution Control 34.67 11.66% Boards (SPCBs), Control Boards (CPCBs) and 31.05 MINAS (Minimal National Standard) set by the Ministry of Environment & Forests, Government of India. For 2015-16, the total waste water generated by all the refineries amounts to 39.61 3 3 million m , out of which 34.67 million m is reused/recycled, which is 87.5% of total waste 2014-15 2015-16 Sustainability Report 2015-16 Living by Our Core Values 79 Environmental Performance Economic Performance Social Performance Share of wastewater generation vs water reused/ recycled IndianOil aims to reduce the amount of waste for reprocessing. Oily sludge is thickened and then 100% 97% 100% generated and reuse/recycle the waste wherever transferred back to the delayed coker unit for 93% 81% 92% 82% reprocessing. Biological Sludge generated in the 92% 19% possible by adopting technologies such as Organic 69% 16% Waste Converters, bio-remediation of oily sludge Activated Sludge Treatment Plant of ETPs of 14% 25% and sale of waste to recycles etc., Oil water Refinery Units is used as manure in eco-parks in 10% refineries. The spent catalyst generated in the separators are available at all marketing locations 5% 5% to separate out oil and water, which reclaim and catalytic reformer unit (CRU) and hydrogen 4% 1% recycle the oil while draining out the water in generation unit (HGU) is collected back by the drains, ponds or pits. supplier. Fluid catalytic cracking (FCC) spent GR BR JR HR MR PR DR BGR PNC catalyst is used for construction of roads and by Share of wastewater Water reuse/ recyling During 2015-16, we recycled around 25 Tonnes of generation water percentage cement industry as a filler material. waste paper. Spent catalyst, bio-sludge and oily Share of recycled/reused water in sludge generated in crude and product tanks are total water consumption 29.09% the primary hazardous wastes generated in refinery units. Oily sludge is also generated in 12.26% product and crude tanks at pipelines and 25.89% marketing locations. Minimization of generation at source, advanced in-situ tank cleaning methods, bio-degradation using advanced microbial treatment and safe disposal in secured landfill sites is some of the methods refineries resort to, to 2014-15 2014-15 dispose off the hazardous waste. While in marketing division, hazardous waste is stored as per PCB norms in HDPE lined pits and treated through bio-remediation method under guidance #GreenInitiatives of R&D Centre, Faridabad; at many locations The R&D Centre of IndianOil devises oilivorous is used for bio-remediation of oilyeco-friendly biodegradable lube formulations sludge. Skimmed oil is chemical and heat treated, to help protect the environment. with recovered oils transferred back to the refinery Sustainability Report 2015-16 Living by Our Core Values 80 Social Performance Environmental Performance Employees CSR spent in corores Social performance 156.68 161.11 140.50 Health & Sanitation 9% 29% Contribution towards 19% RGGLVY 25% Social responsibility is intrinsic part of the 11% Flagship Project-CSR IndianOil’s core values since its inception. With the 19.61 18% 4.43 company’s CSR objectives enshrined in its Mission Education/employment 16% Total CSR Total Available CSR budget Carry forward Carry forward statement: “to help enrich the quality of life of the vocational skill 13% Spent budget allocation for from previous for 2016-17 for 2015-16 on 2015 16 2015-16 year community and preserve ecological balance and Swachh Bharat 27% 6% heritage through a strong environment conscience”, IndianOil is committed to create a path for Driking Water 2% 2% economic and societal prosperity for various Administration Expenses, 15% sections of society, empowerment of women and training and 8% overhead expenses other marginalized groups etc., with focus towards Activitywise CSR Spent Activitywise CSR Spent inclusive growth. 2014-15 2015-16 Our efforts are focused on a variety of social welfare initiatives such as safe drinking water, healthcare & Our CSR projects are undertaken preferably in the sanitation, education & employment enhancing vicinity of IndianOil’s major installations/ vocational skills, empowering women & establishments to improve the quality of life of the socially/economically backward groups, socially backward, underprivileged communities, which include marginalized groups such as SCs, STs, environment sustainability, protection of national etc. There are dedicated Social Responsibility heritage and promotion of art & culture, rural Programs in partnership with different communities development, etc. We have ensured that all of our in various focused areas. In many cases, MoU are focus areas are inline with the Schedule VII under signed with the implementing partners or the New Companies Act 2013 and Corporate Social beneficiary organizations for successful adoption Responsibility Rules, 2014. and sustainability of the projects. Sustainability Report 2015-16 Living by Our Core Values 81 Social Performance Environmental Performance Employees Major highlights of the CSR activities in 2015-16 are as follows: LPG Scheme for BPL families • Plans underway to install ten decentralized IndianOil contributes 20% of its CSR fund towards the MNRES LPG waste-to-fuel plants in the city of Varanasi scheme for release of new LPG connections. As a means to promote with a total waste recycling capacity of 50 this scheme, the security deposit for 1 cylinder and 1 pressure regulator is provided from budget allocated for the scheme. During tons/day. 2015-16, 22.8 lakh new connections provided under this scheme. • 22.8 lakh new LPG connections for BPL families • Constructed/repaired 2855 toilets in government schools in 16 states across the country under the Swachh Bharat Mission. Swachh Bharat Abhiyaan IndianOil has been actively undertaking efforts towards adapting various • Undertook more than 3600 cleanliness activities under Swachh Bharat Abhiyaan activities across the country at activities, drives and events. LoPN Hkkjr various installations/ locations. IndianOil has organized more than 3,600 • Around 69,000 non-employee patients were ,d dne LoPNrk dh vksj campaigns viz., cleanliness drives, walkathons, debates, street plays, skits, treated at IndianOil’s Assam Oil Division tree plantations, poster making competitions, etc. across India to Hospital, Digboi and the Swarna Jayanti sensitize its employees, their families and general public. Sports icons on Samudaik Hospital, Mathura. the rolls of IndianOil have also actively participated in some of the campaign. • Over 250 beneficiaries have successfully completed vocational training on skills and competencies linked to industries Swachh Vidyalaya Abhiyaan Under Government of India’s Swachh Bharat Swachh Vidyalaya • 16 students successfully completed the GNM Abhiyaan, IndianOil took the initiative to construct/repair 2855 toilets (General Nursing & Midwifery) course at the in Govt. schools across 16 States. Most of the schools allocated were in IndianOil’s Assam Oil School of Nursing, remote and backward areas of Assam, Bihar, Chhattisgarh, Odisha, etc. Digboi. • 3,137 students benefitted under IndianOil Academic Scholarship Scheme Sustainability Report 2015-16 Living by Our Core Values 82 Social Performance Environmental Performance Employees Assam Oil School of Nursing & Assam Oil Waste to fuel plants College of Nursing, Digboi, Assam IndianOil is undertaking Waste to Fuel project at IAssam Oil School of Nursing (AOSN), established Varanasi, UP by installing ten decentralized plants in 1986, offers professional nursing courses viz., General Nursing & Midwifery, GNM and B.Sc. of 5 Tons per day (TPD) capacity each. (Nursing) course. During 2015-16, 16 students successfully completed the GNM courses. Health camps IndianOil’s Assam Oil Division Hospital in Digboi IndianOil Multi-Skill Development organized various general and specialized Institute, Digboi, Assam health camps and benefitted around 16,423 IndianOil Multi-Skill Development Institute, poor villagers nearby, who have no access to Digboi (iMSDI) provides vocational training medical facilities. on skills & competencies in electrical repair & Swarna Jayanti Samudayik Hospital in Mathura, maintenance, masonry, welding, electrical reaches out to nearby villages with the help of repair & maintenance, masonry, welding, two mobile dispensaries to provide free medical hospitality, fitter, retail, beauty & wellness, services to the poor villagers. A total of 52,660 medical equipment operation, auto & two-wheeler patients were treated during 2015-16. service & maintenance, etc.. A total of 271 person were trained at the institute during 2015-16. Sarve Santu Niramaya (SSN), IndianOil Industrial Training Centre, Digboi, Assam Digboi, Assam This unique CSR project was launched in 2012 IndianOil Industrial Training Centre (ITC) offers a to provide free health consultation and three-year Fresher Trade course and specialization medicines for both human beings and in jobs like Fitter, Electrician, Turner, Mechanic livestock population of Digboi and nearby (Motor Vehicle, Refrigeration, Air Conditioning, areas. During 2015-16, 2500 patients and etc) the institute trained 61 beneficiaries during 12,200 livestock were treated under this project. 2015-16. Sustainability Report 2015-16 Living by Our Core Values 83 Social Performance Environmental Performance Employees Shikshak Dakshata Vikas Abhiyaan, IndianOil Sports Scholarship Digboi, Assam Scheme ‘Shikshak Dakshata Vikas Abhiyaan’, Currently under Sports Scholarship unique training initiative launched by Scheme, 150 scholarships in 20 sports IndianOil (AOD) has trained 81 teachers are awarded to upcoming junior players during 2015-16. from 14 to 19 years of age. Shikshak Dakshata Vikas Abhiyaan IndianOil Education Scholarships has benefitted IndianOil Muskaan 3,137 underprivileged poor and deserving Under this initiative, IndianOil has students in 2015-16 on merit-cum-means basis provided support to carry out corrective to pursue full-time courses in 10+/ITI, surgeries for cleft. A total of 204 persons Engineering, Medical and MBA. 49.5% (including 90 girls) from 26 districts in scholarships are reserved for SC/ST/OBC Assam were benefitted from this initiatives students in which 25% scholarships are reserved for girl students and 10% for Persons with so far. . Disabilities (PWD) under each category. Sustainability Report 2015-16 Living by Our Core Values 84 Social Performance Environmental Performance Employees IndianOil Foundation Presenting the Past to the Future IndianOil has created IndianOil Foundation (IOF) in carrying out infrastructure development activities IOF has also identified new projects at (i) Hampi in collaboration with the Archaeological Survey of in the following monument sites: Karnataka, (ii) Golconda Fort in Andhra Pradesh, India (ASI) and the National Culture Fund of the • Konark Sun Temple Complex, Odisha (iii) Chittorgarh Fort in Rajasthan, (iv) Rani Ki Vav in Ministry of Culture, Government of India, in the Gujarat, and (v) Lucknow Residency in Uttar • Khajuraho Group of Temples, Madhya Pradesh year 2000. The company contributes INR 10 crores Pradesh. IOF also aims to create awareness and annually to the foundation with the objective of • Kolhua, near Vaishali, Bihar interest among the students about the rich cultural protecting, preserving and promoting India’s • Kanheri caves, Maharashtra heritage through an innovative program called heritage monuments. Currently, the foundation is • Bhoganandishwara Temple, Karnatak “Cultivating Awareness Towards Conservation of Heritage (CATCH)”. Sustainability Report 2015-16 Living by Our Core Values 85 Social Performance Environmental Performance Employees Smokeless villages Lower penetration of LPG in rural areas Accessibility Affordability Availability – Awareness – Free availability of Limited availability of Low purchasing power of Lesser number of distribution Rural population not aware biomass fuels LPG in rural areas the people network in rural areas of LPG as a cleaner/safer fuel Health and socio-economic Impacts of conventional fuelwood cooking: Conventional cooking emits Indoor air pollution ranks fourth The cost of Reliance on wood as a Inefficient cooking stove hazardous pollutants including in terms of the risk factors that serious health household fuel results leads to incomplete particulate matter, carbon results to disease and death. consequences in unsustainable wood combustion which results monoxide, nitrogen dioxide, Exposure to household air from indoor air in emissions of short-lived harvesting which puts sulphur oxides (mainly from particulate pollutants such as black pollution results in pneumonia, considerable pressure coal), formaldehyde, and pollution is carbon and methane, stroke, ischaemic heart disease, estimated at on forests, particularly polycyclic organic matter, which significantly including carcinogens such as chronic obstructive pulmonary 1.3 per cent of in areas where contribute to climate benzopyrene disease (COPD), and lung cancer India’s GDP fuelwood is scarce. change In order to overcome the issues of lack of awareness and non-accessibility to LPG and to prevent the negative health and socio-economic impacts caused by traditional cooking methods, IndianOil is committed to provide an LPG connection to every rural household across India. The specific focus was to promote the adoption of clean and efficient fuels which can improve life of millions of people and prevent premature death. Our belief in promoting socially inclusive growth, inspired us to pioneer the implementation of “smokeless village” programme in November 2015. Consequently, Vychakurahalli in Karnataka was declared as first smokeless village of India on 28th November 2015 . The field officers and distributors were encouraged to adopt a village and work towards converting it into a smokeless village. As on 31st March 2016 under this scheme, around 3,400 villages & towns were made smokeless and more than 1,60,000 LPG connections were provided. Our implementation strategy addressed the three major concerns viz., awareness, availability and affordability. Sustainability Report 2015-16 Living by Our Core Values 86 Social Performance Environmental Performance Employees Awareness: Raising public awareness about the health costs of conventional cooking. Villagers were further educated about safe use of LPG, with a demonstration carried out as part of the programme. IOCL officers visited the villages on regular basis to ensure the LPG provided under subsidy are being utilized for residential purpose before declaring the village “smokeless”. Affordability: Preliminary survey with distributors and government agencies is done with respect to number of households to be covered, economic condition of villagers and number of BPL families, their willingness to take an LPG connection and their affordability to refill the cylinders. Based on the affordability, 5 kg cylinders have been promoted to extremely poor families who could not afford 14.2 kg cylinders. Though no connection has been released for free, the distributor could provide the connection on installment basis. Availability/accessibility: With the availability of LPG connections to each and every household of the identified villages, accessibility to LPG becomes unproblematic. The improved availability of LPG shall result in less reliance on biomass fuels and the women could spend productive time on other income generating activities. Sustainability Report 2015-16 Living by Our Core Values 87 Social Performance Environmental Performance Employees Ensuring uninterrupted supply in times of natural calamities and disasters Chennai floods LPGs wherever it is feasible and ensured that the refill queries. IndianOil LPG Refill Camp teams at customer’s needs are taken care to the best C h e n n a i , C u d d a l o re , Vr i d a c h a l a m a n d IndianOil worked vigorously during North-East possible extent. Chidambaram together delivered 15,007 Indane monsoon, 2015, which left Chennai and other cylinders on December 10,2015. Tamil Nadu State Office (TNSO) retail team parts of rain-ravaged Tamil Nadu marooned and collected data on the availability of fuel in retail flooded with signs of devastation and claimed over outlets under Chennai metropolitan area every 270 lives. Normal life came to a grinding halt four hours and the list of RO with address and whereas, Industrial and commercial activities were telephone numbers were drawn and uploaded on badly hit by the floods as Chennai airport was IndianOil websites and other social media closed for a week since the flood waters inundated platforms. The list was also made available with the airport. the link to all English and vernacular press for Despite the continuous and heavy downpour, publishing. IndianOil employees worked tirelessly in In order to ease LPG refill supplies, IndianOil coordination with the channel partners. Our Area organised ‘LPG Refill Camps’ and ‘Indane LPG Refill Office and Divisional Offices in Chennai made all Service Facilitators’ to guide customers on LPG the efforts to effectively dispense fuels and deliver Sustainability Report 2015-16 Living by Our Core Values 88 Social Performance Environmental Performance Employees Nepal earthquake – 2015 fuel demand and liaised with Nepal Oil the enhanced requirements of the Indian Air Force Corporation (NOC) to ensure that adequate for rescue and relief operations. Besides fuel Nepal earthquake in April 2015 was one of the quantities of fuel are provided to the earthquakesupply, our team has handed over stocks of worst ever natural disasters experienced by Nepal ravaged country on a daily basis. Petrol, diesel, LPG essential medicines and infant food to designated which killed more than 8,000 people. IndianOil and aviation turbine fuel (ATF) were supplied to authority of Government of Nepal and also rushed pulled out all the stops in a bid to boost relief Nepal using truck tankers from Raxaul in Bihar. relief material such as tents, blankets, etc, for use efforts and fuel the rescue operations in Nepal. of the quake-affected. Further, we ensured sufficient stocks of ATF IndianOil moved large volumes of petrol, diesel, (aviation turbine fuel) at IndianOil’s aviation fuel ATF and LPG into the Himalayan nation to meet its stations (AFS) at Gorakhpur and Hindon to meet Bihar State Office at IndianOil control room, Raxaul Depot IAF’s C-17 aircraft engaged in relief and rescue operations in Nepal being refuelled at the Hindon airfield Relief camp at Ghalghalia Dist Kishanganj Sustainability Report 2015-16 Living by Our Core Values 89 Employees Social Performance Health & Safety Employees The strength of an organization lies truly with its The IndianOil family consists of employees as well Training manpower. An organization is what its employees as contract workers who work relentlessly to make Each employee has a distinct responsibility of make it. We, at IndianOil, recognize the vital sure that we fulfil our responsibility for our serving the people at large. A proper and dedicated importance of this stream that has held strong country. With a strong workforce of 32,803 training of the employees is needed to polish their through the years and makes us one of the most employees, IndianOil proved its mettle in all talent and bring out the best in them. Focused respectable companies of the country. Our spheres across its business verticals. Job functional and developmental training are physical network has ensured our presence in contractors are hired who further employ contract undertaken through-out the year on an array of every nook and corner of the country, but, it is the workers to take assist in operational needs, labour topics including technical knowledge, human employees who have added the human touch to demand and allied activities among other support rights, health & safety, sustainability and career all our dealings and made us a nationally admired services. IndianOil, realizing its responsibility being development among others. Trainings are also entity. It is our core values, “Care, Innovation, the principle employer, ensures that all the imparted pertaining to the managerial levels eg. Passion and Trust”, that is shared by generation of statutory requirements are met while employing induction training for new recruits; trainings on IndianOil employees. Our Human Resource the contractors. managing and leveraging diversity, project department act as an enabler by simplifying management and operational excellence; processes and policies, designing training programs on inspiring leadership and building the modules, building work-place culture, maintaining next generation officers and special programs on industrial relations etc. career transition for superannuating employees. Specialised training programs are also undertaken across the locations to impart training on issues pertaining to disaster management, safety and 2016 on Care Innovati security of company operations. To seek feedback Year of of the employees on various systems and Core Values n Trust Passio procedures, an internal customer satisfaction survey is also undertaken. Sustainability Report 2015-16 Living by Our Core Values 90 Employees Social Performance Health & Safety 8.47 lakh man-hours of training to employees was imparted during the year Skill Development Institute 2015-16. On an average, 41.6 man-hours of trainings was provided to each employee of the officer grade while 13.52 man-hours of training was imparted to • In line with the National Skill Development non-officer grade employees. Mission of the Government of India, IndianOil is SKILL As part of HR leading the initiative of setting up a Skill DEVELOPMENT initiative on ‘investing in Development Institute at Bhubaneswar, with our people’, a Help Desk support from other PSUs under MoP&NG, for providing skill More than Portal launched in the development courses aligned to the National Skills 750 employees Marketing Division. The Help participated in 37 Qualification Framework (NSQF). Desk caters to the long felt ‘Gender Sensitization’ requirement of employees • The institute would focus on the skills pertaining to programmes conducted working in field, to have a downstream petroleum sector and petrochemicals, in to create awareness on single-point contact for all HR addition to other skills for meeting the requirement of the the subject. related queries. industry. In addition to specialised technical training, followed by stringent assessment and certification process, a training The • To imbibe a culture of on soft skills and language proficiency is provided to make the Marketing Division innovation and creativity in the candidates job-fit for the Industry. hosted a 2-day Division, “Festival of Ideas” was workshop involving all organized throughout the Pipelines State Heads and Division in February 2016. 971 Functional Heads to creative/innovative ideas were received create a road map for during the period, which are being evaluated “Sustaining Leadership for implementation. on Core Business”. • 64 training programmes on H, S & E covered 991 employees across Pipelines Division. • Special Training Programmes for Designed Electrical Safety Officers were organized at various locations. Sustainability Report 2015-16 Living by Our Core Values 91 Employees Social Performance Health & Safety Special initiatives undertaken at IiPM Sports 1. At IiPM, the focus of training and 1. IndianOil has, over the years, recruited many promising sportspersons who have made the nation proud with their remarkable sporting achievements across the globe. As on development shifted from ‘Routine’ date, total 73 sportspersons in 10 disciplines are on company rolls (including tenure base) training to ‘Niche’ programmes. and about 80 budding sportspersons are availing the IndianOil's sports scholarships. 2. The course content of staple programmes 2. In contribution to this, a new sports policy approved by the management came into effect from April such as Senior Management Programme, 2015. Induction of about 40 sports persons in 10 thrust games has been planned to strengthen the threshold and cutting edge were modified team. About 140 sports scholarships are being awarded in 20 different games to eligible candidates. in consultation with knowledge partners to make them more relevant to the current Project “Saksham” business scenario. • As part of the organization’s focus on “Investing in our People”, Project Saksham (meaning 3. Twelve new training programmes were “Competent”) – a structured leadership competency development programme was designed and conducted for the first time, focussing in launched during the year with a view to develop leadership competencies in sync with IndianOil’s diverse topics such as IndianOil’s vision, leadership competency framework. managing diversity, business analytics, • This unique learning and development initiative aims to provide senior executives with the best of competition law and HR. Special inputs required to effectively play their leadership roles. As a part of this initiative, customised and programmes were conducted to coincide specialised developmental modules on each leadership competency have been designed exclusively for IndianOil by some of the best B-schools in the country eg Strategic Leadership by IIM-Ahmedabad, with 2016 as the Year of Core Values. Customer Leadership and Operational Leadership by IIM-Bangalore, Business Results leadership by 4. A slew of finance-centric programmes IIM-Calcutta, Talent Leadership by XLRI-Jamshedpur and so on. were conducted to address the emerging • The process of Leadership centre has been institutionalised in the Corporation, with five cycles development needs. already completed, covering over 7000 executives in Grades C to H. 5. During 2015-16, IiPM launched a video• The participants for a specific leadership module under Project “Saksham” are selected on the basis of conferencing facility based on Intranet as the developmental needs identified during the Leadership Centres. well as Internet to facilitate e-sessions • Project “Saksham”, thus, is a major shift from the standardized training model to a need-based across the Corporation. development model and 200 senior executives have been covered in 10 programmes during the year. Sustainability Report 2015-16 Living by Our Core Values 92 Employees Social Performance Health & Safety Total no. of employees (as on 31.03.2016) 15887 17081 Total number of employees recruited during 2015-16; category by Male Female Total 4075 4429 140 141 20 62 343 748 9302 10366 1631 907 1064 354 20 927 1194 93 Refinery 7 100 Marketing Grade A0 to C Grade D to F Grade G to I Total Non Officers Engagement of personnel on Pipeline *This includes Consultants/ Liaison officers/ Specialist doctors, etc. engaged by IndianOil on contract 1632 basis for specific services as per their professional experience and knowledge. Contract* 30-50 Years Female R&D <30 Years Male 599 IBP Total number of employees by division (as on 31.03.2016) 14478 16203 >50 Years CO Cadre 12596 13311 Male Female Total Total number of new employees recruited during 15-16 by (excluding employees recruited under Accelerated Career Progression Scheme/Departmental Selection/ 2596 2719 Internal recruitment) 1725 350 715 55 151 123 405 14 165 85 140 20 62 Refineries Marketing Pipelines R&D IBP 337 692 Total number of employees (as on 31.03.2016); category by 1564 Age Group Caste Category 555 5547 5831 12900 2553 1619 30-50 Years Female 19513 4906 593 14356 <30 Years Male >50 Years <30 years 30-50 years >50 years Physically Challenged Sustainability Report 2015-16 Living by Our Core Values 93 Employees Social Performance Health & Safety Rate* of new employee recruited~ during 2015-16 by Age Group Gender Division PAHAL 0.59 5.31 5.18 4.9 5.21 Direct Benefit Transfer in LPG 3.66 29.19 30-50 Years Female 12.4 <30 Years Male Rate is calculated using the total employee numbers at the * end of the reporting period ^ Due to dismissal, retirement or death in service. ~ New employees joining the organization for the first time. Collective Bargaining Percentage of total employees covered by collective bargaining agreements. Around 52% EK NAYI DISHA, EK NAYI PAHAL Sustainability Report 2015-16 Living by Our Core Values 94 Employees Social Performance Health & Safety Gender Mainstreaming IndianOil takes pride in being an equal opportunity employer. No discrimination is made on the basis of caste, colour, creed or gender and all measures are taken to ensure that there is an environment of Women respect, admiration and safety towards women in Empowerment the organization. Women have been climbing the corporate ladder and providing their invaluable contribution to the future. Every year, 8th March is celebrated as Women’s Day across the establishments of IndianOil with great enthusiasm and vigour. The objective is to show respect and gratitude towards women, while Benefits to Female Employees reflecting on further actions to be taken on women Maternity Leave 180 days of maternity leaves for the first two children. empowerment. Child Care Leave 2 years child care leave without pay, once in entire service With every passing year, more and more women officers are being inducted at the entry level. The Child Adoption Leave Child Adoption Leave with pay for a period of 180 days in order current strength of female officers stands at 8.02% to facilitate them to take care of the adopted child, not exceeding of the total workforce. three years. At IndianOil, 33% reservation is given while Husband Joining Leave Special Leave Without Pay can be availed by female employees to join handing out Kisan Seva Kendra distributorships. This initiative has not only helped in motivating their husbands who are posted at another location, for a period not women entrepreneurs in managing their business exceeding 3 years during the entire service. but has also helped in making them independent and contributes positively to our sales volumes. Sustainability Report 2015-16 Living by Our Core Values 95 Employees Social Performance Health & Safety The Standing Conference of Public Enterprises (SCOPE) in An online portal by the name “Maitri” has been created for the collaboration with Bureau of Public Enterprises (BPE), organized a women employees of the Refineries Division who can take part in national convention of women in public sector-during October various discussions, as well as raise concerns. All the women MAITRI 1989 in New Delhi. The convention was attended by 500 women employees of IndianOil are part of WIPS. Various training programs delegates from all over India who put in their suggestions for the are organized on topics ranging from self-defence, awareness on Women In Public Sector (WIPS) growth of women in public sector. During the event, it was sexual and work-place harassment to stress management and acknowledged that, a National Network would enable them to organizational behaviour from time to time. transform these suggestions into reality with the help of the Public Enterprises and concerned agencies. Thus, a Forum of Women in Public Sector (WIPS) was created under the aegis of SCOPE on 12th February, 1990 having a Central Apex Forum in Delhi and four regional Forums in Mumbai (Western Region), Chennai (Southern Region), Kolkata (Eastern Region) and New Delhi (Northern Region) respectively. The formation of WIPS represents the first ever initiative made by the single largest organized sector in focusing the issues related to advancement of women. While on the one hand women have to take initiatives themselves to meet the job challenges and sustain career growth, managements of the enterprises also need to recognize the changing profile of the work force in enterprises and provide appropriate environment for their advancement and growth. Sustainability Report 2015-16 Living by Our Core Values 96 Employees Social Performance Health & Safety In pursuance to the provisions of ‘The Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 2013’ an Internal Complaints Committee has been formed at the Corporate Office, Refinery Sexual Harassment at Workplace Headquarters, Pipeline Headquarters & Regional Offices and Marketing Headquarters & Regional Offices. The committees consist of executives and officers from different departments. The committee members are expected to maintain strict confidentiality while handling any complaints and submit the reports within a stipulated time-frame to the concerned authority to further action. IndianOil is committed to prevent sexual harassment of women at work-place and prompt actions are taken in the event of reporting of such incidents. During the year 2015-16, 2 complaints of sexual harassment were filed while 4 stood pending at the end of the financial year. Sustainability Report 2015-16 Living by Our Core Values 97 Employees Social Performance Health & Safety Talent Recruitment 50-50 promotion scheme Accelerated Career Progression Scheme (ACPS) The recruitment process in every organization is of With an objective to motivate the existing non-officer immense importance. It is the talent of today that Under this scheme, workmen in employees at all levels to acquire professional qualification is reflected in the higher management and grade 7 & 8 are eligible for a and provide for avenues for appointment as officers in Grade decision making tomorrow. Given the diversity of promotion to the staff grade in A, a policy for selection of departmental candidates was put in our operations, an array of talent ranging from Delhi or nearby locations, place in 1998. All workmen in grade 5 and above and minimum engineers to management graduates, chartered provided there is a vacancy in 5 years of experience in the organization are eligible to apply accountants and lawyers to mass communication the department. Workmen must under the scheme. The qualifications, eg chartered graduates are required. All the new entrants are have an experience of at least 4 accountant, engineer, management graduate etc, they inducted at the entry level through various years in the same function possess must be similar to the ones possessed by the external competitive exams like GATE, ICAI etc. before applying under the candidates; though there is no emphasis on the minimum scheme. marks. Apart from the regular recruitments, 2 special programs are conducted for inducting staff grade officers into the officers’ grade, viz., 50-50 Special programs are also held for ex-employees promotion and the Accelerated Career Progression Career Transition where emphasis is laid on importance Scheme (ACPS). Superannuation of employees is as much a part of of a healthy lifestyle and regular medical checkups. During the year 2015-16, IndianOil indulged in an the working of an organization as is inducting new extensive recruitment drive and inducted 1772 recruits. IndianOil makes special efforts to ease the candidates at the entry level. process of the transition of separating employees from their every-day work life into the next phase of life, post-retirement. Various counselling programs on retirement and old age concerns, psychological aspects of retirement, investment and tax planning, post retirement benefits and health related issues are conducted for senior management and employees nearing retirement. Sustainability Report 2015-16 Living by Our Core Values 98 Employees Social Performance Health & Safety Contract Labour Dealership Management Programmes were Employee Engagement organized at premier management institutes Given the nature of industry we are working in and across the country in which around 2600 dealers Employee engagement is an approach that is the quantum of allied services at our participated. based on trust, integrity, two-way commitment establishments, we have to engage with a large and communication between the employees and As a part of ‘We Care’ programme, soft skills and number of contract workers for their support to the organization. It is a process which motivates grooming programmes were conducted for carry out day-to-day activities. Assignments the employees to contribute to organizational and canteen/guest house staff with experienced relating to housekeeping, security, material individual performance and productivity. external faculty. In all, 546 guest house attendants, shutdown/revamping, catering services, lifting & security personnel and canteen staff participated At IndianOil, formal joint agreements exist movement of materials, civil construction & in the trainings. between the employees and the union which helps maintenance etc are handled by the contractual both the stakeholders in indulging in productive labour across our locations. Though the terms and conversations and reaching amicable decisions. conditions of the contract between the contractor Around 52% of the employees are covered by and the labour are governed by the respective collective bargaining agreements. 24 workers contract, IndianOil, being the principal employer, unions and one officers association were ensures that there is proper adherence to the provisions of EPF & MP Act, 1952/ESI Act 1948 recognized by the management, under the code of among other social security schemes like PF, ESI discipline, during 2015-16 representing the etc. All the contractual labour engaged are executive and non-executive employees. 90% of governed by the Contract Labour (Regulation and the permanent employees are members of these CONTRACT Abolition) Act, 1970. unions and the Indian Oil Officers Association. Under Project Parivartan, training program was The management holds ‘open house’ sessions, launched for the first time for customer attendants various meetings and discussions at regular as ‘trainers’ under each Divisional Office. On a intervals with the workers unions and the officers cumulative basis, 727 customer attendants and associations, wherein the concerns raised are Retail Outlet managers were trained as ‘trainers’. answered by the Chairman and Directors. A webcast of the important meetings is hosted on Sustainability Report 2015-16 Living by Our Core Values 99 Employees Social Performance Health & Safety the intranet to provide open access to all the Benefits to OBC/SC/ST employees officers, across the organization. Topics ranging Reservation in Recruitment and Promotions from the major corporate challenges to health and Relaxation/ Concession in Recruitment safety to financial and physical parameters are and Promotions deliberated upon during the meetings. Discussions Pre promotional inputs for Grade VI to Grade related to wages and allowances revisions are first A promotions in Marketing Division conducted at the divisional levels with the SC/ST cell, Complaint Register, recognized unions and then settled through a tripartite Long Term Settlement (LTS). The Liaison Officer to address issues employees’ rights to exercise freedom of Specific Trainings association or collective bargaining are regulated by the Trade Union Act. However, there are no operations which might pose a risk to the right to freedom of association and collective bargaining. Benefits to Physically Challenged IndianOil reserves the right to propose a change in employees the condition of service applicable to the Reservation in Recruitment and Promotions workmen, in any matter, by serving a notice of 21 Social Security Benefits Relaxation/ Concession in Recruitment days. Various schemes are initiated around the l Contributory Provident Fund l Gratuity and Promotions year to increase employee’s participation l Group Linked Insurance scheme l EPS 1995 Various Allowances such as Conveyance including suggestion scheme and quality circle etc. l Compensation on Death allowance, medical equipment Special Various committees are formed like the Joint l Super Annuation Benefit Fund Scheme training, special equipment aid Management Council, Works Committee, l Post Retirement Medical Benefits Provision of Barrier free access' Management Safety Committee, Grievance Preference in terms of posting to Committee, Canteen Committee, Total Productive the extent possible Maintenance (TPM) etc. to provide employees an opportunity to participate in different activities. Sustainability Report 2015-16 Living by Our Core Values 100 Health & Safety Employees Product Responsibility Health & Safety 2015-16 Nos. Refineries Marketing Pipelines R&D Total IndianOil policy on Health, Safety and environment Our S,H&E policies are committed to: Fatal Accidents 3 1 0 0 4 covers all the employees under all categories and Fatalities 4 6 0 0 10 l Establish and maintain good standards for locations. We are committed to conduct business Near miss 76391 2112 53 8 78564 safety of the people, the processes and the with strong environment conscience ensuring Occupational Nil Nil Nil Nil Nil assets. sustainable development, safe workplaces and Diseases enrichment of quality of life of Employees, l Comply with all Rules and Regulations Mandays lost 689# 278 0 0 967 Customers and the Community. We at IndianOil on Safety, Occupational Health and No of loss time 0 9 0 0 9 believe that a safe and healthy work environment is Environmental Protection. accidents a basic requirement for ensuring employee welll Plan, design, operate and maintain all Major Fire 2 3 0 0 5 being and are committed to maintain high facilities, processes and procedures to secure incidents standards in environment management and sustained Safety, Health and Environmental Minor fire Nil 2 Nil 3 5 providing safety and health work environment for Protection. incidents our employees. l Remain trained, equipped and ready for #total 689 days 501 due to 4 injuries in major Refineries, which constitutes more than 90% of our effective and prompt response to accidents fire at JR and 188 days due to previous year LTAs. total emissions, are under constant vigil by the and emergencies. CPCB and SPCB with respect to their emission l Welcome audit of our S,H&E conduct by standards and are certified to ISO:14064 standards external body, so that stakeholder for sustainable development as well as for the confidence is safeguarded. Occupational Health & Safety Management System l Adopt and promote industry best practices to (OHSMS/OHSAS-18001). In addition to complying avert accidents and improve our S,H&E with all the regulations, we conduct safety audits performance. across the locations throughout the year. l Remain committed to be a leader in Safety, In line with its commitment to ensure the safety of Occupational Health and Environmental employees, we have Works councils, occupational Protection through continuing improvement. health and safety committees and other employee l Make efforts to preserve ecological balance representation bodies to deal with impacts across and heritage all installations to make sure that the rights of all workers are protected at all times. Sustainability Report 2015-16 Living by Our Core Values 101 Health & Safety Employees Product Responsibility Disclosures Unit Value 2016 on Avoid Rash Innovati Care Driving Operations with environmental impact assessments and ongoing % 100* Year of Core Values Passio n Trust monitoring Operations with public disclosure of results of environmental and % 100* social impact assessments While Overtaking Operations with works councils, occupational health and safety committees % 100# Know the Threat and other employee representation bodies to deal with impacts * For all new projects with substantial pollution load, environment impact assessment & social impact Negligent Driving assessment are carried out along with public disclosure of its results. May be a Lifelong Regret # Procedure is existing and in practice to deal all impacts by Work Councils, occupational health and safety committees and also represented by body of collectives. Do Not Use Mobile Phone While Driving Do Not Drink and Drive Tips on Road Safety Do Not Use Do Not Avoid Rash Mobile Phone Drink and Driving While Driving Drive Use Dipper & Fog Lights Set the Rear Ensure Timely While Driving ad Night & View Mirror in the Servicing of In Foggy Conditions Right Prosition Your Vehicle Sustainability Report 2015-16 Living by Our Core Values 102 Health & Safety Employees Product Responsibility Safety refineries, pipelines, marketing divisions and R&D centre have independent HSE departments. A IndianOil sites have established safety procedures and practices to be followed by the employees to designated Safety Officer is placed at all marketing ensure safe working. Employees of different categories have been trained continuously on safe working and pipelines installations. Annual safety-cumprocedures and practices. technical audits by multi-disciplinary teams, safety S.No Employee category % of employees given safety & No. index surveys and safety awareness surveys were skill up-gradation training during 2015-16 carried out at all the locations. 1 Permanent Male employees 58.62% 2 Permanent Women Employees 85.26% 3 Permanent Employees with Disability 27.75% 4 Casual/Temporary/Contractual 100% Employees/Contract labor All refineries were facilitated to upload the provided with safety and security measures to updated status of External Safety Audit and Prevent and mitigate negative impacts on local Surprise Safety Check in Oil Industry Safety communities, employees, or property. Directorate web site on quarterly basis. National Safety Committee Safety Day and Fire Service Day are observed on 4th March and 14th April respectively at all our We have set up safety committees across the installations. On site and off site mock drills are locations that represent 100% of our employees carried out at all our locations as per the schedule. besides monitoring the Occupational health and These drills are aimed at assessing the in-house safety programs. We have two tier Safety preparedness and alertness during the crisis Committee: Management Safety Committee & situation. Operation and maintenance of fire Shop-floor Safety Committee. Management safety extinguishers, ensuring electrical safety at pump Committee is headed by unit head consisting of island, sales building, regular checks of other members upto HOD levels and workmen equipments like air compressor are some of the representatives. Shop floor committees are topics covered during the training modules, both formed at various sections in the refinery with classrooms as well as mock drill session. intensive participation from the workmen. The Operations having significant potential are Sustainability Report 2015-16 Living by Our Core Values 103 Health & Safety Employees Product Responsibility Disaster Management Oil Spill response Paradip and Vadinar along with basic OSR facilities IIndianOil has taken lot of measure in preventing viz., oil dispersant, spraying boom etc., Regular Being a responsible company, we have taken oil spills during handling and transportation of Offshore drills are conducted along with Port Trust various measures to ensure all our employees are crude oil. Oil Spill Response facilities are available and Coast Guard Station and other oil companies equipped well to handle any emergency that may at all our port locations in the event of any spill. both at Paradip and at Vadinar. arise at the refinery and marketing sites. All our locations are operating its “Emergency Response Regular monthly meetings are conducted for Oil Spill Response Facilities & Disaster Management Plan (ERDMP)” as per the assessing the efficacy of the oil response facilities Inter-Tidal Boom Disk and Mop Skimmers Floating guidelines issued by PNGRB and accredited by the for Tier-1 both at Paradip and Vadinar. Dedicated Tanks Off-Loading Pump Anti-Pollution Vessels PNGRB approved agencies. Further, our Refineries Oil Spill Response Vehicle is available both at Ballast Water Treatment Plant. have conducted quarterly on site disaster drill and Paradip and Vadinar containing Oil Spill Response once in a year disaster drills during odd hours as Equipment for Tier-1 facility. In addition to this, a per norms. separate Maintenance Vessel is also deployed at A offshore oil spill mock drill was conducted at Paradip Sustainability Report 2015-16 Living by Our Core Values 104 Product Responsibility Health & Safety GRI Index Product Responsibility 2016 on Care Innovati Year of Core Values Trust Passion Best Drivers keep their vehicles fit! Check air pressure, break oil and radiator water before every trip Check power driving in steering wheel Check fitment of all mirrors Check wheels and joint pin of trailer/cabin properly Sustainability Report 2015-16 Living by Our Core Values 105 Product Responsibility Health & Safety GRI Index In a repeated endeavour towards achieving Patents in 2015-16 The total expenditure on Research & Development responsible product stewardship, IndianOil is 74 during the year: carrying out various research activities in its state S.N. Particulars Amount spent in of the art R&D centre which develops novel 52 35 39 INR. crores technologies, number of eco-friendly formulations 1. Capital Expenditure 362.04 and globally competitive products. With focus towards reducing the environment footprint, 2. Revenue Expenditure 235.27 IndianOil is carrying out extensive research on Total patents filed Indian Petents Overseas Petents Total expenditure 597.31 alternative energy sources viz., ethanol blended petrol, bio-diesel, H-CNG blends and Hydrogen Patents: Technology-wise energy. Our R&D is also focussed on cutting-edge 224 41 189 research in the areas of nanotechnology, petrochemicals & polymers, coal gasification/ liquefaction, and gas-to-liquid technologies. IndianOil holds 454 active patents, of which 184 are Indian patents, 92 are US patents and 178 are patents of other countries. Refineries Lubes Others Number of patents filed Patents filed by R&D 454 92 74 384 52 54 270 233 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16 Active Patents International Patents Sustainability Report 2015-16 Living by Our Core Values 106 Product Responsibility Health & Safety GRI Index Commercialized products and process production and scale-up. This is the part of theQ kilolitres compared to 1,86,100 kilolitres of ethanol green initiative of the Indian Oil Corporation and in 2014-15. Further, IndianOil also procured 5,081 In d ian O il makes co ntin u o u s effo rts in Department of Biotechnology, Government of kilolitres of Bio-diesel in 2015-16. commercializing the indigenous product India. Apart from conducting the research and developed by our R&D team and the scale-up studies, this Centre is the new concept in commercialized four patents in the year 2015-16. Ethanol procured itself and is also engaged in the assessment of the 4,23,413.00 INDMAX unit technology, which has indigenously Global Warming Potential of these biofuels and in kilolitres been developed by IndianOil's R&D Centre, has their energy analysis. Following three projects been commissioned at Paradip Refinery The have been completed on bio-fuels research: 1,86,100.00 commissioning of INDMAX Unit at Paradip marks a • Life cycle assessment of fuel ethanol from 1,49,000.00 major milestone and IndianOil is now recognized sugarcane molasses in northern and western globally as a technology licensor. INDMAX enables India and its impact on Indian biofuel direct conversion of petroleum hydrocarbon programme streams into more valuable light distillates and 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16 • Life Cycle Assessment of rice straw utilization petrochemical feedstock. practices in India To further strengthen its R&D initiatives, IndianOil • Global Warming Potential and energy analysis has acquired additional land of about 59 acres at of Second generation ethanol production from the Industrial Model Township in Faridabad for rice straw in India using different production setting up the second R&D campus (technology technologies Development & Deployment Centre) exclusively for Alternative & Renewable Energy (i-CARE). Ethanol Blended Petrol IndianOil has achieved 3.46% ethanol blending in IOC-DBT Centre at Research and Development petrol during the year 2015-16. Both the ethanol Centre, Indian Oil Corporation Ltd, Sector 13, procured and blending percentage of ethanol has Faridabad is conducting the cutting edge research continued to increase over the years. In 2015-16, the on second and third generation biofuels total quantity of ethanol procured was 4,23,413 Sustainability Report 2015-16 Living by Our Core Values 107 Product Responsibility Health & Safety GRI Index Lubricant Technology Refining Bio Technology Technology Technical Fuel services Additives R&D Focus areas Petrochemicals Nanotechnology & Polymers Future Alternate Energy Energy Sources Sustainability Report 2015-16 Living by Our Core Values 108 Product Responsibility Health & Safety GRI Index Marketing Communications are connected to our customer through a toll free Management Solution under XTRAPOWER Fleet number. IndianOil has round-the-clock LPG Card Program and covered 23 lakh vehicles so far IndianOil is conscious of sensitive nature of the emergency helpline. A total of 4,62,348 customer by the fleet card program. A business portal and product portfolio and determined to maintain complaints were received, out of which 4,62,239 Mobile App (Xsparsh) for bulk customers was customer confidence. We serve our customers (99.97%) were resolved during FY 2015-16. launched during the year. with product and services of highest quality. We Further, we are connected to our customers are committed to building long-term relationships through social media sites viz., Facebook, Twitter, with our customers, delivering maximum value to Instagram and Youtube. them. IndianOil has 45,000 plus customer touch points which includes more than 25,000 petrol and We have our loyalty programmes designed diesel stations including 6,200 KSKs. Our Indane exclusively to benefit the large number of LPG cooking gas reaches the doorsteps of 9.88 customers. IndianOil XTRAREWARDS is India's first crore households in about 3,270 markets through online rewards programme that seeks to inculcate a network of 9,144 distributors. With presence the habit of redeeming points. It is currently active over 70 countries, IndianOil offers a full slate of in Mumbai, Delhi, Chennai, Ahmedabad, petrochemical products and intermediates which Bengaluru, Bhubaneshwar, Coimbatore, Mysore, covers over 80% of the plastics applications. In Pune and Secunderabad, with plans to reach other order to maintain the customer trust, we cities soon. continuously seek suggestions from customers In order to cater to the specific needs of logistics and upgrade our products and services. At Industry, IndianOil offers complete Fleet IndianOil, we ensure grievance redressal across all customer categories and stakeholders. All customer complaints and grievances are addressed and redressed by the respective department. In addition to portal for queries/complaints on LPG and fuel stations, we Sustainability Report 2015-16 Living by Our Core Values 109 Product Responsibility Health & Safety GRI Index Non-Fuel retail offering • 540 quality audits of locations storing corresponding Food Grade Certificates, In order to provide engaging experience to our products were conducted to strengthen the compliance to Restriction of Hazardous customers, IndianOil is focused on enhancing its Quality Assurance system. Substances, Durability properties, BTU/lb i.e. heat non-fuel retail offerings through its 195 million sq • The IndianOil QC Department played a pivotal capacity details, Material Safety Data Sheet. feet of retail space. Several alliances have already role in finalizing the Industry Quality Control We do not reclaim any of our sold products or the been forged with leading brands like Hindustan Manual 2015, and the development of BIS packaging material involved. There is a 100% reuse Unilever Ltd, Dabur, ICICI Bank, Ferns & Petals, specifications for various fuels and related test of the domestic and commercial LPG cylinders. MTR Foods, PVR Cinema, UAE Exchange, Reliance methods Compliance Capital and DHL. We don’t indulge in sale of any banned or disputed Petroleum products products. No cases were registered in respect of In line with MoP&NG guidelines, most of the non-compliance with regulatory or voluntary Northern Region of India has switched over to BScodes concerning health and safety impacts of IV compliant fuel. As on 01.04.2016, BS IV grade products and services or product and service fuels were supplied to the whole state of Haryana, information and labelling. No incidents of nonHimachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Delhi, J&K, compliance concerning marketing communication Punjab, 4 districts in Rajasthan and 28 districts in or breach of customer privacy and loss of customer Uttar Pradesh . Product labelling data were reported. No significant monetary fines Quality control (QC) were levied during the year for the provision and • During the year 2015-16, more than 1.8 lakh It is necessary for the customers and end users to use of products and services. samples were tested in marketing QC labs to have access to information about the impacts of products and services to make informed decisions. Key Accounts Management (KAM) ensure that only quality products reaches our customers. These labs also provided all All our products follow Bureau of Indian Standards Key Accounts Management (KAM) was introduced technical support during roll out of BS IV fuels guidelines for product information and labelling. some time back on All India basis for all KAM replacing BS III grade as per Auto Fuel Policy For products like naphtha, further value additions customers. Annual KAM meetings are conducted announced by the Government. Further, to are done as per consumer applications. All our by State Offices to review various issues. For each ensure quality at selling points, more than packed lubricants display safety and disposal KAM customer, quarterly feedback is obtained for 45,000 samples were checked by mobile labs. instructions. Petrochemical products adhere to measuring their satisfaction level and reviewed Sustainability Report 2015-16 Living by Our Core Values 110 Product Responsibility Health & Safety GRI Index regularly at State Office for further improvement. Fridays between 3 pm and 4 pm to understand S.No Division Pending complaints (%) A set of questions is forwarded to customers after customer needs better and offer customized 1 P&BD Nil every quarter and their response is sought. solutions. During the year, total 4,62,348 Customers record their response against each 2 Marketing 0.32 complaints/feedbacks were received, out of which question and forward the same to our State 3 R&D Nil 109 customer complaints are pending at the end of Offices. Based on the feedback, Customer the financial year. Percentage of customer 4 IBP (Cryogenics) Nil Satisfaction Index (CSI) is evaluated by the concerned State Office and necessary actions are complains pending across the divisions at the end taken. of financial year 2015-16 are as follows: Customer Satisfaction Consumer survey / market feedbacks are conducted at regular intervals besides regular customer engagement initiatives, to assess the customer satisfactions and improve upon the deliverables to meet customer expectations. The feedback also includes non-fuel services provided by our retail outlets. Provisions are in place for rating of LPG Distributor Services. Time schedules have been drawn out to enable customers to meet the higher officials. Meetings are fixed at Head Office and State Office level on Tuesdays, Wednesdays & Thursdays between 3 pm & 4 pm and at Divisional, Area Offices and LPG bottling plants on Mondays, Wednesdays and Sustainability Report 2015-16 Living by Our Core Values 111 GRI Index Product Responsibility UNGC Principles Linkage GRI Index Disclosures Link & Page No. Identified Reason(s) for Explanation for Page No. Omission(s) Omission(s) Omission(s) Omission(s) G4-1 Chairman’s Message Not applicable Not applicable Not applicable 2 G4-2 Stakeholder engagement & materiality Not applicable Not applicable Not applicable 17 ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE G4-3 Back cover Not applicable Not applicable Not applicable G4-4 Brand Portfolio Not applicable Not applicable Not applicable 11 G4-5 Back cover Not applicable Not applicable Not applicable G4-6 About IndianOil Not applicable Not applicable Not applicable 6 G4-7 Shareholding pattern Not applicable Not applicable Not applicable 12 G4-8 Value chain Not applicable Not applicable Not applicable 13 G4-9 About IndianOil, Economic performance Not applicable Not applicable Not applicable 6, 57 G4-10 About IndianOil, Economic performance Not applicable Not applicable Not applicable 6, 57 G4-11 Employees Not applicable Not applicable Not applicable 90 G4-12 Value chain Not applicable Not applicable Not applicable 13 G4-13 Report Profile, Scope & Boundary, Economic Performance Not applicable Not applicable Not applicable 1 G4-14 Key Impacts, Risks and Opportunities Not applicable Not applicable Not applicable 26 G4-15 About IndianOil Associations, Charters And Membership, Not applicable Not applicable Not applicable 16, 34 Corporate Governance – External Commitments And Public Policy Participations G4-16 About IndianOil Associations, Charters And Membership Not applicable Not applicable Not applicable 16 Sustainability Report 2015-16 Living by Our Core Values 112 GRI Index Product Responsibility UNGC Principles Linkage Disclosures Link & Page No. Identified Reason(s) for Explanation for Page No. Omission(s) Omission(s) Omission(s) Omission(s) IDENTIFIED MATERIAL ASPECTS AND BOUNDARIES G4-17 Report Profile, Scope & Boundary Not applicable Not applicable Not applicable 1 G4-18 Report Profile, Scope & Boundary Not applicable Not applicable Not applicable 1 G4-19 Stakeholder Engagement & Materiality Not applicable Not applicable Not applicable 17 G4-20 Stakeholder Engagement & Materiality Not applicable Not applicable Not applicable 17 G4-21 Stakeholder Engagement & Materiality Not applicable Not applicable Not applicable 17 G4-22 Report Profile, Scope & Boundary Not applicable Not applicable Not applicable 1 G4-23 Report Profile, Scope & Boundary Not applicable Not applicable Not applicable 1 STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT G4-24 Stakeholder engagement & materiality-Our stakeholders Not applicable Not applicable Not applicable 17 G4-25 Stakeholder engagement & materiality-Our stakeholders Not applicable Not applicable Not applicable 17 G4-26 Stakeholder engagement & materiality-Stakeholders Engagement Not applicable Not applicable Not applicable 17 G4-27 Stakeholder engagement & materiality-Stakeholders Engagement Not applicable Not applicable Not applicable 17 REPORT PROFILE G4-28 Report Profile, Scope & Boundary Not applicable Not applicable Not applicable 1 G4-29 Report Profile, Scope & Boundary Not applicable Not applicable Not applicable 1 G4-30 Report Profile, Scope & Boundary Not applicable Not applicable Not applicable 1 G4-31 Report Profile, Scope & Boundary Not applicable Not applicable Not applicable 1 G4-32 Report Profile, Scope & Boundary Not applicable Not applicable Not applicable 1 G4-33 Report Profile, Scope & Boundary Not applicable Not applicable Not applicable 1 Sustainability Report 2015-16 Living by Our Core Values 113 GRI Index Product Responsibility UNGC Principles Linkage Disclosures Link & Page No. Identified Reason(s) for Explanation for Page No. Omission(s) Omission(s) Omission(s) Omission(s) GOVERNANCE G4-34 Corporate Governance Not applicable Not applicable Not applicable 28 G4-35 Corporate governance – The Board of Directors 29 G4-36 Corporate governance – Our Board Committees 31 G4-37 Corporate governance – Board Meetings 32 G4-38 Corporate GovernanceThe Board Of Directors 29 G4-39 Corporate GovernanceThe Board Of Directors 29 G4-40 Corporate GovernanceThe Board Of Directors 29 G4-41 Corporate GovernanceThe Board Of Directors 29 G4-42 Corporate governance – Our Board Committees 31 G4-43 Corporate governance – Board Meetings 32 G4-44 Corporate GovernanceThe Board Of Directors, 29,31 Our Board Committees G4-45 Key Impacts, Risks and Opportunities 26 G4-46 Key Impacts, Risks and Opportunities 26 G4-47 Key Impacts, Risks and Opportunities 26 G4-48 Key Impacts, Risks & Opportunities 26 G4-49 Key Impacts, Risks & Opportunities 26 G4-50 Key Impacts, Risks & Opportunities 26 G4-51 Corporate Governance Remuneration of Directors 33 G4-52 Corporate Governance Remuneration of Directors 33 Sustainability Report 2015-16 Living by Our Core Values 114 GRI Index Product Responsibility UNGC Principles Linkage Disclosures Link & Page No. Identified Reason(s) for Explanation for Page No. Omission(s) Omission(s) Omission(s) Omission(s) G4-53 Corporate Governance Remuneration of Directors 33 G4-54 Corporate Governance Remuneration of Directors 33 G4-55 Corporate Governance Remuneration of Directors 33 ETHICS AND INTEGRITY G4-56 Corporate Governance 28 G4-57 Corporate Governance – Integrity and Accountability 36 G4-58 Corporate Governance Whistle blower policy 33 MATERIAL ASPECT: ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE G4-DMA Economic Performance 57 G4-EC1 Economic Performance, Social Performance 57, 81 G4-EC2 Sustainable Development Initiatives, Environmental performance 46, 66 G4-EC3 Employees 90 G4-EC4 Note – 20, Revenue from Operations (Gross) Annual Report 2015-16 (Page No. 210) MATERIAL ASPECT: MARKET PRESENCE G4-DMA Corporate Governance 28 G4-EC5 Corporate governance Human Rights 34 G4-EC6 Employees Talent Recruitment 98 Sustainability Report 2015-16 Living by Our Core Values 115 GRI Index Product Responsibility UNGC Principles Linkage Disclosures Link & Page No. Identified Reason(s) for Explanation for Page No. Omission(s) Omission(s) Omission(s) Omission(s) MATERIAL ASPECT: INDIRECT ECONOMIC IMPACTS G4-DMA Social Performance 81 G4-EC7 Social Performance 81 G4-EC8 Social Performance 81 MATERIAL ASPECT: PROCUREMENT PRACTICES G4-DMA Corporate Governance 28 G4-EC9 Corporate governance Public Procurement Policy for Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises 34 OG1 Economic Performance – E & P 63 CATEGORY: ENVIRONMENTAL MATERIAL ASPECT: MATERIALS G4-DMA Environmental Performance Material 66 G4-EN1 Environmental Performance Material 66 G4-EN2 Environmental Performance Material 66 MATERIAL ASPECT: ENERGY G4-DMA Environmental Performance Energy 73 G4-EN3 Environmental Performance Energy 73 G4-EN4 Environmental Performance Energy 73 G4-EN5 Environmental Performance Energy 73 G4-EN6 Environmental Performance Energy 73 G4-EN7 Environmental Performance Energy 73 Sustainability Report 2015-16 Living by Our Core Values 116 GRI Index Product Responsibility UNGC Principles Linkage Disclosures Link & Page No. Identified Reason(s) for Explanation for Page No. Omission(s) Omission(s) Omission(s) Omission(s) MATERIAL ASPECT: WATER G4-DMA Environmental Performance Water 78 G4-EN8 Environmental Performance Water 78 G4-EN9 Environmental Performance Water 78 G4-EN10 Environmental Performance – Water, Waste 78, 79 MATERIAL ASPECT: BIODIVERSITY G4-DMA Environmental Performance – Biodiversity 77 G4-EN11 Environmental Performance – Biodiversity 77 G4-EN12 Environmental Performance – Biodiversity 77 G4-EN13 Environmental Performance – Biodiversity 77 G4-EN14 Environmental Performance – Biodiversity 77 MATERIAL ASPECT: EMISSIONS G4-DMA Environmental Performance Emissions 74 G4-EN15 Environmental Performance Emissions 74 G4-EN16 Environmental Performance Emissions 74 G4-EN17 Sustainable Development Initiatives 46 G4-EN18 Environmental Performance Emissions 74 G4-EN19 Environmental PerformanceEnergy Conservation Measures, Emissions 73, 74 G4-EN20 Environmental Performance – Prevention of Air Pollution 75 G4-EN21 Environmental Performance – Prevention of Air Pollution 75 Sustainability Report 2015-16 Living by Our Core Values 117 GRI Index Product Responsibility UNGC Principles Linkage Disclosures Link & Page No. Identified Reason(s) for Explanation for Page No. Omission(s) Omission(s) Omission(s) Omission(s) MATERIAL ASPECT: EFFLUENTS AND WASTE G4-DMA Environmental Performance –Waste 79 G4-EN22 Environmental Performance –Waste 79 G4-EN23 Environmental Performance –Waste 79 G4-EN24 Health & Safety – Oil Spills Response 104 G4-EN25 Not Applicable G4-EN26 Environmental Performance –Waste 79 MATERIAL ASPECT: PRODUCTS AND SERVICES G4-DMA Product Responsibility 105 G4-EN27 Product Responsibility 105 G4-EN28 Product Responsibility – Product Labelling 110 MATERIAL ASPECT: COMPLIANCE G4-DMA Product Responsibility Compliance 110 G4-EN29 Environmental Performance 66 MATERIAL ASPECT: TRANSPORT G4-DMA Product Responsibility 105 G4-EN30 Product Responsibility 105 MATERIAL ASPECT: OVERALL G4-DMA Product Responsibility 105 G4-EN31 Product Responsibility 105 MATERIAL ASPECT: SUPPLIER ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT G4-DMA Corporate Governance 28 Sustainability Report 2015-16 Living by Our Core Values 118 GRI Index Product Responsibility UNGC Principles Linkage Disclosures Link & Page No. Identified Reason(s) for Explanation for Page No. Omission(s) Omission(s) Omission(s) Omission(s) G4-EN32 Corporate Governance – Sustainable Sourcing 36 G4-EN33 Corporate Governance – Sustainable Sourcing 36 MATERIAL ASPECT: ENVIRONMENTAL GRIEVANCE MECHANISMS G4-DMA Environmental Performance 66 G4-EN34 Environmental Performance 66 OG2 Sustainable Development Initiatives 46 OG3 Sustainable Development Initiatives 46 OG4 Environmental Performance – Biodiversity 77 OG5 Environmental Performance Waste Not Applicable 79 OG6 Environmental Performance Emissions 74 OG7 Not Applicable Not Applicable OG8 Product Responsibility Compliance 110 CATEGORY: SOCIAL SUB-CATEGORY: LABOR PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK MATERIAL ASPECT: EMPLOYMENT G4-DMA Employees 90 G4-LA1 Employees Talent Recruitment 98 G4-LA2 Employees Employee Engagement, Contract labours 99 G4-LA3 Employees – Gender Mainstreaming 95 MATERIAL ASPECT: LABOR/MANAGEMENT RELATIONS G4-DMA Employees 90 G4-LA4 Employees Employee Engagement 99 Sustainability Report 2015-16 Living by Our Core Values 119 GRI Index Product Responsibility UNGC Principles Linkage Disclosures Link & Page No. Identified Reason(s) for Explanation for Page No. Omission(s) Omission(s) Omission(s) Omission(s) MATERIAL ASPECT: OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY G4-DMA Health & Safety 101 G4-LA5 Health & Safety Safety Committee 103 G4-LA6 Health & Safety 101 G4-LA7 Health & Safety Safety Committee 103 G4-LA8 Employees Employee Engagement 99 MATERIAL ASPECT: TRAINING AND EDUCATION G4-DMA Employees 90 G4-LA9 Employees Training 90 G4-LA10 Employees Training 90 G4-LA11 E-Governance Initiative 38 MATERIAL ASPECT: DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY G4-DMA Corporate Governance 28 G4-LA12 Corporate GovernanceThe Board of Directors 29 MATERIAL ASPECT: EQUAL REMUNERATION FOR WOMEN AND MEN G4-DMA Corporate Governance 28 G4-LA13 Corporate GovernanceHuman Rights 34 MATERIAL ASPECT: SUPPLIER ASSESSMENT FOR LABOR PRACTICES G4-DMA Corporate Governance 28 G4-LA14 Corporate GovernanceHuman Rights 34 G4-LA15 Corporate GovernanceHuman Rights 34 Sustainability Report 2015-16 Living by Our Core Values 120 GRI Index Product Responsibility UNGC Principles Linkage Disclosures Link & Page No. Identified Reason(s) for Explanation for Page No. Omission(s) Omission(s) Omission(s) Omission(s) MATERIAL ASPECT: LABOR PRACTICES GRIEVANCE MECHANISMS G4-DMA Corporate Governance 258/ G4-LA16 Corporate GovernanceHuman Rights 34 SUB-CATEGORY: HUMAN RIGHTS MATERIAL ASPECT: INVESTMENT G4-DMA Corporate Governance 28 G4-HR1 Corporate GovernanceHuman Rights 34 G4-HR2 Employees Training 90 MATERIAL ASPECT: NON-DISCRIMINATION G4-DMA Corporate Governance 28 G4-HR3 Corporate GovernanceHuman Rights 34 MATERIAL ASPECT: FREEDOM OF ASSOCIATION AND COLLECTIVE BARGAINING G4-DMA Employees 90 G4-HR4 Employees Employee Engagement 99 MATERIAL ASPECT: CHILD LABOR G4-DMA Corporate Governance 28 G4-HR5 Corporate GovernanceHuman Rights 34 MATERIAL ASPECT: FORCED OR COMPULSORY LABOR G4-DMA Corporate Governance 28 G4-HR6 Corporate GovernanceHuman Rights 34 Sustainability Report 2015-16 Living by Our Core Values 121 GRI Index Product Responsibility UNGC Principles Linkage Disclosures Link & Page No. Identified Reason(s) for Explanation for Page No. Omission(s) Omission(s) Omission(s) Omission(s) MATERIAL ASPECT: SECURITY PRACTICES G4-DMA Health & Safety 101 G4-HR7 Health & Safety 101 MATERIAL ASPECT: INDIGENOUS RIGHTS G4-DMA Corporate Governance 28 G4-HR8 Corporate GovernanceHuman Rights 34 MATERIAL ASPECT: ASSESSMENT G4-DMA Corporate Governance 28 G4-HR9 Corporate GovernanceHuman Rights 34 MATERIAL ASPECT: SUPPLIER HUMAN RIGHTS ASSESSMENT G4-DMA Corporate Governance 28 G4-HR10 Corporate GovernanceHuman Rights 34 G4-HR11 Corporate GovernanceHuman Rights 34 MATERIAL ASPECT: HUMAN RIGHTS GRIEVANCE MECHANISMS G4-DMA Corporate Governance 28 G4-HR12 Corporate GovernanceHuman Rights 34 OG9 Corporate GovernanceHuman Rights 34 SUB-CATEGORY: SOCIETY MATERIAL ASPECT: LOCAL COMMUNITIES G4-DMA Social Performance 81 G4-SO1 Social Performance 81 G4-SO2 Social Performance 81 Sustainability Report 2015-16 Living by Our Core Values 122 GRI Index Product Responsibility UNGC Principles Linkage Disclosures Link & Page No. Identified Reason(s) for Explanation for Page No. Omission(s) Omission(s) Omission(s) Omission(s) MATERIAL ASPECT: ANTI-CORRUPTION G4-DMA Corporate Governance 28 G4-SO3 Corporate Governance Corruption and Anti Competitive Behaviour 33 G4-SO4 Corporate Governance Corruption and Anti Competitive Behaviour 33 G4-SO5 Corporate Governance Corruption and Anti Competitive Behaviour 33 MATERIAL ASPECT: PUBLIC POLICY G4-DMA Corporate Governance 28 G4-SO6 Corporate Governance Human Rights 34 MATERIAL ASPECT: ANTI-COMPETITIVE BEHAVIOR G4-DMA Corporate Governance 28 G4-SO7 Corporate Governance Corruption and Anti Competitive Behaviour 33 MATERIAL ASPECT: COMPLIANCE G4-DMA Product responsibility 105 G4-SO8 Product responsibility Compliance 110 Sustainability Report 2015-16 Living by Our Core Values 123 UNGC Principles Linkage GRI Index Abbreviations UNGC Principles Linkage UNGC Principles GRI Disclosures to report actions taken to implement UNGC Principles and outcomes from implementing UNGC Principles Report Heading Page No. Principle 1: Human Rights Businesses should Employees – Training 90 support and respect Health & Safety 101 the protection of internationally Corporate Governance – Human Rights 34 proclaimed human rights Principle 2: Human Rights Business should make sure they are not Corporate Governance – Human Rights 34 complicit in human rights abuses. Principle 3: Labour Businesses should uphold the freedom of association Employees _ Employee Engagement 99 and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Principle 4: Labour Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms Corporate Governance – Human Rights 34 of forced and compulsory labour. Principle 5: Labour Businesses should Corporate Governance – Human Rights 34 uphold the effective abolition Employees 90 of child labour. Corporate Governance – Human Rights 34 Principle 6: Labour Businesses should Employees – Talent Recruitment 98 uphold the elimination of Employees – gender mainstreaming 95 discrimination in respect of employment Employees Training 90 and occupation. Corporate Governance – The Board of Directors 29 Sustainability Report 2015-16 Living by Our Core Values 124 UNGC Principles Linkage GRI Index Abbreviations UNGC Principles GRI Disclosures to report actions taken to implement UNGC Principles and outcomes from implementing UNGC Principles Report Heading Page No. Principle 7: Environment: Environmental Performance 66 Businesses should support Environmental Performance Material 66 a precautionary Environmental Performance Energy 73 approach to environmental Environmental Performance Water 78 challenges. Environmental Performance Emissions 74 Product Responsibility 105 Principle 8: Environmental Performance – Material 66 Environment Businesses Environmental Performance – Energy 73 should undertake initiatives to Environmental Performance – Water 78 promote greater Environmental Performance Biodiversity 77 environmental responsibility. Environmental Performance – Emissions 74 Environmental Performance Waste 79 Health & Safety 101 Product Responsibility 105 Sustainable Development Initiatives 46 Corporate Governance – Sustainable Sourcing 36 Sustainability Report 2015-16 Living by Our Core Values 125 UNGC Principles Linkage GRI Index Abbreviations UNGC Principles GRI Disclosures to report actions taken to implement UNGC Principles and outcomes from implementing UNGC Principles Report Heading Page No. Principle 9: Environment Businesses should encourage Environmental Performance – Energy 73 the development and diffusion of Environmental Performance – Emissions 74 environmentally friendly technologies. Product Responsibility 105 Principle 10: Anti-corruption Businesses should Corporate Governance 28 work against corruption Corporate Governance Integrity and Accountability 36 in all its forms, including extortion Corporate Governance Whistle Blower Policy 33 and bribery. Corporate Governance Corruption and 33 Anti-Competitive Behaviour Corporate Governance Human Rights 34 Sustainability Report 2015-16 Living by Our Core Values 126 Abbreviations UNGC Principles Linkage Abbreviations Sustainability Report 2015-16 Living by Our Core Values 127 Abbreviations UNGC Principles Linkage Sustainability Report 2015-16 Living by Our Core Values 128
