CA Technologies Sustainability Report Executive Summary 1 A Message from The CEO & The Chairman CA Technologies At CA Technologies, we believe that tomorrow’s successful companies will be Built to Change, Sustainability Report operating within a new paradigm in which software is central to everything they do. Against a Executive Summary backdrop of constant disruption, a business that’s Built to Change conforms with the new digital reality—a ​ reality where a company’s brand is defined by digital experiences, and where customers are more likely to experience a brand through a software app than a person. Built to Change companies embrace the concept of business agility, meaning the ability to automatically sense, react and adapt quickly to shifting market dynamics. Focusing on agility enables them to drive rapid, continuous improvement in customer experience to remain relevant in a marketplace characterized not only by fierce competition, but also by environmental and social challenges. The software we provide also drives agility for our customers by enabling them to easily optimize resources, minimize unnecessary expenditures and reduce energy use. These kinds of software solutions have contributed to a reduction in our own carbon footprint by approximately 36 percent since 2006, achieving our greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions reduction target four years ahead of our 2020 goal. Along with new opportunities, the Built to Change world brings new challenges. That’s why we develop solutions that help companies move into the next era, where software becomes more innovative and important than ever before. These solutions range from enhanced identity and access management to protect users’ information, to predictive analytics that improve customer insights. To help provide the technology leaders who are at the center of every company’s future, we’re working with other organizations, governments and NGOs to address the gap in science, technology, engineering and math, or STEM, skills. This includes the Tech Girls Rock initiative we created with Boys & Girls Clubs of America and CA’s support of the European Commission’s Digital Skills and Jobs Coalition through our Create Tomorrow program. When we look to the future, we see a new world where a fusion of technologies is blurring the lines between the physical, digital and biological spheres. We’re on the same path as our customers, harnessing technology investments to produce the best results and developing software that’s a central enabler of modern business, a catalyst that drives sustainability in every part of a company and the beginning of new solutions that will change how we live, work and communicate. And it all starts by being Built to Change. Mike Gregoire Art Weinbach Chief Executive Officer Chairman of the Board 2 Sustainable Development Goal Alignment CA Technologies At CA, we carefully consider our impact on the UN’s Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). Below, Sustainability Report we have outlined these goals based on their relevance to our operations and sustainability areas Executive Summary of focus. Primary/Core 4) Quality Education 5) Gender Equality 7) Affordable and Clean Energy 13) Climate Action 17) Partnerships for the Goals Quality Education and Gender Equality are core to CA’s commitments around diversity and education in STEM fields. CA is strongly committed to Affordable and Clean Energy, and Climate Action. Our company has historically sought out partnerships—​in nonprofits, NGOs and other companies—t​ o amplify our impact within our primary areas of concern. Secondary/Industry 8) Decent Work and Economic Growth 9) Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure 10) Reduced Inequalities These SDGs expand on our core areas of focus, impacting our industry and business directly. As a business, CA seeks to provide our employees and the communities in which we operate with Decent Work and Economic Growth. The progression of Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure leads to technological advances, which provide an opportunity for software and tech industries to create new employment opportunities. Reduced Inequalities focuses on socioeconomic disparity. As the tech industry evolves around the world, we have a responsibility to serve and uplift the communities in which we operate. Tertiary 1) No Poverty 2) Zero Hunger 3) Good Health and Well-Being 6) Clean Water and Sanitation 11) Sustainable Cities and Communities 12) Responsible Consumption and Production 14) Life Below Water 15) Life on Land 16) Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions While these SDGs are not directly relevant to our business and operations, we understand our impact and the ways technology can make a positive difference to society’s most pressing problems. 3 Operational Efficiency CA Technologies We continuously seek more efficient ways to run our business, from managing our energy use and Sustainability Report developing and maintaining smart facilities to reducing our greenhouse gas emissions. We also aim Executive Summary to contribute to our operating efficiencies by forming strategic alliances with business partners. Greenhouse Gas Emissions In 2012, CA committed to its first GHG reduction target of a 35 percent reduction by 2020, based on a 2006 baseline. In 2016, we reported the achievement of that target by reducing our own carbon footprint by approximately 36 percent. According to the Environmental Protection Agency, the reduction of 33,974 fewer metric tons of carbon emissions equates to taking 7,176 passenger cars off the road. Enabling Efficiency We view software as an enabler of business efficiency. It allows our customers to easily optimize resources and minimize unnecessary expenditures and energy use. Our solutions also improve IT availability, reduce risk, enhance agility and provide greater automation. These benefits enhance our customers’ ability to plan and prioritize their business efforts. In addition, CA software helps ensure that web and mobile applications are performing optimally and identifies bottlenecks through real-time reporting and comprehensive analytics. From monitoring energy supply and demand to streamlining the end-user experience, CA is very much in the business of energy efficiency. Smart Facilities Because facilities represent one of our largest environmental impacts, they are where we focus most of our own operational-efficiency efforts. Green Buildings. Energy-saving practices in our buildings has expanded greatly from the days of lighting efficiencies and building management. Now we combine telemetry with process automation to create bots, which we call “Dragons.” Our Dragons intelligently monitor demand and usage patterns and shut off and turn on servers based on usage patterns. They also protect our environment by helping us to continuously monitor configurations and achieve compliance, and by automating our disaster recovery processes. Water Management. Our data centers have closed-loop water systems and use minimal water. We reclaim close to 100 percent of rainwater from surfaces at our Hyderabad, India, facility and use it for our landscaping needs. In Islandia, NY, we collect and reuse as much of the rainwater that falls on the roofs of our parking garages as possible. We identified gaps and re-caulked where needed. Now, instead of water running through the garage, it’s being recirculated to our grass sprinkler system, cutting down on our municipal water demand. Waste Management. We have made a corporate-wide global commitment to minimize our impact on landfills by reducing, reusing and recycling. We support our regional facility managers in working with local waste haulers to find new opportunities to divert waste from landfills. Operational Continued 4 Efficiency CA Technologies Strategic Partnerships. Since 2010, CA has partnered with EDF Climate Corps, hosting a total of Sustainability Report eleven graduate-student fellows and earning CA status as one of only two Climate Corps Gold Executive Summary Hosts. Each year, CA’s Corporate Social Responsibility team works with our Facilities teams to identify potential projects and areas of improvement. We are then partnered with an EDF fellow that meets our needs, bringing a depth of knowledge and background specific to our project. EDF Climate Corps equips these fellows with technical training and tools to help CA further hone our operational efficiency. sRide Carpooling App in Hyderabad. sRide is an app that makes it easy to find safe and friendly ride partners. The app reduces traffic congestion and fuel consumption, and therefore limits harmful carbon dioxide emissions, all by harnessing the power of the local community. In just six months of using sRide to share car rides, CA Technologies Hyderabad went from sharing 40 rides (418 kilometers) to 7,327 rides (9,957 kilometers). That saved 1,991 kilograms of CO2, the equivalent of planting 95 trees. CA’s management in Hyderabad has taken an active role in supporting sRide and its Green Carpool initiative. Supply Chain Management. We use the power of collaboration to work with our vendors to ensure that they are committed to sustainable, ethical practices. We continually monitor related issues throughout our supply chain, and we determine the material impact, if any, of all suppliers. We require compliance to a Partner Code of Conduct that defines our expectations as a partner, and we are a signatory to the UN Global Compact. Our supplier agreements contain human rights clauses. 5 Employee Empowerment CA Technologies At CA, our employees are focused on removing the obstacles our customers face every day—t​ he Sustainability Report barriers between ideas and business outcomes. Every employee knows that when our customers win, Executive Summary we win. So they prioritize our customers’ needs and pride themselves on our ability to surprise and delight. At CA, employee empowerment means having groundbreaking ideas and the opportunity to pursue them. THRIVE: Workforce Diversity and Inclusion. Being built to change means continually adapting to compete. At CA, creativity and innovation are driven by our employees’ diversity of perspective, experience and thought. Combined with our inclusive workplace, this diversity helps our people and our business THRIVE. This workforce diversity and inclusion initiative has the following goals: Create the Best Place to Do Business by attracting, enabling and retaining a diverse workforce to win in our marketplaces, workplaces and communities across the world. Create the Best Workplace by leveraging an inclusive, flexible work environment that values uniqueness, and encourages and motivates employees to unleash their full potential. Recent THRIVE activities and accomplishments. We offer a flexible work environment that values and leverages uniqueness: • We allow 18 weeks of fully paid maternity leave and 12 weeks of paternity or non-birth parent leave. • We support all working parents with a range of benefits and programs that center around work/life balance, flexibility and opportunity. • Montessori Child Development Centers (with subsidized tuition) welcome children from six weeks to six years at select offices. • Women participate in our application-based Leadership Development Programs at a rate that is proportionate to overall company demographics. • CA utilizes a North American diversity candidate slate program that ensures that all open requisitions have at least one diverse candidate for consideration in the interview process. CA Technologies always hires the best candidate for a job, and this program has broadened our ability to do that. Since its implementation, more than 75 percent of our open job requisitions in North America have had a diverse slate of candidates. 6 Working at CA Technologies CA Technologies Every day at CA is an opportunity to shape tomorrow, and to create a career path that will take Sustainability Report you wherever your talent leads. CA offers an innovative and mentally stimulating environment Executive Summary that allows employees to balance their work and personal lives in a diverse culture where ideas are openly shared and respected. Our culture is fast-paced. Our teams are diverse. Our approach is collaborative. And we’re one of the best employers in the industry—w ​ ith the awards and recognition to prove it. Talent Development Leadership Development Programs. CA employees are thinkers, makers and disruptors who help us develop amazing products. They’re leaders for the future—​and we’ve developed our Leadership Development Program (LDP) for them. The LDP is designed to ensure that there are highly capable leaders at all levels of the organization. Here are highlights from our LDP in 2016: • 96% of participants indicated the program met or exceeded expectations • 94% of participants felt the program was a worthwhile investment in their career development (industry average 72%) • 87% of participants indicated that they can directly apply what they learned to their leadership journey Leaders at All Levels. Our award-winning Leaders at all Levels program and website provide employees with the tools and resources they need to develop key skills centered around our Mission and DNA. The program provides access to external and internal thought leadership and learning opportunities that increase the skill and engagement of leaders at all levels. #LifeAtCA. Our Instagram feed, #lifeatca, provides a good idea of what life at CA is like. Over the years, it has offered an inside look at everything from pets decked out in CA gear to our Adopt-AHighway sign in Florida. But life at CA is more than a hashtag—i​t’s about creating a more efficient, competitive and sustainable workforce by supporting both the professional and personal goals of our employees. Pet Benefits. Employees may take up to three fully paid days off for parent-pet bonding time when they adopt a new pet—a ​ s well as up to three fully paid days off to grieve or help deal with the loss of a pet. Employees who adopt a new pet also receive a CA-branded “new pet bundle” to welcome their newest addition to the CA family. Enhanced Leave Policy. Our Phase Back to Work process for the Maternity, Paternity and Adoption portions of our Family and Medical Leave (FML) policy enables employees to return to work gradually over a two-week period. 7 Customer Solutions CA Technologies CA Technologies customers around the globe use our software solutions to meet their business Sustainability Report challenges and create new market opportunities. Our solutions help customers throughout the Executive Summary agile development life cycle, enabling them to plan and prioritize development, develop and test, release and deploy, manage and monitor, and access and secure. To ensure our products’ effectiveness, we use our own solutions at CA. By developing tools to manage the availability and performance of the IT assets within traditional data centers and cloud environments, CA gives customers the ability to easily optimize the utilization of computing resources and minimize unnecessary expenditures, the effects of which are magnified when applied on a global scale. CA Project & Portfolio Management (CA PPM). Because research indicates that one out of every three projects fails to meet the expectations of management, we’ve undertaken an initiative to understand exactly what causes these projects to fail and to deliver an improved solution that is focused on ensuring project confidence across organizations. The solution is CA Project & Portfolio Management (CA PPM). We’re leveraging it to redefine how work is accomplished in the application economy by addressing how adaptive project managers can support their business and how business users can capture work details. This ensures confidence that the right level of work is captured and managed for budget, schedule and resource performance. Customer Experience (CX). A c ­ ustomer-­centric mind-set is at the heart of everything we do. Delivering a superior customer experience is an essential corporate goal and it is written into our promise to customers. A premier customer experience drives higher levels of loyalty, creates competitive differentiation and enables growth for CA. We also provide opportunities for non-­ customer-­facing employees to work with customers to help them live in customers’ shoes and understand what’s important in their world. Security and Privacy. To succeed in today’s digital world, businesses need to make sure users, employees and partners can access the data they need. But the more open you are, the more vulnerable you become to debilitating data breaches. Not with CA. Our end-to-end identity and access management security solutions give you the freedom to connect everyone to everything from everywhere—​along with the confidence that your critical corporate data is still safe and secure. With CA identity and access management solutions, you can create value, not vulnerability. API. An application programming interface (API) is a set of routines, protocols and tools for building software and applications. IT is beginning to see a shift toward a persona-defined user experience, as well as an architecture that is increasingly API-driven. Web APIs already play a critical role in connecting applications and services over the Internet. APIs are also used to launch innovative services and will power the next generation of mobile and Internet of Things (IoT) applications. At CA Technologies, we help companies accelerate their digital transformation with APIs by managing them from all perspectives: business strategy, design and architecture, governance and tooling—a ​ ll while providing the required levels of security. Customer Continued 8 Solutions CA Technologies Products That Promote Sustainability Sustainability Report Executive Summary As customers become more aware of the impact of IT on the environment and IT’s use of limited natural resources, they are increasingly looking for solutions that are more resource-efficient. In the context of software solutions, “sustainability” largely refers to solutions that have been designed and built to minimize the consumption of resources during development, operations and maintenance. At CA Technologies, we work to maximize opportunities for our customers’ IT operations by providing them with an efficient platform that limits resource use. Cloud Computing. Cloud solutions from CA Technologies help our customers speed development, deployment and testing, and reduce cloud management complexity while protecting them from outside threats. Our focus on making cloud computing more efficient and secure makes these operations more sustainable. Virtualization. Our CA Service Virtualization product reduces constraints across the software development life cycle, allowing developers, testers and performance teams to work in parallel for faster delivery and more reliable outcomes—​all while reducing hardware that uses floor space and has high energy demands for heating and cooling. SaaS. Software as a Service solutions from CA Technologies streamline deployments, increase agility, securely enable online business and benefit from our proven operational expertise within a secure service-delivery environment. Our solutions enable CA Technologies customers to gain optimal IT security and management capabilities while reducing the effort and cost of deploying an on-premise solution. 9 Corporate Social Responsibility CA Technologies CA Technologies is a global corporation with a local commitment. We work to improve the quality Sustainability Report of life in communities worldwide where our employees live and work, and are fully committed to Executive Summary advancing social, environmental and economic sustainability. CSR at CA Technologies. CA Together, our Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) program, is dedicated to improving the lives of underserved children and communities. We do this by supporting organizations, programs and initiatives that enrich the lives and well-being of people everywhere, with a primary focus on STEM (science, technology, engineering and math) education. STEM Education. As a tech company in a fast-paced world, we’re deeply invested in promoting the 21st-century skills that build, maintain and secure the digital world we now live in. Our investment in STEM helps our business in developing not only the next generation of software engineers and data and computer scientists, but also the technological skills needed to solve the world’s most pressing problems. This is a long-term investment by CA and we are committed to it. CA Together in Action. The company’s worldwide employee volunteer initiative, CA Together in Action, takes place during the week of Earth Day in April. CA Employees around the globe can take up to five paid business days a year to participate in a variety of community-based activities. Projects include supporting the advancement of STEM learning for young people, conducting environmental cleanups, building affordable housing and assisting food banks with feeding the hungry. Women in Technology. We know diverse perspectives are key to driving innovation and creativity. That’s why we encourage young women to enter the tech field and support our own workforce in realizing their professional goals. Product Donations. We offer our world-class software solutions and IT expertise to nonprofits worldwide. Our goal is to help charitable organizations better serve their beneficiaries by managing costs and improving efficiency. Matching Gifts. At CA, we’re proud to work with people who are driven to help others. Through our matching gifts program, employees can contribute to the nonprofit of their choice with a one-to-one company match of up to $10,000 each fiscal year. In FY 2017, the company matched more than $1.6 million in gifts to more than 1,700 organizations. Awards and Recognition • Inclusion in Global Compact 100 • Inclusion in 2016 Dow Jones Sustainability Indexes • Newsweek’s Top 100 Greenest Companies CA Technologies Sustainability Report • 2017 World’s Most Ethical Companies Executive Summary • 2017 Forbes’ America’s Best Employers • 2016 Working Mother’s 100 Best Companies • 2017 Fatherly’s Best Places to Work for New Dads • 2016 Computerworld’s Best Places to Work • 2016 HRC’s Best Places to Work for LGBT Equality Learn More To learn more about CA Technologies sustainability initiatives and products: ca.com/sustainability-report @CAinc facebook.com/CATechnologies instagram.com/lifeatca Contact Us CA Technologies 520 Madison Avenue, 22nd Floor New York, NY 10022 ca.com Copyright © 2017 CA Inc. All rights reserved. All trademarks, trade names, service marks and logos referenced herein belong to their respective companies.
