Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 2 Contents 1 Introduction Chairman and CEO statement 4 Our business 6 Our approach Our approach Material issues 8 to sustainability 2 to corporate Our responsibility 7 business Global Stakeholder 3 megatrends engagement 10 Material issues Inequality Consumption Clim 4 Jobs for Technology Housing chan and poverty the future Urbanisation Aging Financial and production population regulation needs Opportunity Initiatives Opportunity Initiatives Opportunity Initiatives Performance data Assurance How are these Education Education 18 Innovation 25 Good business 62 statement 76 impacting our Climate c Customer practice 31Financial Diversity Workforce Responsible Digital innovation, Macroeconomic risks and experience stability, wellbeing, lending, and demographic business? and inclusion opportun transparency conduct and investing and privacy and trends and disclosure culture procuring data security 5 Contact us 77 Innovation Education Innovation Good Business Practice How are we responding? #1 Teach children #2 Help prepare #3 Use our #4 Mirror our #5 Contribute to #6 Listen to #7 Lend, invest 6 #8 Play o the value of for the workforce innovation community’s our communities and balance and procure Good in limitin money of the future capability to diversity and stakeholder responsibly, business change t empower people, role model needs managing risks practice degrees businesses and Reconciliation across the This report The report structure is aligned with Opportunity Initiatives, Our non-financial reporting is presented in accordance with thecommunities Global The data in the performance data section (pg. 62-75) has been assured supply chain our plan to drive positive change through education, innovation and good Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards – core option. The GRI Index is by PwC. A copy of the Assurance Report is on page 76. The full set of our business practice, and shows progress against each of our eight Initiatives available on our website www.commbank.com.au/investors/corporateperformance data is also available on our website. 7 Commonwealth Bank of Australia Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 and the targets we have set ourselves, including our management approach responsibility.html and performance in light of our material issues. This report is part of our 2017 reporting suite. The financial disclosures are The scope of our 2017 Corporate Responsibility Report covers the available in Commonwealth Bank’s Annual Report, Dividend Announcement Performance Commonwealth Bank Group’s global operations, unless otherwise stated, and Appendix 4E. and over which we have had operational control, for the 2017 financial year commencing on 1 July 2016 to 30 June 2017. Our risks are listed in the Business Risks section of the Annual Report. data Commonwealth Bank of Australia Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 3 Business overview Our vision and commitment is to excel at securing and enhancing the financial wellbeing of people, businesses and communities, and our values of integrity, 1 Introduction accountability, collaboration, excellence and service guide us toward achieving this. The Commonwealth Bank specialist business areas offer insurance, superannuation, financial advice, share trading and funds management to more than 16.6 million customers both in Australia and overseas. 2 The Commonwealth Bank brand is the most recognised brand in the Australian financial services industry and has a growing Our international presence. business Since our beginnings in 1911 as a bank for Australians, CBA Group 3 Commonwealth Bank of Australia has been providing Material issues financial services for people, businesses and communities across the country. Today, we have grown to become one of the world’s leading financial institutions, providing 4 retail, private, business, institutional banking, and wealth Banking management services in 11 countries around the world. Education Commonwealth Bank Group in numbers 5 Innovation Insurance Securities 6 Good 1,350 4,991 200,000+ 6.2m business practice branches ATMs EFTPOS terminals online customers Investment 7 Performance data Commonwealth Bank of Australia Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 4 Chairman and CEO statement 1 Introduction We have continued to provide support for, and are building our capabilities internally to better deal with, our customers who are experiencing financial hardship, domestic violence 2 and financial abuse. Our work is paving the way in Australia Our for other organisations to get on board and make a real business difference to people’s lives. This year we launched our first Financial Inclusion Action Plan, Welcome to our 2017 Corporate and through a partnership with Domestic Violence NSW have Responsibility Report released Addressing Financial Abuse, a resource guide to help people affected by financial abuse navigate to financial 3 Guided by our vision to excel at securing and enhancing the independence. Material financial wellbeing of people, businesses and communities issues We have also formalised our response to climate change this and focusing on our long term strategy we continue to deliver year. As a major bank we participate in nearly every sector strong value to our many stakeholders in an ever changing in the economy, including a growing renewables sector, and environment. with a strong due diligence approach to Environmental, Social The financial sector has been under a heightened level of scrutiny in the past year. Trust is critical to our business and and Governance (ESG) considerations we continue to make balanced and considered decisions. Our first Climate Policy 4 Education we work hard to deliver value not just to our customers and Position Statement outlines how we intend to support the shareholders but also to the communities that we are a opportunities associated with responding to climate change part of. – including committing to a $15 billion low carbon target by 2025, and undertaking a scenario analysis. Improving our customer remediation has been a priority for us this year, and while embedding genuine change takes Moving forward, we see open engagement with our time, we have implemented some significant reforms through our own initiatives and also working jointly with the Australian stakeholders as essential to understand and respond to the issues that our stakeholders consider material. This year 5 Innovation Bankers Association. Some of our key reforms include our we have continued to engage with our stakeholders and approach to whistleblowers, the appointment of a customer created new forums, both internal and external, to ensure advocate and a new background check protocol for potential there are appropriate channels for issues and opportunities employees which comes into force on 1 July 2017. to be raised, discussed and fed back into our strategic and operational processes for next year and beyond. There are areas that we are incredibly proud to have been a driving force of – for example, our involvement in education. Through all our initiatives and hard work, we are creating a more sustainable and valuable organisation. 6 For more than 85 years we have been encouraging a saving Good mindset amongst our youth through our School Banking business program and over the last year more than 574,000 students practice have completed one of our in-school financial education programs, Start Smart. Catherine Livingstone AO Chairman 7 Performance Ian Narev Chief Executive Officer data Commonwealth Bank of Australia Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 5 Business snapshot – FY17 1 1 Introduction 2 Our business 51,800 $3.9bn $6.3bn $1.6m Quantum $1.5m total number of employees tax expense salaries cybersecurity partnership with University of NSW computing simulator developed this year spent with Indigenous suppliers 3 Material issues 4 CO2 Education $2.8bn $1.02bn 2,768 48.5% 574,246 $16m+ 5 lending to renewable climate bonds arranged reduction in our direct students enrolled in Start investment in education energy projects employees have been trained emissions in Australia Innovation Smart, our financial education on responsible lending, since 2009 program for youth investing and procurement 6 Good business practice 44% $272m $1.2m 168,218 $900,000 6,000+ 7 women in Manager total community in-kind volunteering calls to our Indigenous to enhance the skills of customers provided with and above roles investment Customer Assistance Line financial counsellors hardship assistance Performance contributed by employees every month data Commonwealth Bank of Australia Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 1 Unless otherwise stated, these figures are for FY17 6 Our business and how we contribute to Australia By remaining a strong and profitable financial organisation, Commonwealth Bank plays a critical role in the economy. We are proud of the contribution we make – from the dividends we pay to shareholders to support their financial 1 Introduction wellbeing, to the billions in taxes and salaries we pay. We have also maintained our commitment to investing in $6.3bn innovation to ensure that we continue to support long-term growth, opportunities and prosperity. 2 Salaries Our Business • we employ 51,800 people in 11 countries • 41,600 are employed in Australia • we employ 1 in every 10 people working in the Australian financial services sector 3 $7.4bn Material Dividends issues $4.8bn 24% • 75% of profits were returned to Expenses shareholders 18% • includes payments to more than 5,000 SME partners • the average retail shareholder will receive approximately 4 and suppliers $3,820 in dividends this year Education • 90% of our suppliers are • a  lmost 800,000 retail Australian businesses shareholders hold CBA shares directly, millions more hold • 1,350 branches CBA shares through their 29% superannuation funds 15% 5 $3.9bn 10% Tax expense this year Innovation • we are Australia’s largest taxpayer $2.5bn Reinvested • our tax expense in FY17 is equivalent to 6 hospitals 6 or 260 schools • we reinvest profit back into our business to make it better for • we have signed the Voluntary Tax Transparency Code our customers Good 4% business practice $1.1bn 7 Loan impairment • the cost of lending across the economy Performance data Commonwealth Bank of Australia Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 7 Our approach to corporate responsibility 1 Introduction 2 Global Our Business megatrends 3 Material Issues Inequality Consumption Climate Jobs for Housing change and poverty Technology Urbanisation Ageing Financial and production the future needs population regulation How do these 4 affect our Climate change Education Customer Financial Workforce Responsible Digital Macroeconomic risks and Diversity innovation, business? experience stability, wellbeing, lending, and demographic opportunities and inclusion transparency conduct and privacy and trends investing and and disclosure culture procuring data security 5 Education Innovation Good Business Practice Innovation How are we 6 responding? Good business practice #1 Teach children #2 Help prepare #3 Use our #4 Mirror our #5 Contribute to #6 Listen to #7 Lend, invest #8 Play our role the value of the workforce innovation community’s our communities and balance and procure in limiting climate money of the future capability to diversity and stakeholder responsibly change to two empower people, role model needs degrees 7 businesses and Reconciliation communities Performance data Commonwealth Bank of Australia Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 8 Material issues 1 Introduction In order to heighten the value 2 of the contribution we make to Our business society, we continually review and consider emerging issues 3 and changing stakeholder Material issues expectations to ensure our material issues list is up to date. 4 Our material issues list is Education informed by: • Sustainability reporting frameworks such as Global Reporting Initiative and the Sustainability Accounting Standard Board 5 Innovation • Issues considered material on a global scale with reports such as the World Economic Forum Global Risk Report and new developments such as the Sustainable Development Goals • Media coverage of key issues 6 Good • Stakeholder engagement business • Survey of key internal stakeholders practice • ESG analyst questions and reporting • Material issues identified by our domestic and international peers 7 Performance data Commonwealth Bank of Australia Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 9 Material issues continued 1 Introduction Material issues and how we are managing them Material issue Definition GRI Boundary How we are addressing the issue 2 Our Customer experience Customers are at the centre of everything we do and their Within/external • Annual Report experience includes satisfaction, protection and remediation. business • Corporate Responsibility Report Diversity and inclusion Diversity and inclusion are an integral part of our culture, values Within • Opportunity Initiative #4 3 and the way we do business. It offers tangible benefits for our employees, customers, shareholders and the communities we • Performance data operate in. Material Financial stability, transparency and disclosure Financial stability and performance is important to the long term Within/external • Chairman and CEO statement issues operation of the Group. We want to be open and transparent about our performance, and how we go about our business. • Annual Report • Corporate Responsibility Report • Performance data 4 Workforce wellbeing, conduct and culture Maintaining the highest professional standards is critical in Within/external • Opportunity Initiative #4 Education maintaining the trust of our stakeholders. Workforce wellbeing is paramount to the success of our organisation and being able to • Opportunity Initiative #6 deliver our vision. Responsible lending, investing and procuring Ensuring our policies and processes consider ESG issues and Within/external • Opportunity Initiative #7 allow us to lend, invest and procure in a manner that mitigates reputation, credit and operational risks. 5 Innovation Digital innovation, privacy and data security Developing innovative products and services supports better Within • Annual Report money management and financial inclusion. As a large financial institution, privacy and data security is critical. • Opportunity Initiative #1 • Opportunity Initiative #3 Macroeconomic and demographic trends Monitoring macroeconomic and demographic trends will help us External • Chairman and CEO statement to tailor our products and services to meet societal needs now and into the future. These trends also influence the economic • Annual Report 6 Good outlook which influences our financial performance. • Corporate Responsibility Report business practice Climate change risks and opportunities Climate change will require a transition to a net zero emissions Within/external • Opportunity Initiative #8 economy by 2050. We want to support the transition, and associated opportunities, and mitigate climate related risks. 7 Performance data Commonwealth Bank of Australia Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 10 Stakeholder engagement We use a range of indicators to understand the success of our engagement and inform adjustments 1 Introduction to our interactions, as well as our day to day initiatives, policies and processes. 2 Our business One of our commitments under Opportunity Initiatives We have a range of forums dedicated to advancing our stakeholder engagement which include: is to build transparent stakeholder engagement policies and processes to encourage ongoing open dialogue. 3 Material This year we have developed a Stakeholder Engagement External Memberships and affiliations issues Approach, in line with the AA1000 AccountAbility Stakeholder Engagement Standard and ‘Our Commitments’1, which sets • CEO External Advisory Panel • Australian Bankers’ Association clear expectations for our employees for engaging with and • Customer Advocate Community Council • Australian Human Rights Commission’s balancing the interests of stakeholders. 4 Leadership Council in Cultural Diversity • Indigenous Advisory Council The objectives of our Stakeholder Engagement Approach are to: • Australian Network on Disability Education • Enrich our partnerships with stakeholders and enhance our • Australian Portfolio Carbon Working Group community participation Internal • Business Council of Australia • Listen, understand and respond to stakeholder perspectives • Regular meetings across the organisation to and expectations, and ensure the broader business hears share stakeholder insights and issues, and • Clean Energy Council these perspectives inform reporting including: • Use insights from our stakeholders to understand risks • Community Affairs Stakeholder Council • Diversity Council of Australia • Equator Principles and Equator Principles 5 and opportunities, informing our operational and strategic Innovation • Opportunity Initiatives Council Association Steering Committee improvements, including products and services • Financial Services Council The way we engage reflects the different groups, their prominence and preferences. The Stakeholder Engagement • Male Champions of Change Approach sets out our stakeholders and the ways we will • Pride in Diversity engage with them. On the following pages, we have also identified some of the key topics our stakeholders are • Transparency International 6 interested in. Good • UN Environment Programme Finance business Initiative practice • UN Global Compact • UN Women 7 Performance data Commonwealth Bank of Australia Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 1 More information on ‘Our Commitments’ is on page 44 11 Stakeholder engagement continued 1 Introduction Stakeholder group Customers Stakeholder group Employees Stakeholder group Investors 2 Our business Topic and engagement mechanism Topic and engagement mechanism Topic and engagement mechanism Ongoing reviews of satisfaction, feedback and complaints related to Ongoing reviews of employee engagement and feedback culture, Ongoing discussions regarding performance and performance products, service and inclusion: • Multi-channel engagement, including face-to-face customer strategy and priorities through: • Group wide surveys related matters through: • Financial and non-financial reporting 3 engagement • Ad hoc surveys • Briefings Material • Independent and proprietary customer surveys • Digital and social platforms • Meetings issues • Customer workshops • Team meetings and exercises • Annual General Meeting • Community group surveys • Employee events and Town Halls • Surveys 4 • Customer advocate • CEO and Group Executive mailboxes • Call centres and complaints channels • SpeakUP Hotline Key topics raised Education • Social media • Financial performance • Engagement with customer representatives and bodies Key topics raised • Business strategy • Meetings with relationship managers • Health, safety and wellbeing • ESG issues • Meetings with advisers • Performance and reward 5 • External dispute resolution • Group strategy and policies How we are responding? • Culture, diversity and inclusion Our response to these topics can be found as part of our Innovation Key topics raised Opportunity Initiatives 3, 4, 6, 7 and 8 and as part of our broader • Customer service How we are responding? reporting including our results reporting, Annual Report and our investor briefings. • Credit and disputed transactions Our response to these topics can be found as part of our • Financial inclusion Opportunity Initiatives 3, 6, 7 and 8 and as part of our broader reporting suite, including our Annual Report. 6 • Community engagement • Loan servicing and hardship • Interest fees Good business • Self-service branches practice • Cybersecurity/fraud How we are responding? Our response to these topics can be found as part of our 7 Opportunity Initiatives 3, 6, 7 and 8 and as part of our broader reporting suite, including our Annual Report. Performance data Commonwealth Bank of Australia Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 12 Stakeholder engagement continued 1 Introduction Stakeholder group Suppliers Stakeholder group Government and Regulators Stakeholder group Media 2 Our business Topic and engagement mechanism Topic and engagement mechanism Topic and engagement mechanism Ongoing discussions related to commercials, standards Ongoing discussions related to the financial services industry, Ongoing discussions related to topics of interest through: and issues through: • Supplier meetings, briefings and workshops reform and advocacy through: • Meetings • Phone calls, meetings and emails 3 • Dedicated phone line and email inbox Material • Risk assessments • Submissions/proposals • Briefings and media releases issues • SpeakUP Hotline • Commissions and inquiries • Digital and social channels • Innovation programs • Financial institution associations • Supplier Code of Conduct and Sustainability Questionnaire Key topics raised • Supplier surveys Key topics raised • Banking reform • Bank levy • Conduct and culture 4 Education Key topics raised • Major banks inquiry • Parliamentary inquiries • Business strategy • Open data • Financial results • Business opportunities • Innovation in financial services • Financial markets • Performance and compliance • Retail banking • Commercials • Risk identification and management How we are responding? We continue to work with government and regulators on an ongoing • Business banking • Institutional banking 5 Innovation • Innovation basis. Public submissions are available at the relevant inquiry • Technology websites. • Innovation How we are responding? • ESG Our response to these topics can be found as part of our • Indigenous Affairs Opportunity Initiatives 3, 4 and 7. • Education 6 • Financial inclusion Good • Diversity and inclusion business practice How we are responding? Our response to these topics can be found in our broader reporting suite including our Annual Report as well as through Opportunity Initiatives 1 to 8. 7 Performance data Commonwealth Bank of Australia Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 13 1 Introduction Stakeholder group Charities, community organisations Stakeholder group Service providers and 2 and non-governmental organisations academics Our business Topic and engagement mechanism Topic and engagement mechanism Ongoing discussions related to customer assistance, sustainability, Ongoing discussions related to a variety topics of interest and education, diversity, disaster relief, charity partnerships and other areas of interest through: research partnerships through: • Meetings, email and phone calls. 3 • Participation on a range of external advisory panels Material • Industry memberships issues Key topics raised • Ongoing meetings with partner and non-partner organisations • Education • Phone calls, meetings and emails • STEM • Sponsorship of, and participation in, events, summits and forums. • Financial wellbeing • Diversity and inclusion 4 Education Key topics raised • Workplace giving • Climate change and responsible lending • Behavioural economics • Financial inclusion • Education How we are responding? • Workplace giving • Volunteering Our response to these topics can be found as part of our Opportunity Initiatives 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 and 6. 5 Innovation • Charitable donations and programs How we are responding? Our response to these topics can be found as part of our Opportunity Initiatives 1, 2, 4, 5, 6, 7 and 8. 6 Good business practice 7 Performance data Commonwealth Bank of Australia Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 14 Transparent disclosure of performance 1 Introduction Corporate Responsibility Disclosures 2 We have released an extensive range of disclosures Our regarding our corporate responsibility performance this year, many of which are annual updates. business These include: To help drive best practice performance we benchmark Governance our progress against a number of leading global sustainability indices and surveys including: Corporate responsibility is governed by the 3 Board and the Executive Committee. Material Global 100 Index (G100) In 2017, the Group ranked sixth in • The Board is responsible for establishing, in conjunction issues Opportunity Initiatives Assessed emissions in the world, making it the number one Australian company and number three bank in the world in the G100 with management, the corporate responsibility strategy in scorecard update business lending portfolio support of the Group’s vision and overseeing and monitoring for FY15 and FY16 the effectiveness of that strategy; and for approving the ESG Dow Jones Sustainability Index In 2017 the Group improved its performance and was again public disclosures in the annual and corporate responsibility reports. 4 Education included in the World Index • The Executive Committee directs the development and implementation of the corporate responsibility strategy, ESG policies and strategic initiatives, ensures adequate ESG Equator Principles III 2017 CFSGAM CDP governance is in place throughout the business; and oversees reporting Responsible Investment In 2016, the Group improved its performance and achieved a ESG progress, performance and reporting. 5 and Stewardship Report score of ‘A-’ • Business Units are responsible for integrating ESG considerations, risks and opportunities into business and risk Innovation FTSE4Good Index management policies and processes and report on progress. The Group continues to be included in the Index, which measures the performance of companies demonstrating • The Corporate Responsibility team provides strategic advice strong ESG practices to the Group and individual Business Units on ESG issues, oversees ESG governance and facilitates ESG reporting CDP Slavery and Human internally and externally. submission Trafficking Statement • In addition, we have two advisory bodies, i) the External 6 Subsidiary reporting Advisory Panel and ii) the Opportunity Initiatives Council. Good The External Advisory Panel is chaired by our CEO with four business Other brands within the Group have started to explore their own practice prominent members of the Australian community. The purpose corporate responsibility reporting, with ASB and Sovereign, of the Panel is to provide structured input and challenge from our New Zealand based companies, both producing standalone community representatives on issues including consumer Reconciliation Tax transparency Sustainability Reports. advocacy, education, diversity and inclusion and broader Action Plan code sustainability. The Opportunity Initiatives Council is comprised of senior staff nominated by the Executive Committee. Council 7 Performance In coming months we will also release our first performance members advise, action and advocate on a broad range of report on our 2016-2017 Financial Inclusion Action Plan. corporate responsibility issues and associated targets. data Commonwealth Bank of Australia Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 15 Opportunity Initiatives – our corporate responsibility plan 1 Introduction 2 Our business We take a long-term approach to everything we do. Through initiatives and programs that assist our customers, engage our people, support our communities 3 and lessen the impact we have on the environment, Material we continue to deliver on our vision. issues We play an important role in enabling economic and social development, supporting jobs, driving innovation and creating opportunities. Every day we make a positive difference to the financial 4 wellbeing of people, businesses and communities. We look Education after savings and investments, help people buy a house or a business, insure lives and property, help businesses manage risks, and help people prepare for and enjoy retirement. As Australia’s largest company, we also need to think beyond what we do every day to strengthen the community around us for the long term. Education Innovation Good Business 5 We create shareholder value by conducting our business Innovation through a balanced lens which includes economic, social Practice and environmental considerations. Through our education, We use our innovation Like many aspects of our business, we know we will have financial and digital capability to empower By focusing on good the greatest impact if we choose to work on a few things and literacy programs, we people, businesses and business practice, do them well. Taking into account the views of our stakeholders and our material issues, we launched Opportunity Initiatives, help people acquire the communities, improving we use our influence 6 our corporate responsibility plan, with a focus on the three skills our economy and social outcomes and and impact to support Good pillars of education, innovation and good business practice. society needs financial wellbeing positive social, business practice Under these three pillars sit eight Opportunity Initiatives with a through our products, environmental and number of targets and commitments that drive our action, services and programs economic outcomes against which we have made significant progress. 7 Performance data Commonwealth Bank of Australia Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 16 Opportunity Initiatives Scorecard 2017 Key: 1 Introduction PLANNING UNDERWAY ACHIEVED As the interests, priorities and concerns of our stakeholders evolve, so too will our initiatives and targets. Over time we will set new goals and benchmarks to drive sustainable value, support our 2 Our vision and drive positive change for all our stakeholders. business 5 7 Opportunity from education Opportunity from innovation Contribute to our Lend, invest and procure responsibly 1 3 Use our innovation capability communities Teach children the value of money to empower people, businesses and communities Release new workplace giving strategy in 2017 Progress the implementation of our nine ESG lending 3 commitments and provide ongoing transparent 346,000 students participating in School Banking Ongoing reporting and development of new indicators disclosures. Continue to drive Cleantech Fintech Material issues 6 of success innovations. Listen to and balance 54% school students saving regularly (3+ times p.a.) stakeholder needs Ongoing development of programs which Ongoing reporting of employees completing support innovation, including the release Release Stakeholder Engagement policy Responsible Investment training; CFSGAM’s external Additional 1.5 million students enrolled in Start Smart by 2018 of the Business Innovation Index PRI benchmark assessment 4 Reporting on stakeholder interactions introduced Education Ongoing quality outputs from partnerships Ongoing reporting of ESG issues identified in the 10,000 Indigenous students completing financial literacy supply chain programs delivered with AIME by 2020 Launch ethics training in 2017 Opportunity from 8 good business practice 2 Launch overarching code of conduct In 2017 Play our role in limiting Help prepare the 5 4 climate change to 2 degrees workforce of the future Mirror our community’s diversity and role model Creation of Group Customer Advocacy Innovation Reconciliation Climate change review complete and release position $16m + investment in education in 2017 and Remediation team statement in 2017 40% women in Executive Manager and above positions by 2020 Continue to support customers experiencing hardship Expand Learning Impact Fund research Property strategy – 2020 targets: project contribution in FY17 Reduce Scope 1 and 2 carbon emissions (domestic 6 1.5% CBA’s workforce Indigenous by 2020 Release Financial Inclusion Action Plan in 2016 operational control) Engage 8,000 teachers in FY17 through Evidence for Learning Match the cultural diversity of our senior leaders to the Good Ongoing implementation of domestic violence initiatives 2.0tCO2 per full time employee, per year cultural diversity of the Australian population by 2020 for employees, customers and the community business practice Expand presence and impact of Teaching Awards in partnership with Australian Schools Plus 100% of NLA commercial offices NABERS rated Implement RAP actions 7 80% of NLA commercial offices Green Star rated Grow number of employees completing Indigenous cultural awareness training Performance 100% of new retail spaces built to 5 Star Green Star rating data Commonwealth Bank of Australia Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 17 Opportunity Initiatives and the 1 UN Global Compact Introduction 2 Our business Demonstrating our progress on, and commitment to, We have mapped the SDGs that we are most directly contributing to through Opportunity Initiatives. corporate responsibility is increasingly important not 3 only for our own people and community partners, but also for our customers, shareholders and investors. #1 Material Teach children the value of money issues Our Corporate Responsibility Report and our Annual Report provide a comprehensive view of both our non-financial and financial performance annually. #2 The Group is a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) and committed to communicating progress on Help prepare the workforce of the future 4 integrating the UNGC principles covering human rights, labour, environmental and anti-corruption matters. #3 Use our innovation capability to empower people, businesses Education We actively consider key developments such as the Sustainable Development Goals and communities (SDGs) to evolve and refine our approach to corporate responsibility. We have again this year mapped our existing programs #4 Mirror our community’s diversity and role model Reconciliation 5 of work to the SDGs. The relevant SDGs Innovation are identified against each of the eight Opportunity Initiatives. In future years we will continue to review our strategy and programs of work in light of the SDGs. #5  Contribute to our communities As a major financial services organisation, our approach to supporting the SDGs is to focus on those areas where our impact is most material. #6  6 Listen to and balance stakeholder needs Good business practice #7  Lend, invest and procure responsibly 7 #8 Play our role in limiting climate change to 2 degrees Performance data Commonwealth Bank of Australia Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 18 Education 1 Introduction Empowering customers, businesses 2 and communities through our Our Business education, financial and digital literacy programs. 3 Material Issues 4 Education 5 Innovation 6 Good business practice 7 Performance data Commonwealth Bank of Australia Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 19 Opportunity from 2017 achievements 1 Introduction Education We know education outcomes have a profound effect on personal success, economic growth, $16 million+ invested 2 improved health and social engagement. in education in 2017 Our That’s why we made a 25-year commitment to business Business investing in education, starting with a $50 million commitment over three years (2015-18). 50% of school students 3 1 Material saving regularly through School Banking Issues issues Teach children the value of money $571,000 distributed in 4 Education education research grants 2 Help prepare the workforce of the future 574,246 students participated in a Start Smart financial education program 12 teachers 5 6 Good Innovation business each awarded a $45,000 Fellowship practice 7 Performance data Commonwealth Bank of Australia Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 20 Education continued 1 Introduction 2 Our business #1 Teach children Start Smart Start Smart is an award-winning free financial education Start Smart Virtual Reality – 3 ‘The Teleporter Adventures’ the value of money program that provides engaging and interactive workshops, run by expert facilitators, to primary, secondary and VET Material issues Australia’s National Financial Literacy Strategy (Vocational Education and Training) students. It is the world’s details the importance of parents’ involvement in largest face-to-face financial literacy program and has reached Education builds capability and through more than 2.5 million Australian children since the program their children’s learning about money from an early age. Research indicates that most children form our financial education programs we can 4 launched in 2007. money habits by the time they are seven years old. help Australian children understand the In the past 12 months, we have enrolled 574,246 students in Despite this, findings show only about one in six value of money management and long Education Start Smart, bringing the total to 1.1 million against our 1.5 parents discuss finances with their kids1. million students by 2018 target. Start Smart workshops are term financial wellbeing. run by specially trained, full-time facilitators to affect the four To address this, we undertook a two-month trial to determine whether virtual reality technology combined variables that influence financial decisions and behaviours: with a storybook in a student’s home would encourage attitude, knowledge, self-efficacy and behavioural intent. 346,000 students participating in School Banking parent-child discussions on financial topics. We released the Start Smart Evaluation Report 2016, endorsed by the Australian Council for Educational Research, which drew About 1,500 students, from 24 different primary schools from metropolitan, regional and rural locations 5 54% school students saving regularly (3+ times p.a.) Innovation on surveys of more than 11,000 students and 8,000 teachers participated in the Start Smart Virtual Reality pilot, and showed that Start Smart is having a positive impact. Key which we called The Teleporter Adventures. Additional 1.5 million students enrolled in Start Smart by 2018 findings included that 96 per cent of students found Start Smart relevant to their lives and 63 per cent of students applied what At each of the participating schools, Year 1 or Year they had learnt in the workshop in the month following the 2 students undertook a Start Smart lesson in their 10,000 Indigenous students completing financial literacy programs session. classrooms and were given a children’s storybook called delivered with AIME by 2020 The full evaluation report is available on our website Sammy the Space Koala, and a virtual reality headset, called The Teleporter to take home. Focused on teaching 6 Good children the difference between needs and wants, the ‘The most wonderful outcome of this feedback found that 93% of children that didn’t know the business practice experience was my 6 year old explaining difference before engaging with the Start Smart Virtual to me the difference between needs and Reality did so after completing the experience. wants. Priceless!’ – Parent of Start Smart Virtual Reality participant 1 ASIC, Australian Financial Attitudes and Behaviour Tracker, August 2015 7 Performance data Commonwealth Bank of Australia Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 21 Education continued 326,146 1 Introduction students participating in School Banking (minimum of one School Banking deposit in 12 months) 50% 2 of school students saving regularly (3+ per annum) Our business School Banking Our School Banking program, supported by parents and Teaching real-life money skills to 3 under 14s – CommBank Youth App schools, has been teaching children lifelong money and saving Material skills since 1931. The program is offered on an opt-in basis to issues both schools and parents. This year we have released the CommBank Youth App which gives under 14s hands-on money Its main purpose is to provide young children with a basic management experience that’s fun and secure. understanding of core financial values and money management The CommBank Youth App will help young customers skills, to help them take their first steps towards good money management and regular savings behaviour. develop their skills in an increasingly cashless and digital society. 4 Education We are currently tracking under plan for students participating in School Banking and the percentage of school students saving Some of the features include: regularly. • Check account balance and transactions at a glance Financial literacy for Indigenous students • Set a savings goal, track progress and celebrate with We are supporting an ongoing partnership with Australian Indigenous Mentoring Experience (AIME), currently working to a virtual high five when the goal’s been reached 5 Innovation deliver a financial literacy program at their Tutor Squads. The • Prompts before transferring or spending money program will reach 10,000 Indigenous students over the next • Create a list of chores/jobs and tick them off and pay five years. pocket money as you go • See Dollarmites tokens balance if participating in 6 School Banking Good business practice 7 Performance data Commonwealth Bank of Australia Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 22 Education continued Instead of holding physical notes and coins, Clever Kash displays the 1 child’s bank account balance digitally Introduction by interacting with the ASB Mobile banking app. 2 Our business Global Inclusion Awards: Child and Youth Clever Kash Friendly Banking Award In New Zealand, ASB launched Clever Kash, a financial literacy 3 This year we were awarded the Child and Youth Friendly tool that aims to get children actively engaged in saving, using Material Banking Award for our School Banking, Youthsaver, Start Smart a digital approach. Instead of holding physical notes and coins, issues and Virtual Reality innovation. Clever Kash displays the child’s bank account balance digitally by interacting with the ASB Mobile banking app. Parents ‘swipe’ The Child and Youth Friendly Banking Award acknowledges virtual notes and coins from their phone to the display on Clever the accomplishments of financial service providers who are Kash. The screen on Clever Kash’s tummy keeps count and pioneering innovative and original Child and Youth Friendly Banking Products, combined with an education component, shows the child’s progress towards their savings goals. Clever Kash has won a number of creativity and innovation awards. 4 Education delivered through a variety of media channels and employing a variety of learning methodologies. 5 Innovation CANSTAR Youth Banking award for the seventh year running 6 Good CANSTAR Junior Banking award business for the second year running practice 7 Performance data Commonwealth Bank of Australia Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 23 Education continued $16 million+ 1 Introduction invested in education in 2017 We have reached our target investment in education through our continued focus 2 on impactful programs and partnerships, Our in particular through Start Smart, the business Commonwealth Bank Teaching Awards delivered in partnership with Australian Schools Plus and continued investment #2 Help prepare the Support for evidence-based education The aim of the Evidence for Learning initiative, which we’re in Evidence for Learning. 3 workforce of the future undertaking in partnership with Social Ventures Australia, is to support and enable a nation-wide culture of evidence-informed Material issues practice by teachers, school leaders and education systems. The partnership comprises two key components: We believe better schools mean a better 4 The Australian Teaching & Learning Toolkit, a worldcountry and by supporting educators class online resource that assesses, then summarises, global research into a range of educational approaches: from the through access to best practice, Education value of technology to class size and the importance of different evidence-based insights and recognising subjects. There are more than 10,000 frequent users visiting the excellence in teaching and school website four or more times a year. leadership, we are helping prepare The Learning Impact Fund provides grants to education the workforce of the future. 5 program developers to partner with Australian research institutions to calculate the efficacy of their product or program. $16m + investment in education in 2017 This research feeds back into the global evidence pool and Innovation also generates plain English reports for schools to use. The Expand Learning Impact Fund research fund has to date invested $1.63 million in trials that are running project contribution in FY17 in 215 schools with more than 11,000 students and this year it distributed $571,000 across three different research trials. 6 Engage 8,000 teachers in FY17 through Evidence for Learning Good Expand presence and impact of Teaching Awards in business partnership with Australian Schools Plus practice Evidence for Learning. Photographer Vikki Foord. 7 Performance data Commonwealth Bank of Australia Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 24 Education continued 12 teachers 1 Introduction each awarded a $45,000 Fellowship 2 Our business Commonwealth Bank Teaching Awards Teachers and school leaders from all sectors of the Australian schools system – government, Catholic and Independent – can High-quality teaching is the greatest 3 in-school influence on student High-quality teaching is the greatest in-school influence on apply or be nominated for the Awards. Applications for the 2018 Material student engagement and outcomes. The Commonwealth Bank Commonwealth Bank Teaching Awards will open later this year. engagement and outcomes. issues Teaching Awards recognise and reward 12 great educators, especially those working in challenging and socially-diverse Meet the 2017 fellows on our website communities, who transform students’ lives. The 12 recipients were awarded a $45,000 Teaching Fellowship each, which covers: Teaching Fellow: Sarah Mathews 4 Education Brisbane Bayside State College (QLD) $10,000 In 2008, Dr Sarah Mathews took a big risk, leaving behind her 17-year career as a scientist to become a high school maths and science teacher at Brisbane for the recipients professional development 5 Bayside State College. Through her analysis of NAPLAN trends, Sarah Innovation observed that many students had limited numeracy $5,000 ability. This led her to develop a numeracy committee that introduced the evidence-based practice of ‘numeracy moments’ – a program that enriches for participation in a 12-month fellowship program mathematical thinking by incorporating mathematics that includes a study tour to a high-performing 6 into real-life situations. education system overseas Since the launch of the initiative in 2013, there has been a marked improvement in students’ problem solving Good $30,000 and reasoning skills and a significant improvement in the College’s NAPLAN numeracy results. business practice to fund a strategic project in their school to improve student achievement and wellbeing 7 Performance data Commonwealth Bank of Australia Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 25 Innovation Business overview Our business 1 Introduction We are developing innovative 2 products that support Our Business business better money management and financial inclusion. We 3 are creating and investing Material Issues issues in programs that support innovation in business. 4 Education 5 Innovation 6 Good business practice 7 Performance data Commonwealth Bank of Australia Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 26 Opportunity from 2017 achievements 1 Innovation Introduction We are constantly working to deliver simple and convenient payment CommBank Business Insights 2 experiences for our customers. Report launched Our Business business Unlocking Everyday Innovation 3 Use our innovation 40,000+ visitors 3 capability to empower Material through our Innovation Labs globally issues Issues people, businesses and communities First physical trade 4 Education transaction between two banks using blockchain, Internet of Things and smart contracts 5 200 countries Innovation now receiving International Money Transfer via mobile 6 Quantum computing Good business simulator practice developed this year 7 Performance data Commonwealth Bank of Australia Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 27 Innovation continued 1 Introduction 2 Our business #3 Use our innovation Empowering people Society, technology, banking and the way we manage money 3 capability to empower are all changing. We see it as our responsibility to bring our Material customers with us on this journey and prepare them for the issues people, businesses future of banking. With the fast evolution of technology and with more transactions being conducted via smartphones and and communities tablets, as well as telephone and Internet banking, the role of 4 branches needs to evolve. Our focus is to assist and enable our customers so they can benefit from new methods of banking both in-branch and digitally. Education We are bringing the future forward Over the past twelve months we have launched: by challenging, leading, inspiring and • Better Bill Experience – Customers have greater control empowering our people, businesses receiving and managing their BPAY View bills and scheduled and communities with emerging payments and transfers. technologies. • Transaction Notifications – real time credit card transaction notifications that give customers immediate awareness and • Credit limit slider – Customers can now decrease credit limits and cap a portion of their limit in NetBank and the 5 CommBank app giving them greater control over their money. Innovation Ongoing reporting and development insights into their daily spend so they can better manage their of new indicators of success finances and improve their savings. • Camera Pay – Camera Pay allows customers to use their phone’s camera to scan a code to send and receive money. • Spend Tracker – a month-to-date summary of credit card Ongoing development of programs which activity that automatically categorises transactions and shows • International Money Transfer (IMT) via mobile – support innovation, including the release customers where their money is going so they can make Customers can use CommBank’s successful pay-to-mobile of the Business Innovation Index better decisions on where to spend. technology to send money overseas with just an international mobile number – to 200 countries, in 30 currencies. 6 • Youth App – the CommBank Youth app which gives under Good Ongoing quality outputs from partnerships business 14s hands-on money management experience that’s fun and practice secure. See case study on pg 21. 7 Performance data Commonwealth Bank of Australia Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 28 Innovation continued 40,000+ 1 visitors through our Innovation Labs globally Introduction 2 Our business Empowering businesses customer experience. As a member of the R3 global consortium Innovation Labs We continue to prioritise investment in technology and of banks, we are working to accelerate the development of distributed ledger technology alongside other members, 3 innovation as a way to better support and empower businesses including successfully completing two blockchain prototypes for Material We have expanded the reach of our Innovation Labs, launching in Hong Kong, London and our roaming to operate more efficiently, keep things secure and improve the smart contracts. issues Pop Up Labs in Australia. customer experience. We see blockchain opportunities in a number of areas including This year, we have had more than 40,000 visitors Blockchain payments, international remittance, trade finance, and capital markets. We have also arranged a virtual cryptobond for 4 through our Innovation Labs, creating a strong global This year, together with Wells Fargo and Brighann Cotton, we and domestic approach to innovation that connects completed the first physical trade transaction between two Queensland Treasury Corporation using its capital markets customers, employees and the community to a global banks using the emerging technologies of blockchain, smart blockchain platform, in the first blockchain bond issuance by Education innovation ecosystem. contracts and the Internet of Things. The transaction involved a a government entity both in Australia and in the world. shipment of cotton from Texas, USA to Qingdao, China, using Artificial Intelligence the efficiencies of a distributed ledger. In November, we announced we were developing artificial We are actively experimenting with blockchain technology and intelligence technology to help with cyber security, fraud 5 exploring how it can provide more transparency, reduced cost, detection and regulatory compliance. Machine learning increased efficiency and choice for our customers. We have technology will be used to help the bank make sense of large an in-house team dedicated to experimenting with blockchain sets of “noisy” data and alert management to areas requiring Innovation to understand the opportunities and test the limitations of the their attention. technology. Internet of Things Our blockchain team collaborate with clients, fintechs, banks, government, regulators and other market stakeholders to We are also investing in Australia’s Internet of Things (IoT) explore blockchain driven solutions in partnership. ecosystem. In October 2016, we were the main sponsor for the We are an active participant in industry groups and consortiums Everything IoT Global Leadership Summit, a conference with 500 attendees from industry, government, the entrepreneurs’ 6 looking to promote understanding of blockchain technology, community and universities. We were also the first bank Good develop global blockchain standards and apply blockchain business to join the Internet of Things Alliance of Australia executive practice technology to cut costs, keep things secure and improve council, participating in the working groups and sponsoring a collaborative IoT showcase. 7 Performance data Commonwealth Bank of Australia Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 29 Innovation continued 1 Introduction Empowering communities Our commitment to innovation and technology investment will CommBank Business Insights Report – Unlocking Everyday Innovation Portrait of an innovative business 2 Our help to empower communities by transforming industries and aspects of the broader community, including the banking sector. Enhancing innovation in business can drive value Located in a regional area business This year we became the first non-university institution in Asiathrough revenue and productivity gains. Pacific to develop a quantum computer simulator, which will give Australian developers a head start on the massive step change Our inaugural CommBank Business Insights Report From the manufacturing, or in computing power promised by quantum processing. It will enable us, along with the Australian quantum community to measures the innovation performance of Australian businesses across a range of categories, quantifies the wholesale trade sectors 3 value that businesses generate from innovation and develop quantum ready applications, in parallel to the hardware Material being developed by the quantum research project led by the outlines the pathways to enhance innovation. Following the launch of the national report, we have rolled out issues University of NSW. a regional vs metro report as well as location and Medium sized, with an annual Our investment in quantum computing has a long-term focus. industry-specific reports (Retail, Professional Services turnover between $2m and $20m It allows us to support Australian innovation that is world leading and Healthcare). We are now evolving the program and that we believe will materially benefit our customers and shareholders over the next decade. which will cover more industry sectors and also the creation of an online tool for businesses to calculate Actively exporting 4 Education their own Innovation Index number and depending where they fall on the scale, we will provide tips on how they can improve. The CommBank Business Insights Focused on growth Quantum Report – Unlocking Everyday Innovation is part of our computing commitment to supporting business clients to better understand how innovation can support their daily simulator developed this year operations. Planning to take on more staff in the year ahead 5 Businesses innovating in key areas Innovation 6 Good business practice Product Organisation Process Marketing 41% Improving 31% Improving 36% Improving 25% Improving 15% Innovating 13% Innovating 19% Innovating 15% Innovating 7 Performance data Commonwealth Bank of Australia Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 30 Innovation continued 1 $1.6m Introduction Five-year partnership with University of NSW designed to provide a complete cyber security curriculum 2 Our business Cybersecurity 2. Improving intelligence sharing and collaboration Customer security and privacy Technology is rapidly transforming economies around the world, • Public advocacy for stronger intelligence sharing between Protecting the privacy and security of our customers is 3 industry, including through the Government’s Joint Cyber creating new opportunities for growth and prosperity, but is also extremely important to us. We have world-class security Material a risk to the integrity of our systems. This year there were no Security Centre; capabilities and teams of experts dedicated to protecting issues reportable information security breaches or other cybersecurity • Hosting our industry peers for workshops on key strategic our customers’ information. incidents. issues. Customers can utilise our product security features, such as To assist with keeping our systems and our customers safe, we 3. L  ifting cyber security capabilities and awareness Lock, Block & Limit for credit cards or set up NetCode, a have continued to take a proactive industry-leading approach to improve cyber security in Australia through: across the economy one-time security code sent via CommBank app notification or SMS, to keep their account secure when completing certain 4 • Sponsorship and support for the school-based ThinkUKnow Education transactions. 1. E  xpanding the nation’s cyber security skills base online safety program through Australian Federal Police where and capitalising on the opportunity to create a cyber we volunteer to teach cyber education to parents and carers; security export industry • Educating our customers via www.commbank.com.au/ • A $1.6m partnership with University of NSW to boost cyber security website and business through the security education and research; • The first ever Commonwealth Bank Cyber Prize introduced www.commbank.com.au/business/security website; • Employee education campaigns on awareness of cyber 5 Innovation this year which awards the top students across Australia hygiene issues. enrolled in applied cyber security courses at the following five universities: University of NSW, Monash University, University of Sydney, RMIT University and Edith Cowan University; • Sponsorship of the Government’s annual Cyber Security Challenge competition, through team mentoring, judging 6 and prizes; and Good business • A rolling program of guest lectures at universities across practice Australia. 7 Performance data Commonwealth Bank of Australia Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 31 Good Business Business overview Our business Practice 1 Introduction Good business practice can empower 2 people, strengthen communities Our Business business and play a role in responding to global trends. We are focused 3 on sustainable, balanced and Material Issues issues transparent policies and decisions. 4 Education 5 Innovation 6 Good business practice 7 Performance data Commonwealth Bank of Australia Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 32 Opportunity from 2017 achievements1 1 Good Business Practice Introduction 4 Mirror our community’s diversity and role model Reconciliation 44% women in Manager and above roles 2 Our Business business 5 3 Material Contribute to our communities 0.8% of our workforce issues Issues identifies as Aboriginal or Torres Strait Islander 6 4 Education Listen to and balance stakeholder needs $1.02bn climate bonds arranged 5 7 Lend, invest and procure responsibly $272m community investment in total 6 Innovation 8 Good business practice Play our role in limiting CO2 48.5% reduction in direct climate change to 2 degrees emissions in Australia since 2009 7 Performance data 1 Unless otherwise stated, these figures are for FY17 Commonwealth Bank of Australia Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 33 Good business practice continued 44% women 1 Introduction in Manager and above roles 2 Our business #4 Mirror our Diversity and Inclusion Creating an inclusive workplace that reflects the communities 3 community’s diversity where we operate is essential to listening and responding to the needs of customers and delivering on our vision. Material issues and role model Executive guidance is provided by the Diversity & Inclusion Reconciliation Council comprising the 12 Group Executives, and chaired by the CEO. The Council meets regularly to review progress and evaluate strategy. The strategy is executed by several groups across the organisation – Business Unit leadership teams, 4 Education Business Unit Diversity & Inclusion councils, employee networks Diversity and inclusion is a strategic and Human Resources. imperative for us at Commonwealth In 2015, the Diversity & Inclusion Council approved and Bank. endorsed a three-year Diversity & Inclusion Strategy. The purpose of this Strategy is to leverage diversity and foster 40% women in Executive Manager and above positions by 2020 inclusion in order that all our people feel valued and respected. In doing so, they would be motivated to do their best to deliver 5 Innovation our vision. The strategy has five focus areas with Building an Inclusive Culture as the overarching goal. 1.5% CBA’s workforce Indigenous by 2020 Match the cultural diversity of our senior 6 leaders to the cultural diversity of the Australian population by 2020 Good business Implement RAP actions practice Grow number of employees completing 7 Indigenous cultural awareness training Performance data Commonwealth Bank of Australia Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 34 Good business practice continued 1 Introduction 2 Our business 1 Inclusive Culture We continue to build a diverse and inclusive workforce that at all levels, mirrors the communities where we operate. Our Gender Pay Equity 3 This is the first year we are reporting publicly on our gender We are striving to create an inclusive employees and customers hail from a broad spectrum of pay equity figures, but we have been reporting internally for a backgrounds and regions, with operations in Australia, Asia, Material culture where everyone belongs because number of years as part of the annual remuneration review. Europe, New Zealand, North America and South Africa. Our issues of their uniqueness – a place where ‘You people come from many different cultures, observe a multitude In the most recent Workplace Gender Equality Agency Report Can Be You’ to do the best you can every of faiths, identify across the gender spectrum, demonstrate a for FY16, there has been a decrease in the gender pay gap day to achieve our organisation’s vision. range of ages and abilities, and include all sexual orientations. (Group-wide) with a 1.1 per cent decrease for base remuneration Having an inclusive culture ensures we are more understanding of customer needs. and 3 per cent for total remuneration. Similar to the previous year, this gap is comparable with the Group’s direct peer group 4 of Australian banking organisations with 5,000+ employees, and Education 2 Diversity in Leadership slightly higher than the average gender pay gap for the Finance 1 Inclusive Culture and Insurance Industry. Gender diversity We have put in place a number of targeted solutions to achieve gender pay equity, including: 2 Diversity in Leadership 5 In 2015, we set a new gender diversity in leadership target having achieved our previous target. This target is 40 per cent • Reporting pay equity metrics to both the Board and Executive women in Executive Manager and above positions by 2020 Committee; Innovation and 45 per cent women in Manager and above positions by 3 You Can Be You • Education in removing unconscious bias in pay and other 2020. This year, we achieved 37 per cent of women in Executive management decisions; Manager and above positions; and 44 per cent of women in Manager and above positions. Women represent 40 per cent of • Mandatory pay reviews for employees on parental leave; 4 Flexibility the Commonwealth Bank Board of Directors and the Chairman is a woman. The CEO’s Executive Committee is split equally between women and men. Currently, 45% of Manager level or • Use of data and metrics to inform objective decisions and actions for managers who make pay decisions. 6 5 Reputation & Engagement higher roles in revenue generating businesses are occupied Good by women. business practice 7 Performance data Commonwealth Bank of Australia Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 35 Good business practice continued 1 Introduction 4 Flexibility Cultural Diversity In 2015, the Executive Committee endorsed a cultural diversity 2 in leadership target. A Cultural Diversity Index (CDI) was Our Our iCAN Flex program is designed to promote and facilitate the developed to measure the cultural diversity of its leadership benefits of flexible work arrangements for our people. A range using a modified Herfindahl-Hirschman Index methodology. business of flexible working options is available to our people. These The CDI is applied by measuring the concentration mix of all the include, but are not limited to: reduced hours, work from home, cultures in our Australian employee population, resulting in an job sharing, altering normal work hours, compressed working index position of between 0 and 1 – the higher the score, the weeks, working from other Group locations, part-time roles and more diverse the population. We compare our index position with that of the Australian Bureau of Statistics Census. Due to adaptable roles where a team member may work in one role for part of the week and in another for the rest of the week. 3 the late release of the Australian Census, our progress against Material the CDI will be published in next year’s reporting. In 2017, 69 per cent of our workforce work flexibly, an increase issues from 43 per cent in FY161. Specifically, in the past 12 months we This year, 50 per cent of our workforce identified as Australian, have promoted flexibility in the following ways: 40 per cent identified as non-Australian and 10 per cent chose not to respond. • Enhanced policies around parental leave for both primary and secondary carers to help parents share the iCAN Flex 4 3 You Can Be You responsibilities of childcare Education • Continued to embed flexible work practices especially Boston Consulting Group – What’s Working to We value the individuality, needs, different perspectives and in our people processes and build manager capability Drive Gender Diversity in Leadership ambitions of our people regardless of gender, age, cultural to manage teams that work flexibly identity, sexual orientation or disability. In October 2016, Commonwealth Bank’s Group Lending • Shared individual and team flexibility stories across Services team engaged 160 employees in a flexible Our six employee networks help drive the inclusion agenda across the Group and externally 5 working test-and-learn pilot, encouraging employees to the Group. The networks include: Women CAN – gender, Unity work periodically from home. After the four-month trial, – sexual orientation and gender identity, Enable – accessibility 90 per cent of participants said they felt more engaged, Innovation and disability, Advantage – age and life stage, Mosaic – cultural Secondary carer leave increased while customer outputs increased 12 per cent, thanks diversity and Yana Budjari – lead reconciliation actions within our from 1 week to to fewer interruptions, better concentration and 4 weeks Reconciliation Action Plan. Each network has the sponsorship of increased commitment. Following the success of the at least one Group Executive and is chaired by a senior leader. pilot, some 3,500 eligible staff in group operations The exception is AdvantAge, which is chaired by a senior leader centres across Australia were offered the opportunity and a graduate in order to represent all life stages. The employee networks continued to drive awareness, engagement and to work from home. 6 26% behavioural change to further enhance an inclusive culture for our Further information is available online Good people, supporting their respective communities externally and business improving the experience of our customers. practice increase in staff working flexible hours 7 Performance data Commonwealth Bank of Australia Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 1 Note the question in FY16 varied slightly: ‘My manager allows me the flexibility I need to meet my work goals and personal needs’. 36 Good business practice continued 1 Introduction 2 Our business 5 Reputation and engagement Sponsorships and affiliations Bankwest Curtin Economics Centre and Workplace Gender 3 We have continued with broad engagement across the communities Material we operate in. This has included working with community Equality Agency Gender Equity issues organisations and Government to play a role in helping end Insight Series domestic and family violence in a generation. The Bankwest Curtin Economics Centre Our CEO is a member of Male Champions of Change, which aims 4 (BCEC) is an independent economic and to use their individual and collective influence and commitment to social research organisation established in ensure the issue of women’s representation in leadership is elevated 2012 with support from Bankwest (a division Education on the national business agenda. Our CEO has also recently joined of the Commonwealth Bank of Australia). the Australian Human Rights Commission’s Leadership Council on Cultural Diversity committed to improving the representation of The BCEC has partnered with the Workplace Gender Equality Agency in cultural diversity within the leadership of Australian organisations. order to pursue a common goal of improving gender equality throughout Our Chairman is a member of the 30 per cent Club, campaigning for Australia’s workplaces through its Gender Equity Insights series. This year, 30 per cent women on ASX 200 boards by the end of 2018. BCEC released Gender Equity Insights 2017: Inside Australia’s Gender Pay The Group (excluding ASB and Sovereign) are compliant with Gap, the second report in the series, which extends and strengthens the evidence base around gender pay gaps and how these have changed over 5 the Australian Workplace Gender Equality Act 2012, following Innovation time across Australian workplaces. the submission of the annual compliance report for 2017. We have also received the 2016 Employer of Choice for Gender The report finds that top tier female managers in Australian organisations Equality citation by the Workplace Gender Equality Agency. In earn on average $93,000, or 26.5 per cent, less per year compared to their addition, Commonwealth Bank and Bankwest were proudly male counterparts. It explores how gender pay gaps vary across industries named Gold employers in the Australian Workplace Equality Index and occupations, and also includes special investigations on gender pay Awards and Unity, was named network of the year for a second consecutive year. Supporting this achievement was recognition of gaps for graduate program participants, workforce gender segregation and the balance of women in top-tier management positions and how this 6 Good Commonwealth Bank as a Gold Standard employer in the Hong impacts on the gender pay gap over time. business Kong LGBT+ Workplace Inclusion Index. practice Further information is available online We are currently working on our new Diversity and Inclusion Strategy for FY18 onwards which will be released in the coming months. 7 Performance data Commonwealth Bank of Australia Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 37 Good business practice continued 1 Introduction 2 Our business To enhance the performance of our These reports outline progress on performance measures workforce, we focus on diversity and such as Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate (LTIFR), claims 3 1.1 incidents and rehabilitation data and health and safety management inclusion in combination with health, system compliance measures for business units. The Group Material safety, wellbeing and training. This helps is committed to continuous improvement of health and safety issues us to attract and retain staff and keep systems, processes and performance. per million hours LTIFR them engaged. Our LTIFR has decreased to 1.1 incidents per million hours. Employee wellbeing 4 Health and safety The Thrive portal was launched to employees during the year, Thrive portal Education The Group’s Health, Safety and Wellbeing strategy sets out providing a source of mental and physical health and wellbeing the long-term objectives that will assist the Group in providing information and resources which aim to assist our staff to employee wellbeing resource a consistent and appropriate approach for managing and better understand their mental and physical health, encourage launched in 2016 enhancing the health, safety and wellbeing of its people. Priority appropriate conversations and help support others. actions have been set for each of the strategic pillars, along The portal also provides access to information on mental health, with quantifiable performance targets which allow the Group to measure its progress and success against each action. physical wellbeing, nutrition, work/life balance and also has easy access to confidential counselling advice through our Employee 5 Performance reports are provided across the Group (including Human Resources teams and executive management) on Assist Chat. Training 39.1 hours Innovation a monthly basis, this includes board reports to the Group’s in training per employee employing entities. This year training increased to 39 hours per employee, up from 34 hours per employee last year. Training hours is further broken into role level and gender, which is available in the performance data section of this Report. 6 Good 2,056,261 business practice total training hours 7 Performance data Commonwealth Bank of Australia Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 38 Good business practice continued Our employment proposition focuses on our role as the industry leader 1 in technology, innovation and the Introduction opportunity to work within an inclusive, diverse, values-based culture. 2 Our business Employee engagement ‘Your Voice’ Employee Internal hires in 2017 Talent attraction and retention This year we refreshed and simplified our people and culture engagement score This year our talent acquisition strategy has continued to focus 3 survey, ‘Your Voice’, to include a greater emphasis on our 81% 78% on building the organisation’s employer brand and proactively Material 77% values, as we continue to embed our vision and values in build pipelines of talent within our core segments – including issues everything we do. ‘Your Voice’ survey includes fewer targeted questions and is 53% technology, analytics, customer-centric design, recent graduates and senior leaders. In all segments, we place a specific focus on attracting diverse talent. easier to complete via a new technology platform accessible of all hires were via smartphone, tablet and laptop. People leaders are able to access their results via an interactive dashboard to internal Our employment proposition focuses on our role as the industry leader in technology, innovation, and the opportunity to work 4 Education draw insights from their results and choose focus areas for within an inclusive, diverse, values-based culture. Our talent implementation at a local level. pipelining extends to actively identifying and mobilising internal employees, with talent acquisition actively involved in succession With a strong response rate (88 per cent, up 5 per cent from planning and finding career development opportunities for top 83 per cent in 2016), the results are a good indicator of the 2015 2016 2017 talent. areas we are performing well in and those we can improve. Our overall employee engagement score is 78 per cent, a 53 per cent of all hires are internal, a figure which rises to 64 per 5 1 per cent increase from the previous year. The areas of 64% cent of senior executive roles. A focus on mobility has allowed Innovation strength are in relation to diversity and inclusion, aligning us to provide a more agile response to changing business team activities to our vision and individuals being clear on needs and to engage and retain top talent looking for diverse their own accountabilities. The areas we have opportunities to of senior roles experiences to accelerate leadership development. improve are employees believing that speaking up will make were internal hires We have the highest Glassdoor.com rating for any bank globally. a positive difference and feeling that others are clear on their We are ranked number 3 in the 2017 Universum Australia’s Top accountabilities. 100 employer rankings – our highest ever ranking and the only bank represented in the Top 10. 6 Good business practice 7 Performance data Commonwealth Bank of Australia Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 39 Good business practice continued 168,218 1 Introduction calls to our Indigenous Customer Assistance Line Role modelling Reconciliation Last year we launched our latest Reconciliation Action 2 Plan (RAP) which received ‘Elevate’ status, the highest Our level of endorsement from Reconciliation Australia. business We have made some significant developments on our RAP actions this year, across its four key areas: 1 Cultural capability and engagement 2 People 3 Business 3 Ensuring our people have the skills to build strong Supporting education and pathways into meaningful careers Investing in the growth of a strong Indigenous business sector Material relationships with Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander • We publicly committed to increasing employment of Aboriginal • We launched the Indigenous business banking team and issues peoples, businesses and communities and Torres Strait Islander peoples across our domestic trained 14 Indigenous business banking specialists, ensuring • We rolled out a Group-wide Cultural Capability Framework workforce to be at parity with the Australian population (3 per we have a network of culturally capable business bankers. which we developed in conjunction with Blackcard, a cent) by December 2026, with an interim target of 1.5 per cent 4 • Our Community Business Finance continued to provide Supply Nation-certified business. 106 people have by 2020. low-interest loans, lower fees bank accounts and services participated in our BlackCard training this year. The training • We recruited 54 Aboriginal or Torres Strait Islander people into to Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander businesses to buy Education includes a face to face workshop with the team from direct employment placements, taking the overall Indigenous equipment, set up a new business, grow an existing business BlackCard, including Elders, and a one-on-one coaching employment to 0.8%. or move their business to a larger space. session which is a confidential session where our people can seek advice and support from BlackCard. • We offered 35 School Based Traineeships to Indigenous • We spent approximately $1.5 million with 17 unique students completing their final two years of high school. Indigenous suppliers through our partnership with • 35 of our leaders attended a cultural immersion program at On graduation these students will receive a Certificate II in Supply Nation. Bawaka, an Aboriginal homeland in North East Arnhem Land and seven employees attended Garma. Financial Services. We also offered 20 full time traineeships to Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people looking to enter • Group Procurement hosted the first in a series of Meet the 5 Innovation Buyer events in April, bringing together Indigenous business • We have grown our Yana Budjari Reconciliation Network the finance industry. owners and CBA buyers for tailored seminars, meetings and (employee network), to 158 members. Yana Budjari organised • We continued our partnerships with the Australian Indigenous discussions. 28 events to celebrate National Reconciliation Week across Education Foundation (AIEF) and the Australian Indigenous the Group. Mentoring Experience (AIME), to ensure Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander students have access to quality education. 6 • We have sponsored the National NAIDOC Person of the Year Award since 2009, providing the winner with a $20,000 • 25 CareerTrackers interns completed a 12 week traineeship bursary. We also support the annual National NAIDOC Ball as part of our CareerTrackers Indigenous Internship Program Good and provide six NAIDOC grants to community organisations 10x10 partnership, through which we have committed to a business each year. minimum of 25 internships for Indigenous university students practice each year until 2025. 7 Performance data Commonwealth Bank of Australia Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 40 Good business practice continued 1 Introduction 2 Our business 3 4 Communities Material issues Strengthening relationships with Indigenous communities to enhance financial independence. JumpStart • Our Indigenous Customer Assistance Line (ICAL) received 168,218 calls, providing tailored banking service to customers in over 150 remote communities across Australia. This year we launched the JumpStart app which aims to connect Indigenous businesses with 4 skilled volunteers from Supply Nation’s corporate, Education • Through the Indigenous Consumer Assistance Network’s Indigenous Financial Counselling Mentorship program, during government and not for profit members interested the past three years we have supported 24 Indigenous in volunteering their skills – support, advice and Australians to complete their Diploma in Financial Counselling. mentorship. We developed JumpStart with Supply Nation, who worked with our Emerging Technology • We partnered with Jawun to provide 13 skilled secondees to team and the Innovation Lab. the Central Coast, Inner Sydney, North East Arnhem Land and Ngaanyatjarra Pitjantjatjara Yankunytjatjara (NPY) Lands. JumpStart allows for both short-term and longer-term 5 volunteering opportunities, covering tasks that may take Innovation • We work to improve the social and financial wellbeing of as little as one hour to projects that could take a number Indigenous Australians and realise that, as the country’s of weeks. Projects can also be completed either facebiggest bank, we have an important role to play in the national to-face, remotely or through a combination of both. reconciliation movement. Through the JumpStart app, skilled volunteers are able to create an online profile, outlining their skills and the times they are available to volunteer. As and 6 when Indigenous businesses require specific skills to Good support them with projects, they are able to create a business succinct brief outlining the project for which they seek practice assistance. 7 Performance data Commonwealth Bank of Australia Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 41 Good business practice continued 1 $272m Introduction total community investment This is made up of $50 million in cash, time and program implementation costs, 2 and $222 million in foregone revenue. Our business #5 Contribute to our Volunteering We encourage a culture of volunteering to provide a focused and Staff fundraising Our staff raised just under $1 million to support cancer research 3 communities relevant benefit for the community, while offering personal, and often professional and cultural, development opportunities for in the last financial year through the annual CAN4CANCER ride and walk in partnership with Tour De Cure, Breast Cancer Material issues our people. Our Skilled Volunteering program offers community Trials and Prostate Cancer Foundation of Australia. Through organisations access to volunteers with specific skills and our employee networks, our people organised a number of We contribute to our communities through expertise essential to their sustainability. fundraising activities to support aligned charities including community investment, disaster relief 4 Clown Doctors Smile Day, AIME’s National Hoodie Day and the Our employees contributed $1.2 million in-kind volunteering. and as a taxpayer. Our people are actively Smith Family’s annual book drive. engaged in the community we operate Payroll giving in and contribute through volunteering, The Staff Community Fund is one of Australia’s longest running Education fundraising and payroll giving. employee contribution programs and will celebrate its 100th anniversary in 2017. More than 13,500 current and retired staff contribute to the Fund. The Staff Community Fund’s major Release new workplace giving strategy in 2017 initiative is the Community Grants Program. Launched in 2007, the Community Grants program has awarded $13.7 million 5 in grants to more than 1,600 community organisations that Innovation support the wellbeing of Australian youth. This year we awarded more than $2 million in Community Grants of up to $10,000 to 229 youth-focused organisations across We have developed a new workplace Australia, supporting a range of education, health, and social giving strategy that has been endorsed by the Executive Committee. inclusion programs. 6 Good business practice 7 Performance data Commonwealth Bank of Australia Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 42 Good business practice continued We are a proud supporter of our local communities and continue to provide 1 assistance in times of need. Introduction 2 Our business 3 Material issues Contributing to disaster relief Tax transparency Clown Doctors We have continued to support many communities that have The Commonwealth Bank is Australia’s largest taxpayer1 4 Education been impacted by natural disasters, including flooding and and this contribution continues to grow in line with profits. Alison Graham is one of our employees and a member bushfires in NSW, Cyclone Debbie in Queensland and storms in Our global tax expense was more than $3.9 billion, and of the Staff Community Fund. She did not imagine that South Australia, through various grants and recovery programs. goes back into the community in many forms including her family would end up relying on the services and schools, hospitals, roads and social welfare payments. We For example, as part of our support for customers affected by are committed to being a responsible corporate taxpayer support networks that have been provided through Cyclone Debbie in March 2017, we activated our Emergency 5 funding from the Staff Community Fund. and to acting with the highest integrity in complying with Assistance Package, waived fees for customers using other all prevailing tax laws. As a signatory to the Voluntary Tax Clown Doctors are specially trained performers who banks’ ATMs to withdraw cash, prioritised our general insurance Transparency Code, we will continue to provide transparency Innovation visit Australian children’s hospitals and wards to help calls coming in from customers in the affected areas and texted on our approach to tax risk, governance and tax paid in improve the experience for sick kids and their families, our general insurance customers in the affected areas alerting Australia. including Alison and her son Jack who was diagnosed them to our customer care line and fast-track online claim form with acute lymphoblastic leukaemia and has undergone in case they needed to make a claim. A copy of the most recent Tax Transparency Code can intensive chemotherapy. be found on our website In addition, we frequently extend assistance to farmers in rural Clown Doctors helped to lift the spirits of Jack and many other sick children and we are proud to have and regional areas to help manage short and medium-term crises, including drought, floods, cyclones and bushfires. 6 Good supported them since 1999. business practice 7 Performance data Commonwealth Bank of Australia Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 1 Bloomberg 43 Good business practice continued 1 Introduction Spirit of ANZAC Centenary Experience Between 2014 and 2018, Australia is commemorating the 2 ANZAC Centenary, marking 100 years since our nation’s Our involvement in the First World War. In 2014 we partnered with the business Australian Government and Telstra to deliver the Spirit of ANZAC Centenary Experience, a travelling exhibition that has brought a piece of ANZAC history to 23 communities across Australia. We 3 have made a $12 million total contribution, including a $2 million donation to the ANZAC Centenary Public Fund. For almost two years the commemorative exhibition, which Material shared the story of Australia’s involvement in the First World War issues and beyond toured across 23 tour locations. The experience was incredibly well received – 99 per cent of those who responded to the survey said they would recommend the experience to friends and family. This year: 4 Education 190,893 people visited Spirit of ANZAC Centenary Experience 5 12 locations Innovation hosted the Spirit of ANZAC Centenary Experience 6 638 shifts Good business were covered by CBA staff volunteers practice 7 Performance data Commonwealth Bank of Australia Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 44 Good business practice continued 1 Introduction Release Stakeholder Engagement policy Conduct Our Commitments is the foundational policy and guiding framework for our 2 Reporting on stakeholder interactions employees in performing their role. introduced Our With Our Commitments, our employees commit to: business Launch ethics training in 2017 Upholding the Appropriate use #6 Listen to and balance Launch overarching code of conduct in 2017 guiding framework of our vision and values of technology and communications 3 Material stakeholder needs Creation of Group Customer Advocacy and Remediation team issues Operating in a Continue to support customers safe and inclusive experiencing hardship Honesty We build transparent stakeholder 4 manner engagement policies and processes Release Financial Inclusion Action Plan in 2016 to encourage ongoing open dialogue. We are also helping our customers Maintaining Education Ongoing implementation of domestic achieve financial wellbeing by evolving violence initiatives for employees, Maintaining personal standards that our approach to financial inclusion, customers and the community confidentiality support our vision supporting customers affected by hardship and ensuring our practices and values 5 Innovation support balanced customer outcomes. Understanding and Disclosing and fulfilling all aspects managing conflicts of their role of interest 6 Good business practice 7 Performance data Commonwealth Bank of Australia Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 45 Good business practice continued #1 1 Introduction we were first or equal first in retail MFI Satisfaction among the major banks 11 of the past 12 months 2 Our business Our Commitments is available in Chinese, Vietnamese and Whether it’s in person, through Australia’s largest branch Focus on Better Banking Bahasa Indonesia reflecting the geographical reach of our operations and ensuring we meet our employees’ needs. network, over the phone with our Australian-based contact centres, or digitally through our award-winning online and Banks have come together to respond to community feedback 3 The launch of Our Commitments has been supported by an mobile channels, our goal is to make it simple and easier for to improve banking overall in Australia, recognising the important Material e-learning module. Currently our completion rate for training is our customers to have their needs met, no matter how or role of banking in the Australian economy and society. In April issues 98 per cent. when they choose to bank with us. 2016 the Australian Bankers’ Association (ABA) announced a range of changes to improve banking and better protect We treat any deviation from, or breach of, Our Commitments We were first or equal first among the major banks for Retail banking customers. as misconduct. This year we have closed 1,022 substantiated MFI Satisfaction for 11 out of the past 12 months, and for the misconduct cases. Outcomes from these misconduct cases ranged from verbal warning to dismissal. fifth year in a row, finished in the outright first place. These latest results demonstrate our strong foundation of customer service We have made progress to deliver for our customers the following initiatives: 4 Education excellence, being number 1 in customer satisfaction for more Rewarding employees and third parties for customerCustomer experience and satisfaction than 80 per cent of the time since January 2013. oriented results Our customers are at the centre of everything we do. By We believe that the way we motivate, recognise and reward our continually improving the customer experience, and striving to employees should support them to deliver exceptional customer satisfy customer needs in more ways, we keep raising the bar in 5 service and outcomes and reduce any potential or perceived customer satisfaction and achieve our Group vision. conflicts of interest. In recent years we have made a broad array We do this by listening to our customers and having timely and of changes. For example, in our Retail Banking Services Division Innovation relevant conversations to understand their current needs and we have moved away from incentives linked to product sales future goals. By focusing on understanding our customers’ and moved towards team based incentives for our customerexperiences, we’re continually striving to simplify our processes, facing branch staff. These changes are consistently encouraging improve service and have a comprehensive suite of products and focusing the whole branch on being customer-focused. that meet their needs. 6 Good business practice 7 Performance data Commonwealth Bank of Australia Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 46 Good business practice continued 1 Introduction We actively participated in the industry-initiated independent Customer Advocacy review of how customer-facing employees and third parties are remunerated. The review, led by Mr Stephen Sedgwick We believe our employees are critical In August 2016 we announced the appointment of an 2 AO, made several recommendations, many of which have to securing and enhancing the independent Customer Advocate and the establishment of a Our already implemented. A key change has been introducing a financial wellbeing of communities Customer Advocacy team to support the Customer Advocate in business championing fairness for customers. new approach to remunerating our lenders in the Retail Banking and customers. Services Division. The new scheme has completely removed Making things simpler, faster, easier and fairer is at the heart any financial targets as a prerequisite to receiving an incentive. The way we motivate, recognise and reward our of customer advocacy. While advocating for the interests of all Under this new approach the best performing and recognised lenders are those who demonstrate a focus on customer needs employees supports them to deliver exceptional customer service and outcomes and reduces any customers, the team is particularly focused on helping those who are disadvantaged, experiencing hardship, have language 3 and satisfaction. The lenders who participated in the year-long potential or perceived conflicts of interest. difficulties or face other challenging circumstances. Material pilot reported that under this new approach they are clearer on the expectations of them in their role and felt there was a strong In recent years we have refined our people Over the last several months the team has focused on several issues emphasis on customer outcomes. management practices, performance management, large initiatives, ranging from data analytics and community and remuneration to ensure we are have a strong liaison to policy review and customer case management. We will implement all of the Sedgwick Review recommendations culture focused on delivering good outcomes for The Customer Advocacy team now includes a dedicated 4 by the next financial year, well ahead of the industry deadline of our customers. As an example in our Retail Banking 2020. Through these changes, customer outcomes will be an complaints review function. This is a way for customers to Services division we have moved away from incentives even stronger component of how we reward our employees. receive an independent review of their complaint if they are not linked to product sales and moved towards team based Education satisfied with the outcome they have received elsewhere within Protection for whistleblowers incentives for our frontline branch staff. the Group. Importantly, the Customer Advocate’s decisions We have had our SpeakUP Hotline in place for a number From 1 July we are implementing a new variable are binding on us, but not on customers. In its first three months, of years, as well as our Whistleblower Policy. Both of these remuneration scheme for all our lenders in the 98 customers approached the team for a review of their make it easy for our people to call out any suspected or Retail Banking Services Division. The new scheme complaint and a further 175 complaint files were reviewed for actual misconduct they may see, and allows them to do so anonymously if they wish. has completely removed any financial targets as a prerequisite to receiving a variable incentive, with the themes and opportunities for improvement. The team has also identified new ways to improve access and 5 best performing and recognised lenders being those Innovation Earlier this year, we enhanced our Whistleblower Policy fairness for customers through data analysis and independent who can demonstrate a focus on customer needs and to ensure it aligns with global best practice, protecting a research. To date the team has conducted ‘own motion satisfaction. Lenders who participated in the year-long broader group of people, and the ABA’s guiding principles for inquiries’ into how the Group responds to customers in three pilot reported having greater role clarity and felt there whistleblower protections. This includes making the process critical areas: those in financially vulnerable circumstances, was a strong emphasis on customer conversations clearer to understand for those who wish to make a report, those with low English proficiency and those managing mental and outcomes. 6 linking the policy to Our Commitments, and broadening the health challenges. scope of whistleblower protection to include people outside The changes to our lender incentive scheme reinforce These reviews are resulting in practical changes that are the Group, such as suppliers and former employees. our commitment to adopting the Sedgwick Review Good providing better outcomes for customers, such as the recommendations in full and support our focus on business Regular reporting on volumes and trends in disclosures made fostering a culture that recognises and rewards our practice under the SpeakUP Program is provided to the CBA Board, people for meeting customer needs. the Audit & Risk Committee, as well as other sub-boards and committees. We have had 171 cases reported under the SpeakUP Program, of which 44 were whistleblower reports. 7 Performance data Commonwealth Bank of Australia Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 47 Good business practice continued Making things simpler, faster, easier and fairer is at the heart 1 of customer advocacy. Introduction 2 Our business development of a tool that helps proactively identify when customers may be in vulnerable circumstances, so that we can tailor our processes based on their needs. 3 Material A significant area of focus for the Customer Advocacy team has issues been working with Group businesses to improve product design and distribution. The idea is to ensure through various means – including regular ‘health checks’ – that our products are well suited for the needs of customers. In April 2017, a Customer Advocate Community Council was 4 established, comprised of 20 representatives covering social Education policy, community welfare, and issues advocacy. The Council is a forum to listen and respond to concerns from the community, demonstrating our commitment to addressing vulnerable and disadvantaged customer need, and supporting community relationships. The Customer Advocate is also visiting towns and regional centres across the country, and speaking with community workers, academics and experts across a wide 5 Innovation range of disciplines, to ensure he is representing as broad a range of views and experiences as possible. The Customer Advocate has also established a specialist team to review and update our existing remediation principles and processes. These enhancements will ensure we have the highest standards in place and support our commitment to put things right for customers when they go wrong, and to do this in 6 a timely, fair and consistent way. Good business practice Customer Advocate Brendan French meets a customer in Wagga Wagga, NSW, joined by local employees Sara Sutton (middle) and Kym Hampton (right). 7 Performance data Commonwealth Bank of Australia Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 48 Good business practice continued Changes to financial indicator covenants will benefit 95 per cent of our small 1 business customers. Introduction 2 Our business Stopping poor conduct moving around the industry Helping small businesses and farmers Over the past year, we have been working with the banking In April, we announced a range of changes to simplify small 3 industry on a range of activities that promote ethical conduct business lending contracts and provide greater certainty to Material and positive customer outcomes. From 1 July, enhanced customers. We simplified our small business loan terms and issues background checks are part of the hiring process for new conditions to make it easier for our customers. For almost all employees. The conduct background check protocol requires of our small business loans, financial indicator covenants will banks to request fact-based information about whether potential no longer be included in loan contracts and therefore will no employees were dismissed or resigned in circumstances relating longer be a possible cause of default. Existing customers will be to specified categories of misconduct, or are under investigation for such misconduct, as part of the recruitment process. This is advised of the removal of these covenants to their loan contracts while future loan contracts will be simplified to make it easier for 4 Education an important industry-wide measure to make sure that people new customers to understand the loan contract. This will benefit with a record of misconduct do not move around the industry. 95 per cent of our small business customers. We also support the idea of a national approach to farm debt mediation to help Supporting a new customer-focused Code of Banking farmers in financial difficulty. Practice A renewed commitment to help customers experiencing During the past year, we have supported the independent review of the Code of Banking Practice completed by Mr Phil Khoury financial difficulty through a new debt repayment service 5 and we are working with the ABA and other banks to redraft a We will be one of the founding banks establishing and funding Innovation new code to make it easier to understand and more accessible a free debt repayment service for customers. This service will to our customers. provide customers who are in financial hardship with access to expertise to better manage their debts and build the financial The new code expected to be completed late this year, will also skills to avoid poor debt in the future. provide more transparency on products and services, a greater emphasis on ethical behaviour to reflect the high standards of service and conduct customers can expect from banks. It will 6 also include a new section dedicated to small businesses. Good business practice 7 Performance data Commonwealth Bank of Australia Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 49 Good business practice continued The Better Banking initiatives are designed to improve banking and better protect banking 1 customers. Introduction Better Banking initiatives: Our progress 2 Our Rewarding employees Customer advocacy Strengthening external Establishing a business and third parties for dispute resolution for compensation scheme customer-oriented results customers of last resort Independent review of product Appoint a Customer Participate in Government review Contribute to the Ramsay Panel’s 3 sales commissions and product Advocate of external dispute resolution review into establishing a last Material based payments resort compensation schemes issues Review of remuneration principles We continue to work with the Ramsay Panel We announced the appointment of a dedicated We are actively working with the Government to support good customer to establish a compensation schemes of last Customer Advocate in August 2016. on the transition from Australian external outcomes resort. Implementation will follow the release We have committed to implementing all of A team supports the Customer Advocate to independently review customer complaints and dispute resolution bodies to Australian Financial Complaints Authority (AFCA) by July 2018. of the Ramsay Panel’s recommendations (expected to be in late 2017). 4 the Reviewer’s recommendations by the next customer remediation principles and processes Education financial year, ahead of the industry deadline in line with ASIC regulations. of 2020. Protection for whistleblowers Stopping poor conduct moving round the industry Supporting a new Supporting ASIC 5 customer-focused Code to be a strong regulator Innovation of Banking Practice Develop industry guiding Establish a background conduct Independent review of the Code of Implement an industry funding 6 principles on whistleblower check protocol for the industry Banking Practice model protection Commonwealth Bank implemented the industry Following the passing of the ASIC Supervisory Implement highest standard of background checking protocol in July 2017. Cost Recovery Levy Bill 2017 in parliament, Good Publish the revised Code of business whistleblower policies we will contribute funding to support ASIC in Banking Practice practice accordance with this legislation. The revised Code of Banking Practice will be Commonwealth Bank has revised and published in coming months and we will be published its Group Whistleblower policy in making changes to products and services in Participate in Government’s line with the Australian Bankers’ Association guiding principles. accordance with the revised Code. review of breach reporting 7 Performance We will implement changes to breach reporting following the completion of the Government’s data review. Commonwealth Bank of Australia Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 50 Good business practice continued We will continue to advocate for: 1 Introduction 1. Industry initiatives to achieve a better balance between retirement outcomes and life insurance 2. The use of plain English and regulatory assistance to implement standardised definitions 3. Changes to make it easier to rationalise legacy products and reduce the costs to customers. 2 Our business CommInsure Following a program on the ABC in 2016 which made a A new approach to help customers For example new CommBank app features are giving people more visibility and insight into their spending so they can take 3 number of allegations about misconduct CommInsure secure their financial wellbeing more control: Material commissioned independent experts, Deloitte, DLA Piper and As Australia’s largest bank, we have a role to play in helping issues EY, to investigate the concerns. Having regard to all of the Transaction Notifications – real time credit our customers achieve financial wellbeing. card transaction notifications that give customers work that was completed, including the independent expert reviews, CommInsure’s Board concluded there was nothing to Research has shown that almost half of all Australians immediate awareness and insights into their daily spend more than they’d like to; one in five report having spend so they can better manage their finances and 4 support the concerns of wilful or widespread misconduct. At CommInsure’s request Deloitte also identified opportunities to zero savings; and almost half feel as though they are not improve their savings. improve elements of the claims process to improve the customer progressing towards their financial goals. We are responding Spend Tracker – a month-to-date summary of Education experience. We accepted these and are implementing the by collaborating with community organisations, leading credit card activity that automatically categorises recommendations. academics, regulators and social service agencies to help transactions and shows customers where their tackle the most pressing financial wellbeing challenges in money is going so they can make better decisions These reviews and reports were provided to ASIC and APRA. Australia. A fact sheet is available on our website. on where to spend We are using technology and innovation to help customers In March 2017, ASIC released a report on its findings from their investigation into CommInsure, which they commenced in April meet their financial obligations every day, to ensure they are covered for a rainy day, and to help them progress towards In an Australian first, Commonwealth Bank credit card customers are now able to close their credit card account 5 online in real time giving them even greater control over Innovation 2016 in response to allegations that were aired in the media. future goals. ASIC’s report also found no evidence of wilful or widespread their financial wellbeing. The fully digital experience enables misconduct at CommInsure relating to key allegations, and no With more than 4 million people logging onto our CommBank customers to close their credit card using the CommBank app breaches of the law in respect of claims handling. app every day, we have a unique ability to use our technology or online without the need to go into branch or speak to our and innovation capabilities to directly support good financial contact centre. Last year we updated our heart attack definitions and habits, and better financial decisions. backdated them to May 2014. Having carefully considered ASIC’s commentary, we extended our updated heart attack 6 definitions back to include claims from October 2012. We believe Good this is the right decision and demonstrates our commitment business to our customers. We are still in discussions with ASIC on practice advertising material and we have agreed to have an independent expert report by June 2018 on the progress of implementing our improvements. 7 Performance data Commonwealth Bank of Australia Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 51 Good business practice continued $400,000 1 Introduction to train financial counsellors across Australia to assist people affected by domestic and family violence $500,000 pledged to the Jan Petland Foundation to fund 2 10 scholarships annually for the next 10 years for Our people to study financial counselling business Open Advice Review Program Financial inclusion Key financial inclusion initiatives we are supporting are: In June 2017, the seventh and final report on the Open Advice Our 27 foundation FIAP actions focus on products and • $900,000 to enhance the skills of financial counsellors. 3 Review program was released. The report confirmed that services; capabilities, attitudes and behaviours; awareness The partnership with Financial Counselling Australia involves Material $400,000 to train financial counsellors across Australia to the program to assess advice provided to customers of and understanding of culture and diversity; and economic issues Commonwealth Financial Planning and Financial Wisdom participation and status. We are currently working on our assist people affected by domestic and family violence. We between 1 September 2003 and 1 July 2012 is nearly complete. 2018 onwards FIAP. have also pledged $500,000 to the Jan Petland Foundation to More than 90 per cent of the 8,654 advice assessments have fund 10 scholarships annually for the next 10 years for people Our commitment to financial inclusion has led the way for 18 to study financial counselling. now been finalised and approximately $31 million (including interest) has been offered or paid to customers to date. more organisations to sign up to the FIAP program. The FIAP program has undertaken modelling to forecast the project’s • Released the Addressing Financial Abuse Guide. Research 4 shows that financial abuse is one of the most powerful ways Education outcomes, guided by independent economist Saul Eslake. The modelling found that the actions of the 30 organisations an abuser can keep their partner trapped in an abusive – if embedded across all sectors – have the potential to drive relationship. It can also diminish the partner’s ability to stay significant economic benefits. It is estimated that in 10 years safe once they leave the relationship. The Guide helps those Financial Inclusion from now, the program can contribute a $2.9 billion annual who work with domestic and family violence victims to provide Action Plan uplift in GDP, potential government savings of $583 million and support to individuals experiencing financial abuse. increase household wealth by $11.8 billion per year. The Guide is available on our website 5 As one of Australia’s largest Innovation companies and employers, we are committed to the financial wellbeing of our customers and staff. Our Financial Inclusion Action Plan (FIAP) demonstrates how we are working to better meet the needs of our customers, staff, suppliers and communities. 6 The FIAP program, led by Good Shepherd Microfinance, Good aims to enable organisations to contribute to inclusive business economic growth by reducing inequalities and increasing practice financial inclusion and resilience. Our FIAP is available on our website 7 Performance data Commonwealth Bank of Australia Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 52 Good business practice continued 1 Introduction 2 Our business 3 Material issues The launch of MoneyTransfer allowed customers to send money between Pick n’ Pay stores at the cash-register 4 Education in a low cost, easy and secure way, delivering a cost effective money remittance solution in South Africa. International financial inclusion customers to be registered, performing more than 350,000 In Indonesia we also continue to grow and develop our WISE In May 2017 the South African Reserve Bank formally granted transactions, which has meant we are able to increase access to financial services to more South Africans. (Women Investment Series) initiative. WISE was refreshed to build on the success of the existing program with some new 5 Commonwealth Bank a full Bank Licence in South Africa. This Innovation additions including broadening our target audience to include is a critical milestone, not only towards launching our digital The digital kiosk has now evolved to create a customer onwomen entrepreneurs. bank in South Africa but as part of our overall strategy to deliver boarding solution for our business in Indonesia. We are able financial inclusion across the emerging markets we serve. to on-board a new customer via the kiosk and they are able The WISE program also focuses on partnerships with to open an account, obtain a debit card, and use it at an ATM organisations that share the same commitment to financial Initially, the launch of MoneyTransfer allowed customers to send in around 10 minutes. Indonesia’s Financial Services Authority literacy and inclusion among Indonesian women, such as money between Pick n’ Pay stores at the cash-register in a low cost, easy and secure way, delivering a cost effective money has formally approved the kiosk roll-out, which saw some 15 kiosks go live in June 2017 located in both Commonwealth Bank Austrade’s Women in Global Business Indonesia program and the country’s largest women entrepreneur association, IWAPI. 6 remittance solution in South Africa. MoneyTransfer has grown to Good branches and key retail locations. include self-service kiosks that have allowed more than 150,000 business practice 7 Performance data Commonwealth Bank of Australia Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 53 Good business practice continued 6,000+ 1 Introduction customers provided with hardship assistance every month. 2 Our business Domestic and Family Violence Initiative Political donations Our aim is to be part of a movement that ends domestic Financial assistance Our policy precludes donations to political parties. Staff 3 violence in a generation. This includes a focus on employee do attend some political events such as business observer Material David* is a life-long CommBank customer who was training, execution of a Financial Inclusion Action Plan, diagnosed with two types of cancer a number of programs, and associated payments are disclosed to the issues participation in Government roundtables, and collaboration with years ago. Today, he is 77 years old and is no longer relevant electoral commission. These disclosures and those the Male Champions of Change on the ‘Playing Our Part’ report. able to undergo surgery. He also has a $37,000 of previous years are publicly available on the relevant This is supported by our continued commitment to financial balance on his MasterCard credit card. electoral commission website. 4 wellbeing and gender equality in recognition that existing Due to his health condition, David has been struggling In November 2016 we disclosed payments for the 2015-16 disparities between men and women in both areas can affect to make repayments on his card, and decided to seek financial year to the Australian Electoral Commission (AEC) in domestic and family violence. Education help from our Financial Assist team. After completing accordance with AEC rules. This shows a total of $130,595 The Domestic and Family Violence and Work training module a full assessment of David’s situation, we realised that was paid to political parties for FY16. helps employees better understand and respond to those who David was unable to make repayments on his card, This is broken down into $56,550 (43%) to the Australian Labor may be experiencing domestic or family violence. So far, more and we agreed a full debt waiver would be appropriate Party, $55,895 to the Liberal Party of Australia (43%) and than 1,000 employees have completed some form of domestic and greatly assist David in focusing on his health $18,150 to the National Party of Australia (14%). The disclosure and family violence training. Financial hardship going forward. General Manager Financial Assistance Solutions for the 2016-17 financial year will be made in November 2017 according to the AEC guidelines. 5 Innovation Rob Kennaugh said that helping customers in their Financial hardship assistance ranged from short term assistance greatest time of need by providing financial assistance right through to longer term assistance which includes debt is at the heart of what the team does every day. waivers, partial reductions, contract variations and extensions. “It truly reflects the Group’s focus on the financial This year we have continued to provide our financial hardship wellbeing of people, businesses and communities.” program, Financial Assist, to help customers if they are experiencing financial difficulty. Assistance might include offering *Customer’s name has been changed. 6 flexibility with instalments due, debt relief, grants of funds, a Good review of financial commitments, or more detailed financial business rehabilitation support. practice The Financial Assist team also continues to provide support via the Financial Assist Domestic Violence policy which is 7 designed to provide assistance as quickly as possible to domestic violence survivors and minimise the need for additional documentation. Performance data Commonwealth Bank of Australia Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 54 Good business practice continued 1 $1.02bn Introduction climate bonds arranged 2 Our business #7 Lend, invest and Responsible lending We actively consider the environmental, social and economic • A $50 million securitisation for FlexiGroup to finance solar equipment consumer receivables with Climate Bonds Initiative 3 certification. This is the second climate bond arranged for procure responsibly impacts and influence of our business, and look for ways to use our unique capabilities and resources to make a positive FlexiGroup. Material issues contribution beyond our core business. We have committed We have become a partner of the Climate Bonds Initiative and to nine ESG Lending Commitments which embed ESG will continue to work towards increasing large-scale investment considerations into our business-lending decisions. in climate bonds to deliver a global low-carbon economy. As a major financial institution, our influence extends beyond our direct operations to our customers and Supporting the transition to a low We also launched a $100 million Energy Efficient Equipment Finance Program with the Clean Energy Finance Corporation to 4 carbon economy support business investment in energy efficient assets. Education suppliers. We continue to strengthen This year, we have arranged $1.02 billion of climate bonds. In the robust responsible lending, investing March 2017, we issued the largest Australian dollar climate bond and procurement practices we have in from an Australian bank at $650 million, demonstrating active Climate bond sector exposures leadership and best practice in the climate and green bond place and use our influence to improve 5 market. The bond is backed by Australian renewable and low environmental, social and economic carbon assets including wind power generation, green buildings outcomes. and low carbon transport projects. Innovation Low carbon buildings In addition to our own climate bond, we have also arranged the Progress the implementation of our nine ESG lending commitments and following: Energy – wind power provide ongoing transparent disclosures. Continue to drive Cleantech Fintech innovations. • A $100 million 10-year Australian dollar MTN climate bond for Low carbon transport Investa Commercial Property Fund which financed a number Ongoing reporting of employees completing Responsible Investment training; CFSGAM’s external PRI benchmark assessment of low carbon office buildings in Sydney and Melbourne • A $218 million US Private Placement climate bond transaction 6 Good for Monash University to finance a series of capital business Ongoing reporting of ESG issues identified in the supply chain expenditure initiatives which achieved Climate Bonds Initiative practice certification 7 Performance data Commonwealth Bank of Australia Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 55 Good business practice continued $2.8bn 1 Introduction lending exposure to renewable energy projects 2 Our business Renewable energy Renewable industry advocacy Our lending exposure to renewable electricity generation This year we became a member of the Clean Energy Council, 3 continues to increase. At 30 June 2017, our exposure to the peak body representing Australia’s clean energy sector, to Material renewable energy projects was $2.8 billion, up from $2.2 billion engage further with the local renewable energy sector. issues last year. As a member, we will contribute to the Clean Energy Council’s In support of the renewable energy market, in the past year, efforts to accelerate clean energy innovation, advocate effective we have completed significant and landmark transactions in energy policy and market frameworks, to grow the sector Supporting Australian renewables Australia and overseas. and transform Australia’s energy system in the interests of all Australians. 4 Funding three solar farms by Edify Energy as the lead bank Education Three new solar farms, QLD & VIC marked our first long-tenor debt financing for renewable projects Equator Principles III In March 2017, we were a lead bank supporting local in Australia, demonstrating the ongoing evolution of the local renewable developer Edify Energy’s project to construct renewable sector and the increasing willingness for banks to We are a signatory to the EPIII, which is a set of standards to three new solar farms in Queensland and Victoria. The accept merchant risk to support renewable development. assess, mitigate, manage and monitor ESG risk in projectproject will see close to 700,000 solar panels installed related financing. at Whitsunday solar farm and Hamilton solar farm in Queensland, and Gannawarra in Victoria, generating The Bungala solar project is a $450 million project involving more than 1.2 million solar PV panels in South Australia. The By adopting EPIII, we build on our commitment to responsible lending and formalise the reporting of our ESG risks for project5 project was the largest equity and debt finance arrangement for Innovation enough electricity to power an estimated 87,000 homes. a new solar project in Australia to date, as well as the first major related corporate lending and project finance deals. We will Sapphire wind farm, NSW Australian renewable project delivered without government release this year’s EPIII on our website in October. funding assistance. CBA’s role was as a mandated lead In December 2016, we were a lead bank supporting one This year we were elected to the Equator Principles Association arranger. of the largest wind farms in Australia, Sapphire Wind Steering Committee, alongside a number of other global banks. This is an opportunity to further contribute to the management 6 Farm in the New England Tablelands in New South Bungala’s unique investment model also saw project finance Wales. The project by CWP Renewables and Partners raised alongside a full equity sell-down at financial close, a and development of the Equator Principles’ implementation, Group uses the latest in wind technology and its 75 tailored innovative structure that has potential to attract more operations and membership. Good turbines are expected to generate enough energy to private investment to renewable projects. business power an estimated 100,000 households and offset over practice 600,000 tonnes of carbon emissions per year. 7 Performance data Commonwealth Bank of Australia Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 56 Good business practice continued 2,768 1 Introduction employees have been trained on responsible lending, investing and procurement policies and practices. 2 Our business Assessing ESG risks – our ESG As a major provider of lending Financed emissions risk assessment process services globally, assessing potential In this third financed emissions report, the carbon intensity of 3 As a major provider of lending services globally, assessing transactions for ESG risks is a key our overall business lending portfolio for FY16 is 0.29 kgCO2e/ Material potential transactions for ESG risks is a key step in our due step in our due diligence process. AUD of expenditure. The Agriculture, Forestry and Fishing issues diligence process. Project finance loans that qualify as EPIII sector, along with the Electricity, Gas and Water Supply sector follow its comprehensive ESG risk management process. represent the most emissions intensive part of our lending Loans with high ESG risk are escalated to senior management portfolio. Other loans are assessed under our ESG policies, systems and for further interrogation and decision. Coal-related lending processes. Our pricing platform for all of our Institutional Banking, Business requires additional information to be provided and is escalated for senior review. Our results for FY16 show declines in the carbon intensity of Mining; Transport and Storage; Agriculture, Forestry and Fishing 4 Education Banking and ASB loans includes a compulsory ESG risk and Education compared to prior year. There were increases in Outputs from ESG assessments are stored and analysed to Electricity, Gas and Water Supply; Manufacturing and Personal assessment process for all Institutional Bank loans, and for monitor and manage ESG risk exposure in the broader lending and Other Services. The difference in the Electricity, Gas and larger loans in other business units. The process includes an portfolio. Hindsight reviews are conducted by the ESG risk team Water Supply intensity reflects changes in this sector, including initial ESG risk assessment based on country of operations in our Institutional Bank to provide assurance controls as well as significant new lending to a recently privatised Australian and over 500 industry sectors. Additional ESG due diligence is coaching to teams. electricity transmission network. required for transactions which have medium or high ESG risks identified in the initial assessment. The ESG risk assessment The Group reports regularly to the Board on the key ESG The latest report with the calculation method is available 5 provides prompts for seven key ESG focus areas: biodiversity, risks in the portfolio using the ESG variables collected in the Innovation on our website water, carbon & energy, pollution, health & safety, labour & assessment process. For example, the number of high, medium human rights, and anti-corruption & governance. and low environmental, social and governance risks across the Energy value chain exposure portfolios. These are also aligned with the Equator Principles’ As part of the assessment, teams are required to: We have been supporting the shift in the Australian economy risk categories A, B and C. towards low carbon energy alternatives, with a significant • Describe any ESG risks for each of the seven focus areas • Detail any client mitigation strategies for each risk identified movement in our lending to the energy value chain from coal towards renewables and gas as a transition fuel. 6 Good • Assess the likelihood and consequence of these risks Our Climate Policy Position Statement outlines our commitment business to limiting climate change to well below two degrees and our practice • Assess the client capability and motivation to mitigate these responsible lending approach will contribute to this commitment. risks 7 Performance data Commonwealth Bank of Australia Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 57 Key: (+%) (+%) (-%) Good business practice continued Change since 2012 1 CBA Exposure1 to the Energy Value Chain as of 30 June 2017: 2.2% of Total Group TCE Introduction Natural resources2 Infrastructure Electricity generation Network and retailers 2 Our business RENEWABLES $2.8b (+170%) 3 ELECTRICITY Material AND GAS issues GAS LNG GAS TERMINALS TRANSMISSION, $1.5b $0.7b DISTRIBUTION (+183%) $3.3b (+151%) AND RETAILING3 (+384%) $7.9b 4 Education (+23%) COAL COAL COAL TERMINALS $0.3b $0.4b (-79%) $1.4b (-19%) (-1%) 5 Innovation URANIUM NUCLEAR $0.0b $0.0b OIL OIL DISTRIBUTION 6 Good $3.3b AND REFINING business (+114%) practice $2.2b (+40%) 1 All figures are Total Committed Exposures (TCE) as of 30 June 2017. Figures represented 7 CBA’s Group Exposures have grown 39% over same period 1 Performance have been specifically derived based on material client exposures. 2 Diversified miners not included. 3 Other energy related exposures ($0.5b) includes smaller loans. data Commonwealth Bank of Australia Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 58 Good business practice continued 1 Introduction Responsible investment • CFSGAM: Our Wealth Management division is made up of four businesses: • Was rated in the top tier by the UK Financial Reporting 2 Council for our stewardship disclosures Colonial First State Global Asset Management (CFSGAM); Our Colonial First State (CFS); Wealth Management Advice; and • Won the “Best Responsible Investor, Asset Manager” business CommInsure. in the Asia Asset Management Best of the Best Awards Wealth managers have a responsibility to allocate clients’ capital 2016, after having won the “Best Application of ESG” to productive purposes in the pursuit of sustainable long-term award in 2015 CFS responsible investment survey wealth protection and enhancement. Our customers, clients and stakeholders are increasingly holding us accountable to this • Was runner up in the ESG Specialist of the Year Award at the UK’s Financial News Awards for Excellence in 3 This year CFS conducted a detailed survey of 75 of responsibility. A stewardship mindset is an essential component Institutional Asset Management, after having won the Material of a strong approach to responsible investment and embedding its fund managers to understand their approach to award the previous two years in its former incarnation responsible investment. issues responsible investment practices into the core of our investment as ESG Strategy of the Year activities is in the best long term interests of our clients. The survey identified a wide divergence in responses As a major provider of wealth management services in Australia, CFSGAM: 10th Responsible between boutiques and large institutional fund 4 we acknowledge the need to integrate ESG factors into our Investment and managers, and indicated in most instances that investment processes. A Responsible Investing Framework has Stewardship Report Australian boutique fund managers are lagging both their larger local peers, and their global counterparts, Education been established to integrate ESG factors across our Wealth In June 2017 CFSGAM released in their approach to ESG integration and responsible Management division’s investment processes, consistent with their tenth Responsible Investment investment. our pursuit of sustainable long term investment outcomes for and Stewardship Report our customers and clients. In assessing ESG integration, survey responses which details their approach Key responsible investment highlights are: to responsible investment. The showed that 90% of our fund managers say they are 5 report includes the results of considering ESG factors. However, managers were • CFS became a signatory to the United Nations-supported less able to demonstrate the impact an ESG risk may an investment beliefs survey Principles for Responsible Investment, alongside CFSGAM have on company valuations, stock selection and undertaken across the business Innovation and CommInsure portfolio allocations. It also highlighted that there is an with 80 per cent of investment professionals believing that opportunity for asset managers to better incorporate • We expanded the FirstChoice, FirstWrap investment menus considering ESG issues leads ESG factors at the portfolio construction, risk and Commonwealth Financial Planning Approved Product List to more complete analyses management and reporting phases of their investment to include 5 additional sustainable, ethical and responsible and better-informed investment processes, something that we are now discussing with investment options • CFS received an upgrade from B to BB for reporting on its decisions. CFSGAM have also provided detailed disclosures on their approach to climate change and a human rights guidance the managers to incorporate. 6 management of climate risk by the Asset Owners Disclosure note they have developed. The report includes profiles of all 17 Good Project business investment teams and over 100 case studies. practice • Collaborated on the FSC submission to the Australian Modern The full report is available online Slavery Act Inquiry 7 Performance data Commonwealth Bank of Australia Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 59 Good business practice continued $4.8bn 1 Introduction spent with more than 5,000 suppliers this year $1.5m 2 spent with 17 unique Indigenous suppliers Our business Responsible procurement and the environment. The Supplier Code of Conduct has been Human rights This year we spent $4.8 billion with more than 5,000 suppliers. embedded into the procurement process for establishing new suppliers. Our Human Rights Position Statement affirms our responsibility 3 With such a large base of suppliers, we can have a positive and commitment to respect human rights across all of our Material Our supplier diversity program has two primary focuses: impact on the supply chain and the communities we operate operations. The Position Statement identifies that we must issues within. This year, we have done this through a number of • giving Indigenous owned businesses and women led apply due diligence on human rights in four key areas: lending, channels. businesses the opportunity to supply goods and services investing, our people and supply chain. We continued to embed the management of ESG risks and to the Bank; and Our Supplier Code of Conduct sets compliance expectations opportunities within our supply chain into the activities of our procurement staff and buyers. • ensuring that diverse businesses are supported to grow their capacity and capability. regarding forced, bonded or involuntary labour, and human trafficking for our supply chain. This was updated to improve 4 Education recognition of human rights and supplier compliance with To enhance our ESG capability across the Bank, we have This year we spent approximately $1.5 million with 17 international human rights laws. developed a responsible procurement training module for Indigenous owned businesses, of which five are new business procurement staff and buyers. This training details the ESG risks relationships. By growing our procurement spend with To support these efforts, we also ran an education session on that can exist in supply chains and the processes for mitigating innovative Indigenous owned businesses, we benefit both supporting human rights and the abolishment of modern slavery or managing these risks. This is now being rolled out across the community and the Group. We increased Indigenous for key procurement staff and have developed responsible these stakeholders. We continued to identify ESG risks within our supply chain business engagement in our supply chain by hosting, in April, the first in a series of Meet the Buyer events – bringing procurement training. 5 In September 2016 we issued our first Slavery and Human Innovation through spend categories assessments. We assess for the together Commonwealth Bank buyers and selected Indigenous Trafficking Statement, in compliance with the UK Modern presence of ESG risk, likelihood of occurrence and presence businesses for tailored meetings and seminars. Slavery Act, highlighting the development of our Human Rights of mitigations and controls. We use this approach to focus Position Statement. Our second statement, available on our resources on market engagements to assess and mitigate website, goes into greater detail on our due diligence processes potential or perceived risks with our suppliers. During FY17 there for our operations, supply chain, lending and investing. were no known ESG issues identified within our supply chain. Our Supplier Code of Conduct sets our minimum standards 6 Good for human rights, labour conditions, health and safety, diversity business practice 7 Performance data Commonwealth Bank of Australia Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 60 Good business practice continued 1 Introduction 2 Our business #8 Play our role in • In October 2016, Noel Hutley SC released a legal opinion Climate change review complete and release position statement in 2017 on the fiduciary duties of directors in relation to climate risk. 3 limiting climate change Property strategy – 2020 targets: Reduce Scope 1 and 2 carbon emissions (domestic operational control) • The Australian Prudential Regulation Authority (APRA) has released guidance on its expectations for regulated entities Material issues to two degrees 2.0tCO2 per full time employee, per year in addressing climate risk, following on from Executive Board Member Geoff Summerhayes’ speech on climate change and prudential risks. We are committed to playing our role 100% of NLA commercial offices NABERS rated We monitor these events and ensure we consider their impact on our approach to managing climate change. 4 in limiting climate change to well below Education 80% of NLA commercial offices Green Star rated Climate Policy Position Statement two degrees, through actions across our own operations as well as our lending, This year we have developed our first Climate Policy Position 100% of new retail spaces built to 5 Star Green Star rating Statement which outlines our view on climate change and investing, insuring and procurement. We our approach to managing our response. Climate change is will continue to measure and reduce our 5 identified as a significant risk to our business in our Annual own environmental impact, as well as Report. We consider climate change to be a significant long term driver of both financial (credit, market, insurance) and help our customers to transition to a lowInnovation non-financial (operational, compliance, reputation) risks. Our first carbon economy and invest in renewable Climate risk Climate Policy Position Statement provides an initial response to technology. There have been a number of significant developments relating climate change. to climate change in relation to management and disclosure: Our next step is to develop a long term strategy for how we are 6 • The Financial Stability Board’s Taskforce on Climate-related going to manage our response to climate change. In line with the Financial Disclosures released its recommendations, recommendations by the Taskforce on Climate-Related Financial highlighting the importance of disclosure of strategy, Disclosures and APRA, we are undertaking a scenario analysis Good governance, risk management and metrics around climate to inform and guide the longer term strategy. We have also set business change. We are supportive of their recommendations and a 2025 target of $15 billion for funding low carbon projects such practice their contribution to a global, consistent framework for as renewable energy generation, energy efficiency projects and climate-related disclosures. low carbon transport. The Climate Policy Position Statement is available on our website 7 Performance data Commonwealth Bank of Australia Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 61 Good business practice continued 1 Introduction Sustainable Property Strategy 2016-2020 We recognise that we can play our role in limiting climate 2 change through improving the environmental efficiency of our Our operations. We have been measuring, reducing and reporting business on our environmental footprint since 2001. Throughout the year we have continued to implement initiatives as part of our Sustainable Property Strategy. We are tracking well towards 3 meeting our 2020 targets. Material issues Energy & Climate Food Reduce scope 1 and 2 carbon Procure tea, coffee and sugar from emissions (domestic operational certified local, organic and fair trade Solar panels on branches control) to 2.0t CO2 / FTE sources (target to be set during FY18) We are proud to have one of the largest proprietary branch 4 Education networks in the Australian market, which we are constantly Waste Culture investing in and reviewing. We are in the process of rolling out an Increase waste recycling rate from NABERS rating of commercial office onsite renewables program for our retail branch network and are commercial office spaces to 90% spaces, 100% of NLA the first Australian bank to do so. We made a commitment to generating our own electricity at Water Green star rated our retail branches and have now installed more than 500kW of solar panels at 34 locations across Australia. Two sites are 5 Innovation Green Star rating of commercial office currently in progress and several sites are under feasibility and Reduce water consumption across space, 80% of NLA we exceeded our target of 30 branches in early July. retail and commercial spaces to best practice (target to be set during FY18) The impact in terms of the environmental benefits and financial Green Star rating of retail spaces, 100% of new retail spaces built to 5 Star savings from retail operations is significant, with some sites producing up to 40% in energy savings and 60% in cost savings. Transport To date, the solar panels have saved more than 450 tonnes CO2. This is the equivalent of around 11,600 trees being planted. 6 End of trip facilities at commercial Health Good office spaces We welcome our employees, customers and the wider business NABERS Indoor Environmental Quality community to visit our real time public portal to see the impact practice • 1 shower / 100 FTE (IEQ) rating of commercial office our solar panels are having on powering our branches and spaces, 80% of NLA rated at 4.5 Stars • 5 bicycle parking / 100 FTE reducing emissions. This site displays data on how our network or above of solar branches across Australia is performing. 7 • 10 lockers / 100 FTE Performance data Commonwealth Bank of Australia Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 62 Performance data Good business practice continued 1 Introduction 2 Our Business business 3 Material issues Issues 4 Education 5 Innovation 6 Good business practice 7 Performance data Commonwealth Bank of Australia Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 63 ESG performance data 1 Introduction Full Year Ended Environmental Metrics Full-time equivalent (FTE) employees (#) 30 Jun 17 30 Jun 16 30 Jun 15 30 Jun 14 30 Jun 13 Total full-time equivalent employees 45,614 45,129 45,948 44,329 44,969 Australia 35,701 35,273 35,797 34,312 35,748 2 New Zealand 5,409 5,518 5,371 5,416 5,419 Our Other overseas 4,504 4,338 4,780 4,601 3,802 business Greenhouse Gas Emissions (Group) (tCO2 -e) Total of Scope 1, 2 & 3 emissions 204,317 164,111 179,276 194,121 205,878 Scope 1 emissions 9,694 9,063 9,729 10,539 10,959 3 Scope 2 emissions 96,595 107,762 115,580 122,190 134,038 Material Scope 3 emissions 98,028 1 47,286 53,967 61,392 60,881 issues Greenhouse Gas Emissions per FTE (Scope 1 & 2) 2.3 2.6 2.7 3.0 3.2 Greenhouse Gas Emissions (Australia) (tCO 2 -e) Total of Scope 1, 2 & 3 emissions 174,794 139,637 152,689 166,798 180,382 4 Scope 1 emissions 7,411 7,682 8,025 8,678 9,565 Education Scope 2 emissions 83,723 94,255 101,125 108,651 120,680 Scope 3 emissions 83,6611 37,700 43,539 49,469 50,137 Greenhouse Gas Emissions per FTE (Scope 1 & 2) 2.6 2.9 3.0 3.4 3.6 Greenhouse Gas Emissions (New Zealand) (tCO2 -e) Total of Scope 1, 2 & 3 emissions 7,822 8,599 8,640 10,184 10,253 5 Innovation Scope 1 emissions 1,348 436 632 698 377 Scope 2 emissions 2,661 3,213 3,393 4,197 4,463 Scope 3 emissions 3,813 4,950 4,615 5,289 5,413 Waste (Australia) (t) Total waste 1,270 1,407 1,855 2,057 1,906 6 Good Waste to landfill 680 755 960 1,129 1,102 business practice Waste recycled 590 652 895 928 804 Water (Australia) (kL) Total water 171,477 114,608 73,111 Data centre 7 Performance Electricity (MWh) 55,282 Water (kL) 41,124 data 1 In FY17 for the first time we have included data centres outside of our operational control. If they were not included, our Commonwealth Bank of Australia Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 scope 3 emissions would otherwise have reduced. 64 ESG performance data 1 Introduction Full Year Ended Customer Satisfaction Metrics 30 Jun 17 30 Jun 16 30 Jun 15 30 Jun 14 30 Jun 13 CBA – Retail Banking Customer Satisfaction (%) 82.7 82.8 84.2 83.2 83.0 Rank 1st 1st 1st 1st 1st 2 CBA – Retail Banking Online Customer Satisfaction (%) 94.0 93.3 93.7 93.1 92.4 Our Rank 1st 1st 1st 1st 1st business CBA – Business and Institutional Banking Customer Satisfaction (out of 10) 7.2 7.2 7.5 7.4 7.4 Rank =1st =1st =1st =1st =1st Wealth Management – Colonial First State’s platforms Customer 3 Satisfaction (out of 10) 8.0 8.1 7.8 7.9 8.3 Material Rank 1st 1st 2nd 1st 1st issues Bankwest – Retail Banking Customer Advocacy (out of 10) 7.4 7.6 7.4 7.5 7.5 Bankwest – Business Banking Customer Advocacy (out of 10) 7.2 7.8 7.2 6.9 6.5 Sovereign – Customer Experience Score (%) ASB – Retail Banking Customer Satisfaction (%) 83.4 74.4 81.8 74.5 79.1 73.0 77.5 74.1 73.3 79.6 4 Education Rank 3rd 3rd 3rd 3rd 2nd ASB – Business and Rural Banking Customer Satisfaction (%) 75.0 78.0 76.0 76.0 77.0 Rank 1st 1st 1st 1st 1st PT Bank Commonwealth – Banking Service Excellence Performance (%) Rank 70.0 7th 68.3 8th 84.7 3rd 77.4 7th 80.8 7th 5 Innovation 6 Good business practice 7 Performance data Commonwealth Bank of Australia Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 65 ESG performance data Full Year Ended 1 Introduction Social Metrics 30 Jun 17 30 Jun 16 30 Jun 15 30 Jun 14 30 Jun 13 Full-time equivalent employees (#) 45,614 45,129 45,948 44,329 44,969 Australia 35,701 35,273 35,797 34,312 35,748 New Zealand 5,409 5,518 5,371 5,416 5,419 2 Others 4,504 4,338 4,780 4,601 3,802 Our Employee engagement (%) business Employee engagement index – CBA 78 77 81 81 80 Employee turnover (voluntary) 10.1 11.3 10.2 10.2 10.2 Diversity (%) Women in workforce 57.8 58.0 58.5 59.2 59.9 3 Material Women in Manager and above roles 44.4 43.6 43.2 42.9 42.0 issues Women in Executive Manager and above roles 36.7 35.2 33.9 31.8 30.3 Gender Pay Equity – Female to Male Base Salary Comparison (ratio) Executive General Manager General Manager 0.95 1.03 0.96 0.99 4 Education Executive Manager 1.00 1.00 Manager / Professional 0.98 0.99 Team Member 1.00 0.99 Age diversity (%) <25 years 8.1 8.3 8.9 9.4 9.8 5 Innovation 25-34 years 34.8 35.9 36.9 36.9 36.6 35-44 years 29.7 29.5 29.1 28.8 29.1 45-54 years 18.9 18.5 17.8 17.7 17.4 55-64 years 7.6 7.2 6.8 6.8 6.6 65+ years 0.6 0.6 0.5 0.4 0.5 6 Ethnic Diversity (%) Good business Australian peoples 50.0 practice Indigenous workforce 0.8 Non-Australian peoples 40.0 Choose to not respond 10.0 7 Performance data Commonwealth Bank of Australia Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 66 ESG performance data 1 Introduction Full Year Ended Social Metrics continued Flexibility (%) 30 Jun 17 30 Jun 16 30 Jun 15 30 Jun 14 30 Jun 13 Staff working flexibly 69.4 43.4 44.5 43.8 42.8 Staff working part-time or job-sharing 19.4 19.8 20.1 20.7 20.8 2 Our Human Capital Development (#) business Number of graduates 149 119 114 131 95 Full Year Ended 3 Training Hours (#) 30 Jun 17 30 Jun 16 30 Jun 15 Material Female Male Total Female Male Total Female Male Total issues Executive Managers and above 74,051 83,676 157,727 89,771 130,040 219,811 45,817 92,159 137,976 Others 1,103,412 795,122 1,898,534 908,310 712,808 1,621,118 898,040 705,969 1,604,009 Total Training (hours per employee) 1,177,463 878,798 2,056,261 998,081 842,848 1,840,929 943,857 798,128 1,741,985 4 Education Executive Managers and above 70.7 43.5 53.1 89.8 65.9 74.0 46.6 45.9 46.2 Others 40.4 35.6 38.3 32.5 31.3 32.0 29.9 30.8 30.3 Grand Total 41.6 36.2 39.1 34.5 34.1 34.3 30.5 32.0 31.1 5 Innovation Full Year Ended 30 Jun 17 30 Jun 16 30 Jun 15 30 Jun 14 30 Jun 13 Employees participating in Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) Training 2,768 1,786 6 Safety and Wellbeing Good business Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate (LTIFR) (rate) 1.1 1.5 2.0 1.5 1.9 practice Absenteeism (days) 5.9 6.0 6.0 6.1 6.2 7 Performance data Commonwealth Bank of Australia Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 67 ESG performance data 1 Introduction Full Year Ended Social Metrics continued Community Investment ($M) 30 Jun 17 30 Jun 16 30 Jun 15 Total Community Investments 272 262 243 – Cash contributions 37.2 37.8 31.3 2 – Time volunteering 1.2 1.4 1.8 Our – Foregone revenue 222 212 204 business – Program implementation costs 11.7 11.6 6.8 Community Investments as a percentage of pre-tax profit (%) 2.0 2.0 1.9 3 Material issues Full Year Ended Financial Literacy Programs (#) 30 Jun 17 30 Jun 16 30 Jun 15 30 Jun 14 30 Jun 13 4 Education School banking students (active) 326,146 330,874 310,474 273,034 233,217 Start Smart students (booked) 574,246 557,475 298,505 288,728 284,834 Indigenous community support Indigenous Customer Assistance Line (number of calls received) (#) 168,218 170,789 5 Innovation Australian Indigenous supplier spend ($’000) 1,460 1,080 6 Good business practice 7 Performance data Commonwealth Bank of Australia Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 68 ESG performance data 1 Introduction Full Year Ended Governance Metrics 30 Jun 17 30 Jun 16 30 Jun 15 30 Jun 14 30 Jun 13 Board diversity (#) 10 12 11 10 9 Male (#) 6 8 8 7 6 2 Female (#) 4 4 3 3 3 Our Female directors on Board (%) 40 33 27 30 33 business Training related to code and conduct Training completion rates on ‘Our Commitments’ (%) 97.6 Training completion rates on mandatory learning (%) 96.9 3 Conduct and whistleblowing Material Substantiated misconduct cases (#) 1,022 issues SpeakUP Program cases (#) 171 – Whistleblower cases (#) 44 4 Education 5 Innovation 6 Good business practice 7 Performance data Commonwealth Bank of Australia Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 69 Metrics definitions 1 Introduction Environmental Greenhouse Gas Emissions (Group) Total Greenhouse Gas Emissions are the sum of Scope 1 Greenhouse Gas Emissions (Group) + Scope 2 Greenhouse Gas Emissions (Group) + Scope 3 Greenhouse Gas Emissions (Group) defined below. 2 Our Scope 1 Greenhouse Gas Comprises the sum of: business Emissions (Group) • Scope 1 Greenhouse Gas Emissions (Australia) – refer metric definition below; • Scope 1 Greenhouse Gas Emissions (New Zealand) – refer metric definition below; and • Scope 1 Greenhouse Gas Emissions (Other) which is estimated for regions other than Australia and New Zealand. This has been estimated by multiplying the Scope 1 Emissions per FTE in Australia by the number of FTEs in regions outside of Australia and New Zealand. (This calculation approach is new in 2017 3 and has also been applied to restated prior year amounts.) Material issues Scope 2 Greenhouse Gas Comprises the sum of: Emissions (Group) • Scope 2 Greenhouse Gas Emissions (Australia) – refer metric definition below; • Scope 2 Greenhouse Gas Emissions (New Zealand) – refer metric definition below; and • Scope 2 Greenhouse Gas Emissions (Asia) – emissions relate to electricity use by the Group’s commercial offices in China, India, Singapore, Japan, Vietnam, as well as the retail branches in China and Indonesia. Data excludes joint ventures. Source of emissions factors: International Energy Agency World CO2 4 Education Emissions from Fuel Combustion database (2016). • Scope 2 Greenhouse Gas Emissions (Other) which is estimated for regions other than Australia, New Zealand and Asia. This has been estimated by multiplying the Scope 2 Emissions per FTE in Australia by the number of FTEs in regions outside of Australia, New Zealand and Asia. (This calculation approach is new in 2017 and has also been applied to restated prior year amounts.) Scope 3 Greenhouse Gas Emissions (Group) Comprises the sum of: 5 Innovation • Scope 3 Greenhouse Gas Emissions (Australia) – refer metric definition below; • Scope 3 Greenhouse Gas Emissions (New Zealand) – refer metric definition below; and • Scope 3 Greenhouse Gas Emissions (Other) which is estimated for regions other than Australia and New Zealand. This has been estimated by multiplying the Scope 3 Emissions per FTE in Australia by the number of FTEs in regions outside of Australia and New Zealand. (This calculation approach is new in 2017 and has also been applied to restated prior year amounts.) Greenhouse Gas Emissions per Greenhouse Gas Emissions relate to Scope 1 and 2 Greenhouse Gas Emissions as detailed above. FTE relates to the Group’s full-time equivalent employees. 6 Good FTE (Group) For consistency and comparability with peers, emissions per FTE relate to Scope 1 and 2 only. business practice Greenhouse Gas Emissions Total Greenhouse Gas Emissions (Australia) are the sum of Scope 1, Scope 2 and Scope 3 emissions (Australia) defined below. This comprises CBA and (Australia) Bankwest. Scope 1 Greenhouse Gas (Australia) Scope 1 Greenhouse Gas Emissions relate to the consumption of natural gas and stationary fuel used in retail and commercial properties. It also includes the business use of our domestic tool-of-trade vehicle fleet. Source of emissions factors: NGA Factors (2016). 7 Performance data Commonwealth Bank of Australia Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 70 Metrics definitions 1 Introduction Scope 2 Greenhouse Gas (Australia) Scope 2 Greenhouse Gas Emissions relate to the electricity use by domestic retail, commercial, ATMs and certain residential properties. Source of emissions factors: NGA Factors (2016). 2 Our Scope 3 Greenhouse Gas Scope 3 Greenhouse Gas Emissions relate to domestic indirect emissions associated with Scope 1 and Scope 2 emission sources, rental car and taxi use, business (Australia) business use of private vehicles, dedicated bus service, business flights and waste to landfill. Emissions associated with electricity consumption at data centres not under CBA’s operational control have also been included for the first time in 2017 (noting that prior year data has not been updated to reflect this change). Source of emissions factors: NGA Factors (2016), and DEFRA (2016) for flights. Greenhouse Gas Emissions per Greenhouse Gas Emissions relate to Scope 1 and 2 emissions sources as detailed above. FTE relates to domestic full-time equivalent employees in Australia. 3 FTE (Australia) For consistency and comparability with peers, emissions per FTE relate to Scope 1 and 2 only. Material issues Greenhouse Gas Emissions Total Greenhouse Gas Emissions (New Zealand) are the sum of Scope 1, Scope 2 and Scope 3 emissions (New Zealand) defined below. This comprises ASB (New Zealand) and Sovereign. Scope 1 Greenhouse Gas Emissions Scope 1 Greenhouse Gas Emissions relate to the consumption of gas and fuel by ASB and Sovereign in domestic operations. It includes both retail and commercial properties and business use of domestic tool-of-trade vehicle fleet. Source of emissions factors: Guidance for Voluntary Corporate Greenhouse 4 Education (New Zealand) Gas Reporting (2016). Scope 2 Greenhouse Gas Scope 2 Greenhouse Gas Emissions relate to the electricity use by ASB and Sovereign’s domestic retail properties, commercial properties and domestic Emissions ATMs. Source of emissions factors: Guidance for Voluntary Corporate Greenhouse Gas Reporting (2016). (New Zealand) 5 Scope 3 Greenhouse Gas Scope 3 Greenhouse Gas relate to indirect emissions associated with Scope 1 and Scope 2 emission sources, waste to landfill, business air travel, taxi use Innovation Emissions and hire cars, as well as fuel consumed in leased vehicles and staff personal vehicles, where appropriate. Source of emissions factors: Guidance for Voluntary (New Zealand) Corporate Greenhouse Gas Reporting (2016), DEFRA (2016) for flights. EPA Victoria 2013 for paper. Total waste Total waste comprises the sum of waste to landfill and waste recycled as defined below. Total waste to landfill Tonnes of waste to landfill generated per annum from CBA and Bankwest’s nine major commercial buildings located in NSW and WA. The weight is estimated 6 by the total number of bin lifts using density conversion factors or actual weighed amounts where available. In 2017, these buildings represent the home office Good location for 55% of the Group’s total domestic FTE employees. business practice In 2016 , the scope comprised nine major commercial buildings located in NSW and WA which includes 2, 4 and 10 Dawn Fraser Av, 1 and 11 Harbour St, Tower 1 201 Sussex St, 101 and 150 George St and Bankwest Place. 2013-2015 results did not include Bankwest Place. Total waste recycled Tonnes of recycled waste generated per annum from CBA and Bankwest’s nine major commercial buildings located in NSW and WA. The weight is estimated by the total number of bin lifts using density conversion factors or actual weighed amounts where available. Secure paper has not been included this year as 7 we are currently investigating, with our vendor, issues within the data collection process. For comparability, we have removed secured paper for prior years. Performance data Commonwealth Bank of Australia Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 71 Metrics definitions 1 Introduction Total water Water consumption includes tenanted usage from CBA and Bankwest’s commercial buildings in Australia. Consumption amounts are calculated as follows: • Actual invoiced water quantities are used where available. • Where a complete set of invoices are not available, CBA extrapolates the remaining months of data from an monthly average based on invoiced amounts. • Where CBA occupies a portion of a building and invoices are only available for the whole building, CBA reports an apportioned amount, based on its 2 occupied Net Lettable Area (NLA) of the building. Our • Where CBA occupies a portion of a building and no invoiced data is available, CBA reports an estimated amount, based on an average kL per m2, which is business calculated from CBA buildings where invoices are available. As at 30 June 2017, 37% water consumption is based on actual invoiced amounts. 3 In 2016, the data included nine major commercial buildings located in NSW and WA and retail portfolio. This year, the data represents CBA and Bankwest’s 43 Australian commercial buildings. Material Data centres The Group has five data centres and one of them is within the Group’s operational control. issues Data centres electricity This relates to the electricity consumption in our five Australian data centres. Data centres water Comprises metered water consumption of the Group’s five Australian data centres. 4 Education Social CBA – Retail Banking Customer The metric represents the proportion of retail customers surveyed by Roy Morgan Research that are either ‘Very Satisfied’ or ‘Fairly Satisfied’ with their overall Satisfaction relationship with their Main Financial Institution (MFI). MFI customers are defined as retail customers who consider CBA to be their main financial institution, and hold at least one Deposit/Transaction account. The satisfaction scale ranges from 1 to 5 where 1 is ‘Very Dissatisfied’ and 5 is ‘Very Satisfied’. The metric is reported as a 6 month rolling average as at 30 June, based on the Australian population aged 14 and over. The ranking refers to CBA’s position relative to the other three main Australian banks (Westpac, NAB and ANZ). 5 CBA – Retail Banking Online The metric represents the proportion of retail customers surveyed by Roy Morgan Research that are either ‘Very Satisfied’ or ‘Fairly Satisfied’ with their overall Innovation Customer Satisfaction experiences using internet banking in the last 4 weeks with their Main Financial Institution (MFI). MFI customers are defined as retail customers who consider CBA to be their main financial institution, and hold at least one deposit/transaction account, card or loan and have conducted internet banking using CBA’s website and/or using an App on a mobile phone or tablet within the last 4 weeks. The satisfaction scale ranges from 1 to 5 where 1 is ‘Very Dissatisfied’ and 5 is ‘Very Satisfied’. The metric is reported as a 6 month rolling average as at 30 June, based on the Australian population aged 14 and over. The ranking refers to CBA’s position relative to the other three main Australian banks (Westpac, NAB and ANZ). 6 Good business CBA – Business and Institutional The metric represents the average satisfaction level of CBA’s Business and Institutional Banking customers as measured by DBM’s Business Financial Services practice Banking Customer Satisfaction Monitor on the level of service provided by CBA. Respondents rate their overall satisfaction using an 11-point scale (where 0 is ‘Extremely Dissatisfied’ and 10 is ‘Extremely Satisfied’). Results are reported as a 6 month rolling average as at 30 June. The ranking refers to CBA’s position relative to the other three major Australian banks (Westpac, NAB and ANZ). 7 Performance data Commonwealth Bank of Australia Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 72 Metrics definitions 1 Introduction Wealth Management – Colonial The metric represents weighted average satisfaction of the Colonial First State platforms – Colonial FirstChoice and Colonial FirstWrap in the Wealth First State’s platforms Management business unit as measured by the annual Wealth Insights Service Level Survey. The weighted average Funds Under Administration (FUA) of Customer Satisfaction Colonial FirstChoice and Colonial FirstWrap is calculated using the most recent ‘Strategic Insight’ subscription database (formerly known as Plan for Life). Respondents rate their overall satisfaction out of 10. The ranking is calculated by comparing the overall satisfaction score with the weighted average of other platform providers in the relevant peer set (using the same FUA weighted methodology as the Colonial First State’s score). The relevant peer set includes 2 platforms belonging to Westpac, NAB, ANZ, AMP and Macquarie Bank in the Wealth Insights Service Level Survey. Our business This metric represents the average score retail customers give on a scale of 1-10 surveyed by Roy Morgan, based on their likelihood of recommending Bankwest – Retail Banking Bankwest as their Main Financial Institution (MFI). MFI customers are defined as retail customers who consider Bankwest to be their main financial institution. Customer Advocacy The metric is reported as a 6 month rolling average as at 30 June, based on the Australian population aged 14 and over. 3 Bankwest – Business Banking The metric represents the average score business customers give on a scale of 0-10, based on their likelihood to recommend Bankwest as their Main Financial Material Customer Advocacy Institution (MFI). MFI customers are defined as business customers who consider Bankwest to be their main financial institution. The metric is measured by DBM’s Business Financial Services Monitor as a 6 month rolling average as at 30 June. issues Sovereign – Customer The metric represents the average score of customer experience measured by the Customer Experience Survey conducted by Sovereign, which is sent Experience to customers who have had a recent interaction with Sovereign. The score is based on averages from three customer groups – new customers, existing customers and customers who have made a claim. 4 Education ASB – Retail Banking Customer The metric represents the proportion of retail customers surveyed by Camorra Research Retail Market Monitor (RMM) that rated either ‘Excellent’ or ‘Very Satisfaction good’ on a scale of 1 to 5, where 1 is ‘Poor’ and 5 is ‘Excellent’ on their satisfaction level with their main provider of financial services. The metric is reported as a 12 month rolling average as at 30 June, based on the New Zealand population aged 15 79. The ranking refers to ASB’s position relative to the other four main New Zealand banks (ANZ, BNZ, Kiwibank and Westpac). ASB – Business and Rural Banking Customer Satisfaction The metric represents the proportion of business and rural customers surveyed by Kantar TNS that rated ‘Excellent’ or ‘Very good’ on their overall satisfaction level with their main bank on a scale of 1 to 6 where 1 is ‘Excellent’ and 6 is ‘Very poor’. Main bank is defined as the main provider of financial services by the 5 Innovation customer. The metric is reported as a four quarters rolling average to 30 June, based on the New Zealand business and rural populations. The ranking refers to ASB’s position relative to the other main New Zealand banks. The competitor set varies for different segments. For small businesses, they are ANZ, BNZ, Kiwibank and Westpac. For commercial and corporate, they are ANZ, BNZ and Westpac. For rural, they are ANZ, BNZ, Westpac and Rabobank. PT Bank Commonwealth – The metric represents the results of the Banking Service Excellence Monitoring (BSEM) survey conducted by Marketing Research Indonesia (MRI) Banking Service Excellence Performance independently every year using Mystery Shopping methodology. In 2017, BSEM measured service excellence performance of the top 20 banks in Indonesia (private owned-banks, government banks and foreign banks). 6 Good business Full-time equivalent employees This metric represents the full time equivalent (FTE) employees of the Group by geographical work locations. FTE captures full-time, part-time, job-share practice employees, employees on extended leave and contractors. One full-time role is equal to 38 working hours per week. FY16 and FY14 numbers are restated due to internal reconfigurations. Employee engagement index – CBA The index shows the proportion of employees replying with a score of 4 or 5 to four engagement questions in the People and Culture Survey. These questions relate to satisfaction, retention, advocacy and pride on a scale of 1-5 (where 1 is ‘Strongly Disagree’ and 5 is ‘Strongly Agree’). The result captures the 7 Performance responses of CBA employees only, excluding Colonial First State Global Asset Management, Bankwest, Aussie Home Loan, ASB, PT Bank Commonwealth, IFS, TYME and Sovereign. data Commonwealth Bank of Australia Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 73 Metrics definitions 1 Introduction Employee turnover (voluntary) Employee turnover refers to all voluntary exits of permanent employees as a percentage of the average, permanent headcount paid directly by the Group (full-time, part-time, job-share or on extended leave), excluding the employees of ASB and Sovereign. Voluntary exits are determined to be resignations and retirements. 2 Women in workforce The metric represents percentage of roles filled by women, in relation to the total headcount as at 30 June for the Group. Headcount captures permanent Our headcount (full-time, part-time, job-share, on extended leave), and contractors (fixed term arrangements) paid directly by the Group, excluding the employees of ASB and Sovereign. business Women in Manager and above The metric represents percentage of roles that are filled by women at the level of Manager and above (including Branch Managers), in relation to the total roles headcount at this level as at 30 June. Headcount captures permanent headcount (full-time, part-time, job share, on extended leave), and contractors (fixed term arrangements) paid directly by the Group, excluding the employees of ASB and Sovereign. 3 Material Women in Executive Manager The metric represents percentage of roles at the level of Executive Manager and above filled by women, in relation to the total headcount at these levels as at issues and above roles 30 June. Headcount captures permanent headcount (full-time, part-time, job share, on extended leave), and contractors (fixed term arrangements) paid directly by the Group, excluding the employees of ASB and Sovereign. Gender Pay Equity – Female to Male Base Salary Comparison Gender pay equity is defined as the pay gap between the weighted average base salary of males and females for Australian-based employees of the Group. The data reflects roles in similar functions, role size and responsibilities. The data refers to permanent full time and part time employees, excluding contractors, 4 employees who have not defined a gender, as at March 2017. Education Age diversity Age diversity is the breakdown of permanent employees (full-time, part-time, job share or on extended leave) and those contractors paid directly by the Group, by their age group as at 30 June of the reporting year. The population excludes the employees of ASB and Sovereign. Ethnic Diversity The metric represents the ethnicity of respondents who chose to nominate the ethnicity they most strongly identify with in the People and Culture Survey conducted by CBA. It also includes respondents who chose not to respond to this question. The surveyed population is the same as the ‘Employee 5 Engagement Index – CBA’. Innovation Indigenous workforce The metric represents the ethnicity of respondents who chose to nominate the ethnicity they most strongly identify with in the People and Culture Survey conducted by CBA. Indigenous Workforce shows the proportions of employees who selected: 1) Australian Peoples – Australian Aboriginal 2) Australian Peoples – Torres Strait Islander; and 3) Australian Peoples – Both Australian & Torres Strait Islander. The surveyed population is the same as the ‘Employee 6 Engagement Index – CBA’. Staff working flexibly The metric represents the proportion of CBA employees that have used flexible work options in the last 12 months based on the survey responses in the Good People and Culture Survey. The answer options are multi-select. Answer options for flexible working include: working from home, alternating my start/finish business time; working from a different location; purchased extra annual leave; job-share; part time/reduced working hours; compressed work week; and other. practice Note this question slightly varied from last year’s: ‘My manager allows me the flexibility I need to meet my work goals and personal needs’ that responded with a score of 4 or 5. Staff working part-time or job-sharing The number of employees at 30 June who are employed on a part-time or job share basis, as a percentage of permanent employees (full-time, part-time, job share or on extended leave) and contractors paid directly by the Group, excluding the employees of ASB and Sovereign. 7 Performance data Commonwealth Bank of Australia Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 74 Metrics definitions 1 Introduction Number of graduates The number of graduates who accepted and commenced in a graduate position with CBA under the Talent Acquisition programme during the year ended 30 June. 2 Our Training Hours This represents the total completed training hours recorded in CBA’s learning management system ‘PeopleLink’ as at 30 June. Training hours are allocated to business each training item such as face-to-face or online training. Executive Managers, General Managers, Executive General Managers and the Chief Executive Officer are included in ‘Executive Managers and above’ and ‘Others’ include team managers and team members. Training Hours per Employee This metric represents the average completed training hours per employee that is recorded in CBA’s learning management system ‘PeopleLink’ as at 30 June, measured by headcount. Role Level is defined as Training Hours. 3 Material Environmental, Social and Number of employees who have completed ESG learning modules recorded in CBA’s learning management system ‘PeopleLink’ as at 30 June, measured by issues Governance (ESG) Training headcount. The ESG learning modules are ESG Risk Fundamentals, ESG Risk Tool and Responsible Investing and Equator Principles III eLearning. Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate LTIFR is the reported number of occurrences of lost time arising from injury or disease that have resulted in an accepted workers compensation claim, for (LTIFR) each million hours worked by domestic employees. The metric captures claims relating to Australian domestic employees only (permanent, casual and those contractors paid directly by the Group). Data is presented using the information available as at 30 June for each financial year. 4 Absenteeism Absenteeism refers to the average number of sick leave days per Australian domestic full-time equivalent (FTE) (and for CommSec employees, it includes Education carers leave days), excluding Bankwest. Total Community Investments Total voluntary investments contributed to the community in the form of cash contributions, time volunteering, foregone revenue and program implementation costs as defined under each metric below. 5 Innovation Cash Contributions Total dollars contributed by the Group through charitable gifts, community partnerships and matched giving. Matched giving excludes staff contributions. Time volunteering Total estimated cost of volunteering hours contributed by CBA and Bankwest Australian domestic employees through volunteering activities as captured in CBA’s volunteering database. Average hourly rates are calculated using Australia permanent employees’ salaries as at 30 June excluding the salary of 6 executive leadership and management team. Foregone revenue Foregone revenue consists of the aggregate value of fee-free or discounted CBA customers banking accounts (relating to Monthly Account Fee and Good Transaction Fees only, not including discounts in interest rates) for customers who have been assessed as low-income earners, underprivileged or business not-for-profit organisations. practice Program implementation costs Total costs incurred by the Group to implement community investment programs such as Spirit of ANZAC Experience, operating costs of managing the Indigenous Customer Assistance Line call centre, operating cost of managing the Group Corporate Affairs team and Women in Focus as well as other not-for-profit and schools. These costs include salary and wages, occupancy, IT and other administration costs. 7 Performance data Commonwealth Bank of Australia Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 75 Metrics definitions 1 Introduction Community Investments as a percentage of pre-tax profit Total Community Investments as a percentage of the Group’s statutory pre-tax profit as at 30 June. 2 Our School banking students The number of active students who participated in the CBA School Banking program from the period 1 July to 30 June. Active students are those who banked business (active) at least once during the last 12 month period through a school which participated in the CBA School Banking program. Start Smart students (booked) The number of students booked to attend the CBA’s Start Smart programs from the period 1 July to 30 June. Start Smart sessions cover different topics and the same student may be booked to attend a number of sessions. 3 Material Indigenous Customer Number of calls received via the dedicated Indigenous Customer Assistance Line (ICAL) of CBA during the period from 1 July to 30 June. The metric does not Assistance Line (calls received) take into account calls that were abandoned by customers. This assistance line is dedicated to assist the Australian Indigenous community. issues Australian Indigenous supplier The Group’s total direct and indirect supplier diversity spend on Indigenous businesses in Australia. The spend includes supply of stationery, services and spend other products used by CBA. Indigenous businesses are those business who are at least 50% owned by the Australian Indigenous community. This metric excludes payments to the Australian Indigenous business that were given as grants. 4 Education Governance Board Size The metric represents number of Executive and Non-executive Directors on the Commonwealth Bank of Australia Board as at 30 June. Female directors on Board The metric represents percentage of female directors in relation to the total Commonwealth Bank of Australia Board as at 30 June. 5 Innovation Substantiated misconduct The metric represents closed substantiated misconduct cases by Australian domestic employees that are managed by the Workplace Relations team cases and Group Investigations team. The metric excludes incidents reported by local associates and joint ventures. There are various internal policies within the Group that govern staff conduct obligations, such as ‘Our Commitments’ which is the guiding framework at CBA. Training completion rates on The metric represents percentage of employees who have been assigned and completed ‘Our Commitments’ learning module recorded in CBA’s learning 'Our Commitments' management system ‘PeopleLink’ as at 30 June. This metric excludes the training completion rates of the employees of Bankwest, ASB and Sovereign. 6 Good Training completion rates on The metric represents percentage of employees who have been assigned and completed the Group’s mandatory learning modules recorded in CBA’s learning business mandatory learning management system ‘PeopleLink’ as at 30 June. The Group’s mandatory learning modules are Anti-Bribery and Corruption, Anti-Money Laundering & Counterpractice Terrorism Financing, Conflicts of Interest, Fraud, Security and Privacy, Resolving Customer Complaints, Workplace Conduct and Health and Safety. SpeakUP Program cases The metric represents the number of SpeakUP cases reported via the Group’s SpeakUP program as at 30 June. The cases include disclosure types such as anonymous, confidential and whistleblower. 7 Performance Whistleblower cases The metric represents the number of ‘whistleblower’ cases reported via the Group’s Speak UP program as at 30 June. data Commonwealth Bank of Australia Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 76 1 Introduction Independent Assurance Report to the Board of Directors of Commonwealth Bank of Australia What we found Inherent limitations What our work involved 2 Based on the work described below, nothing has come to our attention Inherent limitations exist in all assurance engagements due to the We conducted our work in accordance with the Australian Standard that causes us to believe that the Non-Financial Metrics selective testing of the information being examined. Therefore fraud, on Assurance Engagements (ASAE) 3000 Assurance Engagements Our (Environmental, Customer, Social and Governance metrics) for the year error or non-compliance may occur and not be detected. Additionally, Other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information. business ended 30 June 2017 as presented on pages 63 to 68 of the 2017 non-financial data may be subject to more inherent limitations than This Standard requires that we comply with independence and Commonwealth Bank of Australia Corporate Responsibility Report has financial data, given both its nature and the methods used for ethical requirements and plan the engagement so that it will be not been prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with the determining, defining, calculating and estimating such data. performed effectively. Definitions established by management. What we did Limited assurance This engagement is aimed at obtaining limited assurance for our Main procedures performed The procedures performed included: 3 Commonwealth Bank of Australia engaged us to perform a limited conclusions. As a limited assurance engagement is restricted primarily • Enquiries of relevant staff responsible for preparing the Metrics; Material assurance engagement on the preparation of the Non-Financial Metrics to enquiries and analytical procedures and the work is substantially issues • Enquiries about the design of the internal controls and systems (Environmental, Customer, Social and Governance metrics) (the less detailed than that undertaken for a reasonable assurance used to collect and process the Metrics; “Metrics”) as presented on pages 63 to 68 of the 2017 Commonwealth engagement, the level of assurance is lower than would be obtained in a • Where applicable, enquiries of third parties responsible for the Bank of Australia Corporate Responsibility Report (the “2017 Group’s reasonable assurance engagement. preparation of data included in the Metrics; Sustainability Performance Summary”). This limited assurance • Enquiries about the design of the systems used by third parties to engagement was performed in accordance with the 2017 Reporting Professional standards require us to use negative wording in the 4 conclusion of a limited assurance report. collect and process the Metrics; Criteria established by management for the year ended 30 June 2017. • Comparing the Metrics to relevant underlying sources on a Subject matter Responsibilities sample basis; and Education • Reading the Metrics presented in the 2017 Group’s Sustainability The Metrics for the year ended 30 June 2017 are as presented in the PwC Performance Summary to determine whether they are in line with our overall knowledge of, and experience with, the 2017 Group’s Sustainability Performance Summary. Our responsibility is to express a conclusion based on the work we Commonwealth Bank of Australia’s Corporate Responsibility performed. Reporting Criteria initiatives. Commonwealth Bank of Australia 5 The Metrics and their definitions are established by management and are as presented together on pages 63 to 75 of the 2017 Commonwealth The management of Commonwealth Bank of Australia is responsible We believe that the information we have obtained is sufficient and Bank of Australia Corporate Responsibility Report. for the preparation and presentation of the subject matter in appropriate to provide a basis for our conclusion. accordance with the Reporting Criteria. Innovation Our Independence and Quality Control Restriction on use We have complied with relevant ethical requirements related to assurance engagements, which are founded on fundamental principles This report has been prepared for the purpose of providing limited of integrity, objectivity, professional competence and due care, assurance on the Metrics for the year ended 30 June 2017 and may not Marcus Laithwaite confidentiality and professional behaviour. be suitable for any other purpose. PricewaterhouseCoopers Partner Sydney The firm applies Auditing Standard ASQC 1 Quality Control for Firms that Perform Audits and Reviews of Financial Reports and Other Our report is intended solely for the Directors of Commonwealth Bank of Australia for the purposes described above and must not be 8 August 2017 6 Financial Information, Other Assurance Engagements and Related distributed or used by any other party. Good Services Engagements and accordingly maintains a comprehensive business system of quality control including documented policies and procedures practice regarding compliance with ethical requirements, professional standards and applicable legal and regulatory requirements. PricewaterhouseCoopers, ABN 52 780 433 757 One International Towers Sydney, Watermans Quay, Barangaroo NSW 2000, 7 GPO BOX 2650 Sydney NSW 2001 T: +61 2 8266 0000, F: +61 2 8266 9999, www.pwc.com.au Performance Liability limited by a scheme approved under Professional Standards Legislation. data Commonwealth Bank of Australia Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 Contact us commbank.com.au 13 22 21 If you would like to provide feedback, or you have questions on this report or our corporate responsibility performance, please contact us at corporateresponsibility@cba.com.au Designed and produced by BWD
