A N N U A L R E P O R T B O O K L E T 1 – O V E R V I E W d e ar re a d er This repo rt reitera tes Lo jas Ren n er S. A.'s co m mit men t t o t ra nspa ren cy a nd dia lo g. In this Annual Report, we present all our stakeholders with information on the principles and values that guide our pursuit of sustainability, our operations, performance and strategy for creating continued value. The publication is composed of two booklets: “Booklet 1 – Overview”, containing relevant information about the Company’s profile and our sustainability and value creation strategy, and “Booklet 2 – The Year in Detail”, presenting our performance in the form of indicators considered key to the execution of our strategy. All images in this report are of the Company’s employees. This repo rt ad o pts best pra ctices The publication is based on internationally recognized guidelines, the Global Reporting Initiative G4 and the Integrated Reporting <IR> principles, which provide orientation and best practices for corporate communication. Throughout the content, visual resources will show when we are talking about GRI indicators ( G4-XX ) and Integrated Report capitals ( ). Integrated Report Capitals icons: HUMAN SOCIAL AND RELATIONSHIP INTELLECTUAL MANUFACTURED NATURAL FINANCIAL STAY TUNED! Throughout the content, when Main lobby at TRANSPARENCY AND RELIABILITY G4-33 referencing the Company, Lojas Renner Lojas Renner S.A.’s S.A. or Lojas Renner will be used to refer new headquarters The information in this report is assured by KPMG, an independent to consolidated information on Lojas auditing firm, which certifies the accuracy of the data. Renner S.A.’s subsidiaries – Renner, Camicado and Youcom. If the information concerns a specific business, the term used will be “business”, or simply Renner (or Renner stores), Camicado and Youcom. LEARN MORE Throughout the report, we reference the Company’s other publications that may provide more detailed information, such as the Financial Statements (DF) and the Reference Form (FR)*. *The FR published at the time of the report disclosure (April 2017) addresses the 2015 fiscal year. The 2016 FR will be released in May. c o nten ts Message from the Management 08 1 Overview 10 2 2016 Highligh t s 16 3 Who we a re 20 4 Ou r op era t ions 30 5 Ou r pilla rs 44 Learn more 47 Acknowledgments 47 Renner me ssage We believe that sustainability is a value inseparable from the business, its strategy and performance. The following message is consequently published with the same content in both this Report and also the 2016 Financial Statements and the Reference Form and used each year by our Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board of Directors to connect from the management formally with our stakeholders. The exception in the message in this Report is that we have included our continued support for the Global Compact, since this publication is also a progress report to the United Nations (UN) on Lojas Renner S.A.’s performance during the year in relation to commitments made under the Compact. Lojas Renner’s performance can also be ascribed to investments in the In 2016, the percentage of Renner employee engagement was 87%, well G4-1 upgrading of supplier skills through the Reactivity Project, the Suppliers’ above the level recorded for the Brazilian and global fashion-retailing sector at Development Program and the introduction to the Company’s leading partners 64% and 54%, respectively. This result is particularly significant since it ranks Overcoming challenges. This is what best defines 2016 for Lojas Renner. In A further important event during the year was the review of the store-opening plan of the Lean Manufacturing concept. These actions have instilled greater us in a high performance zone among all globally monitored companies and light of the economic recession and a grave political crisis in Brazil, our belief with the expansion of 408 target to 450 Renner units in operation by 2021. We also productive efficiency together with socio-environmental responsibility, thus sectors according to surveys conducted by AON Hewitt, a human resources was reinforced as to the capacity of strong brands with clear and competitive announced the first operations outside Brazil in Uruguay with store openings scheduled strengthening a relationship of long-term trust and partnership. consultancy. The Company was also rated among “The 150 Best Companies differentials and a consistent value proposition in maintaining a trajectory as from the second half of 2017. In the case of Camicado, the target of 125 stores was to Work For”, an award sponsored by the specialized magazine Você S/A. The combining growth with profitability even under adverse circumstances. This maintained, while at Youcom we still visualize a potential for opening 300 units by 2021. Mention should also be made of Camicado’s new strategy for visual Renner brand was ranked as the 13th most valuable in Brazil by Interbrand, is a reflection of our closeness to our customers, our fashion knowhow and merchandising and selection of products with greater value added, both reporting a 17% increase in brand value during the year. a set of daily practices constantly being fine-tuned and focused on simplicity The annual investment program was implemented as planned, totaling R$ 512.6 of which have contributed to the results of the store network, already with a and operating efficiency. million. This includes the opening of 64 stores under the Renner, Camicado and presence in 20 states in Brazil. Similarly, Youcom, our business that specializes With our focus on the long term, we will continue investing in the expansion Youcom flags and the modernization of a further 14 units. The expansion of our in fashion for the young consumer, has continued to invest in improvements in of the physical stores and in e-commerce as well as in the consolidation of The combination of these factors has been instrumental in neutralizing corporate head office, with the construction of an additional 32.7 thousand m² the development of the collections, consolidating its brand name nationwide the Camicado and Youcom brands. Irrespective of the economic and political inflationary pressures as well as additional expenses stemming from the and adhering to the best practices of sustainability, will allow increased process and through more advantageous negotiations, seizing opportunities in scenario, we will also maintain our pursuit of increases in productivity and resumption of social tax debits to payroll and new projects. In addition, optimization. The design, procurement and planning teams will now be working shopping malls. expanded operational margins. We believe that there are opportunities for we continued to upgrade our operations on the logistical front, achieving physically together in the new premises, thus contributing to agility in the process consistent growth based on our business model and the structural projects greater proximity with the stores and in the area of product quality and for designing and developing collections. During 2016, we also intensified e-commerce sales and launched our own being implemented when set against the context of a highly fragmented sector. provision of a better shopping experience for our customers. Consequently, plus-size brand, available only from our online store. Ashua Plus & Curve Size Renner was able to report an expansion in operating margins and growth in We continue to be alert to the potential impacts of new technologies in our businesses was our first initiative developed entirely for the online universe, enabling us to Our thanks go to the shareholders, employees, customers and suppliers for cash generation, with maintenance of the profitability levels close to those by maintaining investments in structural projects of a transformational nature to ensure explore an increasingly important market in Brazil in a different and innovative the trust placed in this Company. recorded in 2015. Net Revenue from Merchandise Sales was R$ 5.7 billion, our competitiveness. In logistics, we concluded a period of three years of investments manner. At both Camicado and Youcom, we have also implemented new the Gross Margin from the Retailing Operation reaching 55.7% while the Total with an injection in excess of R$ 200 million for automation of two distribution centers services for the online environment resulting in important improvements in the Adjusted EBITDA Margin reported 23.4% and Net Income, a growth of 8.0%. (in the states of Rio de Janeiro and Santa Catarina) and for the acquisition of equipment. customer shopping experience. The entire structure has been prepared to operate the so-called push pull supply system, Initiatives taken over the last few years in the granting process, the the improved economies of scale now beginning to ensue. This will translate into gains For the third consecutive year, we were selected as components of the ISE updating of credit limits and for collection strategy contributed to the result in efficiency of product distribution and decreased stock-outs and markdowns. portfolio, BMF&BOVESPA’s Corporate Sustainability Stock Index. Inclusion in from financial products, which grew 20.6%, with non-performance of the this index reflects the commitment to financial results, social development Renner Card showing improvement. Another important milestone during In August, without significant disruption, Renner concluded the upgrading of and reduction in environmental impact, always acting according to the best the year was the authorization to constitute a financial institution. The the enterprise resource planning (ERP) programs – its commercial management practices of corporate governance and to our commitment with the principles necessary steps for incorporation are underway and expectations are that and back office systems. More robust, advanced and agile, the new technological of the UN Global Compact, which we support on a continuous basis. During by the end of 2017, the Company will have its own structure, to be known platform will enhance the level of commercial and store management. This was the year, Lojas Renner was recognized in the Dow Jones Sustainability Index as “Realize Crédito, Financiamento e Investimento S/A”. By supporting the a critical step in growth strategy since the new system will, among other benefits, (DJSI/RobecoSAM), ranking the Company’s sustainability management as 14th Osvaldo Burgos Schirmer José Galló core retailing business alone, once this new business is up and running, we allow the incorporation of a larger number of stores, operation of overseas units in the worldwide retailing sector. The company also obtained a “Leadership” Chairman of the Board of Directors CEO shall enjoy greater flexibility, agility and transparency in the management of and the offer of new services with greater flexibility for e-commerce transactions as classification in the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) and for the first time, we financial products. well as qualifying us in the use of new technologies. successfully neutralized 100% of our disclosed greenhouse gas emissions.  1 o ve rvi e w REFLECTIONS OF THE CHALLENGING MACROECONOMIC SCENARIO IN THE PAST FEW YEARS Unemployment rate (%) Confidence index (points) Ma croeco n o mic, 10 Sect o ria l, 12 Soci o -envi ro n men ta l, 14 108 12.0 Ma croeco n o mic G4-2 6.9 79 61 In 2016, the Brazilian economy continued recessionary for A reflection of the economic crisis that began in 2015, the second consecutive year with a 3.6% decrease in GDP but the unemployment rate rose by 5.1 p.p. during the year, 4.3 with the first signs of improvement in the main economic reaching 12.0% and affecting 12.3 million people. This indicators. Measured at the Amplified Consumer Price Index was the highest rate since 2012 according to the National 96 (IPCA), inflation closed the year at 6.29%, down 4.38 p.p. from Household Sample Survey of the Federal Government 75 73 the previous year and below the government target ceiling of Statistics Office (IBGE). 2014 2015 2016 6.5%. The basic interest rate decreased by 0.5 p.p. compared to the previous year, to reach 13.75%. Consumer Trade (restricted retail) 2014 2015 2016 Debt profile Total savings balance % of debt to Trend in (R$/million) household income personal credit 662.7 665.0 45.9 13.8 13.5 12.8 656.6 44.3 44.0 27.9 25.6 23.5 8.1% 7.7% 6.6% 21.8 21.7 20.9 2014 2015 2016 2014 2015 2016 % of debt to income personal credit/GDP (end of each period) % of debt less household expense2014 2015 2016 trend related debt to income personal credit % debt service to income default rate (average Lojas Renner S.A.’s headquarters Source: Lojas Renner S.A. institutional presentation for each period)  Sect o ria l In recent years, Lojas Renner has reported higher average growth in its main economic indicators than its local and global peers. Market comparison (CAGR 2012 to 2016) Net revenue Gross profit 14.6% 13.4% 12.3% 11.0% 10.0% 10.3% 9.7% 8.6% Youcom -1.9% -2.3% Total adjusted EBITDA Net income 15.2% 17.0% Despite a more challenging scenario, we have continued to grow and We also reduced our Net Debt in 2016 to R$909.0 million, 18.6% consolidate our foundations for a future of continuous evolution. lower than recorded at the end of 2015 as a result of improved cash 7.5% generation and capital management. We achieved a 5.0% growth in Net Revenue from Merchandise Sales 6.8% and an increase of 6.7% in Gross Profit from the retail operation in 2016, Net Income was R$625.1 million, an 8.0% increase compared with 5.4% 2.5% equivalent to a margin of 55.7%, an expansion of 0.9 p.p. The Result 2015. Net Margin was 10.9% (or 11.5% if the resumption of social tax 0.9 NA* from Financial Products posted an increase of 20.6%. charges to payroll is excluded), 0.3 p.p. higher than the previous year. Our Total Adjusted EBITDA reported growth of 7.4%, equivalent to a The Company believes that these results reflect the transparency Margin of 23.4%, 0.5 p.p. higher than 2015. Excluding the effect of the of its business strategy, the focus on its competitive differentials, -3.4% resumed social tax charges to payroll, the Margin would have reached the commitment to sustainability and the continuous search for 24.3%, an increase of 1.4 p.p., a result of the Company’s focus on improving the pillars, which sustain the business. protecting its operating margins and the good results from the Financial Learn more about our performance in the year on page 7 of Booklet 2 Lojas Renner S.A. Local peers Global peers Products business. and in the Financial Statements, available at https://goo.gl/QUmVnt -22.4% Source: companies’ earnings releases. *Not applicable – from R$230 MM in 2012 to a negative R$88 MM in 2016.  Soci o -envi ro n men ta l SOCIETY WORKING RELATIONS AND HUMAN RIGHTS ENVIRONMENT There is growing demand for agility, efficiency and cost control in a susThe life cycle of textile retail products goes from the extraction tainable environment of a sector made up of different players that are of raw materials to the lifetime duration of the product and commercially linked – from the generation of the raw material, through the eventual degradation in the environment. After being disposed manufacture of the product and its sale to the end consumer. Set against by end users, consumer goods are usually destined for landfill this scenario, the constant search for maximum compliance with labor laws sites where, in the big cities, it is becoming more and more has been a challenge for practically all large fashion retailers both in Brazil as difficult to absorb the amount of waste generated by society. well as worldwide. Lojas Renner S.A. seeks to promote attentive and strict At Lojas Renner S.A., we have been promoting continuously and intensively environmental management as its contribution to reducing WOMEN’S EMPOWERMENT this impact, focusing on the production of its supply chain and proper working conditions, focusing on the development of our employees and on the monitoring of compliance with labor laws by our trading partners with the on its own operations as well as the consumption and disposal Brazilian Textile and Apparel Industry Association (ABIT) data aim of mitigating risks of any irregularities. This issue is of vital importance to the habits of its customers (learn more on page 42). shows the domestic textile sector production chain with a sustainability of the Company’s operations since such violations cause profound significant participation of women, representing about 75% social and economic damage to society as well as marring the reputation of busiof the 1.5 million jobs. nesses, economic sectors and countries. INITIATIVES TO MINIMIZE THE ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT Thus, the sector has a growing role to play in the In this context, and since 2013, Lojas Renner has been a signatory to the UN Gloincreasing dissemination of the need for gender equality reduce the consumption of bal Compact, which establishes ten universal principles derived from the Universal and women’s empowerment. natural resources and the Declaration of Human Rights and the Declaration of the International Labor Organiamount of waste generated zation. The Company is also signatory to the Pact for the Eradication of Slave Labor, In line with the value proposition of standing by the through the promotion which promotes the prevention and eradication of slave labor in Brazil in the promodern woman as part of this scenario, the Company of efficiency gains in the duction chains of domestic and international companies. Consequently, we comply supports the seven Women’s Empowerment Principles, production chain and the with labor rights and promote a number of benefits and good personnel management elaborated and disseminated by UN Women and operation as a whole practices in our own operation, at the same time, strictly monitoring all our business the UN Global Compact. Support is therefore given partners (learn more on page 36). to the empowerment of women in the Company’s operations and in the sector’s value chain through Encourage the projects developed by the Lojas Renner Institute development of new raw THE ADOPTION OF BEST PERSONNEL MANAGEMENT aimed at training entrepreneurship and skills in materials with lower PRACTICES PRODUCED POSITIVE RESULTS IN 2016 the textile sector for socially vulnerable women environmental impact The Company was rated among the 150 best companies to (learn more on page 41). work for in the country and placed 3rd in the sector according to the Você S/A – 150 Best Companies to Work For 2016 ranking. engage customers and employees to identify end of product cycle opportunities for the reinsertion of used materials in the production chain The Company has achieved higher employee engagement than the local and global retail sectors and has been continuously reducing the operation’s turnover (learn more on page 39). Test display window, located at the Company’s headquarters  2 EFFICIENCY GAINS + availa bilit y of th e prod ucts 2016 highlights tha t th e cust o mer wa n ts, wh ere h e wa n ts 29% m o re relia bilit y that is, products are delivered in store at the appointed time Mai n Indica t o rs G4-9, G4-13 91% of st o re sa tisfacti o n with logistics CONTINUOUS AND CONSISTENT GROWTH + st o res + positive res u lts 64 n ew st o res R$5.7 billi o n of SUSTAINABILITY growth of 17%, n et reven ue fro m 21.4% ret u rn o n totaling 444 stores mercha ndise sa les i nvested ca pita l + socia l develo pmen t increase of 5.0% 50.9 th o usa nd in the year a nd eco -efficien cy m 2 of sa les a rea R$1.1 billi o n of Ad j usted added, growth of 10%, EBITDA fro m th e A pprecia ti o n of 38.1% totaling 584.6 thousand m² retaili n g o pera ti o n i n th e Co m pa n y's sha res 87% of em plo yees increase of 4.7% (LREN3) en g a g ed: R$6.7 million invested in 76 in 2016 and 1,950.4% higher than the percentage for the projects of the Co m pensa ti o n since 2005 Lo jas Ren n er Instit u te of 100% + i nvest men t R$251.3 milli o n fashion retail industry in Brazil (64%) and worldwide (54%) ben efiti n g of all greenhouse fi na ncia l prod ucts gas emissions in R$512.6 milli o n 20,635 894 2015 res u lt peo ple in line with the Company’s increase of 20.6% peo ple long-term plan pro m o ted i n 2016 774 at Renner, 101 at Camicado Red ucti o n of 11.7% i n elect ricit y R$ 625.1 milli o n and 19 at Youcom 3,925 tech nica l co ns u m pti o n of Net In co me visits t o resa le increase of 8.0% a bo u t 2 milli o n h o u rs b usi n ess pa rt n ers, year-on-year of em plo yee t rai ni n g 29% more than in the 8.4% more than in 2015 previous year Renner  Awa rds CEO OF LOJAS RENNER S.A., JOSÉ GALLÓ WAS THE RECIPIENT Severa l of its a wa rds co nsider OF DIFFERENT AWARDS: th e Co m pa n y a bellweth er Best CEO in the “Best CEO of Brazil” award by Época Negócios magazine, the “Valor Executive” award by Valor Econômico i n th e retail i nd ust ry : newspaper and elected winner of the “Latin America Executive Team” award by Institutional Investor Magazine on a vote of both Buy-side and Sell-side analysts. Among the 34 most successful CEOs in Brazil in the “Forbes Magazine’s Best CEOs in Brazil” award. 1 st pla ce i n th e retail ca teg o ry in the “Best and Largest of Exame” award by Exame magazine, in the “The Best of Dinheiro” award by Dinheiro magazine and in the “Valor 1000” award by Valor Econômico newspaper As well as best CEO, the Investor Relations team also won the “Latin America Executive Team” award presented by Institutional Investor Magazine in the categories of: 3 rd pla ce i n th e retail ca teg o ry Best CFO – Laurence Beltrão Gomes (1st place in the Overall and in the “Época Negócios 360º Yearbook” award by the Buy-side categories and 3rd place in the Sell-side category) Época Negócios magazine Best IR professional – Paula Picinini (2nd place in the Overall, Buy-side and Sell-side categories) And recognized as: o n e of th e best Best investor relations program – Lojas Renner (1st place in the Overall, Buy-side and Sell-side categories) co m pa nies t o wo rk fo r Best IR team (2nd place in the Overall, Buy-side and Sell-side categories) 3rd place in the “150 Best Companies to Work For” ranking by Você S/A and 3rd place in the 17,000 Best event for analysts – Lojas Renner (Renner Day) (1st place in employees plus category of the “Valor Carreira” the Overall category – Buy-side and Sell-side categories were award by Valor Econômico newspaper not disclosed) Best IR Website – Lojas Renner (1st place in the Overall category – Buy-side and Sell-side categories were not disclosed) m ost s ustai na ble co m pa n y And in the “IR MAGAZINE AWARDS – BRAZIL” by IR in the retail sector according to Exame’s Sustainability Magazine, Laurence Beltrão Gomes (Chief Financial Guide by Exame magazine and Investor Relations Officer) was elected as the best investor relations executive – large & mega cap. Employees of the Macro-trends and Consumer Behavior Center  3 wh o we a r e RR AP 2 1 AM MA Ou tlo o k, 20 Cu lt u re a nd va lues, 22 Ou r va lue pro positi o n, 22 PA 2 CE 8 1 6 3 4 RN 4 1 2 PB 2 1 3 5 b usi n ess u nits 1 PE PI 8 AC 3 TO Ou tlo o k 19,018 1 RO AL 4 1 1 SE em plo yees 1 1 2 MT BA G4-3, G4-4, G4-8, G4-9 3 10 1 4 With more than 50 years of 27.4 milli o n 8 DF history, Lojas Renner S.A., Renner card customers GO 3 2 headquartered in Porto Alegre e Co m merce 10 22 MG (RS), has been a publicly 4 traded company since 1967 7 and is the largest fashion 1,997 di rect s u ppliers MS 1 ES 8 Fi na n cia l 3 2 444 retailer in Brazil. of Renner and Youcom 4 90 Prod ucts (administrative and resale, SP 33 domestic and international) RJ 33 2 35 9 st o res dist rib u ti o n PR in all Brazilian states and cen ters 5 15 the Federal District with 117 thousand m2 SC 17 4 4 RENNER 31 5 CAMICADO RS 9 YOUCOM DC RENNER DC CAMICADO South 63 14 15 DC YOUCOM Southeast 153 48 42 Center-West 24 9 2 Northeast 44 13 North 16 1 TOTAL 300 85 59 Employees of the Style Department  Cu lt u re a nd Va lues G4-56 Missi o n OUR MISSION IS TO BE THE BEST AND LARGEST FASHION RETAILER IN THE AMERICAS FOR THE MIDDLE/UPPER-CLASS SEGMENT OF CUSTOMERS WITH DIVERSE STYLES, OFFERING FASHION, QUALITY, COMPETITIVE PRICES AND SERVICES OF EXCELLENCE, ENCHANTING AND INNOVATING, ALWAYS IN A SUSTAINABLE WAY Ou r Va lues PEOPLE OBSTINACY FOR TO ENCHANT OUTSTANDING RESULTS We hire, develop and retain the best staff – This is our fulfillment: we put ourselves staff that like people, who have a passion for We are responsible for achieving in our customers’ shoes, treating them what they do and a shine in their eyes. We work results, not just good ideas. Results the way we would like to be treated. We as a team and our staff have the authority and are what guarantee our investments, must understand their desires and needs responsibility to take decisions. We provide the provide a return to our shareholders, and exceed their expectations, so that we same ladder to all our employees so they can pay our salaries and enable our can enchant them. We do not act as mere rise in the Company at a pace equal to their long-term growth and longevity. employees; we enchant our customers. talents, efforts and results. We do not have a Customer Service Center QUALITY because each of us is a Customer Service OWNERS OF THE BUSINESS We develop and implement standards of Desk: in case of any problem, we solve it with We think and act like owners of our business excellence in all that we do, since there is immediate effect. units, being rewarded as such. We have a room for improvement in all that we do. sense of urgency, attitude and aggressiveness Our products and services enjoy the highest OUR WAY in the pursuit of best practices, grasping all levels of quality: this is embodied in our DNA. We are a cheerful, innovative, ethical, market opportunities. We take decisions, SUSTAINABILITY In 2016, the Company austere, open-doors company, where running risks with responsibility; we accept updated its mission, communication is easy and transparent. We errors that become lessons learned, not Our businesses and attitudes are based reinforcing its do things in a simple and responsive way, seeking to blame anyone but to identify causes on sustainable principles. Beyond commitment to with much enthusiasm and passion. Our that must be corrected. We are responsible for financial results, we aim to achieve social sustainable development. business is driven by persistence, creativity, the long-term future of Renner, mainly through development and reduced environmental Learn more on page 35. and optimism, always very close to the attitudes and examples: an example is worth impacts, always in accordance with the market: we adopt a get-up-and-go attitude. more than a thousand words. best practices of corporate governance. Read more about the Company’s values in the corporate website: www.lojasrenner.com.br in the Institutional section > Corporate Ou r Va lue Pro positi o n Foundations “To be a brand accomplice to the modern woman, offering various styles of fashionable high quality merchandise at competitive prices and excellence in customer service. Enchanting and innovating.” Mission, Vision and Values mural at  corporate headquarters Ren n er 19 own brands, 16 being apparel, 01 for cosmetics, 01 for accessories and 01 for footwear, as well as licensed products. Renner’s own brands are divided into: 6 bra nds which make up 5 lifestyles: different styles Distributed in the stores in separate that track global fashion trends, respecting spaces, making selection of items diversity and the unique ways of being in the by customers easier and shopping different regions of Brazil. more time-efficient. FASHION NEO-TRADITIONAL CASUAL CONTEMPORARY YOUNG NEO-TRADITIONAL 13 bra nds for different products 300 st o res i n every sta te of Brazil + th e o n li n e st o re Ashua: Brand launched in 2016 to enhance the female body and Consistent market positioning, leading its competitors, curves with flattering cuts in with a target audience composed of women aged between sizes from 46 to 54. 18 and 39 from A-, B and C+ social classes  MISSION Ca micad o To surprise and connect young MISSION Yo uco m people with the world of fashion To be largest and best homeware and decor Brand projecting attitude, store in the Americas, providing an enchanting humor and style, connected and inspiring experience in a sustainable way with a youth market. It offers VISION clothes, shoes and accessories To make Youcom the first option A store specialized in homeware and decor – leader in the Brazilian for women and men with a for young people who seek fashion market, it offers a wide range of household, decorations, bed, bath and flavor of world fashion, music, technology and urban culture. trends at fair prices, understanding tableware products in physical and online stores. their desires and surprising always Since 2014, Camicado has been implementing Renner’s methodology 59 physical stores in the South, of presenting its collections to the customer organized around the Southeast and Central and lifestyles concept, becoming more assertive in the products offered West regions of Brazil, all of and in attracting new customers. them located in shopping malls. In addition, there is an PURPOSE 85 stores in 20 states in every region of Brazil, all located in shopping online store. We exist to enable young malls, as well as an online store. people to express their Target audience aged between individuality Recognized brand, it is known for its experience in wedding gift 18 and 28 from the A-, B and C+ lists. Target audience aged between 18 and 39 in the A-, B and C+ social classes. social classes.  E-Co m merce Fi na n cia l Prod ucts G4-9 Each business – Renner, Camicado and Youcom – has their own e-commerce channels, introducing an online shopping experience and benefits such as ease of use, convenience and information for customers. In 2016, following the rapid growth Lojas Renner’s Financial Products are convenience and loyalty tools, offered to customers of this segment in Brazil, several improvements were made to the Company’s online platforms, notably Renner’s new layout, through partnerships with financial institutions, which are aligned with the value proposition of new features, launch of lookbooks and the Ashua Plus and Curve Size brand, sold exclusively through the website. being an accomplice to the modern woman. Although Financial Products are not the Company’s core business, they are important tools in supporting the retail operation. As well as being another channel for relating to customers, it improves brand recognition and increases sales in the online and the physical stores. RENNER CARD Private Label card, with 27.4 million cards issued at the end of 2016, represented 48.2% of sales and a credit portfolio of R$1.3 billion MEU CARTÃO Co-branded card, with 2.7 million cards issued at the end of 2016 and a credit portfolio of R$529.5 million SAQUE RAPIDO (QUICK WITHDRAWAL) Personal loan services with a credit portfolio of R$144.6 million at the end of 2016 INSURANCE AND ASSISTANCE Several protection services offered in partnership with insurance and home assistance companies Learn more at www.realizesolucoesfinanceiras.com.br  E-Commerce studio at the Company’s headquarters 4 ou r ope r a t ion s GROWT H, COMPETITIVEN ESS AND PROFITABILIT Y, 30 S t o re Expa nsi o n, 30 Tech n o lo gica l t ra nsfo rma ti o n, 32 Lo gistic evo lu ti o n, 33 New b usi n ess pla tfo rm, 34 S u ppo rt fo r efficien t prod ucti o n, 34 RESPONSIBLE FASHION, 35 Respo nsible s u ppliers, 36 En g a g emen t, 38 Eco-efficien t ma na g emen t, 42 S ustai na ble prod ucts a nd services, 43 BENEFITS The continuation of expansion in Brazil despite the economic recession is an important differential and demonstrates our confidence in the potential for consolidation of domestic fashion retailing, currently very fragmented. The operation in Uruguay will be an important overseas experience opening new fronts and opportunities for expansion elsewhere in Latin America. G ro wth, Co m petitiven ess a nd Profita bilit y WHY URUGUAY? After a thorough macroand micro-economic analysis of the industry and competitors in Latin America, we identified the potential in the Uruguayan market for our first experience abroad: ECONOMIC POTENTIAL S t o re Expa nsi o n G4-13 • Growing domestic consumption • One of the largest GDPs per capita ROOM FOR A SIGNIFICANT 2016 SCENARIO in Latin America MARKET SHARE • Limited presence of local The Company continued to expand rapidly with sales growth of ATTRACTIVE PROFILE and international players 8.2% at Renner, 22.2% at Camicado and 61.9% at Youcom as well as 5.0% in net revenue from merchandise sales. • Average age of the population matching • Few anchor stores in Renner’s target market shopping malls In line with the expansion curve, 64 new stores were opened in • Population concentration of Montevideo (1.4 • Uruguay’s retail sector is 2016 of which – 25 Renner, 17 Camicado, and 22 Youcom. million) similar to that of Porto Alegre (1.5 undergoing a process of million) with culture and climate similar to the concentration as in Brazil In this context, the highlight was our expansion outside Brazil state of Rio Grande do Sul • Our products and prices are and aligned with our mission of “TO BE THE BEST AND LARGEST FASHION RETAILER IN THE AMERICAS”. As a first step, a decision • Uruguayan population familiar with the Renner competitive with those in the was taken to open four Renner stores in Uruguay. brand due to tourism Uruguayan market • Location close to the Company’s Distribution During the year, the expansion plan out to 2021 was revisited, providing for: Center, headquarters and stores in Brazil 4 new Renner stores in Uruguay: 40 new Camicado New platform 3 in Montevideo in 2017 and one stores, reaching a total with exclusive in Rivera in 2018. of 125 stores. brands for the Renner, Camicado 150 new Renner stores, reaching 241 new Youcom and Youcom Montevideo a total of 450 stores (in 2015, the Beauty Department at stores, reaching a total e-commerce a Renner store forecast was a total of 408 stores). of 300 stores. websites.  Tech n o lo gica l Tra nsfo rma ti o n G4-2 Lo gistic Evo l u ti o n G4-2, G4-EN30 2016 SCENARIO 2016 SCENARIO In 2016, there were important developments in the BENEFITS Lojas Renner S.A. completed an important cycle with the conclusion of large technological transformational projects. Complete evolution of logistics systems: system changes were introduced, ranging from the back-office to the Company’s management and operations with the The entry into full operations of the Santa Catarina The improvement in logistics services completion of the new cards platform and stores operation. • Inaugurated in 2015, the Distribution Center in DC concluded the consolidation and integration also allowed stores to spend less time Santa Catarina began operations at full capacity, process of our network. In 2010, there were nine receiving products, allocating resources In digital channels, Renner’s new online store application was launched, our websites redesigned and prepared for the absorbing the activities previously performed by the Distribution centers but since reduced to four. The and managing inventory, so increasing Financial Institution’s technological environment (learn more on page 34), among many other projects. Logistics Operator in Navegantes and the Distribution two newest ones (in Rio de Janeiro and in Santa service time available to the customer. Center in Palhoça, both the latter operations being Catarina, corresponding to 80% of the Company’s An in-store enchantment survey All these achievements permit consolidation and modernization of the Company’s technological environment in readiness to shut down. total DC area) are fully automated. showed logistics service satisfaction meet future challenges. improving from 77% to 91% in 2016. In • Improvements were made in the integration This structure has brought gains in both agility and addition, we also detected an increase between logistics, suppliers, procurement and stores, efficiency, facilitating the installation of the push in lead time (time between the delivery increasing service quality as well as speed, precision, and pull model in all stores. This substitutes the of the product by the supplier to the DC BENEFITS punctuality in delivery and the quality of the product logistics flow that “pushes” products to the stores and its delivery to the store). boxes. These boxes now contain only one division with one that is based on the replacement of the The initiatives enable the Company to strengthen and are identified by product division, facilitating items as they are sold. In this way, it is possible to Finally, efforts are made to generate security in its processes and to continue growing with store organization when receiving merchandise. offer customers the product they want at the time less negative socio-environmental the best and most modern practices, meeting new they want it, giving more precision to store operations impacts and more opportunities demands that arise with greater agility and increasing • The Sustainable Logistics Workshop was held for by reducing disruption, increasing satisfaction and for value creation through raising intensity due to the technological influence in promoting the exchange of knowledge with our gaining efficiency by avoiding the transfer of products the awareness and engagement of business operations and people’s lives. transportation service suppliers and the debate on between stores and thus minimizing markdowns. In the logistics chain on the issue of waste management, health and safety, management The Company has also seen gains in efficiency 2016, there was an increase in the level of service in sustainability. of greenhouse gas emissions and climate change. We throughout the year: the items in operation in the push and pull model, became partners of Childhood Brasil with the Na Mão and, for 2017, there is an internal plan aimed at Certa Program, which seeks to eliminate the sexual • Increased productivity by improving systems further leveraging volumes operated using this model. exploitation of children and adolescents on Brazilian performance and gains in agility for several processes. highways. • New features aimed at mobility and management. • More assertive reporting focused on business/store operations. • Adaptation of the technological infrastructure to meet demands of projects requiring agility. • Reduction of 20% to 25% in customer service time at store checkouts due to new commercial automation. • Realize Soluções Financeiras’ proposals are prepared in half the time previously needed and can be completed on tablet devices, face-to-face with the customers and in loco at the Company’s own stores.  Respo nsible New Busi n ess Pla tfo rm Fashi o n G4-2 2016 SCENARIO There is a constant goal guiding all these projects that are transforming the Company and preparing it for the future: to produce fashion in a responsible Throughout 2016, we worked on the constitution of the Realize Crédito, Financiamento way, ensuring the development of our business and the consequent e Investimento S.A. subsidiary. Finally, in November, we obtained the authorization of the sustainability of Lojas Renner S.A. Central Bank of Brazil to set up and formalize our own financial institution. In this sense, in 2016, we made significant progress in the Company’s commitment to sustainable development, aligning sustainability values with BENEFITS the business strategy through two significant initiatives. The financial institution will bring greater flexibility, agility and transparency in the The first initiative was the establishment of four strategic guidelines for management of financial products, supporting the retail operation – our core business sustainability, with objectives common to the business areas: – in the improvement of credit installment conditions, financing and customer loyalty. • responsible suppliers; • eco-efficient management; • employees, customers and community engagement; and • sustainable products and services. The other action was the incorporation of the sustainability theme in the Company’s Mission: “To be the best and largest fashion retailer in the Americas for the middle/upperSA upoi ppo o rt  Prod u o Eficien fo r Efficien t Prod teucti o n G4-2 class segment of customers with diverse styles, offering fashion, quality, competitive prices and services of excellence, enchanting and innovating, always in a sustainable way.” All of this has the objective of consolidating our medium and long-term expansion plan, 2016 SCENARIO mitigating risks and negative impacts as well as creating virtuous cycles of development In recent years, much work has been done to get a better understanding of our customers, offering the of the Company’s resources and capital. right products at the right time in line with the best fashion trends in the world. To this end, we work Consequently, we seek to ensure a performance that offers our customers fashion that closely with our suppliers to achieve the best quality, efficiency and reactivity. generates value from the preservation of resources and enchantment with all the links in In addition to all the gains made possible by advances in technology, systems, management and our value chain. logistics, another important highlight of 2016 was financing arranged from the Brazilian Development Bank (BNDES) for development projects at some of the Company’s trading partners. Learn more about our performance in each of Lojas Renner S.A.’s In all, the loan provides for the allocation of R$ 32.2 million to domestic resale suppliers to expand sustainability guidelines in the their productive capacity, modernize their manufacturing installations and train their employees. following pages. For the first time, the BENEFITS Company signed a financing agreement Supply chain development projects are essential for the continuity of Lojas Renner’s growth. They provide with Projects and Studies more agility in developing collections and are aligned to the best socio-environmental practices, ensuring Financer (FINEP) for a responsible supply chain (learn more on page 36). partially funding its Renner innovation projects.  Respo nsible RESALE SUPPLIER MANAGEMENT G4-12, G4-EC9 S u ppliers Resale suppliers are those that manufacture the products sold at Renner and Youcom stores. Considered critical links due to the risks involved in complying adequately with the current legislation, resale suppliers have the greatest potential for Lojas Renner maintains business relations with several companies that produce the items sold in the development and value generation in the Company’s supply chain. stores and with others that provide support services. In this context, one of the strategic objectives of sustainability is to generate value based on respect for the environment, human and labor rights in the To minimize the risks involved in its supply chain, all domestic suppliers of apparel, supply chain. accessories and footwear are certified by ABVTEX (Brazilian Association of Textile Trend in Resale Suppliers Management Retail), which assesses adherence of both suppliers and their subcontractors to good SUBTITLE: To this end, due to the specific characteristics of each group, the Company has the Administrative corporate practices of social responsibility and environmental protection. Areas of Compliance and Development Quality Suppliers Management and Resale Suppliers Management areas, dedicated to the relationship Overview of the supplier network in 2016 management and the initiatives of Renner and Youcom specifically focused on these business partners. In addition, Lojas Renner supports the development of these suppliers, raising In 2016, we did business with awareness among them regarding best market practices in three areas dedicated • Review of the IDGF, including financial assessment to the management of this relationship: Compliance, Development and Quality ADMINISTRATIVE SUPPLIERS MANAGEMENT 1,997 administrative of Resale Suppliers. • IDGF expansion for the entire jeans, knit fabric and woven fabric supply chains • Creation of the Suppliers Council The Administrative Suppliers Management area manages companies that provide and resale suppliers The Compliance area monitors labor and occupational safety issues through 2016 • Structuring of the partnership with Sebrae for the Productive Chain project technical visits made by Lojas Renner’s own team and promotion of training • Partnership with BNDES for access to credit lines project products and services that are not for resale in the Company’s stores. at a total sessions for suppliers and their subcontractors, disseminating good practices of trading volume of • Review of quality criteria for inspection procedures In 2016, Lojas Renner maintained business relationships with approximately 1,537 internal compliance. • Standardization of mandatory labelling to gain quality in the active suppliers of administrative services, these accounting to a total outlay of R$3.6 billion, internationalization of Renner stores The Development area monitors the performance of resale suppliers through R$1.1 billion in orders. Of this total, 4% is allocated to civil construction suppliers of which the Global Supplier Performance Index (IDGF). This encompasses commer• Restructuring of the department in two areas (Compliance and providing store modernization services as well as construction services in the case of the Company’s new stores. This work is subject to a specific assessment process 68% and 32% from cial, logistical, quality, financial and social responsibility criteria, which guide Development) and structuring of proprietary technical visits system • 100% of footwear and accessories suppliers certified by ABVTEX from resale administrative the development of these companies and the mitigation of the risks involved. for mitigating the socio-environmental risks arising from this activity. • Continuous Improvement Program focusing on the Lean The area also has a technical team that promotes actions with suppliers, suppliers suppliers. 2015 Manufacturing concept seeking improvements and competitive gains through training, awareness • Risk Monitoring Program CIVIL CONSTRUCTION SUPPLIERS campaigns or development programs, called Continuous Improvement • Re-adjustment of quality assurance Lojas Renner S.A.’s civil construction suppliers are considered a critical Programs for inculcating the Lean Manufacturing concept. structure and procedures point in the administrative suppliers’ chain due to the nature of their In turn, the Quality area operates at the different phases of the producactivities, which involve environmental and occupational health and tion process – development, production and post-production – in order • Start of ABVTEX Certification of shoes and accessories 2014 safety issues. Activities are therefore, subject to a specific management to ensure the quality and standard of the products according to 12 specif• Continuous Improvement Program focused on quality process in order to ensure compliance with our commitments, values ic quality manuals. Tests for observance of ABNT standards are conductand guidelines. ed for all phases of manufacture at our textile analysis laboratory to sim• Structuring of Renner’s technical visits team and the The Civil Construction Suppliers Management process was launched Trend in Administrative ulate the impacts on products of pilling, dimensional changes (shrinkage 2013 Continuous Improvement Program in June 2015 at a workshop involving the chain’s main suppliers Supplier Compliance and stretching), solidity (transfer and color fading) and flexometry (wear • 100% of clothing suppliers certified by ABVTEX in the rest of Brazil (Building Managers, Construction Companies and Architectural and tear of shoes when walking). • Expansion of the Global Supplier Performance Index Firms), and it operates in line with Lojas Renner’s Administrative (IDGF) for administrative suppliers contemplating the • Structuring of the Resale Supplier Management Department and of the Overview of resale suppliers in 2016 IDGF supplier performance indicator. Suppliers Training Program. Training Program specifically for the civil construction 2012 460 active domestic segment with commercial, technical, social and • 100% of apparel suppliers certified by ABVTEX in the state of São Paulo 2016 The Program provides for the engagement, monitoring and compliance assessments. • Supplier training program auditing (by an independent company) of domestic suppliers of • Start of the Partnership Program with suppliers to the Architecture and Engineering Department. and international civil construction services involved in the store expansion plan suppliers (Renner and Youcom), totaling • Start of the ABVTEX Certification Program and based on commitments to respect the legislation and best structuring of the Growing Together Program a trading volume of 2011 and Renner Sewing Schools Program practices in occupational safety, environmental questions and • Launching of the Architecture and Engineering social responsibility. 2015 Department’s Training Program, assessing compliance through inspections of construction R$2.5 billion Learn more about the work sites and accommodation and ratification of relationship process with Learn more about the relationship with civil construction civil construction suppliers. 64% for domestic suppliers 1999 • Membership of ABVTEX domestic resale suppliers –selection, monitoring and suppliers on page 19 of Booklet 2. 36% for international suppliers control and the development pillars – on page 19 of Booklet 2.  En g a g emen t The engagement of stakeholders is directly related to the Company’s enchantment culture: ENGAGED EMPLOYEES Engaged professionals evolve Enchanted customers are Consistent results support A healthy company generates and Lojas Renner S.A.’s main strength lies in personally and professionally and loyal, and loyal customers shares value with the communities and a healthy business. its differentiated and committed team of enchant customers. deliver consistent results. stakeholders with which it relates. professionals, aligned with its culture. All 19,018 employees throughout the country take the In line with one of the strategic plan’s guidelines, in the next few years, we will promote customer and employee awareness on sustainability as a way of enchantment culture to every one of the Company’s multiplying enchantment with even more responsible fashion. stakeholders. Learn more about the profiles of our professionals on page 12 of Booklet 2. FOCUS ON CUSTOMER G4-PR5 Renner Enchanting customers is part of our essence – it is one of our corporate pillars. More than 20 years ago, we created the Enchantmeter, a pioneering initiative in Brazil, which measures the customer The Company maintains a close relationship with its employees, encouraging them to achieve their full shopping experience at the exit of every Renner store. This is one of the Company’s differentials in potential for personal and professional development. Comparison of the engagement the fashion retail market and a tool already part of the customers’ shopping routine. At the end of index with the sector their shopping experience, customers are able to choose between “Very Satisfied”, “Satisfied” or Lojas Renner invests in establishing a favorable 95% participation (13,269 employees) “Unsatisfied”. (Learn more in Booklet 2, page 25) climate in the workplace where people feel themselves ) ) to be valued and recognized – and in line with our goal % We are also alert to the opinions, demands and expectations of our customers in the digital Global Fashion: 54% 8 2% (84 of attracting and retaining the best talent. (2015: 71%) 46% Brazilian Retail (64%) 4( 01 5 world, increasingly connected with the profiles of each of our businesses. 01 t2 Global Retail: 60% e r2 en 72% nn em (2015: 62%) e ag ) Footprint of For more than 20 years now, Renner has been Neutral sR an 87% o ja in M 5 ( 7%) conducting an annual engagement survey Zone L st 0 1 8 brands in social WWW Be 2 er 2016 ( nn networks (monthly hits covering all employees, online and on a voluntary s Re nner (fans) (followers) (followers) (followers) ja on blogs) Lo as Re and anonymous basis. The results show that the Lo j 8,376,686 3,143,017 90,199 300,894 22,173 Company is on the right track. In 2016, 95% of Critical Zone Renner’s employees participated in the survey and 664,805 312,000 8,397 23,145 2,433 for the second consecutive year, the result was an High Performance Zone engagement index of 87% much higher than the 0% 100% 789,190 99,493 1,885 29,681 global fashion sector average of 54% and the retail Survey Period: February 22 to March 18, 2016 average as a whole of 60%. Source: Aon Hewitt Customer Service Channels At Camicado, the engagement index reached 79%, an improvement of 15 percentage points over the previous year. Website with exclusive Trend in the 87% 87% FACEBOOK CONTACT US 85% CHAT ONLINE interface that directs These positive engagement rates have also been engagement index over 82% Contact us with average reply By phone and via contacts to the Via corporate website time of up to 72 hours by email corporate website responsible areas reflected in the reduction of our turnover rates, the last 10 years 76% Renner, Camicado and Youcom offer the above tools in a personalized way to their respective stakeholders which improved 8.3 p.p. at Renner and 10.0 p.p. at 72% Camicado. In addition to knowing the customer and maintaining a close relationship in order to 68% At Youcom, although an engagement survey has 64% In 2016, 18.3 million customers’ continue enchanting them, the Company has developed a number of initiatives for 62% improving store efficiencies. The objective is to reduce the time dedicated to administrative not yet been conducted, turnover also improved by 59% opinions were collected through and management tasks, allowing employees to focus more on customer service and to 11.45 p.p. ‘Enchantmeters’, with 97% being very satisfied or satisfied. provide a better shopping experience. Learn more on pages 30 to 34. 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016  Training at the DC (Rio de Janeiro) As part of EMPODERA, in 2016, the Institute’s selection of projects was focused on the empowerment of women specifically in the textile chain at an investment of R$1.5 million. During the year, one of the key events at EMPODERA was participation in the “Empowering Female Refugees” project of the Brazilian Network of the Global Compact, UNHCR (The UN Refugee Agency), UN Women and the PARR (Brazilian Refugee Resettlement Support Program). Under the umbrella of this project, the Lojas Renner Institute promoted the first Sewing School groups exclusive to refugees from African countries and aimed at their inclusion and employability in Brazil. Based on this experience, the Fashion School was created, a project that will be implemented in 2017 to promote women’s empowerment in the textile sector, covering different aspects of the fashion value chain, as well as training women in industrial sewing activities. Learn more about the projects supported by the Company in Booklet 2, page 23. Training and Development G4-LA9 Renner’s corporate education program aims to develop skills that The Company develops its leadership to train future leaders and as custodians are critical to business with a focus on the Enchantment Culture, of the organizational culture, investing continuously in structured programs for Inspiring Leadership, Business Management, Fashion and Product and training and career follow-up. Renner also has a Succession Plan, created to map Sustainability, through face-to-face or online training and on-the-job and develop potential successors for all of the Company’s key positions, which are: structured development. In this way, we seek to prepare employees Officers, General Managers and Senior Managers (Procurement and Stores). for current and future challenges, always driven by business strategies. COMMUNITIES G4-EC8, G4-SO1 As a large Company reaching millions of people, Lojas Renner believes that it has great potential, responsibility and opportunity to generate development and well-being in society. In 2016, the Institute redesigned its strategic plan in order to Mindful of this, the Lojas Renner Institute was founded in 2008 for promoting the economic define its focus and bring it and social empowerment of women in the textile value chain through the management of the closer to Lojas Renner S.A.’s Company’s private social investments in social projects. values, goals and core business. The Institute’s focus is in line with the fifth goal of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) This process resulted in the – “Achieve gender equality and empower all women and girls” – and its commitment to UN’s updating of its Mission, which Women’s Empowerment Principles. is now: Lojas Renner S.A., the Lojas Renner Institute and UN Women work to have a positive impact on “To promote the economic and the value chain, setting up EMPODERA, a program that invests in initiatives aimed at women’s social empowerment of women empowerment through the participation of employees, suppliers and partners. in the textile value chain”. First Sewing School group for refugees and members of UN Women, Lojas Renner and Lojas Renner Institute.  (Continued – ECO-EFICIENT MANAGEMENT) Eco -efficien t Ma na g emen t G4-EN7, G4-EN27 In 2016, Renner opened its second sustainable store in Riomar Presidente Kennedy Shopping Mall in Fortaleza (CE) and for which LEED certification is pending. To ensure the long-term sustainability of our operation, we The inauguration of the new headquarters in Porto Alegre was Based on the knowhow acquired from the construction of Renner’s first sustainable store, since 2014, all our construction projects or understand the importance of minimizing the negative impacts one of the main events of 2016. The result of the Company’s renovations have adhered to the Architecture and Engineering Department’s technical memorandum, a compendium of best practices of the business on the environment. Last year, this commitment commitment to eco-efficient initiatives, the building was learned, setting out sustainable standards for our projects. became part of the Company’s strategic plan in the form of two constructed in a totally sustainable way in accordance with basic objectives: identify, measure and reduce water, energy, LEED (Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design), an chemicals, waste and emissions; and innovate in the development internationally recognized green building system of certification. of raw materials and lower impact processes. During not only its construction but also when in use, the building employs several strategies for minimizing environmental impacts. ECO-EFFICIENCY INDICATOR HIGHLIGHTS IN 2016 We reduced Renner's energy We recycle 98.5% of the waste We neutralized 100% consumption by 11% generated by Renner’s stores* of our 2015 greenhouse (considering the same base *considers waste monitored in kg, neither including furniture gas emissions for 2015) disposed due to renovations nor organic waste. Learn more about these projects, our indicators and eco-efficiency projects and projects for the mitigation of the environmental impacts of the business on page 26 of Booklet 2. S ustai na ble Prod ucts a nd Services G4-EN27 We have been analyzing the entire value chain in order to identify opportunities for improving programs to mitigate the environmental impact of our products and services. PRODUCTS SERVICES ECOSTYLE Since 2015, we have analyzed the environmental footprint of a In addition to several eco-efficiency The EcoStyle Program already basic pair of women’s jeans sold in our stores using the Life Cycle initiatives – such as the improvement operates a reverse logistics scheme Analysis (LCA), which identifies the impacts of a product from of environmental indicators and the for perfume and beauty product “cradle to the grave”. development of raw materials and lower packaging. This has now been impact processes – the Company aims to extended to a pilot version for In 2015, the LCA studied the carbon footprint and, in 2016, its water offer its customers alternative sustainable customers’ unwanted clothes. footprint, in order to develop improvements and actions that can products and services. mitigate the negative impacts of the product on the environment at The objective was to reinsert these the raw material extraction phase through usage to final disposal. To this end, Lojas Renner began planning clothes back into the textile chain, New headquarters reducing waste generation and raw of the Company in different actions in 2016 for offering a In 2016, the sustainability project in the jeans chain was expanded product line with a lower environmental material extraction and encouraging Porto Alegre and integrated into the Continuous Improvement Program (PMC) footprint as from 2017, as well as income creation: the clothes collected and conducted jointly with knit fabric and woven fabric resale launching a pilot project that stimulates will be transformed and sold by social suppliers. Consequently, the scope of the environmental management the circular economy called EcoStyle – organizations supported by the Lojas improvements was extended to new links in the chain. post-sale reverse logistics in apparel. Renner Institute (learn more on page 32 of Booklet 2). Learn more about these projects on page 30 of Booklet 2.  5 ou r pilla r s Governa nce, 44 Ethics, 44 Risk Ma na g emen t, 45 Va lue Gen era ti o n, 46 Risk Ma na g emen t G4-2 The culture of ethics and transparency is also strengthened through the adoption of best international practices for the efficient risk management of the business. Governa n ce The Company has created a multidisciplinary governance structure, linked to the Board of Directors, with precise definition of responsibilities and institutional policies to mitigate risks and negative impacts, always identifying factors and scenarios that may affect our sustainability. Preventive plans are in place to reduce or even eliminate negative impacts or, alternatively, transform the identified risks into opportunities. As a publicly-held company for almost half a century – and, since In 2016, Lojas Renner continued to adhere to the most advanced corporate governance 2005, as the first widely held company in Brazil without a controlling practices and promote continuous improvements: the Manual for Shareholder Participation in shareholder – Lojas Renner has an irrevocable commitment to Annual Meetings was revised according to international proxy voting standards, pursuant to ethics and transparency, an essential and invariable condition when best practices, and the scope of the Compliance area was also broadened. Previously focusing The main risks to the Company's operations are: conducting business and when relating with all stakeholders. on financial compliance and operational issues only, starting 2017, the new structure will involve Corporate Compliance – together with the Internal Audit and Loss Prevention areas – with a The Company has always prioritized respect for the laws, transparency more strategic coverage, to include all Lojas Renner’s subsidiaries. in its negotiations and accessibility and equity of access to information by its shareholders. Learn more about our governance structure and practices on page 15 of Booklet 2. SECTOR RISKS AND EXTERNAL FACTORS that may impact the business Learn more in item 5.2 of the Reference Form • COMPLIANCE POLICY • CUSTOMER SERVICE AND CRM POLICY RISK CON TROL Ethics • FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT POLICY MAN • DISCLOSURE POLICY AGE ME Ethical conduct throughout the business value CURRENT AND FUTURE SCENARIOS AND • MATERIAL FACT DISCLOSURE POLICY CIRCUMSTANCES that could expose the Company NT chain is indispensable for the Company’s to risks in relation to its stakeholders sustainability and longevity. The Code of Ethics • DATA SECURITY POLICY PO Learn more in item 5.1 of the Reference Form and Conduct, published in 1995 and updated LIC periodically, is the instrument that guides, • RELATIONSHIP WITH RESALE SUPPLIERS POLICY clarifies and formalizes attitudes for ensuring IE General ethical conduct in the day-to-day relations with Manager • SUSTAINABILITY POLICY S all stakeholders. of Investor Relations and • AUDIT POLICY New Business All employees when hired are made aware of and adhere to the Code. If there are any changes in • ANTI-CORRUPTION POLICY Factors that can have negative results and impacts the publication, they must again declare their on the PERFORMANCE OF OUR OPERATION AND awareness of the expected conduct. All suppliers THE EXECUTION OF OUR STRATEGY • GOVERNANCE, RISK AND COMPLIANCE POLICY must also align with the Company’s values Learn more in item 4.1 of the Reference Form through an agreement, attached to the relative • RELATED PARTIES POLICY commercial contracts, representing a formal commitment to act in accordance with Lojas Renner S.A.’s ethical principles. The Reference Form is available at: https://goo.gl/G9AVxd  Va l ue Gen era ti o n G4-9 2016 SCENARIO: Resources Operations Interferences Results To lea rn m o re G4-31 Resources and relationships necessary for the sustainability of our business How operations Main risks to value The value generated from Learn more about the indicators on projects and strategies presented in this and the generation of financial and generate value from generation (learn more our performance for all our publication in “Booklet 2 – The Year in Detail”. non-financial value these resources on page 45) stakeholders and society If you have any questions or want to know more about some of the topics addressed in this report, we maintain an open channel to the Sustainability FINANCIAL RESOURCES HOW FINANCIAL EXTERNAL FINANCIAL Management team through the e-mail relatorio@lojasrenner.com.br VALUE IS CREATED R$512.6 million in Changes in local and global R$1.9 billion in R$6.7 million in investment in systems, Net debt of R$909.0 million Distributing profit to shareholders economic environment taxes and fees paid Private Social facilities, stores, logisto governments Investment Ackn o wled g men ts tics efficiency, etc R$5.7 billion in revenue Creating jobs and direct and Customer default for Brazil’s indirect income (value chain) development R$250.2 million from the sale of 643,550,575 shares Fiscal and monetary in dividends merchandise and R$2.2 and market value of Investing in social projects policy distributed to billion of receivables R$853.3 million in R$14.9 billion shareholders Contributing to the economy compensation to Regulatory by paying taxes, fees and employees R$571.0 million Coordination actions contributions in compensation OUR RELATIONSHIPS to third party Human Resources Department – Sustainability Management Supporting the availability of R$3.6 billion in Administrative, Financial and IR Department 19,018 employees capital (financial payments to financial resources for financial institutions and – Investor Relations Management About 14 million 1,997 suppliers, of product customers INTERNAL suppliers rents) users connected to which: 460 suppliers manufacture the Processes and Editorial design, content, GRI and Integrated Reporting Renner, Camicado and Youcom via products sold in stores operational failures consulting and translation Facebook, Instagram, and 1,537 suppliers of RICCA RI administrative products HOW NON-FINANCIAL Collections and product NON-FINANCIAL Pinterest, Twitter and riccari.com.br the brands’ Blog and services VALUE IS CREATED errors One of the best More than 20,000 Encouraging our suppliers to imDecline in customer companies to work for Brazilians benefited Graphic design, illustrations and layout prove their sustainability practices enchantment levels according to Você S/A from the Lojas CANHOTORIUM ARTE APLICADA MATERIAL RESOURCES (page 36) with 87% of employee Renner Institute’s 444 stores with an area Two stores and the Non-compliance with canhotorium.com.br engagement projects of 584,600 m2 administrative headquarters Supporting the women’s empowerment laws, regulations, are already classed as green and the generation of income through principles and rules in Suppliers in the jeans, 18.3 million Photographs Renner, Camicado and buildings; modernization customers Youcom E-commerce the Lojas Renner Institute (page 40) our operation knitwear fabric and STUDIO CONCI work and construction of wovens chains benefited enchanted, satisfied websites new stores are performed studioconci.com Contributing to the development of the Relationships that from the Continuous and very satisfied 4 Distribution Centers with an area of 117,000 m2 according to best ecoBrazilian textile sector through participaviolate our ethical Improvement Program with Renner’s HEADQUARTERS efficiency practices tion in ABVTEX (page 37) and innovation and sustainable (page 43) products and projects to minimize the environmental commitments services (page 38) Lojas Renner S.A. NATURAL RESOURCES impact in the use and handling of raw Reduction of 11.7% in materials (page 42) Reputational damage In 2016, Consumption of other natural 591,400 GJ of energy consumption by Renner’s stores neutralization Avenida Joaquim Porto Villanova, 401 resources in the operation of energy directly Endorsing commitments from nations Management’s decisionof 100% of the (considering the same stores and also of raw materials in and indirectly and companies for sustainable making processes that base of 2015) greenhouse gas CEP: 91410-400 – Jardim do Salso the production chain are not yet consumed development (page 10 of Booklet 2) generate losses emissions in 2015 measured on a consolidated basis Porto Alegre (RS) – Brasil Phone: +55 (51) 3272.2450 THIS REPORT IS A PRODUCTION OF LOJAS RENNER S.A. www.lojasrenner.com.br  2 0 1 6 A N N U A L R E P O R T
