Content Introduction 2 About our report A message from our Chairman & CEO ABOUT OUR REPORT An interview with our deputy CEO The 2015 JSC “National Company As one of the largest state employers, with over About KMG “KazMunayGas” (hereafter – KMG) Sustainability 80,000 people covering the entire oil & gas value Report presents the performance data of the chain, we are aware of our economic impact and Our operations and assets Group’s non-financial impacts. aspire to disclose extensive information on our results Our approach to 10 2015 – YEAR of HSE and achievements. We have adopted a balanced Sustainability This is the first report following the Comprehensive disclosure and also present the challenges we face in Our Stakeholders option of GRI G4 international standards, proving and the international and regional context and underline Material Aspects continuing our transparency commitments. the directions of potential development. Direction of work in 2016 We aim to integrate the stakeholders’ opinions into Transparency is our key value in strengthening relations our daily business decisions and operations, and Our people 18 Occupational Health and Safety with stakeholders for informed decisions and fair Process safety and assets integrity management point out our measures to integrate all environmental, business relations, in a very competitive international economic and social considerations during our market. For this reason, as of this year, we report both Caring for our people everyday activities. in the national currency, tenge, and USD. Employee Development Personnel Motivation The performance indicators include data on the To translate global sustainability trends into our Employee Evaluation financial, social performance as well as information business strategy, we have extended our analysis to Human Rights on indicators in the field of Health, Safety and identify all the areas where KMG produces impact, Grievance Mechanisms Environment. together with the aspects which are of high relevance In order to identify the borders of our impacts, as well for our stakeholders. We conducted the materiality assessment in order to prioritize our efforts and Our 26 Policy and Management as the material aspects, we have conducted research Energy Use and Energy Efficiency and asked for the input of subsidiaries, affiliated future prospects. environmental Water Management companies and joint ventures. All data is provided in relation to Group’s direct impact Air Quality Management activities and presented for the calendar years Data on economic and performance includes all Waste Management KMG subsidiaries. The environmental and social data 2014 and 2015 for the purpose of comparison. For Biodiversity provided includes information from subsidiaries and certain key data the previous three years have been Oil Spills JVs with more than 50% of KMG shares. published. For some performance indicators the Environmental Payments data on onshore and offshore activities is disclosed The outside impacts of the organization are measured separately. by socio-economic, environmental impact assessments Our 42 Engaging with Local Communities of our operations on local communities in regions The structure of the report follows the sustainability Communities Charity and Sponsorship strategic areas of KMG: our people and the of operations and analysis of customer’s feedback. workplace, with a high focus on the safety culture Biodiversity and water indicators illustrate impacts Product marketing and labeling and the environmental figures, as well as key studies Market 44 outside the organization by reporting on regions under Working with Clients from projects developed in the regions of operations our influence. Procurement Practices for local communities and projects implemented in Also, we did not include the indicators of the collaboration with our partners. European subsidiary KMG International, since they Our Economic 48 Operational and Financial Performance operate under EU legislation standards and published The Sustainability Report of KMG is approved by the Impact Financial Impact Chart BOD and brought to the attention of Stakeholders independent stand-alone G4 sustainability report. through different channels of communication, such as Abbreviations We report in line with IOGP requirements in order to publishing on a company website and distribution of Appendices 50 printed editions. Third party opinion benchmark our HSE performance against our industry Environmental & Biodiversity datasets peers. GRI Index Stakeholders feedback form Contact information 3 5 A Message from Our Chairman & CEO Dear partners and shareholders! In the current market climate we have achieved As a national company, we intend to develop our planned operational performance, with the further programs in the sphere of the Today it is not possible to increase company same number of workers at pre-crisis level of Sustainable development. We maintain that market value without such indicators as social guarantees. At meetings with employees the concept «successful business» and «socially business reputation, an index of a sustainable we monitor «social stability» in our production responsible business» are absolute synonyms. development for the business world that divisions and conduct collective agreements Informational transparency, actions aimed at illustrates companys and activities regarding with labor unions. ecological and production safety activities and the environment, work safety, corporate social stability in the regions of operations management, personnel and social issues. Sociological surveys conducted in 2015 KMG are elements of critical success factors for indicate that we have considerably improved As a leading player in the oil and gas industry responsible business practice. in the rating of social stability, in comparison of Kazakhstan, KMG pays close attention to with 2014. To a large extent it was promoted We are proud to be playing our part in the programs of sustainable development and social by the implementation of new programs, development of Kazakhstan’s social and responsibility. such as: the development of a Unified labour economic fabric. We believe that KMG can The non-financial reporting, presented remuneration system, creation of a “Succession make a long-term and, valuable contribution to in this report, comprises comprehensive pool” and some others. Systemic work in this sustainable development of Kazakhstan. information on company activities in the field direction resulted in the development of a fair of environment, production safety, social remuneration methodology that was further responsibility, development of personnel and adapted in KMG subsidiaries. Faithfully, public relations. KMG continues its active participation in The 2015 reporting year was devoted to solving of employment, education, health strengthening of these areas. Efficiency of our care, and sport related issues in operational departments responsible for life and human regions. Annually we sponsor and provide health has considerably increased. At present charitable donations to honored oil industry we can confidently say that our work on workers and veterans of the Great Patriotic Chairman of the Board occupational health and safety has significantly War. Our company provides targeted funding JSC NC «KazMunayGas» improved. of orphanages and boarding schools, physically Sauat Mynbayev disabled people, pensioners and low income In the area of environment, work was conducted families. We sponsor educational and health in the field of air quality management, waste projects; we promote the development of management, energy efficiency, conservation a state language and cultural heritage. We of biodiversity in regions we operate. We carry promote Kazakhstani sports activities and out monitoring of environmental risks, arrange events, such as: annual sponsorship of the public hearings, are open to dialogue and aim national federations of boxing, tennis and judo. to continuously improve our environmental In 2015, we spent a total of 6,8 billion tenge for protection management system. charity and sponsorship programs. Chairman of the Board JSC NC «KazMunayGas» Sauat Mynbayev Interview with our Senior Vice-President What does sustainable development mean performance. Subsidiaries provide their support we lost 3 colleagues in upstream and 1 to KazMunayGas? How do you understand in disclosing data on their non-financial impact in midstream and a further 99 workers sustainability in the context of 2015, and for this report, and also adhere to our common were injured. Incidents of this nature are particularly in the oil & gas sector? sustainable development efforts. unacceptable. Since sustainability incorporates economic, The only way we can continue to develop in 2015 was a significant year for the global social and environmental processes, we want community, with the 2030 UN sustainable a sustainable way is by operating safely. That our stakeholders to understand the operational is why we will continue to invest in training, development agenda adopted in September, challenges and risks we encounter and we and the COP Paris conference held in develop awareness campaigns such as “Chronic constantly seek ways to garner their support in December governing climate change reduction unease” (in collaboration with Shell) and moving forward. measures from 2020. “Golden Rules” to heighten vigilance, and other An important partner is our local communities. initiatives that ensure the safety of our teams 2015 also proved to be a challenging business We know that cooperation ensures the best and the integrity of our assets. environment in our industry, with the lowest oil outcomes and shared value. Thus, we hold prices in more than a decade. public consultations before commencing any Our corporate office conducted 24 in depth new projects to assess their needs and our safety audits in 2015, and one of the main Today, fossil fuels meet more than 80% of the social and environmental impact; we constantly goals was improving reporting transparency of global energy needs and Kazakhstan ranks 12th in the world in terms of oil reserves. engage in dialogues on what programs to HSE (Health Safety and Environment) related As the largest national oil & gas producer, introduce in order to ensure a continuous social information. This was significant as it required we understand our position and challenges. wealth improvement. An excellent example is new management behaviors towards reporting, Thus, for us sustainable development is not a the Memorandum of Understanding we signed and has allowed us to understand where our trend nor an addition to business operations, with the Mayor of Kyzylorda according to which problem areas are in order to address them. but simply something we must do to protect community members benefit from natural gas at a preferential price. Other projects have been We aspire to be in the Top Quartile of IOGP our employees, local communities and the undertaken in the region of Mangistau, where companies in terms of HSE performance by environment. we developed social programs and provided 2020. To achieve this goal, we have developed It is crucial for us to integrate SD principles in all financial support for medical trainings in the a 5-year roadmap that aims to improve the our operations from exploration and production value of $1 million. overall HSE performance. By implementing our to refining, trading and retail. initiatives, we aim to reduce the ratios of fatality By issuing this report, we communicate accidents and lost time injuries. Sustainability means operating business with our performance to the larger family of responsibility, with respect for people and their stakeholders, and look forward to receiving their We acknowledge the environmental impact of safety, local communities and the environment, feedback in order to measure our progress and our operations. Therefore, our specialists have and we will go the extra mile to achieve it. collaborate in view of future improvements. developed and implemented Climate Action programs and introduced initiatives on effective Given that KMG is a very large company, What were the focus areas of sustainability resource management. For example, we plan to how do you engage all subsidiaries and work in 2015? What is the nature of the decrease the amount of water withdrawal in the stakeholders on the journey towards projects in these areas throughout the future. In addition, we conducted energy audits sustainable development? reporting period? and developed a 5-year action plan for energy First Deputy Chairman conservation and efficiency that will allow us to JSC NC «KazMunayGas» One of our guiding principles, and the first step Safety is a priority for our company. Although reduce our energy consumption by 7%. Christopher Hopkinson to accountability, is transparency regarding our we had a strong focus on safety in 2015, 7 How do you address issues of climate change? Oil and gas are vital resources for socio-economic development of Kazakhstan and remain core to our business. Climate change is a growing concern and in order to continue business as usual we should consider it every time we take a strategic decision. We have plans to reduce our contribution to climate change and respond to risks and opportunities posed by this issue. For example, the two pilot methane detection projects we launched in 2015 have allowed us to put mitigation plans in place to curb methane emission into the atmosphere. Our main goal is 100% associated gas utilization, (zero flaring) in the very near future. Therefore, we have also endorsed the World Bank’s Initiative on “Zero Routine Flaring by 2030”. Our strategy also includes working with industry partners and governmental institutions to establish an effective policy and technological framework for reducing GHG (Greenhouse Gas) emissions. These actions already resulted in significant reductions of CO2 emissions. What are the company’s sustainability plans for 2016? A strong sustainability strategy, with a focus on building the corporate culture at all levels with all employees and achieving tangible results in terms of HSE, community development, human resources is essential to our business success. As national company, with over 80,000 employees and a top tax payer, we have an obligation to be consistent and develop for the long term, to deliver a significant portion of the country’s energy needs to support economic growth. Our goal is that KMG becomes a leader in what we do, not only financially and operationally, but with regards to sustainable development as this enhances long-term value and reliable business partnerships. About KMG The Board of Directors Yerlan Peter Christopher Sauat Frank Dauren Nurlan Baimuratov Lane Walton Mynbayev Kuijlaars Yerdebay Rakhmetov Yerlan Independent Peter Independent Christopher Independent Sauat Group Frank of Chairman Representative Dauren of Nurlan of Representative Director Director Director CEO the Board of Directors our Shareholders our Shareholders Baimuratov Lane Walton Mynbayev Kuijlaars Yerdebay Rakhmetov Independent Independent Independent Group Chairman of Representative of Representative of Director Director Director CEO the Board of Directors our Shareholders our Shareholders Nomination and Strategy and Finance Audit Remuneration Committee Innovation Committee Committee Committee Nomination and Strategy and Finance Audit Remuneration Committee Innovation Committee Committee Committee assists the BOD with recommendations drafts strategic development plans and provides recommendations on effective overviews the issues of on succession planning of the Board of investment policies financial policies both internal and external Directors and Management Board audits assists the BOD with recommendations recommends drafts corporate strategic governance development plans and assesses recommendations the financial stability provides on effective overviews the issues of provides a constant on succession andof planning objective the Board of improvements, investment policies financial policies overviews both aspects internal related and external assessment Directors andofManagement the employeesBoard monitors the implementation of KMG to financial reporting and audits provides recommendsplanning of financial corporate and governance assesses strategy financial the financial stability risk management ensures effective provides human a constant resources policy, and objective economic activities improvements, overviews aspects related and remuneration assessment of the employees monitors the implementation of KMG to financial reporting and In 2016, the provides focusof planning area financial committee of thisand financial strategy risk management ensures ensures social effective humanprofessional support, resources policy, will extendactivities with sustainable development economic development and training of employees and remuneration responsibilities In 2016, the focus area of this committee ensures social support, professional will extend with sustainable development development and training of employees responsibilities *as per 31.12.2015 9 Mission, Vision, Values Risk management approach Our ambition is to enter top 30 The corporate governance According to the Development Strategy KMG Group is committed to full compliance largest oil and gas companies of KMG to 2050, the mission of KMG is with all the legislative norms, policies and structure of KMG is constantly in the world in terms of oil and ensuring maximum benefits for the Republic of standards applicable to our activities. We being improved, in order to meet international standards condensate. Kazakhstan from participation in development conduct extensive work on identifying of the national oil and gas industry and through potential risks resulting from our activities and (ISO 9001, ISO 14001, ISO incorporation of sustainable development. implement necessary measures to mitigate or 27001) and to align with eliminate them. KMG created a separate Risk international best practices in We aim to increase return on investments this field. Department, Risk Management Committee and the Group’s value, while respecting the KMG consists of 202 organizations that shape within the Management Board and an Audit principles of sustainability and providing quality the KMG Group of Companies, which was Committee within the Board of Directors. The products and services. founded in 2002. The founder of KMG is the company adopted KMG Group corporate risk Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan We aim to become an effective oil and natural management policy, the risk map and register represented by the Committee for State gas group of companies with increased financial of risks, along with a policy on management of Corporate Governance Rating Property and Privatization of the Ministry of stability, respecting the highest safety standards financial risks. The BOD receives and considers Finance. KMG shareholders are JSC Sovereign in our production facilities and corporate reports on risk assessments on a quarterly basis. 2014 75% Wealth Fund «Samruk-Kazyna» (hereafter governance principles. KMG BOD revises and approves risk appetite Samruk-Kazyna Fund) (90%) and the National and tolerance limits and takes an active role 2015 79% In our daily work we are guided by the following in the development and endorsement of risk Bank of the Republic of Kazakhstan (10% + 1 corporate values: registry and risk mapping. share). Safety. The Company strives to ensure a KMG Board of Directors (BOD) determines the safe environment inside and outside the priority directions of the Company’s business organization, having as a key priority the health activity, approves the development strategy, and safety of our employees. taking into account economic, environmental The 2016 – 2017 Corporate and social impacts, and monitors the Responsibility. The Company is acting with Governance Action Plan of KMG aims implementation of its strategy. responsibility in fulfilling all the obligations at continuing the implementation of undertaken in front of shareholders, partners, processes, standards, and principles of The topics submitted for the agenda of the corporate governance in the following staff and the community at large. BOD are discussed within preliminary BOD areas: committee meetings. BOD decisions, adopted Professionalism. The company is committed during internal meetings, are recorded with Risk management and internal to interact with stakeholders in a highly complete details by the Corporate Secretariat; control; professional manner and to provide proper this entity acting as a liaison between the working conditions and opportunities for the Sustainable development, governance bodies and structural units delivers personal and professional development of including development of KPIs the orders issued by BOD to the Management employees. for management; Board and internal audit, and keeps the Board Efficiency. The company is committed to Remuneration and professional informed on the implementation timeline. continuous improvement of financial and training of entry-level operational performance, improvement of employees; management practices and technological The effectiveness of the Board solutions. of Directors; Relations with shareholders; Information disclosure. Our approach to sustainability As a large, state oil & gas company, we recognize The Code of Ethics sets unified behavioral the importance of our impact on the economy, standards for all KMG workers, irrespective environment and society. We incorporate of their position, and reflects our core values sustainable development principles and engage and ethical principles that shape our work. In in thoughtful and rational interactions with addition, the Code sets standards on interaction stakeholders to balance our common interests. with colleagues, governmental authorities, our shareholders, subsidiaries, business partners, Sustainable development is the development communities and media. The Code was approved that meets the needs of the present by KMG BOD in 2010. Compliance with the Code generation without compromising the ability is compulsory for all employees. Every 2 years, of future generations to meet their own KMG’s Board of Directors reviews the provisions needs (Report of the World Commission of this Code, examines the extent to which they on Environment and Development “Our common future”, United Nations, August 4, are implemented in practice and, if necessary, 1987). makes adjustments. Justice – our decisions and actions are in line We are not afraid of changes that are taking with the legislation, and are based on equal place in the World under the influence of a prolonged global crisis. We are ready for and just rights of all stakeholders them. Now our task keeping everything Respect for human rights We respect and we have achieved over the years of promote respect of human rights enshrined in independence, to continue sustainable the Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan development in the XXI Century. (Address of the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan and international documents such as the Nursultan Nazarbayev to the People of Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Kazakhstan «Strategy – 2050”, December 12, Intolerance to corruption corruption 2012). destroys the value created by our organizations for our shareholders, investors, other Stakeholders, and by society as a whole; PRINCIPLES we declare intolerance to the corruption in all its manifestations in collaboration with all OF SUSTAINABLE Stakeholders. DEVELOPMENT The prevention of conflict of interests serious violations related to conflict of interest may damage the reputation of Openness KMG and undermine its credibility in front of shareholders and other stakeholders; in relationship with stakeholders we are obliged Accountability to act with respect, with honesty, integrity, fair and loyal, taking actions to prevent, detect and eliminate conflicts of interest; Our approach Transparency Leading by example approach each of us in our everyday actions, behavior and decision-making situations can contribute to Sustainability Ethical behavior to the implementation of the principles of Sustainable Development. Top Management of the company states its commitment to SD principles. 11 Code of Ethics Along with a variety of special services The Code of Ethics is available to stakeholders designed for identification and prevention on the official website of the company in three 17 Organized trainings and seminars on anti-corruption, with the of potential ethical abuses and minimizing languages Kazakh, English, and Russian and on situations were signaled to the their consequences, the Company also uses a internal e-base EBD ISM. participation of employees, KMG Ombudsman corporate function of the Ombudsman, who representatives of the state is appointed by decision of the KMG BoD. authority and political parties. Anti-corruption In 2015, a road map to bring the mission concept was developed, the functions and The Economic Security Policy of KMG, tasks of the Ombudsman in compliance with approved by the Board of Directors in 2014. In 2015 we communicated In 2015 there were no registered international best practice. As part of this The document includes the core aspects of our anti-corruption policies cases of corruption at the level roadmap implementation a new «Regulations on the Ombudsman KMG» was developed and KMG’s activity in anti-corruption, fraud and other unlawful phenomena. Similar documents to 1874 suppliers and of KMG and its subsidiaries, or related to contractors and partners. approved. have been developed in KTG, KTO, KMG EP, KMG RM, and KMT. This Policy has been placed 155 other business partners In 2015, 17 situations were signaled to the on KMG corporate website in Kazakh, English KMG Ombudsman. The subject of the conflict and Russian languages to ensure 100% access were the interpersonal, psychological and and awareness of all the employees and other other conflicts in the workplace caused by the co-interested parties. Informative amendments violation of ethical, procedural or legal norms of on anti-corruption topics have been introduced business conduct and code of business. to the employment agreements and internal We have in place various mechanisms through documents, related to recruitment, placement which employees, business partners and and onboarding of employees. stakeholders may report any form of corporate Any employee of KMG or any other person is misconduct: entitled to inform the management of KMG, the Employees by contacting direct line direct manager or the authorized unit in case manager, or next level manager; or by of any doubt regarding the validity of actions contacting Ombudsman; of any employee, contractor or other persons cooperating with KMG. These reports can be Both from inside and outside the communicated through email and trust lines, organization via phone 786565, and treated with confidentiality. The trust line through KMG trust line email: doverie@ number and the e-mail address are placed on kmg.kz (information may be submitted the corporate website. Analogous information is anonymously). available on the sites of subsidiaries. In case of violation of KMG approved norms In accordance with the Rules on the of business ethics, the data collected on the organization of Risk management procedure non-conformity issue is submitted for the of KMG, approved through the Decision of consideration of the KMG Committee on Social the Management Board we evaluate the risks Responsibility and Business Ethics, with the concerning corruption in all subsidiaries and mandatory participation of the Ombudsman. affiliated companies. The rights of appeal of any person shall not be infringed. The members of the KMG Committee on Social Responsibility and Business Ethics guarantee the confidentiality of the consideration of information on violation of the Code. Our approach to sustainability North Kazakhstan Region РОССИЯ Kostanai Region Akmola Region West Pavlodar Region Kazakhstan Astana Region Atyrau Region Karaganda Region Aktobe region Mangistau Almaty R Region Kyzylorda Region Zhambyl Region УЗБЕКИСТАН South Kazakhstan КИРГИЗИЯ Region ТУРКМЕНИСТАН 13 Our Operations and Assets РОССИЯ KMG is in the Complex Action Plan for The management and employees of KMG are privatization, also there is an active program to involved in several steering committees and simplify the Group structure in the framework working groups of the Association. of implementation of action plans for Chairing Coordinating Councils on ecology, restructuring of KMG assets, approved by the social responsibility and transparency provides Board of Directors. In 2015, at KMG group level KMG with an opportunity to promote the 31 companies have been restructured, and the concept of SD in the oil & gas industry of restructuring of 12 companies has been partially Kazakhstan. implemented. Membership and Affiliations International Association East Kazakhstan As a key player on Kazakhstan’s oil & gas of Oil Transporters Region (IAOT): market, we engage with a wide range of industry associations, actively participate in In 2015, JSC “KazTransOil” (KTO) became a forums, national and international conferences. member of IAOT to strengthen international Chamber of Commerce oil transportation systems. The association addresses issues related to tariff formation, As a member of the diagnosis and exploitation of pipelines, oil National Chamber of transportation and storage. As a member of Commerce “Atameken” IAOT, KTO also participates in Energy working (Chamber), KMG is a proactive participant in group to share information and experiences in activities related to legislation improvements. the field of energy efficiency and to benchmark In 2015, with the help of KMG contributions, the performance with other members the Chamber reviewed more than 300 claims, association. developed 110 investment projects for regional development and provided more than 2500 egion of consulting services free of charge for small Oil Spill Response businesses. Limited (OSRL) КИТАЙ LPP “KMG Systems Legend KazEnergy: and Services” is a member of International association on oil spills response. Membership Kazakhstan Association with OSRL guarantees readiness for liquidation UPSTREAM of oil and gas companies of emergency oil spills of 2nd and 2rd level. MIDSTREAM «KazEnergy» is a nonAlso it assists with minimization of safety risks, commercial organization, established in 2006, environmental protection during offshore works OIL PIPELINES to support Oil and Gas enterprises and forge in the Caspian region. relationships among state authorities and Oil GAS PIPELINES and gas industry. Since the Association was founded KMG has been playing a crucial role in the development and implementation of its initiatives and programs. Our approach to sustainability 2015: “YEAR OF HSE” Our stakeholders In 2015 KMG Group focused on health, safety transparency and concrete evidence of by 2030 compared to the base year of 1990 as We have a wide range of stakeholders that and environment. Our activities in the field of increased commitment of our people, including stated in the Intended Nationally Determined are influenced by our activities or can have environmental protection were shaped by the changes in the safety behavior. Programs and Contribution (INDC) to the Paris Agreement. an impact on our success, are kept informed “Concept for transition of Kazakhstan to Green initiatives implemented can be found in the regularly, whether they are individuals or large Economy”, whereas the UN Millennium SD Environmental part of the report. Moreover, we continue to pursue the course set scale organizations. goals have influenced our actions in the field of by the President of Kazakhstan in his Address In order to contribute to the implementation of to the nation in 2015, “Kazakhstan – 2050 One of our main goals, stated in the Corporate occupational health and safety. the 3rd Millennium Sustainable Development Governance Code, is to build trusted strategy” and the Conception of Kazakhstan Moreover, as we stay committed to our principle Goal “good health & wellbeing”, we have relationships with our stakeholders through on transition to Green economy. We have of treating local communities with dignity conducted extensive work on improving the transparent reporting. conducted energy audits in our subsidiaries to and respect, we keep looking for new ways health conditions of our workforce, starting develop an energy efficiency Road map in 2016 We understand the importance of our impact to ensure social stability in the regions where with benchmarking the “health status” of with further implementation of the action plans on the national economy, environment and we operate. In 2015 we started an innovative the employees. Following the results of our in KMG subsidiaries. societywhile seeking the long-term growth of technique for measuring the social stability in analysis, we investigated a number of health our business, hence we ensure to take into these regions. This tool enables us to identify issues in upstream and service companies of The chosen direction of work can contribute account balanced interests and expectations of the areas of social stress and concentrate our the Mangystau region and created actions to to building long-term economic growth of all our stakeholders. activities on improvements in these particular improve the situation. . our company, increase its value, strengthen regions. Such target-based approach allows company’s position on the international market Given the different nature of our stakeholders us to develop specific preventive measures we have a number of mechanisms in place for Direction of work in 2016 and make it more resilient to the fluctuations that better meets and fulfills the community constant engagement with each of them, via from the oil and gas industry. expectations. meetings, seminars, forums, direct discussions, We contribute to the aims set by the joint partnerships, focus groups etc. development strategy of Kazakhstan on local, national and international levels towards Our sustainable development long-term economic growth, environmental strategy, as a national company, protection and social development. is aligned with the development Our targets for 2016 are based on the analysis of the State of 2015 results, the gaps and weaknesses identified in our work, expectations of our sole shareholder, international best practicies and In order to contribute to the implementation local communities we operate in. Our guiding environmental principles We have chosen the following HSE of national plans such as “Strategy 2050”, throughout the year were national targets: “Conception of Kazakhstan on transition Therefore, HSE continues to be our focus in goals of the Green Economy Concept: Occupational safety: to green economy” and Kazakhstan’s 2016 to continue developing the safety culture environmental commitments to the international through leadership engagement, employee increasing the welfare of the to increase reporting transparency initiatives/frameworks, such as Rio de Janeiro empowerment, training of our supervisors and workers and awareness campaigns to raise the population and the quality of Occupational health: principles, Paris Agreement and World Bank visibility of HSE. the environment through cost“Zero Routine Flaring by 2030”. to improve health conditions effective ways to mitigate the of our workers, particular the Our work on occupational safety has been KMG fully dedicates its efforts to minimize the pressure on the environment; Mangystau region dedicated to raising awareness around this consequences of our activities. This in turn will theme and to increase reporting transparency. contribute to implementation of Kazakhstan’s increasing the efficiency of Environmental protection: We have achieved significant results, a more climate action plans, such as the country’s resource use and improving to decrease flaring of associated than four-fold increase in the reporting target of 15%-25% reduction in GHG emissions management practices. petroleum gas 15 The list of Stakeholders includes, but not limited Contribution, impact Expectations, interest Our approach to engagement & addressing topics & areas of interest to: Competitive salary, proper & safe labor conditions, General meetings, quarterly & annual reports; constant, direct interactions Human resources, loyalty, Labour productivity, Employees, officials professional development, respect of human at various management levels; focus group discussions, surveys, corporate occupational and environmental safety rights, social guarantees and compensations websites, hotlines, informational desks Profitability of investments, timely payment of Financial resources (equity capital, loans); dividends, interest; maintenance of reputational Code of conduct; internal policies & standards; reports; operational and Shareholders regulatory documents for the Fund’s image, increase of reserve, improvements of financial performance feedback; engagement surveys; internal newspapers subsidiaries corporate governance Operational activities, compliance with Development of a quality internal regulatory Code of conduct; internal policies & standards; reports; audits; meetings; Subsidiaries legislation, internal normative documents, documents base, representation of interests in constant, direct interactions at various management levels; engagement maintenance of reputational image front of governmental authorities, associations surveys; internal newspapers Local communities, Support in places of activity; annual reports; Environmental Impact Assessment; community meetings; population in places Loyalty and support of local authorities; Creation of new jobs, development of the region; foundations & trusts; social projects; funds & trusts; feedback on reports and of activity, public Favorable attitude; ecological stability; transparency quality of services and products; publications in media and company's official organizations cooperation website; site visits; hotlines, mailing services Compliance with legislation; Creation of new jobs, Taxes, enhancement of socio-economic Audits; ecological expertise; Memorandums on cooperation; participation in Government, state State regulation; taxes and royalties development of regions solving; ecological events, forums & working groups; responses to requests for information; state authorities stability; responsible and efficient use of labour statistical reports and natural resources; transparency Reliable market, constant customer’s credit Supply of resources (goods, works and Кодекс деловой этики; политики и стандарты; социально ответственное Suppliers worthiness; Compliance with contractual services) to add value партнерство; партнерство для поддержания местного содержания obligations, Respect for employees’ rights in all entities where Promoting social stability, regulating labor Meetings of executives with labour unions; community meetings; collective Labor unions KMG holds any % of shares, social guarantees and relations and conflicts resolution agreements; EIA; regular meetings and personal communications; hotlines compensations Financial resources by procurement of Participation in multi-stakeholder forums; feedback on reports and quality of High-quality, safe products and services at Clients products (goods and services) of the services and products; publications in media and company's official website; affordable price Organization site visits; hotlines, mailing services Active participation in working groups, Participation in industry forums, conferences; membership in the working Creating a platform for interaction and sponsorship, transparency, representation and groups on social and environmental issues; surveys and studies; regular Associations exchange of experience with other oil and gas building relationships with government agencies, meetings and personal interaction; publication in media and company's official organizations and government agencies. best practices and innovations. website; hotlines; mailing services More detailed information and examples of our stakeholders’ engagement may be found within this report Our approach to sustainability Sustainability issues identified as “material” for KMG Third party opinion Third party opinion In selecting the content for this report, suggested by the respondents. The we applied the “materiality principle”. The information for the report was gathered Association Society of materiality assessment takes into account based on the priority level assigned after KazEnergy Petroleum that reported information covers topics the consultation with stakeholders. acknowledge the Engineers and indicators which would substantively active participation of In addition, we have taken into influence the assessments and decisions KMG in norm-setting On behalf of SPE Astana considerations topics to be covered by of the Group and stakeholders. activities to improve the environmental Section, we would like to express our sincere “KazEnergy” in their 2015 report, since it legislation of the RoK. Due tо KMG activities appreciation to KMG Group for the support and These are: is a consolidated report that represents in the field of environmental protection, active participation in our activities. areas of interest to all Kazakhstan oil & changes are made to the regulations based The Group’s impact as an oil & gas gas industry. on a balanced combination of economic SPE Astana Section was established in April operator to the society and the growth and preservation of a favorable 2013 to collect, disseminate and exchange environment. The results and the levels of disclosure technical knowledge concerning the exploration, environment for future generations. considered the scale of importance to development and production of oil and gas Management’s requirements for stakeholders, and the common vision of resources among experts and students. Our information and market analysis. During 2015, with the active participation the sustainability reporting working team. platform provides opportunities for professionals of the KMG, the business community Conclusions from dialogues with successfully implemented amendments to to enhance their technical and professional In 2015 we revised the list of our key co-interested groups. the Environmental Code with the purpose of competence. At the moment, more than 140 stakeholders, which in turn strongly solving issues in the field of environmental experts and 470 students are involved in our International initiatives and guidelines influenced the process of materiality activities in Astana and they are representatives for sustainable development, matrix development. Closer engagement protection. of national and private operators, service especially GRI and good practice in with our stakeholders broadened the providers, consulting companies and national scope of aspects identified as material Additionally, KMG members of the working the oil & gas industry. universities. for the reporting year of 2015. groups presented the initiatives and Disclosure requirements from stock proposals to the improvement of the labor Since 2013, SPE Astana Section has hosted exchanges, analysts, rating agencies, legislation as part of drafting the Labour numerous events including Distinguished institutional investors and other Code in 2015. Lectures, Technical Presentation, Caspian interested parties. Technical Conference and Exhibition (together Our goal is to prioritize KMG has taken an active part in the with SPE International), Roundtable Discussions, The process of identifying relevant development of the List of oil and gas Charity, Energy4Me and various social events. sustainability topics included internal and the views according to industry professions, grouped by type of external documents and audit reports their importance for the We would like to express our gratitude to the top work and areas of professional activity, in management of KMG Group for hosting lectures of the Samruk-Kazyna Fund, meetings, community and the Group, which professions are allocated. This list on “KMG – a company in transition”, sharing their corporate policies and procedures, as is an important step towards the creation and subsequently plan for of sectoral occupational and educational experience on KMG Transformation Program well as surveys on various sustainabilityand active participation in SPE workshop “Key related topics registered at the level of further actions. standards. Upstream Science & Technology Challenges of KMG. the Oil and Gas Industry of Kazakhstan” during KazEnergy recognize consecutive steps of the KazEnergy Eurasian Forum. Employees of the Group were invited to KMG in the improvement of environmental evaluate the topics covered by the GRI legislation, sustainable development and Our joint work has been productive in 2015 and indicators in terms of business impact social responsibility expanding in oil and gas we looking forward to fruitful collaboration in including topics of personal interest industry of the Republic of Kazakhstan. future. which they would like to see disclosed in the report. The second step was to General Director, Sincerely, scale all the predefined items based Bolat Akchulakov SPE Astana Section on average results and list the topics 17 17 Supplier human rights assessment 15 24 3 18 Human rights grievance mechanisms 32 19 Materials 49 33 36 20 Energy 21 Water 23 high 48 45 22 Biodiversity 37 1 46 6 23 Emissions 42 47 43 24 Effluents and Waste 38 44 25 Products and Services 5 12 26 Compliance 6 27 Transport 9 13 14 4 2 21 28 Overall importance to stakeholders 27 29 Supplier Environmental Assessment medium 50 28 7 30 Environmental Grievance Mechanisms 25 22 31 Local communities 35 31 20 29 39 32 Anti-corruption 34 18 33 Public policy 26 34 Anti-competitive behaviour 19 35 Compliance 40 16 low 36 Emergency preparedeness 10 41 8 17 37 Asset integrity & process safety 38 Involuntary resettlement low medium high 39 Supplier assessment for impacts on society impact on the company 40 Grievance mechanisms for impacts on society 41 Customer Health and Safety 42 Product and Service Labeling (reputation) 1 Employment 9 Investment 43 Marketing Communications 2 Labour/Management Relations 10 Non-discrimination 44 Customer Privacy 3 Occupational Health and Safety 11 Freedom of association and collective bargaining 45 Compliance 4 Training and education 12 Child Labor 46 Economic Performance 5 Diversity and equal opportunity 13 Forced or compulsory labor 47 Market Presence 6 Equal remuneration for women and men 14 Security practices 48 Indirect economic impacts 7 Supplier assessment for Labour Practices 15 Indigenous rights 49 Procurement Practices 8 Labour practices Grievance mechanisms 16 Assessment 50 Reserves Our people Our employees are our main value and main Occupational and asset. The level of their professionalism and process safety indicators safety impacts directly on the results of our activity and the value created for investors. Therefore, we are striving to attract in an Indicator 2014 2015 open and transparent manner the professional candidates from the labor market and educate Hours worked (million) 183,60 181,20 our employees based on the principle of meritocracy, ensure their safety and develop Kilometers driven 157,60 149,90 motivational and development programs. (million) Work related fatalities 6 4 Occupational Safety & Health Work related FAR per 3,26 2,18 According to KMG policy in the field of HSE, 100 million man-hrs the main objective for 2012-2016 is to reduce Non-work related the level of injuries and accidents at work, to 18 19 fatalities ensure the safety of employees, to eliminate the damage to environment and preservation of Lost time injuries 36/68 99 assets, and to improve the image and reputation of KMG. LTIR per 1 million 0,35 0,54 man-hrs KMG HSE Transformation Committee monitors the HSE performance, identifies areas of Motor vehicle accidents 10 66 improvement and makes recommendations in the field of occupational, health and process MVAR per 1 million km 0,10 0,43 safety, and environmental protection. driven We comply with requirements of the Republic Total number of of Kazakhstan Labor legislation for incidents process safety events at 2 3 and accidents reporting & investigation production sites procedures. The major goal for 2015 was to identify and register all incidents that occurred in our subsidiaries, in particular the actual Transparency and full disclosure on incidents number of LTIs and motor vehicle accidents. allowed us to study and conduct a root cause Introduction of a KPI on «Reporting analysis of all incidents, to identify the major Transparency» (RT) for the management risks and focus areas in 2016 to prevent team was the first step on the way to improving reoccurrence of similar incidents. the HSE culture of our people. The program on reporting transparency was initiated as on 36 LTIs were reported to corporate center in 2014, a figure considered low with the nature and We aspire to be in the Top Our people range of our activities. After numerous audits Quartile of IOGP companies conducted in 2015 a further 30 Lost Time in terms of HSE by 2020 Incidents were uncovered and added to the number reported for 2014. 19 In 2015, to improve safety culture and decrease Golden Rules occupational injuries we implemented the following: Four fold increase in Reporting 75% of all 99 injuries in 2015 fall into four groups: Transparency Construction, Drilling and Introduction and implementation of Golden Workover, Maintenance and Rules Transportation Reporting Transparency KPI Be fit for work Drive safely, wear your seat belt, 70% of the injuries in 2015 80% of all 99 injuries in Implementation of 3 Policies: were in the Upstream and the 2015 also fall into four groups: follow speed limits, don’t use mobile device Services Business Units Slips/Trips/Falls, Falling from HSE policy; Height, Driving and Struck by Land transport safety policy Alcohol and drug policy. Also, we have developed an incident notification & investigation procedure. All of the programs, procedures and other regulatory Work with a Verify isolaton before documents were designed on a corporate level, valid permit work begins and with a further adaptation and endorsement in when required use the specified life each KMG subsidiary. protecting equipment An HSE awareness program was created and delivered to the workforce consisting of the following. A 10 minute Chronic Unease video developed by KMG in cooperation with Shell Lessons-learned reports delivered monthly to all employees Obtain authorization Protect yourself before entering against a fall when General Directors Forum on a topic a confined space working at height “Leadership in HSE” A corporate HSE intranet portal where all references to safety can be found Interactive materials (brochures, calendars, presentations) on “Golden Rules” for all employees 24 safety audits conducted in 2015 by the Position yourself in a Lifting operations corporate HSE team safe zone near moving safety and energized Working Groups for each HSE segment were equipment created to tap into the expertise from across KMG . Our people Occupational health Process safety We comply with the following RoK legislation and We aim to comply with the international standards such Non-work Related Fatalities international requirements in terms of health and safety as API and DNV to ensure continuous improvement of of our employees: Labor Code, Health Code, Sanitary process safety management systems. norms and regulations. To raise awareness about process safety risks all 2014 In 2015, 20 non-work related fatalities occurred, of which subsidiaries are informed about the events that occurr 18 70% were a result cardiovascular diseases. To address this in KMG through shared flash alerts and lessons learned 2015 issue we are developing a corporate wellness program reports. 20 in 2016. Moreover, in 2015, key KMG subsidiaries In 2015, 3 process safety events of loss of primary cardio-vascular diseases a reason of 70% of cases signed Collective Employment Agreements with Labour containment with insignificant financial damages and with Unions that agreed on the liabilities and responsibilities no injuries occurred. of parties in terms of occupational health and safety. These Agreements also include measures on safe working Types and severities of incidents and accidents are based conditions, social guarantees, compensations and on legislation requirements. However, to comply with hardship allowances for improvement of workers’ health the international reporting standards and to benchmark Sick leaves (days) status. our performance with other international Oil and Gas companies, we will also report to IOGP standards in The health status of workers is monitored ona regular 2016. 335 170 basis through: 2014 Risk-based approach for Asset Integrity Management will Annual medical check-ups of workers; 2015 320 100 be introduced. Pre-shift medical examinations; A 5-year action plan has been developed that includes: Periodic attestation of facilities for working conditions determination of the current state of equipment assessment. integrity ; To promote a healthy life style and effectively manage determination of the number of ruptures on pipelines; LTIs by Business Unit in 2015 occupational health issues we completed the following actions in 2015: development of the corporate standard; 43 Created an occupational health and hygiene working trainings and workshops for management teams and 2014 group with representatives from different business HSE specialists; 2015 units of KMG and conducted several meetings at production units; GAP-analysis of cost effectivness of asset programs; 31 27 Occupational safety specialists are identified and development and introduction of KPIs; 25 assigned where needed; allocation of budget for intended actions. Completed 16 audits to ensure the compliance with corporate and state requirements; 7 7 Audited facilities, dorms, canteens and medical points 4 4 4 4 at production units; Subsidiaries developed action plans for 2016 EP Services КМG КТG КТО RM to improve the health management system and Upstream prevention of illnesses. 21 Care for our people Plans for 2016 The KMG Group of companies introduced a guaranteed social package which Seat belts installation in includes different types of social benefits and compensations, such as: payments all KMG owned vehicles related to paternity and bereavement (90% implemented); leave, monthly payments to employees on maternity leave up to the age of 1.5 years Contractors Reporting of the child, compensation for termination Management; of employment (if it is found impossible to transfer to another job due to loss of the Root cause analysis; general capacity for work), disablement benefit, one-time payment owing to New HSE organizational employee’s death for funeral costs, and model; a one-time payment to a victim’s family resulting from an occupational accident. HSE Management The company provides social guarantees System; for voluntary health insurance, Annual HSE leadership arrangement of vacation of the employees’ children in holiday camps across forums and trainings for Kazakhstan. middle and executive Additionally, employees are provided with management with focus social benefits such as milestone birthday on root causes analysis payments, marriage benefits, marriage and risk identification; leave, paternity leave, bereavement leave, medical treatment leave, to disabled Wellness program; employees, employees’ disabled children and many more. Behavioral Safety Audits; In addition to individual pension Safety Culture Survey; accumulations of each employee, the KMG Group of companies implemented a Supervisors Safety retirement program, which allows retired Handbook; employees to receive material aid from the organization where they have been Train the Trainer HSE working for more than 3 years. According program for Fieldworkers; to KMG internal rules on interaction with unemployed retirees, our retired Generate a Total employees are provided with material aid for holidays, milestone birthdays, medical Recordable Injury Rate treatment, sanatorium-resort therapy, (TRIR), including Medical subscription to newspapers and magazine Treatment Cases (MTC). etc. We have established a Reserve/Fund that enables us to fund additional benefits. Our people Employee Development We continue to invest in the educational Dual education In 2015, a pilot project was launched in EMG Trainings of KMG employees system and the professional development of for 39 students of the Atyrau Oil and Gas KMG launched pilot projects for dual training: our employees. Our goal is to support the Institute. Pavlodar Refinery, ICA and EMG, 60% of training necessary level of staff taking into account 2014 79 975 in the company, 40% in a college. Every year around 3500 students undertake the requirements and perspectives of KMG internship or pre-graduation practical training 2015 86 087 strategic development. At the Pavlodar Refinery in 2015 79 students as in the central offices of the organizations, of Pavlodar Chemical and Mechanical College as well as in industrial branches. did practical training, where 31 college graduates were further employed. 14,4% managers in 2015, a new training 16,2% specialists model concept of KMG staff (70/20/10) was developed and 86 087 69,4% employees approved, 70% on the job in the field of service and related activities training, 20% internal training, 10% external training. This training was developed with the Kazakh British Technical University (KBTU). The following activities have been implemented: Number of workers recieved HSE trainings granted access to the information base and library of KBTU for KMG employees and Succession pool members; 2014 18 000 2015 16 000 developed and approved procedure of KMG internal trainers; organized transfer of gained knowledge by employees who have been trained; developed a questionnaire for managers and Number of training events employees to assess the effectiveness of in 2015 training; 13,5% women approved a plan of mandatory training activities for execution of external training. 86,5% men 17 936 In order to implement an individual development plan for the «Succession pool» of KMG group of companies in 2015, KBTU developed a modular training program and conducted 10 workshops for 29 succession pool members. In addition, training for Trainings and professional development Executive MBA program was organized for 6 of workers is done irrespectively of gender or working position succession pool members. 23 Personnel Motivation Employee evaluation Third party opinion Our approach to personnel motivation is based The procedure for employee evaluation has In 2015 the on the principles of ensuring appropriate been approved since 2004 and is aimed at employees of KMG Labour Union subsidiaries were compensation, transparency and respect of the determining the effectiveness of performed employees’ rights by undertaking employment work on specific criteria for measuring results, Since the provided with and collective agreements with employees. encouraging promotions and tangible and establishment of social aid in the intangible rewards in KMG. the “Oil and Gas amount equal to Unified labor remuneration system approximately KZT The procedure is governed by the “KMG Rules Industry Workers As part of the Republic of Kazakhstan of Assessment of the administrative staff” Labor Union”, our common goals 17 bln ($77 mln)* Government order, introduced by the President and is based on two types of evaluation: of with KMG are the development of in the Message to the people of Kazakhstan professional development and of performance. the social partnership, enhancement «Strategy «Kazakhstan – 2050» regarding the implementation of new legislative measures on Evaluation of performance is carried out on a of the role of labor unions as an Retirees were equal and fair remuneration, KMG developed quarterly basis, based on the goals set for the effective model for social and labor provided with social a unified labour remuneration system (ULRS) year. relations, strengthening the social support for a total applicable to employees of KMG subsidiaries in stability in communities and ensuring amount of Evaluation of professional development is 2013-2014. held annually and for non-financial incentives health and safety at a workplace. 700 million Since 2013 the ULRS implementation took Evaluation Commission may recommend tenge ($3,153 mln). enrollment in the succession pool, promotion, In 2015, together with KMG, we place in MMG, ANS, KMG EP and MMG. In rotation in the KMG group of companies, have conducted a Chairman’s Award 2016-2017 we plan a reorganization of the remuneration system with full implementation individual training or other professional for the best idea in the field of HSE. development opportunities. The Award was well accepted and of ULRS in Midstream and Downstream. highly appreciated by local labour 200 million This system enables us to base the salaries In addition, in 2015, a standard model tenge ($904,000) on for business competence of executives, unions, our management team and of our employees on factors such as their HSE training functional duties and complexity of performed management and administrative staff in the employees. tasks and ensure absence of differences by KMG Group of companies was approved. We are pleased that together we gender or regional belonging. During 2015 have been able to attract more than Within actions for improvement of quarterly 180 participants and increase the remuneration system the management of performance involvement of employees to address evaluations were KMG has approved the approach of positions HSE issues. As representatives of performed for assessment starting from administrative employees of the corporate center to the top employees of oil and gas industry, we express our willingness to participate 75-77% management level of operational subsidiaries of KMG employee per methodology of the global management HR in any socially significant initiatives consulting firm. Currently, we are implementing and looking forward for productive a system of remuneration of administrative and long-term cooperation with personnel that is based on productivity and KMG. motivation. Kaliyev Sultan, Head of O&G Industry Labour Union * Average currency rate for 2015 was UHD: 221,73 tenge per 1$ Our people Human rights Grievance mechanisms Third party opinion We comply with the legislation of the Republic Our Human Resources and Labor Remuneration Collective agreements of Kazakhstan and with internal policies and Block conducts regular work on prevention of were effective in 37 procedures in place in each KMG subsidiary. labor disputes and conflicts in subsidiaries and operating companies affiliated companies. Constant monitoring and of the KMG group of We faithfully state that: adoption of measures to prevent social tension Our team of Nazarbayev University companies, covered KMG ensures absence of any kind of allowed preserving stability in 2015. graduate students is the first group approximately discrimination; all workers are treated in an equal manner, independently of their race, In 2015, the number of appeals on labour of students whose thesis project is conducted jointly with KMG Group. 54,197 religion, gender, ethnicity, disability and practices decreased from 52 in 2014 to 29. employees It has been a long process before sexual orientation; In accordance with the Model Rules of KMG we have chosen the topic for our KMG does not use child labor; Unified Internal Communications System, project and we would like to thank introduction of internal communications the management of KMG for their KMG does not practice or tolerate forced The Model Rules of tools is under implementation. In order to collaboration and an opportunity to labor; KMG Unified Internal maintain engagement with workers we have contribute to the development of the KMG acknowledges the right of each regular meeting of top and line management company. Communications employee to join collective agreements and with employees throughout the year, where System have been Following the discussions on current be a part of a labor union; we report on our activities. Pursuant to the requirements specified by the Rules, summary issues in KMG, we decided to introduced in 26 KMG respects the rights and needs of implement the project on “Ideas KMG subsidiaries indigenous communities in the regions of meetings of KMG subsidiaries first executives Management at KMG”. The main aim our operations. We are always open for a with the personnel are held twice a year, of the project is to provide employees dialog and to discuss and solve any concerns meetings between line managers and the with mechanisms for informing through our community meetings and other personnel are held every quarter, as well as the managers about their ideas and grievance mechanisms we have in place. meetings between senior executives and unions solutions. or with the personnel’s representatives. To enhance social wellbeing of every employee, In order for our project to become strengthen the employer’s and employees’ Additionally, other tools are used to ensure information exchange, such as corporate sites, useful and applicable at KMG, we responsibility for the productive and economic activity and to achieve the optimal balance of all hot lines, information stands, staff suggestion are planning to use an integrated parties’ interests under the social partnership, boards and other aspects. approach. Firstly, we will assess the collective agreements are concluded in all KMG current situation in KMG through We conduct audio conferences, on a regular questionnaires and interviews. Number of appeals Group entities. on labour practices basis, with our subsidiaries on social issues to Secondly, we will explore the best KMG developed a standard form of a monitor the current situation at the local level international practices in the field of collective agreement, which specifies the and, if necessary, take appropriate measures. innovative management. Finally, once conditions and uniform mechanisms of labor An automated system of social stability we develop step-by-step system for remuneration, labor hours and off-work time, monitoring is being introduced in MMG and ideas management and carry out the 2014 52 health and safety, employment of discharged ANS subsidiaries. This toolbox allows data pilot projects in several subsidiaries. 2015 29 employees, social support etc., recommended acquisition from subsidiaries, to a centralized by the Republic of Kazakhstan legislation and database and transfer of information on the We are thankful for the project employer. social climate, allowing the ability to take opportunity and for technical and preventative measures well in advance of social methodological support provided. tension. Nazarbayev University students 25 Case studies Chairman’s Award in the field of HSE Youth Committee In order to strengthen the across the KMG Group – ability In KMG we believe that young professional development leadership role of management, to scale implementation; use professionals are the future of the innovations increase the safety culture, motivate of the most innovative ideas company and the nation. Therefore, social development workers to participate in risk and experiences in HSE and we have created instruments for the management, KMG initiated an value addition through reduced development of young talent in all charity annual contest for KMG Chairman’s operating cost and reduced regions of our operations. sport award on «The best innovative risk. The winners were awarded by the KMG Chairman and In 2014 we established the KMG As part of this work, approximately 70 ideas and practices in the field of many ideas are now being Youth Committee that has served as a different thematic meetings, master-classes, occupational health, safety and implemented. strong platform for sharing ideas and trainings and discussions were held. The environmental protection. experiences and a bridge between 2015 annual Youth Committee forum was 32 KMG subsidiaries participated This contest not only generates young professionals and management held in Zerenda, Borovoe on “Occupational in the contest with a total of 181 innovative ideas and practices for the past 2 years. Currently, Safety”. Where our youth was introduced to a applications received. in HSE for their further Youth councils are established in 28 number of new HSE initiatives and programs implementation, but is also subsidiaries. To help our youth realize and had an open dialog with our CEO. We The winners were chosen based on a powerful tool for the «HSE their potential we defined 5 key areas see our youth as a powerful channel to the following criteria: transferability Awareness Campaign». for their activities: increase HSE awareness. Our Environmental Impact Policies and Management Our target is to manage compliance to the current environmental environmental impacts legislation, implementation of the principles of effectively with no harm to the environmental management and the process communities and minimal impact approach. Since 2011, we have supported the on nature throughout the entire quality and HSE management systems based cycle of our operations from on international standards, such as ISO 9001, exploration and drilling through ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001. oil production to refining and HSE is now the number one priority on marketing the agenda of the Board of Directors and Management Board meetings. This demonstrates commitment of our We comply with all environmental standards management team and increases HSE and continuously improve our environmental visibility. management systems. KMG carries out its activities in accordance with the requirements On an annual basis, we review our of the Republic of Kazakhstan legislation, environmental performance across our corporate HSE policies, Comprehensive major operating companies, identify areas Environmental Program. for improvements and set targets for the Our commitment, objectives and priorities in the following years. Moreover, to avoid and field of environmental protection are reflected mitigate the environmental effects of in the company-wide HSE policy. According our business, we continuously look for to this policy, the basic principles of the HSE opportunities to introduce new practices and management are minimization of negative technologies. effects on the environment, identification In 2015, we completed a benchmarking and management of environmental risks, analysis that allowed us to compare our HSE energy efficiency and improvement of HSE performance with our local and international transparency and visibility. These principles peers. Our key environmental focus areas apply to all KMG employees and contractors. are: greenhouse gases emissions, gas flaring, KMG applies an integrated environmental legacy waste utilization, land remediation and management system that is focused on energy efficiency. Our Environmental Impact 27 Energy use and energy efficiency Total energy consumption from the year 2012-2015 Upstream Energy consumption intensity In recent years, the world has been Energy consumption has been reduced experiencing a growth in energy demand. At 2014 2015 by 10,2% KMG, we constantly look for opportunities to reduce energy use and become more energy 123,32 124,62 efficient. Improvements in energy use will allow 3,08 2,90 us to move towards a more sustainable, less energy-intensive business and a lower carbon 111,28 111,89 In 2015 we consumed 1,86 GJ of energy to produce 1 ton of oil. The mln. GJ footprint. increase is due to watering at KMG 1,84 1,87 1,81 oilfields. 2012 2013 2014 2015 1,47 1,38 1,48 1,35 More than 80% of our subsidiaries 1,34 and affiliated companies have implemented energy management systems in accordance with Energy consumption by companies international standard ISO 50001. 9% Shymkent GJ / t 1831 employees have Refinery been trained on Energy management 10% ММG ОМG EМG ММG КОА КТМ 7% ОМG 0,3% КМТF 5% EМG 0,4% КТМ 6% КТО 24% КТG systems (ISO 50001). 2% КОА 18% Atyrau Refinery Energy management departments with 19% Pavlodar assigned specialists have been assigned for data Refinery collection and implementation of actions related to improvement of energy efficiency across the company. More than 80% of our subsidiaries In 2015, in compliance with legislative and affiliated companies have requirements, we completed energy audits. mln. GJ implemented energy management These audits allowed us to baseline of our systems in accordance with energy consumption (i.e. electricity, heat Upstream Midstream Downstream international standard ISO 50001 energy, natural gas, oil, fuel) and benchmark our performance to IOGP. Currently, energy consumption data is provided in relation to impacts within the KMG Group, Energy consumption by the type of the source in 2015 indirect energy consumption is not reflected in In 2015, the average consumption this report. 15% APG 15% Boiler heating oil in KMG refineries was 3,55 GJ Energy consumption intensity for midstream 1% Fuel per ton of oil refined, which is due companies for 2014 and 2015 remained the to technical specification of the oil same at 0,1 GJ per ton of oil transported. 3% Diesel refining process and climatic conditions at the locations of the refineries. 8% Masut 38% Natural gas 9% Electric Energy 1% Oil 10% Heat energy Our Environmental Impact gyconsumption y consumptionfrom fromsaving Energy theyear the year2012-2015 2012-2015 measures Upstream consumptionintensity Energyconsumption UpstreamEnergy intensity DownstreamEnergy Downstream Energyconsumption consumptionintensity intensity In 2015 we introduced the following energy 2014 2014 Pavlodar Pavlodarrefinery refineryconsumed consumed efficiency and energy savings measures: more moreenergy energydueduetotoactivities activities installation of inverters and introduction of 2015 2015 associated associatedwith withthe the automated124,62 123,32 123,32 124,62factor correction units, power modernization project modernizationproject transition to LED lightening and heating 3,08 3,08 2,90 4,26 4,26 4,35 adjustments during night time, all resulting in 2,90 4,10 4,35 4,10 ,28 1,28 a saving of 207 mln tenge 111,89 111,89 ($932,200). 3,74 3,74 The implementation of a Group plan from 1,84 1,84 1,87 2016-2020 will reduce energy consumption 1,81 1,81 1,87 33 2,43 2,43 1,47 1,48 2,21 12 012 on 8,098,392 2013 2013 GJ, saving 7,2% 2014 2014 of energy 2015 2015 1,47 1,38 1,48 2,21 1,34 1,34 1,38 1,35 1,35 used. In 2016, we plan to develop a comprehensive road map on energy nsumption sumption by bycompanies companies efficiency for the Group to achieve our goal GJ / t GJ / t by 2020. We are also looking to developing 9% Shymkent GJ / t GJ / t 9% Shymkent Refinery partnerships with potential investors in the Refinery 10% ММG ОМG ОМG EМG EМG ММG ММG КОА КОА КТМ КТМ 5% EМG 7% ОМG 0,3% КМТF Atyrau Atyrau Pavlodar Pavlodar Shymkent Shymkent 6% КТО 24% КТG 18% Atyrau field of energy efficiency. 18% Atyrau 7% ОМG Refinery Refinery Refinery Refinery Refinery Refinery Refinery 5% EМG 10% ММG 0,3% КМТF 6% КТО 24% КТG Refinery 19% Pavlodar Pavlodar 19% Refinery Refinery pstream pstream Midstream Midstream Downstream Downstream sumption by nsumption bythe typeofofthe thetype thesource sourceinin2015 2015 15% 15%Boiler Boilerheating heatingoiloil 1% 1%Fuel Fuel 3% 3%Diesel Diesel 8% 8%Masut Masut gas l gas 9% 9%Electric ElectricEnergy Energy 10% 10%Heat Heatenergy energy 29 Water Management Since most of our operations are located in the Central Asian region where water is a scarce More than 32% of water is 87 Total water withdrawn, mln m3 and limited natural resource, we recognize re-used in the refineries Third parties Municipal waters our responsibility towards the society and the environment and understand the importance of of KMG Refining and Marketing 28,4 3,6 managing water use wisely. We use water at all our operational facilities and for domestic purposes at our shift camps. Thus, the total volume of water withdrawn in to maintain reservoir pressure. In 2015, total produced water accounted for 122 mln. m3 and Sea water Surface 2015 equaled to 87 mln m3 (88,1 mln m3 in water 2014). The major water sources are surface and 89% of it has been re-injected to the wells. 21 12,2 groundwater reservoirs. We also use sea water that is supplied through specialized contractors The volume of waste water by the Company following the results of 2015 amounted to Ground water 22,7 for our upstream operations. 8 million m3 (8,09 mln m3 in 2014). 92% of 27,9 mln cubic meters of water withdrawn by waste water was discharged to evaporation KTO from Kigach River were transported to ponds, the remaining amounts were transferred other water users in 2015 only. For the last to third parties for utilization. We manage 30 years, KTO have been supplying water industrial and domestic waste water by treating to residents of arid Atyrau and Mangistau it at specialized treatment facilities. A tworegions, oil producers and other industrial and staged process of mechanical and biological agricultural organizations through the main treatments allows us to achieve the quality of water line “Astrakhan-Mangyshlak”. wastewater discharges as per the requirements 59,3 Total water consumption, mln m 3 27,7 Distributed to local communites, mln m 3 of environmental legislation. Water withdrawal and water consumption have a significant impact on the Ural and Kigach Pavlodar Refinery modernization project Rivers located in the western region of the Injected Production Domestic country. These water bodies are reservoirs As part of the modernization of Pavlodar for fisheries and represent the habitat for 45,7 processes use sturgeon species, mammals and birds listed petrochemical plant in 2015 2017, we are planning to implement a series of activities 11,2 2,4 in the Red Book of Kazakhstan. To reduce such as construction of an acidic waste water impact on the biodiversity of river ecosystems, we implemented a series of environmental treatment unit, cooling water systems unit, measures, including the installation of integrated and a reconstruction of the main production fish protection facilities in the waterworks. equipment. We expect to reduce the amount of oil concentration in the waste water by 30-40%. Due to the significant increase in the number of oil fields in Mangistau and Atyrau regions We also aim to reduce the rate of consumption and the application of the secondary methods of fresh water by increasing the rate of reused of oil extraction, we re-use produced water treated water in the process. 8 Total water discharge, thousand m3 3,07 Water re-use, mln m3 Evaporation ponds 7,4 Collected by contractor 0,6 Our Environmental Impact Air quality management Representatives of state authorities and Third party opinion members of GHG emissions trading We recognize the impact of our activities on system organizations are invited. The the atmosphere and the environment and working froup oversees issues and our role in the national and global climate solutions, discusses best international practicies on GHG trading systems and ОТ АМЕРИКАНСКОГО НАРОДА KAZAKHSTAN change agenda. Therefore, we focus on the prepares recommendations for legislation development of air emissions control strategies improvements. The USAID Kazakhstan Climate Change Mitigation and on introduction of innovative technologies and projects to comply with all national and Program (KCCMP) is working to help the Republic international environmental requirements for air of Kazakhstan achieve low emissions development emissions. In 2015, we created by growing its economy while its GHG emissions a GHG management decrease for the long-term. Climate change working group that KMG, Kazakhstan’s largest national oil & gas involves representatives company, has been an active participant in USAID Kazakhstan intends to contribute to the initiatives since 2015, including trainings and international efforts of tackling global climate from different subsidiaries discussions on improving national GHG regulations, change. updating the emissions trading system and In September 2015, the UN adopted introducing production-based benchmarks for 17 global goals for sustainable development Climatic changes in the catchment area of GHG allocations. KMG has also participated in the with climate change being one of them. These the Caspian Sea basin have led to sea level Climate Leadership Forum (CLF) since its launch change and flooding of extensive coastal in September 2014, which aimed to strengthen goals coincide with the priorities and objectives areas, submerging several abandoned the technical and leadership skills of business of Kazakhstan and of our company. wells in the Mangistau and Atyrau regions. leaders on climate change policy and science, We recognize the risk of pressure loss We also support the direction provided by GHG mitigation strategies and organizational (loss of containment) and following risk of the Paris Agreement adopted in December pollution and environmental damage. management techniques. Through the CLF’s practical 2015. Kazakhstan’s submitted workshops and discussions, KMG has developed Therefore, as part of our environmental new partnerships, leading to the successful INDC states an unconditional control program, we have been monitoring implementation of methane detection pilot project in target of 15% reduction in GHG the conditions of our wells on onshore operations near the Caspian Sea regions their subsidiaries. emissions by 2030 compared exposed to flooding. According to the last We were also pleased to support KMG in developing to the base year of 1990 and results of the assessment, all previously its first Corporate Climate Action Plan for 2016flooded and waterlogged wells in Atyrau 2020, which incorporates many of our suggestions a conditional target of a 25% were drained due to dropped sea levels. for GHG management. We look forward to a reduction. Therefore, we have taken actions to continued collaboration as KMG develops an completely seal all wells at risk by 2020. We share the concern of the international In Mangistau, on the other hand, all the automated GHG emissions inventory system. community and therefore, take actions to activities on sealing have been completed We look forward to continuing our partnership and in 2013. control and regulate our GHG emissions working together to achieve a Green Economy and according to the approved methodologies. Our In addition, there are regulatory risks sustainable energy future. day-to-day work is focused on air quality control associated with the changes in the through the reduction of direct emissions into legislative framework of greenhouse Alexei Sankovski atmosphere, air pollution monitoring and control gas emissions. The greenhouse gas Chief of Party emissions trading system was introduced USAID Kazakhstan Climate Change Mitigation Program and implementation of the methane leaks in Kazakhstan in 2013. However, the detection program. system is still under improvement. 31 The current gaps in the legislative regulation Upstream and Downstream to monitor and control our CO2 Case study and frequent changes in regulations create companies are the largest emitters of emissions and take required actions financial risks for the company by imposing CO2 and account for 46% and 44% of towards GHG emissions reduction. penalties or necessity to purchase additional total emissions respectively. KazMunayTeniz allocations for greenhouse gas emissions. Greenhouse gases emissions Due to legislative limitations on GHG Due to effective GHG management intensity To minimize this risk, members of the working actions, most subsidiaries and regulations, in 2014-2015, there was no groups of the Ministry of Energy, are actively affiliated companies remained under Energy efficiency action taken in mechanism for allocating the quotas for involved in improving the normative legal allowed limits of СO2 emissions Upstream companies from 2012 installations with CO2 emission levels close base of Kazakhstan. In cooperation with the quotas. Measures such as changes – 2014, resulted in reduction of to the established threshold of 20,000 tons in operational practices of gas CO2 emissions intensity. In 2015, USAID Kazakhstan program for control of of CO2. Those entities were not included climate changes, we have broadened our transportation, pipelines maintenance however, a slight increase occurred into the GHG National Allocation Plan knowledge and enhanced our capabilities in the and reequipping of 242 vehicles with with the introduction of a gas turbine electric power plant and a new gas since the plan was formed on the basis of implementation of emissions reduction policy. natural gas conversion kits resulted compressor at KTM and MMG. historical emissions from previous years. in significant reduction in CO2 Greenhouse gases and ozone-depleting emissions. Therefore, some companies could not Over the past two years we substances receive a certificate for GHG emissions. As of December 2015, the experienced a slight increase in the Current legislation does not allow companies The current RoK legislation sets quotas for CO2 Government took a decision to intensity of the CO2 emissions in Downstream from 2013 to 2015, to operate in case of the absence of the emissions and requires us to monitor direct suspend the greenhouse gas emission directly related to the increase in certificate. emissions. Information disclosed in this section trading system from 2016 until on direct GHG emissions is based on verified January 2018 in order to develop a the depth of oil refining process and KazMunayTeniz (KMT) is an example of how results of actual inventories. Information is more robust and transparent system. modernization works. GHG emissions inventory results showed disclosed for the companies included in the The requirement for the annual Reductions of emissions in Midstream that the actual emissions of carbon dioxide National Plan for Allocation of quotas for 2015. inventory and verification statements are due to reduction in volumes of oil exceeded the permissible threshold at one of Based on the approved state methodology, we will remain valid and we will continue transported. their fields. This resulted in a complaint from calculate our actual emissions. Mangistau Environmental Department for The National Allocation Plan includes the operating without quota certificate/quota for 13 largest subsidiaries and affiliates of the GHG emissions, which resulted insuspension Group with a total volume allowance of 6.77 Greenhouse gases emissions of the company’s activities. million tons of CO2. During the year, due to 7,11 6,77 the introduction of new sources of emissions, 1,14 5,84 1,12 Following negotiations with state authorities, 5,75 several subsidiaries and affiliates of KMG 0,79 2,72 0,57 the request of KMT’s inclusion into the 2,68 obtained additional quotas from the State 2,69 2,56 National Plan of 2014-2015 was rejected due totaling 0,44mln.tons of CO2 yielding a total to absence of legal norms that regulate such quota allocation in 2015 of 7.1 mln tons of 3,27 cases. KMT had to cover all their annual GHG 2,95 CO2, the actual amount of CO2 emissions 2,62 2,36 emissions by buying quotas from the Stock CO2 mln.t. amounted to 5.75 mln tons (5,84 mln. tons Exchange. in 2014). Despite the increase in production across the company, there has been an overall QUOTA FACT QUOTA FACT KazMunayTeniz has since been included in reduction of CO2 emissions. Two upstream the National Plan for 2016-2020 only. companies exceeded their allocated quotas and 2014 2015 purchased credits in the KASE Stock Exchange to offset the excess. Upstream Downstream Midstream Our Environmental Impact Methane detection pilot project Third party opinion In 2015, 2 upstream companies launched pilot Intensity of СО2 emissions in upstream projects for the detection and measurement CO2 intensity, tonn of methane leaks at industrial facilities. These projects are funded by the Government of 160 133 128 134 Norway and carried out under the Methane Abatement Program which was launched 132 133 121 An International Initiative on reducing under a broader Norwegian plan to support 110 Kazakhstan in GHG mitigation efforts. The the volume of associated petroleum gas 2012 2013 2014 2015 flaring “Zero Routine Flaring by 2030”. investment carried out on certain production КМG IOGP average = 134 tons facilities made it possible to detect and quantify On behalf of the World Bank, we the leakage of CH4 from various emission express our deep gratitude to JSC sources. NC «KazMunayGas» for approval of Intensity of СО2 emissions in Group upstream companies Prevention of the methane leakage are not the “Zero Routine Flaring by 2030” only environmentally beneficial, but also 670 Initiative. cost-effective. 2014 2015 We would also like to thank KMG 477 for the ongoing efforts to reduce the In 2016 we plan to continue the CO2 tons internsity implementation of the methane project in other volume of APG flaring. Successful IOGP = 134 facilities for detection and measurements of 262 implementation of the plans for the 229 215 methane leaks 163 153 173 effective utilization of APG flared, and a 110 121 69 50 60 86 53 46 noticeable reduction in flaring volumes illustrates the strong commitment EМG ОМG ММG КОА КТМ КGМ KBM КМG of your company to environmental Overall KMG CO2 emissions intensity for 2015 amounted to 121 tons protection and efficient management of of CO2 per thousand ton of production resources. We appreciate the fact that, according СО2 emissions intensity in downstream to long-term development strategy of KMG, the regular APG flaring should CO2 tons intensity not be used, and the best available 181 181 technologies for energy efficient and 179 178 environmentally safe disposal of gas should apply. 2012 2013 2014 2015 We look forward to the successful implementation of the initiative by KMG in 2030. СО2 emissions intensity in midstream Rakhimzhan Asangaziyev CO2 tons intensity 16 Acting representative of 11 11 9 the World Bank in Kazakhstan 2012 2013 2014 2015 33 Pollutant emissions Besides greenhouse gases, sulfur oxides Majority of KMG subsidiaries The amount of pollutant Volumes of oil and gas (SOx) and nitrogen oxides (NOx) are other level of gas utilization is emissions of the Group flared in relation major emissions released into the atmosphere. to production over 95% (million barrels oil equivalent) They are the result of combustion processes in oil refining and exploration and production Sox emissions, 407 764 2014 activities. tons 451 784 2015 For example, EMG is currently constructing a Calculations of emissions are based on the desulphurization plant for the associated gas technical characteristics of the equipment 7 544 fields of Prorva group. Implementation of this Nox emissions, and made according to state guidelines and project will increase gas utilization in the Group tons 10 384 recommendations. Despite the actions taken 24,2 from 85.3% to over 90%. EМG to mitigate the environmental impacts, the 24,2 emissions of pollutants in 2015 compared to At KOA, the gas utilization is at 70%. A new 2014 2015 the 2014 period, increased by 46,860 tons or road map for the construction of a Gas 0 ОМG 10%, a result of increases in production and Processing Plant in «Kozhasai» has been 0 introduction of additional emissions sources developed and agreed. The construction will stated earlier. The main contributors are be carried out by JSC “KazTransGas” and its Amout of pollutant 0 upstream and downstream companies. partners. emissions by activities, ММG 0 in tons Associated gas utilization During the last 4 years gas production 13,3 increased, however, there is a downward trend 2 829 КОА According to the laws of the Republic of 20,4 in gas flaring in 2012-2014. The increase in 14 294 Kazakhstan, flaring of associated gas is volume of flared gas in 2015 occurs due to the 3 707 permitted only if state authorized and 10 926 445 045 КТМ 24,3 increase of natural gas production in upstream operations are conducted in line with project 1,7 companies with low level of gas utilization. 400 675 documentation, and norms and volumes are kept within the permissible limits. КGМ 3,7 2014 2015 4,3 We support the World Bank Initiative “Zero Upstream routine flaring by 2030” to reduce global 0 КBМ gas flaring. The initiative brings together Downstream 0 governments, oil companies, and development Midstream institutions that agreed to cooperate to stop gas КМG 9,51 flaring before 2030. The initiative is related to 11,98 the routine gas flaring only and is not extended Dynamics of produced to flaring for safety reasons. and flared gas in KMG In 2015, the overall level of gas utilization by 2107,8 1941,9 1948,0 IOGP = 14.8 the Group amounted to 85.3% (in 2014 – 1622,8 87,5%), the majority of subsidiaries rate is over 95%. There are 4 fields with the utilization level of 55 66% in EMG and KOA. We are taking 404,2 387,6 309,4 In 2015 the average for KMG 243,5 group was 11,98 tons of CO2 mln. m3 actions to address this issue and aim to achieve flared per 1,000 tons production 100% utilization level in the Group in the next few years. 2012 2013 2014 2015 Produced gas Flared gas Our Environmental Impact Waste Management Volume of waste generated Waste utilization methods, 2014 Industrial waste management is one of the highest environmental priorities of the Kazakhstan authorities 2014 5% Secondary treatment and local businesses. We allocate significant 234,6 2015 investment to handle waste generated at our 179,4 1% Reclamation thousand tons production facilities and contaminated land. Following 6% Flaring the Environmental Code requirements, for hazardous waste that cannot be treated and utilized at the 48,6 36,4 9% Disposed at polygons sites, we transfer it to regional contractors that have capabilities to provide its safe disposal at specialized Hazardous Non Hazardous 1% Disposed at operational landfills landfills. We ensure that contractors comply with our This increase is a result of production growth and 78% Transfered to contractors requirements during transportation, disposal and construction of a refining unit at the Atyrau refinery utilization. We maintain a “zero waste” discharge policy into aquatic systems during offshore operations. All generated drilling waste is transported onshore Waste utilization methods, 2015 for subsequent detoxification and transferred to 1% Reused specialized landfills. Waste generation by business units At a subsidiary level, we ensure that required 2014, 2015 14% Secondary treatment environmental monitoring and control is conducted 8% Reclamation regularly and on time. To comply with legislative 13,1% (16,6%) Service companies requirements, each subisidiary has developed a Waste 3% Flaring Management Program, approved by state authorities. 3,8% (6,7%) Midstream 10% Disposed at polygons On a corporate level, we monitor, control and audit the compliance with waste management 1% Disposed at operational landfills requirements. 46,6% (31,7%) Downstream 63% Transfered to contractors We are also exploring new technologies and practices in the field of waste utilization. In 2015 36,4% (44,9%) Upstream we created a waste management working group with representatives from different subsidiaries to share experiences and best practices. Volume of drilling waste generated Legacy waste and contaminated land generated in 236,9 the 1970s is a significant concern for our company. Waste generation intensity 2014 2015 200,3 Court decisions appointed some landfills as the state tons/Ktons of oil produced property and KMG EP is implementing a plan of 7,05 thousand tons 116,5 actions on this waste liquidation process in agreement 83,1 with local state authorities. 4,90 4,56 3,48 0,9 1,1 0,8 0,9 The majority of waste is generated during drilling activities and oil refining activities. In 2015, the waste On shore Off shore On shore Off shore projects projects projects projects in upstream and downstream accounted for 36.4% and 46.6% respectively. Drilling mud, Drilling cuttings, 2012 2013 2014 2015 Ktons Ktons 35 Case study We do not export nor import hazardous waste internationally Pilot project in OzenMunayGas: BioBox technology The pilot testing of Biobox in OMG is a Based on the results of the waste generation good example of a successful introduction analysis, we will develop and implement a of new technology for legacy waste holistic corporate waste management plan for utilization. The project was conducted 2016 – 2020 that considers implementation on a 3000 m2 site and conducted by our Danish partners, this technology of innovative and clean technologies and uses a biological agent, «Baкoil-KZ», that processes for effective treatment, utilization and consists of non-native microorganisms. reuse of our waste. This method demonstrated its high The key aspects of the Plan are: bioremediation potential for contaminated land with high concentrations of paraffin. Improvement of the waste management As a result, the concentrations of structure hydrocarbons have been reduced 9,6 Development and implementation of times over a period of 3 months. corporate documents for effective waste Moreover, the technology of water reuse management in the process allows us to minimize Improvement of the culture through our water consumption rates for waste motivation programs, workshops and management. We are also able to trainings use treated soil for road construction purposes. Legacy waste utilization plans Considering the historical nature Introduction of innovative and green of the land contamination and high technologies concentrations of hydrocarbons (average Implementation of investment projects on 5-30%) in the region, we are trying to waste management find opportunities to preliminary treat and prepare those lands for BioBox Development and introduction of the KPIs. technology. We also plan to apply that For the purposes of disposal, recycling and technology on a larger scale once we utilization of drilling waste the following analyze its cost effectiveness. methods, were used: biological remediation, In 2015, we generated drilling waste of thermal cracking, thermal desorption and waste 355,2 thousand tons. (201,3 thousand disposal at landfills. tons of drill cuttings and 84,2 thousand tons of waste drilling mud). Comparing to 2014, the amount of drilling waste generated decreased by to 69,8 Ktons or 19.6 % in 2015. This is explained by reductions in both onshore and offshore drilling operations. Our Environmental Impact Impact on biodiversity As a Group of companies with district of Aktobe region, 350 extensive operations in the oil km from the city of Aktobe. The & gas industry, we understand territory of the field is located the importance of biodiversity near the National Nature Reserve protection and preservation. «Kokzhide-Kumzhargan». For all our projects, we identify Kansu and evaluate environmental, social and health risks and The site is located on the territory look for opportunities for of Kansu Karakiya district of improvements through the Mangistau region. Environmental Impact Assessment The contract area is partially located process. Additionally, biodiversity within Kendirli Kayasanskoyand ecosystem services are taken protected area and buffer zone of into account during the industrial the Ustyurt state reserve. monitoring processes throughout the whole production cycle. We conduct exploration projects in the Kazakh sector of the Caspian Location of production units in Sea which has special environmental relation to natural reserves requirements. Most projects are operated in partnership with Urikhtau foreign companies and include: Urikhtau is located in the Khvalynskoe, Central, Pearls, Mugaljar district of Aktobe Zhambyl, N project Satpayev. region, 215 km from Aktobe. The North-western part of the field Zhambyl is located on the national nature The site «Zhambyl» is located in the reserve Kokzhide-Kumzhargan, northern part of the Kazakhstan where exploration activities are sector of the Caspian Sea within the carried out. North Caspian uplift (Isatay District Field development is a social Atyrau Region). The sea depth in project under control of the the area of operations ranges from Republic of Kazakhstan, designed 2.5 to 7 meters. This sector of to provide natural gas to the the Caspian Sea is a Government southern regions of the Republic protected zone. The north-western of Kazakhstan, and is a major part of the Sea, where most element in the construction activities are carried out, is a highly of the main gas pipeline environmental sensitive area of «Beineu-Bozoi-Shymkent». the state conservation area and is subject to a number of restrictions KazakhOil Aktobe LLP in terms of offshore oil operations. Alibekmola and Kozhasai are Part of the land area is located in located in the Mugalzharsky Novinsky reserve. 37 Location and size of kmg’s operations in relation to areas of high biodiversity value Position relative to key Size of operational site Operation Location Key biodiversity area (kba) Ecological sensitivity Mitigation plan biodiversity areas (km2) Karakiya district of Kendirli Kayasanskoy-protected area and Kansu Partially 4374,6 Habitat for IUCN listed species Frequent biological monitoring assessments; Mangistau region buffer zone of Ustyurt state reserve. Mugaljar district of Aktobe geological and hydrogeological area of the Urikhtau Sands Kokzhide Groundwater Kokzhide Partially 239,9 Hydrogeological monitoring region state natural reserve fund Alibekmola Mugaljar district of Aktobe geological and hydrogeological area of the Sands Kokzhide Groundwater Kokzhide Relatively close 156,5 Hydrogeological monitoring and Kozhasai region state natural reserve fund Isatay District Atyrau especially environmentally sensitive area Frequent biological monitoring assessments Zhambyl Region Novinsky reserve Partially 1 935,2 Habitat for sturgeon Caspian seals restrictions in terms of offshore oil operations Protected areas Kenderli Kayasanskaya-state reserve zone Kazakhstan and is valued for the quality of representatives of the animal world: muskrat, drinking water from groundwater reservoirs. beaver, Brandt’s Hedgehog, 27 species of birds Kenderli Kayasanskaya-state reserve zone is Ustyurt Nature Reserve: (pink and the Dalmatian pelican, flamingo, located in the vicinity to the Ustyurt Nature North Caspian reserve zone whooper swan, small white heron, yellow heron, Ustyurt State Nature Reserve is included in Reserve and is permitted for geological studies spoonbill and ferruginous duck). Currently, the the list of subsoil areas of special ecological, and exploration of mineral resources when Northern Caspian is unique in terms of territory of the reserve is almost completely scientific and cultural value assigned to special environmental requirements established biological and commercial value of fish fauna, under water due to rising sea levels. the category of specially protected natural by the Environmental Code of the Republic of especially species of sturgeon. North and areas of national significance. Moreover, Kazakhstan are respected. Middle Caspian is one of the most valuable Impact on biodiversity is a result of exploration «Spring Kendirli» is included in the list of areas and nodal points through which millions activities from: noise, vibration, transport and hydrogeological objects of the state nature State natural reserve zone of waterfowl migrate annually and seals are transformation causing removal of relief areas of reserve fund of national and international “Kokzhide-Kumzhargan” breeding. In the late 1970s the North Caspian potential habitat of animals. importance. Ustyurt Reserve includes unique reservation zone was established for the The reserve «Kokzhide-Kumzhargan» include 2 In order to minimize impact on biodiversity geological, paleontological and archaeological conservation and reproduction of fish stock. regions of Republican significance: environmental monitoring is carried out and sites and is a key habitat for a number of Novinsky state reserve area (45 thousands necessary programs are undertaken and species listed in the National Red Book (gazelle, Sands Kokzhide geological area of national hectar) was founded in 1967 on the eponymous approved by authorized bodies in the field of urial, caracal, saker falcon, golden eagle, eagle significance, which has a special ecological and island, and water areas for the protection of environmental protection. owl, jack and so on). In addition, this area is scientific value. Sands is a unique reservoir of wetlands located in the eastern part of the planned to obtain the status of World Natural groundwater. Volga delta on the border between Kazakhstan Heritage (OVPN) UNESCO. In accordance with Groundwater Kokzhide field hydrogeological and Russia. There are protected rare species the environmental legislation of the Republic of area that also has special ecological and of plants such as water chestnut, sacred lotus, Kazakhstan, any industrial activity is prohibited scientific value, is the largest in the Western Sandman Astrakhan, white water lily, as well as in the region. Our Environmental Impact Conservation of biodiversity environmental damage once the audit is All drilling rigs are also supplied Third party opinion completed. with vessels for Tier 1, Tier 2 oil spill In 2015, in Laktybay and South responses and have contracts with OSRL Karatyube fields, a project of land During offshore operations in the reclamation was implemented (land for Tier 3 oil spills. Oil Spill Preparedness Regional Initiative (OSPRI) northern part of Caspian Sea, we follow affected by construction of power lines) several principles: In case of imminent harm to aquatic is an IPIECA-administered group that encourages and successful recovery was confirmed species, we will stock the ecosystems and supports industry and governments working by the state authorities. Principle of “zero waste and with juvenile sturgeon as a compensatory cooperatively, promoting the adoption of proven, discharge” when all waste and water In 2015, we completed restoration measure. credible, integrated and sustainable national, are transported to the land; works on 17 abandoned wells in Kansu regional and international oil spill response field (legacy wells from 1970s) and All vessels are equipped with fish capability. Major investors in the Caspian and Black surrounded lands. protection devices and there is no bilge water release; Sea regions such as BP, Chevron, Eni, ExxonMobil, Overall, 4,300 of In 2016, we plan to complete Inpex, Shell and Total work jointly through OSPRI. environmental audits to identify and All operations are prohibited during assess current and potential risks in spawning periods (April 1st – July hectares were cultivated Whilst not a member of OSPRI, KMG Systems in 2015 and 164,000 Kansu. Considering the vulnerability 15th) & Services and KMG Research &Development and uniqueness of Kendirli-Kayasan Institute of Drilling and Production has contributed Fishing is not allowed; protection zone and Ustyurt state hectares in 2014 to the development of Kazakhstan’s national oil reserve, we will develop comprehensive No hydrocarbons flaring during the action plans to avoid and mitigate any night; spill preparedness framework, including studies into the effectiveness of oil spill response methods. These companies have worked closely with OSPRI, helping to align the national framework to international good practice. This has promoted tiered preparedness and response, a risk-based approach, choosing response options that minimise environmental impacts, and ensuring the availability of the range of oil spill response instruments. Through workshops and conferences KMG has been acquainted with current practices, including those captured within the recent and comprehensive publications produced under the IOGP-IPIECA Oil Spill Response Joint Industry Project. OSPRI believes that KMG has a potential to be among the leading companies in the field of accepting proven reliable industry good practices and encourage them to join to OSPRI in the near future. Oil Spill Preparedness Regional Initiative (Caspian Sea – Black Sea – Central Eurasia) 39 Oil spill preparedness and prevention Total volume of oil spills readiness for disaster rescue operations, Satpayev ensured by North Caspian Oil Spill response Constant readiness for oil spill Operating signed a Participation Agreement with base (NCOS). response (OSR) is an absolute Caspian Sea Support, KMG Systems & Services 2014 31 The major purposes of NCOS base are to: and Atyrau department Ak Beren, a Center of priority for KMG Paramilitary Professional Emergency services. Respond to any oil spill in the Northern 2015 23,74 Tier 1 & 2 oil spills response trainings part of the Caspian Sea, in particular, during tons Operation sites have plans in place for oil spill operations in the Kashagan block; demonstrated that Satpayev Operating has response. To strengthen our preparedness the adequate materials, resource base, well qualified Treat and rehabilitate aquatic and land company regularly conducts theoretical and staff and experience for provision of timely species affected by oil spills ; practical lessons, drills and exercises at different response and liquidation of this classification of levels to improve the skills of personnel. Train personnel on equipment usage and spills. application in case of oil spills; Our oil spill response capability and Onshore operations Provide services on environmental and environmental protection during operations Number of trainings Total number of oil spills at Upstream facilities meteorological monitoring. on fire and process safety in Kazakhstani region of the Caspian Sea is amounted to 3 significant cases in 2015 (same as in 2014) with total volume of 23,74 tons. We ensure the environmental restoration Republican command-post exercise of contaminated areas, and there were no significant fines or penalties from state 2014 23 authorities registered during the year. According to the organizational guidelines of 2015 21 the Ministry of Energy on formation of civil protection, KMG participated in the republican command-staff exercises and other activities Command-post exercise carried out by the executive bodies in terms of prevention of emergency situations. 2014 43 2015 45 KMG subsidiaries conducted fire drills, various training Fire safety trainings sessions and exercises aimed at eliminating possible process 2014 145 safety events 2015 135 Offshore operations The majority of offshore oil spill response Emergency response trainings exercises were implemented during exploratory drilling operations of a well at Satpayev block. 2014 817 In order to ensure Tier 1, 2 and 3 oil spill 2015 798 preparedness and response to blowouts and Our Environmental Impact Payments for environmental impact & protection In 2015, total expenses for environmental protection amounted to 9,016 mln tenge ($40,1 mln) Costs associated with waste management, emissions and water management, prevention and liquidation measures were 7,661 mln tenge ($34,6 mln) and expenses for environmental management were 1,355 mln tenge ($6,1 mln). The fees paid for environmental violations amount to 2,5 bn tenge ($11 mln) in 2015. These penalties include charges for excess emissions, excessive emissions of polluting substances and unauthorized waste. In 2014, 2,9 bn tenge ($13 mln) was paid for environmental fines. In the field of waste management, the fines decreased from 354,3 mln tenge ($1,6 mln) in 2014 to 96,4 tenge ($434K) in 2015, a result of the implementation of waste management action plans in each subsidary. Also, fines for excessive emissions of pollutants have decreased by 50% from 45,4 mln tenge ($204K) to 22,9 mln tenge ($103K). 41 2014 2015 Payments mln KZT mln USD mln KZT mln USD Waste and emissions management 10 996,7 49,6 7 661,7 34,6 Waste utilization and disposal 4 793,3 21,6 1 858,1 8,4 Water discharges and GHG treatment 2 304,9 10,4 2 515,1 11,3 Expenses for licenses and permits 150,8 0,7 79,9 0,4 Maintenance of the equipment, materials and services necessary for operations, 2 430,7 11,0 2 942,9 13,3 personnel costs associated with the relevant activities Environmental insurance 238,0 1,1 238,0 1,0 Costs associated with prevention and 1 079,1 4,9 27,8 0,1 liquidation of environmental damage Investments on environmental protection 1 303,4 5,9 1 354,6 6,1 prevention measures Trainings 21,7 0,1 9,7 0,04 Environmental Management Systems 15,1 0,1 11,2 0,1 Consultant services Certification 24,9 0,1 38,8 0,2 Personnel 5,3 0,02 4,3 0,02 Research and innovations 351,5 1,6 376,1 1,7 “Green” technologies introduction and 4,2 0,02 6,5 0,03 implementation Other expenses related to “green” 7,6 0,03 5,1 0,02 technologies Other expenses 873,0 3,9 903,0 4,1 We recognize the importance of regional and Sponsorship and Charity community development, therefore we fully engage with stakeholders while simultaneously Sponsorship and Charity at KMG is provided running assessment programs to measure by the Company for the maintenance the impact of our operations and on the and development of social, cultural and environment and health of local communities. humanitarian spheres of society. Charitable contributions by KMG are based on Community Engagement the principles of legality with the Constitution of the RoK, equality, voluntary participation and In order to assist the regional development transparency. we actively collaborate with local authorities Our Policy on Charity and Sponsorship sets our through Memorandums and provide access to main priorities: necessary goods & services in underdeveloped areas. social support for disadvantaged groups; In all regions of our activities Health, Safety development of educational and health and Environment Commissions collaborate systems; with local labor unions to ensure the labor protection requirements, prevention of assistance to victims of natural disasters; industrial accidents and occupational diseases to develop cultural communities, support and inspecting the safety of work places. human development and regionally Prior to launching new projects and facilities significant events; we implement a complex plan of actions strengthen labor relations, international in the framework of environmental impact relations, investment in SD of society; assessment (EIA), which is aimed at informing the society on planned activities in order support of regional & business initiatives; to get their feedback. We ensure access of promotion of the country in the world all stakeholders to EIAs, suggestions and arena of professional sports as well as comments. The EIA and other related materials maintaining and strengthening the Fund’s are posted on local authorities’ websites and in and Company’s reputation. mass-media. For example, we engaged with more than The main areas for the charitable support 1600 citizens in Almaty living near the gas were: organizations of veterans, people with pipeline “Kazakhstan-China”, where more than restricted abilities, orphanages, children centers 70 public community meetings were held to and other non-profit social organizations. We explain our approach, legislation norms and provided social support to veterans of the oil how we comply with them and answer their and gas sector, along with financial assistance for sponsoring the events related to the 70th questions. anniversary of WWII Victory. Parts of the funds Our communities There are official mechanisms of submitting were dedicated to the treatment of children, complaints such as written and electronic and to help children with disabilities and from messages addressed to the Organization’s low-income families. We also organize holidays Clerical Office, hot lines for automated receipt for children of our employees on an annual of phone and text messages. basis. 43 Moreover, according to collective agreement, in 2015 resources were allocated to improve the social conditions of the former workers of the Pavlodar Refinery. KMG supported In Kyzylorda region, under the provisions of a Our female employees are a number of social development projects, such as the Memorandum of understanding signed at local level, members of the Association connection to gas pipelines in settlements of Almaty region of Business Women of KazGerMunay JV LLP sells natural gas at a reduced and the program of Astana development. Kazakhstan price to the inhabitants of the region. In 2015, the focus of our sponsorship was the support of sports in Kazakhstan, such as: the Confederation of КОА concluded a Memorandum of Understanding combat sports and power sports, tennis federation and with the mayor of Aktubinsk region, with provisions on KMG subscribes to CF «Presidential professional sports club» Astana, and the Professional boxing club «Astana Arlans». We believe that production processes and labor rights for employees. principal provisions of the developing sports of Kazakhstan will promote healthier and precautionary principle more rewarding lifestyles. Also given the international and MMG financed a social project of community (Principle 15 of the Rio national importance of Eurasian Forums organized by our key significance called “Contribution to Mangistau Declaration on stakeholder “KazEnergy”, we co-sponsored the 10th Eurasian development: achieving better results through Environment and Forum. We actively and constantly sponsor cultural events, accountability and direct foreign investments” Development such as commemorating the 550th anniversary of the Kazakh of the UN, 1992) Khanate in 2015. In 2015, 29 public hearings were held. We are always open to dialogue In 2015 KMG rendered charitable and sponsorship support in all priority areas in the amount of 6.8 bln tenge ($23mln) Market Presence In accordance with the state program for industrial and innovative development of In November 2015, our gas Kazakhstan, three refineries are undergoing stations were recognized as best modernization and reconstruction. in the “Choice of the Year in Modernization of refineries will reduce negative impacts on the environment and improve the Kazakhstan” quality of petroleum products to the technical requirements of the Customs Union to the environmental class of K4, K5 and to increase the capacity of the secondary processes and oil Product marketing and labeling refining enrichment. The fuel we produced meets the requirements As a national operator of petroleum and of technical regulations of the Customs Union oil products, we offer shipment of socially 013/2011 “About requirements to automobile important petroleum products at a reduced and aviation gasoline, diesel and marine fuel, cost. Every year KMG RM provides diesel fuel jet fuel and heating oil”; and the requirements to farmers during the sowing and harvesting of GOST, national standards and technical season at a reduced price. In 2015, 120,000 specifications. tons of diesel fuel and 24,000 tons of fuel oil were shipped. During the winter season, we Before the release of fuel into circulation/ supply oil for social and industrial facilities of consumption, an appropriate fuel Kazakhstan. acknowledgment is carried out and a declaration of conformity is issued. Each batch KMG RM distributes a wide range of petroleum of fuel put into circulation is accompanied by a products, both for export and for the domestic quality document (passport). Information about market through their channel of gas stations the name, brand fuel dispensers of gasoline under the brand «KazMunayGas», located in all and diesel fuel is available at petrol stations regions of Kazakhstan. and reflected in the cash receipts. In addition, A program of retail network expansion is being at each gas station there is a “Customer point”, carried out both through the construction where all information is available for review – of new gas stations, and purchasing and quality passports and company declaration for retrofitting existing facilities. During the each type of fuel sold. construction of gas stations, KMG complies To ensure the quality of the fuel, we with all safety requirements, applies the continuously monitor the entire supply best international practices, sets modular chain of petroleum products from refinery construction, uses the latest fuel dispensers and oil depots to gas stations. The process of oil advanced software. products quality control is governed by the Throughout the reporting year, there were no “Regulations on the Control and securing the records of incidents of noncompliance with quality of petroleum products”, documents of Market Presence regulations and voluntary codes concerning the accredited laboratories management systems impact of products and services, health and and is conducted by a special quality control safety, or service information and labeling of department. Laboratories carrying out quality product properties. control in KMG facilities are accredited by the 45 state accreditation system of the RoK and are analysis laboratories allowing monitoring of of Kazakhstan based on the data of foreign and voluntary codes concerning marketing included in the registers of Testing Laboratories fuel quality at all sites in Kazakhstan. markets and on the basis of the information communications, including advertising. KMG of the Customs Union and international and analytical agencies such as International does not sell banned or disputed products. Dispatcher Center of KMG-Onymdery laboratories, which are part of International Analytical Center of Oil and Gas, Thomson Moreover no substantiated complaints regarding conducts its own marketing analysis of the Laboratory Accreditation Cooperation (ILAC). Reuters and Argus. In 2015, there were no breaches of customer privacy and losses of current situation in the domestic market In addition, control is carried out by express cases of noncompliance with regulations customer data were registered in 2015. Market Presence Working with clients Согласно Правилам закупок Фонда СК, отечественные/местные поставщики One of the most crucial aspects of our work is In order to identify the level of customer работ, услуг – физические и (или) constant improvements of the quality of our satisfaction we use the following tools: юридические лица, являющиеся oil by-products and other offered services for резидентами Республики Казахстан, Touchscreens at gas stations – for the whole clients’ satisfaction, We have a 24-hour callиспользующие не менее 95% местных period of service provision; center responsible for responding to customer трудовых ресурсов Республики complaints and recommendations, and transfer CRM-sensor sales center– for the whole Казахстан по выполнению работ и of information to the Customer Service Center period of service provision; оказанию услуг. for further consideration and necessary action. «отечественные товаропроизводители Paper based surveys – twice a year; Additionally, rules for assessing customer – потенциальные поставщики, satisfaction level were developed for the Official customers complaints or comments производящие на территории purpose of standardizing the process – processed as soon as received; Республики Казахстан товары, of gathering, monitoring and analysis of Call-center & official Company’s website – полностью произведенные в Республике information, which is related to perception processed as soon as received; Казахстан, товары, подвергнутые of customer’s satisfaction. Consolidation and достаточной переработке в Республике distribution of this information is done to Complaints and comments book processed Казахстан в соответствии с критериями as soon as received. достаточной переработки. create and sustain a long-term relationship In the case of customer complaints about the with the customer; quality of petroleum products we conduct an forecast customers’ demands and needs; analysis of oil samples, where consumers are always encouraged to participate in sampling of identify areas for future improvement in petroleum products. Independent assessments customer service; by third-party testing laboratories are also conducted when required and test reports of correct plans, goals, processes and concrete accredited laboratory are communicated to the actions which are customer service quality consumer. increase oriented. 47 Procurement practices KMG’s activity in purchasing goods, works and 1677 long-term services is carried out within the Regulations In 2015, the total volume of agreements with the domestic of the Samruk-Kazyna Fund. Tendering is KMG Group procurement performed by electronic means for publicity suppliers of goods, works and and transparency of the procurement process, amounted to 1,67 bln tenge services amounted to purchasing of qualified goods, works and with the local content share at 1,17 bln tenge remain services, fair competition among the potential 77%: products at 81%, works in force suppliers. Suppliers who fail to comply with and services at 74% security and other regulations are identified through a “Blacklist” of potential or current suppliers of the Holding and (or) the Blacklist of bidders for government contracts. One examples was the creation of a joint KMG management visited venture between KMG and “Nabors Drilling KMG is committed to actively supporting the International Ltd” – an American world leader to the 13 regions of the country, during which 158 Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan to in oil and gas drilling, a partnership aimed increase the share of local content in goods, to: increase local content, implement best works and services, and also to develop local practices, technologies and management memorandums with the local qualified technical and managerial personnel. system of “Nabors”, transfer know-how and to authorities and city halls and We plan to achieve these indicators by: work effectively in the long term on the major domestic Kazakh suppliers and oil and gas projects in Kazakhstan as a drilling contractor. producers for the total amount Increasing the share of local content in procurement of goods, works and services; The new JV “KMG Nabors Drilling Company” of 365 bln tenge were Establishing long-term contractual LLP has been operating at Tengiz oilfield since signed relationships with Kazakhstan suppliers of October 2015. goods, works and services; Formation and active usage of information exchange mechanism with the local suppliers In 2015, 1,155 of goods, works and services for longagreements in the amount of term needs of the oil and gas industry and requirements for the specifications of goods, Local content share 392 bln tenge were works and services to be purchased; in the total procurement signed Cooperation with international partners volume of KMG (%) to transfer technologies and create equipment and component manufacturing in 81 73 78 74 Kazakhstan. 67 66 Despite the significant decline in the world oil prices, which caused budget reductions and investment programs reductions, KMG acknowledges its duties to support domestic commodity producers and to participate in the 2013 2014 2015 industrialization of the country. goods works/services Экономическая: наш вклад Производственные показатели* Key production indicators* Indicator metrics 2014 2015 Oil production K tons 22 490 22 670 Gas production (natural) mln.м3 4 814 4 844 Hydrocarbons refining K tons 17 116 16 317 Oil transportation by trunk oil pipelines K tons 64 005 61 001 Oil cargo turnover mln.tons km 44 206 45 447 Marine oil transportation K tons 9 606 7 033 Gas transportation by main gas pipelines mln.м 3 105 445 102 750 Commodity transport operations for gas transportation bln.m3 km 45 381 40 339 *Includes data on KMG subsidiaries and JVs Key financial indicators (mln tenge) 2015 / 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 2014, % Income, total 2 215 626 3 541 713 3 405 049 3 101 218 2 787 707 2 252 197 37 including: Income from sales of goods and rendering 1 094 699 3 186 764 3 252 719 2 960 418 2 625 256 2 098 942 66 services Costs, total including: 2 272 402 3 650 072 3 206 860 2 982 379 2 689 116 2 065 663 38 Cost price of sold 2 322 162 products and rendered 1 093 791 2 354 109 2 090 818 1 836 061 1 409 001 53 services Corporate income tax 98 232 149 117 101 193 396 177 131 153 147 132 675 expenses (inc. EPT) Income / (loss) from 607 802 (-) 3 102 331 628 9 -20981 discontinued operations* Net income after 398 326 207 363 440 955 369 420 422 422 305 309 92 minority interest Our Economic Input *A significant deviation of the data for 2015 is due to the fact that in 2015, revenues and expenses KMG-International were reclassified in income / (loss) from discontinued operations 49 Expenditures on mitigation of ecological impact and environmental management Corporate income tax (CIT) 1 303 391 139 951 798 ($ 5,9 mln) ($ 631,2 mln) Expenditures for liquidation of ecological impact Excess profits tax (EPT) 10 996 720 5 437 408 ($ 49,6 mln) ($ 24,5 mln) Waste 514 351 Value-added tax (VAT) ($ 2,3 mln) 176 401 605 ($ 795,6 mln) Air emissions (inc.gas flaring) 1 086 391 ($ 4,9 mln) Rent tax 53 333 489 ($ 240,5 mln) Water pollution 38 973 Impact ($ 147,000) Mineral extraction tax (MET) 53 101 890 Flaring ($ 239,5 mln) 3 340 784 ($ 15,1 mln) chart* Education *thousands tenge 3 056 189 Other payments ($ 13,8 mln) 512 048 762 ($ 2,3 bln) Community livelihoods (charity) 362 200 Export customs duty (ECD) ($ 1,6 mln) 79 141 697 ($ 356,9 mln) Health 6 447 822 ($ 29,1 mln) Empowerment (sponsorship) 6 425 100 ($ 28,9 mln) Community Following the auditing process of our companies, cohesion a number of minor violations were found, but (investments without entailing administrative liability. In in community/ 2015, the total cost for the Group of companies social projects) for non-compliance with legal and regulatory 1 653 518 Investment requirements totaled 13,501,577 tenge ($ 7,5 mln) 685 921 000 Payroll ($ 3,1 bln) ($60,800), versus 229 159 tenge ($1,032) from 326 453 516 2014. ($ 1,0 bln) During the reporting period there were no cases Profits of non-financial sanctions or any cases requiring 398 325 954 dispute resolutions. ($ 1,8 bln) Appendices Abbreviations ANS “Aktaunefteservice” LLC IAOT International Association of Oil KMT JSC “MNC “KazMunayTeniz” OSC “Oil Construction Company” LLC Transporters BoD Board of Director KMTF «National Maritime Shipping Company OSPRI Oil Spill Preparedness Regional ICA JSC “IntergasCentralAsia” «Kazmortransflot»LLP Initiative EBD ISM Electronic base of documents of integrated systems management ILAC International Laboratory Accreditation KOA “Kazakhoil Aktobe” LLP OSR Oil spills response Cooperation EIA Environmental Impact Assessment KPI Key performance indicator INDC Intended nationally determined OSRL Oil Spill Response Limited EMG “EmbaMunayGas” JSC contributions KTG JSC “KazTransGas” RoK Republic of Kazakhstan FAR Fatality Accident Rate IOGP International Association of Oil and KTM LTD “JV “KazGerMunay” Gas Producers SD Sustainable Development GOST Set of technical standards maintained KTO “KazTransOil” by the Euro-Asian Council for KazGPZ “Kazakh gas refining plant” LPP Samruk-Kazyna Fund “Sovereign Samruk Kazyna Standardization, Metrology and LTI Lost-time Injury Wealth Fund” JSC KBM JSC “Karazhambasmunay” Certification (EASC), a regional standards organization operating LTIR Lost-time Injury Rate TRIR Total Recordable Incidents Rate KGM LTD “KazakhTurkMunay” under the auspices of the MMG “Mangistaumunaygas” JSC ULRS Unified Labor Remuneration System Commonwealth of Independent States KMG “KazMynayGas NC” JSC (CIS) MTC Medical Treatment Case UN United Nations KMG RM “KazMunayGas refining-marketing” JSC GRI Global Reporting Initiative MVCR Motor Vehicle Crash Rate UNFCCC United Nations Framework KMG E&P “KazMunayGas Exploration and HSE Health, Safety and Environment Convention on Climate Change Production” JSC OMG “OzenMunayGas” JSC 51 Third party opinion Appendices Environmental performance Biodiversity data Upstream Midstream Downsrteam Onshore Offshore 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 Greenhouse gases emissions (GHG) Sites in which biodiversity is covered 100 100 100 100 Direct GHG emissions (CO2, mln tons) 2,6 2,4 0,6 0,8 2,6 2,7 in EIA or similar document (%) GHG emissions intensity (tons of CO2 on 1k of production) 121,0 110,0 9,0 11,0 181,0 181,0 Sites with regular environmental 100 100 100 100 APG flaring monitoring Volume of Associated gas flaring (mln tons of CO2) 0,6 0,5 Contracting territories (thousand ha) 454 454 194 194 Volume of gas flared per unit of production (tons per 1000 tons of 12,0 9,5 production) not not Potential area of impact (thousand ha) 581 581 Flared gas (mln m3) 309,4 243,5 defined defined Energy intensity Special protected zones 1498 1498 9815 9 815 Energy consumption (mln GJ) 26,9 24,6 34,1 48,4 50,8 51,7 (thousand ha) Energy consumprion intensity (GJ per 1 ton of production) 1,9 1,9 0,5 0,7 3,6 3,5 IUCN management areas within area 223 223 0 0 Pollutant emissions of potential impact (thousand ha) SOx (ktons SO2) 441,7 398,3 0,7 0,7 9,4 8,7 UNESCO world heritage sites within 0 0 0 0 NOx (ktons NO2) 3,3 2,3 2,1 3,0 4,9 2,2 area of potential impact (thousand ha) Spills UNESCO man and biosphere reserves Illegal tapping – volume (thousand tonnes) 0 0,03 0 0 0 0 within area of potential impact 0 0 0 0 Illegal tapping – number 0 1 3 1 0 0 (thousand ha) Operational spills – volume (thousand tonnes) 0,02 0,00 0 0 0 0 RAMSAR wetlands within area of 0 0 65 65 Water potential impact (thousand ha) Total water withdrawal (mln m3) 49,7 49,1 9,7 8,9 28,3 28,6 Alliance for Zero Extinction area Water withdrawal intenisty (thousand m3 of water per thousand ton of within area of potential impact 0 0 0 0 3,2 3,2 0,1 0,1 2,0 1,9 hydrocarbon produced) (thousand ha) Water discharge volume (million cubic meters) 0,8 0,9 1,1 1,2 6,1 6,0 Key biodiversity areas within area of Produced water volume (million cubic meters) 122,1 n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a potential impact (thousand ha) 3 7,8 n/a Produced water intensity (mln m per kton of oil production) Important bird areas within area of Waste n/a n/a 480 480 potential impact (thousand ha) Hazardous (ktons) 81,1 82,4 2,5 7,3 116,1 52,4 Total species in the Red Book Non-hazardous (ktons) 14,1 20,1 8,2 8,1 12,8 19,8 82 82 111 111 (thousand ha) Total waste (ktons) 95,2 102,5 10,6 15,4 128,9 72,2 Total IUCN listed wildlife mortalities Waste generation intensity (per ton of production) 4,6 4,9 0,2 0,2 8,7 4,3 5 5 n/a n/a (number) drilling waste, onshore (ktons) 283,4 353,5 drilling waste, offshore (ktons) 2,1 1,8 Regional rare species (number) 27 27 14 14 Operational Process Safety Events 3 2 1 1 2 0 Endemic species (number) 23 23 40 40 GRI Index 53 General standard disclosures General Standard External assurance this report has Location in the report Page Number Disclosures not undergone external assurance STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS G4-1 A Message from Our Chairman & CEO 5 No G4-2 Risk Management; Policy & management, Climate change 9, 26, 30-31 No ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE G4-3 Contact information 62 No G4-4 Our Operations and Assets 3, 12-13 No G4-5 Contact information 62 No G4-6 Our Operations and Assets 3, 12-13 No G4-7 Contact information 62 No G4-8 Our Operations and Assets 3, 12-13 No G4-9 Our people; Our economic input 3, 12-13, 48-49 No G4-10 About KMG 3 No G4-11 Human rights 24 No G4-12 Our Operations and Assets; Procurement practicies 3, 47 No G4-13 Our Operations and Assets 3, 12-13 No G4-14 Community engagement 43 No G4-15 Interview with our Senior Vice-President; 2015 Year of HSE; Our Operations and Assets 6-7, 13, 14 No G4-16 Our Operations and Assets 13 No IDENTIFIED MATERIAL ASPECTS AND BOUNDARIES G4-17 About our report 2 No G4-18 About our report; Sustainability issues identified as “material” for KMG 2, 16 No G4-19 Our approach to sustainability; GRI Index 17, 53 No G4-20 About our report; Energy Use and Energy Efficiency; Greenhouse gases and ozone-depleting substances 2, 27, 31 No G4-21 About our report 2 No G4-22 not applicable not applicable No G4-23 Sustainability issues identified as “material” for KMG; GRI Index 16, 53 No STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT G4-24 OUR STAKEHOLDERS 14-15 No G4-25 OUR STAKEHOLDERS 14-15 No G4-26 OUR STAKEHOLDERS; Climate change 14-15; 30-31 No G4-27 Sustainability issues identified as “material” for KMG 16 No Appendices : GRI Index General Standard External assurance this report has Location in the report Page Number Disclosures not undergone external assurance REPORT PROFILE G4-28 About our report 2 No G4-29 About our report 2 No G4-30 About our report 2 No G4-31 Contact information 62 No G4-32 About our report; GRI Index 2, 53 No G4-33 About our report 2 No GOVERNANCE G4-34 Corporate Governance 8-9 No G4-35 Corporate Governance 8-9 No G4-36 KMG Annual report Organizational structure KMG Annual report No G4-37 Corporate Governance 8-9 No G4-38 Corporate Governance; KMG Annual report KMG Board of Directors 8-9; KMG Annual report No G4-39 *According to KMG internal regulations, the Group CEO cannot hold a position as Chairman of the Board No G4-40 KMG Annual report KMG Board of Directors KMG Annual report No G4-41 KMG Annual report KMG Board of Directors KMG Annual report No G4-42 Corporate Governance 8-9 No G4-43 KMG Annual report KMG Board of Directors KMG Annual report No G4-44 Corporate Governance; KMG Annual report KMG Board of Directors 8-9; KMG Annual report No G4-45 Risk Management Approach 9 No G4-46 Risk Management Approach 9 No G4-47 Risk Management Approach 9 No G4-48 About our report 2 No G4-49 Corporate Governance 8-9 No G4-50 KMG Annual report KMG Board of Directors KMG Annual report No G4-51 KMG Annual report KMG Board of Directors KMG Annual report No G4-52 KMG Annual report KMG Board of Directors KMG Annual report No G4-53 KMG Annual report KMG Board of Directors KMG Annual report No G4-54 not reported due to confidentiality No G4-55 not reported due to confidentiality No ETHICS AND INTEGRITY G4-56 Advice Seeking & Grievance Mechanisms Code of ethics 11 No G4-57 Advice Seeking & Grievance Mechanisms Code of ethics 11 No G4-58 Advice Seeking & Grievance Mechanisms Code of ethics 11 No 55 Specific standard disclosures External Assurance DMA and Identified Reason for Explanation for this report has not Location in the report Page Number Indicators Omission Omission Omission undergone external assurance CATEGORY: ECONOMIC MATERIAL ASPECT: ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE G4-DMA A Message from Our Chairman & CEO 5 No G4-EC1 Our Economic Impact 48-49 No Interview with our Senior Vice-President; Climate change, KazMunayTeniz case G4-EC2 6, 30-31, 36-38 No study; Impact on Biodiversity G4-EC3 Care for our people 21 No KMG does not receive financial G4-EC4 not applicable No assistant from government MATERIAL ASPECT: INDIRECT ECONOMIC IMPACTS G4-DMA Our communities 42 No G4-EC7 Water management; Community engagement; Market presence; Impact chart 29, 42-43, 44, 48-49 No G4-EC8 A Message from Our CEO; Community engagement; Market Presence; Impact chart 5, 42-43, 44, 48-49 No MATERIAL ASPECT: PROCUREMENT PRACTICES G4-DMA Procurement practices 47 No G4-EC9 Procurement practices 47 No MATERIAL ASPECT: RESERVES G4-DMA Annual report: Upstream proven reserves KMG Annual report No OG1 Annual report: Upstream proven reserves KMG Annual report No CATEGORY: ENVIRONMENTAL MATERIAL ASPECT: ENERGY G4-DMA Policies & Management; Energy Use and Energy Efficiency; Energy saving measures 26-28 No G4-EN3 Energy Use and Energy Efficiency; Energy saving measures; Appendices 27-28, 52 No Energy According to the consumption legislation we outside the Data is not G4-EN4 monitor energy No organization is not monitored consumption inside presented in this the organizations report Appendices: GRI Index External Assurance DMA and Identified Reason for Explanation for this report has not Location in the report Page Number Indicators Omission Omission Omission undergone external assurance G4-EN5 Energy Use and Energy Efficiency; Energy saving measures; Appendices 27-28, 52 No G4-EN6 Energy Use and Energy Efficiency; Energy saving measures; Appendices 27-28, 52 No G4-EN7 Energy Use and Energy Efficiency; Energy saving measures; Appendices 27-28, 52 No The company does not invest into OG2 not applicable No alternative energy resources The company does not invest into OG3 not applicable No alternative energy resources MATERIAL ASPECT: WATER G4-DMA Water management 29 No G4-EN8 Water management 29 No G4-EN9 Water management; Appendices 29, 52 No G4-EN10 Water management Pavlodar refinery modernization project; Appendices 29, 52 No MATERIAL ASPECT: BIODIVERSITY G4-DMA Impact on biodiversity 36 No G4-EN11 Protected areas; Appendices 36-38, 52 No G4-EN12 Protected areas; Water management; Appendices 29,38, 52 No G4-EN13 Conservation of biodiversity; Climate change; Appendices 30-31, 38, 52 No G4-EN14 Protected areas; Appendices 37-38, 52 No OG4 Impact on biodiversity; Appendices 36-37, 52 No MATERIAL ASPECT: EMISSIONS G4-DMA Air quality management 30 No G4-EN15 Greenhouse gases and ozone-depleting substances; Appendices 31, 52 No Current legislation Monitoring is not included in this requires monitoring G4-EN16 planned to be No report of direct emissions done in future only Current legislation Monitoring is not included in this requires monitoring G4-EN17 planned to be No report of direct emissions done in future only 57 External Assurance DMA and Identified Reason for Explanation for this report has not Location in the report Page Number Indicators Omission Omission Omission undergone external assurance G4-EN18 Greenhouse gases emissions intensity; Appendices 32, 52 No G4-EN19 Greenhouse gases and ozone-depleting substances; Appendices 31-32, 52 No Incidents of Our company ozone-depleting conducts periodic Quantative substances Greenhouse gases emissions intensity; Greenhouse gases and ozone-depleting monitoring of G4-EN20 31, 52 indicators are not emissions are very No substances; Appendices ozone-depleting presented rare and occur substances in insignificant emissions amount G4-EN21 Pollutant emissions 33 No MATERIAL ASPECT: EFFLUENTS AND WASTE G4-DMA Waste management 34 No G4-EN22 Water management; Appendices 29, 52 No G4-EN23 Waste management; Appendices 34-35, 52 No G4-EN24 Oil spill preparedness and prevention; Appendices 39, 52 No G4-EN25 Waste management; Appendices 35, 52 No Location of production units in G4-EN26 Relation to natural reserves; Protected areas; Conservation of biodiversity; 37-38, 52 No Appendices OG5 Water management; Appendices 29, 52 No OG6 World Bank Independent Opinion; Associated gas utilization; Appendices 32-33, 52 No OG7 Waste management; Appendices 34-35, 52 No Compliance Payments for environmental G4-EN29 impact & protection 40 окружающей среды MATERIAL ASPECT: OVERALL G4-DMA Policies and Management; Payments for environmental impact & protection 26, 40-41 No G4-EN31 Policies and Management; Payments for environmental impact & protection 26, 40-41 No Appendices: GRI Index External Assurance DMA and Identified Reason for Explanation for this report has not Location in the report Page Number Indicators Omission Omission Omission undergone external assurance CATEGORY: SOCIAL SUB-CATEGORY: LABOR PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK MATERIAL ASPECT: EMPLOYMENT G4-DMA Our people 18 No G4-LA1 About KMG 3 No G4-LA2 Care for our people 21 No G4-LA3 Care for our people 21 No MATERIAL ASPECT: OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY G4-DMA Occupational health & safety 18 No G4-LA5 Occupational health & safety 18 No G4-LA6 Occupational health & safety, Occupational health 18-20 No G4-LA7 Occupational health & safety 19 No G4-LA8 Occupational health 20 No MATERIAL ASPECT: TRAINING AND EDUCATION G4-DMA Employee development 22 No G4-LA9 Employee development 22 No G4-LA10 Employee development 22 No G4-LA11 Employee evaluation 23 No MATERIAL ASPECT: DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY G4-DMA Our people 18 No G4-LA12 About KMG 3 No MATERIAL ASPECT: EQUAL REMUNERATION FOR WOMEN AND MEN G4-DMA Personnel motivation 23 No G4-LA13 Personnel motivation 23 No MATERIAL ASPECT: LABOR PRACTICES GRIEVANCE MECHANISMS G4-DMA Grievance mechanisms 24 No G4-LA16 Grievance mechanisms 24 No 59 External Assurance DMA and Identified Reason for Explanation for this report has not Location in the report Page Number Indicators Omission Omission Omission undergone external assurance SUB-CATEGORY: HUMAN RIGHTS MATERIAL ASPECT: NON-DISCRIMINATION G4-DMA Human rights 24 No G4-HR3 Human rights 24 No MATERIAL ASPECT: FREEDOM OF ASSOCIATION AND COLLECTIVE BARGAINING G4-DMA Human rights 24 No G4-HR4 Human rights 24 No MATERIAL ASPECT: CHILD LABOR G4-DMA Human rights 24 No G4-HR5 Human rights 24 No MATERIAL ASPECT: FORCED OR COMPULSORY LABOR G4-DMA Human rights 24 No G4-HR6 Human rights 24 No MATERIAL ASPECT: SECURITY PRACTICES G4-DMA Anticorruption mechanisms 11 No G4-HR7 Anticorruption mechanisms 11 No Indigenous rights G4-HR8 Human rights 24 OG9 not applicable No SUB-CATEGORY: SOCIETY MATERIAL ASPECT: LOCAL COMMUNITIES G4-DMA Our communities 42 No G4-SO1 Water management; Community engagement; Market presence 29, 36, 42, 44 No G4-SO2 Community engagement 42 No OG10 not applicable No OG11 not applicable No MATERIAL ASPECT: ANTI-CORRUPTION G4-DMA Anticorruption mechanisms 11 No Appendices: GRI Index External Assurance DMA and Identified Reason for Explanation for this report has not Location in the report Page Number Indicators Omission Omission Omission undergone external assurance G4-SO3 Anticorruption mechanisms 11 No G4-SO4 Anticorruption mechanisms 11 No G4-SO5 Anticorruption mechanisms 11 No MATERIAL ASPECT: COMPLIANCE G4-DMA Human rights 24 No G4-SO8 Our economic impact 48-49 No MATERIAL ASPECT: EMERGENCY PREPAREDNESS G4-DMA Oil spill preparedness and prevention 38-39 MATERIAL ASPECT: ASSET INTEGRITY AND PROCESS SAFETY G4-DMA Oil spill preparedness and prevention 38-39 OG13 Oil spill preparedness and prevention 38-39 No SUB-CATEGORY: PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY MATERIAL ASPECT: CUSTOMER HEALTH AND SAFETY G4-DMA Market Presense 44 No G4-PR1 Market Presense 44 No G4-PR2 Market Presense 44 No MATERIAL ASPECT: PRODUCT AND SERVICE LABELING G4-DMA Product marketing & labelling 44-45 No G4-PR3 Product marketing & labelling 44-45 No G4-PR4 Market Presense 44 No G4-PR5 Working with clients 46 No MATERIAL ASPECT: MARKETING COMMUNICATIONS G4-DMA Product marketing & labelling 44-45 No G4-PR6 Product marketing & labelling 44-45 No G4-PR7 Product marketing & labelling 44-45 No MATERIAL ASPECT: CUSTOMER PRIVACY G4-DMA Product marketing & labelling 44-45 No G4-PR8 Product marketing & labelling 44-45 No 61 Stakeholders feebdack form: Please dedicate a few minutes to fulfill our survey on 2015 Sustainability Report. Your Which of the following groups of stakeholders do you belong to? opinion is important to us as we continue to strive to improve our sustainability efforts. Your comments and suggestions would be greatly appreciated. Employee Local community member In which of the following topics you are interested the most? Stakeholder Environment NGO Occupational health and safety Media Employee development Supplier Community relationships Customer Product responsibility Business partner Company’s economic impact Authority representative Corporate Governance & Transparency Other In your opinion what was the level of disclosure of material aspects presented in this report? After reading the 2015 Sustainability Report, has your opinion of KMG Group been influenced at all? Detailed Positively influenced Average Not influenced Not detailed enough Negatively influenced Please specify any topics you would like to see in the 2016 Sustainability Report? Thank you for your cooperation! Your opinion will be taken into account during the preparation for the 2016 Sustainability Report. Appendices Contact information: Reporting team: Project coordinators: Joint Stock Company “National Company “KazMunayGas” Kuanbayeva Yelena Address: 010000, Astana city, Kabanbay batyra street 19 Zhakanova Moldir Tel: + 7 (7172) 78 61 01 Participants: Fax: + 7 (7172) 78 60 00 Abdirov Daniyar Abdrakhmanov Yerlan Website: www.kmg.kz Adamova Gulnara Azhgaliyev Baykhat email: Astana@kmg.kz Aliyev Kamilzhan Assylbayeva Zarina Ashim Kazbek Date of the report publishing: June, 2016 Baktykyzy Gulvira The previous Sustainable development report was published in 2015 Costinela Dragan Kaygeldinov Sayat Seidualiyev Nurmukhan Contact person: Sikachino Galina Tokusheva Gulkhanum Yelena Kuanbayeva ye.kuanbayeva@kmg.kz Yerkuliyeva Dalida Moldir Zhakanova m.zhakanova@kmg.kz Zhakenova Yerkesh
