Moser Baer India Limited [Communication on Progress 2015] Communication on Progress 2015 Moser Baer India Limited Page 1 Communication on Progress 2015 Moser Baer India Limited Page 2 Communication on Progress 2015 S. No Pages in Annual report Jan 15 – March 16 http://moserbaer.com/wpGlobal compact Summary of action taken & Impact achieved content/uploads/2015/07/MOSERBAERprinciples Annual_Report_2016-FULL.pdf 1. Businesses should Moser Baer is committed to invest in its human resource be it Page 9 support and respect the providing an enabling environment and protecting their rights. protection of Their rights are recognized within the company as the common internationally standard of achievement. We acknowledge the fact that the proclaimed common understanding and compliance to these rights and human rights freedoms are of the greatest importance hence particular attention is given to embedded them in our philosophy and daily operations. 2. Make sure that they As an SA 8000 certified company, We make sure that all our Page 11& 40-41 are not complicit in policies and practices are complying with the fundamental human rights abuses human rights. This includes equal chance to everyone to participate, protection from all forms of abuses as well as the freedom of thought through various forums. We also encourage to all are stakeholders to respect and comply with these core principles. 3. Businesses should We continued to encourage Associates Involvement in decision Page 40 uphold the freedom of making process through various committees’ like the Cafeteria association and the Committee, Transport Committee, and Sports Committee etc. effective recognition of At the same time, Employee Communication Forums like Open the Houses, Communication Meetings, Town-Halls, HR Help Desk right to collective and Grievance Resolution System provide all possible bargaining opportunities for employees to express and exchange views on Communication on Progress 2015 Moser Baer India Limited Page 3 the various issues that impact them. 4. Elimination of all We work in full compliance with the labour laws and forms of forced and regulations in the area that we operate in. The principles of compulsory labour non-discrimination, no forced labour, no child labour (under 18 years old) are highly respected by us. We also expect and encourage our business partners, suppliers and contractors to respect the same principles. 5. Effective abolition of Moser Baer is a SA 8000 certified company and various audits Page 9 &41 child labour and reviews are carried by the internal auditors as well as the external agencies to verify that the systems are free of unfairness and prejudice. The Company has neither encountered nor encouraged Child Labour. Regular audits are conducted as part of SA8000 and documented. 6. Elimination of We will make sure that each employee does not suffer from any Page 41 discrimination in respect kind of discrimination, feels integrated and happy within the of employment and company. occupation We believe in providing equal employment opportunity to all, irrespective of race, colour, creed, religion, national origin, sex and sexual orientation, disability, age, and marital status as our policy mandate. Regional diversity in hiring the employees also depicts nondiscrimination in the recruitment. 7. Businesses should We recognise the importance of protecting environment and Page 45 support a precautionary are committed to environmental issues. For us, addressing approach to environmental concerns and stakeholders needs simultaneously environmental is the key towards sustainable development. Environment, challenges health and safety (EHS) are an integral part of Moser Baer and focus on building a robust culture of EHS by involving employees at all verticals. It has achieved various milestones in terms of conserving environment. Communication on Progress 2015 Moser Baer India Limited Page 4 8. Undertake initiatives to Management programme related to improving energy Page 18 & 45 promote greater efficiency, water conversation and Bio gas from kitchen forms environmental integral part of EHS department. Moser Baer’s Integrated responsibility Management system (Comprising of ISO 9001:2008, OHSAS 18001;2007 & ISO 14001:2004) ,certified by leading and well reputed certification bodies show the commitment towards EHS in line with other important function i.e. Quality. A robust EHS audit, both internal and external, is carried out at all our locations periodically to ensure continual improvement in our environment, health and safety standards. 9. Encourage the We are committed to sustainably reduce our environmental Page 4-5 & 34-36 development and impact and continually improving our environmental diffusion performance as an integral and fundamental part of our of environmentally business strategy and operating methods. We have friendly technologies continuously been working and committed to develop the environment friendly products such as LED and renewable resources. We are aiming to align with the international standards (such as ISO 14001:2004) for environmental management systems. Our aim is to be an environmentally responsible organization. We also make conscious efforts towards raising awareness on environment friendly practices amongst our associates and other stakeholders. 10. Businesses should Moser Baer has designed the processes that ensures and curb all work against all forms of forms of corruption. We have a dedicated organisational policy corruption, including on anti-corruption that are being communicated and reinforce extortion and bribery the same on regular basis. It is also a part of our induction process wherein the new associates are being oriented during initial days with the company. Communication on Progress 2015 Moser Baer India Limited Page 5
