2016 Sustainability Report Wolters Kluwer 2016 Sustainability Report 3 Table of Contents 4 CEO Introduction 6 Sustainability at a Glance 7 Innovation-driven Sustainability 7 Growing Our Value 8 Our Sustainability Strategy 9 Materiality 11 Good Governance 11 Good Governance Structure 12 Our Company Values and Business Principles 15 Tax Principles 15 Together with our Stakeholders 17 Risk Management 19 Customers & Solutions 19 Our Ambition: Right Solutions for Right Decisions 19 Our Strategy 26 Employee Engagement 26 Our Ambition: Stronger Together – One Wolters Kluwer 26 Our Strategy 33 Resource Management 33 Our Ambition: Larger Impact with Fewer Resources 35 Our Strategy 41 Community Involvement 41 Our Ambition: Caring for the Community 41 Our Strategy 45 Company Profile 48 About this Report 50 Contact & Report Information Wolters Kluwer 2016 Sustainability Report 4 CEO Introduction We are committed to sustainability as part of our day-to-day business. Sustainability is at the heart of our growth strategy and drives the way we interact with our stakeholders. We are a company striving to make a difference in many lives, businesses, and communities. By helping our customers improve the way they do business, provide better healthcare, navigate change and complexity, and build smarter legal systems, we are shaping a better future for us all. The impact of our endeavors and achievements in 2016, along with our ambitions for 2017 underline our strong commitment to the world around us. In 2016, we made significant progress towards achieving our objectives. We also celebrated our 180th year in business. While much has changed over this lengthy period, our intrinsic values and customer commitment continue to define who we are and where we are heading. Our rich heritage is the cornerstone of our corporate culture as we continuously transform and adjust to changing customer needs and market trends. Our heritage is one of reinvention and innovation through almost two centuries of disruption: from the turn of the 20th century and the dawn of the modern industrial economy, through the birth of the Internet, to the present digital age... We live in exciting times! Revenues from our digital products and services grew substantially in 2016, and currently account for 85% of total revenues. These digital products and services reduce paper consumption and at the same time increase the effectiveness and efficiency of our customers. In addition, we continue to reduce our overall footprint by sourcing We continue to allocate most of our capital to expanding responsible paper, managing our waste disposal, and our market coverage into areas where we see the best increasing our renewable energy use. potential for sustainable development and competitive advantages. Expansion also enables us to broaden our We are well into the second year of our Growing Our Value sales and marketing coverage in global markets. This strategy (2016-2018), which we believe will empower our organic growth strategy is underpinned by value-enhancing internal and external stakeholders by focusing on longacquisitions such as Enablon, the global provider term value creation. The key elements of Growing Our of environmental, health, safety, sustainability, and Value are respectively: Expand market coverage, Deliver operational risk management software and SaaS solutions. expert solutions, and Drive efficiencies and engagement. This acquisition fits well in our strategy and will contribute Wolters Kluwer 2016 Sustainability Report 5 to the positive impact our company has on customers In all the countries where we operate worldwide, and society. our employees take many initiatives to support local communities. Various examples of these activities can be Our focus on expert solutions means combining specialized found in this report. A good example is the Zika Resource technology and services with deep domain knowledge to Portal, which provides a trusted information source for deliver analytics, productivity, and value for our customers evolving clinical knowledge on this rapidly-spreading virus. and society. We aim at creating an all-around, rich digital experience for our customers by expanding our use of We remain committed to the principles of the United Nations Global Compact and OECD, and acknowledge the importance of the Sustainable Development Goals that Our commitment is to shape a the United Nations has set for 2017. We are delighted with our inclusion in the globally-respected Dow Jones better future for our customers, Sustainability Index for the 10th year in a row, as well as the FTSE4Good Index for the 3rd consecutive time. employees, and shareholders, while creating long-term value. For over 13 years we have reported on our sustainability performance. This year’s report is again based on the Global Reporting Index (GRI) G4 standard, and we continue new media channels. For the years ahead, we will maintain to demonstrate our results under our Sustainability investments in new and enhanced products at 8-10% of Framework: Customers & Solutions, Employee Engagement, total revenues. Resource Management, Community Involvement and Good Governance. We continue to drive efficiency, engagement and economies of scale while improving the quality of our At Wolters Kluwer, we strive to be inclusive and respectful offerings and the agility of our organization. Our second of everyone. Our commitment is to shape a better future Enterprise Global Employment Engagement survey helped for our customers, employees, and shareholders, while us to better understand our company, our brand, and creating long-term value. The performance of our people our values. Our Global Innovation Awards is an annual in 2016 fills me with pride and I would like to express my program aimed at endorsing an innovative culture within sincere appreciation to all those who work with us to our company. In 2016, sustainability was one of the create value at Wolters Kluwer through innovation-driven award categories. sustainability. Our company values are guiding principles for our Nancy McKinstry employees worldwide. Focus on Customer Success reflects our conviction that customers are at the center of everything we do. Our Make it Better promise includes our commitment to continuous improvement and innovation, CEO and Chairman of the Executive Board and emphasizes that our employees are global citizens who Wolters Kluwer care and give back. Our Aim High and Deliver proposition emphasizes our responsibility for the right results through personal and professional integrity. And it is our ambition to Win as a Team, by collaborating and sharing knowledge within a diverse and inspiring workforce. Wolters Kluwer 2016 Sustainability Report 6 Sustainability at a Glance We made major progress in benchmarking our sustainability performance in terms of strategy, policies, targets, and impact. The key achievements and ambitions are summarized below: Our Sustainability Achievements 85% 67% 12% of revenue of divisional CEOs reduction in generated from are female paper used digital and services Target Progress in 2016 Ensure high corporate governance standards 95% 90% of our employees worldwide to receive the renewed training program on compliance by the end of each year. 80% of employees who receive the training, complete the program and are certified on 97% compliance by the end of each year. Increase environmental sustainability 74% 90% of our printed media and our office paper is certified by the end of 2017 (FSC, PEFC, SFI, EU Ecolabel, Nordic Swan or Blauer Engel). Improve social sustainability 100% 100% of new or renewed engagements with material suppliers managed by our Global Procurement department include the Wolters Kluwer Supplier Code of Conduct (or equivalent standard) each year. 100% of material suppliers centrally managed by our Global Procurement department from 62% high-risk countries to be certified or audited by a credible sustainability standard by the end of 2017. As of 2017, 100% of our 100 largest suppliers centrally managed by our Global Procurement 42% department have signed the Wolters Kluwer Supplier Code of Conduct or have provided an equivalent standard. Wolters Kluwer 2016 Sustainability Report 7 Innovation-driven Sustainability By helping customers improve the way they do business, provide better healthcare, navigate change, and build better judicial and regulatory systems, Wolters Kluwer delivers value for its stakeholders and contributes to shaping a better future for society at large. This is our overarching purpose as a company. Through innovationdriven sustainability, we support our corporate strategy of creating value with our expert solutions, while making a positive impact on society. Our four strategic pillars – Customers & Solutions, Employee Engagement, Resource Management, and Community Involvement – help us create that value. The common foundation is Good Governance. To further develop our sustainability strategy and focus, we conduct materiality analyses that show our stakeholders’ interests and the impact of various topics on the strategy and operations of Wolters Kluwer. Growing Our Value Wolters Kluwer provides essential information, software, ―― Financial Capital – available funding for producing and services to doctors, nurses, accountants, lawyers, and information, expert solutions, and services; audit, compliance, and regulatory professionals. We enable ―― Business Partners – our partners provide us with our customers to provide world-class service and maximize expertise, materials, and services, thereby enabling us their potential. Our 2016-2018 business strategy is entitled to deliver innovative solutions for our customer; and Growing our Value. Our aim is to grow margins and returns ―― Technology & Intellectual Property – organizational, by adding value for our customers, our employees, and our knowledge-based intangibles that include intellectual shareholders. property and the company’s tacit knowledge. The Value Creation Model shows how our organization’s The core of our Value Creation Model is the corporate business model uses resources and transforms them strategy, Growing Our Value, which enables us to create through business activities to impacts that create value for long-term value for our stakeholders. The key elements of the organization, its stakeholders, and the environment. our strategy are: We consider the inclusion of this Value Creation Model as a first step in our journey towards Integrated Reporting. ―― Expand market coverage; ―― Deliver expert solutions; and The resources we use in our innovation-driven approach ―― Drive efficiencies and engagement. to sustainability are: A more comprehensive explanation of our strategy can be ―― Human Talent – the employees of Wolters Kluwer are found in our 2016 Annual Report. competent, capable, and experienced, and they combine these qualities with a strong motivation to innovate; ―― Natural Capital all renewable and non-renewable environmental resources and processes that help Wolters Kluwer provide its expert solutions; Wolters Kluwer 2016 Sustainability Report 8 Value Creation Model Value Creation Resources Impact Enriching & Customer Fostering Retention Human Strong Brands Customers Talent Natural Digital Operational Capital Employees Innovation Expand Deliver Excellence Market Expert Financial Coverage Solutions Capital Drive Investors Smart Capital Efficiency & Business Talent Allocation Engagement Partners Management Technology & Society Intellectual Property Innovation-driven Good Sustainability Governance Our business processes generate value for our communities in our society. We provide access to our stakeholders and create various impacts: digital information resources for lowand middle―― Our customers make critical decisions every day; we income countries and in global disaster situations. help them move forward with confidence through our To contribute to society, Wolters Kluwer invests in high-quality expert solutions and services. Wolters communities and encourages long-term cooperation Kluwer provides essential information, software, and with a range of local non-profit organizations and Civil services, that enables healthcare, tax, finance and legal Society Organizations (CSOs). We are global citizens who professionals to be more effective and efficient. Our care and give back. products are used to improve healthcare, promote prevention, enhance financial security, achieve accuracy, mitigate risks, ensure compliance, drive resource Our Sustainability Strategy efficiency, and grant access to education and information, and as such have a positive impact on society. Wolters Kluwer’s innovation-driven approach to ―― Wolters Kluwer creates value for its employees by sustainability is a central part of our business strategy. continuously improving their working environment and By attempting to maximize social contribution and financial development opportunities, by paying salaries and results while minimizing our environmental impact and wages, social security and other employee benefits, contributing to a zero-waste society, sustainability remains and by providing employment. an important driver of long-term value creation for all ―― The company aims at long-term financial value creation our stakeholders. for its shareholders and other investors through a healthy return on investment, including dividend Wolters Kluwer has reported on its sustainability payments, and interest payments. performance for 13 years. Over this period, our strategy ―― As a member of different communities in various and markets have changed. Our sustainability framework stages of development, Wolters Kluwer acknowledges expresses how we align our various sustainability and accepts its responsibility to support underserved initiatives. Wolters Kluwer 2016 Sustainability Report 9 Sustainability Strategy Sustainability Framework Minimize Maximize Innovation-driven Sustainability Environmental Social Footprint Contribution Innovation-driven Sustainability Customers & Employee Resource Community Solutions Engagement Management Involvement Maximize Financial Results Good Governance Innovation-driven Sustainability: We use innovation as to identify critical economic, social, and environmental a catalyst for both operational excellence and product topics. We classify topics that drive value creation, as innovation. well as potential risk areas, as important to our business operations. We do this through a process of internal Customers & Solutions: Our innovative solutions alignment amongst various departments and through contribute to a better society by enabling our customers engagement with external stakeholders1. to take sustainable decisions every day. Furthermore, a materiality analysis (see diagram) helps Employee Engagement: We are an equal opportunity us to further develop the strategy and focus of our employer, focusing on talent development and growth, sustainability efforts. This way, the materiality analysis sparking innovation that leads to sustainable results for contributes to long-term value creation. In 2013, we drew Wolters Kluwer and our customers. up a list of material topics, and we have updated it every year since. Wolters Kluwer uses the external questions Resource Management: We are committed to it receives about its sustainability initiatives (from environmental and social responsibility in relation to both analysts, customers, and other relevant stakeholders) our suppliers and our own operations. to refine the list of material issues. This year, their feedback has triggered revisions to both the format of Community Involvement: Our products, solutions, the diagram and the positioning of material topics within and people are available in areas of need to make a the diagram. Finally, we provided internal stakeholders sustainable, long-term impact within local communities. with this materiality analysis to gain cross-divisional and functional feedback. Good Governance: Building a successful business with sustainable impact is dependent on good governance. The materiality analysis is divided into four parts based on the relative importance of topics to both stakeholders and our business operations. Materiality Furthermore, the material topics are categorized in Materiality is a principle that defines sustainability the sustainability pillars from our Innovation-driven topics and their relevance to our business operations Sustainability Framework. This shows how we address and stakeholders and when stakeholders view them as these topics. More information on the material topics can impactful. Wolters Kluwer conducts materiality analyses be found in each of the following chapters. 1 More information on our stakeholder engagement process can be found in the Good Governance chapter. Wolters Kluwer 2016 Sustainability Report 10 Aligning Engaging When our stakeholders deem topics to be of high We engage with the communities in which we operate. importance for our business and these topics make a To maximize impact with the available resources, powerful impact on Wolters Kluwer, we classify them under it is important to measure the contributions of our ‘Aligning.’ These material topics are of vital importance community investment. and are key drivers of our business success. We align our strategy and operations with our stakeholders’ opinions Monitoring and interests. As a digital information products and services company there are topics that have low impact or do not create Informing value to our operations, in addition to being of low interest We classify topics that stakeholders regard as important to our stakeholders. We therefore choose to monitor these under ‘Informing’. We communicate our ambitions for topics by measuring their use and reporting on them. Each these topics and evaluate our performance accordingly. materiality topic has been aligned with one of the pillars Although we do not assess them as critical to our business that together comprise our sustainability framework. More performance, we acknowledge their importance to information can be found in the following sections. our stakeholders. Materiality Analysis High Informing Aligning 4 1 2 5 1 2 2 Stakeholder interest 3 1 1 3 1 6 Monitoring Engaging Low Impact on Wolters Kluwer High Good Governance Community Involvement 1 Good Governance 1 Support underserved communities Customers & Solutions Resource Management 1 Privacy and Data Protection 1 Socially Responsible Supply Chain 2 Effective and Efficient access to Information 2 Responsible Paper Use 3 Paper Use Employee Engagement 4 Energy and Emissions Operations 1 Talent Development 5 Waste Management 2 Diversity and Equal Opportunity 6 Water Use 3 Health and Safety Wolters Kluwer 2016 Sustainability Report 11 Good Governance The foundation for building a sustainable business is, put simply, good governance. As a provider of governance-related expert solutions, we want to lead by example. It is essential for all our stakeholders that we demonstrate how we do this and how we regard the role of corporate governance within our overall sustainability strategy. Good Governance Structure Corporate governance is the key to improving our for achieving the company’s strategy as well as managing company’s decision-making processes. It helps us the associated risk profile, the development of results, maintain our credibility amongst external and internal and the sustainability strategy topics. The integration of stakeholders. We comply with national and international sustainability strategies into the business is driven by the governance regulations and principles at Wolters Kluwer. Executive Board. Maarten Thompson, Senior Vice President, These include the Dutch Corporate Governance Code as General Counsel and Company Secretary, is accountable well as international guidelines such as the Organization for our sustainability policy and leads the Corporate for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) Sustainability team. He reports to Nancy McKinstry, Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises and the United CEO and Chairman of the Executive Board. Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights (UNGP). In 2016 we reviewed the new Dutch Corporate The role of the Supervisory Board is to supervise the Governance Code which will become applicable as of strategic direction of the company and the policies of reporting year 2017. the Executive Board and to advise the Executive Board, taking the interests of the company’s stakeholders into Wolters Kluwer has a two-tier board structure. The consideration. In addition, the Supervisory Board has Executive Board is responsible for the day-to-day due regard for relevant corporate sustainability topics. operations of the company. The Board is also responsible All Supervisory Board members are independent of the Governance Structure Supervisory Board Executive Board Corporate Office Health Tax & Accounting Governance, Risk & Legal & Regulatory Compliance Emerging & Global Business Global Platform Developing Markets Services Organization Wolters Kluwer 2016 Sustainability Report 12 Company Values Explaining the materiality Focus on Customer Success Make it Better topics on Good Governance Customers are at the center of We’re committed everything we do. to continuous For a global company with a diverse product improvement and portfolio, good governance is an essential element innovation. to improve the company’s decision-making processes and to maintain and boost credibility among internal and external stakeholders. Wolters Aim High and Deliver Win as a Team Kluwer acknowledges the vital importance of good We’re responsible for We’re stronger governance and regards it as the foundation of the right results. together. its innovation-driven sustainability strategy. company within the meaning of Best Practice Provision They are at the heart of our company's future success and III.2.2 of the Dutch Corporate Governance Code. This is represent the “One Wolters Kluwer” approach, the common company policy and is reviewed annually if applicable. bond across all Wolters Kluwer businesses and employees. Wolters Kluwer values diversity in its Boards about expertise, experience and gender. The expertise matrix and Our business principles reflect the high ethical and selection criteria are intended to safeguard this diversity. 2 professional standards we expect our employees to adhere to. In combination with our company values, the business The remuneration of the Executive Board is based on three principles act as a framework for achieving goals and for elements: a base salary, a Short-Term Incentive Plan (STIP) conducting business in an ethical manner. on which a cash bonus can be earned, and a Long-Term Incentive Plan (LTIP) on which performance shares can be The business principles encompass: earned. At Wolters Kluwer, 5% of the Executive Board’s STIP is based on revenues from digital products as a percentage 1 Our responsibilities towards society at large. of total revenues. The STIP bonus for each Executive Board 2 Our responsibilities towards our employees. member is only paid after external auditor verification of 3 Our responsibilities with respect to customers and other the company’s financial statements, including the financial business partners. performance indicators on which the STIP targets are 4 Our employee responsibilities towards one another and based. The Supervisory Board has selected revenues from Wolters Kluwer. digital products as a percentage of total revenues as the key sustainability indicator at Wolters Kluwer. For more The business principles apply to all Wolters Kluwer details on remuneration, please review the 2016 Annual managers, employees, and temporary hired staff worldReport, the Remuneration Report and Note 34. wide. They are not voluntary, nor can they be applied selectively. Our Company Values and Business Principles The Company Values and Business Principles policy forms the basis of our other policies. Every year, we review our Our Company Values and Business Principles set a policies and update them where appropriate. In 2016, framework for achieving our goals and for conducting the following policies were updated: Company Values business in an ethical manner. Our company values serve and Business Principles, Acceptable Use Policy, Global as guidelines for our employees and are designed to IT Security Policy, Insider Dealing Policy, and Supplier Code facilitate the achievement of our company goals. of Conduct. 2 More information on our selection process, expertise matrix and selection criteria can be found on our website. Wolters Kluwer 2016 Sustainability Report 13 Compliance It is now our ongoing target to have at least 90% of our The Company Values and Business Principles establish employees worldwide follow and complete an online the way we wish to work and be perceived, as well as the compliance training each year. rules and regulations with which our all employees are expected to comply. Several other policies provide detailed We implemented a company-wide Compliance Training guidelines for specific subjects across the company. Program in 2015, in which employees were asked to attend A company-wide management certification process is in online training and certify their acknowledgement of the place, requiring management from each of the operating Company Values and Business Principles, along with Antientities and divisions to sign a Letter of Representation Corruption, Competition Law and IT Security Awareness every quarter. Management confirms in these Letters of policies and regulations. Wolters Kluwer aims to have Representation that it complies with all applicable laws, a continuous awareness and training program in place policies, and procedures. In addition, employees of the for its employees in order to raise awareness on topics vast majority of our businesses around the world have included in our policies. Therefore, we further enhanced been trained in and acknowledge compliance with the the Compliance Training Program in 2016 by making the Company Values and Business Principles, and most of the online courses more attractive and relevant for employees. policies listed above. The training and implementation The 2016 version included good conduct and ethics, antiof the principles have: bribery and anti-corruption, fair competing (anti-trust), whistleblowing, IT security, and cyber risks. A new program ―― improved the way employees perform their duties on cyber security was added, consisting of both online safely, correctly and efficiently; training and face-to-face sessions. Our Global IT Security ―― enhanced employee knowledge on what is allowed team visited our business units in various countries to in their communication with customers, colleagues, present live cyber security awareness workshops. suppliers, and other stakeholders; and ―― improved data security at Wolters Kluwer (including Our history as a publishing company and the adherence customer, employee, and patient data). to our own values make it imperative that we uphold the idea of editorial independence. We strive to deliver highWe set the following targets in 2014: quality content in an impartial manner, both as a matter of integrity and in the interest of providing the greatest value ―― 90% of our employees worldwide to receive the renewed to our customers. For these reasons, we have incorporated training program on compliance. our views on this topic in our Business Principles ―― 80% complete the program and are certified on and Human Rights Policy, stipulating that editorial compliance by the end of 2015. independence and freedom of publishing are important values at Wolters Kluwer. Our Policies Publicly Available Internally Available Auditor Independence Policy Acceptable Use Policy * Company Values and Business Principles Global IT Security Policy Insider Dealing Policy Global Travel Policy Environmental Policy Mobile Devices and iPad Policy Human Rights Policy Social Media Guidelines / Global Standards Supplier Code of Conduct ** Tax Principles Whistleblower Policy * This policy was updated in 2016. However, in certain European countries it is currently under review by relevant Works Councils and thus not yet applied. ** This policy was updated in 2016. For more background please see the section on Resource Management. Wolters Kluwer 2016 Sustainability Report 14 % employees worldwide that have received and completed Received Completed Received Completed the Compliance Training Program 2016 2016 2015 2015 Conduct & Ethics Training 95% 97% 96% 99% IT Security Awareness Training 75% 97% 96% 99% Fair Competition & Trading Training 95% 97% 96% 99% Cyber Security Training 92% 96% n/a n/a The Compliance Training Program took place from October 1, 2016 to December 31, 2016. The numbers above reflect the status as of December 31, 2016. However, employees continued to complete their training throughout January 2017, and as of February 1, 2017 the percentages for training completion are as follows: 98% Conduct & Ethics Training; 98% IT Security Awareness Training; 98% Fair Competition & Trading Training; and 98% Cyber Security Training. Employees in the Netherlands, Belgium, Germany, and Italy did not receive the IT Security Awareness Training due to pending Works Councils approvals; Employees in France, Spain, Czech Republic and Slovak Republic were not invited to participate in the Compliance Training Program due to pending fulfillment of data protection requirements. Weighted % Of Employees Covered by Measures to 2016 2015 2014 2013 Handle Complaints and Grievances Whistleblowing 100% 100% 100% 100% Help line 87% 78% 74% 71% Independent person 99% 99% 93% 98% Counseling 86% 87% 87% 86% Strict confidentiality ensured 97% 97% 98% 99% Policies and related information widely circulated in appropriate languages 100% 100% 96% 96% Year over year Wolters Kluwer ensures that its workforce has at least one tool for complaints and grievances. The help line has been rolled out in India and Italy which offset increase in coverage. Our counselling tool coverage decreased by less than 1%, was impacted by the growth of FTEs in countries where this tool has not been rolled out. Significant fines and sanctions imposed on Wolters Kluwer legal entities due to 2016 2015 non-compliance with laws or regulations Aggregate monetary value of significant fines (€) 19,432 85,849 Total number of non-monetary sanctions Our employees are made aware of our clearly-defined with new Dutch legislation Wet Huis voor klokkenluiders Whistleblower Policy through our compliance training. (Dutch House for Whistleblowers Act). During 2016, no This policy is available in 10 different languages and sets breaches were reported directly to the Wolters Kluwer forth to whom employees should go in the event of a Compliance Committee. perceived breach. The whistleblower can report the breach in good faith to a direct manager, HR manager or higher Wolters Kluwer complies with local regulations and labor management, without fear of retaliation. Employees can laws while placing special emphasis on the working also notify the Wolters Kluwer Compliance Committee. In the environment and safety of its employees. We maintain event that the breach relates to a member of the Executive contact with many local labor unions. The specific Board, Supervisory Board or the Wolters Kluwer Compliance legislation and requirements around labor unions Committee, the employee can also contact the Chairman vary considerably per country. Wolters Kluwer is also of the Supervisory Board directly. Those in question will be responsible and accountable for upholding human rights notified of the report of a breach and given the opportunity by monitoring the performance of its companies and to defend themselves. In 2016, the Whistleblower Policy was business units worldwide. Employees wishing to report particularly highlighted in the Compliance Training Program. breaches or violations with respect to the Wolters Kluwer We are working on an addition to the Whistleblower Policy Human Rights policy can proceed according to the rules specifically for employees in the Netherlands, in accordance and procedures as described in our Whistleblower Policy. Wolters Kluwer 2016 Sustainability Report 15 Wolters Kluwer aims at complying with applicable laws and We maintain regular contact with stakeholders including regulations. Most of the fines imposed on legal entities in investors, Environmental, Social, and Governance (ESG) which the company has a majority shareholding related analysts and rating agencies, government offices, the in 2015 to late tax filings. Wolters Kluwer took measures in media, Civil Society Organizations (CSOs), and educational 2016 to address these topics. and research institutions. We do this to indicate our commitment to the joint effort to increase the pace of sustainable development. Investors raise questions Tax Principles on sustainability during our Annual General Meeting of Shareholders. We use global surveys to request and Wolters Kluwer is a global company and we conduct our determine the views of our employees. business in over 180 countries, with offices in over 40 countries. We are aware that each country has its own Our active stakeholder engagement process creates legislation about levying corporate income taxes. As a opportunities and benefits for both parties. Our approach leader in tax and accounting products we take our tax is as follows: responsibility seriously and we understand the business and financial risks that could impact our reputation, brand Identifying important stakeholders across core activities or the relationship with our stakeholders in the event of Alongside the materiality analysis, Wolters Kluwer non-compliance. We developed the Wolters Kluwer Tax identifies material stakeholders who either have a high Principles to communicate our commitment to responsible impact potential on our business or vice versa. tax payments. We disclose the effective tax rate every year, derived from the average of the statutory tax rates Communicating directly through meetings, calls, and levied on taxable income in the respective countries where email dialogue Wolters Kluwer operates. We summarize the tax rates of We are in direct contact with our stakeholders through recent years in the following table: email, phone calls, and meetings. Some of our stakeholders reach out to us with the request to fill in their supplier Effective Tax Rate sustainability survey and subsequently provide us with 2016 25.7% their recommendations on how we can improve our 2015 21.9% sustainability performance. 2014 7.4% Collecting and providing different views and feedback 2013 28.0% Wolters Kluwer ensures it is abreast of the latest Benchmark 2016 26.8% information on trending topics such as tax, diversity, In 2016 the reported effective tax rate increased to 25.7%. In 2014 data security, and privacy, through the use of reports the reported effective tax rate was 7.4% mainly as a result of and direct communication. Our Annual General Meeting non-recurring items: non-taxable revaluation gain on Datacert and of Shareholders is pen of our platforms to communicate positive tax impacts related to previously divested assets, partially about specific topics such as our targets and our supplier offset by the taxable transfer of technology assets within the management. Wolters Kluwer Group related to the consolidation of its platform technology. We consider our benchmark effective tax rate a balanced average tax rate given our global spread of activities. Integrating the feedback into our sustainability strategy We collect information to help us improve our sustainability strategy throughout the year. This may Together with our Stakeholders include wide-ranging views and feedback on our material topics, enabling us to revise our materiality analysis. Our challenge is to ensure long-term business success We create optimal value through sustainable solutions by while making a positive impact on society. We understand engaging our suppliers, customers, employees, investors that this can only be realized in harmony with our and the communities in which we operate. One of the ways stakeholders. we engage with stakeholders is through our memberships3. 3 A list of our memberships can be found in the Appendix of the Sustainability Report on our website. Wolters Kluwer 2016 Sustainability Report 16 Stakeholder Engagement Assurance des Commerçants et Industriels de France (MACIF), Metropole, Morgan Stanley Capital International (MSCI), Natixis, Kommunikationsbüro für Ökologie Cus s to und Kommunikation (Oekom), STOXX, Sustainalytics, t or m v es er Transparency Benchmark, Vereniging van Beleggers In s voor Duurzame Ontwikkeling (VBDO) and Vigeo. We also responded to the CDP Supply Chain 2016 Climate Change Innovationquestionnaire. driven Sustainability Sup pl ie t y We are proud of the recognition we received in 2016: Soc ier 1 We were included in the Dow Jones Sustainability Index s for the 10th year in a row. We see this as an endorsement of our commitment to corporate responsibility. Em p lo y e e s Customers The Wolters Kluwer innovation program is built on understanding and anticipating ever-changing customer 2 As part of their Sustainability Yearbook 2016, we were requirements. We review the needs and behavior of our awarded the Bronze Class Sustainability Award 2016 customers and keep a close eye on market trends. We from RobecoSAM. realize that engagement and a close relationship with our customers is vital to building the innovative solutions that Society meet their expectations. Wolters Kluwer, as a member of different communities and society at large, understands its responsibility to Employees support underserved communities and recognizes the Our diverse and talented workforce is our most valuable opportunities within them. We provide access to our asset. It is vital to recruit, develop, and retain the digital information as part of our charitable donations right talent for the right jobs in a rapidly-transitioning program. In order to provide assistance in times of crisis, market. Our employee engagement programs reflect our disaster relief programs operate on a global level. this understanding. Career development is crucial; our Our Health division pulled their resources together into programs provide our people with the right tools to work a special Zika Resource Portal – a single point of access more effectively, and we do what it takes to make them to help the healthcare community stay abreast of the proud to be building One Wolters Kluwer. implications of this rapidly growing virus4. The Wolters Kluwer community investment program contributes to Investors local communities by encouraging close and long-term Responsible investment strategies are becoming cooperation with a range of local non-profit organizations, increasingly mainstream due to the value they create. CSOs and the United Nations. Wolters Kluwer is aware of the demands of the financial community for the transparency of these policies. We understand the criteria thanks to our continuous quest for dialogue with ESG experts, and we are able to convey our policies transparently. Our participation in reports and sustainability analyses includes studies from: Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP), Corporate Knights, Dow Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI), Ethical Investment Research and Information Service (EIRIS), F&C Investments (part of Bank of Montreal), Financial Times Stock Exchange for Good (FTSE4Good), Good Growth Fund, Mutuelle 4 More information can be found in the chapter ‘Community Involvement’. Wolters Kluwer 2016 Sustainability Report 17 Rating agency 2016 2015 2014 Dow Jones Sustainability Indices Included Included Included CDP Investor Included Included Included FTSE4Good Included Included Included RobecoSAM Sustainability Bronze Class Sustainability Bronze Class Sustainability Bronze Class Sustainability Year Book Award 2016 Award 2015 Award 2014 STOXX Included Included Included Corporate Knights Global 100 Included Not Included Included Around the world, sustainability strategies are becoming Suppliers increasingly important to tackle current and future Wolters Kluwer acknowledges that its responsibility in the challenges. In the endeavor to take global sustainable supply chain extends further than simply its operations. development to the next level, the United Nations launched Together with suppliers, our global procurement office the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) in 2015. These seeks solutions to relevant sustainability challenges. goals target different sectors and call for the engagement We monitor our suppliers from high-risk countries. And of various stakeholder groups. In this context, private we take the necessary action should they not meet our sector involvement has become an integral pillar to standards. improve the 17 SDGs. We acknowledge the importance of this involvement and believe that, as it relates to Wolters Kluwer, the greatest impact can be made by contributing to Risk Management the following indicators: A well-considered outlook with regard to future 3 Good health and wellbeing; developments in our business environment is crucial to the 4 Quality education; long-term success of Wolters Kluwer. We need to anticipate 5 Gender equality; opportunities and mitigate risks. Wolters Kluwer takes 8 Decent work and economic growth; financial and non-financial indicators into consideration 9 Industry, innovation, and infrastructure; and when managing its internal risk. These risks are classified 12 Responsible consumption and production. As part of a global community and society at large, we Maintaining a diverse workforce, further acknowledge our responsibility with respect to the following indicators: with a good understanding of current and future customer 1 No poverty; 6 Clean water and sanitation; needs, also contributes to 13 Climate action; and 17 Partnerships for the goals. safeguarding future value creation by the company. into the following categories: Strategic & Operational Risks, Legal & Compliance Risks, Financial Risks and Financial Reporting Risks5. 5 An extensive description of our internal Risk Management and Control systems is provided in the Risk Management section of our 2016 Annual Report. Wolters Kluwer 2016 Sustainability Report 18 Under Strategic & Operational risk, we also classify risks and opportunities emerging from global, macro-economic and demographic trends. Technological and cultural or demographic developments might impact current business models. These developments could include disruptive technologies, such as the impact of artificial intelligence on the activities of professionals. New generations of professional customers might expect a different approach and different tools and solutions to support them in their daily activities. The company actively monitors relevant trends in the markets in which it operates and general trends that might affect its business in the future. Examples include technological developments which could impact the professional market in the future, as well as changing customer demands due to IT and demographic developments. The company manages potential risks in these areas and aims at protecting itself from potential changes by focusing on innovation and through our continuing digital transformation. Maintaining a diverse workforce, with a good understanding of current and future customer needs, also contributes to safeguarding future value creation by the company. At the same time, our innovations could help people to adapt to these changing circumstances. By improving our footprint and providing access to new business opportunities, our innovation-driven sustainability strategy reduces our environmental impact. Efficient use of crucial resources, partnering with our customers for innovative solutions, optimization of community citizenship, and talent development of our employees contribute us to mitigating potential risks. Wolters Kluwer 2016 Sustainability Report 19 Customers & Solutions Our information, software, and services are designed to provide professionals with the information they need to enable them to make critical decisions. Our innovative solutions can help our customers provide better healthcare, improve the way they do business, navigate change and complexity, and build smarter legal systems – ultimately creating a better future. Our Ambition: Right Solutions for Right Decisions Our portfolio directly contributes to people, planet, and Business Strategy profit. Our sustainability efforts are closely aligned with our strong focus on financial results and value creation. Through an ongoing increase in customer satisfaction, we believe we maximize our positive impact on society. Satisfaction in three distinct channels reflects the added Expand Deliver value we create for our customers. First, we continuously Market Expert aim to deliver higher quality products and services. Coverage Solutions Efficiency is the second characteristic of a Wolters Kluwer solution, as our digital solutions help optimize our customers’ activities and enable them to focus on what really matters. Finally, our ongoing emphasis on digital Drive products and services allows us to provide solutions that Efficiencies and help reduce our customers’ use of natural resources. Engagement Our Strategy We achieve high customer satisfaction levels by putting Driven by Innovation sustainability at the heart of our product development. Wolters Kluwer invests between 8-10% of its revenues This drives improvements in the quality, time, and in product innovation every year. We integrate various resource efficiency of our solutions. Our innovation-driven elements in our business processes that spark new ideas sustainability strategy fits entirely within each aspect of the in order to drive innovation and invest in innovation labs business strategy, Growing Our Value. Greater innovation and internal contests. will allow us to expand into new markets with greater ease. It will also drive greater efficiency and engagement The Wolters Kluwer Global Platform Organization (GPO) internally, while being at the heart of creating expert group co-creates state-of-the-art digital solutions with solutions – and value – for our customers. company businesses around the world. The GPO mandate is to grow revenue of the company’s digital content through innovation in, and adoption of, global platforms and tools to meet local customer needs worldwide. Wolters Kluwer 2016 Sustainability Report 20 Wolters Kluwer operates innovation labs around the world Our company-wide contest to stimulate employees to share where programmers and designers are encouraged to solutions and ideas is known as the Global Innovation experiment with new technology. Employees generate new Awards. We believe that a company-wide commitment to ideas to help grow our stakeholder value. These employees innovation in both products and internal operations can are linked to lab professionals during experimentation increase organic revenue and profit growth while creating sessions in order to take innovation to the next level. In a sustainable competitive advantage. Driven by our 2016some cases, we provide funding for the product to go 2018 corporate strategy, this year’s Global Innovation to market. This ongoing internal drive for innovation is Award categories were: supported from idea conception until the launch phase. Greatest Value to Customers: A call-to-arms for ideas The Tax & Accounting iLab Code Games 2016, a software that create maximum value for our customers through development coding competition, included 122 teams new product innovations, enhancements, or other expert with more than 500 employees in 10 countries. The teams solutions. were given just two days to innovate a new customer solution, and then developed codes ‘on the spot’ to Business Model/Operational Innovation: An invitation to create a working prototype. The competition culminated company employees worldwide to submit ideas that could in demonstrations by the teams, assessed by a mixed re-invent the way we do business to deliver on our mission panel of jurors of Wolters Kluwer executives and local – a process, a plan, or any other strategic initiative. customers. Entries were rated on the level of innovation, technical achievement, and potential value generation. Business Improvements: Ideas that advance our The winning teams won an opportunity to further develop operational effectiveness and efficiency in line with their idea in the Wolters Kluwer Tax & Accounting iLab our strategic priority of driving employee engagement (Innovation Lab). and efficiency. Making a Lasting Impression Compared to the most valuable UpToDate®, Ovid® and Lippincott The award is presented annually to brands, Wolters Kluwer rose to # 17 Williams & Wilkins (LWW) each companies that exceeded customer in the Brand Finance Netherlands 50 received the NorthFace ScoreBoard service expectations for the previous list. In 2015, Wolters Kluwer was in the AwardSM (NFSB) from Omega calendar year. The NorthFace 22 position. The higher ranking is nd Management Group Corp. This marks ScoreBoard Award is considered a result of our good revenue growth the fifth consecutive year the teams the only objective benchmark for and brand visibility. have been recognized by Omega excellence in customer service. We are also proud that the global for excellence in customer service customer support teams for and support. Wolters Kluwer 2016 Sustainability Report 21 Sustainability: Ideas that significantly change our solutions for or processes toward social and environmental Explaining the materiality topics contributions in data access and security, social on Customers & Solutions responsibility in supply chains, or strategic sourcing. In addition, the INnovation VENTure (INVENT) Fund went into its third year of operation in 2016. The INVENT Fund is Effective and Efficient Access to our internal venture capital fund aimed at helping ideas Information throughout the company grow into fully implemented We make this information widely available to our solutions. The fund finances itself through replenishment customers in various ways. First and foremost, from the funded innovations. we provide information and solutions directly to our customers through the products we sell. We Improving Customer Experience also share important information with the wider Providing our services professionally ultimately results in community through blogs, seminars, and expert satisfied customers. One example of a new solution that meetings. We also provide free access to relevant enhances customer experience is CCH iQ, a predictive information services in disaster situations. intelligence software and information services solution designed specifically for accountants that will drive Privacy and Data Protection efficiencies and redefine how the customer’ business Customer privacy and data protection are becoming is conducted. CCH iQ is the combination of CCH iKnow increasingly important due to the digitization of our content and CCH iFirm software to drive actionable product portfolio. Stakeholders agree that these outcomes. topics demand our highest priority from a business and sustainability perspective. Our IT environment, security measures, comprehensive company policies, and employee training courses on these sensitive topics contribute to complying with privacy and data protection requirements. As a global company with a diversified portfolio, we need Wolters Kluwer’s presence in industrial and emerging to ensure that our products and services are delivered markets is increasing and represents an additional aspect effectively. The Net Promoter Score (NPS) connects the of improving customer experience. Our mobile and cloudcompany directly to the voice of the customer. It is the best based solutions are well suited to a country such as India, proxy for measuring the customer experience. NPS is the where smartphones are widely used and can help the most complete program for improving our performance country address its shortage of skilled personnel. The by driving change. Its methodology tells us how likely our Wolters Kluwer Emerging & Developing Markets Group customers would recommend Wolters Kluwer services on focuses specifically on the acceleration of our company’s a scale of 1-10. Those who respond with a score of 9 10 impact in key high-growth regions, including Brazil, India are called Promoters, and are considered likely to exhibit and China. The group works across all divisions to tailor value-creating behavior, such as buying more, remaining products to local customer needs, leverage our digital customers for a longer time, and making more positive investments, and establish a long-term presence in these referrals to other potential customers. The constant cycle fast-growing geographies. of measuring, understanding, acting, and initiating a positive change is monitored against key indicators. Using different channels to serve global customers, we implement ambitious distribution strategies. Wolters Since the implementation of NPS, the positive response Kluwer increasingly focuses on the online sales and rate has enabled us to better understand customer distribution of products thanks to information digitization. requirements and adjust our products according to their Currently, 85% of our revenues come from digital products needs. We measure the scope locally and per product to and services. optimize the feedback and engagement cycle. Wolters Kluwer 2016 Sustainability Report 22 Data Efficiency and Security those who entrust us with their personal information. These Wolters Kluwer hosts applications for the use of its clients. policies require transparency, choice where appropriate, It is our strategy to actively reduce the number of data and responsible data use and security. Controls over data processing locations and vendors or internal providers and security programs are tested regularly to ensure of these services. This will have five implications for our protection of personal data and compliance with relevant customers: legislation and regulatory requirements. 1 Enhanced efficiency; This year, Wolters Kluwer adopted a new IT Security Policy 2 Improved accuracy; and Acceptable Use Policy with significant enhancements 3 Greater agility; to data protection, classification, and safeguards. The new 4 Better data security; and 5 Reduced costs. We see a world in which all of our This strategy aims to improve customer experience. It also has positive environmental implications. These will be customers are empowered with described in the Resource Management chapter. the deep domain knowledge – and Wolters Kluwer recognizes that customers, employees, and intelligent technology – that will others care about the privacy and security of their data, and we take our responsibility for this matter seriously. Our cyber help shape a better future for all. security program is managed by the Global Chief Information Officer from Global Business Services. We have established a policies are aligned with relevant regulatory requirements company-wide governance infrastructure to drive a holistic and is intended to mitigate significant IT risks. Effective approach to the stewardship of data. This includes putting IT security is the joint responsibility of every Wolters Kluwer policies in place to ensure the continuing confidence of employee, requiring awareness and participation. ELM Solutions Provide Greater Insights into Legal Billing Practices Wolters Kluwer ELM Solutions, firms better manage and benchmark The two new offerings from ELM the global market leader in their fees and billing practices. This Solutions bring actionable insights transformational, technology-based includes the Real Rate Report® to CLDs and law firms that foster solutions for the legal industry Snapshot edition, the industry collaboration and transparent ecosystem, launched two new standard for benchmarking law firm conversations around resource solutions in 2016 that provide data rates as well as the TyMetrix 360° and allocation. and insights for corporate legal Passport® Actionable Insight Reports departments (CLDs) and law firms. solution. Both solutions help CLDs and law Wolters Kluwer 2016 Sustainability Report 23 We inform and instruct our employees during the businesses. Our expert solutions — in compliance, IT Security Awareness and Cyber Security training. collaboration, internal and external audit management, and company management — integrate deep local Our Divisions knowledge with workflows to ensure compliance, effective Our four divisions operate in industries that continuously management, and strengthened client relationships. demand concise, correct information and high-quality Customers include accounting firms, corporate finance, products. We strive to create and further develop a broad tax and auditing departments, government agencies, product range that provides sustainable solutions to the corporations, libraries, and universities. varying needs of our customers. Governance, Risk & Compliance Health Wolters Kluwer helps legal and financial professionals Wolters Kluwer helps healthcare providers build manage complex compliance requirements, helping in competency, and improve their practice to make reducing risk, increasing efficiency, and produce better confident decisions on patient care, and deliver better business outcomes. Our expert solutions range from legal outcomes. Wolters Kluwer Health solutions help facilitate compliance and enterprise-wide legal management to evidence-based decision-making in clinical, nursing, and addressing regulatory and industry requirements through pharmaceutical settings, at the same time supporting workflow, analytics, and reporting solutions and services continuing education and leading medical research. in financial markets. Customers include corporations and Customers include healthcare professionals, medical small business owners across industries as well as banks, librarians, and corporate researchers. securities, and insurance firms. Tax & Accounting Legal & Regulatory Wolters Kluwer enables professionals in tax and accounting Wolters Kluwer helps legal and compliance professionals firms, businesses, and governing authorities to grow, drive productivity and performance, achieve confident manage, and protect their business and their clients’ outcomes, and mitigate risk. Partners with American Nurses Wolters Kluwer released a mobile professionals gain rapid access to U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs version of the post-traumatic stress trusted PTSD information to support (VA), approximately 8 million adults disorder (PTSD) toolkit from the and inform care decisions. suffer from PTSD. It is a particularly American Nurses Foundation (ANF) PTSD is a serious mental disorder significant mental health topic and the University of Pennsylvania resulting from exposure to direct among veterans. School of Nursing (Penn Nursing). or indirect threat of death, serious Developed by Lippincott Solutions, injury or physical violence, including the free mobile app is designed to sexual violence. According to the help nurses and other healthcare National Center for PTSD, part of the Wolters Kluwer 2016 Sustainability Report 24 Product Impact Portfolio Enhancing health 5 Enhancing efficiency 1 Promoting prevention 6 Promoting data security 2 Granting access to information 7 Improving accuracy 3 Enabling education 8 Mitigating risks 4 Enabling compliance 9 Economic Social Portfolio UpToDate Anywhere 1, 3, 4, 5, 7, 11 Enabling energy efficiency 10 Emmi Solutions 1, 4, 5, 6, 7 Reducing paper 11 CCH iQ 1, 3, 4, 8, 9 CCH Axcess 1, 3, 8, 9, 11 Enabling recource efficiency 12 TeamMate 1, 4, 8, 9 Environmental CT Lien Solutions 1, 4, 7, 9, 10 OneSumX 1, 3, 4, 8, 9 Cheetah 1, 3, 8, 9 Enablon 1, 4, 8, 10, 11, 12 We provide vital information, analytics, software, and Health integrated workflow solutions that help customers UpToDate Anywhere streamline complex legal and regulatory compliance UpToDate is a trusted resource that improves outcomes for requirements, make the right decisions, and realize higher healthcare organizations. Access to this powerful evidenceproductivity. Customers include law firms, corporate based content is now available to clinicians at the office, at legal departments, corporations, universities, and home, or at patients' bedsides. government agencies. Emmi Solutions Products with Impact Emmi combines an intimate understanding of people In 2015 Wolters Kluwer introduced the Product Impact and expertise in behavioral and educational science to Portfolio as a framework for inspiring sustainable successfully engage people to become owners of their innovation. This portfolio helps us to identify the health and well being. sustainable impact that our expert solutions have on our customers. Arranged around economic, social, and Tax & Accounting environmental impacts, the impact factors show per CCH iQ product how Wolters Kluwer contributes to a better CCH iQ is a predictive intelligence software and information society. This year, we have made three adaptations to services solution for accountants and provides an the framework: “Improving accuracy” and “Reducing paper unrivaled end-to-end solution. The technology is purposeconsumption” were added and “Enabling compliance” built to be time efficient and cost effective. was moved to the social dimension of our impact. The 2016 acquisition of Enablon, a leading EHSS and Risk CCH Axcess Management software provider, is fully in line with our CCH Axcess provides the foundation for accountancy firms innovation-driven sustainability strategy and allows us to offer a full level service, communicating, supporting to expand our Product Impact Portfolio. a collaborative working relationship and accelerating delivery of work and offering valuable add-on services. Wolters Kluwer 2016 Sustainability Report 25 TeamMate Legal & Regulatory TeamMate is the global market leader in internal audit Cheetah management solution, used by corporations and Cheetah™ for Tax Law is a new, online legal tax experience governments that brings significant efficiency to the audit combining the resources of CCH, Aspen Publishers, and process by automating and standardizing workflow. Kluwer Law International product lines. Governance, Risk & Compliance Enablon CT Lien Solutions Enablon is a provider of a Sustainability and Risk CT Lien Solutions is the U.S. market leader in lien services, Management software. Users rely on Enablon solutions serving banks and other lending institutions. It helps to manage their environmental and social performance, lenders to reduce operational and credit risk, and to minimize risks, and improve profitability. enhance profitability. OneSumX OneSumX provides an ecosystem of complementary and comprehensive solutions and services to manage the intersection of governance, finance, risk and compliance. Financial Services Launches Enterprise Credit Solution for China Wolters Kluwer Financial Services The Enterprise Credit Solution gathers constructs the submission files in the launched its Enterprise Credit a bank’s commercial and corporate format required for PBOC submission. Solution for China in 2016. The banking data directly from its core Through this reporting process, banks solution enables financial institutions banking and business systems, obtain a three-dimensional view of operating in China to comply with the performs regulatory computations their financial conditions, which helps official China Enterprise Credit System and creates on-screen forms improve their credit risk management. (ECS) reporting standards, as set by containing its regulatory data. Once the People’s Bank of China (PBOC). the data is confirmed, the solution Wolters Kluwer 2016 Sustainability Report 26 Employee Engagement As an equal opportunity employer, we focus on talent development and growth, sparking innovation that leads to sustainable results for our customers and the company. Our customers trust us to provide them with exceptional customer service and high-quality solutions. We know this makes our employees our most valuable asset. Wolters Kluwer empowers employees to make decisions that lead to the best results. We also help our employees to improve their skills and develop their careers by providing them with a working environment that makes us all proud. Our Ambition: Stronger Together – One Wolters Kluwer It is our ambition to develop an inclusive company culture philosophy, centered on the belief that we are stronger in which attracting, developing, and retaining excellent and together, is known as One Wolters Kluwer. diverse talent is central to everything we do. Our global success is based on the efforts of our diverse workforce, consisting of approximately 19,000 employees who operate Our Strategy in over 40 countries, serving customers around the world. Wolters Kluwer aspires to further improve the working Our employees are our most valuable asset. We environment of its employees by motivating them to acknowledge that sustainable company performance can share plans and ideas with one another. This corporate only be delivered by the best workforce. It is therefore Explaining the materiality issues on Employee Engagement Talent Development Health and Safety Wolters Kluwer talent programs are designed to attract, The transition from a publishing company into one develop, and retain outstanding individuals with the providing essential digital products and services has right skills for the right jobs. We listen to employee been marked by a decline in production facilities. feedback through engagement surveys, conduct The risk of health and safety hazards has decreased annual talent reviews, support a global performance accordingly. Our local facilities put initiatives in place management process, and provide training programs to safeguard the health and safety of our workforce. to develop employees’ skills and careers. We track our performance against the growing number of health and safety standards so we can continue to Diversity and Equal Opportunity improve our employees’ working environment. This Equal opportunity is conditional to realizing diversity. year, work-related incidents resulted in 1328 days Wolters Kluwer promotes innovation through its diverse of absenteeism. workforce. Our employees reflect the diversity of our customers and the communities in which we live and work. Wolters Kluwer 2016 Sustainability Report 27 essential to recruit and retain the right talent for the right ideas on how to make Wolters Kluwer an even better place jobs. Key to our success is our employee engagement to work. 2016 marks the third year of measuring employee strategy, as it leads to better products and services for our engagement, and the second enterprise-wide survey since customers and communities. 2014. We are pleased to report that 82% of our employees took the 2016 survey and are especially proud that At Wolters Kluwer, we believe that we are stronger together. employee engagement rose significantly in 2016. We have We cooperate and share knowledge across the company. listened to our employees and acted. We will be updating We do this in rewarding work environments where we both our enterprise-wide and division-specific plans based inspire and support each other to achieve success. We on the 2016 survey. believe in the performance of diverse teams that are organized in an open and inclusive manner. We treat each Pride in Building One Wolters Kluwer other with respect and are focused on three key areas to We have completed the rollout of our refreshed company further improve our employee engagement: values and, through our 2016 employee engagement survey, we learned that we are living our values and have made ―― Pride in Building One Wolters Kluwer – Connecting One Wolters Kluwer even stronger. Our high employee employees with a shared understanding of our mission, engagement also provides a competitive advantage as we strategy, goals, and values. evolve as a solutions company and adapt to continuously ―― Improving Agility – Making it easier to focus on what changing dynamics in the marketplace. matters most by improving basic tools and resources to get work done. Improving Agility ―― Developing Skills and Careers – Supporting employees Wolters Kluwer’s Global Business Services (GBS) and managers to develop skills, knowledge, and careers. group is responsible for improving the quality and performance of our technology infrastructure, managing We implemented the Our Enterprise Global Employee key vendor relationships, increasing the efficiency of Survey to measure employee engagement and listen to support functions, and driving operational excellence Legal & Regulatory Talent Summit Takes Off! Emerging leaders from across organizational environment, while challenges, meeting customer Wolters Kluwer Legal & Regulatory meeting with external experts, senior needs, and more. The session also (LR) participated in the 2016 leaders, and peers. The 2016 meeting included “design thinking” projects Talent Summit in Amsterdam an brought together 27 employees from for the attendees, where the teams innovative learning and development 12 countries and many different were charged with coming up opportunity for employees in the functional areas. With a focus on with innovative ways to solve real division. Participants went through digital, the team spent the week business cases. dynamic training sessions focused on together learning about changing different aspects of the business and market forces, opportunities, Wolters Kluwer 2016 Sustainability Report 28 programs globally. GBS supports Wolters Kluwer’s digital blog within the information industry that focuses on transformation and product innovation by strengthening new developments and technology-related topics. the company’s technology infrastructure and by delivering Specialists from Wolters Kluwer or its partners are the operational efficiencies. This enables us to unlock value main contributors to the Intelligent Solutions blog. Twice by providing access to tools and resources that help our a week at least, regular posts are scheduled by members employees connect, cooperate, and communicate better of the blogger team. Their range of expertise covers many with colleagues around the world. It also enables our professional fields, and they explore trends, content, businesses to adapt more quickly to changing market technology, and new ideas in the global information demands, gain access to information faster, and further industry by analyzing the latest and most interesting streamline their work thanks to the introduction of new developments. tools within the company. These solutions include our updated website, our intranet, various social media outlets Developing Skills and Careers like Yammer, Rainer cloud software, and our new Microsoft At Wolters Kluwer, we support our diverse group of talent Office 365 e-mail and conference platform that has been as they take their skills, knowledge and careers to the next rolled out globally. Just as importantly, initiatives at GBS level. We provide resources for our employees in every unite our company around common standards and best aspect of their career, from recruitment and onboarding to practices, reduce costs by not duplicating efforts, and benefits, compensation, performance management, and deliver economies of scale by concentrating volume. The career development. GBS programs are instrumental in bringing the company closer to becoming One Wolters Kluwer. We encourage our employees to discuss their development needs in their current position and career aspirations with Wolters Kluwer also facilitates the Intelligent Solutions their managers. While the development plan is owned blog. The blog enhances internal cooperation by by the employee, the manager plays an important role informing colleagues about the available Wolters Kluwer in overseeing its creation and providing resources to communication tools. It is a publicly-accessible editorial execute it. Working Together Towards One Single Content Management System In January 2016, Clinical Drug the data migration was complete, and Information (CDI) migrated 100% that it was possible to work seamlessly of its data into one single content in the single system, from the creation management system. The challenge of a blank document to the publication started in 2011 and took five years to on the site and in the book. fulfill. Working alongside two fellow The team not only had to learn a team members and one developer, the whole new system but also needed CDI team was continuously discussing to communicate across offices, with and cleaning data needed to ensure remote employees and contractors. Wolters Kluwer 2016 Sustainability Report 29 Performance management and Learning framework PERFORMANCE DEVELOPMENT Setting goals that drive daily Identifying opportunities for activities and overall current role and career business results aspirations Ensuring frequent Evaluating annual manager/employee progress related to engagement performance goals Discussing progress Laying groundwork for against performance and continued performance development goals and and development adjusting as needed Development can take the form of on-the-job experiences Performance management is critical for our organization and projects, coaching and mentoring relationships, and as we continuously strive for a culture of high performance formal training programs. We actively communicate open and accountability that attracts, develops, and retains positions so that employees can apply through the internal the right talent to deliver our business strategy. In direct career development page. response to the feedback from Our Enterprise: Wolters Kluwer Global Employee Survey, we developed a new global This year, Wolters Kluwer launched career development performance management and learning framework. training for people managers and their employees. Over 95% of our managers completed the training to help them This framework allows us to: conduct meaningful career development discussions with their employees and provide development planning. 1 Enable a transparent performance management process Almost 5,000 employees completed the complementary and promote more frequent conversations for feedback, training (offered in 14 languages) to help own and guide coaching, and development between employee and their own development. We also offer our managers manager. access to online training from the Harvard Manage Mentor, 2 Improve development planning and provide significantly providing 24 modules to gain competence in managing and more company-wide learning opportunities. leading people. 3 Create consistency in setting goals and assessing outcomes across Wolters Kluwer. Skill Skills Capability Capability Skill Assessment and Assessments assessments Development Development Capability Development 2016 2015 2016 2015 2014 2013 Employees 91% 91% 56% 52% 77% 66% Managers 89% 97% 83% 52% 78% 80% Executives 96% 85% 64% 70% 78% 79% Our 2015 data has been updated to include a broader scope of locations. The 2016 data, shows our focus was mainly for the capability development in the managerial level. With the launch of our global tool we expect all levels to be more consistent in both areas. Wolters Kluwer 2016 Sustainability Report 30 In 2016, we introduced the new global framework, calendar, Each Division also offers development programs for and tool via awareness webinars attended by over 5,000 its employees. employees. Starting in January 2017, all employees are setting goals using our new global platform, My Enterprise Well-being Performance Management. Employees can access learning In the United States, Wolters Kluwer offers Be Well, an resources to support their development through My incentive-based well-being program designed to encourage Enterprise Learning, supplemented by over 2,000 offerings employees and eligible spouses to make positive overall in multiple languages. Wolters Kluwer focuses on building health choices by offering programs that inspire them to be skills and careers through multiple programs: more physically active, handling stress effectively, making healthy food choices, and having an overall awareness of ―― Each division holds an annual talent review process to their health status. Employee well-being positively impacts better understand the skills, capabilities and career health, engagement, and business results. Employees who aspirations of our talent. This prepares our employees take their personal health situation seriously are twice as not only for today’s work, but also for tomorrow’s likely to be engaged in their jobs compared to employees strategy. with moderate well-being, and six times as likely to be ―― Excellent leadership programs, such as the Leadership engaged compared to those who are at risk of unhealthy Summit and Leadership Essentials, focus on habits. They also experience 46% fewer unhealthy days strengthening our leadership pipeline to be ready for because of physical or mental illness and are 32% more growth and expansion. likely to stay with the company7. ―― The Global Innovation Award is our internal contest 6 to inspire staff to come forward with their ideas and solutions. 6 More information on the Global Innovation Award can be found in the Customers & Solutions chapter. 7 Source: Gallup, “State of The American Workplace Employee Engagement Insights for US Business Leaders”, 2013 Health Improvement Program Wolters Kluwer’s Be Well program miles from Chicago to Santa Monica includes a health improvement on the U.S. west coast and encourage component. This program is designed users to perform daily exercises to get fit, reduce stress, and increase to win one million virtual dollars. energy levels. Two examples are Additional programs include gym the ‘Get Fit on Route 66’ and ‘Feel reimbursements, Weight Watchers, Like a Million’ online programs that Tobacco Cessation and the Life respectively simulate all the 2,448 Resources Program. Wolters Kluwer 2016 Sustainability Report 31 Since well-being encompasses the whole person, the standards in HR Management. In its announcement, the Be Well program focuses on four pillars of well-being: Institute said: mental, physical, financial, and emotional. Each year, Wolters Kluwer hosts on-site health screenings and flu “Our comprehensive independent research revealed shot clinics as well as voucher programs for smaller that Wolters Kluwer Nederland B.V. provides exceptional locations and remote employees as well as health employee conditions, nurtures and develops talent improvement challenges to help maintain engagement. throughout all levels of the organization and has Community involvement and giving back are also important demonstrated its leadership status in the HR environment, components of Be Well. always striving to optimize its employment practices and to develop its employees.” Diversity We believe that a diverse inclusive workforce generates It is the aim of the company that at least 30% of the better results. Part of creating an inclusive workforce is our members of the Executive and Supervisory Board active policy in The Netherlands of recruiting employees are female. Wolters Kluwer achieves this goal for the with an occupational disability. Wolters Kluwer is also Executive Board, with 50% female representation. After willing to incur additional costs for designing or adapting the envisaged changes at the Annual General Meeting of the workplace of an employee with an occupational Shareholders, Wolters Kluwer will also achieve this aim for disability. its Supervisory Board. Our dedication to employees does not go unnoticed. As our CEO, Nancy McKinstry, puts it: “The strong The Top Employers Institute certified Wolters Kluwer participation of women in the digital transformation Netherlands as a top employer for the second year in of information is a factor that has increased the succession. The Top Employers Institute’s annual survey opportunities for women to attain senior positions. recognizes leading employers worldwide; this certification This reflects the gender balance that also persists is only awarded to organizations pursuing the highest throughout our total workforce. Women in Leadership: Expanding Influence and Leading Change CEO Nancy McKinstry was a guest its work on advancing women’s talents, and assume roles of greater speaker in a new 2016 program leadership. The program “Women influence. Nancy McKinstry shared developed by Columbia Business in Leadership: Expanding Influence her experiences in improving gender School, one of the world’s foremost and Leading Change (November equality within Wolters Kluwer, and providers of advanced management 9-11, 2016)” was designed to help offered insights into what it takes to training, and Barnard College’s women leaders navigate the business create and execute a strategic vision Athena Center, known globally for landscape, develop and leverage their for change. Wolters Kluwer 2016 Sustainability Report 32 Female Divisional CEOs Gender Diversity of Total Employees 2016 2015 2014 2013 Female Executive Board 50% 50% 50% 50% Female Divisional CEOs 67% 67% 50% 50% 67% Female Senior Management 24% 25% 24% 27% Female Employees & Managers 49% 50% 51% 54% Gender diversity is consistent year over year, and in-line with our ambitions of maintaining a diverse workforce. Geographic spread of employees Percentage of turnover per average FTE Full-time equivalent (FTE) 331 5.4 Involuntary 5.7 2,131 6.1 5.2 8.8 Voluntary 18,055 18,318 7,064 8.5 9.2 8,792 6.9 0.2 Natural 0.4 0.2 0.4 Europe 0 2 4 6 8 10% North America Asia Pacific 2016 The 0.3 percent point decrease of total turnover is Rest of the World a result of our continuous focus on, and investment in, 2015 the development of our workforce. 2% increase of 2014 voluntary turnover is mainly driven by reorganisations 2013 in Europe. Total Employees By Division in FTEs ultimo 2016 2015 2014 2013 Health 3,064 2,964 2,807 2,779 Tax & Accounting 6,276 6,164 5,867 6,032 Governance, Risk & Compliance 4,363 4,413 4,215 3,650 Legal & Regulatory 4,511 4,411 5,548 5,762 Corporate 104 103 112 106 Total 18,318 18,055 18,549 18,329 Wolters Kluwer 2016 Sustainability Report 33 Resource Management Wolters Kluwer continuously reaffirms its commitment to social and environmental responsibility as they relate to both its suppliers and its own operations. It is important to adapt business practices to manage the sustainable use of limited natural and social resources. The environment is impacted by our own operations and those of our customers and suppliers. By focusing on the resources that can reduce our footprint most effectively, our objective is simple: to reduce our environmental impact. Moreover, our Supplier Code of Conduct helps us to manage the social and environmental impact of our suppliers. Our Ambition: Larger Impact with Fewer Resources Wolters Kluwer continuously explores ways to reduce its chain. We review our procurement process critically and environmental footprint and closely monitors the use of are striving to achieve an environmentally and socially natural resources in its operations. We work together with sustainable supply chain. our suppliers to reduce their use of natural resources because we understand our responsibility in the supply Our Offices Wolters Kluwer has offices in over 40 countries worldwide Wolters Kluwer 2016 Sustainability Report 34 We also aim to increase the efficiency of our customers and ―― Minimize business travel by promoting alternatives reduce their use of natural resources8 through our Product such as teleconferencing, videoconferencing, and Impact Portfolio. presentations via Internet. Operations at Wolters Kluwer Our target, as set in 2014, is that by the end of 2017 90% of Wolters Kluwer aims to reduce the use of natural resources our printed media and office paper will be certified FSC, in its business operations. Three focal points where the PEFC, SFI, EU Ecolabel, Nordic Swan or Blauer Engel. largest impact can be made have been selected: offices, business travel, and data centers. Suppliers At Wolters Kluwer, we believe our responsibility goes Our resource-related sustainability ambitions are to: beyond the social and environmental impact of our own activities. We look critically at the impact of the activities ―― Integrate environmental considerations into business of our business partners. We do not endorse activities that plans and management practices; are not in compliance with selected standards of social and ―― Increase our certified office and printing paper: environmental conduct. We have set tangible targets for Certification is one of our procurement criteria – We this year and the near future and our suppliers help us in therefore check whether paper is certified in accordance achieving these targets. with the standards of FSC, PEFC, SFI, EU Ecolabel, Nordic Swan or Blauer Engel; ―― Improve processes to reduce consumption of energy and water, and to improve waste treatment and recycling; and 8 For more information please review the Customers & Solutions chapter, and the company profile on revenue by media. Environmental Heroes By changing policies, adapting cut by 45%. In most German offices, In the US, a new travel policy has efficient standards and technologies, renewable energy use has increased been introduced, explicitly focused on embracing adjusted procurement from 25% to 35%. Offices in Canada, the environmental footprint caused criteria, or by simply changing China, Belgium, and Sweden use by travel. A 15% reduction of paper their own behavior, Wolters Kluwer electricity from 100% renewable usage in the US saved approximately employees contribute to minimizing sources. Alternative transportation 40,000 trees in 2016. Wolters Kluwer the environmental footprint of the such as high-speed trains has endorses these efforts and will company. In Spain, our offices are prompted employees to change their continue its effort to minimize its ISO 14001 certified and in our Madrid mode of travel, cutting domestic and environmental impact. office, water consumption has been short-haul travel by more than 50%. Wolters Kluwer 2016 Sustainability Report 35 Explaining the materiality topics on Resource Management Socially Responsible Supply Chain Energy and Emissions Operations Wolters Kluwer strives to ensure that the supply chains Emissions such as carbon dioxide (CO2) result from for our products adhere to selected standards of the use of energy from non-renewable resources. An social and ethical conduct. Our procurement practices important sustainability objective is to reduce these offer an opportunity to exercise our influence in these emissions. With the transition from a paper-based chains. All the new or renewed engagements with publishing portfolio towards a digital information material suppliers managed by our Global Procurement product and services company, we reduce the impact department include the Supplier Code of Conduct or an of greenhouse gas emissions during the production equivalent standard. process. Nevertheless, we continually strive to reduce both our energy consumption and greenhouse gas Paper Use & Responsible Paper Use emissions. Wolters Kluwer strives to minimize not only its impact on environmental ecosystems but also its use of Waste Management natural resources. Our publishing business, in recent We pursue our policy of exploring each and every history, used large amounts of paper, and this impacts opportunity to reduce waste, boost recycling, and our environment considerably. As our business, has address other waste treatment measures. Paper waste is turned increasingly digital, we have decreased paper our most substantial waste stream. We rigorously assess use significantly. Digitalization, according to available and report our progress on the reduction of paper research, may decrease energy usage when comparing waste. Furthermore, we recycle large parts of our waste consumption required for production and transport production. of paper-based products to energy consumption for producing and accessing digital products. For our Water Use printed products, we make increasing use of certified The environmental impact of our water use is very paper to reduce negative impact. limited. As water is an important natural resource, we monitor our usage as part of the environmental performance of our business units. We set the following targets in 2014: both the company and its suppliers. For 2017, we set the following target: ―― As of 2015, 100% of new or renewed engagements with material supplier9 managed by our Global Procurement ―― As of 2017, 100% of our 100 largest suppliers10 centrally department include the Wolters Kluwer Supplier Code of managed by our Global Procurement department have Conduct (or similar standard) each year. signed the Wolters Kluwer Supplier Code of Conduct or ―― By the end of 2017, we will require our material suppliers have provided an equivalent standard. from high-risk countries centrally managed by our Global Procurement department to be certified or audited by a credible sustainability standard. Our Strategy The Wolters Kluwer Supplier Code of Conduct is a means Our effort to minimize our environmental impact is in for Wolters Kluwer to work jointly with its suppliers on line with the agreement reached in Paris at the COP21 the improvement of the sustainability performance of in December 2016 and contributes to improving several Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs)11. 9 We define material suppliers as suppliers subcontracted by Wolters Kluwer to deliver products and services that are integral to the products and services Wolters Kluwer delivers to its customers. We put the quantitative threshold at €3 million of addressable spend. 10 Based on total addressable spend. 11 See more information on te SDGs in the chapter ‘Good Governance'. Wolters Kluwer 2016 Sustainability Report 36 Wolters Kluwer takes an active stand against climate of consolidating the data centers, contributes to reducing change by reducing resources used in its operations and its energy consumption and the digital nature of our products supply chain. reduces our customers’ waste production. The concept of circular economy is therefore an integral part of our Wolters Kluwer acknowledges its impact on society business strategy. throughout the supply chain. In addition to our own policies, we work closely with our suppliers to embed Firmly embedded in our Company Values and Business sustainable policies in their operations. Global Principles is our support of and respect for responsible Business Services (GBS) plays an important role in the business behavior. We strive to ensure that our activities implementation of Wolters Kluwer’s strategy, and in do not violate these principles. The Wolters Kluwer enhancing our organization’s agility, driving operational Environmental Policy can best be an articulation and excellence to fund growth, and enhancing the technology expansion of this statement. solutions Wolters Kluwer brings to market with minimal use of natural resources. Our strategy is focused on those areas where material impact can be achieved: Reducing Environmental Footprint Wolters Kluwer intends to improve its environmental ―― Energy and emissions reduction; footprint by reducing natural resource use from our ―― Paper use and responsible paper; and operations, in our supply chain and for our clients. We ―― Reduction of other natural resources. focus on our circular economy strategy to reuse and recycle our resources. Digital information products and services Offices and Warehouses account for 85% of our revenue and print accounts for 15% Reducing the environmental footprint of our offices and respectively. Our digital business is a circular business, as warehouses is another key focal point. Opportunities in the multiplication of digital product use does not lead to this respect include a shift to more efficient use of space. extra or more use of resources. Furthermore, our strategy With different office arrangements and the possibility Our New Colisée Building Wolters Kluwer France moved 500 An important outcome of the move is for Libraries Without Borders’ Ideas employees from Rueil-Malmaison to that less energy is needed due to the Box as part of its program called The Paris (the Colisée building). Before reduction of office space. urgency of reading . The Idea Box was the relocation, employees were asked Paper collected during the cleanout conceived with the High Commissioner to discard most paper records and was recycled and the money received for Refugees and the designer P. Stark, documentation to gain space and by Wolters Kluwer from the paper the Idea Box is a media kit, designed work more digitally. With the new recycling business was offered to to provide displaced people with efficient organization of the Colisée the main charity we are supporting: access to information, culture, and building, Wolters Kluwer France was Libraries Without Borders. This gesture education. able to relocate into smaller premises. for the environment was worth €2,700 Wolters Kluwer 2016 Sustainability Report 37 of home-office work, less space is needed. In the US, Data Centers an intensive program has been started to determine the Our current strategy is to actively reduce the number footprint of the Wolters Kluwer warehouses. Based on of data processing locations as well as vendors or the footprint analysis, improvement options will be put internal providers of these services. This will have three forward in order to improve their resource efficiency and implications related to our environmental footprint: ultimately also to result in financial savings. 1 The total energy consumption of our offices will be We further improved the measurement of the total energy further reduced​. usage in our offices and warehouses in 2016. This includes 2 It will help reduce energy consumption due to a flexible electricity and natural gas consumption. We also increased usage model of the data centers. the use of certified sustainable paper and were able to 3 It will increase the energy effectiveness of our further reduce our paper use. Lastly, our data collection is products and services due to the use of more efficient improving on the topics of waste and water use. data centers. We monitor the PUE ratio (Power Usage Effectives metric) of our suppliers to ensure Wolters Kluwer searches for renewable energy alternatives minimization of the amount of energy used for our as a supplement to using less energy through efficiency products and services. gains. We monitor the development of renewable energy technologies with interest. This has already taken effect in As an information, software, and services provider, we Germany, as the percentage of renewable energy in most closely monitor the impact of energy use on our solutions. offices has increased by procuring electricity produced Data center efficiency is of increasing strategic importance. from renewable sources. The progression of these Consolidating and harmonizing the number of data centers renewable energy technologies offers new solutions for our in Europe and Australia is a key enabler to leveraging our offices and warehouses. In the years ahead, we will focus digital products. Through this transition we have reduced on this initiative in order to achieve our aim of reducing the the usage of electricity at the piloting locations based on environmental footprint of our facilities. outsourcing data centers. Energy Consumption 2016 2015 2014 2013 Total Energy Use in GWh 92 109 112 118 Electricity from Renewable Sources 34% 15% 14% 12% Total CO2 Emissions from Energy in Metric Tons 31,527 37,705 36,313 38,655 Tons of CO2 Emissions from Energy per FTE 1.7 2.0 1.9 2.0 Energy use is based on electricity, natural gas, heating oil, and district heating. Based on the effort of outsourcing our data centers, electricity consumption has decreased in Europe and in Australia. The consolidation of offices in the Netherlands, France and the United States has reduced total energy consumption by reducing office space. The percentage of renewable energy shows actual reported data that is not extrapolated for non-reporting offices. The use of new conversion factors has adjusted the total GHG emissions in 2015. Electricity from Renewable Sources Tons of CO2 Emissions (Energy per FTE) 2016 1.7 34% 2015 2.0 2014 1.9 2013 2.0 0 0.5 1.0 1.5 2.0 Wolters Kluwer 2016 Sustainability Report 38 Business Travel 2016 2015 2014 2013 Total Millions of Kilometers (km) Traveled by Plane 107 114 121 98 Flight Use (km/FTE) 5,644 5,934 6,220 5,024 CO2 Emissions from Business Air Travel in Metric Tons 10,638 11,709 12,205 10,850 CO2 Emissions from Business Air Travel per FTE in Metric Tons 0.56 0.61 0.63 0.56 Total Thousands of Liters Consumed by Car Travel 2,779 2,895 2,727 2,060 Car Use (Liters/FTE) 147 150 141 106 CO2 Emissions from Business Car Travel in Metric Tons 8,549 8,913 8,355 6,337 CO2 Emissions from Business Car Travel per FTE in Metric Tons 0.45 0.46 0.43 0.33 Based on new travel policies distributed per local entity, reduced business-class travel has contributed to the reduction of total CO 2 emissions. In 2016 the scope of the data has been increased, including additional entities in Germany. Accordingly, data for 2015 and 2014 has been updated. CO2 Emissions from Business Air Travel (FTE in Metric Tons) Car Use (Liters/FTE) 2016 0.56 2016 147 2015 0.61 2015 150 2014 0.63 2014 141 2013 0.56 2013 106 0 0.2 0.4 0.6 0.8 1.0 0 30 60 90 120 150 Compared to the baseline at the end of 2013, Wolters For example, in Australia, the number of short-haul Kluwer has successfully consolidated 14 data centers. We flights has been reduced by 70%, and it is company policy intend to migrate the majority of our volume to the public/ not to authorize short-haul business class travel. Using enterprise cloud for our strategic applications before the alternative means of travel and communication has helped end of 2017. contain the total amount of greenhouse gas (GHG) emitted by Wolters Kluwer. Furthermore, Wolters Kluwer began the Travel migration of its audio and web conferencing tools, thereby Wolters Kluwer continuously reaffirms its commitment enhancing the sound quality and making conference calls to environmental responsibility. We use our Global an efficient meeting alternative. Travel Policy to guide our travel decision-making . The 12 updated policy refers to the environmental benefits of reducing travel by different modes. We focus on the resources that can reduce our footprint most effectively. Avoiding, whenever possible, business travel by air or land and utilizing alternatives such as teleconferencing and videoconferencing contributes to minimizing the environmental footprint of our employees and of the company as a whole. 12 In 2016, the new Travel Policy was rolled out in the US. Other regions of the world will follow. Wolters Kluwer 2016 Sustainability Report 39 Waste 2016 2015 2014 Total Waste Production in Tons 3,598 3,339 4,580 Total Waste Recycled 2,047 2,059 2,235 % Recycled Waste 57% 62% 49% Waste Production Tons per FTE 0.19 0.17 0.24 Waste increased in 2016 due to the closure of offices in the Netherlands, France and the US. The cleanout of these offices had a significant impact on our waste data. Our case provide more background. Water Consumption 2016 2015 2014 2013 Total Water Use in Cubic Meters 157,435 175,613 171,492 151,875 Water Use in Liters per FTE 8.3 9.1 8.8 7.8 Water consumption decreased in 2016 due to the use of more efficient water systems. Paper Use Certified Responsible Paper Use Metric Tons Metric Tons 30,000 16,000 26,128 13,750 23,539 53% 12,330 12,373 12,195 5,489 22,500 42% 12,000 5,799 6,882 3,579 18,821 16,570 34% 15,000 34% 8,000 5,428 6,564 58% 74% 66% 47% 2,014 3,042 7,500 4,000 2,503 3,188 2,449 2,014 1,697 0 0 2016 2015 2014 2013 2016 2015 2014 2013 Use Ordinary Paper SFI Other PEFC FSC Use Responsible Paper Total usage of paper decreased further in 2016 in line with the global strategy to reduce the sale of printed products. Simultaneously, the percentage of responsible paper increased by 11%. 'Other' is made up of other in the EU recognized labels. Improving Social and Environmental Compliance updates pertain to the inclusion and strengthening of ‘Increasingly important’ is the way that ESG analysts the topics of competition, IP, confidentiality, data privacy, describe active participation in the supply chain. Wolters conflicts of interest, implementation of management Kluwer acknowledges this perception and has established systems, and the opportunity to perform an audit with its own Supplier Code of Conductw13. These social and suppliers on compliance with the Supplier Code of environmental engagement rules serve as a first step to Conduct. The Code further describes the social topics of enhance supply chain participation. health and safety, non-discrimination, wages and benefits, freedom of association, child labor, forced labor, labor The Wolters Kluwer Supplier Code of Conduct was updated conditions and protection against abuse of labor bribery, in 2016. In addition to the new name of the policy, the and environment responsibility. 13 Formerly known as Standards of Engagement. Wolters Kluwer 2016 Sustainability Report 40 Wolters Kluwer expects its suppliers to adhere to the In this questionnaire we ask new or existing suppliers standards described in our Supplier Code of Conduct, as upon contract renewal to read and sign the Supplier Code well as with local laws and regulations, the articles of the of Conduct. Wolters Kluwer requests suppliers to provide United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the proof of environmental, social, and information security core standards of the International Labor Organization, certifications. Our risk assessment includes information on and the principles of the United Nations Global Compact. our suppliers’ operations in high-risk countries. As of 2017, Furthermore, Wolters Kluwer requires its material suppliers the questionnaires will be distributed to the 100 largest to confirm adherence hereto by signing the Supplier Code suppliers. of Conduct or provide a similar equivalent to which they are committed. The following criteria determine the review of suppliers: Wolters Kluwer recognizes the importance of managing ―― The importance of a supplier to Wolters Kluwer. third-party relationships and risks associated with these ―― The importance of Wolters Kluwer to the supplier. relationships. The six main elements of the Supplier ―― The capacity of a supplier to work on social and Management Program include: environmental topics. ―― The capacity of Wolters Kluwer to engage with a supplier 1 Governance & Oversight on these topics. 2 Requirements Definition and Risk Assessment 3 Third Party Selection and Due Diligence At Wolters Kluwer we expect material suppliers from 4 Contract Negotiation high-risk countries (see our Supplier Code of Conduct) 5 Ongoing Monitoring and Reporting to be in possession of at least one of the listed social 6 Termination and environmental certifications. In 2016, we added the information security certification ISO 27001 as one of the While these elements apply to supplier activities, the certifications, which is in line with our material topics. precise use of this process depends on the nature of the third-party relationship, the scope and magnitude of the Social certifications: products or services to be provided by the third party, OHSAS 18001, ICTI, Smeta (Sedex), and the risks associated with the particular supplier UL (PGAA), SA8000, BSCI, ETI, ICS relationship. The Supplier Management Program includes initial due diligence and ongoing oversight of thirdEnvironmental certifications: party relationships. The information gathered from this ISO 14001, FSC, PEFC, SFI, China process helps ensure the supplier is able to provide Environmental Label, QC 080000 products or services consistent with our expectations and requirements and with those of our clients. Information security certification: ISO 27001 Wolters Kluwer uses a supplier controlling system to ensure compliance with our Code of Conduct. After identifying the suppliers in scope, questionnaires are distributed to them. The questionnaire enables suppliers to inform Wolters Kluwer about their existing compliance systems that ensure environmental, social, and governance management. Target 2016 2015 100% of material suppliers centrally managed by our Global Procurement department with a new or renewed engagement, including the Code of Conduct (previously: Standards of Engagement) or an equivalent standard. 100% 100% 100% of material suppliers from high-risk countries centrally managed by our Global Procurement department certified or audited by a credible sustainability standard. 62% 50% 100% of our 100 largest suppliers that are managed centrally by our Global Procurement department include the Supplier Code of Conduct or an equivalent standard as of 2017. 42% n/a Wolters Kluwer 2016 Sustainability Report 41 Community Involvement Knowledge, experience, effort, and funding are the ways we have support local communities. Our people, products, and solutions are available in areas of need to make a sustainable, long-term impact. The scope of our community support framework includes our endeavors in emergency relief activities, support for the underprivileged, as well as rewarding achievements and providing expertise for the community. Our Ambition: Caring for the Community Our Strategy As a company that provides essential information, Wolters Kluwer continues to use the London Benchmarking software, and services, Wolters Kluwer makes a difference Group (LBG) community support framework. The LBG in the communities in which it operates. The value we framework provides the structure to measure and report create for our customers and their positive impact on our community contributions. It separates donations, on society helps us to make a difference as well. Our costs, and time invested and portrays it in a transparent employees are used to developing and providing services and reliable manner. that benefit numerous communities. As a responsible company, however, Wolters Kluwer wants to do more We focus on two themes within charitable donations: for the communities in which it is active. We support emergency relief and achieving for our community. community initiatives that are aligned with our business Similarly, community investment is comprised of two focus strategy, have a high degree of local impact, or create areas: expertise for our community and empowering the personal engagement amongst our employees. Our underprivileged. community support comes in different forms. Together with employees, we match our resources to create real Wolters Kluwer measures its impact both quantitatively impact, whether in the form of time, money, products, (cash and in kind) and qualitatively (through reviews). At or expertise. We take a critical look at our community a country level, we review the impact of our contributions involvement, we measure our contributions, and based on context-specific key performance indicators we distinguish between charitable donations and assessing the benefits achieved for the community, for the community investments. environment, for our employees and our business. Community Support Framework (based on LBG) Charitable Community Donations Investment Emergency Relief Achieving for our Expertise for our Empowering the Community Community Underprivileged Wolters Kluwer 2016 Sustainability Report 42 It is the scope of their impact that characterizes these Explaining the materiality topics disasters. Major regional, national, and even global communities are affected, not only local communities. In on Community Involvement 2016 no emergency relief took place. Community Investment Achieving for our Community: Wolters Kluwer donates to Wolters Kluwer aims to be a responsible employer organizations that help those who need it most. These in the communities in which it operates. Our global initiatives are closely aligned with our business activities network of employees contributes time and expertise such as healthcare and access to information. to take care of its communities. We align responsible performance with our mission, vision and business As an example, Wolters Kluwer is a corporate team partner strategy. with the American Cancer Society’s Relay for Life program. Employees from around the United States form teams and walk (or run) a track with other employers and people in their communities. Events often last for 24 hours and We use the LBG Community Support Framework to analyze the funds raised are used for cancer research, patient our contributions. support programs, prevention information, and education. Our employees have raised more than $270,000 since Emergency Relief: The Wolters Kluwer emergency relief becoming a corporate team partner in 2010. This year Team program is centrally organized and complemented by SemiColon of Troy, MI, raised $5,371 for the American Cancer local employee-driven initiatives. Donations are invested Society. That brings their total contributions to $24,648 for in essential needs such as food, water, health, and the five years they have participated in the Relay for Life on housing. Natural disasters such as hurricanes, floods, or the Wolters Kluwer national team. earthquakes require a separate approach. Zika Resource Portal to Fight Against the Virus Wolters Kluwer is helping clinicians of care clinical, learning, and research In conjunction with the Portal, in the battle against the rapidly solutions, as well as continuous Wolters Kluwer is launching a multispreading Zika virus. The Health updates from the Centers for Disease faceted digital educational campaign division has launched the Zika Control and Prevention (CDC) and featuring Zika experts sharing the Resource Portal, a single point of World Health Organization (WHO). latest findings in a variety of formats. access to trusted clinical knowledge By providing clinicians with The Portal and campaign will feature and current information to help complimentary access to Wolters information for consumers, including healthcare professionals worldwide Kluwer’s trusted medical content, symptoms to look for and preventive stay up-to-date on the virus. The we help them to effectively diagnose measures to protect against Portal provides complimentary access and treat those affected, particularly contracting the virus. to our leading evidence-based point newborn babies. Wolters Kluwer 2016 Sustainability Report 43 Expertise for our Community: In long-term partnerships Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics (STEM) with local organizations, Wolters Kluwer aims to improve professionals made time in 2016 to work with youth. The the quality of life in a certain community by providing STEMpact 2020 program engages STEM professionals expertise, skills, knowledge, and motivation. in mentoring youth. Wolters Kluwer participated in the program at Wichita State University with volunteer coders In many cases, community involvement initiatives coincide and developers, who instructed children in advanced-level with our area of expertise. The long-term collaboration skills in coding. The Coder Monthly Meetups are designed with the United Nations program Hinari, enabling to help self-taught coder children take their skills to the communities in need to download Wolters Kluwer Health next level and learn the many paths to programming and digital solutions free of charge, has resulted in a total coding careers. contribution of 982,357 downloads over the past three years. The World Health Organization set up Hinari together Empowering the Underprivileged: Our employees with major publishers to enable lowand middle-income understand and appreciate the challenges of the countries to gain access to one of the world's largest communities in which they operate. This helps them to collections of biomedical and health literature. The large create value in partnership with local organizations and to collection of more than 400 OVID Journals available range empower the communities in which they work. from anesthesia to psychiatric practices. Wolters Kluwer Health aims to continue providing its expertise for positive and wide-reaching impact. Helping Underprivileged Children to Get Ready for the New School Year A Wolters Kluwer Legal & Regulatory skills while mentoring at-risk women school supplies needed were: team participated in the High-Water and youth. notebooks, folders, loose-leaf Women (HWW) 2016 Backpack Drive. The annual High Water Women paper, markers, pens, pencils, pencil HWW donates backpacks for lessBackpack Drive helps thousands of cases, protractors, calculators, fortunate households in time for the children in need start the school year graph paper, staplers, dictionaries, start of the school year. HWW enables ready to learn. The families receiving scissors, erasers, crayons, rulers, and volunteers to teach financial literacy the backpacks are not able to afford early readers. classes to low-income youth, conduct even the most basic school supplies. career days and boost computer Examples of age-appropriate Wolters Kluwer 2016 Sustainability Report 44 On “Giving Tuesday”, with the help of staff, partners from Meals of Hope is an organization that enables volunteers the Tampa Bay Technology Forum, and colleagues from to make a positive impact by bringing food packing various companies within our office building, TeamMate events to their local churches, schools, clubs and packed over 8,800 meals for distribution to those in service organizations. Feeding Tampa Bay, part of the need in the Tampa Bay area. The event was organized national Feeding America network, provides food to in collaboration with Meals of Hope and Feeding more than 700,000 people in the 10-county area of Tampa Bay. West Central Florida. Community Contributions in Thousands of Euro 2016 2015 2014 2013 Community Contributions in Cash 617 724 640 514 Community Contributions in Kind 1,765 1,430 3,693 4,256 Management Cost Related to Community Contributions 32 29 28 25 Total 2,414 2,183 4,361 4,798 Our Community Contributions in Kind decreased due to fewer downloads of Wolters Kluwer products as part of the Hinari program. This trend is visible throughout the Hinari program and is not limited to Wolters Kluwer products. TeamMate Builds “Oyster Domes” to Support Environmental Restoration During Wolters Kluwer’s Tax and the protection and restoration of the domes have been an integral part Accounting TeamMate sales meeting Tampa Bay estuary through scientific of Tampa Bay Watch's restoration in 2016, employees rolled up their and educational programs. programs, which build approximately sleeves and got their hands dirty by Oyster domes help replace oyster 1,000 oyster domes each year. These building concrete “oyster domes” in populations in struggling habitat 100-pound domes are installed along conjunction with Tampa Bay Watch, a areas. Originally designed to rebuild seawalls and shorelines to provide nonprofit organization dedicated to coral reefs all over the world, oyster habitat for fish and crabs. Wolters Kluwer 2016 Sustainability Report 45 Company Profile Our Mission Our customers make critical decisions every day. We help them move forward with confidence. Wolters Kluwer provides essential information, software, and services to doctors, nurses, accountants, lawyers, auditors, and compliance and regulatory professionals. We enable our customers to provide worldclass service and maximize their potential. Wolters Kluwer serves Accounting Firms Allied Health Personnel 90% 87% Banks Compliance Professionals Corporate Finance Professionals Corporations Financial Institutions Corporate Legal Counsels Nearly 90% of U.S. of Fortune 500 Government Agencies Hedge & Mutual Funds academic medical companies Hospitals centers HR Departments Insurance Companies Law Firms 100% 90% Law Schools Legal Professionals Leasing Companies Libraries Medical & Nursing Students Notaries of the top 100 U.S. of the world’s Nurses accounting firms top banks Payors Pharmacists Physicians Small Businesses Tax Professionals Universities All information in the Company Profile has been copied from the 2016 Annual Report. Wolters Kluwer 2016 Sustainability Report 46 2016 Key Figures Revenues Total annual revenues Revenues by division Revenues by media € mln € mln in % 5,000 100 68 70 73 4,208 4,297 927 4,000 1,022 1,106 1,106 3,660 75 816 4,297 3,000 989 1,132 1,173 50 1,091 2,000 1,065 1,173 1,091 854 12 25 13 12 1,000 1,001 989 927 20 17 15 Health 0 0 Tax & Accounting 2014 2015 2016 2014 2015 2016 Governance, Risk & Compliance Legal & Regulatory Health Digital Tax & Accounting Services Governance, Risk & Compliance Print Legal & Regulatory Total adjusted operating profit margin % 22.1% Revenues by geography Organic revenue growth 24.5% in % in % 100 4 26.9% 37 33 31 28.4% 75 3 61 2.8 12.0% 59 2.7 55 50 2 0 5 10 15 20 25 30 1.9 25 1 Total employees 6 6 6 Full-time equivalent (FTE) 0 0 2 2 2 1 04 2014 2015 2016 2014 2015 2016 3,064 Europe 4,363 North America Asia Pacific 18,318 Rest of the world 4,511 6,276 Health Tax & Accounting Governance, Risk & Compliance Legal & Regulatory Corporate Wolters Kluwer 2016 Sustainability Report 47 Key Performance Indicators 2016 Target 2016 2015 Adjusted operating profit margin in % 22.1 21.5-22.0 21.4 Adjusted free cash flow in € mln 711 650-675 651 Return on invested capital in % 9.8 ≥9 9.3 Diluted adjusted EPS in € 2.12 Mid single-digit growth 2.01 Guidance for adjusted free cash flow and diluted adjusted EPS is in constant currencies (€/$ 1.11). Guidance for EPS growth assumes the announced share repurchases are equally spread over 2016-2018. Adjusted operating profit margin and ROIC are in reported currencies. Adjusted operating profit by division Adjusted operating profit margin € mln in % 950 1,000 902 23 271 247 768 750 197 315 22 22.1 311 261 500 21.4 21 309 21.0 298 232 250 20 127 111 96 0 (49) (50) (56) 19 2014 2015 2016 2014 2015 2016 Health Tax & Accounting Governance, Risk & Compliance Legal & Regulatory Corporate Adjusted free cash flow Diluted adjusted € mln earnings per share in euro 700 2.20 708 647 2.10 600 2.00 1.96 500 516 1.80 400 1.60 1.57 1.40 2014 2015 2016 2014 2015 2016 Wolters Kluwer 2016 Sustainability Report 48 About this Report This is the 13th report in which we share our ambitions, for the fluctuation in the data trends or the exclusion of strategies, policies, and performance on sustainability. the data. As of 2012, we report our sustainability efforts in line with our Sustainability Framework: Governance, Customers & Our qualitative data relates to the positive environmental Solutions, Employee Engagement, Resource Management and social impacts we realize with our products and and Community Involvement. This report is compiled services. Our customers report on elements of their according to the principles of the Global Reporting sustainability performance, which are often linked to these Initiative G4 and is fully in line with the ‘Core’ guidelines. products and services. Ultimately, we believe that society This is the fifth year we have followed these guidelines in benefits from the knowledge, time saving, and increased our reporting processes. We continued using the additional resource efficiency that our products and services provide indicators of the last two years to ensure continuity in our and that are addressed in this report. reporting processes and historic data. We requested the responsible managers to sign off on the data. This extra As our sustainability information is continually updated, step contributes to gathering more complete data. Through this report summarizes our performance during one year. the process of data collection more awareness is created For periodic updates, a separate section on our corporate on the relevance of sustainable reporting. website reports on the latest developments as they occur. Additionally, new policies, memberships, activities, awards, At Wolters Kluwer, each division rolls out its sustainability and engagement opportunities can also be found there. initiatives based on specific local opportunities. These initiatives are required to adhere to our globallyThe data presented in this report are collected on an established policies and compliance regulations. The annual basis by the Corporate Sustainability team. In Corporate Sustainability team works together with divisions principle, they represent the reporting period from January and departments in discussing principles, processes, 1, 2016, through December 31, 2016. For some locations, data, and design of the annual Sustainability Report. The the data (energy, water and waste) were not available for team coordinates the development of new targets and the year under review. For example, landlords in some policies while collecting the annual sustainability data. countries provide historical invoice data that can be two Furthermore, it focuses on active stakeholder engagement. years old. To complete the 2016 data, we extrapolated historical data. For five years now, the heads of Global By adhering to the G4 reporting principles, we have Procurement, Human Resources, Real Estate, Legal, and generated synergies with other reference tables such Communications have been collecting the data from as the United Nations Global Compact and enabled the divisions and operating entities within the scope of this harmonization of reporting requirements for the different report. The Group Accounting department consolidates frameworks. The tables, together with our Awards and these data using the financial consolidation system. Honors, can be found online. These are our scoping guidelines for our sustainability Our efforts are reported in a quantitative and a qualitative data: manner throughout the report. ―― We collect data from countries that represent at least Our quantitative data have been provided with regards to 1% of total revenue or 1% of Full-Time Equivalents clear social and environmental impacts of the last three (FTEs); years. In some cases – due to definition adjustments and ―― Corporate governance data are collected globally, progressive insight – we have excluded the data from although some exceptions may apply due to local previous years. Where applicable, we provide explanations legislation; Wolters Kluwer 2016 Sustainability Report 49 ―― For Resource Management we collect: – Energy, water and waste; – Data are collected for facilities that cover more than 1,000 m2 and are extrapolated for all Wolters Kluwer facilities. For the U.S. we only collect data for offices that we own and extrapolate for the leased and rented offices. CO2 emissions are calculated with location-specific conversion factors, which are adjusted annually based on the newly released conversion factors in ‘Guidelines to Defra / DECC’s GHG Conversion Factors for company Reporting’. Due to changes in Defra’s methodology, Wolters Kluwer uses the data of the International Energy Agency (IEA) for electricity conversion factors as recommended in the DECC conversion factor report; – Business air travel: per country; – Paper: per country; ―― Community contributions: per country; and ―― Employee data: per country. All data expressed ‘per FTE’ (emissions from energy consumption, business air travel, water consumption, and staff turnover) are based on the average number of FTEs. Where we report data in euro, currencies are converted using the financial year’s average exchange rate. Wolters Kluwer 2016 Sustainability Report 50 Contact & Report Information Contact Stakeholder inquiries: Roland Waardenburg Corporate Sustainability Lead Tel: +31 (0)172 641 450 sustainability@wolterskluwer.com Investor inquiries Meg Geldens Vice President, Investor Relations Tel: +31 (0)172 641 407 sustainability@wolterskluwer.com Media inquiries Annemarije Pikaar Senior Manager External Communications, Corporate Communications Tel: +31 (0)172 641 421 press@wolterskluwer.com Wolters Kluwer N.V. Zuidpoolsingel 2 P.O. Box 1030 2400 BA Alphen aan den Rijn The Netherlands info@wolterskluwer.com www.wolterskluwer.com www.linkedin.com/company/wolters-kluwer www.facebook.com/wolterskluwer www.twitter.com/wolters_kluwer Report This Sustainability Report is available as a PDF, on our website www.wolterskluwer.com Wolters Kluwer also issued a 2016 Annual Report, available as a PDF on our website. We invite you to comment on the report: ® MIX sustainability@wolterskluwer.com Paper from responsible sources FSC® C SGS-COC-002340 www.fsc.org Chamber of Commerce Trade Registry No. 33.202.517
