Adherence to the Ten Guiding Principles Principles Company's Policy & Direction Specific Actions Taken (GRI indicators correlated with) (Approach/ Process/ Deployment) (Outcomes with Key results and measurements) Human Rights Principle 1 1. Tata Code of Conduct (TCOC), which embodies our values, was We follow the International Declaration of adopted and is explained (in languages besides English, also in Human Rights. Our HR policies and Hindi, Tamil and Marathi). All employees in the organization procedures have been modelled accordingly. including new entrants sign the TCOC. Regular trainings are The Company's policies on Management of conducted. A film on TCOC has also been prepared internally for Business Ethics (MBE) also are strong wide circulation and reinforcement of ethical code amongst all testimonies of this practice. employees & other stakeholders. Prevention of Sexual Harassment (POSH) Policy has also been adopted to address any form of sexual harassment faced by the employees. The Company has a separate Lady Ethics Counsellor and the Chief Ethics Counsellor of the Adoption of CII Code of Coduct and CII Fair Company is also the President of the Internal Complaints Committee Workplace Guidelines (ICC) to address any breach against the Prevention of Sexual Harassment (POSH). 2. At entry point of their engagement, all employees are provided with a Service Rule book, which lay down various rules for the officers, like working hours of all employees, facilities provided by the company, including leave entitlement, etc. 3. Whistle-Blower Policy for Employees & Directors as well as a separate one for Vendors are in place. Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human 4. External Leadership of Business ethics survey for Officers, rights Associates, Contract Workers and Vendors was conducted In FY 17 in 4 Languages. 5. Annual Compliance report (ACR) represents the ongoing journey towards creating a robust evaluation system for business ethics. The data and information provided are mapped in the Company's ACR to the four pillars of the business ethics framework embedded in the compliance program; namely Leadership, Compliance Structure, Communication and Training and Measurement of effectiveness. In Ethics compliance report, TSPDL moved into the Established category on all four pillars. 6. Regular dialogues/feedbacks are conducted across the organization with/from all employees during various Communication Meets. The Employee Engagement & Satisfaction Surveys also serve as a means to collect feedback from the employees. 7. A separate access to the Audit Committee Chairman as well as a third party ethics helpline through toll free number has also been provided to all employees to report any breach of action. Principle 2 TCOC expressly commits to treat all 1. The Company ensures that it engages in business with suppliers, employees with dignity and to conduct its vendors, etc. who are compatible with the practices of the Company business fairly without making any as laid down in the TCOC. discriminations. Also, our HR/IR processes are derived through a consultative process, i.e. joint 2. Any issue of conflict is addressed and peacefully resolved by the Make sure they are not complicit in discussion of the management with the top management in discussion with the Union. human rights abuses Union. 3. There is also a Safety Council, Welfare Committee, WhistleBlower Protection Committee, Sexual Harassment Committee, Grievance Cell to address the various issues raised by the employees. Principles Company's Policy & Direction Specific Actions Taken (GRI indicators correlated with) (Approach/ Process/ Deployment) (Outcomes with Key results and measurements) Labour Standards Principle 3 The management interacts with labour Unions for fixation of salaries, labour welfare measures, productivity bonus and all such decisions are arrived at with mutual consent, considering the performance parameters of the Company. TSPDL engages in a process of 'collective The company has also adopted Suraksha Scheme with the an Businesses Should uphold the bargaining' through employee Union and objective to provide financial assistance to the family of the contract freedom of association and the periodic negotiations take place (every 3 workers in case of death/ permanent or partial total disablement effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining years, a Negotiated Wage settlement is resulting in loss of earning capacity of 50% and above arising out of arrived at) as per our Company policy. an accident on duty (in the employer's premises) so as to enable the family of contract workers himself/ herself a dignified living post occurence of such an incident. Principle 4 As per the Govt of India policies, forced and The elimination of all forms of forced There is no forced and/or compulsory labour in Tata Steel compulsory labour is banned. The Company and compulsory labour Processing And Distribution Limited. policies support this Principle. Principle 5 The Company's Recruitment & Selection 1.The Company engages employees over 18 years of age only and Policy ensures that only adults over 18 years deals with suppliers and vendors who comply with this requirement. of age are employed by the Company. A detailed Vendor registration process is also in place. The effective abolition of child labour All suppliers/ Dealers/ Vendors are also 2. There is a continuous review & monitoring policy in place to informed on this issue for strict compliance. ensure this. Principle 6 1. Our HR policies on recruitment and selection are strictly nondiscriminatory. Right to employment in the organization is protected & practised regardless of religion, caste, creed or sex. This is also laid down in TCOC. However, TSPDL, as per its Affirmative Action Policy, is committed to assist members from the Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe communities for employment opportunities and as business associates, provided everything else (merit for We abide by TCOC and do not discriminate employment; cost and quality for business associates) is equal. Eliminate discrimination in respect of our recruitment & selection process on the employment and occupation basis of caste/creed/sex/religion etc. 2.TSPDL recognizes the importance of diversity within its workforce. The company has adopted Diversity and Inclusion Policy in FY 18. It believes that a diverse workplace will bring in a variety of abilities, ideas, cultures, perspectives, approaches and understandings, thereby enriching a culture of high performance, engagement and innovation. Principles (GRI indicators Company's Policy & Direction (Approach/ Specific actions taken (Outcomes with Key results and correlated with) Process/ Deployment) measurements) Environmental Protection Principle 7 The company is pro-environmental in its 1.The Company has adopted Energy Policy and Water Policy in the approach & practices and specific policies year 2016 to create awareness amongst the employees towards and guidelines exist to set direction that conservation and efficient usage of energy and water. address these Principles and beyond. 2. Certain units of the Company are certified to ISO 14000 Environment System Standards. 3. Environmental Assessment Impact studies & Carbon Footprint exercises are conducted at regular intervals for different business units and recommendations followed up. Businesses should support a 4. Pune unit achieved GreenCo GOLD rating as per the CII Green precautionary approach to Company Rating System. In FY 18, few other units of the company environmental challenges are also in process to undergo GreenCo Rating by CII 5. Operates ETPs to neutralize effluents. 6. TSPDL products do not have any immediate adverse impact on the society, as the process of sizing the steel through slitting, cuttingto-length, roll forming, etc. are all green . 7. Rainwater harvesting is carried out. 8. All e-wastes are disposed off in an environment-friendly manner. 9. Maintains norms for air & water emissions, noise pollution and Forest Act. 10. Usage of natural day lighting by using transparent roof sheets. Principles (GRI indicators Company's Policy & Direction (Approach/ Specific actions taken (Outcomes with Key results and correlated with) Process/ Deployment) measurements) Principle 8 Undertake initiatives to promote Awareness amongst employees for greater environmental responsibility maintenance and protection of safe & 1. Reducing usage of LDPE, HDPE by using single VCI stretch film healthy environment as an inclusive work in our Cold-Rolled Processing. practice requirement is continuously imparted 2. Replacing wood with steel pallets. 3. Carbon Footprint exercise was also done. 4. Energy audit has been been started carrying out in certain units 5. Regular office/pantry use items like paper cups, etc are disocuraged. Employees also are encouraged to practice environement-friendly habits, like switching off lights when not using, keep the AC in an acceptable temperature, etc. Awareness sessions are regularly held. 6. A Wellness at Workplace program was organised all across the locations of the company in order to promote health, fitness and quality of life of workforce. Principle 9 1. Impact of products/operations on society is considered at the project feasibility stage itself so that correct technology can be chosen and used. 2. Emphasis is on the use of re-generated acid for pickling operations, or even replacing pickling opeartions entirely with EPS technology. 3. Effluent water is treated to eliminate harmful elements and used for other purposes. Encourage the development and 4. Installation of water meter and line wise energy meter in certain diffusion of environmentally friendly units. technologies 5. Installation of Briquette firing system for boiler of pickling line. 6. Installation of LED high-way lights. 7. Installation of Variable Frequency Drives based air compressors. 8. Power saving initiatives have been undertaken like switching from DC to AC drives, automatic switching of electrical load, when not in use, using power-efficient lighting, etc. Principles (GRI indicators Company's Policy & Direction (Approach/ Specific actions taken (Outcomes with Key results and correlated with) Process/ Deployment) measurements) Anti-Corruption & Prevention of Bribery Principle 10 As a Tata Group Company, there is an 1.A copy of Tata Code of Conduct (TCOC) is given at the time of elaborate system and processes on the employment to all the employees for the purpose of reading and ‘Management of Business Ethics’ (MBE) understanding which is afterwards required to be signed by every and all employees sign our TCOC. employee. The TCOC spells out in clear terms the norms on gifts & donations and the ethical 2.The company has a Chief Ethics Counsellor and local Ethics ways for conducting the company's business Counsellors across the major locations of the Company. The name affairs such that corruption in workplace is and contact number of the Company's Chief Ethics Counsellor is prevented/eliminated. displayed on all Purchase Orders of the Company to report any untoward ethical breach. A separate access to the Audit Committee Chairman as well as a third party ethics helpline number has also Adoption Adoption of Anti Bribery & Anti been provided to all employees to report any breach of action. Corruption Policy and Anti Money Laundering Policy Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including 3.TCOC has undergone for revision at Tata Group Level and based extortion and bribery on the global best practices and regulatory changes in the key markets in which the group operates the new code was adopted in the year 2015. A Whistle-Blower Policy has been in place since the year 2005. It has been re-visited in the years 2008 and then in 2014 All Management and supervisory staff sign and appropriate changes made. A Gift Policy is also in place for the Tata Code of Conduct (TCOC). some years now. In 2015, however, based on the policies of the parent company (Tata Steel Limited), new and revised Gift and Whistle-Blower Policies were adopted. An Anti-Bribery & AntiCorruption Policy (ABAC Policy) & Anti-Money Laundering Policy (AML Policy) was also adopted by the company in 2016. 4.Breaches on ethics, after thorough probe with full transparency, are addressed through exemplary punishment including dismissal, At the vendor / Suppliers meets, our TCOC suspension & warnings, with feedback to the top management. This is explained. is an ongoing process. The Company also has a separate WhistleBlower Policy for Vendors.
