OPPORTUNITY TWO EXCEL FOUNDATION (OTEF) Hse No 1100 Service Tel: 00233-268128013 Location: No. 7 Victory Email: Plot D.T.D Comm. 17 00233-206423083 CL, Comm. 17 Lashibi, o2efoundation@gmail.com Lashibi Tema http://o2efoundation.page.tl/ Opposite Phidel Hotel 10/04/2017. Dear Sir/Madam, Opportunity Two Excel Foundation focused on Hazardous occupation against women, children, environment and anti-corruption. The year 2016 was very challenging and with few success. Opportunity Two Excel Foundation objective to strengthen livelihoods of poor and vulnerable groups, particularly women through a combination of efforts to build rural assets, skills, and hence create employment and income generating opportunities and enlighten the government agencies and private organizations to control, monitor and evaluate occupational hazardous against women and children particularly women during pregnancy and breast feeding in all sectors. Strategies to bridge the gap of gender equality which has affected women negatively. Opportunity Two Excel Foundation wants to educate and encourage child basic education because that is the only means to avoid child soldiers or child forcibly enlisted into military service and operations. Only about 40% of these objectives were achieved due to limited resources, human constraints and lack of access to information. 2016 saw more improvement than the previous years. Opportunity Two Excel Foundation previous project was done in 2014 in the Eastern Region of Ghana. The project focused on child labour, water and health. The 2016 project was part of Opportunity Two Excel Foundation sustainability plan and progress assessment prior to the 2014 project executed in Eastern Region of Ghana. Thank you Yours Faithfully Nicodemus Nalerrow Atsu CEO Charity Registration Number: C0005131103 Human Rights There is big gap in gender equality where a pregnant woman suffers in hazardous occupations, strip baby on her back at the same time carry heavy load on the head whiles husband will just carry cutlass and when they arrive from the farm the woman will do all the housework including cooking. Many men beat their wives under the influence of alcohol and hard drugs. Opportunity Two Excel Foundation main objectives in the areas of Human Rights are to provide a better future for the marginalized and vulnerable sections of Ghanaian society. The project: ÿ addressed Children, Women Rights and psychological consequence on the children and women now and future ÿ Sensitized civil society institutions on issues so that they could positively engaged in redressed of social justice. ÿ provided an advice on legal procedure to the local cases of violence against children, less privilege and gender rights. ÿ promoted and raise social justice issues at various levels through workshops, seminars and community leaders at village, block and regional levels. ÿ Reduced about 15% forms of children and women violations of human rights ÿ promoted human rights culture in society by working towards the empowerment women, children and civil society and law enforcement agencies through education, awareness, protect, adopt and enforce women rights , child human rights through legal intervention. ÿ Empowerment of the indigenous and the vulnerable sections of the society have helped them realized their rights through collective action in Eastern region of Ghana. Charity Registration Number: C0005131103 ÿ The Human Rights awareness program in the Eastern Region of Ghana has made positive impact and has created better relationship with the public and law enforcement agencies. Labour The main occupations of these people are farming. The occupations involve prolonged bending, Heavy lifting, stooping, twisting, or standing. Many children stopped school just to assist their parents at farm who cannot afford labour, about 70% children are forced into labour, the children are deprived of having formal education. Physical injuries and mutilations are caused by badly maintained machinery on farms and in factories, machete accidents in plantations, and any number of hazards encountered in industries such as mining, ceramics and fireworks manufacture. They experience a high rate of the work-related injuries and deaths with no insurance, no pension benefit, minimal sleep, inadequate meals,70% could not afford hospital bills, 50% could not afford to register with National Health Insurance and 20% could not afford newly renewal of National Health Insurance. The residents live on less than one USD daily, women in Eastern Region in abject poverty which has been be passed on to children and create endless cycles of poverty, disease, low life expectancy and early unplanned pregnancies due to high level of illiteracy. Some of the more difficult issues involve children working for economic necessity, parents wanting to instill a sense of responsibility and work ethic, lack of child care options and the cultural tradition of engaging children to hard labour instead of being at school. The farm and illegal mining possesses a multitude of dangers including falls, work fatigue, burns, poisonings, machinery, dependency on weather conditions and variation in climatic patterns, and a stressed economy, reproductive risk factors and environmental hazards. Charity Registration Number: C0005131103 Environment Opportunity Two Excel Foundation has adopted grassroots environmental biodiversity, conserving, protecting, restoring and/or advocating for the ecosystems. These species or most of these species are used for scientific purpose and research purpose by high educational institutions and other research institution but the pollution from agriculture, poor environmental sanitation and mining, apart from posing a threat to the availability of potable water, have also resulted in very serious health consequences for every Ghanaian. Opportunity Two Excel Foundation strategies involve girls, boys and youth. The objectives to reduce or end water dryness, river pollution and killing of species. Opportunity Two Excel Foundation did: an active learning and advocacy in the areas of environment organized workshops and seminars. educated and strengthen conservation and biodiversity focus groups Opportunity Two Excel Foundation made conservation and protection of ecosystems and species education an important component Mobilization actions on grassroots environmental conserving, protecting, restoring and/or advocating for the ecosystems Climate Change is here to stay, human activities is also destroying biodiversity. Water species, plants species, animal species, birds species and other species are declining day-by-day even in the areas of agriculture crop production has reduce. The practices are done by ignorant and lack of education will kill river species, abusing the water bodies and plant species will never stop. Anti-Corruption Ant-corruption was one of the challenging areas for Opportunity Two Excel Foundation, being small organisation with no public high profile person/s attached, with no political affiliate and total Charity Registration Number: C0005131103 independence organisation. OTEF made some progress though meetings held with few departmental heads. There is room for improvement. Executive Director Remarks Opportunity Two Excel Foundation has made great effort but we can do more, our 2014 was better than 2013, 2015 was better than 2014 and 2016 was better than 2015. We believe 2017 will see great positive change through your support and partnership. Goal for 2017 Opportunity Two Excel Foundation want to form alliance with individuals or organisation near or afar to enable us do more. The main goal for Opportunity Two Excel Foundation in 2017 1. we want create and increase employment opportunities, reduce environmental damages, market access and incomes for poor and marginalized groups, particularly women because in Ghana we women have greater participation in economic activities 2. Engage women in the top level jobs, 3. Promote livelihood, entrepreneurship among the women and prepare them through vocational training to become responsible adults. 4. Bridge the gender gap which is affecting women in Ghana. 5. Improved value chains to facilitate access of poor and women to viable markets with appropriate products and services, 6. To contribute to sustainable livelihoods for the indigenous and women Charity Registration Number: C0005131103 7. Improved literacy and functional skills, and leadership opportunities for women. 8. Make child education primary objectives, liaise with girls, boys, youth, community leaders and organizations to protect the environments, 9. Do more in the areas of environment, health, agriculture, ant-corruption, labour and capacity building 10. We want to register more indigenous to National Health Insurance Opportunity Two Excel Foundation is humbly calling for partners worldwide to help us tackle issues of labour, human rights, ant-corruption and environment through education, research, advocacy and implementation. We will be very happy to receive your comments or contribution. Kindly contact us on the above contact information. Thank you. Hope to work with you. Charity Registration Number: C0005131103
