COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) Period covered by your Communication on Progress (COP) From: 2016 To: 2017 1. STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT BY THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER (OWNER OR PRESIDENT IN THE CASE OF SMALL BUSINESSES) Please use the box below to include the statement of continued support signed by your company’s chief executive 17.01.17 To our stakeholders: I am pleased to confirm that Danish Coffee and Tea reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In 2017 Danish Coffee and Tea is focusing on a new strategy that involves the entire distribution chain. We have focus on this because we want to strengthen global partnership, which are one of our main goals. We are involved in a four-leaf partnership that includes a non-governmental organization, the farmers, retailers and us as a producer. We all have the same goal: Together we will strive to improve the life and income for the farmers by cooperating and having an open financial calculation. Sincerely yours, Lars Bendix, CEO 2. DESCRIPTION OF ACTIONS Human Rights Please use the box below to describe actions your company has taken in the area of human rights. We focus on equality for women by involving them financially in several projects (VSLA Groups). We work with NGO (non-governmental organizations) like Red Cross and Seniors Without Borders to create and start projects that will ensure a good and stabile life for the farmers both financially and physically. Labour Please use the box below to describe actions your company has taken in the area of labour. To ensure that the farmers have what they need financially to grow and harvest the coffee beans right, we guide them to start VSLA groups. We do not accept child labor and do not work with any partners that uses child labor. We work only with families and therefore no one is hiring children. The farmer’s children might help working in the household, but this is normal and only happens when they are free from school. Environment Please use the box below to describe actions your company has taken in the area of environment. To enhance the environment in Africa we have planted shadow trees. The shadow trees gives a better CO2 footprint, and at the same time, the shade helps the coffee tree to double the outcome. We try to prevent landslides by intercropping and planting shade trees. We only use organic pesticides. Anti-Corruption Please use the box below to describe actions your company has taken to fight corruption. We have a zero tolerance for corruption. The first statement we give new partners/business partners is that we have zero tolerance for corruption, and that we will walk away no matter what from any business deal if corruption is a part of it. We will also persecute the people involved. We use common trading routes and do business directly with the farmers. Therefor corruption is luckily not a part of our normal daily business. 3. MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES In the box below, please include the most relevant indicators to measure outcomes. We ask our farmers how/if they feel changes in their quality of life and economy. The farmers tell us that their income has increased by 2,5-3 times in average. The quality of the coffee today compared to when we started, has improved significantly. This improvement comes from the farmers increased quality of life and higher income.
