Mission, The GRI Message from About the Welcome Highlights Vision and Profile Governance Goals Pharmaceutical Employees Environment Society Content Credits the CEO Report Core Values Industry Index Sustainability Report 2016/2017 Base year April 2016 to March 2017 Daiichi Sankyo Brasil Sustainability Report 2016/2017 1 Mission, The GRI Message from About the Welcome Highlights Vision and Profile Governance Goals Pharmaceutical Employees Environment Society Content Credits the CEO Report Core Values Industry Index Contents Welcome Message Highlights Mission, Vision Profile Governance Goals _____ from the CEO _____ and Core Values _____ _____ _____ _____ _____ page 03 page 05 page 08 page 10 page 12 page 16 page 22 The Pharmaceutical Employees Environment Society About GRI Content Credits Industry _____ _____ _____ the Report Index _____ _____ _____ _____ page 24 page 30 page 34 page 39 page 43 page 45 page 51 Daiichi Sankyo Brasil Sustainability Report 2016/2017 2 Mission, The GRI Message from About the Welcome Highlights Vision and Profile Governance Goals Pharmaceutical Employees Environment Society Content Credits the CEO Report Core Values Industry Index Welcome Daiichi Sankyo Brasil Sustainability Report 2016/2017 3 Mission, The GRI Message from About the Welcome Highlights Vision and Profile Governance Goals Pharmaceutical Employees Environment Society Content Credits the CEO Report Core Values Industry Index Welcome GRI G4-3 | G4-7 | G4-19 | G4-28 | G4-31 This is the 2016/2017 Daiichi Sankyo Brasil’s Sustainability Report. Daiichi Sankyo Brasil Material Themes It aims to provide the organization’s stakeholders with comprehensive and 1 5 transparent information about its management, performance, strategies, commitments and actions throughout the fiscal year from 04/01/2016 Medicines and Training and to 03/31/2017. Environment Impacts Education 2 6 For the ninth consecutive year, the report follows the guidelines proposed by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), an international organization that establishes a standard for reporting sustainability indicators, good Market Share Water practice recognized and voluntarily adopted by thousands of companies 3 7 around the world. Compliance to Effluents and Throughout the document, the main operational aspects for environmental, Laws and Regulations Residues social and financial sustainability of Daiichi Sankyo Brasil are covered. 4 8 So that the information reported is the most relevant for the business development in the short, medium and long term, the company held Client’s Health Anti-Corruption a consultation with the main stakeholders, in the previous fiscal year, and Safety revalidated with the executives in the process for defining the report content, presenting the following material themes: The themes selection process is described in more detail in the chapter About the Report on page 43. For each material theme, GRI indicators are reported, in their G4 version, managed by Daiichi Sankyo, which can be located by the acronym “GRI-G4” along the content and in the chapter GRI Index, on page 45. Contact To submit questions, suggestions or request more information about the report, contact us at responsabilidadesocial@dsbr.com.br Daiichi Sankyo Brasil Sustainability Report 2016/2017 4 Mission, The GRI Message from About the Welcome Highlights Vision and Profile Governance Goals Pharmaceutical Employees Environment Society Content Credits the CEO Report Core Values Industry Index Message from the CEO Daiichi Sankyo Brasil Sustainability Report 2016/2017 5 Mission, The GRI Message from About the Welcome Highlights Vision and Profile Governance Goals Pharmaceutical Employees Environment Society Content Credits the CEO Report Core Values Industry Index Message from the CEO GRI G4-1 Daiichi Sankyo Brasil has a clear and deep commitment to transparency With this change, we have strengthened our new products development in its relationship with all its stakeholders internal or external. For strategy, especially in new medical specialties, and we remain to work this reason, we are very proud to publish this 2016/2017 Sustainability efficiently on therapeutic areas and medicines that are already on the market, Report, in which we present the most important information for our guaranteeing the improvement of the quality of life for thousands of people. business in the period. Here, different aspects of our management and In other words, we are thinking about the future, but without losing focus on operation that lead us to sustainable development and value creation the present. in the short, medium and long term will be addressed in order to continue fulfilling the mission of contributing to people’s quality of life This new Vision shows that our concern about the medical and scientific by creating and supplying innovative medicines. quality of our activities is even more important. In line with the global strategy, in 2016 we’ve restructured the Medical Affairs Division, giving even During the last fiscal year, even facing an adverse macroeconomic scenario, more relevance to the structure responsible for the technical precision of we reached our goals and expected results and continued to promote an our activities by raising it to the company’s maximum hierarchy. It acts both intense evolution process in our management. While Brazil was experiencing in the research of new medicines and also in the dissemination of scientific an economic and political crisis, which led to a decline in GDP and industrial information, playing an important role in the company’s relationship with activity itself, we focused on improving processes and internal planning, researchers and physicians. with particular attention to ethical conduct engagement and awareness and team training, while ensuring sustainable growth in the period. We also need to highlight the performance of our Sales Force team with healthcare professionals. They travel the country, visiting doctors’ offices, From the internal planning perspective, an important step was the change clinics, hospitals and pharmacies on a daily basis, bringing reliable information in our Global Positioning. Based on discussions held at our headquarters in about our products. That is why we have invested heavily in 2016/2017, with Japan, the CEO announced a new guideline increasingly focused on innovative a new and modern support system, a new promotional cycle and changes medicines, especially in the oncology area. That led to the development of a new at University of Daiichi Sankyo (UDS), an online distance learning platform. 5-year business plan (2016-2020) and a shift in our vision for 2025: “To become a global pharma innovator company with competitive advantage in oncology.” Daiichi Sankyo Brasil Sustainability Report 2016/2017 6 Mission, The GRI Message from About the Welcome Highlights Vision and Profile Governance Goals Pharmaceutical Employees Environment Society Content Credits the CEO Report Core Values Industry Index Message from the CEO Over the past year, our new business and regulatory affairs areas have also In addition to training in ethics, we train our employees on a variety of other played a major role in the development and approval of new medicines in topics, such as Quality, Leadership, Environment, Safety and we generate the country. With these efforts and through partnerships, we were able to opportunities for self-knowledge. In all, there were 22,928 hours of training, launch two new products: the analgesic Daisan (tramadol hydrochloride + expressing our understanding that strengthening our team and valuing paracetamol) and Dainitre (propatylnitrate). Therefore, we have expanded employees are the main way to ensure our sustainable growth. Receiving our portfolio and ensured the improvement in people’s quality of life. the Great Place To Work® Award (GPTW) Barueri and Region 2016 is recognition of this effort. In addition to the focus on innovation, the year 2016/2017 was marked by deep internal discussions on the Ethics and Corruption topics. Amid the In 2016/2017, we also focused on improving our production processes, turbulent period experienced by Brazil, in which these issues are a concern particularly our Environmental Management. We have been able to for the whole society, we discussed ways to strengthen even further our substantially reduce energy and water consumption, CO2 emissions and internal controls and our compliance area. generation of waste. Backed by the excellence in this management, we achieved the maintenance of ISO 14001 certification, receiving the highest As a result, we relaunched our Code of Ethical Conduct, pointing out grade in the audit process, reaching level 5. the ethical and moral principles guiding the actions of our employees, and launched the Anti-Corruption Policy, addressing the major risks and Stemming from all these reflection, planning and internal arrangement key measures to prevent corruption within the company. All employees efforts, we strengthen Daiichi Sankyo Brasil and prepare for the continuity underwent training related to both themes mentioned above. We also started of our long-term growth. Thus, we believe we can guarantee to our patients the Integrity Program, which intends, over the next few years, to increasingly continuous and increasing access to our medicines, improving the quality engage employees on these topics. of life of the population, and to our employees, suppliers and partners, a sustainable business that shares its development and value generation The focus on fighting corruption also strengthens our adherence to the with all. Global Compact, of which we have been a signatory since 2010. Through this commitment, we demonstrate that we are aware of our role as promoters Good reading, of sustainable development. Eloi Bosio CEO Daiichi Sankyo Brasil Daiichi Sankyo Brasil Sustainability Report 2016/2017 7 Mission, The GRI Message from About the Welcome Highlights Vision and Profile Governance Goals Pharmaceutical Employees Environment Society Content Credits the CEO Report Core Values Industry Index Highlights “To contribute to patients’ quality of life through innovative products is our mission.” Alessandra Rolim Regulatory Affairs Daiichi Sankyo Brasil Sustainability Report 2016/2017 8 Mission, The GRI Message from About the Welcome Highlights Vision and Profile Governance Goals Pharmaceutical Employees Environment Society Content Credits the CEO Report Core Values Industry Index Highlights New Medical 17% New organization’s Global Positioning, with the change Affairs Division structure, guaranteeing the scientific of its vision until 2025 a c c ura c y o f the C o m p a ny ’s activities. increase in sales, increasing the Re-launching of the Code of Ethical population’s access Conduct and launching of the to medicines that Anti-Corruption Policy and Awarded as one of the “Best improve their Integrity Program, with the Companies to Work For” quality of life. objective of reinforcing according to the Great Place To Work (GPTW) Barueri and Region 2016 survey. ® ethical culture and engaging employees. Reduction of Launch of 23% in energy consumption 22,928 training h o u rs off ered to all 2 medicines 26% in water consumption levels of the organization. 27% in waste generation Daiichi Sankyo Brasil Sustainability Report 2016/2017 9 Mission, The GRI Message from About the Welcome Highlights Vision and Profile Governance Goals Pharmaceutical Employees Environment Society Content Credits the CEO Report Core Values Industry Index Mission, Vision “I am very proud to say that I work and Core Values in a company that gets off the ground and puts values such as innovation, respect and integrity into practice.” Regis Teixeira Marketing Daiichi Sankyo Brasil Sustainability Report 2016/2017 10 Mission, The GRI Message from About the Welcome Highlights Vision and Profile Governance Goals Pharmaceutical Employees Environment Society Content Credits the CEO Report Core Values Industry Index Mission, Vision and Core Values GRI G4-56 Mission 2025 Vision To contribute to the enrichment of quality of life around the world through Be a global pharma innovator company with competitive advantage the creation of innovative pharmaceuticals, and through the provision of in Oncology. pharmaceuticals addressing diverse medical needs. Core Values and Commitments Innovation Integrity Accountability It is our essence as well as a fundamental requirement aimed at creating It is our strength and a fundamental feature of our character. We always It is our culture. We eagerly accept our duties and honor our commitments innovative medicines that stand out at global level. Each and every employee work so that our activities are done correctly and transparently, in order to with all those who depend on us so that we can provide innovative at Daiichi Sankyo shares this innovation spirit. improve the patients’ health and well-being. medicines for patients all over the world. Commitments: Commitments: Commitments: 1. To create innovative medicines changing the standard of care: 4. To provide the highest quality medical information; 7. To be accountable for achieving our goals; universally applied best treatment practice in today’s medical science; 5. To provide a stable supply of top-quality pharmaceutical; 8. To demonstrate professionalism, respect for others and teamwork. 2. To take a global perspective, and respect regional values; 6. To be an ethical, trusted, and respectful partner. 3. To foster intellectual curiosity and strategic insight. Daiichi Sankyo Brasil Sustainability Report 2016/2017 11 Mission, The GRI Message from About the Welcome Highlights Vision and Profile Governance Goals Pharmaceutical Employees Environment Society Content Credits the CEO Report Core Values Industry Index Profile “Our DNA is innovative and intrinsic in our way of being.” Rodrigo Martins Quality in Pharmacovigilance Daiichi Sankyo Brasil Sustainability Report 2016/2017 12 Mission, The GRI Message from About the Welcome Highlights Vision and Profile Governance Goals Pharmaceutical Employees Environment Society Content Credits the CEO Report Core Values Industry Index Profile Who We Are Products GRI G4-4 Gastroenterology • Lactulona ® (lactulose) Daiichi Sankyo is a global pharmaceutical company, with origin in Innovation is an essential part of Daiichi Sankyo’s values. Its employees • Ezobloc (esomeprazole magnesium) Japan, established in 2005, through the merger of two large Japanese are committed to developing medicines that bring the hope of a healthy pharmaceutical companies, with more than one hundred years of history: life to the patients, with better quality of life. Daiichi and Sankyo. The main products of Daiichi Sankyo Brasil are: Orthopedics and Pain Today, the company has more than 10,000 employees in 20 countries around the world dedicated to the creation and supply of pharmaceuticals • Loxonin® (sodium loxoprofen) to meet various medical needs. • Hirudoid® (mucopolysaccharide polysulfate) Cardiology • Euflexxa® (sodium hyaluronate) In 2006, Daiichi Sankyo was consolidated in Brazil and, since then, has • Daisan (tramadol hydrochloride + paracetamol) • Benicar ® (olmesartan medoxomil) maintained a line of products focused on specialties such as cardiology, • Benicar HCT® psychiatry, neurology, gastroenterology, orthopedics and pain, marketed (olmesartan medoxomil + hydrochlorothiazide) in all regions of the country and also exported to other countries in • BenicarAnlo® (olmesartan medoxomil + amlodipine) New Products Latin America. • Effient® (prasugrel hydrochloride) • Dainitre (propatylnitrate) In 2016, the New Business Department was responsible for establishing two partnerships leading to the launch of Meaning two medicines. Both were approved based on legislation concerning clone medicines, which came into force in Daiichi Sankyo was born from the merger Psychiatry and Neurology 2015. They are: of two Japanese pharmaceutical companies. • Scitalax (escitalopram oxalate) The name Daiichi means “first”. Daisan: launched in partnership with Aché, is part of the Sankyo comes from the word san (three, in Japanese) and kyo pain line; (working together), referring to the fact that the company was Dainitre: launched in partnership with FMQ, strengthens founded by three friends. the cardiology line. Daiichi Sankyo Brasil Sustainability Report 2016/2017 13 Mission, The GRI Message from About the Welcome Highlights Vision and Profile Governance Goals Pharmaceutical Employees Environment Society Content Credits the CEO Report Core Values Industry Index Profile Market Share GRI G4-5 | G4-6 | G4-8 | G4-9 Locations where Daiichi Sankyo Brasil has operations Daiichi Sankyo Brasil produces approximately 15 million packaging units, serving domestic and foreign markets. They are widely used by physicians and patients in clinics, public and private hospitals and physician offices. The company is headquartered in São Paulo, and has a plant in Barueri (SP), which produces the medicines: Benicar®, Benicar HCT®, BenicarAnlo®, Loxonin® and Hirudoid®. In addition to these, the company markets the Production of following imported products: Lactulona®, Effient®, Euflexxa, Ezobloc® and Scitalax and, through local partnerships, the products Daisan 15 million medication packaging units and Dainitre. The promotion of medicines in Brazil is carried out by the Sales Force, and its commercialization is done by distributors and pharmaceutical networks in all Brazilian states. Ex p o rt t o Today, 23% of all production in Brazil is exported and is marketed in 17 Latin American countries. In fiscal year 2016/2017, Daiichi Sankyo Brasil made direct exports to Mexico, Panama, Argentina, Peru, Venezuela, 17 countries Guatemala and Chile. The countries that received only indirect exports by in Latin America Headquarters: licensed companies were Colombia, Ecuador, Costa Rica, Chile, Bolivia, São Paulo, Brazil Paraguay, Uruguay, the Dominican Republic, El Salvador, Honduras, Host country and Nicaragua. Plant: Barueri – São Paulo, Brazil Direct export Indirect export only Daiichi Sankyo Brasil Sustainability Report 2016/2017 14 Mission, The GRI Message from About the Welcome Highlights Vision and Profile Governance Goals Pharmaceutical Employees Environment Society Content Credits the CEO Report Core Values Industry Index Profile Economic Performance Economic Indicators The year 2016 was marked by continued economic and political crisis in Gross Operating Revenue (in millions): Brazil, with a fall of 3.6% in the GDP. The pharmaceutical industry didn’t come out unscathed by the domestic scenario, but because it deals with basic necessities of the population, it was less affected than other sectors. In 2016, it showed a growth of 13%, according to data from the American company IMS Health, representing a decrease in growth compared to what had been recorded in previous years. 332.4 291.9 Despite this scenario, Daiichi Sankyo Brasil managed to overcome the difficulties imposed by the domestic context and reach its sales targets for the year, with a growth of 17%, according to the IMS. 2015/2016 2016/2017 The company maintained strict cost and operating expenses control, Net Operating Revenue (in millions): allowing continued solid investments in the development of new products as well as in the expansion of its activities. Profitability, however, was impacted reached Sales growth by the exchange variation on imported raw materials and declined by 8% 17% over the previous year. 291.4 The medicines of the Benicar® family (which maintained their commercial performance even after the entry of generics medicines in the market), 260.7 Loxonin e Euflexxa, were the main products responsible for the good performance of the company. 2015/2016 2016/2017 Another advantage that favored Daiichi Sankyo Brasil sustainable growth amid a context of national recession was the exports to Latin America. In Net Operating 2016, exports were impacted by the poor economic performance of some 76.9% Revenue Breakdown 23.1% Latin American countries, such as Venezuela, which was mitigated by the Brazil Export increase in sales to other regions, such as Mexico and Central America. Daiichi Sankyo Brasil Sustainability Report 2016/2017 15 Mission, The GRI Message from About the Welcome Highlights Vision and Profile Governance Goals Pharmaceutical Employees Environment Society Content Credits the CEO Report Core Values Industry Index Governance “The respect among teams and the harmony of people contribute to our success.” Emanoelle Nishimura Financial Daiichi Sankyo Brasil Sustainability Report 2016/2017 16 Mission, The GRI Message from About the Welcome Highlights Vision and Profile Governance Goals Pharmaceutical Employees Environment Society Content Credits the CEO Report Core Values Industry Index Governance Structure GRI G4-34 | G4-38 | G4-39 The Corporate Governance of Daiichi Sankyo Brasil reflects a transparent and ethical stance in the relationship with all stakeholders, promoting business In addition to the Executive Committee, the company has a governance sustainability and generating long-term value. model structured in committees, responsible for defining the strategy and actions in order to ensure a smooth operation and performance, The company governance structure is formed by the Board of Directors, the organization’s highest body, and by the Executive Committee. The President aligned with the best corporate practices. They are: New Business is the professional who represents the company legally and is member of both: the Board and the Committee. Committee, LRR Committee (Launch Readiness Review), Labor Committee, S&OP Committee, Crisis Management Committee and Ethical In addition to the President, the Board of Directors includes two other employees of the organization, who hold executive position in Japan. Conduct Committee. The Executive Committee is composed of the President plus six directors, organized according to the organization chart: New Global Positioning On March 31st, 2016, the CEO of Daiichi Sankyo announced changes in the organization’s Global Positioning. Following the sale of its stake in Ranbaxy an Indian generic President pharmaceutical company to Sun Pharma, the organization decided to move away from the hybrid model and focus on innovative business. After that, a five year Business Plan and a new Vision was elaborated, proposing that by 2025 the Daiichi Sankyo group should ”be a global pharma innovator company with competitive advantage in oncology”. To achieve this goal, an intense and planned cultural transformation in the business structure will be necessary, Regulatory Medical Industrial Marketing Human focusing on the development of new lines of medicines, Financial Affairs Affairs Operations and Sales Resources Director LATAM without leaving aside current lines and company’s products. Director Director Director Director Director Daiichi Sankyo Brasil Sustainability Report 2016/2017 17 Mission, The GRI Message from About the Welcome Highlights Vision and Profile Governance Goals Pharmaceutical Employees Environment Society Content Credits the CEO Report Core Values Industry Index Governance Close management and open dialogue GRI G4-49 Ethics and Transparency The company seeks to maintain and strengthen a culture of alignment of Daiichi Sankyo Brasil conducts its business in an ethical and socially responsible manner, always attentive to the transparency of its actions all employees with its strategy, goal, governance and principles. In this and the fulfillment of their legal obligations. During fiscal year 2016/2017, one of the organization’s focus was to further strengthen the issues of sense, the Daiichi Sankyo Brasil employees have some contact channels Compliance, Ethics and Anti-Corruption among its employees. with the organization’s top management. They are: The main body to deliberate on these topics is the Ethical Conduct Committee, composed of three members of the Executive Committee: Presidency, HR Department and Financial Department. The Committee is responsible for analyzing and judging complaints and reports of suspicious behavior, made through the official communication channels, and promoting awareness and engagement initiatives for the internal DOAR Group (Objectives and Results Analysis public on the subject, so that each employee become a multiplier of an ethical, fair and responsible culture. Disseminators Team): meeting of leaders from different areas with the President and senior management, in order to analyze and share the results, strategies and objectives Code of Conduct of Daiichi Sankyo Brasil and at the same time, collect GRI G4-56 comments and suggestions; In September 2016, Daiichi Sankyo Brasil relaunched its Code of Ethical Conduct, a formalization of ethical and moral principles that guide decision-making and actions taken by employees. Dialogue with the President: once every six months, the President and Executive Committee managers present the The Code of Ethical Conduct is delivered on the admission day of each new employee, who undertakes to follow the principles, norms and standards company’s results to all employees, in order to ensure the of behavior established in the document. It’s also disclosed to employees who already belong to the company and is available online, so that it can be transparency of management; used as a source for consultation and reference on the topics covered. The document follows the principles of the Global Code of Conduct and the Company’s Principles of Individual Conduct. Among the topics covered we Coffee with the President: held twice a year, the mention: compliance with legislation, respect for diversity, conflict of interest prevention, promotion of good practices in relationships with colleagues, event aims to bring the President and employees closer company property, suppliers, government, patients, among many other stakeholders with which business representatives interact in their daily routine. together. At each meeting, 15 employees are invited to a conversation about various topics such as day-to-day The Compliance area, together with the Ethics Committee and the Executive Committee, is responsible for monitoring the implementation of the Code routine and company strategy. of Ethical Conduct. The lack of adherence to any Code guideline is sent to the Ethical Conduct Committee, which analyzes the case and applies the disciplinary actions provided by law, which may vary from verbal warning to fair dismissal. Daiichi Sankyo Brasil Sustainability Report 2016/2017 18 Mission, The GRI Message from About the Welcome Highlights Vision and Profile Governance Goals Pharmaceutical Employees Environment Society Content Credits the CEO Report Core Values Industry Index Governance Conflict of Interests Communication Channels GRI G4-41 GRI G4-58 After re-launching the Code, 100% of the employees went through Daiichi Sankyo Brasil’s Code of Ethical Conduct points out the main face-to-face training on the subject, including different stakeholders Daiichi Sankyo Brasil’s Code of Ethical Conduct states that all situations in which conflicts of interest may occur and describes what should be the direction to be taken in each one of them. They are: from the administrative office, the plant and the sales force. employees must report practices that are contrary to what is proposed in the document. To do so, they rely on the following The company’s leadership also went through lectures for communication channels: awareness-raising and engagement on ethical dilemmas such as: Parallel Gifts and Direct Contact: employees may contact their immediate corruption, moral and sexual harassment. Activities Presents superior to report situations that should be analyzed by the Compliance area; Also, in September 2016, the Global Marketing Code was launched, Business developed by the parent company with guidelines to orient the Meals Confidential Channel: complaints can be made actions of the subsidiaries when interacting with healthcare Relatives of confidentially by calling 0800-741-0023 or through the professionals. And in March 2017, the new version of the Interfarma Employees website www.canalconfidencial.com.br/daiichisankyo. The Code of Conduct revision 2016 — , which goes deeper into relations Events and information is received by an independent company and Hospitality between industry, physicians and other healthcare professionals, transmitted directly to the Presidency and the Compliance came into force. area, who call the Ethics Committee to investigate the case report; Affective relationship Free Samples Based on these two new documents, the Promotion Practice Guide between employees and Test Products was updated, which guides all areas of business and interaction Compliance Department email: in case of doubt, with healthcare professionals. All of them underwent training on the employees can also use the email compliance@dsbr.com.br Upon hiring, all employees must inform the organization if there is any conflict changes related to the theme. of interest, which will be evaluated by the Compliance department. Daiichi Sankyo Brasil Sustainability Report 2016/2017 19 Mission, The GRI Message from About the Welcome Highlights Vision and Profile Governance Goals Pharmaceutical Employees Environment Society Content Credits the CEO Report Core Values Industry Index Governance Anti-Corruption Commitments GRI G4-SO4 GRI G4-15 In addition to the new Code of Ethical Conduct, Daiichi Sankyo Brasil also prepared in 2016 a new Anti-Corruption Policy and a The continued focus on ethics and anti-corruption are reflected in the commitments of new Integrity Program, to be implemented throughout fiscal year 2017/2018. Both reinforce the company’s compliance with Law which the organization is a signatory: No. 12.846 / 2013, also known as the Anti-Corruption Law or Clean Company Law, which came into force in 2014. • Since 2010, the company is a signatory to the Global Compact, an initiative of the The Policy was approved on December 2016 and establishes Anti-Corruption guidelines within the company, clarifying concepts United Nations (UN) to mobilize the business community to adopt principles that related to the topic, pointing out areas that represent greater risks, presenting measures to prevent corruption, defending integrity reflect core values in the areas of human rights, labor relations, environment and and instructing on how to report violations of those kinds. Until March 2017, 100% of the employees went through in-person training anti-corruption; on the subject. • As a member of the Pharmaceutical Research & Development Companies The Integrity Program was created based on the Anti-Corruption Policy and Code of Ethical Conduct. It defines a robust plan communication Association (Interfarma), Daiichi Sankyo Brasil follows the Interfarma Code of and engagement of employees based on five pillars, whose implementation will be the responsibility of the Compliance area: Conduct, a document that governs the daily practice of the pharmaceutical industry. This document underwent a review during 2015 and 2016, being re-launched in March 2017. Integrity Program Daiichi Sankyo Brasil Code of Ethical Conduct, Top Management Training and Monitoring Applicable Policies and Hotline Support Communication and Auditing Legislation Daiichi Sankyo Brasil Sustainability Report 2016/2017 20 Mission, The GRI Message from About the Welcome Highlights Vision and Profile Governance Goals Pharmaceutical Employees Environment Society Content Credits the CEO Report Core Values Industry Index Governance Relationship with Suppliers The main tool to ensure that suppliers and service providers follow GRI G4-12 the legal and commercial guidelines and practices required by Daiichi Sankyo Brasil is the contract. After reformulating its Code of Ethical Daiichi Sankyo Brasil maintains a continuous focus on the ethical conduct Conduct, the organization has adapted a new clause describing its of suppliers that relate to the company, seeking to ensure the extension commitment to ethical and anti-corruption conduct, pointing out the of its values, principles and commitments on the subject to its chain. key points of the Code that impact the suppliers and requiring their Therefore, it prioritizes local suppliers, selected according to their technical prior knowledge of these obligations. quality, values and social and environmental responsibility. The contractor also needs to be aware of the organization’s commitment Today, the company has 8,430 suppliers, of which 3,942 are service to the Global Compact, recognizing its commitment to the defense of providers. During fiscal year 2016/2017, R$ 134.4 million were spent with citizenship and the principles proposed in the document (described on these suppliers. page 20). Suppliers by type The 1% 1% company has 8,430 1% 2% 2% 1% 5% suppliers 16% 47% The changes to the clauses of the document took place in the second half of 2016. Since then, it has been presented to every new supplier, as well 24% as to the old ones when the contract is renewed. The organization believes that, in addition to guaranteeing the understanding of the practices that are not accepted by Daiichi Sankyo Brasil, the document also acts as a way to present the best practices of the market, helping to raise awareness of its productive chain. Service Provider Packaging material Fixed assets Freelance Consumables Laboratory Supplies In addition to the clauses added to the contract, the company also Other Marketing material evaluates the registration information of all suppliers, in search of possible Raw material Maintenance equipment risks of corruption. Daiichi Sankyo Brasil Sustainability Report 2016/2017 21 Mission, The GRI Message from About the Welcome Highlights Vision and Profile Governance Goals Pharmaceutical Employees Environment Society Content Credits the CEO Report Core Values Industry Index Goals “Investment in planning allows employees to have a better quality of life and well-being.” Marcelo Neves Operational Effectiveness Daiichi Sankyo Brasil Sustainability Report 2016/2017 22 Mission, The GRI Message from About the Welcome Highlights Vision and Profile Governance Goals Pharmaceutical Employees Environment Society Content Credits the CEO Report Core Values Industry Index Goals 2016 goals Commitment Commitments made in 2016 What was done Status Expand the product portfolio through partnerships, licenses, extension of lines and acquisition of new products The company launched two products through partnerships Create and implement an Integrity Program The Integrity Program was developed throughout 2016 and was implemented in 2017 Disseminate the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact The organization focused on environmental change and anti-corruption principle Elaborate a program for development and improvement of competences of the organization leaderships Leadership has gone through a series of trainings, as can be seen on page 33 Recycling: maintain or reduce to 0.2357 (kg) waste / thousand units produced The company reduced its waste generation to 0.2028 (kg) / thousand units produced Despite efforts to reduce waste generated in the production process, the value reached 0.0787 (kg) Incineration / coprocessing: maintain or reduce to 0.0716 (kg) waste / thousand units produced waste / thousand units produced Water: maintain or reduce to 0.0531 m³ / thousand units produced The company reduced its water consumption to 0.0412 m³ / thousand units produced Energy: maintain or reduce to 0.0291 MWh / thousand units produced The company reduced its energy consumption to 0.0265 MWh / thousand units produced 2017 goals Commitments made in 2017 Expand the product portfolio through partnerships, licenses, expansion of distribution and acquisition of new products To continue the leadership development plan in order to support them in managing teams (Leader Coach and Mentoring) Global Compact Support a precautionary approach Water: keep consumption below 0.0467 m³ / thousand units produced to environmental challenges Energy: keep consumption below 0.0269 MWh / thousand units produced Anti-Corruption Implement the training plan for the year 2017 through the Integrity Program Daiichi Sankyo Brasil Sustainability Report 2016/2017 23 Mission, The GRI Message from About the Welcome Highlights Vision and Profile Governance Goals Pharmaceutical Employees Environment Society Content Credits the CEO Report Core Values Industry Index The Pharmaceutical “Daiichi Sankyo values innovation Industry and the health sector needs this innovation.” Danilo Lopes Medical Affairs Daiichi Sankyo Brasil Sustainability Report 2016/2017 24 Mission, The GRI Message from About the Welcome Highlights Vision and Profile Governance Goals Pharmaceutical Employees Environment Society Content Credits the CEO Report Core Values Industry Index The Pharmaceutical Industry Regulatory Agencies GRI G4-PR2 | G4-PR4 | G4-PR9 Daiichi Sankyo Brasil considers essential to maintain a quality, In Brazil, Daiichi Sankyo interacts directly with the National Sanitary Daiichi Sankyo Brasil submits its operations to the rules of effectiveness and safety assurance system of its products, in Surveillance Agency (Anvisa). In 2016, the agency was accepted as a the regulatory agencies of the countries in which it operates, accordance with the laws and regulations of the countries where it member of the International Conference on Harmonization of Technical such as: operates. Therefore, the careful evaluation of regulations and the technical Requirements for Registration of Pharmaceuticals for Human Use – Brazil planning of how to best serve them are fundamental to the organization’s ICH, an organization that brings together the world’s leading regulatory growth strategy in Latin America. agencies seeking to create common technical guides. The trend is for Anvisa to harmonize its rules with the main international agencies, which National Sanitary Surveillance Agency (ANVISA) Registration of 2 new brings benefits to Brazilian companies. Daiichi Sankyo already follows these guides in other countries. medicines in Colombia A quality audit, conducted in 2016 by a specialized consulting firm, found One of the company’s challenges is the diversity of regulations among the various countries for which it exports, each one requiring different that the Daiichi Sankyo Brasil plant in Barueri already adheres to the standards proposed by the main international authorities, such as the Colombia technical standards for the approval of new medicines. In order to American (FDA) and the European (EMA). Instituto Nacional de Vigilancia de Medicamentos y Alimentos (INVIMA) deal with this diversity, Daiichi Sankyo has local consultants in some countries, who provide support to the submission of new medicines in This result is a reflection of the operational quality of the company, which accordance with local legislation. In other countries, the organization follows the strictest global manufacturing practices and is prepared for operates through partner companies. regulatory advances in search of greater international standardization. In 2016, these efforts led to the approval of the registration of two new As a consequence of its commitment to local laws in the last fiscal year, Mexico Comisión Federal para la Protección medicines in Colombia, for the first time. the organization has not been fined for noncompliance with laws and contra Riesgos Sanitarios (COFEPRIS) regulations regarding information, labeling, use and supply of its products, nor regarding the impact of products on patient’s health and safety. Daiichi Sankyo Brasil Sustainability Report 2016/2017 25 Mission, The GRI Message from About the Welcome Highlights Vision and Profile Governance Goals Pharmaceutical Employees Environment Society Content Credits the CEO Report Core Values Industry Index The Pharmaceutical Industry Brazilian Legislation Membership in Associations GRI G4-16 In 2016, some changes in Brazilian legislation and Anvisa regulations Daiichi Sankyo actively participates in the discussion and proposal of public affected Daiichi Sankyo’s operations in the country. They are: policies that contribute to the development of the pharmaceutical sector. • In April 2016, Anvisa published a Resolution changing the requirements for post-registration changes to synthetic drugs (RDC 73/2016), which are those made after it was released in the market. The main change is greater corporate accountability, requiring more rigorous presentation of Daiichi Sankyo Brasil ranked 1st in the risk analysis and critical analysis to support the proposed changes; To this end, the company is a member of Interfarma, an association that TOP Credinfar Award, which recognizes represents Brazilian and foreign companies and researchers responsible the pharmaceutical companies that • The Agency has also revised the Marketing Authorization Transfer of for promoting the development of the scientific and technological research participated and contributed the most to Ownership (TO) of medicinal products. TO is an administrative procedure industry in Brazil, especially for the production of pharmaceutical inputs, the Association of Credit and Collection to change the registration holder of a product in which it is not necessary Professionals of Pharmaceutical and raw materials, medicines and related. Related Industries (Credinfar), through to present again all the evidence that assures its quality, effectiveness the presence in meetings, suggestions, and safety. From the changes, TO applications must be simultaneously One of the Association’s main activities is to establish a constant channel attendance and provision of information. filed by successor and predecessor companies, within 180 days; of communication among the society, the pharmaceutical sector and federal, state and municipal governments. Daiichi Sankyo participates • In December 2016, Law No. 13411 was published, which changes in 11 Interfarma committees with the aim of discussing industry issues. Anvisa’s deadlines for the issuance of its final opinion on the market authorizations and establishes penalties if they are not complied with. The new deadlines are 120 days for the approval of registration of priority medicines and 365 days for ordinary medicines. The changes should bring greater predictability to the approval of new products and to the business of Daiichi Sankyo Brasil. The company also maintains a partnership with Sindusfarma, the Pharmaceutical Industry Union, whose role is to defend the causes of this industry in the State of São Paulo, providing services to its associates. Daiichi Sankyo Brasil Sustainability Report 2016/2017 26 Mission, The GRI Message from About the Welcome Highlights Vision and Profile Governance Goals Pharmaceutical Employees Environment Society Content Credits the CEO Report Core Values Industry Index The Pharmaceutical Industry Relations with Healthcare Professionals Daiichi Sankyo Brasil recognizes the importance of disseminating scientifically proven information about its products to healthcare Medical Affairs Division Medical Scientific Liaison (MSL): masters and doctors professionals: that is, those who are qualified to prescribe or dispense in medical science make up the team of consultants and medicines, including doctors, dentists and pharmacists. During the fiscal year 2016/2017, the Medical Affairs Division was restructured, medical managers who work in relationships with researchers, with the objective of ensuring technical-scientific accuracy and quality of professors and other opinion leaders in the medical field, Thus, when presenting its products to healthcare professionals, the the organizational activities with the external public (physicians and other discussing and sharing scientific and therapeutic updates company plays an important role of disseminating knowledge to the healthcare professionals) and internal (marketing, commercial, new business in a reactive way. They have deep knowledge about the medical community. Therefore, it promotes the Continued Medical and regulatory). molecules, the diseases they fight against, and the treatment Education Program, bringing knowledge about diseases, innovative areas involved. During fiscal year 2016/2017, the department medicines and different types of treatments to these professionals. The The change follows the Daiichi Sankyo’s global strategy, strengthening its conducted more than 600 interactions with opinion leaders three pillars that guide this relationship are: image as a benchmark company to the scientific and medical community. in cardiology, neurology, vascular surgery, angiology and The activities of the Medical Affairs Division include three main areas: psychiatry, as well as participating in more than 15 continued • Expansion of Daiichi Sankyo’s medicines promotion; medical education events; • Expansion of Daiichi Sankyo’s institutional knowledge; • Expansion of relationships and sharing of scientific information Medical Information: ensures that the information provided Clinical Research: works in the execution of scientific to healthcare professionals. to physicians in promotional materials or in demand to studies carried out with new or established molecules of requests for information is scientifically accurate, with clear Daiichi Sankyo in Brazil, seeking partnerships with universities, bibliographical references and complying with Brazilian laboratories and service providers, in order to guarantee The Promotional Practice Guide — created from the Global Marketing Code standards. It also contributes to the new business area good practices in clinical research. In 2016, it sought to and the Interfarma Code of Conduct revision 2016 — establishes the in the scientific validation of new products and medicines consolidate its structure, ensured the implementation and principles and guidelines that must be followed by employees who interact opportunities. In 2016, more than 1,500 requests for execution of clinical trials in progress, as well as assisted with healthcare professionals, medical institutions and patient organizations. scientific information were addressed, over 100 promotional in the regulatory activities of the international multi-center This relationship must be conducted in an ethical, responsible and integral materials were analyzed and 42 new business opportunities studies to be initiated in Brazil. manner, always prioritizing the interest in bringing the safest and most were evaluated; efficient treatments to the patients. The company’s representatives are committed to establish relationships that are free of guidance, guaranteeing autonomy to the professional in the prescription of medicines. Daiichi Sankyo Brasil Sustainability Report 2016/2017 27 Mission, The GRI Message from About the Welcome Highlights Vision and Profile Governance Goals Pharmaceutical Employees Environment Society Content Credits the CEO Report Core Values Industry Index The Pharmaceutical Industry Sales Force The daily relation with the Brazilian medical profession is responsibility The deep knowledge about the diseases, the treatments and the of the Sales Force, formed by trainee sales promoters, sales Daiichi Sankyo’s products are essential to the good performance of representatives and hospital consultants who visit doctors’ offices, sales representatives. Therefore, the company conducts periodic hospitals, clinics and pharmacies to bring updated scientific training through the University of Daiichi Sankyo (UDS Brazil). In 2016, information about Daiichi Sankyo Brasil products. the University has gone through a reformulation, receiving a new layout, a more convenient way to be used by the sales representatives. To do so, they have materials developed by the Marketing area, with the support of the Medical Affairs and Regulatory Affairs areas and a Also, the Sales Force area has the Talent Pool, developed in partnership guideline outlined for each product of the company. The relation with with HR intended to the development of internal talents and the formation the health care professional must be based on ethics and transparency, of new leaders. limited to imparting knowledge about the product and its therapeutic area, leaving to the doctor the final decision on which product to In 2016, the Field Trip project began, in which the Executive Committee prescribe to patients. and managers of Daiichi Sankyo Brasil were able to follow the work of sales representatives in loco. The objective was to learn the day-to-day As of October 2016, Daiichi Sankyo Brasil changed its Sales Force of the team and observe, in practice, how the work of their area impacts strategy. The promotional cycle, which was only one month, now lasts the relation with the doctors, watching the relations between the field three months, allowing for an expansion in the medical register and the work and the internal activities of the other areas, aiming at process implementation of more effective targeting and segmentation actions. improvement and increased productivity. The project will continue throughout 2017, with the inclusion of other employees. At the same time, the sales representatives are offered a new system The Field Trip project led of support, administration and management of their visits. Installed in a tablet, the new tool has a database of professionals to be visited, managers to follow the Sales making communication with other areas of the company easier while Force work visiting doctors’ supporting the efficiency of its day-to-day operation. offices, hospitals, clinics and pharmacies. Daiichi Sankyo Brasil Sustainability Report 2016/2017 28 Mission, The GRI Message from About the Welcome Highlights Vision and Profile Governance Goals Pharmaceutical Employees Environment Society Content Credits the CEO Report Core Values Industry Index The Pharmaceutical Industry Events As part of its relationship with healthcare professionals, Daiichi Sankyo Brasil pays special attention to its participation in medical events and to the Continued Medical Education Program. This program was built by the company based on meetings between physicians and specialists from different areas, with the support of different medical societies, to promote knowledge on various topics related to the day to day of specialists. In 2016, the company participated in 110 events, 90 of which were domestic and 20 international, including Congresses, Sponsorships, Launches and Daiichi Sankyo Brasil Events. The main domestic and foreign congresses in which the organization was present were: • Congresso Brasileiro de Cardiologia — CBC • Congresso Brasileiro de Psiquiatria — CBP (Brazilian Congress of Cardiology) (Brazilian Congress of Psychiatry) During fiscal year 2016/2017, • Congresso Paulista de Cardiologia — SOCESP • Congresso Americano de Psiquiatria (American Daiichi Sankyo Brasil received two (São Paulo Congress of Cardiology) Psychiatric Association — APA) awards result of its partnership with medical societies: • Congresso Europeu de Cardiologia — (ESC • Congresso Semana Brasileira do Aparelho European Congress of Cardiology) Digestivo — SBAD (Congress of the Brazilian • Prêmio Empresarial da Sociedade Brasileira Digestive System Week) • Congresso Americano de Cardiologia (American de Cardiologia (Brazilian Congress of Cardiology Business Award), in the category: College of Cardiology — ACC — and American • Congresso Americano de Gastrenterologia Traditional Satellite Symposiums, Special Heart Association — AHA) (Digestive Disease Week — DDW) Activities and Debate Guidelines; • Congresso da Sociedade de Cardiologia do Rio • Congresso Brasileiro de Ortopedia — CBOT • Certificado de Apoio Científico da Associação Brasileira de Psiquiatria (Brazilian Association Grande do Sul — SOCERGS (Congress of Rio (Brazilian Congress of Orthopedics) of Psychiatry Supporter Certificate), which Grande do Sul Cardiology Society) recognizes its main sponsors and partners. • Congresso da Sociedade de Cardiologia do Rio de Participation in Janeiro — SOCERJ (Congress of Rio de Janeiro Cardiology Society) 110 medical events Daiichi Sankyo Brasil Sustainability Report 2016/2017 29 Mission, The GRI Message from About the Welcome Highlights Vision and Profile Governance Goals Pharmaceutical Employees Environment Society Content Credits the CEO Report Core Values Industry Index Employees “I am very happy to be part of this family.” Belarmina Martins Quality Control Daiichi Sankyo Brasil Sustainability Report 2016/2017 30 Mission, The GRI Message from About the Welcome Highlights Vision and Profile Governance Goals Pharmaceutical Employees Environment Society Content Credits the CEO Report Core Values Industry Index Employees Profile GRI G4-10 Each Daiichi Sankyo Brasil employee is considered an important Plant and headquarters employees are located in the State of São In addition to its own employees, which include those with an indefinite fullresource for sustainable business growth in the short, medium and Paulo, but the sales force is distributed throughout the country: time contract and trainees, Daiichi Sankyo Brasil also has 74 outsourced long term. Therefore, the company seeks to offer an attractive work employees. Thus, the total number of Daiichi Sankyo Brasil employees environment where everyone is able to demonstrate their talent and can be broken down as follows: develop themselves as professionals. Employees in the country Employees by type of contract The organization values the diversity of its employees, considering the differences as a source of learning and also a competitive advantage. On March 31st, 2017, the company had 389 employees, distributed RR AP as follows: 16% Employees by gender AM PA MA CE RN 2% PI PB PE AC RO TO SE AL 82% BA MT DF 42% GO MG 58% MS ES Integral Full Time Estagiários Intern Terceirizados Third-Party SP RJ PR States with employees SC RS Masculino Male Feminino Female Daiichi Sankyo Brasil Sustainability Report 2016/2017 31 Mission, The GRI Message from About the Welcome Highlights Vision and Profile Governance Goals Pharmaceutical Employees Environment Society Content Credits the CEO Report Core Values Industry Index Employees Career GRI G4-EC5 | G4-LA11 To this end, it has the following programs: Daiichi Sankyo Brasil recognizes that the dedication of employees is Leadership School: aims to develop and enhance the essential key for the excellence of their products, so it seeks to engage them management and leadership skills in hired and newly promoted managers; through respect for their ideals, recognition for their performance and successive training. Dinergic Employee: seeks to improve the communication of the Daiichi Sankyo employees with their superiors, peers and customers; In view of the valuation of employees, the organization’s salaries are substantially higher than the local minimum wage, and the lowest Building and Developing Careers: covers the entire leadership of the compensation paid by Daiichi Sankyo Brasil is 65% higher than the organization for development and training in the following aspects career minimum wage. concept, identification of the responsibilities of those involved (managers and employees) in the training and preparation process of Individual From the compensation point of view, the company seeks to recognize Development Plan (PDI) for company employees; employees’ dedication, rewarding individual merit when evaluating their behaviors and results. Internship Program: aims at cultural integration and learning the organizational context, facilitating the professional development of The performance evaluation is done according to goals related to the each trainee; organization objectives, while the competencies assessment follows Daiichi Sankyo Brasil was recognized Daiichi Sankyo global model. In the period covered by the Report, Re-launch of the Integration Program: the Institutional Integration as one of the “Best Places to Work”, 100% of employees received this type of evaluation. encompasses the new employees with the objective of receiving them, according to the Great Place To Work® providing a smooth adaptation and understanding of the processes, HR (GPTW) Barueri and Region 2016 The company is attentive to the development of skills necessary for management philosophy and organizational culture. research. In the 2nd edition of the Award, the its success in the long term, besides prioritizing the formation of company ranked 6th in the medium-sized future leaders able to guide the teams in the execution of its strategic category, among 67 enrolled companies. 100% objectives, reinforcing the high performance culture. From the result, the HR department held conversations with each board, setting up an action plan in order to improve the of employees points raised, focusing on communication, management and career plan. received performance evaluation Daiichi Sankyo Brasil Sustainability Report 2016/2017 32 Mission, The GRI Message from About the Welcome Highlights Vision and Profile Governance Goals Pharmaceutical Employees Environment Society Content Credits the CEO Report Core Values Industry Index Employees Training GRI G4-LA9 | G4-LA10 University of Daiichi Sankyo (UDS Brazil): dedicated to train the Sales Force employees, presents weekly content on an online distance International Training: employees of the organization also participate in courses and immersions held outside the country. In 2017, for example, a learning platform; Customer Service / Pharmacovigilance employee underwent training at In addition to programs to engage and develop the career of employees, the head office in Japan, in order to better understand the procedures Daiichi Sankyo Brasil also conducts training to develop its talents in order National Sales Meeting: during fiscal year 2016/2017, two meetings were performed in the country and also share the Brazilian reality with them. to contribute to the current and future challenges of the organization. held, bringing together Sales Force employees to exchange information, During fiscal year 2016/2017, some of these trainings were implemented receive training and learn about the company results. The first meeting took In addition to these, training on the topic of Ethics were applied throughout as follows: place in April 2016, in an unprecedented virtual format, being transmitted 2016, described on page 19 and Environmental, on page 35. live via web meeting to the whole country. The second happened in March Educational Training Program: aims to provide the professional 2017 in the city of Santos SP; In total, 22,928 hours of training were carried out, an average of 59 hours development and improve the knowledge of the employee for the exercise per employee. of their current role or for future challenges that require specialized Employees undertook technical training; 22,928 hours Hours of training by functional category Continued Education Program: aims to train, recycle and develop of training 1% employees who need knowledge and specific technical improvement to 2% 7% District Managers Course, Training Course for New Employees, 3% develop their activities in the short and medium term; and Training Program for the launch of Dainitre: intended to the 5% 5% Sales Force; Language Educational Incentive Program: provides foreign language learning (English, Spanish or Japanese), aiming to improve the short and Self-development: the HR area seeks partnerships for undergraduate, medium term performance; graduate and MBA courses, offering incentives to employees in lines of succession and their families; Christmas game: held in December, presents questions on specific topics of the organization, such as the current Sustainability Report, 77% Job Rotation: professional development tool consisting in the exchange products, Code of Ethical Conduct and corporate branding. All employees of employees between the various areas of the organization. During the can answer and compete for a prize a day; year 2016, three employees went through the experience; Meeting on Quality: annually held, this year the event was entitled Self-knowledge project: using the Insights tool, seeks to enhance Operational Administrative Sales Force ‘Speaking about Quality’ and brought together employees to reflect on employee self-knowledge. From a questionnaire and a workshop, they Coordinator Sales Force Manager Manager the importance of assertive communication in the corporate environment; can get to know each other better and identify personal and professional Executive Committee improvement points; Daiichi Sankyo Brasil Sustainability Report 2016/2017 33 Mission, The GRI Message from About the Welcome Highlights Vision and Profile Governance Goals Pharmaceutical Employees Environment Society Content Credits the CEO Report Core Values Industry Index Environment “Counting 39 years in the company, I am very proud to be working at Daiichi Sankyo.” Antonio Uzeda Sales Force Daiichi Sankyo Brasil Sustainability Report 2016/2017 34 Mission, The GRI Message from About the Welcome Highlights Vision and Profile Governance Goals Pharmaceutical Employees Environment Society Content Credits the CEO Report Core Values Industry Index Environment Environmental Management Energy and Emissions GRI G4-14 | G4-EN31 GRI G4-EN3 | G4-EN5 | G4-EN6 | G4-EN15 | G4-EN21 | G4-EN30 Daiichi Sankyo Brasil expresses its concern for the environment in its One of the focuses of the Environmental Management System is the Thus, energy consumption within the organization was 48,807 GJ in daily operation, seeking process optimization to reduce the use of natural reduction of energy consumption and, consequently, CO ² emission, one fiscal year 2016/2017, 23% lower than in the previous year. resources and employee training and qualification to reduce the waste. of the gases that contribute to global warming. Among the measures This year, R$ 680 thousand were invested in projects to improve taken in fiscal year 2016/2017 to reduce the impact of its operations in production processes. this aspect, it is possible to highlight: Energy consumption (GJ) R$ 680 thousand were • Acquisition of a new compressed air generator equipment for the plant, leading to a drop in electric power consumption. As a result, invested to improve production processes -23% it’s estimated that there should be a calculated reduction of 87 tons The organization environmental activities follow the guidelines established in CO² emissions; in the Global Environmental Management Policy, which was relaunched during 2016. In Brazil, 100% of employees went through global online • The company invested in a project in the Free Energy Market, in 63,231 training on the subject, focusing on how their effort could help reduce which it was possible to negotiate directly with the generators. It was impacts and risks to the environment. stipulated that all contracted energy sources would be renewable, 48,807 eliminating CO² emissions in the generation of electric power used in At its plant, Daiichi Sankyo Brasil applies an Environmental Management the plant; System, based on the ISO 14001 methodology, which continuously monitors water and energy consumption, waste and effluent generation and • Changes in the location of the Datacenter, which increased information the emission of smoke. In February 2017, the organization underwent an security and led to a 60% reduction in the electric power consumption audit process to maintain the ISO 14001 certification, obtaining maximum by the device; 2015/2016 2016/2017 score, rising to level 5 in the evaluation and proving the efficiency of its environmental management. • Installation of UVC lamps in the plant’s air conditioning system, reducing the electrical consumption of the equipment by approximately 20%. The organization also has a Kaizen area, which promotes actions for continuous process improvement, waste reduction, stimulating the analytical view of routines and leading to constant improvements in environmental indicators. Daiichi Sankyo Brasil Sustainability Report 2016/2017 35 Mission, The GRI Message from About the Welcome Highlights Vision and Profile Governance Goals Pharmaceutical Employees Environment Society Content Credits the CEO Report Core Values Industry Index Environment By maintaining the plant’s steam systems and electrical generators, the The energy intensity of the Daiichi Sankyo plant was 0.08600 GJ As a result of these efforts the organization achieved a 29% reduction in company was able to reduce the use of energy generated from diesel per thousand units produced (pills and tubes), 9% lower than the CO² emissions: by 551 GJ and generated by LPG by 83 GJ. The fuel used by the Sales previous year. Force team generated a consumption of 26,726 GJ of energy, 32% lower than the previous year. Energy intensity (GJ per thousand units produced) CO² Emissions (in tons) Energy consumption by source (GJ) -9% -29% 0.09480 1,332 40% 0.08600 946 53% 5% 2% 2015/2016 2016/2017 2015/2016 2016/2017 Eletricity (Plant) Gasoline (Sales Force) Ethanol (Sales Force) Non-renewable fuels LPG and Diesel (Plant) Daiichi Sankyo Brasil Sustainability Report 2016/2017 36 Mission, The GRI Message from About the Welcome Highlights Vision and Profile Governance Goals Pharmaceutical Employees Environment Society Content Credits the CEO Report Core Values Industry Index Environment One of the factors that helped reduce emissions was the increase in ethanol consumption in Sales Force vehicles, reducing gasoline usage by Waste GRI G4-EN23 The process of incineration and coprocessing of discarded materials in pharmaceutical production is one of the main challenges to reduce 4,739 GJ. Throughout the year, the CO² emission by source was as follows: the environmental impact of Daiichi Sankyo Brasil operations, since the Daiichi Sankyo Brasil follows the requirements of the National Solid burning of the waste emits CO² into the atmosphere. CO² emission by source Waste Policy, seeking to increasingly reduce the solid waste and residues generation throughout its production chain. Unfortunately, this is a necessary procedure because incinerated wastes are those that came in contact with materials used to produce the In all, Daiichi Sankyo Brasil generated 122 tons of waste, 27% lower than medicines, and which cannot be sent to landfill or recycled. the previous year. The generation of waste was divided as follows: 15% Therefore, the organization invests in operational improvements to reduce this indicator, which consist of reducing the amount of materials that 48% Waste (in tons) come into contact with the product. 37% -27% Packaging 84.7 To reduce the disposal of materials used in Stationary combustion Mobile Combustion (boiler and generators) (Sales Force vehicles) 56.9 medicines packaging, the organization is implementing Kaizen projects (continuous Plant energy 68.1 improvement), seeking to standardize processes consumption 46.8 in order to reduce waste from boxes, aluminum, packing boxes and paper for package insert 14 18.2 during production. Due to plant characteristics, SOx and NOx emissions from the organization are low and occasional and, therefore, reporting to 2015/2016 2016/2017 environmental agencies is not required. Nevertheless, since N2O is one of the NOx components, it is possible to estimate the emission of this Coprocessing/Incineration Recyclable Landfill pollutant as 12.08 tons in the period. Daiichi Sankyo Brasil Sustainability Report 2016/2017 37 Mission, The GRI Message from About the Welcome Highlights Vision and Profile Governance Goals Pharmaceutical Employees Environment Society Content Credits the CEO Report Core Values Industry Index Environment Water GRI G4-EN8 | G4-EN10 | G4-EN22 | G4-EN24 Recognizing the importance of good management of its water resources In order to reduce the amount of water discarded after production, the organization has implemented to mitigate the environmental impact of its production, Daiichi Sankyo a reuse system, which collects waste water from the water purification system used in medicine Brasil closely monitors its consumption and water disposal indicators. manufacturing and sends it to the plant cisterns, together with rain water. The company reuses the water in bathroom discharges, gardening and cleaning of outdoor areas. In total, the company In fiscal year 2016/2017, the company consumed 9,514 m³ of water, recycles 1,776 m³ of water, representing 18.67% of the volume consumed. coming from the supply company. This figure is 26% lower than that registered in the previous year: In 2016/2017, no significant leakage was recorded in the operations of Daiichi Sankyo Brasil. In the same period, the company discarded 9,514 m³ of water, destined to the public sewage network. The volume is 16% lower than the previous year. Water consumption (m³/year) Effluents (m³/year) -26% -16% 12,783 11,343 9,514 9,514 2015/2016 2016/2017 2015/2016 2016/2017 Daiichi Sankyo Brasil Sustainability Report 2016/2017 38 Mission, The GRI Message from About the Welcome Highlights Vision and Profile Governance Goals Pharmaceutical Employees Environment Society Content Credits the CEO Report Core Values Industry Index Society “It’s a great achievement to realize that through teamwork and commitment of all, we provide a better quality of life for people.” Eduardo Tozzi Quality Operations Daiichi Sankyo Brasil Sustainability Report 2016/2017 39 Mission, The GRI Message from About the Welcome Highlights Vision and Profile Governance Goals Pharmaceutical Employees Environment Society Content Credits the CEO Report Core Values Industry Index Society Product Safety GRI G4-PR1 SAC Daiichi Sankyo Brasil values the relationship with its patients, Daiichi Sankyo’s focus is on creating and supplying innovative medicines professionals. In Brazil, the scenario is different and most of the data personalizing consultations while ensuring the privacy of that help improve the quality of life for its patients. Therefore, the quality received on adverse events are reported by the patients or caregivers their information. and safety of its products is a central aspect of its management, which themselves, through the Customer Service Department (SAC). Through the company’s Customer Service (SAC), the patient can report requires attention from the initial development research, through the adverse reaction, send comments, suggestions and questions. The production process to the commercialization phase. Since this information is reported directly by patients, it is important service is offered by the phone 08000 55 65 96, online chat, Contact Us that the organization rely on trained pharmacists to perform these on the institutional website or email sac@dsbr.com.br The organization follows the best practices to evaluate, monitor and consultations. In addition to collecting adverse events reports, they ensure the safety and efficacy of all products launched. The researches may provide technical information and guidance on the correct use In 2016/2017, 20,904 calls were made to SAC. At the end of the call, 88% of them were rated as good and great. Consumer demands were are conducted with absolute scientific rigor, as well as being evaluated of the medicine, precautions necessary for its use during pregnancy, classified as follows: by the regulatory agencies located in the countries in which the products and how to act in situations of overdose. are marketed. After the medicines reach the market, what happens after Consultations handled by the SAC an intense and careful testing period, the company continues to track In fiscal year 2016/2017, the organization prepared a new checklist 3% its effects on the patient, looking for unexpected reactions, taking the for the collection and registering of reports, which should be 5% 1% necessary measures to ensure safety. followed by the employees in order to improve the quality of the 0% information collected. Pharmacovigilance Once collected by the employees, the pharmacovigilance information is compiled into a global database that gathers information collected The Pharmacovigilance area is responsible for monitoring the safety worldwide, allowing the identification of possible changes in the safety profile of Daiichi Sankyo Brasil medicines. The activities of this area 80% profile of the drug, in a quick and effective way. are initiated during the research for the development of new products, but its activity is intensified after the medicines enter the market. At If a new adverse reaction, precaution or possible risk is verified, that moment, the population exposure to the medicine increases the company will update the package insert and notify regulatory significantly, allowing to confirm if the safety profile indicated in the agencies. If necessary, the company may take other additional safety Request Complaint Pharmacovigilance studies is maintained after its commercialization. actions such as releasing alerts for healthcare professionals and / or Information Opinion patients, initiate new safety studies or even discontinue the product, Normally, in other countries around the world, pharmacovigilance information reaches companies through reports from healthcare always with the aim of ensuring patient safety. 20,904 c o n s u l t a t i o n s we r e h a n d l e d by t h e S AC Daiichi Sankyo Brasil Sustainability Report 2016/2017 40 Mission, The GRI Message from About the Welcome Highlights Vision and Profile Governance Goals Pharmaceutical Employees Environment Society Content Credits the CEO Report Core Values Industry Index Society Social Impact Daiichi Sankyo Brasil is concerned with bringing to patients the best Your Health: the organization also launched a new area on its available information about their health, the diseases that can reach them, institutional website dedicated to the publication of new content and the best prevention and treatment practices. To achieve that, the and materials. The goal is to help the general public to enjoy a better company has the following means: quality of life by addressing content on the prevention of diseases and promotion of healthy habits and wellness. The page address is: Geral na Saúde (Health First Project): the project is an initiative from http://www.daiichisankyo.com.br/site/sua-saude/ Interfarma with the objective of stimulating the potential of children and adolescents as communicators and agents of health promoting changes. Executed by Oficina de Ideias, it has reached 228,015 people and has a network of 10,968 participants, among educators, partners, children, adolescents, young learners and parents. In fiscal year 2015/2016, Daiichi Sankyo Brasil continued to financially support the project. During Daiichi Sankyo Brasil’s end-of-year party, held in December, employees were invited to participate in the Heartbike Social networks: in 2016, Daiichi Sankyo Brasil launched its Facebook challenge. For this, they were divided into teams and had to page, which already has more than 20 thousand followers. Through it assemble thirty bikes from the instructions contained in their and its YouTube channel, the company has run campaigns to warn about manuals, developing their teamwork skills. Hypertension, Cancer, Thrombosis and Diabetes, among other diseases. To follow the company on social networks, access: After being assembled, the organization reported that the bicycles would be donated to thirty children of a charity, present at the facebook.com/DaiichiSankyoBrasil event. The announcement came as a surprise to both children and employees, who were able to see how their joint effort can youtube.com/daiichisankyobrasil help improve the world. br.linkedin.com/company/daiichi-sankyo-brasil-ltda Daiichi Sankyo Brasil Sustainability Report 2016/2017 41 Mission, The GRI Message from About the Welcome Highlights Vision and Profile Governance Goals Pharmaceutical Employees Environment Society Content Credits the CEO Report Core Values Industry Index Society Amigos do Coração (Friends of the Heart Association) Daiichi Sankyo Brasil supports the Friends of the Heart Association (AAC) since 2011. It’s a Civil Society Organization in the Public Interest (OSCIP) created in 1999, with the support of the Heart Institute (InCor) Social Medical Service, with the mission of humanizing the hospital environment and promoting better quality of life for patients with heart diseases hospitalized in the Institute. The company maintains a Volunteer Program in partnership with AAC, in which its employees can carry out monitored visits to hospitalized patients, promoting their comfort and social life, rescuing their dignity and stimulating their recovery. The volunteer performs the activity once every fortnight, and Daiichi Sankyo donates the hours so he/she can volunteer in his/her office hours. Daiichi Sankyo Brasil Sustainability Report 2016/2017 42 Mission, The GRI Message from About the Welcome Highlights Vision and Profile Governance Goals Pharmaceutical Employees Environment Society Content Credits the CEO Report Core Values Industry Index About the Report “This report strengthens our culture of transparency and shows the actions we have taken together throughout the year.” Carlos Costa Human Resources Daiichi Sankyo Brasil Sustainability Report 2016/2017 43 Mission, The GRI Message from About the Welcome Highlights Vision and Profile Governance Goals Pharmaceutical Employees Environment Society Content Credits the CEO Report Core Values Industry Index About the Report GRI G4-18 | G4-25 In order to ensure that the topics covered in this Sustainability Report were in fact the most relevant to Daiichi Sankyo Brasil’s stakeholders, between 2016 and 2017 the organization conducted the process of revalidating the materiality matrix presented in the previous report. The eight material topics presented previously had been selected during a consultation to 16,405 company stakeholders, held between 2015 and 2016. The stakeholders consulted were selected after a mapping, prioritizing and reviewing process of the organization’s main stakeholders. At the beginning of 2017, the same topics were brought to the company executives, so that they could express their opinion about whether or not they are important for the sustainability of the business in the short, medium and long term. From the result, it was possible to set up a new materiality matrix, showing that the eight topics remain material for Daiichi Sankyo Brasil. 1 Materiality 6 Matrix Relevance to stakeholders Stakeholders 2 4 GRI G4-20 | G4-21 GRI G4-24 3 1 6 5 Relevance to stakeholders • Employees 2 4 3 7 • Suppliers 5 8 7 • Patients 8 • Physicians • Regulatory agencies Relevance to the organization • Distributors Relevance to the organization • Pharmaceutical industries 1 Medicines and 1 Medicines Environment and ImpactsImpacts Environment 3 Compliance to Laws 3andCompliance Regulations and to Laws Regulations 5 5Training Training 7 Effluents and Education and Education 7 Effluents and Residues and Residues • Community Market2 4Client’s 6 8 Market Client’s Health AntiWater 2 Share Share 4 Health and Safety and Safety 6 Water 8 Corruption AntiCorruption Daiichi Sankyo Brasil Sustainability Report 2016/2017 44 Mission, The GRI Message from About the Welcome Highlights Vision and Profile Governance Goals Pharmaceutical Employees Environment Society Content Credits the CEO Report Core Values Industry Index GRI Content Index “The company operates with transparency, sharing their actions with the society.” Amanda Cunha Communication Daiichi Sankyo Brasil Sustainability Report 2016/2017 45 Mission, The GRI Message from About the Welcome Highlights Vision and Profile Governance Goals Pharmaceutical Employees Environment Society Content Credits the CEO Report Core Values Industry Index GRI Content Index GRI Indicator Page / Direct Answer 1. Strategy and Analysis G4-1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organization about the relevance of sustainability to the organization Page 06 2. Organizational Profile G4-3 Name of the organization Page 04 G4-4 Primary brands, products, and services Page 13 G4-5 Location of the organization’s headquarters Page 14 G4-6 Number of countries where the organization operates Page 14 G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form Daiichi Sankyo Brasil Farmacêutica Ltda. G4-8 Markets served Page 14 G4-9 Scale of the organization Page 14 G4-10 Total number of employees Page 31 G4-11 Percentage of total employees covered by collective bargaining agreements 100% of Daiichi Sankyo Brasil employees are covered by collective bargaining. G4-12 Describe the organization’s supply chain Page 21 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding the organization’s size, structure, ownership, or its G4-13 There were no significant changes in fiscal year 2016/2017. supply chain Commitments to external initiatives The organization applies in its production an Environmental Management System that G4-14 Report whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed by the organization follows the ISO 14001 methodology, as described in Page 35. It promotes the use of processes, practices and products that prevent negative impacts to the environment. List externally developed economic, environmental and social charters, principles, or other initiatives to which the G4-15 Page 20 organization subscribes or which it endorses List memberships of associations (such as industry associations) and national or international advocacy: organizations G4-16 in which the organization, holds a position on the governance body, participates in projects or committees, provides Page 26 substantive funding beyond routine membership dues Daiichi Sankyo Brasil Sustainability Report 2016/2017 46 Mission, The GRI Message from About the Welcome Highlights Vision and Profile Governance Goals Pharmaceutical Employees Environment Society Content Credits the CEO Report Core Values Industry Index GRI Content Index GRI Indicator Page / Direct Answer 3. Identified Material Aspects and Boundaries Daiichi Sankyo Brasil has no subsidiary companies, therefore it is the only entity G4-17 List all entities included in the organization’s consolidated financial statements included in its financial statements. G4-18 Explain the process for defining the report content and the Aspect Boundaries Page 44 G4-19 List all the material Aspects identified in the process for defining report content Page 04 G4-20 For each material Aspect, report the Aspect Boundary within the organization Page 44 G4-21 For each material Aspect, report the Aspect Boundary outside the organization Page 44 G4-22 Report the effect of any restatements of information provided in previous reports, and the reasons for such restatements There were no restatements of information provided in previous reports There were no significant changes from previous reporting periods in the Scope G4-23 Report significant changes from previous reporting periods in the Scope and Aspect Boundaries and Aspect Boundaries. 4. Stakeholder Engagement G4-24 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization Page 44 G4-25 Report the basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage Page 44 Stakeholder engagement is a practice of Daiichi Sankyo Brasil, and is not limited to the time of writing this report. • Physicians: periodic, in congresses and visits by sales representatives and scientific consultants • Employees: daily and on demand by the Confidential Channel G4-26 Report the organization’s approach to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement • Suppliers: on demand • Patients: contacts received by the SAC • Distributors: periodic • Anvisa and other regulator y bodies: on demand • Interfarma: monthly • Sindusfarma: on demand The most relevant topics pointed out by the categories of stakeholders are: • Employees and pharmaceutical Industries: market presence Report key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the organization • Medical class: anti-corruption G4-27 has responded to those key topics and concerns • Daiichi Sankyo group: health and safety at work • Suppliers: training and education • Distributors: employment Daiichi Sankyo Brasil Sustainability Report 2016/2017 47 Mission, The GRI Message from About the Welcome Highlights Vision and Profile Governance Goals Pharmaceutical Employees Environment Society Content Credits the CEO Report Core Values Industry Index GRI Content Index GRI Indicator Page / Direct Answer 5. Report Profile G4-28 Reporting period Page 04 G4-29 Date of most recent previous report The previous report covers the fiscal year 4/1/2015 to 3/31/2016 G4-30 Reporting cycle Annual G4-31 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents Page 04 G4-32 Report the ‘in accordance’ option the organization has chosen, GRI Content Index and External Assurance Report Core G4-33 Report the organization’s policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report The report was not submitted to external assurance. 6. Governance Governance Structure and Composition G4-34 Report the governance structure of the organization, including committees Page 17 G4-38 Report the composition of the Board of Directors Page 17 G4-39 Report whether a Board of Directors member is also an executive officer (and, if so, which one?) Page 17 Report processes for the Board to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided and managed. Report whether conflicts G4-41 Page 19 of interest are disclosed to stakeholders Highest governance body’s role in evaluating economic, environmental and social performance G4-49 Report the process for communicating critical concerns to the Board Page 18 7. Ethics and Integrity Describe the organization’s values, principles, standards and norms of behavior such as codes of conduct and codes G4-56 Pages 11 and 18 of ethics Report the internal and external mechanisms for reporting concerns about unethical or unlawful behavior, and matters G4-58 Page 19 related to organizational integrity, such as escalation through line management, whistleblowing mechanisms or hotlines Economic Performance Aspect Market Presence EC5 Ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared to local minimum wage at significant locations of operation Page 32 Daiichi Sankyo Brasil Sustainability Report 2016/2017 48 Mission, The GRI Message from About the Welcome Highlights Vision and Profile Governance Goals Pharmaceutical Employees Environment Society Content Credits the CEO Report Core Values Industry Index GRI Content Index GRI Indicator Page / Direct Answer Environmental Aspect Energy EN3 Energy consumption within the organization Page 35 EN5 Energy intensity Page 35 EN6 Reduction of energy consumption Page 35 Aspect Water EN8 Total water withdrawal by source Page 38 EN9 Report the total number of water sources significantly affected by withdrawal by type The organization does not affect water sources due to withdrawal of water. EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused Page 38 Aspect Emissions EN15 Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 1) Page 35 EN21 NOX, SOX, and other significant air emissions Page 35 Aspect Effluents and Waste EN22 Total water discharge by quality and destination Page 38 EN23 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method Page 37 EN24 Total number and volume of significant spills Page 38 Aspect Compliance Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with The company has not received any fine or sanction for non-compliance EN29 environmental laws and regulations with environmental laws and regulations. Aspect Transport Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and materials for the organization’s EN30 Page 35 operations, and transporting members of the workforce Aspect Overall EN31 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type Page 35 Aspect Environmental Grievance Mechanisms The company has an open channel so that all stakeholders can make environmental Number of grievances about environmental impacts filed, addressed, and resolved Through formal EN34 impact alerts and grievances through the e-mail linhaverde@dsbr.com.br. grievance mechanisms However, no complaints were received in the period. Daiichi Sankyo Brasil Sustainability Report 2016/2017 49 Mission, The GRI Message from About the Welcome Highlights Vision and Profile Governance Goals Pharmaceutical Employees Environment Society Content Credits the CEO Report Core Values Industry Index GRI Content Index GRI Indicator Page / Direct Answer Social: Labor Practices and Decent Work Aspect Training and Education LA9 Average hours of training per year per employee by gender, and by employee category Page 33 In addition to the programs mentioned in Page 33, which contribute to employees’ Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued employability of employees long-term employability, the company does not have a specific program to support LA10 and assist them in managing career endings employees who are preparing for retirement, since its staff is made up of a young group. If any employee requests retirement, the case is analyzed specifically. Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews, by gender and by LA11 Page 32 employee category Social: Society Aspect Anti-Corruption The organization did not carry out this type of risk analysis in the period covered SO3 Total number and percentage of operations assessed for risks related to corruption and the significant risks identified by the report. SO4 Communication and training on anti-corruption policies and procedures Page 20 The company did not identify any cases of corruption in the period covered SO5 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken by the report. Social: Product Responsibility Aspect Customer Health and Safety Percentage of significant product and service categories for which health and safety impacts are assessed PR1 Page 40 for improvement Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning the health PR2 Page 25 and safety impacts of products and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes Aspect Product and Service Labeling Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning product and service PR4 Page 25 information and labeling, by type of outcomes Aspect Compliance Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations concerning the provision and use PR9 Page 25 of products and services Daiichi Sankyo Brasil Sustainability Report 2016/2017 50 Mission, The GRI Message from About the Welcome Highlights Vision and Profile Governance Goals Pharmaceutical Employees Environment Society Content Credits the CEO Report Core Values Industry Index Credits Coordination Human Resources Department | Communication Editorial project, content writing, GRI consulting and translation RICCA RI Graphic design, illustrations and layout RICCA RI Photos Caio Gallucci, Daiichi Sankyo Image Bank and iStock Image Bank Contact: responsabilidadesocial@dsbr.com.br September 2017 Daiichi Sankyo Brasil Sustainability Report 2016/2017 51
