COP REPORT 2016 –CONTENTS– P a ge 3 C E O co mmitme n t P a ge 4 1 0 p rin c ip les P a ge 5 S h o p D ire c t C S R board P a ge 6 L ab o u r, h u ma n right s and sourcing P a ge 7 P e o p le a n d c o lleague cult ure P a ge 8 B o d y ima g e P a ge 9 C h a rity P a ge 1 0 E n viro n me n t a n d recycling P a ge 1 1 A n ti-c o rru p tio n P a ge 1 2 D ata, s e c u rity a n d privacy P a ge 1 3 F in a n cia l s e rv ic e s P a ge 1 4 E x tern al re c o g n ition P a ge 1 5 S u mmary 2 –CEO COMMITMENT– 2016 was another year of strong progress for us support our local children’s hospital – something at Shop Direct. we’re very proud of as a team. Our 2015/16 financial year, which ended in June, We also maintained momentum within our CSR was our fourth consecutive year of record sales board of senior internal stakeholders, including and profits. We were particularly pleased with adding several new members of our leadership our strong trading performance, as well as the team, and invested further in responsible sourcing important steps forward we took on our journey to by increasing headcount and expertise in our world class. specialist team. Since joining in January 2004, we have continued We have numerous initiatives underway that will to support the United Nations Global Compact drive us closer to world class and we look forward and to abide by the ten principles in all of our to updating on those in 2018. In the meantime, business operations. We place a strong focus this report provides an overview of key activities on maintaining strong ethical and environmental undertaken across the business during 2016. standards and being the best possible citizen we can in the communities in which we operate. We hope you enjoy it and find it useful. With that in mind, we further developed our relationships with the ETI, Bangladesh Accord on Fire and Building Safety and SEDEX during the year, as well as becoming a member of a new, UKfocused collaborative initiative called Fast Forward. Alex Baldock We also published our first statement on modern Group chief executive slavery at the end of 2016, and raised £250,000 to 3 – T HE U NIT ED NAT IONS G LOB A L COMPACT TEN P R I NCIPLES– The United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) is the world’s largest voluntary corporate citizenship initiative. The UNGC issues Ten Principles on Human Rights, Labour Standards, the Environment and Corruption. Membership of the UNGC requires companies to issue a ‘Communication on Progress’ report annually. This report is our eighth COP and outlines Shop Direct’s activities in support of these Ten Principles. After a year in which we have made progress and reviewed our internal processes, we’re looking at setting more targeted KPIs going forward. HUMAN RIGHTS Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationallyproclaimed human rights; and Principle 2 Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. LABOUR Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4 The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5 The effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6 The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. ENVIRONMENT Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8 Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9 Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally-friendly technologies. ANTI-CORRUPTION Principle 10 Businesses should work against all forms of corruption, including extortion and bribery. 4 –THE CSR BOARD– Matt Dixon Andy Connelly Group product director, Head of consumer affairs CSR board chair Andy Wolfe John Pears Chief information officer Credit risk & operations director Geoff Scully Peter Johnson Head of Littlewoods Ireland Head of internal audit Zoe Matthews Kenyatte Nelson Fashion director Marketing director Liam Fu Richard Thomas Head of information Global sourcing director security Colin Watt Rob Hardman Director of employee Commercial director relations, engagement & people services Steve Yates Lauren Young Head of group property, Head of external facilities and security communications 5 – L A B O UR , HUMAN RIGHT S A N D SOURCING– POLICIES resource, strengthening our team of experts. We also Shop Direct maintains rigorous policies on labour, increased our levels of transparency, improved factory human rights and sourcing: compliance, collaborative partnerships, peer group cooperation and project activity on all fronts and across • We abide by a responsible sourcing code of multiple product sectors. Notably, we completed a conduct based on the UK Ethical Trading Initiative strategic shift from the use of traditional in-house (ETI) Base Code, which is regularly updated to systems to the SEDEX platform and the acceptance of ensure we stay in line with regulatory updates and independent third party factory audits. This will enable industry best practice us to put much more emphasis on remediation and • All suppliers must sign our terms of purchase corrective action plan improvement in future. agreement prior to doing business and, by doing so, they agree to the terms set out in the Shop Direct code of conduct 1. HUMAN RIGHTS • We check every first tier factory manufacturing We developed our responsible sourcing due diligence own brand product for compliance with the Shop approach, further embedding this in our gatekeeper Direct code of conduct prior to contract and we process and product sourcing critical path. We now assign them a grade (white, green, orange, red insist that all factories producing Shop Direct’s own and double red) brand product must be SEDEX-registered and have an appropriate ethical audit in place. Our team then • We mandate that the following issues are critical: reviews and grades the audit, thereby ensuring that forced or bonded labour, dangerous working any abuses of human rights are known to us and are conditions, access denied to property and/or worked on in partnership with the supplier and factory documents, bribery and corruption to ensure effective remediation. We do not source • New suppliers with a factory or factories that are from countries with international trade sanctions or found to have any of these issues prior to set up embargoes, and actively monitor the countries that we receive a window of opportunity to improve in line do source from to ensure we are aware of any changes with ETI best practice and supported by our inwhich may negatively impact people’s human rights. country teams • Should we find any of these issues at an existing 2. FORCED LABOUR & THE MODERN SLAVERY Shop Direct factory, then we work with them to ACT (2015) develop a suitable corrective action plan that ensures a sustainable solution is implemented The Shop Direct code of conduct, which is signed by all suppliers, states the following: • We maintain industry standard product sourcing policies on cotton sourcing, diamond sourcing, • There must be no form of forced labour, whether timber sourcing and design ethics it be involuntary prison labour, indentured labour, bonded labour or otherwise • We maintain industry standard no fur and no angora policies and rigid guidelines on the use • No employee should be obliged to work through of skins, based on best practice force, financial pressure, intimidation or any other means • Workers are not required to lodge deposits or their PARTNERSHIPS identity papers with their employer and are free to In late 2016, Shop Direct became a member of Fast leave their employment after reasonable notice Forward, a UK-focused manufacturing compliance • There must not be any form of social pressure, initiative that we believe greatly complements our unpaid loans or other restrictions imposed by the other, more global responsible sourcing memberships employer that would restrict workers’ freedom (ETI, SEDEX and the Bangladesh Accord). SUMMARY OF PROGRESS AND MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES FAST UK-focused Throughout 2016, we actively demonstrated increased FORWARD manufacturing commitment to the ten Global Compact principles via MEMBER compliance initiative the recruitment of additional responsible sourcing 6 – L A B O UR , HUMAN RIGHT S A N D SOURCING– Shop Direct’s factory monitoring programme found 4.SUPPLY CHAIN MONITORING eight cases of bonded labour in 2016. These were Throughout 2016, independent third party audits at factories in Malaysia producing furniture. Routine measuring compliance to local law and the ETI Base factory compliance audits conducted by independent Code (on which the Shop Direct code is based), took third parties revealed that some workers’ identity place at factories manufacturing Shop Direct product documents had been withheld without their full consent. in all 30 countries we source from. Issues that were Shop Direct’s in-house team worked closely with the assessed included health and safety, forced labour factories involved to implement improved HR practices (including modern slavery and people trafficking), that better respected the human rights of the workers, child labour, discrimination, working conditions whilst also providing security for those sponsoring and employment terms, wages and hours, and the their visa arrangements. These solutions were learned environment. Corrective action plans were developed from peer group retailers and other manufacturing for the non-compliances found and the Shop Direct companies in the local industry. team worked with the factories to drive rectification within agree timelines. In line with the legislative requirement, Shop Direct produced our first modern slavery statement in December 2016 and will issue an updated statement in 2017. 3.CHILD LABOUR We have recently updated our code of conduct in this area to be better aligned with best practice. The new code focuses on the acceptable employment of young workers, and will ensure that their rights and welfare are protected. The Shop Direct factory monitoring programme found no cases of child labour in 2016. Increased supply chain will be implemented via specialised transparency will remain key recruitment, which will allow better during 2017 and we will continue coverage – in particular regarding to work with our suppliers to move local projects and partnerships. PLANS towards and maintain best practice in this area. This will be possible Shop Direct will issue an updated modern slavery statement in 2017. FOR 2017 due to the investments made and subsequent improvements in To support this, we also have plans to roll out further training to Shop our systems and processes. Our Direct colleagues on responsible strategy to increase expertise on sourcing and the Modern Slavery the ground in key sourcing locations Act (2015). 7 –P EO P LE AND COLL EAGU E CULT URE– POLICIES space, juice bar and exercise area, is the result of the Shop Direct is compliant with all UK employment refurbishment of a former studio space at our Liverpool law and we proactively look to integrate updates and headquarters. It was designed using feedback from improvements. Shop Direct colleagues, who said they wanted a new space for thinking, learning and collaboration, as well Our people activity can be grouped under these as recharging their batteries and keeping fit. policies: • Shop Direct is a purpose and values-led business We have made a good start in this area with our 2016 • We aim to attract and retain world class talent engagement score on ‘Shop Direct cares about our • We release our talent’s full potential health and wellbeing’ increasing by five points versus • We inspire internal stakeholders through 2015. communications From a financial perspective, we introduced the • We focus on ways of working to ensure we National Living Wage six months ahead of schedule in are fit for world class October, including for those under 25. PARTNERSHIPS 2. LEARNING We continue to seek full and open dialogue with our We continued with targeted regulatory learning in colleagues and their representatives through channels 2016, all delivered via our digital learning hub and such as people forums, joint working parties, briefing achieving a 97% completion rate. Our programme of groups and our collective bargaining approach with activity has covered anti-bribery, business continuity the USDAW and SATA trade unions. and manual handling refreshers. We keep colleagues updated on corporate We’re also creating a culture of self-led, experiential, and individual business unit objectives, trading peer to peer and social learning where development is performance, economic conditions and other relevant realised and recognised in every opportunity, aligned matters. They are also represented on our pension to the business strategy of being mobile first and trustee boards. supporting our digital mindset. To further our wellbeing agenda for colleagues, we 3. DEVELOPMENT work with partners, including Baxter Storey, Nuffield Our career acceleration programme, Stand Out, Health, AXA and the Retail Trust. continued in 2016. We identified 20 high performing, high potential individuals to work on projects that SUMMARY OF PROGRESS AND MEASUREMENT complement our digital transformation. The projects OF OUTCOMES were centred around tech, environment, people and ways of working and will contribute to both our The success of our recent initiatives was reflected in wellbeing and digital ways of working programmes in our world class colleague engagement score of 84% 2017. for 2016 – our fifth successive score above 80%, which once again placed us in the top quartile of companies globally. Our progress during the year included: 1.WELLBEING 84% We dialled up our wellbeing agenda in 2016, helping Our sixth successive colleagues to balance a fulfilling career with a world class lifestyle that is right for them. This included wellbeing engagement score roadshows and a calendar of partner events across all of our sites. In summer 2016, we opened a state-of-the-art, 12,400 sq ft training, conferencing and wellbeing facility. The Cube, which includes a 250-capacity conference 8 –P EO P LE AND COLL EAGU E CULT URE– USE OF OUR WELLBEING CENTRE BEAUTY +33% 750 500 624 TREATMENTS 250 26 PT SESSIONS 2465 1390 CLASS VISITS GYM VISITS 0 AUG SEP OCT NOV MOST POPULAR: SHELLAC NAILS BROW WAX MOST POPULAR: BODY BLITZ & KETTLE BELLS LVL LASHES SHARED SPACE JUICY CUBE 30,000 sales Fully booked Fully booked 1800 1400 1555 1200 329 £1 1245 .53 1000 1240 600 715 best sales 3,000 Average seller per day smoothies spend 200 50% 30% 20% 0 AUG SEP OCT NOV Hot drinks Food & snacks Juice COLLEAGUE ATTENDANCE CHART As we continue our transformation Attracting new talent and building We want to empower our people into a world class digital retailer, a pipeline for the future continues to better serve our customers. our people strategy aims to to be a focus for us. We have We will also open a London hub support that by creating ‘a digital plans to work with schools, in summer 2017, which will act place full of purpose and passion’. universities and our leaders in as the blueprint for much of this 2017 to maximise the opportunity activity. We are an equal opportunities created by the Apprenticeship PLANS employer and recognise that diversity is central to our success. We also recognise that we can Levy. Fuelled by ideas generated In October 2017, we will reinforce our commitment to the National Living Wage by again introducing FOR 2017 always challenge ourselves to do more to ensure that diversity and inclusion are embedded in our by participants in our career accelerator programme, Stand Out, we are looking at new and the increased rates six months ahead of schedule, including for those under 25. We’re also culture and in how we hire and innovative ways to increase currently preparing for upcoming retain talent. With that in mind, collaboration, enhance our increases required by pensions we are currently working with our culture, update our workspaces auto enrolment legislation, colleagues and external experts to and improve the tools and working with benefit providers develop a new diversity strategy, technology that our colleagues who specialise in this area. which we will roll out in 2017/18. have available to do their jobs. 9 –B ODY IMAGE– reflected consumer preferences towards model age, racial POLICIES mix and body shape to create more inclusive brand appeal Shop Direct adheres to a body image policy which across gallery and aspirational imagery. includes the following requirements to ensure we product positive content for our customers: We promoted brand diversity and inclusivity by increasing ethnic diversity within our signed off model pack from 5% • All adult models to be a minimum of 18 years old and (2015) to 30% (2016) and choosing a mixed race model to models should look between 25 30 years when styled front our ‘Do More’ advertising in both summer and autumn 2017 campaigns. We sought out more shape diversity in • We only use models that are a minimum female UK size our models including the use of more athletic shapes within 8 minimum through to curve models up to a size 18 our branded content and included a greater proportion of • Female height generally 5.8 to 5.9, male height curvier celebrities within editorial content. To promote brand generally 6.0 to 6.3 inclusivity we also used standard, petite and plus ranges • All ethnicities and nationalities desirable to represent within brand content rather than segregating by body shape. the diversity of our customer base • All child models should appear within healthy body Through our branded lifestyle content we actively encourage weight parameters in line with age related expectations a healthy lifestyle based around medical recommendations • All models booked through established agencies to of exercise and consumption of healthy foods and only ensure any required visas and licences are in place comment positively on lifestyle and celebrity related articles. • Thorough casting process in place with regular studio We always produce inclusive, positive editorial content castings held to enable face-to-face model reviews around physical or mental disability. and latest digital images and video footage used to assess model suitability PARTNERSHIPS We work with a number of external model agencies, all of which must adhere to our policy. We ensure that model agencies are informed of any body shape concerns we may have. In such cases the model will not be booked again until a new assessment (casting or digital imagery) is complete. SUMMARY OF PROGRESS AND MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES In 2016 we maintained the strict standards of our body image policy. We also implemented research learnings that 30% Alongside maintaining our standards on body imagery, we also plan to increase the level of ethnic diversity to 50% across our model board. In line PLANS with customer research recommendations, we plan to constantly review brand imagery and model FOR 2017 pitch. Specifically we will look to promote inclusivity by including models who have more achievable, realistic healthy body shapes and consider the use of models with disability if the story lends itself to Ethnic diversity within this use. our model pack 10 –CHARIT Y– POLICIES the development of a digital app for Alder Hey Children’s Giving something back to the places where we live and Hospital, to enable families to familiarise themselves work is important to Shop Direct. We continue to play a with the hospital before they arrive and to distract young positive role in our local communities through our charity patients while they are being treated. Members of our programme. multi-award winning ecommerce team worked with Alder Hey’s innovation team to develop the app – the first of its kind in the country – providing expert insight and advice We support an annual charity based on a business-wide on design, development and personalisation. In total, we colleague vote. Our colleagues choose from three options raised £250,000 for this project and our partnership went to support a digitally-focused project that will deliver on to be recognised as the Most Innovative Collaboration maximum impact in our local communities. The support at the North West Coast Research and Innovation Awards. is delivered through a variety of colleague fundraising activities as well as skill sharing. The following policies underpin our approach: In October 2016, our colleagues embarked on an ambitious target to raise £400,000 to enable Claire House • Shop Direct match funds colleague fundraising of up Children’s Hospice to get its new, digitally-equipped to £200 per activity via our online portal, Helping Hand Liverpool hospice off the ground. An innovation board was • We also raise funds for our chosen charity partner set up between Shop Direct and Claire House to drive the through a biennial themed ball project and share our expertise. • We donate all of our sample clothing to our chosen charity partner, which they sell to raise funds to In December 2016, we held our biennial themed charity support their cause ball, raising £150,000 towards our fundraising target, • We offer payroll giving to enable colleagues to donate through table sales and fundraising activities such as a directly to their chosen charities raffle, silent auction and grand auction. • We do not support any charities with political or religious links PARTNERSHIPS In October 2016, we completed our year-long partnership with Alder Hey Children’s Hospital. Our 4,700 colleagues then voted for the next annual charity partnership and chose to support Merseyside-based Claire House Children’s Hospice. Charities Trust operates our Helping Hand matched giving scheme and administers our payroll giving scheme. SUMMARY OF PROGRESS AND MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES We set an ambitious target of raising £200,000 to help fund We will continue to support and engage our colleagues across our sites to reach our target of £400,000 for Claire House Children’s Hospice £150,000 by October 2017. This will be supported by our PLANS commitment to our shared innovation board to ensure we digitally equip Claire House’s new hospice in FOR 2017 Liverpool to create a future-proof, state-of-the-art facility that will benefit hundreds of North West children and families. Raised at our In October 2017, we will then ask colleagues to vote charity ball for our next charitable project. 11 – E NV IR ONMENT AND R E CYCL ING– POLICIES • In 2016, we recycled over 2432 tonnes of cardboard Shop Direct commits to strive to reduce our impact and 479 tonnes of plastic. We recycle 83.32% of our on the planet. Our policies comprise: waste on our sites and 16.68 % goes off site to be recycled into waste to energy. We strive to improve • Zero to landfill our on-site recycling figures by sending only residual • Aiming to improve our recycling on site to ensure we amounts of waste to energy production act responsibly • We continued with our investment of making recycling • Carrying out random DNA analysis on our waste convenient for our colleagues with our Nexus 50 and streams to ensure behaviours have not changed and 100 recycling bins across the estate, making it easy for we are focusing on the right objectives them to make the right choices, placing waste in the • We are responsible and efficient in our energy correct waste stream. This in turn ensures the hierarchy consumption and commit to a year-on-year r of our waste is maintained and improves the grade of eduction in utility consumption the recyclate materials we produce • Our travel policy ensures all Shop Direct travel is booked in a responsible and safe manner We measure through monthly data, quarterly account review meetings and recycling events twice a year. PARTNERSHIPS Shop Direct partners with Veolia, the UK leader in 2. ENERGY environmental solutions. We are in the early stages of this We now have a ‘one group, one approach’ for all things new partnership and look to continually innovate and make energy-efficient and best practice in making a difference, recycling easy and convenient. and have consistent communication across operational sites of energy consumption. We also partner with Statesman Travel to deliver safe, reliable, cost-effective and responsible travel behaviour. In 2016, we undertook a number of energy initiatives across Statesman now have colleagues in our head office various sites, including energy-efficient PCs, new hot water in Liverpool to bring a more personal, innovative and heating systems and revisions in building management responsive service. systems software. We also reviewed maintenance plans to increase energy efficiencies. We partner with Scottish Power and SSE for electricity supply and British Gas for gas supply. Engie Facilities We exceeded our reduction in electricity targets against Management are our current partner for mechanical and previous years and have a 100% automatic meter reading electrical services, ensuring optimum energy efficiency, and across electricity, gas and water, with real-time reporting STC Energy provide Energy Savings Opportunity Scheme, via our partner STC’s web portal. There is also automatic CRC Energy Efficiency Scheme and web portal services. alerting of over-consumption against target and historic consumption. SUMMARY OF PROGRESS AND MEASUREMENTS OF OUTCOMES We also invested in energy efficient AHU equipment as part of our head office events and wellbeing space, The Cube. 1. WASTE • Our waste model works by treating waste as a resource We remain certified to the Carbon Trust Standard for and striving to keep our recyclate streams hierarchy Carbon, recognising our best practice approach to high, to ensure our zero to landfill commitment: managing and reducing greenhouse gas emissions. • Where possible, our ultimate aim is to create a waste stream that can be recycled back to a raw material • Our waste supplier is a recycling company not a waste collection company – this leads to a more transparent waste process. They have committed to us that we will reduce our carbon footprint by keeping the mileage low in the vehicles that pick up our waste by processing it locally to our different sites 12 – E NV IR ONMENT AND R E CYCL ING– 3. TRAVEL During 2016, we developed a more encompassing travel programme, expanding on current services and to link with partners abroad: • Our travel service is now able to respond more to subtle changes required, as the Statesman team is on-site and therefore more aware of our behaviours and requirements • We’re reducing costs where possible through working with different teams and understanding their travel behaviours • We have worked to increase online adoption, allowing colleagues to book whenever and from whatever device they want • We challenged behaviours to reduce our cost and carbon footprint through responsible travel • We are able to track, monitor and therefore reduce the overall cost of travel • We promote safe, cost-effective and responsible travel and work together with Statesman to deliver a crisis management team, traveller tracking and duty of care • Introduced monthly coffee mornings with new starters and key travellers to discuss the service, what we can do better or differently, and to share best practices. In 2017, we will improve the hierarchy of our responsible travel by using airlines that waste to transfer them into a rebate, and buy into reducing their footprint, book with therefore reduce our carbon footprint. We will agencies that are like-minded and ensure no continue to innovate and improve recycling unnecessary travel. facilities on-site, which in turn will increase our recycling figures within our sites. We will We will strive to improve our energy efficiency PLANS also work with Veolia to improve and reduce what we send for WTE. further in 2017 and continue to innovate and enhance our building management systems, FOR 2017 ensuring optimum operating hours of all of We will continue to keep our travellers safe our plant and equipment. We will work with as well as challenge behaviours and offer Engie for energy innovations such as solar, more cost-effective travel alternatives. We LED lighting and on-site electricity generation will continue innovating to make booking opportunities, and focus on water reduction travel easy and time effective and to work now that the market has been de-regulated. with our partners to deliver responsible travel behaviours. We will also encourage 13 – A N TI-C ORRUPTION– POLICIES • Conducting annual colleague refresher training on Shop Direct maintains its zero tolerance approach to key policies. The training module was updated this corruption, which is underpinned by a number of key year using a gamification theme, driving increased policies and processes, including: levels of participation and engagement of 96% • Any gifts, hospitality and entertaining must be • All internal policies are regularly reviewed as part of formally approved in advance and must be our ongoing assurance activity appropriate, proportionate and not have the ability to • Our gifts and hospitality and conflicts of interest unduly influence decisions policies were re-communicated to all relevant • Any potential conflicts of interest must be declared colleagues and registered and potential mitigating action • We trialled the use of more sophisticated intelligence considered by the appropriate director sources to support our existing supplier due • A confidential whistleblowing line is in operation, diligence processes which is operated by a third party, with any reported • A bribery and corruption working group was formed, incidents being investigated independently comprising of key stakeholders across the business. • All new suppliers receive Shop Direct’s code of This group now meets on a quarterly basis to ensure conduct and a statement of our zero tolerance appropriate focus is placed on bribery and corruption approach to bribery and corruption. Existing and related matters across the business suppliers also receive reinforcement communications • Bribery and corruption risks are considered in all periodically relevant internal audits • Bribery and corruption risks are reviewed on an annual basis and are factored into the audit planning process • All employees are trained annually on the above key policies, including a knowledge check PARTNERSHIPS We manage our own policies through internal teams and don’t work with any external partners for this area. SUMMARY OF PROGRESS AND MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES Specific areas of focus and development over the period included: • All relevant policies to be reviewed and updated 96% • as appropriate Online training will be updated and refreshed for all colleagues in November 2017 PLANS • We will further evaluate the use of technology to monitor potential bribery and corruption risks FOR 2017 • We will evaluate how additional supplier intelligence sources can be embedded in our supplier due diligence processes Colleague training • Our working group will continue to meet on participation a quarterly basis to consider bribery and corruption risks and controls 14 – D A TA , S ECURITY AND P R IVACY– POLICIES SUMMARY OF PROGRESS AND MEASUREMENT OF At Shop Direct, we are committed to preserving the OUTCOMES confidentiality, integrity and availability of all customer As part of our security transformation in 2016, we: information from the threat of cyber attack. Our approach • Commissioned an independent security controls to the security of customer information is underpinned by a assessment and benchmark report number of key policies and processes: • Introduced a ‘three lines of defence’ model to provide a • Information and cyber security policy: we ensure that layered approach to cyber risk our customers’ data is appropriately protected from • Put in place a strategic education and awareness unauthorised access, distribution, loss or corruption programme to run for the next three years across Shop • Privacy policy: our data privacy programmes and Direct practices are focused on processing information appropriately and lawfully ensuring it is in accordance with regulatory requirements We regularly assess and measure our resilience to cyber threats by benchmarking our environments objectively using • Security awareness and education standards: we hold the ISF’s benchmarking service. This allows us to measure our colleagues accountable for complying with our and report upon the effectiveness and value of our security internal policies that define acceptable behaviour when programme and security investments. handling customer data • Secure configuration: establishing and actively maintaining the secure configuration of information and We also worked towards independent certifications for communications technology (ICT) by having policies our security measures to protect customers’ financial and and processes in place to develop secure personal information. baseline builds PARTNERSHIPS We work with leading security organisations to help us deliver a cyber-resilient service for our customers. These partnerships include: • CESG – the UK government’s National Technical Authority for Information Assurance, which advises organisations on how to protect their information and information systems against today’s threats • CERT – the UK’s national Computer Emergency Response Team, which manages and prepares for national cyber security incidents • ISF – the Information Security Forum, which is the world’s leading authority on cyber, information security and risk management • IBM – as a strategic partner, IBM provides enterprisewide security intelligence and expertise We will continue to progress with our bold security suitable for our business. The and innovative security strategy in 2017, scheme addresses five key controls that, delivering on the following objectives: when implemented correctly, can prevent • Continue to mature information security around 80% of cyber attacks. Achieving • Increase our technical capability certification will also help to address other • Meet our regulatory and CSR compliance requirements, such as the EU PLANS • requirements Use information security to enable and General Data Protection Regulation. FOR 2017 enhance the business Our technical capability to predict, prevent, detect, respond will also be greatly enhanced We’re building an approach that will ultimately with our adoption of machine learning, lead to a cyber essentials certification in automation and artificial intelligence 2017/18. Cyber Essentials is a governmenttechniques in 2017. backed cyber security certification scheme that sets out a good baseline of cyber 15 – F I NA NC IAL SERVICES– POLICIES regulatory guidance and industry codes and practices, • Shop Direct monitors customers’ financial such as the Finance and Leasing Association Lending wellbeing every month, both in terms of account Code. We are authorised and regulated by the performance and using external credit bureaux Financial Conduct Authority. data in every credit decision • Credit decisions are assessed through highly We work closely with free debt advice charities, such predictive automated scoring, which provides as StepChange, as well as calling on expertise from consistency and robustness of decision making leading charity Samaritans, to ensure customers have • As a responsible lender, Shop Direct refuses credit the most appropriate available options for support. where we feel it is unaffordable for customers to sustain SUMMARY OF PROGRESS AND MEASUREMENT • We use a wide range of controls and tools to OF OUTCOMES protect our customers and ourselves We are proud of the range of financial services from fraud products we offer and the role we play in our customers’ lives. We have a variety of policies in place PARTNERSHIPS to ensure we bring good products within reach of our customers in a responsible way. Shop Direct Financial Services is the sole provider of credit facilities to support our retail offering. This enables customers to finance their purchases using We have continued to ensure that we achieve the right easy to understand credit products. In addition, we customer outcomes with our credit decisions, refusing partner with other responsible lenders to offer personal to approve new or further credit where we do not feel it loan and credit card facilities to customers. is responsible to do so. All credit facilities are provided in line with the Consumer Credit Directive 2010, and we comply with 16 – F I NA NC IAL SERVICES– There are also times when our customers experience financial difficulty, for a variety of reasons. Whilst the vast majority of customers are able to resolve any difficulties, we sometimes have to increase the level of support we give. At such times, our colleagues work with customers to find appropriate short or longer-term solutions. If the customer is in broader financial difficulty, we make sure that we refer them for independent debt advice. We continue to invest heavily in measures to prevent and detect criminal activity and lessen the effects this can have upon our customers and wider society. In addition to the fraud protection measures we undertake internally, we continue to educate our customers on fraud threats, such as phishing scams on the internet and the need to protect their personal data. We continue to generate improvements in our capability to assess and understand customers’ circumstances. We improved our data and decisioning capability once again this year, ensuring we continue to make the best and most responsible possible credit decisions for our customers. We take a proactive approach to assessing the financial wellbeing of our customers. As an indication of impact in 2016: • We accepted only around 30% of new credit applications • We declined nearly 12% of existing customer order requests for extending credit in order to protect them from affordability issues or fraud • We saw a continued reduction in fraud incurred During 2017, we will continue to test and We will continue to monitor customers’ develop additional tools to help us further financial wellbeing every month, both in understand and monitor our customers’ terms of account performance and using affordability. We are enhancing our external bureaux data in every credit system capability to use a wider range decision. of information to better understand our PLANS customers’ behaviour in real time and better personalise our decisions. In addition, all our credit decisions will continue to be assessed through highly FOR 2017 predictive automated scoring, which We will deliver improved self-serve provides consistency and robustness of functionality for our customers to manage decision making. the amount of credit that they have with us. We will also further develop our fraud We will further expand our helpful detection capabilities, while simultaneously reminders and education to customers to increasing our focus on fraud disruption. help them keep their accounts on track. 17 –E XTE R N A L RECOGNITION – In 2016, Shop Direct won a total of 32 awards in recognition of our progress towards world class. These included: The OC&C Strategy Consultants Pure ecommerce company of the year Play Etailer of the Year – Shop Direct Best digital team – Shop Direct Retailer of the year – Shop Direct Employee recognition and reward – Digital Business of the Year Shop Direct’s colleague recognition tool, Shine Award for Excellence in Procurement Best Online Retailer of Preschool Products – Very.co.uk Collections and customer service awards Charitable Initiative of the Year – IT team of the year Shop Direct (FS) 18 –SUMMARY– In this annual communication on progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. Throughout 2017, our CSR board will continue to drive CSR activities across Shop Direct and ensure we hold ourselves accountable for meeting our commitments. We look forward to reporting on our progress next year.
