COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORT 2016 CONTENTS 1 DRAHTZUG STEIN 1 CONTENTS CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S STATEMENT 03 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS HUMAN RIGHTS 04 LABOR 07 ENVIRONMENT 09 ANTI-CORRUPTION 12 CONTENTS 02 DRAHTZUG CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S STATEMENT Since Drahtzug joined the United Nations our company and outside. In 2016, we Global Compact two years ago, we have established a corporate philosophy and been supporting the Global Compact’s code of conduct that are fully in line with mission to turn business into a force for good. the principles and goals of the Global We share its commitment to sustainability Compact. For this reason, from our point and the belief that businesses can take of view, ensuring compliance with all legal responsibility for achieving a better world. regulations and our own ethical standards In pursuance of the goal of creating a is the best way to promote human rights, sustainable and inclusive economy that children’s rights and labor rights, as achieves lasting benefits for people, well as to fight corruption. Building on communities and markets, we made the our well-established and comprehensive 10 universal principles of the Global Compact environmental management system, we a guideline for everything we do. not only ensure compliance with our own rules but constantly work to improve our By engaging in the Global Compact initiative, environmental record by working towards we are also publicly communicating our achieving the environmental goals we have ongoing commitment to protect human set ourselves. rights, labor rights and the environment, as well as to fight corruption. We are proud to In accordance with the spirit of the Global openly demonstrate the values we stand for Compact, we hereby disclose our actions and we hope to inspire others to join us. by submitting our annual Communication on Progress report. This report demonstrates Ever since we made corporate compliance our continued support for the goals of the a focal point of our activities in 2015, we Global Compact and provides a good overall have taken action to spread the necessary sense of our activities and their results. Our knowledge and raise awareness within support will continue. CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S STATEMENT Sincerely, 03 Wolfgang Stein DRAHTZUG President and CEO DRAHTZUG holding Communication ON PROGRESS HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLE 1: Respect for human rights is unconditional These standards have been laid down in BUSINESSES SHOULD throughout all the Drahtzug family of our corporate guidelines. These values are SUPPORT AND RESPECT companies. At each location and as a at the heart and soul of our corporate THE PROTECTION OF group, we are committed to respecting and philosophy and our code of conduct. The INTERNATIONALLY promoting human rights. We will not tolerate guidelines specify the ideals we adhere to PROCLAIMED HUMAN any infractions of human rights within our and the qualities we strive to fulfill in our RIGHTS; AND sphere of influence and will act accordingly. daily work. Furthermore, we regard the code PRINCIPLE 2: of conduct as binding; not just for all our MAKE SURE THAT THEY Over and above ensuring human rights employees but for everyone involved with ARE NOT COMPLICIT IN within our sphere of activity, we have set our company, including our customers and HUMAN RIGHTS ABUSES. significantly higher ethical standards for suppliers. These guidelines are mandatory ourselves. We treat each other with respect reading for every employee. They are also and acceptance, respect social manners and publicly accessible via our website. This strive for polite cooperation. We are aware means that the values we stand for are clearly of our responsibility as role models and visible to any interested parties. we act with integrity. We regard a pluralistic personnel structure as an enrichment. We In 2016, we continued to work intensively condemn any form of discrimination. We on the development of our compliance respect all legal rights of our employees. management system and made great Throughout our company, we communicate progress in establishing uniform standards in an open, goal-oriented and clear manner. of behavior in our company. The compliance We encourage the open exchange of management system helps us to protect opinions, criticism and ideas. Conflicts our company and our employees against help us to look at our positions critically regulatory violations that can have serious and to learn from them. We encourage all consequences. By actively preventing illegal colleagues to act on their own initiative. At actions, such as violations of competition law the same time, we expect them to observe or property rights, we also demonstrate to the responsibility that comes with this and to our employees, stakeholders and business work towards our common goals. partners that Drahtzug does not tolerate illegal HUMAN RIGHTS business practices. 04 DRAHTZUG Without exception, we follow current legislation Another sports activity we have supported as in all business transactions and respect our a company is the participation of two Drahtzug own principles of integrity and mutual respect. teams in the Lodz Business Run, as part of our By making these standards the benchmark of ongoing support for various employee sports our actions, we minimize the risk of endangering activities in Lodz. the future of our company through penalties resulting from dubious actions. At Drahtzug, we also care about opening up opportunities for people in difficult situations, In addition to preventing misconduct, we take especially those who have been forced to flee action as a company to make a positive impact their homes. Many of the Drahtzug employees on the lives of our employees and other people in Altleiningen once left their homes abroad in our surroundings. One way for us to promote in search of a better live. Today, they have all the self-realization of our employees is to become valued members not only of Drahtzug provide them with educational opportunities. but of their communities as well. It is therefore At our site in Cusset, we continue to provide hardly surprising that we strongly sympathize extensive English language training courses for with the plight of today’s refugees. So, partly 13 employees. All year long, participants took because it is the right thing to do and partly advantage of the opportunity and improved shaped by our own experience, Drahtzug is their language skills. At our Altleiningen actively supporting refugees in Altleiningen facilities, we support our employees by offering and the surrounding region. To enable them to health courses. Over the last year, we engaged integrate and help them in doing so is a task a locally based trainer to conduct physical that affects everyone. Since 2015, especially activity sessions during working hours. Once a for refugees, Drahtzug has been offering week, every employee now has the opportunity two internships each in our production and to participate in a free training session during workshop facilities. If the necessary papers working hours and to discuss specific are available and they are appropriate to the problems with the trainer. While earlier initiatives respective tasks, they can also undertake targeted at getting people moving after work training or take up regular employment. In achieved only moderate results, participation this way, like many other companies in the HUMAN RIGHTS in this program has been overwhelming: region, we are making an active contribution more than 90 per cent of staff are taking part. to integration. 05 DRAHTZUG As well as improving the lives of the people Another step to support entities that involved with our company, Drahtzug is enable people with disabilities to lead as committed to helping less fortunate people. normal a life as possible was our decision Since 2015, we have continued our longto award the contract for cleaning the standing commitment to Lebenshilfe Bad workwear of our Altleiningen employees Dürkheim e.V., which helps people with to the “Ludwigshafener Werkstätten”. Like disabilities to lead more fulfilled lives. We the “Lebenshilfe Bad Dürkheim” social support the association financially and are also organization, the Ludwigshafener Werkstätten a partner of the workshops they operate. For offers people with disabilities the opportunity the third year in a row, we made a donation to undertake regular work. By switching from to support a vital expansion of their organic a commercial provider to a laundry service that farm. Located less than a kilometer from explicitly helps disadvantaged people, we are the Altleininger parent plant, the farm needs strengthening our social commitment in the massive upgrading if it is to maintain its region. organic status. Without this, one of the most important pillars of the concept of respectful At our US facility in New Bern, we established interaction with humans and nature that it a new partnership that combined multiple embodies would disappear. The loss of biobenefits. Through our initiative to recycle approval would be the end of the previous work aluminum beverage cans, we are not there. Almost 30 years ago, the “Lebenshilfe only protecting the environment but also Bad Dürkheim” organization bought the farm supporting vulnerable women. All proceeds and made it a place where handicapped and of the project go directly to the Coastal non-disabled employees could work side Women’s Shelter in New Bern. by side, gaining both self-confidence and affirmation. The farm gives the people living there a home. In addition, it has developed into a forum where visitors, especially school classes, meet with the people living there and experience a respectful way of dealing with HUMAN RIGHTS each other and with nature. 06 DRAHTZUG LABOR PRINCIPLE 3: At Drahtzug, mutual trust and respect for development of all employees, in particular the BUSINESSES SHOULD each other are the cornerstones on which expansion of their expertise through training. UPHOLD THE FREEDOM our relationship with our employees is At the same time, we explicitly condemn OF ASSOCIATION AND THE based. We always behave towards each any form of discrimination, regardless of EFFECTIVE RECOGNITION OF other with sincerity and care. Among other whether it relates to the person, his or her THE RIGHT TO COLLECTIVE things, this means that we also assume behavior, or his or her actions. Naturally, we BARGAINING; responsibility for the social welfare and respect the legal rights of our employees. We PRINCIPLE 4: health of our employees. It goes without pay fair wages – at least the statutory and THE ELIMINATION OF ALL saying that we respect and abide by collectively agreed minimum standards – and FORMS OF FORCED AND the statutory standards of employment respect the statutory and collectively agreed COMPULSORY LABOR; protection and occupational safety, as standards on working hours, holidays and well as the respective minimum wages, public holidays. We respect the legal rights PRINCIPLE 5: in all countries in which we are active and of co-determination and observe all legal, THE EFFECTIVE ABOLITION OF CHILD LABOR; AND without exception. We regard these social trade association and occupational safety achievements as something of great value. regulations at all times. We rigorously reject PRINCIPLE 6: any form of child labor or forced labor. THE ELIMINATION We are constantly modernizing our OF DISCRIMINATION production facilities, improving our business During the past year, we have carried out IN RESPECT TO processes and structures, and thus creating several activities to promote these values. The EMPLOYMENT AND the conditions that will enable us to remain following examples showcase some of our OCCUPATION. a reliable employer and social partner in the efforts to put these aspirations into practice. future. Last year, we implemented a series of measures at all our sites that increased our Thanks to a new bonus system at our locations competitiveness without placing a burden in Come and Omim, we are rewarding our on our workforce. On the contrary: in many employees more generously than before cases, we have improved working conditions for the success achieved by their work. We at the same time. coordinated the underlying model with the trade unions and introduced it in September At Drahtzug, we strive in all areas to create at both locations. At the same time, with the a work environment that enables every aim of improving the compatibility of work LABOR employee to produce his or her best and family life, we have made working hours performance. We support the personal more flexible for several employees at Come. 07 DRAHTZUG This makes it easier for these parents to further increase safety for our employees. balance the requirements of family life with In Lodz, almost 50 employees from small children with those of their work. different departments have completed a first aid course and have learned how to As part of our ongoing program to react as first responders in the event of an give our employees more autonomy accident or other incident. Among other in their field of work and thus more things, they also learned how to use the responsibility, we expanded our Total newly acquired defibrillators correctly. Productive Management (TPM) program in Altleiningen and introduced it at our To improve the working environment, facility in Cusset. TPM also enables us we completely renovated the canteen at to sustainably increase productivity while Drahtzug Stein Omim. Among other things, improving transparency. For example, we replaced the cookers, installed a new production targets can be broken down to lighting system and created opportunities show exactly which workstation needs to for people to sit together in smaller generate what output to meet the target. groups. Alongside a more modern and This makes it easier to detect bottlenecks friendly overall design, our employees can and identify issues that are impeding now spend their breaks in the welcoming production. As our employees are the ones ambience of the new canteen. In addition manning the machines, they are the ones to the conversion work, we also agreed most familiar with the procedures. TPM upon changes to the menu with our local gives them the opportunity to optimize caterer. Because healthy nutrition for our processes and provides them with the employees is very important to us, we resources to improve their workplace arranged for more regional dishes, more environment and working conditions. seasonal dishes and generally more variety on the menu. For the same reason, we The safety of our employees is, of once again held a fruit day every week at course, very important to us. That is why our plant in New Bern. On one day a week, we renewed the production area floor we provided our employees with delicious markings at Drahtzug Stein Cusset in free apples, pears, bananas, oranges and LABOR 2016. We took the opportunity to redefine other fruits. the dimensions of the transport routes in 08 some areas to reduce hazard risks and DRAHTZUG ENVIRONMENT PRINCIPLE 7: Anyone leaving the Altleiningen parent plant In addition, the entire company family BUSINESSES SHOULD can immediately sense the proximity of follows the maxim that every investment SUPPORT A PRECAUTIONARY nature – just a few steps further and you must be tested for its environmental APPROACH TO ENVIRONMENare surrounded by it. Due to this physical impact before a decision is made. Within TAL CHALLENGES; closeness, a respect for nature has always the framework of economic efficiency, the been felt throughout the company. For most environmentally friendly variant will PRINCIPLE 8: UNDERTAKE INITIATIVES this reason, environmental awareness and then be chosen. In 2015, the Altleiningen TO PROMOTE GREATER environmental protection are deeply rooted at site finally achieved energy management ENVIRONMENTAL Drahtzug. certification according to ISO 50001, marking RESPONSIBILITY; AND a further step down the road towards more As far back as the 1950s, long before institutionalized environmental protection. PRINCIPLE 9: environmental protection was even an issue We are currently looking into measures that ENCOURAGE THE DEVELOPat all, Drahtzug descaled its rolled wire will allow us to transfer our experiences with MENT AND PROLIFERATION OF ENVIRONMENTALLY FRIENDLY using a purely mechanical process, thus ISO 50001 at Altleiningen to other locations. TECHNOLOGIES. avoiding the commonly used acids and other environmentally harmful chemicals. With the combination of the most resourceEven in the rest of the production process, saving production methods possible and the avoidance of unnecessary environmental clearly defined environmental targets, pollution has always been an important we are pursuing a clear goal: to move criterion. Furthermore, we optimize our away from purely resource-driven growth production processes from the very beginning towards sustainable growth based on to use as few resources as possible. Our the knowledge and innovation power experiences show that eco-friendly business of our employees. practices have made economic sense as well, for a long time. Following the positive experiences of recent years, we continued the modernization of our With the implementation of the ISO 14001 lighting in Altleiningen. In the goods dispatch environmental management standard in area, the old lamps were replaced by LED recent years, we have given our operational lamps. We also optimized illumination with a ENVIRONMENT environmental protection management variety of measures and equipped the area system a structured framework that now with motion sensors, so that the lighting only applies across all Drahtzug sites. comes on when someone is actually in the 09 area. DRAHTZUG In this way, we were able to replace several At Drahtzug Stein Cusset, we began to focus large case lights and save 10,000 kWh of on degreasing component parts by means of electricity per year. Likewise in Cusset, we biodegradable substances. Work on setting are continuing with the conversion of lighting up the appropriate plant has already begun. to LED systems. This will not only protect the environment but will also reduce health risks for our employees. This will enable us to save around 60 percent During 2016 at Drahtzug Stein Omim, we of the energy currently required for lighting. ran a major project to test the entire machine In the coating area and in the raw basket park for safety defects. Any problems assembly area at Drahtzug Stein Come, we identified were dealt with and the success have converted the lighting to LED lamps as of this measure has now been certified well. At the same time, we have improved the by an external auditor. We also optimized lighting of the working areas so that we have the arrangement of the machines at many saved energy while simultaneously improving workstations to enable our employees to working conditions. In the office areas and in work more ergonomically. The result of this parts of the warehouse, we have coupled the major initiative has been increased safety lighting to motion sensors so that it is only for both people and the environment. Even activated when needed. more critical was the replacement of the old pipeline that supplied the electroplating To reduce energy consumption during plant with sulfuric acid, for safety reasons. production, we ran a series of tests together Deposits had formed in the pipe over the with the supplier of the coating material years, which had increasingly jeopardized the for our dishwasher baskets at the coating safe operation of the plant. The old pipe was plant in Altleiningen to optimize temperature exchanged for a new, safe pipe that complies management. This was only possible with with all environmental requirements. Likewise the latest technology. Nevertheless, we were at Drahtzug Stein Omim, we replaced an able to precisely measure the temperature outdated gas control cabinet from the profile for each cycle that the product runs 1960s with a new model. This enabled us through and to use this data to optimize to eliminate the risk of leakage while also ENVIRONMENT energy consumption and the quality of the providing a museum with a new exhibit. coating. This has not only resulted in energy savings but has also given us the ability to 10 manufacture a better product. DRAHTZUG In the course of extensive improvements to the electroplating line in Lodz, we were able to implement several improvements at once. We made the existing cooling system for the chromium bath superfluous by means of a simple measure: the tap water that we use as a matter of course in the electroplating process is simply redirected in advance to the cooling of the chromium bath. The quality of the water remains unaffected while eliminating the cooling system saves energy. In addition, we have combined the air extraction systems of the electroplating line and the water treatment plant and significantly increased their performance. As a result, we have been able to almost completely remove the odor nuisance for employees. At the droplet separator of the electroplating line, we have also installed a chromium VI reduction reactor, which prevents chromium VI emissions into the air. We also installed an analytical filter water monitor that prevents contamination of the rainwater. We can now better monitor the condition of the droplet separator and thus prevent contamination from the filter ventilation system from spreading. ENVIRONMENT 11 DRAHTZUG ANTI-CORRUPTION PRINCIPLE 10: Compliance with all applicable law is a company philosophy and Code of Conduct, BUSINESSES SHOULD WORK mainstay of Drahtzug business conduct. We which is binding for all our employees. AGAINST CORRUPTION IN adhere to all relevant national and international We have also run training courses to raise ALL ITS FORMS, INCLUDING law at all times, regardless of our location or awareness of critical issues among our EXTORTION AND BRIBERY the location of the business. Furthermore, we employees. At the same time, these courses also respect several international conventions provided them with the necessary knowledge that we have chosen to recognize. to act in accordance with the law and with our own values. At each of our locations, To assist our employees in complying our employees have access to at least one with these legal standards and the ethical compliance coordinator as an on-site contact standards we have set ourselves, we person for questions surrounding compliance introduced a company-wide compliance issues. management system in 2016. This system also serves to protect the company and our Furthermore, to support our employees in their employees from the fallout of any misconduct. decision-making during their everyday work, By taking an active stance against illegal we issued materials that summarize the most actions such as corruption, infringements of important facts. For example, we developed antitrust law or acts of fraud, we communicate a comprehensive guideline detailing the to our employees, stakeholders and business circumstances under which employees can partners that Drahtzug will have no part in offer or accept gifts or invitations without illegal business practices. We do business running any risk and when to seek counsel. only in accordance with the law and with To make this guideline even easier to follow our own principles of integrity and mutual during everyday work, we issued a simple respect. By complying with these standards, one-sheet decision-making aid that details we minimize any risk of illegal business all restrictions and guides employees through transactions that could result in severe fines, the decision-making process. Additionally, jeopardizing the future of our company. the local compliance coordinators will follow up with training courses on the topic. On the ANTI-CORRUPTION In 2016, we made great progress in basis of these measures, we will continue establishing uniform standards of behavior to expand our compliance management in our company. An important milestone system, which is continually addressing new in this direction was the introduction of our challenges and improving processes. 12 company guidelines. These include our DRAHTZUG DRAHTZUG STEIN drahtwaren Talstraße 2 67317 Altleiningen Germany Tel: +49 6356 966-0 Fax: +49 6356 966-118 DRAHTZUG STEIN cusset DRAHTZUG STEIN saprofil 12, Boulevard Alsace Lorraine Z. l. des Fruchardières BP 20045 5, rue Clément Ader 03300 Cusset Cedex 85340 Olonne-sur-Mer France France Tel: +33 470 309760 Tel: +33 251 211309 Fax: +33 470 309769 Fax: +33 251 957410 DRAHTZUG STEIN come DRAHTZUG STEIN omim Via Monferrato, 4 Via J.F. Kennedy, 8 15030 Conzano (AL) 30027 San Donà di Piave (VE) Italy Italy P.I. 02106020064 P.I. 02106020064 Tel: +39 0142 925545 Tel: +39 0421 497511 Fax: +39 0142 924211 Fax: +39 0421 497598 DRAHTZUG STEIN łodź DRAHTZUG STEIN usa ul. Techniczna 8/10 197 Bosch Blvd. 92-518 Łodź New Bern NC 28562 Poland USA Tel: +48 4225 42000 Tel: +1 252 637-9660 Fax: +48 4225 42020 Fax: +1 252 635-9473 CREATED 04/2017 DRAHTZUG holding Tel: +49 6356 966-0 info@drahtzug.com 67317 Altleiningen (Germany) Fax: +49 6356 966-118 www.drahtzug.com
