Sustainability Report 2016 The energy we produce serves to power economic growth and lift people out of poverty. In the future, the way heat, light and mobility are delivered will change. We aim to anchor our business in these changing patterns of demand, rather than in the quest for supply. We have a real contribution to make to the world’s ambition of a low carbon future. For a secure, affordable and sustainable energy future. bp.com/sustainability Overview Taking action on Focusing on safe Maximizing value Respecting Managing local Foundations for climate change operations to society human rights environmental impacts operating responsibly Introduction In recent months, we have set out our fewer incidents and injuries across the strategy for the coming decades, integrating business. This was in a year in which we our ambition to be a safe, strong, successful increased our activities, with an additional from our group business with our aspiration to be a good corporate citizen and part of the solution 13 million hours of working time. However, we did suffer three workforce fatalities in chief executive to climate change. 2016, a loss of life that we deeply regret. As this report explains, we are taking actions Our strategic framework is rooted in society’s to manage risk, such as working more closely need to use more energy while reducing with contractors, including joint simulation carbon emissions. It reflects a changing global exercises, and using technologies such as fuel mix in which oil remains important but is sensors and crawler robots to detect used more efficiently; the cleanest traditional potential problems and keep our people fuel, natural gas, is a vital energy source in a away from harm. lower carbon economy; and renewables grow faster than any other form of energy. Our future depends on our people – their health, safety, capability and dedication. In The four priorities of our strategic framework 2016, I was encouraged to see in our surveys are aligned with these trends. First, we plan to that their levels of confidence, pride and trust run a highly competitive upstream business rose, despite tough circumstances and a with an expanding gas portfolio. Second, we further reduction in staff numbers. That says will have a market-led downstream business a lot about the resilience and spirit of the BP providing fuels and lubricants that help make team. I am also proud that we have a truly vehicles more efficient and lessen their global, diverse workforce, with large numbers carbon impact. Third, we will run a growing of citizens of the countries where we work. renewable energy business, alongside a dynamic venturing arm. Fourth, we will I believe that global companies with clear underpin all of these businesses with an values can act as a stabilizing and positive We have set out our ongoing drive to modernize BP and maximize efficiency in ways which are good for force in local communities and this report shows how we approach that role. We strategy for the coming business and good for the environment. invest in education, enterprise and energy sustainability – from the Enterprising Science decades, integrating our The environmental dimension of this strategy programme for teachers in the UK to support builds on two decades of action and advocacy ambition to be a safe, on climate change, which saw important new for hospitals and small businesses in Egypt. We act to support labour rights among our strong, successful steps in 2016. We made strong progress with our large natural gas projects and signed suppliers, and we enforce a zero-tolerance business with our long-term gas supply agreements in policy towards bribery and facilitation payments. We assess and respond to Azerbaijan, Egypt, Indonesia, Oman and aspiration to be a good elsewhere, providing a cleaner alternative environmental and social issues raised by our operations, from piloting new technologies for corporate citizen and part to higher emissions fuels at scale. And to air quality monitoring in Azerbaijan to helping maximize the potential of gas, we are of the solution to climate investigating how we can best reduce the to build a new water pumping station for a community in Iraq. change. methane emissions of our operations. We now have the largest operated renewables Wherever we work, we stand by our values business among our peers, with major of safety, respect, excellence, courage and biofuels and wind businesses employing one team. There is much still to do, but if we Sustainability is at the heart of BP’s strategy. more than 5,000 people. can continue to deliver meaningful benefits Ours is a long-term business and I believe that to our many stakeholders as well as building our company will only prosper over the long BP also supports a series of low carbon a business that is both economically and term if we operate safely and fulfil a positive start-up companies through our venturing environmentally sound, then I believe BP role in society. In particular, the energy team. The industry Oil and Gas Climate can look ahead to a successful future as a transition underway poses a significant Initiative, which I chair, announced sustainable business in a sustainable world. challenge – how to meet the world’s $1 billion of investment in low carbon increasing demand for energy while, at the technologies, initially focused on reducing same time, reducing carbon emissions. methane emissions from gas production and Every part of our business has a tremendous accelerating deployment of carbon capture, contribution to bring to this. use and storage. Large companies have responsibilities to In 2016, these steps to build a sustainable Bob Dudley multiple groups. I take pride in the fact that BP future came at the same time as we Group chief executive not only provides returns for our shareholders, responded to the short-term pressures of 6 April 2017 but billions in tax revenues to support public the business environment, maintaining critical services, jobs for staff and suppliers, and of investments for safety and future growth course, heat, light and mobility for customers while acting to control costs and increase – enabling millions to enjoy higher standards our operational and financial resilience. More information of living around the world. As Henry Ford said: Safety will always be our top priority and the BP’s role in a lower carbon future “A business that makes nothing but money is record for last year shows that we broadly Pages 12-13 a poor business.” held the gains made since 2010, with many Governance of sustainability issues Page 41 BP Sustainability Report 2016 1 Our key issues We report on the issues which matter most to our stakeholders and our business. We engage We listen We assess We talk to our stakeholders – the Our stakeholders often have differing We prioritize the issues according many individuals and organizations priorities. For an environmental NGO, to how important they are to our who are affected by BP’s activities for example, the immediate focus may stakeholders and how they could – throughout the year. be on how we manage any potential impact BP’s ability to deliver its impacts of our activities on sensitive strategy. We validate this with internal areas, while for a government and external stakeholders, our representative, the contribution we assurance provider, Ernst & Young, make to the local community may and our board committee responsible be the priority. for sustainability-related issues. Our stakeholders Commonly asked questions How is BP’s How are you maintaining Energy Outlook integrated into safety in a low oil price your strategy? environment? See pages 12-13. See page 22. In preparing our 2016 report, we met with around 100 different organizations around the world, How do you assign What are you including investors, nondoing to reduce governmental organizations accountability for methane (NGOs), industry associations, sustainability in BP? emissions? business partners, shareholders See page 41. See page 15. and analysts. We also held sessions with our employees to find out how they use our report and what they would like us to cover. The input and feedback How does your Are you looking How are you we received has helped inform approach change to increase your managing human this report. in water-stressed renewables rights in your areas? portfolio? supply chain? See page 37. See page 16. See pages 34-35. 2 BP Sustainability Report 2016 Overview Taking action on Focusing on safe Maximizing value Respecting Managing local Foundations for climate change operations to society human rights environmental impacts operating responsibly We report We include issues in our report if we We have structured the report by our Global issues Local issues assess them as being either medium material issues – starting with global or high materiality in terms of issues before moving on to how we stakeholder concern and business manage our impacts at a local level. impact. Our material issues tend This is underpinned by our people, to be consistent year to year. In governance and practices for 2016, air quality and supply chain managing our business. management were issues that Foundations for operating responsibly gained greater prominence. Our material issues Taking action on climate change BP’s role in a lower carbon future Natural gas and methane Page 10 Renewable energy Operational emissions Focusing on safe operations Process safety Personal health and safety Page 21 Transportation safety Security and crisis management Maximizing value to society Supporting local development Engaging with communities Page 27 Revenue transparency Anti-bribery and corruption Respecting human rights Our approach to human rights Labour rights Page 32 Security and human rights Managing local Water Air quality Page 36 environmental impacts Biodiversity and sensitive areas Foundations for Governance of sustainability issues Our people Page 40 operating responsibly Ethical conduct How we manage risk More information How we run our business Pages 4-5 Five-year performance data Pages 8-9 Assurance statement Page 48 BP Sustainability Report 2016 3 How we run our business From the deep sea to the desert, Enabling our business model from rigs to retail, we deliver energy products and services to people Safe and reliable operations Talented people around the world. We provide customers with fuel for transport, We strive to create and maintain a safe We work to attract, motivate, develop and energy for heat and light, lubricants operating culture where safety is front and retain the best talent the world offers – our centre. This is not only safer for people performance and ability to thrive globally to keep engines moving and the and the environment – it also improves the depends on it. petrochemicals products used to reliability of our assets. make everyday items as diverse as paints, clothes and packaging. See Focusing on safe operations on p21. See Our people on p42. Our diverse portfolio is balanced across businesses, resource types and geographies. Having upstream and downstream businesses, along with well-established Finding oil and gas trading capabilities, helps to mitigate the impact of lower oil and gas prices. Our geographic reach gives us access to growing markets and new resources, as well as diversifying exposure to geopolitical events. Our role in society The energy we produce helps to support economic growth and improve quality of life for millions of people. We strive to be a world-class operator, a responsible corporate citizen and a good employer. We believe that the societies and communities we work in should benefit from our presence. In supplying energy we contribute to economies around the world by employing local staff, helping to develop national and local suppliers, and through the taxes we pay to governments. Additionally, Developing and extracting oil and gas we aim to create meaningful and sustainable impacts in those communities through our social investments. Creating value Finding oil and gas Our upstream pipeline of future projects gives $11.2bn New access allows us to renew our portfolio, us choice about which we pursue. We also seek to grow or extend the life of employee wages and benefits discover additional resources and replenish existing fields and are using new business our development options. We focus our models to increase value. Our US Lower 48 exploration activities in the areas that are onshore business and Aker BP in Norway are competitive in the portfolio. We develop and two examples of how we’ve used innovative $2.2bn use technology to reduce costs and risks. new business models in response to the competitive environment. taxes paid to governments – Developing and extracting comprising income and oil and gas Transporting and trading production taxes We create value by seeking to progress We move oil and gas through pipelines and by hydrocarbon resources and turn them into ship, truck and rail. We also trade a variety of $7.5bn proved reserves, or sell them on if they do not products including oil, natural gas, liquefied fit with our strategic priorities. We develop and natural gas, power and currencies. Our traders produce the resources that meet our return complete around 550,000 transactions and total dividends distributed to BP threshold, which we then sell to the market serve more than 12,000 customers across shareholders or distribute to our downstream facilities. some 140 countries in a year. 4 BP Sustainability Report 2016 Overview Taking action on Focusing on safe Maximizing value Respecting Managing local Foundations for climate change operations to society human rights environmental impacts operating responsibly Technology, innovation and venturing Partnerships and collaboration Governance and oversight New technologies are enabling us to produce We aim to build enduring relationships with Our risk management systems and policy energy safely and more efficiently. We governments, customers, partners, suppliers provide a consistent and clear framework selectively research and invest in areas with and communities in the countries where for managing and reporting risks. The board the potential to add greatest value to our we operate. regularly reviews how we identify, evaluate business now and in the future. and manage risks. See Investing in start-ups on p17. See Maximizing value to society on p27. See How we manage risk on p44. Transporting and trading Manufacturing Generating renewable energy We use our market intelligence to analyse Our lubricants business has premium brands one of the world’s most sustainable and supply and demand for commodities across and access to growth markets. It also advantaged feedstocks to produce low our global network. This helps us deliver leverages technology and customer carbon ethanol and low carbon power. what the market needs, when it needs it, relationships, all of which we believe gives We provide renewable power through identify the best markets for BP’s crude us competitive advantage. We serve our significant interests in onshore wind oil, source optimal raw materials for our automotive, industrial, marine and energy energy in the US. We develop and deploy refineries and provide competitive supply markets across the world. technology in our wind business to drive for our marketing businesses. And in petrochemicals our proprietary efficiency and capacity. technology solutions deliver leading cost Manufacturing and marketing positions compared to our competitors. In addition to our own petrochemicals plants, fuels and products we work with partners and license our We produce petroleum products at our technology to third parties. refineries and supply distinctive fuel and convenience retail services to consumers. Generating renewable energy Our advantaged infrastructure, logistics network and key partnerships help us to We have the largest operated renewables More information have differentiated businesses and deliver business among our oil and gas peers. We Providing renewable energy compelling customer offers. operate a biofuels business in Brazil, using Page 16 Foundations for operating responsibly Page 40 BP Sustainability Report 2016 5 BP around the world We are a global energy company Scale with wide reach across the world’s energy system. We have operations in Europe, North and 18,000 72 $187.3bn South America, Australasia, Asia retail sites countries economic value generated and Africa. 6,000+ 3.3 marine voyages completed million barrels of oil by BP-operated and equivalent per day chartered vessels BP in action Highlights of some of our Announced plans to Enhanced our human rights Launched our low carbon activities in 2016. optimize wind business due diligence process for and carbon neutral PTA – BP is one of the top using spot-chartered vessels brand. See p20. producers of wind energy in the North Sea. See p35. Entered into a strategic in the US. See p16. partnership with Fulcrum BioEnergy – a company that produces sustainable jet fuel from household waste. See p20. Reached production of three billion barrels of oil at our Rumaila joint venture. For local community engagement see p30. Tested technology that aims to enhance safety on our offshore platforms in the Acquired interests in gas Gulf of Mexico. exploration blocks in See p22-23. offshore Mauritania and Senegal. Achieved a 100% Started up the In Salah Agreed to extend the rating for sustainability Southern Fields gas Khazzan gas field, with performance at one of our project in central Algeria. production expected to biofuels mills in Brazil. meet 40% of Oman’s See p16. domestic gas supply. 6 BP Sustainability Report 2016 Overview Taking action on Focusing on safe Maximizing value Respecting Managing local Foundations for climate change operations to society human rights environmental impacts operating responsibly BP employees by region BP employees by segment 6 5 1. Europe 30,600 3 1. Upstream 18,700 1 4 2. US and Canada 14,600 2. Downstream 41,800 1 3. Asia Pacific 14,300 3. Other businesses 14,000 4. South and and corporate Central America 7,200 Total 74,500 3 5. Middle East and North Africa 5,600 6. Sub-Saharan Africa 2,200 2 2 Data as at 31 December 2016. Total 74,500 Increased gas recovery from offshore operations in the Caspian Sea. See p18. Signed the largest deal yet in China’s emerging carbon trading market. See p14. Launched a diesel lubricant in India that uses re-refined engine oil as its base. See p20. Gained approval to expand our Tangguh LNG plant, building on a decade-long commitment to the local community. See p28. Piloted pre-contract audits of potential suppliers on labour rights in Malaysia. See p34. BP Sustainability Report 2016 7 Our performance Data on our sustainability performance from 2012-2016. Safety a 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Fatalities – employees 1 4 0 0 0 Fatalities – contractors 3 2 3 1 3 Day away from work cases – workforce 152 130 145 108 94 Day away from work case frequencyb (DAFWCF) – workforce 0.076 0.070 0.081 0.061 0.051 Recordable injuries – workforce 710 578 547 428 385 Recordable injury frequencyb (RIF) – workforce 0.35 0.31 0.31 0.24 0.21 Tier 1 process safety eventsc (number) 43 20 28 20 16 Tier 2 process safety eventsc (number) 154 110 95 83 84 Losses of primary containmentd (number) 292 261 286 235 275 Oil spillse – number (> one barrel) 204 185 156 146 149 Oil spills contained 102 111 93 91 91 Oil spills reaching land and water 102 74 63 55 58 Oil spills – volume (million litres) 0.8 0.7 0.4 0.4 0.7 Oil unrecovered (million litres) 0.3 0.3 0.2 0.1 0.3 Indicators linking to our strategy and 2016 remuneration Reported recordable injury frequencyab Tier 1 process safety eventsac Loss of primary containmentad 2016 0.21 2016 16 2016 233 275 2015 0.24 2015 20 2015 208 235 2014 0.31 2014 28 2014 246 286 2013 0.31 2013 20 2013 261 2012 0.35 2012 43 2012 292 0.2 0.4 0.6 20 40 60 100 200 300 400 Greenhouse gas emissions f 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Direct carbon dioxide (CO 2) (million tonnes (Mte)) 56.4 47.0 45.5 45.1 g 46.1 Direct methane (Mte) 0.17 0.16 0.15 0.16 0.16 Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) (MteCO 2 equivalent (CO 2e)) 59.8 50.3 48.7h 49.0 i 50.1 Indirect carbon dioxide (CO 2)j (Mte) 8.4 6.7 6.8 6.9 6.2 Real sustainable reductions in GHG emissionsk (Mte) 0.2 0.2 0.1 0.1 0.3 Greenhouse gas intensity (TeCO 2 equivalent/unit) Upstream (per thousand barrels of oil equivalent) 29.2 30.1 32.0 l 32.7m 34.7 Refining (per utilized equivalent distillation capacity) 901 995 978 944 951 Petrochemicals (per thousand tonnes) 293 283 291 290 287 Flaringn (upstream) (thousand tonnes (kte) of hydrocarbons) 1,548 2,028 2,188 1,863 1,896 Customer emissionso (MteCO 2) 517 422 406 402 395 Carbon dioxide avoided through our renewables businessp (MteCO2e) 2.4 2.9 3.2 3.3 3.1 a This represents reported incidents occurring within BP’s d Loss of primary containment is the number of unplanned or f We provide data on GHG emissions material to our operational HSSE reporting boundary. That boundary uncontrolled releases of oil, gas, or other hazardous materials businesses on a carbon dioxide-equivalent basis. This includes BP’s own operated facilities and certain other from a tank, vessel, pipe, railcar or other equipment used includes CO2 and methane for direct emissions. This locations or situations. for containment or transfer. Figures for 2014 to 2016 include encompasses all BP’s consolidated entities as well as b DAFWCF and RIF are the annual frequency per 200,000 increased reporting due to the introduction of enhanced our share of equity-accounted entities other than hours worked. automated monitoring for remote sites in our US Lower 48 BP’s share of TNK-BP and Rosneft for the relevant periods. business. Using a like-for-like approach with previous years’ g The reported 2015 figure has been amended from 45.0. c We report tier 1 process safety events, which are losses of reporting, our LOPC figure is 233 (2015 208, 2014 246). primary containment of greatest consequence – causing h The reported 2014 figure has been amended from 48.6. harm to a member of the workforce, costly damage to e Oil spills are defined as any liquid hydrocarbon release of more than, or equal to, one barrel (159 litres, equivalent to i The reported 2015 figure has been amended from 48.9. equipment or exceeding defined quantities. Tier 2 events are those of lesser consequence. 42 US gallons). j Indirect emissions are associated with the purchase of electricity, heat, steam or cooling into our operations. 8 BP Sustainability Report 2016 Overview Taking action on Focusing on safe Maximizing value Respecting Managing local Foundations for climate change operations to society human rights environmental impacts operating responsibly Value to society 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Benefits to employees – including wages, salaries, share-based payments, benefits and pensions ($ million) 13,448 13,654 13,936 12,928 11,233 Taxes to governments – comprising income taxes and production taxes paid ($ million) 15,064 13,904 7,980 3,516 2,174 Total dividends distributed to BP shareholdersq ($ million) 6,276 6,911 7,168 7,301 7,469 Contribution to communities ($ million) 90.6 103.8 85.0 67.2 61.1 Environment 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Freshwater consumption (million m ) r 3 – 106 93 92 87 Percentage of withdrawalr – 37 33 32 34 Water consumption intensity – group (tonnes water/tonnes production)r – – 0.37 0.38 0.36 Freshwater withdrawal 354 289 280 285 257 Air emissions – nitrogen oxides (thousand tonnes) 140 129 129 123 125 Air emissions – sulphur oxides (thousand tonnes) 51 41 39 36 36 Air emissions – non-methane hydrocarbons (thousand tonnes) 114 102 99 94 91 Environmental expenditures ($ million) 7,230 4,288 4,024 8,017 536 Environmental and safety finest ($ million) 22.4 2.5 1.0 0.6 15.0 Our people and culture 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Number of employees – group 86,400 83,900 84,500 79,800 74,500 Number of employees – group leadership 546 530 501 431 394 Women in group leadership (%) 17 18 18 19 22 Women at management levelu (%) 25 27 27 28 29 People from UK and US racial minorities in group leadershipv (%) 6 6 8 7 7 People from beyond the UK and US in group leadershipv (%) 20 22 22 23 26 Employee turnover w 13 15 12 16 16 OpenTalk casesx 1,295 1,121 1,114 1,158 956 Dismissals for non-compliance and unethical behaviour yz 424 113 157 132 109 Data tool See bp.com/hsechartingtool for 10-year data on BP’s health, safety and environmental performance. k This measure reflects actions taken by our businesses that q This includes dividends paid in cash and scrip dividends. v This excludes our share of those employed by joint reduce their GHG emissions. See page 19. r Data for freshwater consumption and percentage of operations in legal entities. l The reported 2014 figure has been amended from 31.9. withdrawal was not reported in 2012 and water consumption w These figures relate to non-retail employees only. In 2016 intensity data was not reported in 2012 and 2013. voluntary turnover (resignations and retirements) was 4%. m The reported 2015 figure has been amended from 32.4. s Environmental expenditure was substantially higher in x Any employee, contractor or other third party can contact n We report the total hydrocarbons flared from our upstream previous years due to environmental and spill response costs our confidential helpline, OpenTalk. operations. relating to the Gulf of Mexico oil spill. y This excludes dismissals of staff employed at our retail o Based on BP’s total reported production of natural gas, t The increase in 2016 is primarily due to a fine received by BP service stations. natural gas liquids and refinery throughputs. West Coast Products, LLC. For further information see page z In 2012 this data included employee and contractor p Based on BP’s total ethanol production and wind generating 267 of BP’s Annual Report and Form 20-F 2016. dismissals. From 2013 this figure includes employee capacity. The 2016 figure decreased due to lower sugar cane u Includes employees who are group leaders, senior level dismissals only. yields and the divestment of our stake in a wind farm. leaders or in other management positions. BP Sustainability Report 2016 9 Taking action on climate change Working with others, BP can help drive the transition to a lower carbon future. We want to bring down our greenhouse gas emissions – while supplying the affordable energy the world needs. What we are doing CO2 Calling for a price on carbon 14 Supplying natural gas and 15 managing methane Providing renewable energy 16 Investing in start-ups and 17 innovation Pursuing efficient operations 18 Helping our customers reduce 20 emissions 10 BP Sustainability Report 2016 Overview Taking action on Focusing on safe Maximizing value Respecting Managing local Foundations for climate change operations to society human rights environmental impacts operating responsibly Two decades of helping to tackle climate change 1997 BP’s chief executive, Lord Browne, calls for precautionary action to cut greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. 1998 • BP sets target to cut emissions from our operations to 10% below 1990 levels by 2010. We met this target in 2001. • BP pilots an internal emissions trading scheme, helping to demonstrate the viability of emissions trading for the industry. 1999 BP is a founding member of the International Emissions Trading Association. 2000 • BP initiates the CO2 Capture Project with other companies and governments, to Being part of the solution develop carbon capture and storage (CCS) technology. With the Paris Agreement, almost 200 • BP partners with Princeton University on governments agreed to hold temperature the Carbon Mitigation Initiative, set up to rise to well below 2oC and to pursue efforts find solutions to the carbon and climate to limit temperature rise to 1.5oC. This has problem. energized countries, companies and 2003 consumers to take action. Tsinghua-BP Clean Energy Research and Education Center launches in China. 2004 As scientists and engineers, BP recognizes BP and partners launch a CCS project the urgency of the climate challenge – and 2005 at the In Salah gas field in Algeria. we intend to be part of the solution. We are calling for a price on carbon, increasing gas BP launches its Alternative Energy in our upstream portfolio, investing in business. 2006 renewables and low carbon innovation, BP launches Target Neutral, our not-forand pursuing energy efficiency. profit carbon offsetting programme for customers. We are also collaborating with others to 2009 help address this global challenge. As one • BP begins using a carbon price in example, the Oil and Gas Climate Initiative investment decisions. – currently chaired by our group chief • BP sets up the Energy Sustainability executive Bob Dudley – brings together 10 Challenge, partnering with oil and gas companies working to reduce 15 universities. 2011 the GHG emissions from our industry’s BP becomes the largest operator of Brazil operations and the use of our products. biofuels among our oil and gas peers. The initiative’s current focus areas are 2014 minimizing methane emissions and • BP starts participating in the Oil and Gas accelerating the deployment of carbon Climate Initiative. capture, use and storage. • BP  endorses the World Bank carbon pricing statement. 2015 Caption: Bob Dudley, BP’s group chief executive, • BP signs up to the World Bank Zero with Janos Pasztor, the UN’s senior adviser on Routine Flaring by 2030 initiative. climate change, at the OGCI 2016 annual meeting. • BP joins the Climate and Clean Air 2016 Coalition’s Oil and Gas Methane • BP completes detailed assessments Partnership. of many of its upstream operations to • BP launches Zhuhai 3 petrochemical identify primary sources of methane plant, delivering 65% lower GHG emissions. emissions than comparable plants. • BP is world’s first supplier of commercial jet biofuel using existing infrastructure at Norway’s Oslo airport. • BP launches PTAir – with around a 30% lower carbon footprint than average European purified terephthalic acid production. BP Sustainability Report 2016 11 BP’s role in a BP’s strategy – our priorities lower carbon Our strategic priorities help us to deliver heat, light and mobility solutions for a changing world. future Shift to gas and We are investing in new large-scale gas projects and focusing on quality oil BP is working to make advantaged oil projects in core basins – such as those in Abu Dhabi, Azerbaijan and the Gulf of sure our business Mexico – while moving away from is sustainable – projects that don’t fit our strategy, like the Great Australian Bight. commercially, environmentally and in Market-led growth We are developing and producing fuels and lubricants to make the cars of today a lower carbon future. in the downstream and tomorrow more efficient, thus reducing greenhouse gas emissions. The global energy landscape is changing. The This includes new lubricants that energy mix is shifting, driven by technological incorporate plant-based or recycled oils. improvements and environmental concerns. And, we are establishing retail services Fast-growing emerging markets are overtaking to support electric vehicles. traditional centres of demand. The energy transition underway poses a Venturing and We are optimizing and growing our biofuels and wind businesses and significant challenge – how to meet the world’s low carbon across investing in new low carbon business growing demand for energy while also reducing models to meet changing consumer and carbon emissions. That creates important multiple fronts policy expectations. We will also develop choices and opportunities for BP and our partnerships and invest in start-up industry. companies to access innovation and We are evolving our strategy – allowing us to accelerate technology development. be competitive in a time when prices, policy, technology and customer preferences are changing. Our strategy anticipates a range of Modernizing the We are modernizing and transforming our operational performance. We are scenarios to give us flexibility in our approach, whole group developing creative business models rather than pursuing a single view of the future. when working with partners, such as collaborating with automakers to improve We believe having a balanced portfolio and a fuel efficiency and reduce emissions. dynamic investment strategy give us the resilience to meet the challenge. See bp.com/strategy The changing Growing demand for energy and we estimate that, as a result of rapid improvements in their competitiveness, Affordable energy is essential for economic they will contribute around 10% by 2035. world of energy prosperity. Energy provides heat and light for Over the same period, we think oil and natural homes, fuel for transportation and power for gas are likely to continue to play a significant industry. And, everyday objects – from plastics part in meeting demand for energy. They to fabrics – are derived from oil. The energy world is changing at a pace currently account for around 56% of total not seen in decades. BP is ready for We expect world demand for energy to energy consumption. By 2035, we think oil will the opportunities and challenges this brings. increase by around 30% between 2015 and have around a 29% share, with annual growth 2035 – largely driven by rising incomes in slowing down over this period. Meanwhile we Energy mix is shifting emerging economies. The extent of this believe the share of gas will go up slightly to increase is being curbed by gains in energy New technologies and consumer preferences 25% of global energy, placing it ahead of coal efficiency, as there is greater attention around for low carbon energy are leading to changes and not far behind oil. the world on using energy more sustainably. in the fuel mix, resulting in a gradual BP is gearing up to meet this shifting demand decarbonization. by increasing its gas and renewables activities. Renewables are the fastest-growing energy We don’t expect our oil and gas portfolio to source. They are expected to increase at be ‘stranded’ in the future. This is because around 7% a year and account for 40% of we produce and replace our proved reserves the growth in power generation over the next over a 15-year time frame on average – which two decades. Renewables currently contribute gives us the flexibility to shift our investment around 3% of total global energy demand, strategy. 12 BP Sustainability Report 2016 Overview Taking action on Focusing on safe Maximizing value Respecting Managing local Foundations for climate change operations to society human rights environmental impacts operating responsibly Advances in technology We prioritize certain new technologies for Lower oil price environment in-depth analysis – based on their fit with our Emerging technologies – such as improved Oil prices have been substantially lower strategy and how soon and likely we think they batteries, solar conversion, electricity storage since 2014, primarily due to oversupply. are to break through technological and and autonomous vehicles – are accelerating the The market is gradually readjusting, as both commercial barriers. energy transition. For example, the base case demand and supply respond to lower prices. scenario in our Energy Outlook suggests that Read about our investment in potentially However, the high level of oil inventories the use of electric vehicles will grow almost transformational technologies on page 17. suggests this adjustment is likely to take one hundred-fold by 2035. That means that some time. about 6% of the cars on the road would be Emerging greenhouse gas policy In line with our refreshed strategy, we test electric, with a reduction in total oil demand and regulation our investments against a range of oil and of around one million barrels a day. However, Governments are putting in place taxes, gas prices to check their profitability over a faster mobility revolution – including car carbon trading schemes and other measures the long term. We take into account current sharing, ride pooling, autonomous vehicles to limit greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. price levels and our long-term outlook. and electric cars – could reduce oil demand We expect around two-thirds of BP’s direct by several times that amount. emissions will be in countries subject to Our Technology Outlook shows how 2014 2015 2016 emissions and carbon policies by 2020. technology can play a major role in meeting the To help anticipate greater regulatory energy challenge by widening energy resource requirements for GHG emissions, we factor a choices, transforming the power sector, carbon cost into our own investment decisions improving transport efficiency and helping to and engineering designs for large new projects address climate concerns out to 2050. and those for which emissions costs would be See bp.com/technologyoutlook a material part of the project. In industrialized countries, this is currently $40 per tonne of $98.95 CO2 equivalent, and we also stress test at a $52.39 $43.73 carbon price of $80 per tonne. Our carbon cost, along with energy efficiency considerations, encourages Brent dated average crude oil prices ($/barrel) projects to be set up in a way that will have lower GHG emissions. A changing energy mix Energy consumption – billion tonnes of oil equivalenta Change in CO2 emissions from 2015 2035 Even faster transition 26% 22% 13% 23% 9% 8% 32% 2035 Faster transition 28% 23% 18% 16% 8% 7% 12% 2035 Base case 29% 25% 23% 10% 7% 5% 13% 2015 Actual energy mix 32% 24% 29% 3% 7% 4% 0 3 6 9 12 15 18 Oil Gas Coal Renewables Hydro Nuclear a The sum of the fuel shares may not equal 100% due to rounding. Energy Outlook Base case Faster transition Even faster transition BP Energy Outlook provides our This scenario outlines our This scenario sees carbon prices This scenario matches the path projections of future energy trends view of the most likely path for in leading economies rise to of the International Energy and factors that could affect them energy to 2035. The growing $100/tonne by 2035 and policy Agency’s ‘450 scenario’, out to 2035. The three scenarios world economy will require interventions encourage more which aims to limit the global reflect different assumptions more energy but consumption rapid efficiency gains and fuel temperature rise to 2ºC. about the pace of the energy will increase less quickly than switching. transition due to factors such as in the past. policy and consumer behaviour. BP Sustainability Report 2016 13 Calling for a A global carbon price We need governments across the world BP and carbon trading There are currently 17 carbon trading systems price on carbon to provide us with clear, stable, long-term, operating across four continents with more in ambitious policy frameworks. We were the pipeline. pleased to see that the Paris Agreement BP has been active in these markets since their creates the possibility for carbon pricing inception, starting in Europe and expanding to BP believes that carbon to help deliver global goals and national the US, New Zealand and China. For example, contributions for reducing GHG emissions. pricing by governments We recognize different national prices are a BP offers a portfolio of emission credits in California, including carbon offsets generated is the best policy to limit necessary and practical first step but would through forestry management. And in 2016 we GHG emissions. like to see convergence towards a single global carbon price over time. signed the largest deal yet in China’s emerging carbon trading market for four million tonnes (Mte) of CO2. Putting a price on carbon – one that treats all In the meantime, any national carbon pricing carbon equally, whether it comes out of a mechanism should address the impacts of In 2016 our financing of low carbon project smokestack or a car exhaust – would make unequal international competition. Otherwise activities resulted in annual emissions energy efficiency more attractive and lower there is a risk of carbon leakage, meaning reductions of more than 20Mte of CO2 carbon energy sources, such as natural gas that energy-intensive industrial activity equivalent in the form of offsets. As reference, and renewables, more cost competitive. and investment could just move from one that’s equal to 40% of our direct emissions. country to a less-regulated part of the world A carbon price incentivizes both energy – potentially increasing their associated producers and consumers to reduce their GHGs worldwide. greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. It can reduce emissions at a larger scale and Our advocacy efforts at lower cost than alternative policy measures We endorsed the World Bank carbon pricing by reducing the demand for carbon-intensive statement and in 2015 joined other oil products. and gas companies in calling on the UN and Pricing carbon obviously adds a cost to our governments to put a price on carbon. production and our products – but would help We are working with our peers and other provide a roadmap for future investment, a parts of the private sector, governments level playing field for all energy sources across and civil society to help support the geographies and a clear role in securing a more expansion and implementation of carbon sustainable future. pricing, through our membership of the Carbon Pricing Leadership Coalition. How carbon pricing works We believe a global carbon price would help to provide the right incentives for everyone – energy producers and consumers alike – to play their part. Where it starts How it works Who it affects Governments Carbon tax Energy producers Across the world, more than This imposes a direct fee on Producers, such as BP, pay for the GHGs 40 countries are developing GHGs emitted. This carbon emitted by their operations. They are mechanisms to put a price on price is achieved by setting a encouraged to seek solutions to reduce carbon. These government consistent cost per tonne of their emissions – through energy initiatives aim to provide CO2 (or CO2 equivalent) efficiency and innovation in lower financial incentives to released into the atmosphere. carbon technologies. producers and consumers to reduce GHG emissions. This can be implemented either Cap-and-trade system End consumers through a carbon tax or a cap-and-trade scheme. This issues permits for sectors Businesses and households ultimately or whole economies to emit pay more for carbon-intensive goods and GHGs up to a total fixed limit or services. They are motivated to use less ‘cap’. Participants must acquire energy, choose more energy-efficient these permits to cover their products and favour lower carbon own emissions, with the price energy products. set by market forces. 14 BP Sustainability Report 2016 Overview Taking action on Focusing on safe Maximizing value Respecting Managing local Foundations for climate change operations to society human rights environmental impacts operating responsibly Supplying through to the delivery of gas to customers. In the US we use a process called green We are working with Imperial College London completions at our gas operations. This through the Oil and Gas Climate Initiative to process captures natural gas that would natural gas and compare GHG and air emissions across different gas and coal supply chains to identify otherwise be flared or vented during the completion and commissioning of wells. managing the most effective ways to reduce GHG Another technique to reduce methane emissions. Our life cycle analysis of the emissions is to replace gas-driven pneumatic liquefied natural gas from our Tangguh plant in equipment. For example, at our San Juan methane Indonesia shows that the GHG emissions from that gas are at least 50% lower than coal. operations, we use solar energy to power equipment and that has led to a reduction in methane emissions and gas that would Improving data reliability otherwise be vented. As we increase gas in our We are working to build a more reliable and We have complex operational sites and portfolio, we are taking complete picture of methane – one that pipelines that can stretch through hundreds provides a set of global data categorized by of miles of difficult terrain. Depending on the action to reduce methane different types of gas fields and operations. location, we use infrared cameras, centralized emissions. For example, through the Climate and Clean Air monitoring stations, sniffer dogs (see page 45), Coalition’s Oil and Gas Methane Partnership, or other techniques to detect gas leaks. We believe natural gas is a vital lower carbon we are deepening our industry’s understanding of the core sources that account for the bulk of We inspect our major operations for leaks at energy source. It produces about half as much methane emissions in upstream operations. least annually – and often more frequently greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions as coal This will help to inform actions we can take to depending on the technique used. when burned to generate power and it can serve as a back-up for intermittent renewable reduce emissions. energy sources. All this activity builds on the work we have carried out over the past 15 years to estimate Our infrared cameras have been a valuable In the US, the growing use of shale gas has methane emissions from our own operations. addition to the way we manage our methane had a significant impact on carbon dioxide We calculate that our methane intensity – that emissions. The technology supplements our (CO2) emissions, which have fallen back to is, methane emissions as a percentage of existing gas detection equipment, so we can 1990s levels. marketed gas production – is around 0.2%. identify and intervene on small seeps before they become more hazardous gas leaks. A growing natural gas portfolio In 2015 and 2016 we conducted detailed They’ve proved so successful that we are Around half of BP’s upstream portfolio is assessments of many of our upstream now looking to share our experiences with currently natural gas. operations to fine tune our estimates. As this our upstream sites around the world. work progresses, we will continue to refine our • We are one of the top 10 natural gas data on methane emissions and intensity. producers in the US, with operations in five states. Fraser Buchan • We have several new big gas projects Reducing emissions Health and safety leader, North Sea operations, BP coming onstream in the next few years We believe methane emissions from gas including Khazzan in Oman, West Nile Delta developments can be economically and and Zohr in Egypt, Juniper in Trinidad, and technically controlled. the Southern Gas Corridor from the Caspian At our Khazzan site in Oman we have built Sea to Europe. a central processing facility that reduces • We acquired interests in gas exploration the need for processing equipment at each blocks in Mauritania and Senegal in 2016. individual well site, which can be additional sources of methane emissions in gas Methane – the issue production. Minimizing methane emissions from gas production is essential to maximize the role Methane emissions across the gas supply chain of gas in a lower carbon world. Methane has a strong warming effect on the Drilling and Production Processing Transportation End use climate – trapping substantially more heat fracturing and distribution than CO2. But it has a relatively short lifetime in the atmosphere because it breaks down more rapidly once it is released. The global warming potential of methane is at least 84 times greater than CO2 over a 20-year period. That potential decreases to around 25 times greater when calculated over a 100-year period – the time frame most governments and companies use to assess its impact. Methane emissions can occur along the gas BP’s level of influence supply chain – that includes flaring and venting, to leaks from equipment in gas production BP Sustainability Report 2016 15 Providing renewable energy BP has the largest operated renewables business among our oil and gas peers. Renewables will play an increasingly important role in a lower carbon future. They are projected to grow seven times faster than all other energy types combined. Today, they account for around 3% of global energy demand, excluding large-scale hydroelectricity. BP has been producing renewable energy for more than a decade. Our strategy is to invest in renewable energy where we can build Caption: Sherbino is one of our four wind farms in Texas, which together can generate 580MW of electricity – enough to power around 157,000 homes. commercially viable businesses at scale. With a focus on biofuels and wind, we have the largest operated renewables business among our oil and gas peers. This means that Compared with other biofuels, biobutanol This is slightly higher than in 2015, due to we are directly managing these businesses – has the potential to be blended with fuels drought early in the season, which led to more from manufacturing biofuels from sugar cane in higher proportions and be easier to irrigation. Sugar cane ethanol water intensity to generating and distributing wind energy. transport, store and manage. still compares favourably to that of many We are also evaluating other areas where agricultural food crops within the region. Sustainable biofuels we can access lower carbon, commercially Our Brazil biofuels business takes attractive opportunities to complement sustainability into consideration across Wind energy our existing businesses. the value chain. We make electricity from In the world today, wind power accounts burning bagasse – the fibre that remains for over half of all renewable power. And, Biofuels after sugar cane stalks are crushed. This low we expect that – with decreasing production Biofuels can help reduce emissions from carbon power supplies energy for our mills costs – onshore wind will become even transportation, the fourth-largest source of and the local electricity grid. Our electricity more widespread. greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions today. They exports represent around 11% of our mills’ BP is among the top wind energy producers in can be used in existing cars and infrastructure total revenues. the US. The net generating capacity from our without major changes. The sustainability of biofuels can vary portfolio, based on our financial stake, is 1,452 Our biofuels business in Brazil makes ethanol greatly depending on the raw materials megawatts of electricity. That’s enough and sugar from sugar cane. Brazilian sugar used and agricultural conditions. Brazilian electricity to power almost 400,000 homes. cane ethanol has life cycle GHG emissions sugar cane is one of the most land-efficient And, we calculate that our wind activities that are 70% lower than conventional transport feedstocks for producing biofuels and helped avoid around 2.54 million tonnes of fuels. And, when used in hybrid vehicles, it other products. CO2 in 2016. can deliver similar GHG life cycle emissions Less than 2% of the land used for crops and reductions to electric vehicles. pasture in Brazil goes towards sugar cane Since we acquired majority ownership of cultivation for ethanol. Even at this scale, The US wind industry continues to the Tropical mill in 2011, we have more than enough ethanol is produced to fuel around experience steady growth, particularly doubled our production of ethanol equivalent. half of the cars in Brazil. with continued improvements in efficiency and costs, which have fallen by more than In 2016, our three sites produced 733 million Our largest biofuels mill is certified to half since 2009. litres of ethanol equivalent. We estimate that Bonsucro, an independent standard for our ethanol production avoided around sustainable sugar cane production. 515,000 tonnes of CO2, equal to 241,000 Water Laura Folse fewer European cars on the road for a year. Sugar cane cultivation has the potential to CEO, BP wind energy We are investing in the development increase pressure on water resources. The and commercialization of biobutanol, in water intensity of our sugar cane cultivation in conjunction with our partner, DuPont. Brazil averages around 14 kilograms of water per kilogram of sugar and ethanol. 16 BP Sustainability Report 2016 Overview Taking action on Focusing on safe Maximizing value Respecting Managing local Foundations for climate change operations to society human rights environmental impacts operating responsibly Investing in start-ups and 16-year partnership innovation Technological innovation underpins our efforts to make our operations and products more efficient change and become clearer over time. For example, the CMI’s work has shown that the and sustainable. Collaborating on carbon earth’s natural carbon sinks could begin to reduce over time as emissions stabilize and New technologies will help pave the way to reduce. Improving our understanding of a lower carbon future. We monitor selected For the past 16 years, we have been working these sinks has important implications for technologies – particularly those aligned with closely with Princeton University in the US on how we manage carbon from fossil fuels in BP’s expertise. a research programme that aims to identify the future. the most credible methods of capturing and storing a significant proportion of the world’s We also play our part by contributing to the Venturing carbon emissions from fossil fuels. work of the CMI research teams. We bring Over the past decade, we have invested experience from our pioneering onshore CO2 in start-up companies to help accelerate The Carbon Mitigation Initiative (CMI) brings together fundamental science, technological capture and storage project in Algeria and development and commercial viability of we provide data from oil and gas wells in certain technologies. To date, we have development, policy frameworks and business principles to accelerate the pace of North America that are no longer in use. invested around $300 million in over 40 This has made an important contribution to venture start-ups and funds, which has discovery and the application of solutions at scale. Projects include exploring the potential modelling by the CMI that indicates that less enabled a further $2 billion in external equity than 0.1% of CO2 injected into a suitable investments and grants from other sources. for increasing the volumes of the world’s carbon outputs currently stored in existing geological formation is likely to leak over In 2016, we deployed seven technologies a 50-year period. within our own assets. natural sinks, such as land and forests, and identifying the means to capture and store Academic collaboration, like that with CMI Around half of our venturing investments focus carbon at scale in new sinks in underground and others, brings insight and critical on low carbon solutions. For instance, Tricoya geological formations. Research findings are challenge to our business strategy. Technologies uses a process that alters the published at cmi.princeton.edu. chemical structure of wood chips. This creates Other academic institutions we work with a more durable building material with increased The Princeton initiative allows us to better on the climate challenge include: thermal insulation and the ability to repel water. assess the future resilience of our business • Energy Technologies Institute. It also avoids carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions and investments, not just in terms of understanding climate change but also the • Harvard University. when used as a substitute for non-wood based building products. potential physical impacts our sites may face • Imperial College London. from factors such as changing weather and • Tsinghua-BP Clean Energy Center. Meanwhile, Solidia’s technology has the rising sea levels. potential to reduce the carbon footprint of • Tufts University. concrete production between 30-70%. And, The long-term nature of this collaboration • University of California. Lightning Hybrids has developed a hydraulic means we are better informed about the scientific uncertainties associated with • University of Cambridge. hybrid system for delivery trucks that, combined with Castrol hydraulic fluids, is designed to carbon mitigation and fossil fuels as they save fuel and reduce nitrogen oxide emissions. Carbon capture, use and storage BP has already built capability in CCUS Implementation of carbon capture, use and technology through demonstration projects storage (CCUS) technology could enable such as the In Salah CO2 joint venture continued large-scale use of fossil fuels in project in Algeria. And through research a tightly carbon-limited world. For CCUS to and investment by the CO2 Capture Project, become a reality there needs to be a stable which is piloting technology and Testing out new energy frontiers policy framework and a commercially viable demonstrating secure geological containment. BP is partnering with others to understand business model. and develop solutions for the future. See co2captureproject.org We are working with the Oil and Gas Climate • Sustainable mobility. Initiative to help speed up wide-scale use • Carbon management. of CCUS. This is one of the focus areas for • Power and storage. the initiative’s $1 billion investment vehicle • Bio-products. dedicated to the development of low • Digital energy. emissions technology. BP Sustainability Report 2016 17 Pursuing the US achieved the greatest reduction in We saw a 2% increase in flaring in our upstream energy intensity and we are sharing lessons operations in 2016, primarily due to operational learned with our other refineries. and export limitations in Angola and increased efficient We focus on ways to reduce energy intensity that deliver long-term benefits. For example, at drilling activity in Oman. These were largely offset by the increased availability of operations compressors in the North Sea and the drilling our Whiting refinery in the US, we are using of a dedicated reinjection well in Angola. the steam generated by operations to help power the refinery. This has led to a reduction In Indonesia we have been working on a in Whiting’s indirect GHG emissions, with long-term flare reduction programme. Since We work to manage more electricity generated on-site. 2012 our Tangguh operations have reduced our GHG emissions At our petrochemicals plant in Geel, Belgium, flaring by 67% by recycling gas for use as a fuel. by improving energy we have made technology improvements that achieve greater energy efficiency in producing BP is a founding member of the World Bank’s efficiency, as well as purified terephthalic acid, used to make Global Gas Flaring Reduction partnership, clothes, plastic bottles and other items. These which brings together governments, by reducing flaring upgrades allow us to use 30% less power, companies and international institutions to help and methane. resulting in an overall GHG reduction of 14%. use gas that would otherwise be vented or flared. We have worked with the state oil Shipping company of Azerbaijan, SOCAR, to increase Around 5% of all manmade greenhouse gas We are introducing six liquefied natural gas gas recovery from offshore operations in the (GHG) emissions come from global oil and gas carriers with energy efficiency enhancements Caspian Sea – an effort commended by the industry operations. That includes everything to our shipping fleet. They are designed to use World Bank. from finding, extracting and processing of 25% less fuel and emit less nitrogen oxides hydrocarbon resources, to transforming and than our older ships. We are also a member of the World Bank Zero delivering these resources to customers. Routine Flaring by 2030 initiative, which aims Reducing flaring to eliminate routine flaring from oil assets by During these processes, the most significant 2030. Routine flaring constitutes less than 5% Flaring is the controlled burning of gas during GHG emissions, including carbon dioxide of total flaring in our upstream operations. Our oil and gas production, refining and and methane, come from the combustion major new projects are designed to eliminate manufacturing operations. This can happen in of fossil fuels for energy and the flaring routine flaring. the initial commissioning of a well, during the and venting of gas. start-up of operations, as a safety release or We continue to evaluate our existing during maintenance. That means that the operations to identify viable opportunities to Improving energy efficiency amount of gas we have to flare fluctuates reduce all forms of flaring. The International Energy Agency estimates depending on the types of activity during See page 15 for how we are taking action that energy efficiency will contribute around the year. to reduce methane emissions. half of the emission reductions required by 2030 to stay below a 2°C threshold. Upstream Our sites look for opportunities to increase energy efficiency. For instance, we lowered Caption: An operator at our Shah Deniz project in Azerbaijan, which is one of the largest gas developments in the world. the furnace temperatures by 5°C at the Sangachal terminal in Azerbaijan, and replaced some gas turbines with electrical compressors at our Prudhoe Bay facility in Alaska. Efforts like these reduce both fuel consumption and GHG emissions, and we are actively sharing these practices across our operations. To track the energy performance of our upstream operations, we calculate the energy used by, or lost from, our operations as a percentage of the energy produced by our operations. The increase in 2016 is primarily due to the divestments of some of our North Sea assets. Downstream We measure the energy performance of our refineries using the Solomon Energy Intensity Index® (EII®), an industry measure that benchmarks energy efficiencies. Each of BP’s refineries sets and tracks progress against a target. In 2016 our overall refining EII® improved by 0.7%, which is ahead of the industry standard. Our Toledo refinery in 18 BP Sustainability Report 2016 Overview Taking action on Focusing on safe Maximizing value Respecting Managing local Foundations for climate change operations to society human rights environmental impacts operating responsibly Our performanceab GHG emissions Our direct GHG emissions are impacted GHG intensity year-on-year by changes in our portfolio and Greenhouse gas emissions (TeCO2 equivalent/unit) operations. For example, emissions can (MteCO2 equivalent) increase when we start up new projects or 55 2014 2015 2016 when we bring operations back online after 49.0 0.3 1.5 50.1 Upstream 32.0 32.7 34.7 planned maintenance. Both of these activities -0.3 (per thousand barrels 50 -0.4 of oil equivalent) are essential for the safe performance and growth of BP’s portfolio. 45 Refining 978 944 951 (per utilized equivalent In 2016 the increase in our direct GHG distillation capacity) emissions was primarily due to operational Acquisitions 2015 direct GHG 2016 direct GHG Divestments Operational Real sustainable Petrochemicals 291 290 287 changes that include the start-up activities of (per thousand tonnes) the Sunrise oil sands project in Canada and the changes reductions LNG plant in Angola. And one of our US refineries restarted operations following a planned shutdown for maintenance. Around a quarter of the increase is due to changes GHG emissions by source GHG emissions by activity in how we calculate emissions. (MteCO2 equivalent) (MteCO2 equivalent) This increase has been partially offset by our 2016 2016 ‘real sustainable reductions’ – these are actions 2015 2015 taken by our businesses to permanently 2014 2014 reduce their GHG emissions in areas such as 2013 2013 flaring, methane and energy efficiency. We 2012 2012 20 40 60 80 20 40 60 80 began tracking this in 2002, and the running total by the end of 2016 exceeded 9.1Mte. Carbon dioxide (CO2) Methane Upstream Downstream Shipping, renewables and other businesses Intensity We track GHG intensity, which is the quantity of GHG emitted in tonnes per a defined unit Energy efficiency Flaring in our upstream operations (thousand tonnes (kte) of hydrocarbons) of measurement. The GHG intensity of our (indexed to 2010) upstream portfolio has risen in 2016 primarily 2014 2015 2016 2016 1,896 because of an increased contribution from Upstream 112.7 98.3 102.4 2015 1,863 more GHG-intensive operations, such as our (production/ 2014 2,188 consumption loss) unconventional gas operations in the US. 2013 2,028 Refining 104.9 103.8 103.1 2012 1,548 We expect the GHG intensity of our refining (energy intensity index 500 1,000 1,500 2,000 2,500 portfolio to remain relatively stable or to performance) decrease at certain refineries due to efficiency Petrochemicals 102.9 94.5 82.3 projects in progress and improved refinery (energy intensity) utilization. a We report GHG emissions from all BP’s consolidated entities as well as our share of equity-accounted entities other than BP’s The decrease in GHG intensity of our share of Rosneft. b See page 8 for minor adjustments made to previously reported data for direct GHG emissions, upstream GHG intensity and petrochemicals portfolio reflects ongoing refining energy intensity index performance. efficiency gains in our aromatics and acetyls businesses. Climate change We have guidance to help our existing operations and projects identify potential adaptation impacts and adapt to a changing climate. In Iraq, to redevelop an existing oilfield, we We seek to address the potential impacts are selecting new equipment to better of a changing and unpredictable climate – withstand extended periods of high such as sea-level rise, higher temperatures, temperatures. And, at our South Caucasus extreme weather events and greater or less pipeline, we decided to place some of the precipitation – on our new projects from the pipeline deeper underground to avoid design phase. potential washouts due to flooding. We consider these risks for new projects We have used global climate models, with an operational life greater than 10 years. supported by scientists from Princeton For example, we expect our Clair Ridge University and Imperial College London, to project in the North Sea to be in use for help us assess possible climate impacts around four decades – so we have designed relevant to selected operations. the platforms to withstand possible sea level rise, among other factors. BP Sustainability Report 2016 19 Helping our The airline industry has set itself rigorous targets to reduce emissions over the next customers 30 years. The growth in our biojet business is part of our commitment to helping our reduce customers meet those goals. emissions Tufan Erginbilic Chief executive, Downstream, BP In addition, BP is partnering with Fulcrum We are working to reduce BioEnergy – a company that produces sustainable jet fuel from household waste. the carbon footprint of We are investing $30 million in Fulcrum and many of our fuels, are planning to supply the fuel to some of our aviation customers in North America. lubricants and petrochemicals products. Plastics for everyday items BP is one of the world’s largest producers of Around 80-90% of carbon dioxide (CO2) Air transport purified terephthalic acid (PTA) and its emissions from oil and gas products are from feedstock paraxylene. These are used to make BP supplies fuel for more than 6,000 flights a everyday items, such as clothes, soft drinks their use by consumers in transportation, day. We are helping our aviation customers to power plants, industries and buildings. BP bottles and other packaging. reduce their emissions in a number of ways. provides an increasing number of lower carbon, Using proprietary technology retrofitted at our energy efficient and high-performance At Norway’s Oslo airport we helped to make site in Belgium, BP has developed PTAir: PTA products to help our customers reduce jet biofuel available using existing fuelling with around a 30% lower carbon footprint than their carbon footprint. infrastructure. And in 2016, we achieved average European PTA production. Customers carbon neutrality for our into-plane fuelling also have the option to upgrade to carbon Road transport services across a network of more than neutral PTA and offset their product’s entire 200 Air BP-operated facilities. carbon footprint, using BP Target Neutral. BP develops Castrol lubricants with lower viscosity, which helps manufacturers improve the efficiency of their vehicles. We estimate that – when compared with our 2004 Castrol formulation – our more recent lubricants have helped avoid more than five million tonnes of CO2 over the past 10 years. That’s the CO2 equivalent of removing almost a quarter of a million European cars from the road each year. In India, we provide customers with a diesel lubricant that uses re-refined engine oil as its base, thus reducing CO2 emissions in the production and use of the lubricant. We have also developed lubricants formulated with 25% renewable plant-based oil. We work in partnership with vehicle and equipment manufacturers to achieve more efficient use of our fuels and engine oils. In Development Goals (see page 47). We Europe, for example, Ford’s EcoBoost engines support efforts as diverse as forest – used in the Fiesta, Focus, Mondeo and other conservation in Zambia, wind farm models – are engineered with specially Target Neutral construction in Turkey and a biomass power formulated advanced Castrol oils, which help to generation project in China. All projects meet improve fuel efficiency and reduce emissions. industry standards approved under the Over the past 10 years, our not-for-profit International Carbon Reduction and Offset BP’s new range of fuels with ACTIVE carbon offsetting programme, BP Target Alliance code of best practice. technology use an innovative formula designed to help keep engines running smoothly and Neutral, has helped our customers offset BP uses the carbon credits created by efficiently by fighting dirt in the car’s engine 2.5 million tonnes of carbon dioxide the projects to provide carbon neutral and protecting against its build up. equivalent – half of which was achieved opportunities for our customers. For instance, in the past three years. our range of Castrol Professional lubricants The programme invests in emissions – supplied to vehicle manufacturers for use reductions projects around the world. The when servicing cars in dealerships – are independent selection panel considers certified as CO2 neutral via the programme. the project’s carbon abatement attributes, as well as its contribution to the UN Sustainable See bp.com/targetneutral 20 BP Sustainability Report 2016 Focusing on safe operations Safety is one of our values and our number one priority. Our stated aim is to have no accidents, no harm to people and no damage to the environment. What we are doing Managing safety Process safety 22 Contractor safety 23 Personal health and safety 24 Transportation safety 25 Security and crisis management Cyber threats 26 Oil spills 26 Foundations for operating responsibly Governance of sustainability issues 41 Our operating management system 44 The three lines of defence 44 BP Sustainability Report 2016 21 Process safety Major accidents can result in serious harm – which is why process safety is so important. The fundamentals of how we deliver safe and reliable operations remain unchanged in a lower oil price environment. Our operating management system is good for all seasons, whether the market is weak or strong. Our safety data indicates that our hard work is having an impact. And I see this for myself too through site visits and in my discussions with our leaders – we must keep safety front and centre of everything we do. Bob Fryar Executive vice president, safety and operational risk, BP Caption: Using technology to monitor conditions on board our Thunder Horse platform in the Gulf of Mexico. Process safety means designing our facilities data, analysing it and bringing it all to a single Process safety events to appropriate standards and using robust screen so engineers can more quickly (number of incidents) engineering principles. It also underlines the troubleshoot and resolve potential issues. 400 importance of having capable people and We are testing magnetic crawler robots 300 rigorous operating and maintenance practices. to inspect the pipelines that connect our It starts with taking a systematic approach deepwater wells with our platforms. The 200 to identifying and managing the hazards robots use lasers to identify corrosion or 100 involved throughout our operations’ life cycle damage. This can provide us with earlier – from initial project planning through to warnings of potential safety issues. 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 closure. If we can’t eliminate a risk, we put Tier 1 43 20 28 20 16 We also use technology that gives us extra Tier 2 154 110 95 83 84 measures, or ‘barriers’, in place to reduce eyes on our offshore wells to help inform LOPC 292 261 286 235 275 or manage it, and ultimately mitigate the decision-making. We have a monitoring Tier 1 Tier 2 Loss of primary containment (LOPC) consequences should these fail. centre in Houston in the US where our teams For example, pipeline corrosion, operating can monitor data in real-time from our mistakes and equipment malfunctions are operated rigs in the Gulf of Mexico, as well just a few of the possible causes for a spill or as offshore exploration and high-impact wells pipes, containers or vehicles is loss of primary loss of primary containment. We take time to around the world. containment (LOPC). This is a BP metric that understand how people, plant or processes includes events within our operational Our performance could cause such an event – so that we can boundary, excluding releases of non-hazardous To track our safety performance, we use apply appropriate management and substances such as water. We saw an increase industry metrics, such as the American mitigation measures. of LOPCs in 2016, partly due to harsher winter Petroleum Institute recommended practice Then we carry out checks to make sure these 754 and the International Association of Oil and operating conditions in our unconventional gas measures are working properly. This helps us Gas Producers recommended practice 456. operations in the US. detect and fix problems before an incident These include tier 1 process safety events, We have seen improvements in our process occurs. We also conduct checks of selected which are losses of primary containment of safety performance over the past five years. contractors’ safety management systems. greater consequence – such as causing harm For example, at our Rotterdam refinery, the to a member of the workforce, costly damage number of tier 2 events has reduced from 12 in Using advanced technology to equipment or exceeding defined quantities. 2012 to just one in 2016. Alongside this, the New technologies are helping us to increase Tier 2 events are those of lesser consequence. refinery’s availability has increased, with 2016 the amount and quality of data that we gather The overall number of process safety events its best year in over a decade. from our operations and speed up our analysis, decreased in 2016, continuing the downward allowing us to act more quickly. For example, We see examples of this right across our trend of the past five years. we are piloting software that identifies early operations – we believe this shows that the warning signs of potential performance Another metric that tracks unplanned or rigour needed to produce safe operations problems by gathering machinery and plant uncontrolled releases of our products from tends also to produce reliable operations. 22 BP Sustainability Report 2016 Overview Taking action on Focusing on safe Maximizing value Respecting Managing local Foundations for climate change operations to society human rights environmental impacts operating responsibly Human performance in safety How our people interact with equipment, processes and each other is fundamental to operating safely. We are working to identify Toledo and adopt good practices for managing human performance drawn from inside and outside the industry. Through this, we aim to improve our equipment and processes so we can better support our people and reduce the likelihood of mistakes occurring in safety critical tasks. A learning organization We remain focused on improving safety across BP. Our operating management system, which covers requirements on can contribute to LOPCs, such as how safety, security, contractual relationships and checks are conducted, and the quality of organizational learning, is designed to help Walking the line to handovers between teams. It also provides us manage risks and drive improvements. We analyse our performance and apply zero in Toledo tools to reinforce a more systematic approach to pre-start-up procedures. lessons learned from incidents, near misses, self-verification, assurance and audit findings. In readiness for the start-up, our maintenance During 2016 we completed a major This helps us build a picture of our risks, teams checked hundreds of valves maintenance and upgrade exercise at our focus our analysis and inform where to positioned along pipes to identify and fix Toledo refinery in the US. This involved a full concentrate our safety efforts. potential integrity problems. Site managers shutdown of the plant to carry out the work. used checklists and detailed drawings of the Bringing a refinery back online is a complex process units to sign-off each completed process. During previous start-ups, we had inspection. Importantly, managers set clear experienced leaks or losses of primary expectations with their teams for the start-up, containment (LOPCs). Although relatively including the ultimate goal of zero LOPCs. small, they needed urgent resolution. We saw the benefits of walking the line in In preparation for the maintenance work Toledo – the refinery restarted without a in 2016, our refinery team revisited an single LOPC. We are sharing the lessons industry methodology known as ‘walk the we learned from this experience with our line’. This focuses on the human factors that other refineries. Contractor In 2016 we brought together suppliers of preventer defects and failures. This has led to goods and services to our upstream operations broader industry collaboration on enhancing to discuss how the industry can collaborate the performance of the equipment. safety on safety. A focus of the event was the importance of reinforcing a speak-up culture. When people feel comfortable reporting Training together We work with Maersk Training to provide our drilling teams with state-of-the-art simulation safety concerns, leaders have an opportunity More than half the hours to address issues, and this can in turn help facilities in the US and Denmark. BP staff and contractors practice working together under worked by BP are carried prevent incidents. the specific conditions found in their drilling out by contractors. Shared problem solving We have been working with drilling contractors operation. This provides valuable, hands-on training to and equipment manufacturers to analyse Our ability to be a safe operator depends in prepare our teams to tackle critical jobs on the causes of failure in blowout preventers – the part on the capability and performance of rig. In addition to technical skills development, mechanical devices used to seal and control those who help us carry out our work. Our the training enhances how participants work hydrocarbons during drilling operations. standard model contracts include health, with each other, lead, make decisions and safety and security requirements. Bridging This work has led to greater reliability, with a manage various challenges. documents are necessary in some cases to significant reduction since 2012 in the number Watch the video to see how this works in define how our safety management system of times that we need to bring this subsea practice at bp.com/maersktraining and those of our contractors co-exist to equipment up to the surface for unplanned manage risk on a site. testing and maintenance. It has also led to equipment manufacturers redesigning valve Contracts involving work that could result in and seal components in the blowout the most serious safety risks demand our preventers. highest scrutiny. We conduct pre-contract quality, technical, health, safety, security and Building on this, we have been working with environmental audits for these contractors on other operators, rig contractors and equipment a risk-prioritized basis, and provide structured manufacturers to develop an industry-wide oversight while the work is carried out. database to share information on blowout BP Sustainability Report 2016 23 Personal health There’s always an opportunity to learn from Our performance We monitor and report on key workforce and safety each other – especially in terms of safety. personal safety metrics and include both It pushes us to consistently challenge employees and contractors in our data. ourselves to be better. Our recordable injury frequency and our day away from work rates have reduced We are committed to across BP in 2016. This continues a pattern Jason James keeping people safe, Blender process superintendent, Cherry Point refinery of improvement in personal safety over a number of years, which is encouraging. whether they work However, we know we must maintain on our sites or live in Health and wellbeing our efforts to continue improving safety in our operations. We aim to manage health hazards that could communities near cause harm to our workforce or nearby our operations. communities. For some of our more Recordable injury frequency – workforce (per 200,000 hours worked) significant hazards – such as exposure to Despite our efforts, we experienced three benzene or noise – we monitor exposure 0.80 workforce fatalities in 2016. One contractor levels and use that information to put appropriate measures in place. For example, 0.60 died following a leg injury sustained at our biofuels business in Brazil and two at our Kwinana refinery in Australia, we 0.40 contractors died in a pipeline construction reduce noise exposure by using quieter incident in Oman. We deeply regret the loss of equipment and sound barriers. 0.20 these lives and continue to focus our efforts on Our health programmes consider global 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 eliminating the risk of injuries and fatalities in concerns, such as the possibility of an Workforce 0.35 0.31 0.31 0.24 0.21 our work. Following the Oman incident, we influenza pandemic. The zika virus emerged Employees 0.26 0.25 0.27 0.20 0.19 have shared lessons learned across BP as well as a new threat in 2016 and we provided Contractors 0.43 0.36 0.34 0.28 0.22 as with our industry peers. guidance to our employees on how to avoid American Petroleum Institute US benchmarka the mosquito-spread disease. International Association of Oil & Gas Producers benchmarka Golden rules We also encourage our employees to assess a API and OGP 2016 data reports are not available Our golden rules of safety guide our workers until May 2017. their lifestyles and provide online training on staying safe while performing tasks with modules in the areas where we see the the potential to cause the most harm. The rules most need, such as fatigue, stress, office We measure our workforce recordable injury are aligned with our operating management ergonomics and travel health. frequency, which is the number of reported system and focus on areas such as working at work-related incidents that result in a fatality heights, lifting operations and driving safety. Product safety or injury per 200,000 hours worked. We assess our products to identify any Leadership and capability potential health, safety or environmental Day away from work case Creating and maintaining the right safety culture aspects and to verify compliance with frequency – workforce is an essential part of operating safely. It takes chemical control, product safety and hazard (per 200,000 hours worked) strong leadership and personal responsibility communication regulations, monitoring 0.200 from all members of our workforce, who each developments in regulation globally. have a responsibility and the authority to stop 0.150 unsafe work. 0.100 0.050 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Workforce 0.076 0.070 0.081 0.061 0.051 Employees 0.078 0.074 0.091 0.063 0.050 Contractors 0.074 0.066 0.072 0.059 0.052 American Petroleum Institute US benchmarka International Association of Oil & Gas Producers benchmarka a API and OGP 2016 data reports are not available until May 2017. We also measure our day away from work case frequency, which is the number of incidents per 200,000 hours worked that resulted in an injury where a person is unable to work for a day (or shift) or more. Caption: Two of our wind farms achieved seven years without a recordable injury in 2016. 24 BP Sustainability Report 2016 Overview Taking action on Focusing on safe Maximizing value Respecting Managing local Foundations for climate change operations to society human rights environmental impacts operating responsibly Transportation Rail safety regulators and oil and gas companies have collectively analysed these events. As a result, Our sites receive and distribute oil and gas our industry is using enhanced emergency safety products by rail using BP-owned or leased, breathing systems for offshore helicopter as well as third-party, railcars. Much of this passengers in the UK and is evaluating plans is in the US. For example, at our Cherry Point for a wider roll-out. refinery, we receive on average 55,000 barrels We work to safely of crude oil by rail per day. There was a serious incident involving a helicopter in the North Sea in April 2016. transport our people and Our railcars have insulation to protect cargo in the event of a fire and a protective shell to Although the incident did not involve BP, equipment to our sites, defend against puncturing and resulting spills the helicopter operators who provide services to us no longer use these aircraft and our fuel to customers. or releases. for transporting BP workers. Aviation safety Shipping safety Driving safety We use a variety of aircraft in our operations, We move significant volumes of oil, gas, Vehicle accidents remain one of our industry’s sometimes in challenging conditions, such lubricants and chemicals around the world key risks. In 2016, BP employees and as offshore or in remote areas. Our safety by sea and through local waterways. We use contractors drove over 500 million kilometres, requirements cover the approval of aviation both BP-operated and chartered vessels. the equivalent of about 13,300 journeys around operators, contracting for aviation services, and the world. Transporting fuel from refineries to the safe management of any aircraft operated All are subject to our health, safety, security service stations, along with other downstream on behalf of BP. and environmental requirements. To help activities, account for most of these kilometres. avoid major spills, all ships in our managed There have been a number of incidents in the international fleet are double-hulled. There were 554 reported vehicle accidents in industry involving helicopters in the North Sea 2016. This was the second consecutive year over the past few years. Helicopter suppliers, in which we have recorded no driving-related workforce fatalities. We believe this reflects the positive impacts of a sustained effort to improve driving safety, working with employees, contractors and communities. We provide drivers with guidance on road 6,000 -strong safety, including advice on what constitutes workforce a fit-for-purpose vehicle. We tailor our driving safety programmes to take account of local risks and conditions, such as driving culture, road quality or extreme weather. For example, in certain locations where we consider driving safety to be a greater risk, we use in-vehicle monitoring systems such as GPS tracking and cameras. Severe vehicle accident rate (per million kilometres driven) 2016 0.05 a 0.09 2015 0.11 2014 0.13 2013 0.12 Sadly, there have been several vehicle-related 2012 0.13 fatalities among our Brazilian workforce 0.1 0.2 and third parties over the years. Off-road a This figure is based on our new definition which aligns with industry practice. We have included an estimate of the rate driving, unpaved roads, dust in dry conditions, stopping distances in wet based on our previous definition for comparative purposes. Driving change in Brazil conditions and local driving behaviours Total vehicle accident rate were some of the contributing issues. (per million kilometres driven) The World Health Organization estimates To improve safety we have replaced the fleet 2016 1.04 that fatalities from road traffic accidents in with new buses, enhanced driver training 2015 1.08 Brazil are double the rate experienced in the US. and provided seat belts. Through in-vehicle 2014 1.18 cameras, we can also record driving In 2011 BP began its Brazil biofuels 2013 1.20 behaviour and use this as a coaching aid 2012 1.31 operations, producing ethanol and sugar from to improve driving skills. 0.3 0.6 0.9 1.2 1.5 locally grown sugar cane. Heavy vehicles transport the cane from the farms to the mills We experienced no fatalities in our transport and deliver the products to markets across activities in 2016 and have seen Brazil. In addition, we contract buses to bring improvements in driving safety – but we the majority of our 6,000-strong workforce to continue to be vigilant in what remains a and from work from neighbouring cities. challenging operating environment. BP Sustainability Report 2016 25 Security and crisis management The scale and spread of our operations means that we must be prepared to respond to a range of possible disruptions. We monitored the progress of the oil closely Potential threats to our business are not to check whether these other response always predictable and come in many forms, strategies would be needed. Aerial such as major accidents, political instability, surveillance and satellite imagery showed health alerts or extreme weather. We have Oil spill response – that, within five days, there was no visible measures in place to try to anticipate them a North Sea case study evidence of oil in the sea. This indicated a and be ready if an incident or crisis occurs. rapid evaporation and natural dispersal, which We work with government and other was confirmed by continued monitoring Although our priority is to prevent oil spills over subsequent days. response agencies in crisis and continuity and other releases, they can still happen. In management planning as part of our work Throughout our response we kept in contact October 2016, approximately 95 tonnes of oil to keep our people and the public safe and with a variety of external interest groups such and a quantity of water leaked from the Clair to mitigate impacts to the environment. as the Shetland Islands Council, the Scottish platform into the sea due to a technical issue Our businesses carry out crisis response Fishermen’s Federation and the Shetland with the system that separates the mixed exercises at both a local and regional level Fishermen’s Association. production fluids of water, oil and gas. to test their readiness. With this incident, as with any other, we We triggered our oil spill contingency plan will examine the outcomes of the incident and emergency response procedures, and Cyber threats stopped the oil reaching the sea within an investigation and apply any lessons learned. Cybersecurity is one of BP’s highest priority hour of it being discovered. risks, with breaches presenting a risk to the We worked with relevant UK government We conduct emergency response exercises security of our information, IT systems and agencies and the oil spill response regularly and this really helped when it came operations. co-operative, Oil Spill Response Limited, to a real event in 2016. For example, we We work closely with governments, law to assess the potential impact on the had done a lot of preparatory work on enforcement agencies and industry peers environment and to agree the best way to the importance of adapting our incident to understand and respond to new and respond. In this case, it was by allowing the management team in a controlled way in emerging cyber threats. oil to disperse naturally at sea. Our computer an emergency. We put this into practice We also monitor our IT systems for suspicious modelling predicted that the prevailing in our response in 2016. Having established activity and work with our employees to currents and weather conditions would carry relationships with external organizations promote responsible online behaviours. any oil away from land and that it would break helped too – it made communication up and disperse naturally in a few days. considerably easier during the incident. See page 44 for how we are encouraging our employees to ‘think before they click’. As a precaution, we kept other response options open, such as the use of dispersants and skimming equipment. Security Tommy Clark Crisis continuity management and emergency BP monitors for hostile actions that could Although the likelihood of oil coming ashore response manager, BP North Sea cause harm to our people or disrupt our was assessed to be very low, we also operations. We assess risk on an ongoing worked with the local authorities to carry out basis in those operating areas that are surveys on Shetland’s beaches to confirm affected by political and social unrest, baseline conditions and prepare for the terrorism, armed conflict or criminal activity. extremely unlikely event that any shoreline clean-up might be needed. Our central security team provides guidance and support to our businesses through a network of regional security advisers. We help our people to stay safe when In March 2016, for example, we quickly they are travelling on business. We have identified, alerted and safely accounted for a 24-hour response information centre every member of the workforce who was that keeps watch over global events and travelling through Brussels during the tragic related developments. terrorist attacks. 26 BP Sustainability Report 2016 Maximizing value to society The energy we produce serves to power economic growth and improve the quality of life for millions of people. We aim to have a positive and enduring impact on the communities in which we operate. The value we deliver to society $187.3bn $9.5bn Economic value Economic value generated by BP Suppliers Employees Capital providers Governments Communities retained by BP We source goods We provide direct We pay finance We contribute to We support and services from employment to costs to our lenders economies around efforts to increase more than 72,000 around 74,500 and aim to achieve the world through local incomes and companies people across long-term growth the taxes that improve standards globally. the world. and value for our we pay. of living. shareholders. $155.5bn $11.2bn $8.8bn $2.2bn $0.1bn BP Sustainability Report 2016 27 Supporting local development We contribute to societies Committed to reaching through our core an 85% Papuan business activities as workforce by 2029 well as through our 85% community investments. Local workforce development We aim to recruit our workforce from the community or country in which we operate. We believe this benefits the local community and BP – and is often part of our agreement with government partners. In Angola, 86% of our workforce is Angolan nationals, with plans to achieve 90% by 2020. One way we are working towards meeting this goal is by helping to develop skills in the In 2016 BP and partners entered a final country. Our offshore technicians programme, investment decision to expand our Tangguh for example, helps nationals looking to develop facility following approval from the a career in the oil and gas industry. Trainees Indonesian government in 2014. As part of learn technical skills in engineering disciplines the development, we have set a target of such as production, electrical, instruments and A decade-long sourcing 38% of our services and project controls. The majority of technicians working materials from local suppliers. commitment to Tangguh on our Greater Plutonio development Additionally, our day-to-day operations provide graduated from this programme. opportunities for sustainable local economic Located in the remote Papua Barat province, development. Tangguh’s need for workplace Tangguh is Indonesia’s second-largest clothing and uniforms, along with the growing When I joined BP’s offshore technicians liquefied natural gas supply facility. availability of electricity supplies, led us to programme as an apprentice in 2003, I didn’t support the foundation of two sustainable local Until 2014 the people of Papua Barat relied think that one day I would become the businesses, one in clothing manufacture and on diesel-fuelled generators for electricity. company’s first Angolan area operations another in air conditioning maintenance. Health clinics and other public services had to manager for Block 18. But the apprenticeship allocate much of their annual budgets to the Meanwhile, the introduction of an early equipped me with the knowledge and skills purchase of diesel. We have reduced the diagnosis and treatment programme for I need to do the job and I’m excited to be part community’s reliance on diesel by using gas malaria has virtually eliminated the disease in of this groundbreaking project. at the plant to generate and supply electricity surrounding villages. Support for the provision to local communities. of teachers, school facilities and infrastructure has improved local literacy rates. Danny Waya More than half of our workforce in Tangguh is Area operations manager, Greater Plutonio, BP Angola Papuan. This is a direct result of internship Our progress on human rights, security, and apprentice programmes that focus on governance and other social issues is training graduates from Papua and Papua monitored by the Tangguh Independent Barat. We are committed to reaching an 85% Advisory Panel, which we established in 2002. Local suppliers Papuan workforce by 2029. We contribute to the growth of local See bp.com/tangguhcommitment businesses in the regions where we operate. In Azerbaijan, for example, we are helping to And in South Africa, we support small Through our supplier development build the skills of local companies so that businesses, with around a third of our programme we have provided business they can improve their competitiveness when spend on suppliers going to enterprises training and mentorship to 14 local suppliers. bidding for work with international firms, with an annual turnover of less than $4 million. which supports the local economy. Our In Australia, we have a targeted procurement In addition, around 2% of our profit after enterprise and development programme has strategy to support indigenous businesses. tax in South Africa is spent with small helped local companies secure international In 2016 we spent more than $400,000 on companies with a majority black or black contracts with BP in Azerbaijan in excess of indigenous suppliers and aim to increase this women ownership. $61.5 million in 2016. to around $800,000 in 2017. 28 BP Sustainability Report 2016 Overview Taking action on Focusing on safe Maximizing value Respecting Managing local Foundations for climate change operations to society human rights environmental impacts operating responsibly Contribution to communities around 40% of its total domestic gas supply. Direct spending on community by region ($ million) We aim to deliver sustainable socioprogrammes economic development in the country, Our direct spending on community including in the areas near to BP’s projects programmes in 2016, including disaster 1 and operations. The focus of our social relief, was $61.1 million (2015 $67.2 million, 2 investment programme includes building 2014 $85.0 million). local capability in education, enterprise The BP Foundation development and energy sustainability. Since The BP Foundation is a charitable 4 we launched the programme three years ago, organization that works to benefit we have worked with community partners to 3 communities around the world, prioritizing reach more than 30,000 people. donations to charities that support STEM In the UK, our five-year Enterprising Science education and humanitarian relief. programme focuses on addressing the The foundation also matches personal 1. UK 7.9 shortfall of graduates in science, technology, contributions from BP employees that are 2. Rest of Europe 1.6 engineering and maths, collectively referred 3. US 21.4 made to eligible charities of their choice. In to as STEM. We partner with King’s College 2016 employees gave around $6.5 million, 4. Rest of world 30.2 London and the Science Museum to provide which was matched with grants of teachers with tools and techniques aimed approximately $6.9 million. at getting more young people interested in Community investment careers as scientists and engineers. The aim It also contributed $260,000 to local relief We seek to make meaningful community is to reach more than 400,000 students organizations in areas affected by natural investments that meet local needs and align across the UK by the end of 2017. disasters. with our business activities. As an example, our Khazzan project will provide a major new source of gas for Oman, with production expected to represent For example, we support healthcare in the workshops and weaving businesses. One communities that are closest to the project’s third of these initial loans went to women onshore gas processing facilities. The two setting up their own businesses. Creating value in the public local hospitals – in Idku and nearby West Nile Delta, Egypt Rashid – received approximately $1 million for emergency response equipment in 2016. Our plan is to deliver a tailored programme Idku hospital serves a population of around that truly reflects our values, showing respect Our West Nile Delta project is expected to 150,000, and the donation has helped fund for local needs and local culture. The real increase Egypt’s current gas production by ventilators, defibrillators, cardiac monitors and measure of success of our social investment 30% when it comes onstream in 2017. To medication pumps. programme will be when the community bring lasting benefits to the communities takes pride in the presence of our West Nile where the gas will come ashore, our social We have also set up a micro-finance Delta project. investment programme contains a initiative, administered by non-governmental commitment to employ people from the organizations, that provides small interest-free surrounding communities and use local loans to help establish new local businesses. Moataz Atef suppliers where appropriate. We also invest in The initiative approved more than 900 loans, of In-country project general manager, programmes aimed at improving local economic up to $1,100 each, in its first seven months of West Nile Delta, BP Egypt development and important community operation. This money helped a range of small services, such as health and education. enterprises, such as taxi services, mechanical BP Sustainability Report 2016 29 Engaging with communities We work with local communities in an open and constructive way. Our activities sometimes have impacts on the people who live close to our facilities. For this reason, when we plan new projects we assess potential impacts on communities, including on indigenous peoples, such as health and safety, security, water use, air quality, resettlement, cultural heritage, labour rights and local livelihoods. This helps us to identify early on whether any activities could affect the rights of people living in nearby communities – and to find ways to prevent or mitigate those impacts before any work begins. Community consultation We consult with communities about potential impacts from our operations so that we can address any concerns or requests. We require our businesses to respond to concerns, as Caption: An operator works at the Rumaila oil field in Iraq, which reached production of three billion barrels well as record and act on any commitments. of oil in 2016. In 2016 concerns raised by communities living near our major operations included property damage, security, noise, odour, dust, job opportunities for local residents, community investment programmes and flaring. We believe that listening and responding members and conducted surveys prior to and We provide advice, training and tools to help to concerns raised by communities enables during construction to monitor any change in our sites manage community complaints in all sides to constructively resolve potential the livelihoods of the fishermen. a way that conforms with our human rights disagreements and avoid disruption to our policy and meets our commitment to the As a result of the engagement, fishermen activities. UN Guiding Principles. We also share industry were compensated for temporary loss of guidance from IPIECA on community In Iraq, where we are working in a consortium income and we established a channel for complaints mechanisms with our sites. to develop the Rumaila oil field, residents them to raise concerns. expressed concerns about the planned expansion of a water treatment plant. We Evaluating our community worked with a non-governmental organization complaints mechanisms that brought together local people, We assessed the effectiveness of community government and the consortium to identify complaints mechanisms at 23 of our sites in concerns and implement solutions. For 2016, using criteria from the UN Guiding example, some residents expressed concerns Principles on Business and Human Rights. about the lack of fresh water in the local area, so the consortium constructed a new water We found that although some have strong pumping station, which has helped deliver mechanisms in place, there is still room for More information fresh water to around 1,000 households. improvement. Some sites, such as our Other actions included rebuilding a road to refinery in Germany and petrochemical plant Our approach to human rights in Belgium, already make their mechanisms Page 33 the plant and improving healthcare facilities. easily accessible to community members and Managing our environmental and social impacts In Azerbaijan, the construction of a new Page 45 have well-documented procedures. Other marine pipeline to our Shah Deniz 2 project About our work in Iraq sites, for example our plants in China, plan to had the potential to impact the local fishing See bp.com/collaborationiniraq introduce more systematic mechanisms. industry. We talked to local community 30 BP Sustainability Report 2016 Overview Taking action on Focusing on safe Maximizing value Respecting Managing local Foundations for climate change operations to society human rights environmental impacts operating responsibly Fostering Anti-bribery and corruption We also carry out checks once contracts are in place. For example, for a number of suppliers We operate in some of the world’s highestin higher-risk regions, our upstream business transparency risk countries from an anti-bribery and conducts audits to assess their compliance corruption perspective. with our anti-bribery and corruption and Our code of conduct explicitly prohibits contractual requirements. engaging in bribery and corruption in any form. Potential areas for improvement identified by We have a responsibility to our employees, the audits are shared with the suppliers and anti-corruption our shareholders and to the countries and communities in which we do business to be ethical and lawful in our work. we often work with them to find the best ways to strengthen their procedures. The learnings from these audits help to reduce risk We support transparency Our anti-bribery and corruption policy applies to all BP-operated businesses. It sets out to both BP and our suppliers. We issued a total of 25 audit reports in 2016 (2015 35, 2014 36). in revenue flows from oil appropriate contractual commitments, risk A key consideration for our downstream and assessments and training. We provide training and gas activities to to those employees for whom we believe it is shipping businesses is how best to carry out the safe, efficient and ethical distribution of governments and have a most relevant. This depends on the nature or our products. For example, the movement of location of their role or in response to specific responsibility to our host issues. In 2016 nearly 13,000 employees goods could be exposed to corrupt requests for ‘facilitation payments’ to expedite customs countries to be ethical in completed this training (2015 13,500). clearance or avoid delays to the supply chain. Before working with a supplier, we conduct our dealings. an assessment to determine the degree of In higher-risk regions, we provide training for our shipping crews and distributors to help bribery and corruption risk posed. If needed, them understand and mitigate these risks. We contribute to economies around the we then put in place a risk reduction plan. BP does not tolerate facilitation payments in world through the taxes that we pay. We any form. paid $2.2 billion in income and production We expect our suppliers to comply with laws taxes to governments in 2016 (2015 $3.5bn, and act consistently with our code’s principles. See page 43 for information on our code 2014 $8.0bn). Our contracts with suppliers make these of conduct. expectations clear. We participate in initiatives to simplify and improve tax regimes to encourage investment and economic growth. We also support efforts to increase public trust in tax systems. Revenue transparency The Extractive Industries’ Transparency Initiative (EITI) supports disclosure of payments made to, and received by, Caption: Construction of our Juniper platform in Trinidad & Tobago – which published its fourth EITI report in 2016. government in relation to oil, gas and mining activity. As a member of EITI, BP works with governments, non-governmental organizations and international agencies to improve the transparency of payments to governments. We disclose information on payments to governments for our upstream activities. We report on a country-by-country and project basis as required by UK regulation. These payments could be made in the form of taxes, production entitlements, royalties, bonuses, fees and infrastructure improvements. We also make payments to governments in connection with other parts of our business – such as the transporting, trading, manufacturing and marketing of oil and gas. See bp.com/tax for our approach to tax and our payments to governments report. BP Sustainability Report 2016 31 Respecting human rights We strive to conduct our business in a manner that respects the rights and dignity of all people – this commitment guides how we engage with our workforce, communities, governments and our supply chain. Human rights at BP Labour rights Health and safety 24 Forced labour and human 34-35 trafficking Fair working and living conditions 34-35 Non-discrimination 42 Rights of people in communities Livelihoods and local 28-30 employment Consultation and grievance 33 mechanisms Environmental impacts 36-39 Security and human rights Interaction with public and 35 private security forces 32 BP Sustainability Report 2016 Overview Taking action on Focusing on safe Maximizing value Respecting Managing local Foundations for climate change operations to society human rights environmental impacts operating responsibly Our approach to human rights Respect – one of BP’s values – underpins how we interact with all those affected by our operations. We respect internationally recognized human BP and human rights – our journey rights as set out in the International Bill of BP has a long history of seeking to conduct our business in a manner that respects Human Rights and the International Labour human rights. Here are some of our efforts from 2000 onwards. Organization’s Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work. These include 2000 the rights of our workforce and those living in BP is a founding member of the communities affected by our activities. UN Global Compact and the Voluntary We set out our commitments in our human Principles on Security and Human Rights. rights policy and our code of conduct. Our 2002 operating management system (OMS) BP sets up the Tangguh Independent contains guidance on respecting the rights Advisory Panel to monitor our LNG project of workers and community members. 2003 in Indonesia, assessing impacts on indigenous people as well as security We are working towards alignment with the BP establishes the Caspian Development and human rights. UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Advisory Panel to provide independent advice on our management of human Rights by implementing our human rights rights and other issues during construction policy. Our focus is on identifying and of the Baku-Tbilisi-Ceyhan pipeline. addressing human rights risks, including those associated with the recruitment and living 2006 conditions of contracted workforces on our BP publishes group-wide guidance sites, and on enhancing community grievance on human rights. mechanisms and channels for workforces to 2010 raise their concerns. BP integrates major project requirements to screen for potential impacts on We seek to prevent any potential negative workforce welfare and to consult with impacts of our operations on the livelihoods, indigenous peoples into our OMS. land, environment, culture, health and 2011 wellbeing of people in communities near our Independent human rights experts review alignment of BP’s policies and practices activities, including indigenous peoples. We with the UN Guiding Principles. They aim to minimize and mitigate any unavoidable 2012 highlight that OMS is a good foundation impacts. We screen our major projects to BP creates a formal governance structure and provide recommendations for further identify and manage potential impacts, for managing human rights issues and an improvement. including human rights. See page 45. action plan for implementing relevant sections of the UN Guiding Principles. Raising concerns 2013 We encourage employees, contractors, BP begins training employees and communities and other third parties to speak leadership teams on our newly launched up if they see something they feel to be 2014 human rights policy. potentially unsafe, unethical or harmful. BP integrates human rights Grievances can be lodged through our considerations into guidance for our confidential helpline, OpenTalk (see page 43), mergers and acquisitions teams to use or our community complaints systems. when assessing opportunities. Where we identify that we have caused or 2015 directly contributed to adverse impacts on the BP incorporates human rights clauses human rights of others, we commit to provide into the standard model contracts we use when we enter into new procurement for or co-operate to remedy these impacts. 2016 agreements. • BP develops a supplier human rights due diligence process. •B P establishes a senior leadership group to look at human rights risks of potential group significance. • BP includes human rights in impact assessment requirements for projects. BP Sustainability Report 2016 33 Labour rights Modern slavery Modern slavery encompasses a range of Given the breadth and complexity of our activities and supply chain, we are focusing our efforts where we believe there could be exploitative practices including forced or We believe that BP’s compulsory labour, human trafficking and greater risk. servitude. Through this work, we have identified large employees, as well as our upstream construction projects as priorities We are assessing the risk of modern slavery contractor and supplier in our business and supply chain by taking for review. In our downstream portfolio, we are focusing on selected sites that we workforces, should work into account: operate in our lubricants, fuels retail and • countries identified as posing a high degree in safe, healthy, secure of risk by Verisk Maplecroft, a risk analytics refining businesses. We are also reviewing certain shipping activities and suppliers and fair conditions. firm. to our biofuels operations. • activities reliant on manual labour such as In some instances, this has led to further Our code of conduct and human rights policy cleaning, catering, construction and certain actions, including reviewing of contractor together reinforce our commitment to freedom types of manufacturing. workforce recruitment plans, conducting of association, equal opportunity and • factors related to the vulnerability of the onsite assessments of worker rights and non-discrimination, as well as the elimination workforce, such as poverty levels; ethnic, verifying contractors’ commitments of all forms of modern slavery. religious or gender minorities; and migrant to labour rights. workers. S  ee bp.com/modernslavery Employees Through our code of conduct, employees are required to report any human rights abuse in either our operations or those of our business Drawing on our work with industry peers, When appropriate, we conduct labour partners. we have developed a human rights due rights audits that look into potential issues We are strengthening employee awareness of diligence process that can be used to screen such as working hours, compensation, our human rights policy and potential human suppliers in a consistent way anywhere in the non-discrimination, prevention of forced labour rights impacts relevant to our work. For world. We piloted this with potential suppliers and human trafficking, and other rights outlined example, we provide updates to our upstream in 2016 and are planning wider use in 2017. in the International Labour Organization’s procurement teams on legislative changes and Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Monitoring recent media coverage of human rights cases Rights at Work. We are taking a risk-based approach to specific to oil and gas companies. monitoring our contractors and suppliers. We held more than 30 human rights training events for approximately 400 employees in 2016. Our training covers what human rights means in an operational context, as well as specific topics such as security and human rights, workforce rights and welfare, and relationships with indigenous peoples. Senior leadership teams also participate in awareness-raising training. Working with contractors and suppliers We operate in 72 countries around the world and have more than 72,000 suppliers, with thousands more supporting them. We believe that people who work for our suppliers are Labour rights audits in our among potential suppliers. The focus was on entitled to do so under conditions that respect migrant workers – checking that they were their rights and dignity. Malaysian supply chain ethically recruited and employed under safe and humane conditions. We expect our contractors and their employees to act consistently with our We piloted labour rights audits in our Working hours, recruitment processes, code of conduct and our human rights policy. supply chain as part of qualifying selected freedom of movement and employment The standard model contracts that our potential suppliers in Malaysia in 2016. contracts were identified as areas for procurement teams use when agreeing We chose Malaysia because of its level improvement. Working together with Verité new contracts include requirements for our of risk with respect to the prevalence of and BP, suppliers developed and put in place suppliers to respect internationally recognized forced labour and human trafficking among management plans to remedy the issues human rights in their work for BP, with a migrant workers. within a specified time frame. specific prohibition on the use of forced The pilot included potential suppliers As a result of this collaboration, one of the or trafficked labour. of equipment for BP’s retail sites around suppliers was successful in its bid for BP the world. business and was awarded a contract. We are continuing to monitor progress We worked with non-profit organization against the agreed remedial actions. Verité to identify any labour rights issues 34 BP Sustainability Report 2016 Overview Taking action on Focusing on safe Maximizing value Respecting Managing local Foundations for climate change operations to society human rights environmental impacts operating responsibly In 2016 our downstream business conducted audits to assess potential suppliers as part of our pre-qualification process. In our upstream business, we took steps to review human rights aspects of our spot-chartering activities in the North Sea. Where we find an issue, we prefer to work with companies to resolve the problem rather than to terminate the contract. Otherwise, the situation of people whose rights are at risk may not improve and may even get worse. If a serious breach is found and no corrective action is taken following our intervention, then we reserve the right to terminate contracts. In our biofuels business in Brazil, we use a tool to review contractor documentation, including policies governing human rights issues, copies of identification documents for age verification, and payslips and timesheets to check working to enhance the due diligence aspects of hours and wage rates. This enables us to our spot-chartering activities in the assess whether our contractors are respecting North Sea. the labour rights of their employees. We asked existing and potential suppliers Rights of contracted workforce Responding to human to answer a targeted set of human rights Around 70% of the hours worked in our rights concerns at sea questions – tailored to the marine industry upstream business are carried out by and based on IPIECA guidance – and to contractors. In 2016 we produced guidance provide documentary evidence of their for upstream projects detailing how BP’s BP chartered a vessel to carry two cargos processes and practices. Based on their existing processes can support the fair of equipment to a drilling rig in the North Sea answers and our existing due diligence treatment of contracted workers. The guidance in 2016. Sailing under an Indian flag, this checks, we created a prequalified pool of includes performance indicators that projects particular vessel has operated safely in the spot-charter companies. can consider to check that labour rights are area for several years. From our work in the North Sea, we found respected, such as the number and type When off hire from BP, the UK Maritime and that some of the shipping companies of worker grievances. Coastguard Agency detained the vessel after reviewed already have adequate procedures a crew member raised a concern regarding in place. Others have made improvements to salary payments. It emerged that the crew their procedures. For example, one company had not been paid regularly, with some owed has undertaken to conduct annual audits at least two months’ salary. The Maritime of the agencies that recruit and hire their and Coastguard Agency released the vessel seafarers to check that they comply with once the owner had paid the crew. our requirements on labour rights. Those We reviewed our contracting process for who did not meet our requirements are no hiring the vessel and decided to take steps longer working for us. Security and Voluntary Principles on Security We periodically conduct internal assessments and Human Rights to identify areas where we can improve implementation. For example, a 2016 review of human rights We are a signatory to the Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights, which provide a framework for companies to assess our Tangguh LNG facility in Indonesia identified some training gaps, which we addressed by recruiting a security training lead for the region whether human rights issues are likely to in 2017. BP works to protect our occur as a result of security activities within We provide details of our progress on security people and facilities in a local operations, and to allow appropriate precautionary steps to be taken. and human rights issues in an annual report manner that respects Employees accountable for assessing to the Voluntary Principles plenary, which is available at bp.com/humanrights. human rights. and managing security receive guidance to help them understand BP’s approach to To share and promote best practice, we work implementing the Voluntary Principles. This with governments, other companies and Providing security for our assets around the non-governmental organizations (NGOs), includes the mechanisms we use to identify world can be complex, especially in locations whether or not they participate in the Voluntary and mitigate potential issues, our interaction where there is a higher likelihood of conflict or Principles. For example, we have been working with public security forces and private security violent crime. We engage with the security with NGO International Alert to update their providers, and progress evaluation. forces that protect our facilities to help them guidance for extractive businesses on understand and respect the human rights of operating in conflict-affected environments. our workforce and people living in communities near our operations. BP Sustainability Report 2016 35 Managing local environmental impacts Our goal of achieving no damage to the environment guides our actions. We consider local conditions when determining which issues would benefit from the greatest focus. What we are doing Water 37 Air quality 38 Biodiversity and sensitive areas 39 36 BP Sustainability Report 2016 Overview Taking action on Focusing on safe Maximizing value Respecting Managing local Foundations for climate change operations to society human rights environmental impacts operating responsibly Water Water sources At our Khazzan gas development in Oman, we treat wastewater from our sewage BP withdraws fresh water from rivers, lakes, treatment plant and reuse it for irrigation, reservoirs and underground aquifers for our road construction and dust suppression, BP recognizes the operations. We purchase water from municipal drinking water suppliers and use treated saline reducing freshwater demand in an area of water scarcity. importance of managing water in many areas, such as in our gas operations in Oman. freshwater use and In 2016 more than 66% of our total freshwater We’ve been taking actions to reduce water discharges in withdrawals were returned to the environment, freshwater use in areas of water scarcity for many years. For example, at our Kwinana our operations. following appropriate treatment to meet local permitted standards. refinery in Australia, 93% of freshwater demand is instead supplied by treated We use fresh water in our drilling, hydraulic The decrease in our freshwater withdrawal in municipal wastewater and non-potable fracturing, upstream production, refining, 2016 is primarily due to reduced demand groundwater. Most of our onshore operations petrochemicals and biofuels operations. We for cooling water when two refineries were are in places where there is a mature also use non-fresh water, such as seawater, taken offstream for planned maintenance, and regulatory regime, such as Europe and to support upstream oil and gas production, the divestment of our Decatur petrochemical the US, where allocation of water is and treated municipal wastewater at some plant in the US. well governed. of our refineries. In addition to freshwater withdrawals, we report The exploration, production and refining of oil our water consumption – that is, water we use and gas accounts for around 1% of global that is not returned to the local water basin. We Alistair Wyness freshwater withdrawals. Locally though this believe this provides a more comprehensive Group water expert, safety and operational risk, BP proportion can be higher, so we think it’s picture of our potential impacts. important to look at local conditions, such In 2016 the volume of water consumed per unit as water stress and scarcity, to manage of production – the consumption intensity – potential impacts. remained at a similar level to 2014 and 2015. How we evaluate water risk Managing discharges to water We assess water risks in our portfolio each Our operations manage significant volumes of year. We consider the local environment wastewater, created, for example, when using and quantity, quality and regulatory impacts, water to test vessels or pipelines and from using tools such as the IPIECA Global Water cooling water. We also manage what is known Tool and the World Resources Institute as produced water, which comes to the surface Aqueduct Global Water Atlas. during the production of oil and gas. This water We also conduct detailed assessments is either treated and then returned to the More information using the Global Environment Management environment, reinjected back into the oil or See bp.com/hsechartingtool for our 10-year water Initiative Local Water Tool. We’ve applied the gas reservoir or disposed of through other performance data tool at six of our existing operations and permitted means. incorporated it into impact assessments for five new projects since 2012. We use the outcomes to develop management plans that are appropriate to local conditions. Water performance For example, at our Sangachal terminal in 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Azerbaijan, we identified freshwater use as a Freshwater withdrawal (million m3) potential issue due to water stress in the local area. We reviewed our water demands and • Group 354 289 280 285 257 developed actions which have led to a 75% • Upstream 9.5 10.3 7.6 6.8 5.7 reduction in freshwater withdrawals between • Downstream 337 271 263 264 239 2013 and 2016. • Other businesses and corporate 7.4 7.9 9.9 13.5 12.2 Based on the IPIECA Global Water Tool, Freshwater consumption (million m3) we estimate that slightly less than half of our • Groupa – 106 93 92 87 major operations withdraw fresh water in • Percentage of withdrawala – 37 33 32 34 areas where its availability is considered Consumption intensity (tonnes water/tonnes production) stressed or scarce. These operations are mainly in our downstream business. • Groupa – – 0.37 0.38 0.36 They account for 21% of our total freshwater Discharges to water withdrawals. We have not identified any • Upstream significant risks from our withdrawal and – Mass of produced water per unit consumption of fresh water from our of productiona – – 0.7 0.6 0.7 2016 analysis. • Refining and chemicals – Wastewater treatment measured as 49 46 52 40 49 chemical oxygen demand (mg/l) a Data for freshwater consumption and percentage of withdrawal was not reported in 2012 and water consumption intensity data was not reported in 2012 and 2013. BP Sustainability Report 2016 37 Operations in five states Water use and we list the chemicals we use at each The volume of freshwater withdrawn by our site. We also submit data on their use at our unconventional gas operations was 1.3 million hydraulically fractured wells in the US, to the Environmental impacts m3 in 2016, which represents 0.5% of the group extent allowed by our suppliers, who own the of unconventional gas total. We are testing a number of water-saving chemical formulas, at fracfocus.org or other innovations, using new technologies that could state-designated websites. make it possible for us to treat water used in We have unconventional gas operations in Earth tremors fracturing for reuse in our operations. five states in the US and will be producing gas While small earth tremors caused by hydraulic in Oman from 2017. Some stakeholders have Emissions fracturing are rarely felt at the surface, the raised concerns about the potential impacts We are working to minimize air pollutant and underground injection of wastewater may of hydraulic fracturing. We provide more greenhouse gas emissions, such as methane, pose a risk of induced seismic activity in information in our issue briefing, which is at our operating sites. See pages 15 and 18 for certain situations. We identify natural faults available at bp.com/unconventionalgas. more information. in a local area and manage our operations to mitigate this risk. Water contamination Chemicals Our wells are designed, constructed, The water and sand that make up 99.5% Local habitats operated and decommissioned to mitigate of the injection material used in hydraulic We work to avoid impacts to sensitive the risk of gas and hydraulic fracturing fluids fracturing are mixed with chemicals that help habitats and threatened species. In the San entering underground aquifers, such as reduce friction and control bacterial growth Juan basin, for example, we monitor potential drinking water sources. in the well. We work with service providers impacts on bald eagles so that we can better to minimize chemical use where possible, schedule our activities to reduce any impacts. Air quality Our Whiting refinery is one of the largest testing activity in North Africa and the Middle refineries in the US, with the potential to East were partially offset by decreases in have a significant impact on local air quality. drilling activity in the Gulf of Mexico. The We have reduced our air emissions there decrease in emissions of non-methane The production of oil and by more than 50% over the past five years hydrocarbons is primarily due to portfolio by minimizing the amount of gas flared and changes in our downstream business, gas can contribute to air emissions from process equipment. We such as the divestment of our Decatur pollution in surrounding monitor sulphur dioxide, hydrogen sulphide, petrochemical plant in the US. Sulphur oxide benzene and other pollutants at the periphery emissions have remained even. communities. of the refinery and make this data available on the refinery’s website. This forms part of our Tackling local air quality is increasingly of commitment to provide comprehensive air Emissions to air by component (kte) interest to communities, governments, quality information to the local community. 91 regulators and other stakeholders, driven 2016 36 We are piloting portable air quality mainly by public health concerns. 125 monitoring pods that contain real-time 94 Some of our activities, such as burning fossil technology, designed to measure nitrogen 2015 36 fuels at our operations for power generation oxides and sulphur oxides in different 123 99 and operating our shipping fleet, emit air climates and physical environments. We 2014 39 pollutants. We put measures in place to tested the pods at our Sangachal facility 129 manage these emissions, in line with in Azerbaijan, and found that the data 102 2013 41 regulations and guidelines designed to provides a better understanding of the 129 protect the environment and the health impact of our emissions. 114 of local communities. 2012 51 The increase in emissions of nitrogen oxide in 140 See page 20 for how we help our customers 2016 is primarily due to operational variability 50 100 150 reduce emissions from the use of our products. in our upstream business. For example, Non-methane hydrocarbons Sulphur oxides emissions from increased drilling and well Nitrogen oxides 38 BP Sustainability Report 2016 Overview Taking action on Focusing on safe Maximizing value Respecting Managing local Foundations for climate change operations to society human rights environmental impacts operating responsibly Biodiversity Marine environments Four of our major operations have activities in international protected areas. This includes BP has an extensive deepwater portfolio and two pipelines in World Heritage sites. Our and sensitive we work to understand how our operations shipping fleet sometimes passes through may disturb marine habitats or sensitive protected areas as part of normal operations. areas. We use technology to collect data areas See bp.com/protectedareas Project screening and impact assessment on underwater sound and marine mammals. For example, we are investigating the use of a marine autonomous vehicle at our Clair Ridge We evaluate all new projects to determine field in the UK to gather baseline environmental We work to avoid whether planned activities could affect international protected areas. information. activities in or near If our screening process shows that a Despite deciding not to progress our exploration protected areas and take proposed project’s planned activities could drilling programme in the Great Australian Bight, we have committed to continue to support the affect or enter an international protected area, actions to minimize and we conduct a detailed impact assessment Great Australian Bight research programme until it concludes in 2017. This research examines mitigate potential impacts before activities can take place and identify ways to first avoid, and if needed, minimize the biological and socio-economic importance on biodiversity. and mitigate any potential impact. We then of the Bight and aims to support any future developments to co-exist with the area’s require executive approval before any physical environment, industries and communities. Some of our activities occur in places that activities can take place. may have cultural significance, are home In the Arctic, we operate nine onshore fields No new BP project has sought permission for to protected species, or are in areas with on Alaska’s North Slope. Our offshore interests entry into or work in an international protected outstanding biological, geographical or social in the Arctic are currently limited to areas for area since 2006. value. We recognize that some areas may exploration. be considered particularly sensitive for oil See bp.com/arctic and gas activities. Decisions to operate in these areas are made only after careful consideration on a case-by-case basis. Biodiversity We work with conservation organizations, including The Nature Conservancy and Fauna and Flora International, to help understand biodiversity trends, issues and threats. We also work with local non-governmental organizations and communities to manage wildlife issues around our sites. For example, in Alaska, we support Polar Bears International and the Wildlife Conservation Society. In preparation for the expansion of our Tangguh liquefied natural gas plant in Indonesia, we assessed potential impacts on the local habitat, focusing on endangered or native species. To help conserve the We discussed the potential impact that these biodiversity, we have relocated priority plant sound waves might have on turtles and marine species to nearby forests, including orchids Assessing the impact of mammals with local marine authorities and the and fan palms, and will continue to monitor seismic surveys on turtles marine scientific community. their health. in Trinidad & Tobago We also consulted with local organizations, And at our Cherry Point refinery in the US, such as Nature Seekers, and marine mammal we have created new wetland habitats and observers. These groups work closely with established a citizen science programme to Our work in Trinidad & Tobago requires great the local fishing community, whose activities monitor amphibian populations. sensitivity, not least because the country is provide valuable information on turtle host to one of the world’s largest nesting movements. International protected areas populations of leatherback turtles. Because of this collaboration, we were able Due to the growing number of protected In 2016 we finalized plans for a seismic to plan our seismic surveys to avoid areas areas, our reporting now focuses on our survey to map and evaluate the potential located within 30 kilometres of the coastline activities that are in or close to the most for new underwater oil and gas reserves. and considered sensitive for the local turtle sensitive areas, which we refer to as Such surveys involve vessels that emit population during nesting season. Most ‘international protected areas’. We review predominantly low frequency sound pulses importantly, this work will help to inform the the location of our activities in and close to by releasing compressed air into the water. future approaches that others take – both these areas each year, as this can change The subsequent sound waves are reflected inside and outside our industry – when from year to year as governments update off the geological formations that lie below working with turtles in Trinidad & Tobago protected area designations. the seabed and are recorded. and elsewhere. BP Sustainability Report 2016 39 Foundations for operating responsibly We work to attract and retain the best talent the world offers. Our code of conduct and values underpin how we work. And we have a clear and consistent framework to help us identify and address the many forms of risks we face. What we are doing Our people 42 Ethical conduct 43 How we manage risk 44 Managing our environmental 45 and social impacts 40 BP Sustainability Report 2016 Overview Taking action on Focusing on safe Maximizing value Respecting Managing local Foundations for climate change operations to society human rights environmental impacts operating responsibly Governance of sustainability issues The board sets the tone from the top and is responsible for the overall conduct of our business. The board and its committees The board works with management to In 2016 SEEAC reviewed the risk of consider specific issues – from strategy marine, wells, pipelines, explosion or and geopolitical issues, through to safety, release at our facilities, and major security environment and reputation. Our board is incidents. Site visits are an important part made up of the chairman, two executives of SEEAC’s role, allowing direct interaction and 11 non-executive directors, and with operating teams. SEEAC members benefits from the diverse balance of met with teams at our unconventional gas background, gender, skills and experience. operations in Colorado, the Geel There are three female directors on the petrochemicals plant in Belgium and the board and two directors from non-UK/US North Slope facilities in Alaska to see how Caption: A member of SEEAC discusses safety backgrounds. they were managing safety and other measures at our gas operations in Colorado. operational matters. Six board committees provide oversight on certain activities. One of these, the safety, The board has a dedicated committee that ethics and environment assurance monitors the geopolitical landscape and Governance in practice committee (SEEAC), looks at the considers the effect that heightened processes adopted by BP’s executive political or social tensions, or changes in Oversight of human rights management to identify and mitigate key relationships, can have on the issues goes right to the top significant non-financial risk. economic and operating environment of the organization. for BP. SEEAC reviews our human rights The executive team and its committees performance, including our approach to The executive team is accountable for BP’s Several executive-level committees – assessing and managing risks associated overall business, including sustainability such as the group operations risk with modern slavery. performance. It comprises the group chief committee and the group ethics and executive and the heads of businesses and compliance committee – facilitate the The group operations risk committee certain functions, such as safety and group chief executive’s oversight of reviews progress on plans to manage operational risk and human resources. sustainability issues. potential risks of modern slavery. Business segments and functions Our human rights working group looks O  ur businesses and functions integrate It comprises senior leaders from strategy at human rights risks of potential group risk assessments into processes such as and policy, upstream, downstream, legal, significance. strategy, planning and performance safety and operational risk, and management. government and political affairs. Business functions and local operations Our issues management working group The process for prioritizing these issues is implement actions to help us meet identifies and monitors real or potential integrated into our assessment of material our human rights policy commitments, issues of material importance to BP. issues for this report (see page 2). such as providing channels for local communities to raise concerns. Local operations M  anagement and staff in our operations environment, social responsibility, identify risks and implement BP’s operational reliability and related issues. requirements on health, safety, security, BP Sustainability Report 2016 41 Our people BP’s success depends on having a talented and diverse workforce. The millennial generation doesn’t just want career growth; they also expect to make a positive contribution to society. So we need to do a better job of talking about the prosperity we bring to countries, about the Caption: Graduates of science, technology, engineering and maths at a BP careers event. community development projects we deliver, about the work we are leading to address carbon emissions, and about our commitment to the energy transition. held additional face-to-face meetings with Diversity and inclusion employees, and we’ve provided managers Our goal is to create an environment of with practical guidance on energizing and inclusion and acceptance, where everyone is Bob Dudley motivating their teams. treated equally and without discrimination. Group chief executive, BP Our annual employee survey found that To help foster an inclusive environment, perceptions of how changes in the business employees have established resource groups have been communicated have improved since Attracting and retaining the in areas including gender, sexual orientation, 2015, with notable rises in positivity in our right people parenting, disability and ethnicity. BP retained trading and upstream businesses. its position as the UK’s top energy company in We prefer building capability and promoting Confidence in the future of BP has also risen to the annual Stonewall Workplace Equality Index people from within our organization and we 64% in 2016 (2015 58%, 2014 63%), with solid in 2016. complement this with selective external improvements in pride in working for BP and recruitment for specialist roles. Our gender balance is steadily improving, with trust in management. However, scores related women representing 33% of BP’s population We provide a wide range of on-the-job learning to career opportunities, reward and recognition and 22% of group leaders – our most senior and mentoring programmes, as well as online are not as high as we would like them to be managers – at the end of 2016. Our aim is for and classroom-based courses. Structured and we will review actions to address these women to represent at least 25% of group leadership courses support employees moving areas in 2017. leaders by 2020. into more senior positions. We were pleased to be named one of the best Following the retirement of our executive vice Our average expenditure on learning and places to work in the UK at the Glassdoor president of corporate business activities in development was around $4,000 per person in Employees’ Choice Awards 2017. 2016, we are considering how best to increase 2016 (2015 $4,000). female representation at executive level. We continued to invest in graduate and early Rewarding performance At the end of 2016, there were three female career recruitment in 2016, albeit at a reduced We offer a competitive reward package, based directors (2015 3, 2014 2) on our board of 14. level. A total of 231 graduates joined BP in on what our employees deliver and how they Our nomination committee remains mindful of 2016 (2015 298, 2014 670). We are working demonstrate behaviour that reflects our diversity when considering potential to increase our visibility in the graduate job values. All employees must set priorities candidates. market and in 2016, students voted us the regarding their contribution to safety, UK’s Most Popular Graduate Recruiter in compliance and risk management. We are committed to increasing the national the energy and utilities sector at the Target diversity of our workforce to reflect the We link the remuneration of our executive Jobs Sector Awards. countries in which we operate. A total of 26% team to strategy and performance. The of our group leaders came from countries other structure reflects the long-term nature of our A tough environment than the UK and the US in 2016 (2015 23%, business and the significance of safety and 2014 22%). A lower oil price has meant that we have environmental risks. Performance measures continued to adapt and reshape our for pay related to safety and operational risk See page 28 for information on our organization. This has contributed to a include recordable injury frequency, tier 1 approach to local workforce development. reduction in overall headcount of 10,000 over process safety events and loss of primary the past two years. Our focus is on retaining containment. BP employees by gender the skills we require to maintain safe and See bp.com/remuneration for information (% women) reliable operations. on how we reward our board of directors. 2014 2015 2016 Engaging our employees All staff 31% 32% 33% We recognize that this is a stressful time for Graduate hires 37% 44% 45% our staff, which is why we have increased our communications to help address employee Group leaders 18% 19% 22% concerns and to explain the business rationale behind the changes. The executive team has Board directors 14% 20% 21% 42 BP Sustainability Report 2016 Overview Taking action on Focusing on safe Maximizing value Respecting Managing local Foundations for climate change operations to society human rights environmental impacts operating responsibly Ethical conduct We lay out our commitment to high ethical standards in our code of conduct. Our code of conduct is based on our values and clarifies the principles and expectations for how we work at BP. It applies to all employees and members of the board. We expect and encourage our contractors and their employees to act in a way that is consistent with our code and we take appropriate actions where we believe that they have not met our Caption: A site manager discusses safety with drilling contractors on our Mad Dog platform in the Gulf of Mexico. expectations, or their contractual obligations. Each year, our employees and our board members certify that they understand the Speaking up Our businesses dismissed 109 employees for code, have abided by their responsibilities and non-conformance with our code of conduct or reported any breaches of which they were We want our employees, contractors and other unethical behaviour in 2016 (2015 132, 2014 aware. We train our employees on applying third parties to feel comfortable speaking up 157). This excludes dismissals of staff the code of conduct in their daily work. whenever they have a question about our code, employed at our retail service stations. or see something that they feel is potentially unsafe, unethical or harmful. Our values Lobbying and political donations Employees are encouraged to discuss their We prohibit the use of BP funds or resources questions or concerns with their managers, Safety supporting teams, works councils (where to support any political candidate or party. relevant), or via BP’s confidential helpline, We recognize the rights of our employees to Respect OpenTalk. participate in the political process. Their rights to do so are governed by the applicable laws in A total of 956 people contacted OpenTalk with the countries in which we operate. For concerns or enquiries in 2016 (2015 1,158, 2014 Excellence 1,114). The most common concerns related to example, in the US we support the operation of the BP employee political action committee the people section of the code. This includes Courage (PAC), which is a non-partisan committee that treating people fairly, with dignity and giving encourages voluntary employee participation everyone equal opportunity; creating a in the political process. All BP employee PAC respectful, harassment-free workplace; and One Team protecting privacy and confidentiality. contributions are reviewed for compliance, comply with the law and are publicly reported OpenTalk cases in accordance with US election laws. (by code of conduct chapter) The way in which we interact with Promoting ethical behaviour governments depends on the legal and 2016 Our awareness training on our code and our 2015 regulatory framework in each country. We values is tailored to reflect local conditions. 2014 engage across a range of issues that are For example, in Brazil a large proportion of 2013 relevant to our business, from regulatory our workforce are agricultural employees, with 2012 compliance, to understanding our tax liabilities, varying levels of formal education and little, 375 750 1,125 1,500 to collaborating on community initiatives. or no, access to computers. We designed Operating safely, Our assets and responsibly and reliably financial integrity We are members of multiple industry short, interactive plays covering topics such as Governments and communities Our business partners associations that offer opportunities to share health and safety, workplace harassment and Our people best practices and collaborate on issues of how to raise a concern. We also established importance to our sector. Their positions don’t a nominated ethics and compliance BP has zero tolerance for retaliation against always reflect our own – given that they reflect representative at each of our three mills, who anyone who seeks advice, raises a concern, a compromise of the assorted views of the helps to resolve any issues promptly through reports misconduct or participates in an membership. the correct channels. investigation. The consequences for We held ethics and compliance weeks in misconduct or retaliation range from various locations, such as Angola, India and coaching and performance management Indonesia, in 2016. During these weeks, through to dismissal. employees participated in Q&A panels with senior leaders and took part in sessions on ethical dilemmas and legal compliance. BP Sustainability Report 2016 43 How we 2 The second line of defence is our safety as related issues, such as maintenance, and operational risk team, which works contractor relations and organizational learning, alongside operating businesses. The into a common management system. manage risk team is responsible for setting clear requirements, maintaining an independent view of operating risk, providing assurance It sets out the rules and principles that govern key risk management activities such as inspection, testing, competency development, We work in a complex on how risks are being managed, and intervening when appropriate to bring about as well as business continuity and crisis response planning. OMS also helps us improve industry so we must corrective action. the quality of our activities. All businesses manage many forms 3 Our group audit team is the third line of covered by OMS undertake an annual performance improvement cycle and assess defence, visiting sites on a risk-prioritized of risks. basis, including third-party drilling rigs, to alignment with the applicable requirements check how they are managing risks. of the OMS framework. Any variations in the We look at strategic, operational and application of OMS, in order to meet local compliance risks across the group. BP’s operating regulations or circumstances, are subject to a governance process. External market conditions, for example, can management system impact our financial performance. We actively Our operating management system (OMS) is a manage this risk through BP’s diversified Our joint venture partners group-wide framework designed to help us portfolio, our financial framework, regular manage risks in our operating activities and In joint ventures where we are the operator, reviews of market conditions and our planning drive performance improvements. our OMS, code of conduct and other policies and investment processes. apply. We aim to report on all aspects of our OMS brings together BP requirements on business where we are the operator – The diverse locations of our operations around health, safety, security, the environment, social as we directly manage the performance of the world expose us to a wide range of political responsibility and operational reliability, as well these operations. developments and consequent changes to the operating environment. We seek to manage this risk through our relationships with governments and stakeholders. In addition, we closely monitor events and implement mitigation plans where appropriate. Changes in laws and public policies relating to Employee climate change, such as carbon pricing, could awareness impact our assets, costs, revenue generation and demand for our products. We are working to help make sure our business is sustainable – commercially, environmentally and in a lower carbon future. See bp.com/annualreport for more information on our risk management. Board oversight We identify risks for particular oversight by the board in the coming year. For 2017 those include financial resilience, geopolitical risk, security, ethical misconduct, legal and to steal information without their knowledge. regulatory non-compliance, trading nonSo we remind staff to ‘think before you click’ compliance, cybersecurity and incidents and be vigilant for phishing emails, calls and associated with the drilling of wells, operating Encouraging employees other suspicious requests for information facilities and transporting hydrocarbons. to think before they click and to report any such attempts to our digital security operations centre. The three lines of defence We conduct ‘ethical phishing’ tests to We prioritize the safety and reliability of our We rank cybersecurity as one of our highest educate our employees in this area. In these operations to protect the welfare of our priority risks. We deal with attempted cyber tests, we use the same tactics as a real workforce, local communities and the attacks on our business every day. phishing request to see how our employees environment. Employees are our first line of defence react, without compromising our people or against these attacks and we promote secure 1 Our operating businesses are our first line information in any way. The number of behaviours to help mitigate this growing risk. of defence. They are responsible for employees who click on the links in the test identifying and managing risks and bringing We focus on practical rules that we promote emails has fallen by more than 70% since together people with the right skills to do through films, e-learning and sessions 2012. Over the same time, there has been a this. They verify their own conformance delivered by senior managers and our digital significant increase in the number of with safety and operating requirements and security team. One of our rules addresses employees reporting the phishing tests. are also subject to independent scrutiny ‘phishing’, which is the attempt to trick The programme is driving real change in and assurance. people into revealing sensitive information awareness, and we remain vigilant as the and can involve installing malicious software threat continues to evolve. 44 BP Sustainability Report 2016 Overview Taking action on Focusing on safe Maximizing value Respecting Managing local Foundations for climate change operations to society human rights environmental impacts operating responsibly Where we are not the operator, our Independent monitors OMS is available as a reference point for BP An ethics monitor and a process safety monitor businesses when engaging with operators were appointed under the terms of the plea and co-venturers. We monitor performance agreement that BP reached with the US and how risk is managed in our joint ventures, government in 2012, following the Deepwater whether we are the operator or not. For Horizon accident in 2010. The ethics monitor example, in Canada we have 50% ownership was also appointed under the terms of an of the Sunrise oil sands venture but it is administrative agreement reached with the operated by another company. We US Environmental Protection Agency in 2014. benchmark the operator’s safety, financial and environmental performance against Under the terms of both agreements, we are our expectations. And BP representatives on taking additional actions to further enhance the venture’s governance committee are ethics and compliance across BP and the responsible for confirming that activities are safety of our drilling operations in the Gulf consistent with our investment requirements of Mexico. The agreements have terms of five and code of conduct. years and we are working closely with the monitors who will review ongoing progress Around 45% of our upstream production until the agreements end. and 7% of our refining capacity in 2016 were from joint ventures where BP is not the operator. We have a group framework to assess BP’s exposure related to safety, operational and bribery and corruption risk from our participation in these types of ventures. Managing our We carry out a screening process to identify Baku-Tbilisi-Ceyhan pipeline runs through an the potential impacts that these projects could environmentally sensitive part of Georgia. We have over their lifetime, such as impacts on determined the best way to monitor for environmental sensitive or protected areas and water use. For example, we conducted baseline assessments potential pipeline leaks while avoiding the need to dig pipeline trenches was to use specially and social in the Foz Do Amazonas basin, 160 kilometres trained ‘sniffer’ dogs. The dogs’ ability to detect from the coast of Brazil, ahead of planned gas in the parts per billion range allows us to exploration activity. This was part of our monitor for pipeline leaks while avoiding impacts environmental impact assessment and oil spill response planning, which we did in partnership with other operators in the area. The disruption to the land. Decommissioning and remediation Our OMS helps our businesses around the assessments included water and sediment We work to restore the environment when world to understand and minimize sampling, monitoring of sea currents, as well closing down a site or in response to an unplanned environmental and social impacts. as bird, fish and marine mammal surveys. incident. When evaluating and selecting the most We apply internal practices and external We also consider social aspects, including appropriate approach, we take into account standards, such as the ISO 14001 prevalence of corruption and bribery in the host environmental and social considerations, such environmental management standard, at country, local employment, security and human as the reuse of materials and the views of local different times over the life of an operation to: rights, resettlement, community health and communities. For example, at a former gas safety, and the livelihoods of local communities, plant in Kansas in the US, approximately 97% • identify and assess potential impacts in the of the materials from the decommissioning including indigenous peoples. planning stages process were recycled or reused, including The findings help us to design and then carry • take appropriate steps to mitigate impacts concrete and building materials. out impact assessments, identify mitigation throughout operations measures and implement these in project • monitor and mitigate impacts after design, construction and operations. Complying with regulations operations have ended. With operations in more than 70 countries, We review our management of material issues Operations BP is subject to diverse and complex environmental and social laws and regulations. such as climate change, human rights, air Our operating sites can have a lifespan of We manage applicable legal and regulatory quality, biodiversity, water and how we engage several decades and our operations work health, safety, security, environmental and with communities. to manage environmental and social impacts social requirements through our OMS. throughout. Project planning Every year, our major operating sites review We have specific requirements and their environmental performance and set local More information recommendations governing how we identify improvement objectives. These can include and manage potential impacts of projects that Engaging with communities measures for reducing flaring, greenhouse gas Page 30 carry particular environmental and social risks. and air emissions, and waste. Our approach to human rights These apply to our major projects, projects that We prioritize our efforts according to local Page 33 involve new access, those that could affect an environmental sensitivities and their impact on Managing local environmental impacts international protected area and some BP Page 36 nearby communities. For example, part of the acquisition negotiations. BP Sustainability Report 2016 45 Sustainability in action Our website features case studies on how we are putting our actions into practice around the world. to the provision of bursaries and technical training. Our Brighter Prospects scholarship programme, for example, specifically targets young people resident in the community in Investing in education in which we operate – Mayaro. Trinidad & Tobago The initiative provides financial assistance to students who gain access to tertiary education at approved institutions, offering In 2001, only 7% of young people in Trinidad academic support covering expenses such & Tobago went on to participate in university as books, travelling and accommodation. or tertiary-level education, compared to 30% Launched in 2003, the programme has so far in the developed world. In response, the provided more than 500 scholarships to government instituted a programme which students in a myriad of disciplines, and in has seen participation rates increase to more 2014 we expanded the programme to include than 60%. postgraduate scholarships. We have supported this government drive in See bp.com/trinidadeducation several ways from building capacity through We are improving infrastructure within the communities surrounding the mills in a number of ways. This includes supporting schools to implement a nationally recognized syllabus that aims to increase the standard of education. We are also establishing partnerships with British language schools to offer employees and their families the opportunity to learn English as a second language at significantly discounted rates. As part of a pilot programme in the Virtual reality prepares Increasing female communities around Tropical, our largest mill, drilling teams representation in Brazil we are working to increase the availability of childcare resources by providing training to more than 40 teachers and childcare Using state-of-the-art facilities in Denmark BP became the first international energy assistants. The training aims to improve their and the US, BP staff and contractors can company to operate sugar cane ethanol mills skills and knowledge in the areas of first aid, simulate the specific conditions of a drilling in Brazil in 2011. As we expand these mills, teaching and working with children. operation, including the same rocks, we are working with our employees and local We are already seeing positive results, with temperatures and pressures – even the communities to encourage women to join our women’s employment in administrative, same physical impact of the ocean currents workforce where representation is low. agricultural, industrial or maintenance roles – in order to replicate critical jobs on the rig. We are developing specific training rising from 8% to almost 13% in three years. This training in the virtual world is helping programmes so that women can learn the BP to drill more safely and efficiently in the particular skills they need for the job. For See bp.com/brazilrepresentation real world. The hands-on, scenario-based example, we have introduced a programme approach goes well beyond traditional at our Tropical mill to train women who have classroom training and allows drilling teams not worked in the agricultural sector before to practice events and joint procedures as tractor drivers. together as an integrated unit. See bp.com/maersktraining 46 BP Sustainability Report 2016 Overview Taking action on Focusing on safe Maximizing value Respecting Managing local Foundations for climate change operations to society human rights environmental impacts operating responsibly UN Sustainable Development Goals The UN Sustainable Development Goals aim to overcome global challenges such as poverty, hunger, inequality and climate change. Ensure access to affordable, Take urgent action to Our core business of delivering energy reliable, sustainable and combat climate change and to the world contributes directly to goals modern energy for all. its impacts. 7, 8 and 13. 11 Two decades of helping to tackle The way we operate supports 4-5 How we run our business climate change implementation of many of the other goals, 6-7 BP around the world such as those on clean water (p37), 15 Supplying natural gas and 12-13 BP’s role in a lower carbon future industry, infrastructure and innovation (p17), managing methane 14 Calling for a price on carbon responsible consumption and production 16 Providing renewable energy 15 Supplying natural gas and (p18-20), and life below water and on managing methane land (p39). 17 Investing in start-ups and innovation 16 Providing renewable energy We have been working with our industry 17 Investing in start-ups and association, IPIECA, on the role of the goals Promote sustained, inclusive and innovation and implications for our sector. We continue sustainable economic growth, to monitor the goals as they move to 18-19 Pursuing efficient operations international and national implementation. full and productive employment 20 Helping our customers reduce and decent work for all. emissions 27 Maximizing value to society 28-29 Supporting local development 30 Engaging with communities 31 Fostering transparency and anti-corruption About our reporting Cautionary statement BP Sustainability Report 2016 and bp.com/sustainability recruitment and retention of a skilled workforce; the success This Sustainability Report and or otherwise of partnering; the actions of competitors, trading contain certain forward-looking statements with respect to bp.com/sustainability concentrate on the financial condition, results of operations and businesses partners, creditors, rating agencies and others; the actions of performance and activities from 1 January to of BP and certain of the plans and objectives of BP with contractors; our access to future credit resources; business 31 December 2016. We aim to report on all respect to these items. In particular, among other statements, disruption and crisis management; the impact on our BP’s outlook on global energy trends to 2035 and its plans in reputation of ethical misconduct and noncompliance with aspects of our business, including joint regulatory obligations; trading losses; major uninsured losses; connection therewith, plans relating to the diversity of our ventures where we are the operator. Where workforce, plans and expectations regarding BP’s advanced natural disasters and adverse weather conditions; changes in appropriate, we also seek to provide an and proprietary technologies and techniques and GHG public expectations and other changes to business conditions; overview of joint venture activities where we emissions and intensity, expectations regarding the wars and acts of terrorism, cyber-attacks or sabotage; and commercialization and sustainable production of biofuels and other factors discussed elsewhere in this document and are not the operator, but where we have under ‘Risk factors’ in our Annual Report and Form 20-F 2016 use of wind energy, the timing, composition and production of significant influence on our partners. current, planned and future projects, expectations regarding as filed with the US Securities and Exchange Commission. We validate the content with our external the oil price environment, plans regarding support of labour Material is used within this document to describe issues for rights, training, local development and biodiversity and voluntary sustainability reporting that are considered to have assurance provider, Ernst & Young, whose expectations regarding future regulatory developments, are the potential to significantly affect sustainability performance remit includes commenting on the prominence forward looking in nature. in the view of the company and/or are expected to be given to each topic and identifying any gaps. By their nature, forward-looking statements involve risk and important in the eyes of internal or external stakeholders. uncertainty because they relate to events and depend on Material for the purposes of this document should not, We apply the Global Reporting Initiative’s therefore, be read as equating to any use of the word in other circumstances that will or may occur in the future and are G4 guidelines, and we use IPIECA guidance. outside the control of BP. Actual results may differ materially BP p.l.c. reporting or filings. BP Annual Report and Form 20-F We also report against the UN Global from those expressed in such statements, depending on a 2016 may be downloaded from bp.com/annualreport. No material in this Sustainability Report forms any part of that Compact’s 10 principles on human rights, variety of factors, including the specific factors identified in document. No part of this Sustainability Report or bp.com/ the discussions accompanying such forward-looking labour, environment and anti-corruption. sustainability constitutes, or shall be taken to constitute, an statements; the receipt of relevant approvals; the timing and level of maintenance and/or turnaround activity; the timing of invitation or inducement to invest in BP p.l.c. or any other See bp.com/reportingstandards entity and must not be relied upon in any way in connection bringing new fields onstream; the timing, quantum and nature of certain divestments; future levels of industry product with any investment decisions. BP p.l.c. is the parent supply, demand and pricing; OPEC quota restrictions; PSA company of the BP group of companies. Unless otherwise effects; operational and safety problems; potential lapses in stated, the text does not distinguish between the activities product quality; economic and financial market conditions and operations of the parent company and those of its generally or in various countries and regions; political stability subsidiaries. and economic growth in relevant areas of the world; changes in laws and governmental regulations; regulatory or legal actions; the actions of prosecutors, regulatory authorities and courts; delays in the processes for resolving claims; exchange rate fluctuations; development and use of new technology; BP Sustainability Report 2016 47 Independent assurance statement We have performed a limited assurance engagement 4. Reviewed the coverage of material issues Observations and areas for on selected performance data and statements within the Report against the key sustainability presented in the BP p.l.c. (‘BP’) Sustainability Report issues raised in external media reports and the improvement 2016 (‘the Report’). outputs from BP’s processes for determining Our observations and areas for improvement will material sustainability issues. be raised in a report to BP management. Selected Respective responsibilities 5. Reviewed information or explanations about observations are provided below. These observations do not affect our conclusions on the Report set BP management are responsible for the collection and selected data, statements and assertions out above. presentation of the information within the Report. BP within the Report regarding BP’s sustainability management are also responsible for the design, performance. • BP has continued to develop its reporting on climate implementation and maintenance of internal controls change, including information on managing relevant to the preparation of the Report, so that it is methane, pursuing efficient operations and on the free from material misstatement, whether due to The limitations of our review increasingly important role of renewables in a low fraud or error. Our evidence gathering procedures were designed carbon future. Stakeholders, including investors, to obtain a ‘limited level’ of assurance (as set out continue to seek enhanced disclosures in relation to Our responsibility, in accordance with BP in ISAE3000 Revised) on which to base our BP’s actions to manage climate-related risks and management’s instructions, is to carry out a ‘limited conclusions. The extent of evidence gathering opportunities. There is an opportunity for BP to level’ assurance engagement on selected data and procedures performed is less than that of a report further information on how it measures performance claims in the Report (‘the subject matter reasonable assurance engagement (such as a progress made against these actions. information’). We do not accept or assume any financial audit) and therefore a lower level of responsibility for any other purpose or to any other assurance is provided. • BP has commitments to increasing both the person or organisation. Any reliance any such third representation of women in group leadership party may place on the Report is entirely at its own risk. Our work did not include physical inspections positions and the national diversity of its workforce of any of BP’s operating assets. to represent the countries in which it operates. What we did to form our Completion of our testing activities has involved However, whilst data is reported for gender and placing reliance on BP’s controls for managing and examples are provided of specific locations where conclusions local nationals are well represented, it is less clear reporting HSE information, with the degree of Our assurance engagement has been planned and reliance informed by the results of our review of the how successful BP has been in expanding the performed in accordance with ISAE3000 (Revised).1 effectiveness of these controls. We have not sought representation of local nationals in leadership to review systems and controls at BP beyond those positions. The Report has been evaluated against the used for HSE data. following criteria: Our independence • Whether the Report covers the key sustainability Our conclusions We have implemented measures to comply with the issues relevant to BP in 2016 which were raised in applicable independence and professional competence the media, BP’s own review of material Based on the scope of our review our conclusions are outlined below: rules as articulated by the IFAC Code of Ethics for sustainability issues, and selected internal Professional Accountants and ISQC1.2 Ernst & Young’s documentation. Materiality independence policies apply to the firm, partners and • Whether the health, safety and environment (HSE) Has BP provided a balanced representation of professional staff. These policies prohibit any financial data presented in the Report are consistent with material issues concerning BP’s sustainability interests in our clients that would or might be seen to BP’s Environmental Performance Group Reporting performance? impair independence. Each year, partners and staff are Requirements and HSE Reporting Definitions. required to confirm their compliance with the firm’s • We are not aware of any material aspects policies. • Whether sustainability claims made in the Report concerning BP’s sustainability performance which are consistent with the explanation and evidence have been excluded from the Report. We confirm annually to BP whether there have been provided by relevant BP managers. any events including the provision of prohibited • Nothing has come to our attention that causes us services that could impair our independence or to believe that BP management has not applied its objectivity. There were no such events or services in Summary of work performed processes for determining material issues to be 2016. Our assurance team has been drawn from our The procedures we performed were based on our included in the Report. global Climate Change and Sustainability Services professional judgement and included the steps Practice, which undertakes engagements similar to Completeness and accuracy of outlined below: this with a number of significant UK and international Performance Information 1. Interviewed a selection of BP’s senior How complete and accurate is the HSE data businesses. managers to understand the current status of in the Report? Ernst & Young LLP, London safety, social, ethical and environmental activities, 6 April 2017 and progress made during the reporting period. • With the exception of BP’s share of Rosneft in relation to greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, 2. Reviewed selected group level documents we are not aware of any material reporting units relating to safety, social, ethical and environmental that have been excluded from the group-wide aspects of BP’s performance to understand HSE data. progress made across the organisation and test the coverage of topics within the Report. • Nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the HSE data has not been collated 3. Carried out the following activities to review properly from group-wide systems. health, safety and environment (HSE) data samples and processes: • We are not aware of any errors that would materially affect the data as presented in the a. Reviewed disaggregated HSE data reported Report. by a sample of 23 businesses to assess whether the data had been collected, How plausible are the statements and claims consolidated and reported accurately. within the Report? b. Reviewed and challenged supporting • We have reviewed information or explanation on evidence from the sample of businesses. selected statements on BP’s sustainability activities presented in the Report and we are not c. Tested whether HSE data had been collected, aware of any misstatements in the assertions consolidated and reported appropriately at made. group level. 1 International Federation of the Accountants’ International Standard for Assurance Engagements (ISAE3000) Revised, Assurance Engagements Other Than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information. 2 Parts A and B of the IESBA Code; and the International Standard on Quality Control 1 (ISQC1). 48 BP Sustainability Report 2016 Acknowledgements Design: SALTERBAXTER MSLGROUP Paper: This document is printed on Oxygen Typesetting: SALTERBAXTER MSLGROUP paper and board. Oxygen is made using 100% Printing: Pureprint Group Limited, UK, recycled pulp, a large percentage of which is ISO 14001, FSC® certified and CarbonNeutral® de-inked. It is manufactured at a mill with ISO 9001 and 14001 accreditation and is Photography: Aaron Tait, Arnhel De Serra, FSC® (Forest Stewardship Council) certified. Arnoldo Kikuti, Ed Robinson, Emilu Damasceno, This document has been printed using Diki Nugruo, Graham Trott, Jon Challicom, vegetable inks. Marc Morrison, Mehmet Binay, Richard Davies, Scott Clarke, Stuart Conway Printed in the UK by Pureprint Group using their printing technology. BP’s corporate reporting suite includes information on our sustainability and financial performance, as well as our global energy and technology projections. We also publish issue briefings on oil sands and unconventional gas development. Sustainability Oil sands issue Unconventional Annual Report and Report 2016 briefing gas issue briefing Form 20-F 2016 Details of our sustainability Information on our approach Details of our approach to Details of our financial performance with additional to developing energy from managing the potential and operating performance information online. Canada’s oil sands. impacts of hydraulic in print and online. bp.com/sustainability bp.com/oilsands fracturing and unconventional bp.com/annualreport gas development. bp.com/unconventionalgas BP Energy Outlook Statistical Review BP Technology Outlook BP social media 2017 edition of World Energy 2017 Shows how technology can play a Join the conversation, get the Provides our projections of future An objective review of key major role in meeting the energy latest news, see photos and energy trends and factors that global energy trends. challenge out to 2050. films from the field and find out could affect them out to 2035. bp.com/technologyoutlook about working with us. bp.com/statisticalreview bp.com/energyoutlook You can order BP’s Feedback printed publications free Your feedback is important or write to: of charge from: to us. You can email the Corporate reporting bp.com/papercopies corporate reporting team at BP p.l.c. corporatereporting@bp.com 1 St James’s Square US and Canada London Issuer Direct or provide your feedback SW1Y 4PD, UK Toll-free: +1 888 301 2505 online at bpreports@issuerdirect.com bp.com/annualreportfeedback UK and rest of world You can also telephone BP Distribution Services +44 (0)20 7496 4000 Tel: +44 (0)870 241 3269 Fax: +44 (0)870 240 5753 bpdistributionservices@bp.com
