Deloitte Serbia: UNGC Communication on Progress Report for 2015/16 Making an impact that matters 00 Making an impact that matters Contents Basic data; Brief description of nature of business 2 Statement of continued support to UNGC 3 Principles 1 and 2 4 Principles 3, 4 and 5 6 Principle 6 8 Principle 7 and 8 10 Principle 9 11 Principle 10 12 Availability of Communication on Progress 13 01 Deloitte Serbia: UNGC | Contents Basic data Company: Deloitte d.o.o. Beograd Address: Terazije 8, 11 000 Belgrade Country: Serbia Contacts: Aleksandra Gregović, MCBD Manager E-mail: agregovic@deloittece.com Phone: +381 (0) 11 3812-180 Number of employees: 215 Sector: Professional services Date of submission of COP: 8 June 2017 Brief description of nature of business Deloitte is the brand under which tens of thousands of dedicated professionals in independent firms throughout the world collaborate to provide audit, consulting, financial advisory, risk management and tax services to selected clients. 02 Making an impact that matters Statement of continued support for the UN Global Compact As Partners in Deloitte Serbia, we hereby confirm our continued support for the Global Compact. We find the Global Compact to be a valuable tool when working towards upholding social and environmental ethics throughout all links of our work. Deloitte takes actions in working with other organizations to address challenges faced in common by businesses, governments, and communities, in keeping with our continued support for the 10 principles of the United Nations Global Compact. Signature: Miloš Macura Country Leader Serbia, Montenegro, Macedonia and Republic of Srpska 03 Making an impact that matters Principle 1 Business should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights In our workplace, human rights typically take the form of nondiscrimination and diversity personnel practices, privacy, professional development, and work-life fit. Deloitte values differences – in thought, style, culture, ethnicity and Deloitte has embedded concern for human rights in its core values, as a means of integrating respect for one another in our culture. Principle 2 Business should ensure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses Our commitment or policy Deloitte recognizes that we have a responsibility to uphold human rights in the workplace and to use our influence and reach to foster support for human rights more broadly within society at large. We work to address human rights issues within our community. In the workplace, human rights take the form on non-discrimination and diversity in personnel practices, professional development that aids employability, and work-life balance. Recruiting and retaining activities reflect a desire to hire professionals who share Deloitte’s values and commitment to responsible business. Thanks to Deloitte’s emphasis on gender equality, Deloitte Central Europe, whose network member is Deloitte Serbia, had the honor of being selected as the only professional services firm to be a summit partner at the 2016 Women’s Global Summit, held in Warsaw in June 2016. This event has for 25 year been known as the premier business and economic forum for women globally. As one of the summit’s partners, we were able to contribute our thinking on how to build an inclusive economy, with this year’s theme focusing on inclusion in the digital age. 04 Making an impact that matters Helping Those in Need Every year Deloitte Serbia visit kids with disabilities who live or spend their time in one of the specialized institutions in Serbia. In the past two years, we visited them in Aleksinac and Šabac just before Christmas. Santa Clause party and X-mas gifts were organized with the help of humanitarian organization “Veliki Mali Ljudi”. Purpose: bring hope to less fortunate youngsters and make them feel contributing citizens in the community. A cap for handicap Employees of Deloitte have been collecting for two years plastic caps from plastic bottles and tetra packs. The money collected from recycling those caps is intended for orthopedic products which will help disabled people in the Republic of Serbia to improve their quality of life. 05 Making an impact that matters Principle 3 Business should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Principle 4 Business should support the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor Principle 5 Business should support the effective abolition of child labor Our commitment or policy Deloitte Shared Values and Ethical Principles prescribe that all interaction between Deloitte and its people, as well as interaction among Deloitte people, must be characterized by integrity, trust, and mutual respect. Listening to its people allows Deloitte to prioritize their interests and concerns, and address them with appropriate communications, policies, programs, and member firm services. One of the most important responsibilities of Deloitte senior leaders is to emphasize commitment to ethical behavior and reinforce the responsibility of everyone in the organization to act with integrity. 06 Making an impact that matters Actions implemented People survey – Employee voice can be heard Deloitte Serbia, in accordance to the global DTT policy conducts every second year an anonymous people commitment surveys to lend a voice to employees through which to communicate with leadership. The people commitment survey gives the employees a chance to state their opinion on various internal and external business issues. Results are collected, analyzed and followed up in each department and problems are addressed in a constructive manner. A number of key conclusions and development areas are identified based on the feedback received and immediate actions have been taken into consideration. 07 Making an impact that matters Principle 6 Business should support the elimination and discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Our commitment or policy Trust is at the heart of all services that Deloitte delivers. That’s why our ethical principles and commitment to strong governance are more than just statements – they are the foundations on which our business success and reputation are based. The ethical behavior of our people is the foundation of Deloitte Serbia’s success. Everybody in our firm has a responsibility to make sure that what they do every day ensures our name remains synonymous with quality. That’s why, around the world, highly respected and often market-leading organizations trust Deloitte professionals to carry out their most ambitious projects, manage highly confidential information and develop ideas, approaches and initiatives that can alter the course of their businesses. That is why we actively and aggressively integrate ethics into all our key initiatives and processes, always stressing quality and consistency of approach. It is a key driving force in making an impact that matters. 08 Making an impact that matters More about ethics at Deloitte Deloitte’s ethical principles are at the heart of our governance structure. Our Code of Conduct, predicated on Deloitte’s global Ethical Principles and Shared Values, provides the ethical framework on which we as employees of the firm base our decisions. The structure of the Code is: We commit to serving clients with distinction:  Integrity  Quality  Professional behavior  Objectivity  Competence  Fair business practices  Confidential information and personal data protection We commit to inspiring our talented professionals to deliver outstanding value:  Respect, diversity and fair treatment  Professional development and support We commit to contributing to society as a role model for positive change:  Anti-corruption  Responsible supply chain  Social responsibility Deloitte’s Shared Values and Ethical Principles also include nondiscrimination and inclusion as integral parts of the way the network functions. 09 Making an impact that matters Principle 7 Business should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Principle 8 Business should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility DTTL believes that business and institutions need to become more sustainable in order to secure long-term prosperity for society and themselves. We manage sustainability programs at our local level, in line with the DTTL Corporate responsibility policy and our own policies and priorities. Environmental policy Deloitte is encouraging among the staff the use of:  Video-conference facilities for virtual meetings  On-line training programs  Conference calling facilities  Webinars  Electronic storage of data, work and training materials  Complete electronic internal communication Actions implemented Green Four June 2016 For the 5th consecutive year Deloitte, KPMG, PwC and E&Y, known as Big 4, organized a joint CSR volunteer activity. We spent a day with the users of one of the orphanages in Belgrade and helped them clean the yard and surrounding area of the center. 10 Making an impact that matters Principle 9 Business should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Our commitment or policy We think that each company has a responsibility to minimize the impact of its business on the environment. Therefore, Deloitte Serbia carries out several actions in the “Green dot” program, aimed at improving our relationship to the environment. “Green dot” program The activities implemented as part of the “Green dot” program include:  Bins for collecting waste paper in all premises and open office spaces  Recycling printer toners  Two-sided printing set as default option for printers  Introducing the message “Please consider environment before printing this e-mail” as an obligatory part of all e-mail signatures. 11 Making an impact that matters Principle 10 Business should work against corruption in all Deloitte Confidentiality & Insider Trading Eforms, including extortion and bribery learning Course Educational program on the Ethical Principles of Training obligatory for all employees the Member Firms of Deloitte Anti-money laundering training Educational programme on the Ethical Principles is mandatory for all our employees. It is an onAnti-money laundering training is obligatory for line education that uses examples and scenarios all employees. from the real life, as well as the resource on ethical business that can be used by our experts Our commitment or policy around the clock. Deloitte also provides the independence and compliance surveys, insuring At the heart of our business culture are the that our business practice is according to the Ethical Principles, adopted by each of Deloitte’s accepted rules and procedures. member firms and linking directly to our Global Shared Values. These nine principles define the Ethics in Action – Power of One training standards of ethical behaviour that unite all the people of DTT’s member firms. In particular, the principles offer guidance about appropriate Independence compliance confirmation ethical and professional conduct covering areas Maintaining compliance with the company’s that are critically important to the member firms’ independence policies is an important part of our clients, their people and society. The principles professional responsibilities. We take this are: Honesty and Integrity; Ethical Behaviour; seriously and are required to confirm annually to Competence; Objectivity; Confidentiality; Fair DTT that we have complied with all independence Business Practices; Responsibility to Society; policies. Respect and Fairness; Accountability and Decision-making. Measurable results or outcomes Date of completion Percentage of participants Activity Ethics education During 2016 100% Independence training During 2016 100% Anti money laundering training During 2016 100% 12 Making an impact that matters Availability of COP How does Deloitte Serbia intend to make this Communication on Progress available to the stakeholders? About Deloitte “Deloitte” is the brand under which tens of thousands of dedicated professionals in independent firms throughout the world collaborate to provide audit, consulting, legal, financial advisory, risk management, tax and related services to select clients. These firms are members of Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu Limited, a UK private company limited by guarantee ( DTTL ). Each DTTL member firm provides services in particular geographic areas and is subject to the laws and professional regulations of the particular country or countries in which it operates. Each DTTL member firm is structured differently in accordance with national laws, regulations, customary practice, and other factors, and may secure the provision of professional services in its territory through subsidiaries, affiliates, and other related entities. Not every DTTL member firm provides all services, and certain services may not be available to attest clients under the rules and regulations of public accounting. DTTL and each DTTL member firm are legally separate and independent entities, which cannot obligate each other. DTTL and each DTTL member firm are liable only for their own acts and omissions, and not those of each other. DTTL (also referred to as Deloitte Global ) does not provide services to clients. About Deloitte Serbia In Republic of Serbia, the services are provided by Deloitte d.o.o. Beograd (jointly referred to as “Deloitte Serbia”) which is an affiliate of Deloitte Central Europe Holdings Limited. Deloitte Serbia is one of the leading professional services organizations in the country providing services in five professional areas audit, consulting, financial advisory, risk management and tax services through over 200 national and specialized expatriate professionals. 13 Deloitte refers to one or more of Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu Limited, a UK private company limited by guarantee (“DTTL”), its network of member firms, and their related entities. DTTL and each of its member firms are legally separate and independent entities. DTTL (also referred to as “Deloitte Global”) does not provide services to clients. Please see www2.deloitte.com/rs/en/about-us to learn more about our global network of member firms. © 2017 Deloitte Serbia
