Mizuho Financial Group Integrated Report –Annual Review– 2017 April 2016 – March 2017 Our Corporate Philosophy Mizuho, the leading Japanese financial services group with a global presence and a broad customer base, is committed to: Providing customers worldwide with the highest quality financial services with honesty and integrity; Anticipating new trends on the world stage; Expanding our knowledge in order to help customers shape their future; Growing together with our customers in a stable and sustainable manner; and Bringing together our group–wide expertise to contribute to the prosperity of economies and societies throughout the world. These fundamental commitments support our primary role in bringing fruitfulness for each customer and the economies and the societies in which we operate. Mizuho creates lasting value. It is what makes us invaluable. Corporate Philosophy: Mizuho’s Mizuho’s Corporate Identity The Mizuho Values fundamental approach to business Customer First: activities, based on the The most trusted partner lighting the future raison d’etre of Mizuho Innovative Spirit: Vision: Progressive and flexible thinking Mizuho’s vision for the future, realized Team Spirit: through the practice of Diversity and collective strength “Corporate Philosophy” Speed: Acuity and promptness The Mizuho Values: The shared values and principles of Passion: Mizuho’s people, uniting all executives and Communication and challenge for employees together to pursue “Vision” the future 1 Mizuho Financial Group The most trusted financial services group with a global presence and a broad customer base, contributing to the prosperity of the world, Asia, and Japan 2017 Integrated Report 2 Editorial Policy Contents This Integrated Report includes financial information as well as non-financial information on such subjects as ESG. The report presents information on Mizuho’s efforts related to strategies, governance, and other subjects along with information on how those activities are leading to the creation of value for our customers, society, and Mizuho over the short, medium, and long terms. It was edited with the intention of providing stakeholders with About Mizuho concise and clear explanations in a story-like form. The content of this Integrated Report was reported to the CSR Committee and the Audit Committee of MHFG, and, after verification of appropriateness by the Disclosure Committee, 5 the report was given final approval by the President & Group CEO. We hope this report will further improve understanding of Mizuho and its goal of being “the most trusted financial services group with a global presence and a broad customer base, contributing to the prosperity of the world, Asia, and Japan.” Our Goals Guidelines Referred To International Integrated Reporting Council’s “International Integrated Reporting Framework” (published on December 2013) 11 Scope of the report Period covered: From April 1, 2016 to March 31, 2017 Also includes some information after April 2017 Scope covered: In principle, MHFG and its subsidiaries and affiliates Publication Information Date of issue: September 2017 Definition Our Strategies for MHFG: Mizuho Financial Group MHBK: Mizuho Bank Creating Value 23 MHTB: Mizuho Trust & Banking MHSC: Mizuho Securities TCSB: Trust & Custody Services Bank MHRI: Mizuho Research Institute MHIR: Mizuho Information & Research Institute MHPW: Mizuho Private Wealth Management All figures contained in this report are calculated using accounting principles generally accepted in Japan (“Japanese GAAP”). Forward-Looking Statements This Integrated Report contains statements that constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the United States Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, including estimates, forecasts, targets and Foundations for plans. Such forward-looking statements do not represent any guarantee by management of future performance. Our Corporate Value 65 In many cases, but not all, we use such words as “aim,” “anticipate,” “believe,” “endeavor,” “estimate,” “expect,” “intend,” “may,” “plan,” “probability,” “project,” “risk,” “seek,” “should,” “strive,” “target” and similar expressions in relation to us or our management to identify forward-looking statements. You can also identify forward-looking statements by discussions of strategy, plans or intentions. These statements reflect our current views with respect to future events and are subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions. We may not be successful in implementing our business strategies, and management may fail to achieve its targets, for a wide range of possible reasons, including, without limitation: incurrence of significant credit-related costs; declines in the value of our securities portfolio; changes in interest Financial Review/ rates; foreign currency fluctuations; decrease in the market liquidity of our assets; revised assumptions or other changes related to our pension plans; Company Information 91 a decline in our deferred tax assets; the effect of financial transactions entered into for hedging and other similar purposes; failure to maintain required capital adequacy ratio levels; downgrades in our credit ratings; our ability to avoid reputational harm; our ability to implement our Medium-term Business Plan, realize the synergy effects of “One MIZUHO,” and implement other strategic initiatives and measures effectively; the effectiveness of our operational, legal and other risk management policies; the effect of changes in general economic conditions in Japan and elsewhere; and changes to applicable laws and regulations. Further information regarding factors that could affect our financial condition and results of operations is included in “Item 3.D. Key Information—Risk Factors,” and “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects” in our most recent Form 20-F filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) and our report on Form 6-K furnished to the SEC on July 28, 2017, both of which are available in Appendix the Financial Information section of our web page at www.mizuho-fg.com/ 104 english/ and also at the SEC’s website at www.sec.gov. The contents of this Integrated Report were prepared prior to the announcement of our financial results for the first quarter of fiscal 2017. We do not intend to update our forward-looking statements. We are under no obligation, and disclaim any obligation, to update or alter our forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as may be required by the rules of the Tokyo Stock Exchange. 3 Mizuho Financial Group 1 Our Corporate Philosophy Index by Purpose Our Performance 5 Mizuho’s Journey 7 Business Domain 9 Mizuho by the Numbers 9 Mizuho by the Numbers 33 Mizuho in Fiscal 2016 91 Financial Review Business Strategy 11 Message from the Group CEO 17 Message from the Group CFO 7 Business Domain 21 Value Creation Process 23 Progress of the Medium-term Business Plan 35 Business Strategies by 23 Progress of the Medium-term Business Strategies by Company/Unit Company/Unit Business Plan 35 Retail & Business Banking Company 27  Proactive involvement in financial 39 Corporate & Institutional Company innovation 43 Global Corporate Company ESG Information 47 Global Markets Company 29 For the Sustainable Development of 51 Asset Management Company (Environmental, Social Society and Mizuho 55 Global Products Unit and Governance) 33 Mizuho in Fiscal 2016 59 Research & Consulting Unit 29 For the Sustainable 63 Increasing the Global Presence Development of Society and 65 Corporate Governance 79 Compliance Mizuho 69 Board of Directors 82 Fiduciary Duties 65 Corporate Governance 74  Message from the Chairman of 83 IT Strategy the Board of Directors 85 Embed a Corporate Culture that 85 Embed a Corporate Culture that 75 Risk Governance Encourages the Active Participation of Encourages the Active 77 Risk Management Our Workforce Participation of Our Workforce 89 Stakeholder Communication 91 Six-year Major Financial Data 97 Office Network (FY2011-2016) 99 Group Companies 92 Review and Analysis for Fiscal 2016 103 Corporate Profile 105 Compliance Contacts 126 Senior Executives 142 Financial Data of Mizuho Financial 106 Management Support for SME 128 Location of Offices outside Japan Group, Inc. [Under Japanese GAAP] Customers and Regional Revitalization 131 Investor Information 240 Non-Consolidated Financial Statements 107 Internal Audit Structure 132 Disclosure Policy of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. 108 Risk Management Structure 133 Privacy Policy Regarding Customer and Three Subsidiaries [Under 125 Business Continuity Management Information Japanese GAAP] 134 Financial Analysis [Under Japanese 254 Status of Capital Adequacy GAAP] 330 Websites 2017 Integrated Report 4 About Mizuho Mizuho’s Journey Always standing at the forefront of its time, 1873 The Dai-ichi Kangyo Bank 1999 Announcement 2002 Organization based of establishing a on customer segments 1873: Establishment of comprehensive financial created through split The Dai-ichi Bank 1971 services group <First as and merger method Establishment of the Daia Japanese Bank> <First in Japan> ichi Kangyo Bank through The Dai-ichi Bank the merger between (photo: National Diet Library) 1999 2000 Nihon Kangyo Bank 1880 Mizuho’s History The Fuji Bank Announcement of 1880: Establishment merger of the three of Yasuda Bank, 1948 former banks Changed name to The Establishment of MHFG 2002 Fuji Bank MHTB MHSC Yasuda Bank (photo: National Diet Library) Establishment of MHBK and former 1902 Mizuho Corporate Bank The Industrial Bank of 2,233.6 2,112.3 Japan ‌Consolidated Gross 1,993.0 Establishment as a Profits (JPY billions) special bank that not 627.3 only offers long-term fund but that equips the 406.9 (photo: The Mainichi) function of securities and trust banking 2002 2003 2004 ‌Profit Attributable to Owners of Parent (JPY billions) (2,377.1) Phase I (-1980s) Phase II (1990s) Phase III (2000s) Commercial banks, securities companies, and Era of conglomerates and Era of investment banks and insurance companies coexisted independently mega banks proprietary transactions 1988 1996 1998 History of the Financial Accord of Basel I Japanese “Big Bang” financial reform Merger between Citicorp and Travelers Industry Regulatory 1992 2004 environment Financial system Accord of Basel II reform 1999 US Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act 5 Mizuho Financial Group About Mizuho Mizuho’s Journey Mizuho’s DNA has carved out history 2014 Transformation 2016 Introduced a 2012 The group wide into a Company with full-scale In-house collaboration among Three Committee Company System banking, trust banking, <First as a Japanese <First as a and securities function Mega-bank> Japanese Bank> 2012 2013 2016 Introduction of InSubstantive One Bank Merger of banks, Merger of house Company 2006 securities companies System Listed on NYSE 2011 Turning of MHTB and MHSC into 2014 Strengthening functions of wholly-owned subsidiaries of MHFG the holding company 2,002.4 2,117.3 1,996.6 2,025.3 2,003.0 2,171.7 2,035.2 2,247.7 2,221.6 2,092.7 1,660.9 1,806.9 649.9 620.9 560.5 688.4 611.9 670.9 603.5 484.5 413.2 311.2 239.4 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 (588.8) Phase IV (2010s-) Pursuit of “New Financial Services” Subprime Mortgage Crisis 2010 2013 US Dodd-Frank Act Phase-in introduction of Basel III Lehman Crisis Tightening of regulations End of high return business model of Pursuit of ideal model for Finance non-conventional investment banking 2017 Integrated Report 6 About Mizuho Business Domain Mizuho Financial Group is composed of MHFG (holding company) and its subsidiaries and affiliates and provides banking, trust banking, securities, and other financial services. Under a holding company, the group has five in-house companies, which determine and promote strategies group-wide across banking, trust banking, securities, and other business areas according to the attributes of customers, and two units that support all of the in-house companies. Mizuho Financial Group Banking Trust Banking Securities Retail & Business Banking Company Corporate & Institutional Company Global Corporate Company Mizuho Mizuho Trust Mizuho Global Markets Company Bank & Securities Banking Asset Management Company (MHBK) (MHTB) (MHSC) Global Products Research & Unit Consulting Unit Other Core Group Companies * US Bank Holding Company, which is one of MHFG’s Core Group Companies and MHBK’s subsidiaries Mizuho Americas* 7 Mizuho Financial Group About Mizuho Business Domain (Group aggregate, management account, rounded figures) (JPY billions) [Reference] FY2016 Net Business Profits by FY2016 results FY2017 plan In-house Company Retail & Business Banking Company 13.0 47.0 Recalculated the FY2016 results based on the Corporate & Institutional Company 240.0 218.0 FY2017 management account rules. JPY40 Global Corporate Company 115.0 123.0 billion difference between In-house Company Total and Consolidated Net Business Profits Global Markets Company 315.0* 219.0 is due to adjustment of management account Asset Management Company 20.0 24.0 which is not attributable to the In-house In-house Company Total 703.0 631.0 Companies Consolidated Net Business Profits 663.4 640.0 *Global Markets Company net business profits including Net Gains related to ETF is JPY345 billion (preliminary) Research & Other Core Group Asset Management Consulting Companies Customers Mizuho Individual Customers / SMEs Private Wealth / Middle-market Corporations Management (MHPW) Large Corporations / Financial Institutions / Public-sector Entities Americas / EMEA / East Asia / Asia & Oceania Investors Asset Investors Management One Mizuho Research Institute (MHRI) Trust and Custody Services Bank Mizuho (TSCB) Information & Research Institute (MHIR) 2017 Integrated Report 8 About Mizuho Mizuho by the Numbers Human Capital and Intellectual 1 Employees: 60,000 No. Non-financial Information in analysts ranking for Capital 4 consecutive years Nikkei Veritas (Published on March 19, 2017): the most popular bond/forex analyst economist Institutional Investor: All Japan Research Team Ranking Comprehensive Individual Customers: Social and Relationship Capital Securities Accounts: 24 million 1.7 million SME & Middle-market Coverage of Listed Coverage of Forbes Global Borrowers, etc. Companies in Japan: 2007 (Non-Japanese Corporate Customers): 100,000 70 % 80 % Financial Information Proportion of Non-interest Income from Loan Balance8(Average Balance, Two Banks9), Customer Groups (Gross Profits) Non-performing Loan (NPL) Ratio (Group aggregated, management account) ■ Domestic Offices (JPY trillions) ■ Overseas Offices (JPY trillions) Financial Capital Non-performing Loan (NPL) Ratio(%) 71.5 72.6 73.8 16.7 18.5 20.0 Net NonInterest FY2016 interest 54.7 54.1 53.8 Income Income 1.20 1.00 1.00 46% 54% FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 1 April 2016 to March 2017, bookrunner basis, financial closing date basis, Source: Thomson Reuters 2 January to December 2016, bookrunner basis, Source: Thomson Reuters 3 April 2016 to March 2017, underwriting amount basis, pricing date basis. Deals including straight bonds, investment corporation bonds, FILP agency bonds, municipal bonds (lead manager method only), Samurai bonds, and preferred securities, excluding MHFG’s bonds. Source: I-N Information Systems 4 April 2016 to March 2017, bonds issued by investment grade corporations in the Americas, bookrunner basis. Source: Dealogic 9 Mizuho Financial Group About Mizuho Mizuho by the Numbers Syndicated Loans: No. 1 in Japan 1 (8 consecutive years) , No. 5 (No.1 among Japanese Globally 2 M&A Advisory for Announced Deals (Japanese corporations)5 1 banks) 1 9 DCM: No. in Japan 3 No. in the Americas4 No. (Straight bonds, municipal (No.1 among Japanese (Market share: 30.2%) bonds, etc.) financial institutions) Branches in Japan: ATMs6: Mizuho Direct (Internet banking) Members: 800 6,900 11 million 115 Joint Branches among Smartphone Apps Downloaded.: MHBK, MHTB, and MHSC: offices worldwide, covering 190 38 countries and regions 2 million DL Profit Attributable to Owners of Parent BIS Capital Ratio (%) Cash Dividend per Share of Common Stock, (JPY billions) ■ Common Equity Tier 1 Capital Ratio Dividend Payout Ratio ■ Tier 1 Capital Ratio ■■ Cash Dividend per Share (JPY) ■ Total Capital Ratio Dividend Payout Ratio (%) 670.9 611.9 603.5 15.41 16.28 550.0 14.58 12.64 13.30 7.5 7.5 7.5 7.5 11.50 11.34 10.50 9.43 31 35* 30 28 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 March 31, March 31, March 31, FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 (Estimate) 2015 2016 2017 (Estimated Dividend) *Assuming Net Income Attributable to MHFG for FY2017 of JPY550.0 billions 5 April 2016 to March 2017, number of deals basis. Any Japanese related deals, excluding real estate deals Source: Thomson Reuters 6 Number of proprietary ATM locations along with the number of other ATM locations offering the similar user fees through its own membership service. (1,906 MHBK ATM locations and 5,080 Aeon Bank ATM locations) 7 Top 200 corporations from Forbes Global 2000 (excluding financial institutions) 8 Excluding loans to MHFG. “Overseas Offices” is calculated based on an aggregate of banking and trust account basis and represents loans booked at overseas offices, including the impact of foreign exchange transaction 9 Aggregate figures for MHBK and MHTB on a non-consolidated basis 2017 Integrated Report 10 Our Goals Message from the Group CEO 11 Mizuho Financial Group Our Goals Message from the Group CEO As a financial services consulting group, we must thoroughly align ourselves with our customers’ needs, be their best financial solutions partner, and shape the future of economies and societies. Member of the Board of Directors Yasuhiro Sato President & Group CEO Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. 2017 Integrated Report 12 Our Goals Message from the Group CEO Mizuho’s Ultimate Goal Recently, financial industry business models have been undergoing major change. In particular in the 2000s, primarily in the Mizuho’s Corporate Philosophy*, “bringing fruitfulness for each West, where the adoption of a non-traditional investment banking customer and the economies and the societies in which we operate. business model at first reaped huge profits only to collapse due to Mizuho creates lasting value. It is what makes us invaluable,” the sub-prime mortgage issue and resulting global financial crisis. embodies our commitment to working as a united group to bring Financial institutions had become distanced from customers’ true sustainable and stable financial growth to a wide range of customers needs. Thus, at the end of this period of excessive prioritization of and contribute to the development of economies and societies financial and capital markets, financial institutions needed to reflect on around the world. their true purpose and seek to return to it. We believe that the unchanging value we generate as a financial With an understanding of the history that brought us to this institution is firstly our ability to shape the future of economies and point, Mizuho positioned the goal of fully implementing the “Customer societies due to our capability to take measured risks and to provide First” principle at the core of our previous medium-term business plan financial intermediary functions, and secondly our ability to act as and we are seeking to further pursue this goal in our current mediuma superior financial partner, supporting customers in the pursuit of term business plan. their dreams and hopes as well as guiding them towards solutions to I believe it is in Mizuho’s DNA to be a trailblazer and we will their issues or concerns. Though business models may change with draw on this quality in order to fully implement the “Customer First” the times, the value generated by these abilities is unchanging and principle by continually transforming our organization to thrive in the therefore we have incorporated them into our Corporate Philosophy coming era. which forms the basis for all of Mizuho’s business activities. In line with this Corporate Philosophy, in our medium-term The World is at a Major Turning Point business plan for fiscal years 2016 to 2018 we have positioned “becoming a financial services consulting group” as our ultimate goal. As for the business environment, the direction of the global economy Around the world, economic and societal change is taking place remains unclear and unpredictable. Although there are expectations for at a rapid pace. Consumer values are becoming more diverse, social a recovery, centered on the US, there is remaining uncertainty structures are becoming more complex, and globalization continues surrounding the policies of the new US administration, political issues in to advance. Under these circumstances, customer needs are Europe, and trends in the Chinese economy. Also, many developed becoming more sophisticated and social expectations are rising from countries are experiencing depopulation, facing declining birthrates and year to year. In order to meet these needs, we will work towards our an aging populace. Coupled with globalization, climate change, higher goal of becoming a financial services consulting group by committing geopolitical risk around the world, the rise of anti-globalization to being “a mediumto long-term financial partner, thoroughly aligned sentiment, and issues surrounding income disparity and poverty, it is to our customers’ needs, both their immediate needs and concerns clear that major global economic and social structural changes are as well as those which they have not yet realized, and drawing on our taking place. I believe we are at a major turning point. We cannot consulting capabilities to provide optimal solutions.” Here I would like continue on in the same direction as before. We must transform our to share with you the progress we have made towards achieving the organization to enable us to weather these changes and thrive in the ultimate goal we have set out for Mizuho as well as the direction we coming era. will take going forward. With negative interest rates having been introduced in Japan and *Mizuho’s Corporate Identity is composed of our Corporate Philosophy, Vision, and the Europe, the business environment continues to be challenging for Mizuho Values. financial institutions. We will need to continue to keep a close eye on the possibility of a US interest rate hike and changes to international 15 Years of Progress financial regulations which have been tightening since the global financial crisis. At the same time, advancements in digital technology April 2017 marked 15 years since Mizuho’s formation. have led to a push in many industries to further incorporate Looking back over the past years, it is clear that Mizuho has technology and this change has been both rapid and continuous. The been a trailblazer since our formation as Japan’s first megabank in financial industry is no different—Fintech startups and companies 2002. From 2012 we have been operating under a strategy of intrafrom other industries are emerging as new service providers of group collaboration among our banking, trust banking, and securities existing financial services, often in partnership with financial entities. In 2014 we were the first Japanese megabank to adopt a institutions. Needless to say, there is the potential for a major shift in “Company with Three Committees” model of corporate governance financial institution business models. (prior to amendment of Japan’s Companies Act, referred to as a “Company with Committees” model). Then in 2016 we became the first Japanese bank to adopt an in-house company system based on customer segments. 13 Mizuho Financial Group Our Goals Message from the Group CEO Looking Back on the First Year of Our Similarly, we brought together the research and consulting functions Medium-term Business Plan which had been scattered throughout the group into a collective titled “One Think Tank” and established the Research & Consulting Unit We established our current medium-term business plan with the as a means of strengthening the “fifth pillar” of our strategy. These aim of creating a new business model in response to changes in the were both major steps towards strengthening the group’s consulting business environment. capabilities. In our plan, we identify “fully implementing the ‘Customer First’ As for our pursuit of operational excellence, I am personally principle” and “pursuing operational excellence” as two key concepts serving as the Chairman of the Operational Excellence Promotion for attaining our goal of becoming a financial services consulting Committee in order to lead our efforts to transform employee group. Additionally, the plan focuses on the progressive development mindsets. In promoting operational excellence, we aim to increase of the One MIZUHO Strategy of collaboration among our banking, the efficiency of our overall operations by simplifying and streamlining trust banking, and securities entities, which we introduced in the operations, speeding up decision-making, and making other previous medium-term business plan. improvements. By combining these efforts with initiatives for In fiscal 2016, the first year of the current plan, we introduced increasing the sophistication of our operations through the proactive an “in-house company system” as a means of furthering our efforts incorporation of digital innovation, we aim to achieve not only a to fully implement the “Customer First” principle. This system has reduction in costs, but more importantly, enhance the value of the enabled us to better execute strategy based on customer segments, services we provide our customers. In fiscal 2016, some of the shortdelegate authority to in-house company heads in order to speed up term initiatives we advanced were those for streamlining and trimming decision-making, and strengthen initiatives for increasing income on down Head Office functions and those for revising our product an in-house company basis, among other benefits. and service offerings. We also fleshed out specific strategies and After banking, trust banking, and securities, we identified asset made progress towards mediumto long-term structural reforms by management as the “fourth pillar” of the One MIZUHO Strategy. In consolidating shared group functions and utilizing digital technology the past fiscal year we consolidated the group’s asset management in order to transform our business processes. functions in the newly established company, Asset Management One. 2017 Integrated Report 14 Our Goals Message from the Group CEO Despite the challenging business environment in fiscal 2016, business operations and fundamental enhancements to productivity. including negative interest rates, under our newly implemented inWe will implement a variety of initiatives in line with this management house company system Mizuho was able to increase non-interest net policy and the five basic policies under the medium-term business income on a group basis and make progress towards the disposal plan. of cross-shareholdings. As a result, we achieved Profit Attributable As a means of fully implementing the “Customer First” principle, to Owners of Parent of JPY603.5 billion, exceeding our projection of we will work to further optimize the in-house company system as well JPY600 billion set at the start of the fiscal year. We were also able as ensure that our actual business operations are in line with our to maintain a sufficient Consolidated Common Equity Tier 1 Capital policies and action plan regarding Mizuho’s fiduciary duties*. Also, in Ratio (CET1 Capital Ratio)* of 9.27% addition to our pursuit of operational excellence, we will implement *Basel III fully-implemented basis (based on current regulations), excluding Net Unrealized fundamental structural reforms as a means of responding to changes Gains on Other Securities. in the global economic climate and the regulatory environment for financial institutions. And with an eye to preparing for the future Accelerating the One MIZUHO Strategy through beyond the period of our current medium-term business plan, we will Commitment to Customer-focused Business devise and move towards the implementation of strategy with a focus Operations and Fundamental Enhancement of on strengthening cost competitiveness and increasing Gross Profits. Productivity In terms of strengthening cost competitiveness, we will revise our channel strategy to optimize the way we provide in-branch, online, Though the business environment is likely to remain uncertain in fiscal and mobile services. We will also transform business operations 2017, it is an important year for Mizuho as we seek to position through the use of digital technologies such as blockchain, streamline ourselves to succeed in the upcoming final fiscal year of our current and increase organizational efficiency on a group-wide basis, and medium-term business plan. implement IT system structural reforms, among other measures. As Our management policy for this fiscal year is to accelerate the for increasing Gross Profits, our plans include significantly shifting One MIZUHO Strategy through commitment to customer-focused Structural Reforms which Position Us to Succeed during the Current Medium-term Business Plan and Beyond FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 Medium-term business plan: “Progressive Development of One MIZUHO—The Path to a Financial Services Consulting Group” Business environment Unpredictability in the global economy Increasing uncertainty in terms of ability to meaningfully increase Gross Profits Structural changes in the economy and society Cost structure reform is becoming increasingly Challenging business environment for financial institutions essential for maintaining competitiveness Fully implement the “Customer First” principle Pursue operational excellence Mizuho’s initiatives Introduction of the in-house company system Implement structural reforms from FY2017 onward to respond to further changes in the business environment Selecting and focusing on business areas Establishment of a resilient financial base Directives 5 Basic Policies Reforms in Proactive involvement in financial innovation Strengthen cost Increase human resources competitiveness Gross Profits Embedding a corporate culture that encourages the active management participation of our workforce to support a stronger Mizuho 15 Mizuho Financial Group Our Goals Message from the Group CEO management resources to areas with high profitability and growth order to exemplify the Mizuho Values. potential, strengthening non-interest business, and utilizing digital Additionally, Mizuho is committed to addressing sustainability in a technology to create new business. Another one of our top priorities variety of fields, including social and environmental issues. Therefore, is to ensure a stable and smooth migration to Mizuho’s nextwe aim to ensure that our corporate social responsibility (CSR) generation IT system. We have been carefully preparing for the initiatives are strategic from a mediumto long-term perspective. system migration and are planning to roll out the new system to Mizuho’s CSR initiatives aim to contribute to the sustainable branches and departments in stages after completing a thorough development of society which, in turn, creates a foundation for the migration rehearsal and other testing. creation of new corporate value and further development for Mizuho. *Fiduciary duties is a general term for the broad range of various roles and responsibilities That is why we have positioned CSR as a core component of our that fiduciaries are expected to fulfill when engaging in certain business activities, in business activities. In recent years, more is expected of companies order to live up to the trust that is placed in them by their customers. in terms of addressing social issues, especially considering the shared world-wide goals for sustainable development which are Continually Enhancing Corporate Value now in place such as the United Nations’ sustainable development goals (SDGs) and the Paris Agreement, a new framework on climate In addition to these initiatives, it is essential that we continually change. Mizuho intends to meet these high expectations by running strengthen Mizuho’s corporate governance as this will not only our business in a way that creates value for our stakeholders while support our efforts to become a financial services consulting group simultaneously fulfilling our role within and duty to society. We will also but also contribute to the ongoing enhancement of our corporate proactively share information on our CSR activities and strengthen value. Mizuho has already proven to be a front-runner in corporate communication with stakeholders. governance among Japanese financial institutions as a result of our efforts to strengthen the functions of our holding company and our early transition to the “Company with Three Committees” model. In Conclusion In June 2017, Mizuho became the first Japanese bank to appoint As structural changes in the economy and society continue to external directors for the positions of Chairman of the Board of advance at a rapid pace, Mizuho must always be at the forefront of Directors and Chairmen of all three legally required committees in this change. After all, it is in our DNA to be a trailblazer and we must Japan. In doing so, we have put in place a framework to ensure a maintain a broad and forward-looking perspective in order to foresee more transparent and fair decision-making process as well as more our customer’ needs and predict further economic and social change. effective supervision. Going forward, we will continue to ensure By identifying solutions and strategies for these needs and changes, strict compliance with Japanese laws and regulations in addition to we can work in close partnership with our customers to contribute to proactively implementing global best practices in terms of business the sound development of local economies and societies. Through operations and administration, as befitting a globally expanding these actions, Mizuho can achieve a sustainable competitive financial group. Going forward, we will make every effort to further advantage, enhance our corporate value, and continue to be an enhance the sophistication of our corporate governance. irreplaceable and reliable presence for all of our stakeholders: our We will also put an equally strong emphasis on enhancing shareholders and customers, the local societies in which we operate, employee engagement and embedding a robust corporate culture. At and our employees and their families. Mizuho, we strongly believe that a financial institution’s most valuable We appreciate your continued support and will do everything in asset is its people. We will continue to implement fundamental our power to not only meet but exceed your expectations. reforms in human resources management in order to maximize employee engagement throughout our entire workforce. As we transition to human resources management practices which respect and focus on the individual, we will promote diversity and inclusion as July 2017 a means of supporting the advancement, development, and active participation of women, non-Japanese nationals, and other diverse talent. We will also put forward initiatives in areas such as flexible work arrangements and employee health management. In terms of corporate culture, I am confident that we will continue to cultivate a robust corporate culture through the accumulation of the day-today actions of each individual as we all remain aware of the Mizuho Yasuhiro Sato Values and seek to put them into practice. Each office will continue Member of the Board of Directors to identify their own specific goals in the form of an “office vision” and work towards achieving it. These efforts are another means of President & Group CEO encouraging each individual employee to take proactive measures in Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. 2017 Integrated Report 16 Our Goals Message from the Group CFO We aim to contribute to the growth and development of our customers and society by establishing a stable profit structure and robust financial base, while engaging in sound risk-taking and providing optimal solutions. Member of the Board of Directors Makoto Managing Executive Officer Umemiya Head of Financial Control & Accounting Group (Group CFO) Mizuho’s Financial Management Principles Overview of Fiscal 2016 Mizuho aims to contribute to the sustainable growth of our diverse During fiscal 2016, despite a challenging business environment range of stakeholders, particularly our customers, the economies including the continued negative interest rate policy of the Bank of and industries of Japan and countries around the world, and our Japan (BOJ) and increased uncertainty in the global economy, under shareholders. the newly introduced in-house company system, the group achieved To achieve this, our fundamental approach to financial JPY603.5 billion in Profit Attributable to Owners of Parent (exceeding management is to establish a stable profit structure and a robust our projection of JPY600 billion) due in part to factors such as profit financial base that can withstand changes in the business from cross-shareholding disposal and extraordinary gains as a result environment, and to fulfill our sound risk-taking function to help our of the establishment of Asset Management One. customers, economies, and industries realize growth. Under the BOJ’s negative interest rate policy, our loan and deposit rate margin continues to narrow, and it is increasingly 17 Mizuho Financial Group Our Goals Message from the Group CFO important for us to counteract the reduction in net structure reforms to make us well-prepared for the ■ Profit Attributable to Owners of Parent 603.5 interest income by increasing non-interest income. future, working to establish a stable profit structure In fiscal 2016 we were able to produce solid and robust financial base. JPY billion results such as an increase in solution businessRegarding specific financial targets, by the end related income from the Customer Groups, but we of fiscal 2018 we aim to achieve a CET1 Capital must seek to further accelerate our initiatives for Ratio of approx. 10%, Consolidated ROE2 of becoming a financial services consulting group as approx. 8%, RORA (Profit Attributable to Owners of -JPY67.3 billion (year-on-year) outlined in our medium-term business plan. Parent) of approx. 0.9%, a Group Expense Ratio 3 As for our capital, one of our top priorities of approx. 60% (excluding expenses related to the ■ Consolidated Net Business Profits among the financial targets in the medium-term next-generation IT system, etc.: higher 50% level), business plan is achieving a higher Consolidated Common Equity Tier 1 Capital Ratio (CET1 Capital and a reduction in cross-shareholdings of JPY550 billion4. In fiscal 2016 we have made steady JPY 663.4 billion Ratio)1 and we have made progress by increasing it progress towards each of these targets. to 9.27%. Currently, the direction of the world economy is more unpredictable and uncertain due to -JPY189.4 billion (year-on-year) Medium-term Business Plan increasing geopolitical risk, structural issues which Targets and Progress have materialized, and other factors. In such an ■P rogress in Fiscal 2016 Towards environment, it is more critical than ever that we Medium-term Business Plan Targets In May 2016 Mizuho established and released our respond quickly and advance business structure current medium-term business plan, “Progressive Development of ‘One MIZUHO’”, which is a threereforms in anticipation of what the future holds. In addition to fully implementing the “Customer First” 9.27 CET1 Capital Ratio % year plan through to the end of fiscal 2018. In the principle in line with our medium-term business current economic environment, with the slowdown plan, we will seek to strengthen income from in emerging economies, unstable commodity prices, developed economies losing steam, and Customer Groups, primarily non-interest income, by significantly shifting risk assets, personnel, and 8.5 Consolidated ROE % other factors, we cannot expect the same level of other management resources to areas with high 0.9 economic growth as there has been in the past. profit and growth potential. Therefore, we are aiming to advance business % RORA (Profit Attributable to ■ Financial Targets for Fiscal 2018 Owners of Parent) Group Expense Ratio3 Approx. 60% CET1 Capital Ratio1 Excluding expenses related to the nextgeneration IT system, etc.: higher 50% Approx.10% level Cross-shareholdings Disposal JPY550 billion4 1. Basel III fully-effective basis (based on current RORA (Profit Attributable regulations), excluding Net Unrealized Gains on Consolidated ROE2 to Owners of Parent) Other Securities Approx. 8% Approx. 0.9% 2. Excluding Net Unrealized Gains on Other Securities 3. Group aggregated 4. Shares listed on the Japanese stock markets, acquisition cost basis, cumulative amount from FY2015 to FY2018 2017 Integrated Report 18 Our Goals Message from the Group CFO Establishing a Stronger Financial Position ■ Operational Excellence Cost Structure Reform Controlling the Balance Sheet Strategically Under a continually challenging business Taking into consideration changes to international Quality environment where it is difficult to achieve significant financial regulations, the increasing uncertainty in Speed Accuracy growth in Gross Profits, cost structure reform is the economic climate, and other concerns, it is more important than ever. The front office and important that we control the balance sheet flexibly Head Office must work together in the pursuit of and proactively in anticipation of potential change, Cost Sustainability operational excellence and increase awareness of and that we achieve an optimal balance of risk and cost performance in order to control expenses and return. By implementing ROE management at the inensure effective expenditure. house company level as a means of establishing an Basic policy: Enhance the “4 Also, by utilizing Fintech and taking advantage effective management framework based on customer elements of operation” to a higher level of the amendments to Japan’s Banking Act in order segments, we aim to enhance awareness of risk and to consolidate business operations within the group, return and actively reallocate assets as we clarify We will pursue operational we will take different and innovative approaches in which business areas we will focus on or scale back excellence and move forward order to fundamentally improve productivity. from based on an analysis of the growth potential and with cost structure reforms. profitability of each area within our business portfolio. ■ Balance Sheet Control Initiatives for Fiscal 2017 ■ Strengthen balance sheet control to enhance resilience toward changing external environment and tightening regulations Consolidated Total As of March 2017: Assets JPY200 trillion ( ) represent changes from March 2016 • Improve risk-return Yen • Reduce low-profitability • Accelerate the shift from assets savings to investment/ Loans: asset building • Increase investment JPY78 trillion products balance and (+JPY4 trillion) accelerate the groupwide integrated business Deposits: promotion JPY130 trillion Non-yen (+JPY13 trillion) • Enhance attention toward non-yen funding costs Securities: including customer JPY32 trillion deposits (-JPY7 trillion) • Accumulate customer Stocks deposits systematically •Promote crossshareholdings disposal to achieve the disposal target • Steadily accumulate on an acquisition cost Retained Earnings in order basis to achieve CET1 Capital Other Assets Ratio of approx. 10% Bonds JPY89 trillion Other Liabilities: •Fully  instill early warning (+JPY9 trillion) JPY60 trillion system reflecting the (-JPY6 trillion) external environment Net Assets: conditions JPY9 trillion •Identify the timing to (-JPY0 trillion) reconstruct bond portfolio 19 Mizuho Financial Group Our Goals Message from the Group CFO Disposal of Cross-shareholdings Mizuho will work to build a stable capital base to a level that is Regarding cross-shareholdings, we assess the meaning of holding comparable with competing financial groups. based on criteria such as profitability, and unless we consider these As for the policy to return profits to shareholders, we have holdings to be meaningful, we will not hold the shares of other implemented a steady dividend payout policy setting a dividend payout companies as cross–shareholdings. In order to maintain a stable ratio on a consolidated basis of approximately 30% as a guide for our financial base, it is essential that we reduce share price fluctuation risk consideration. Based on this policy, we have decided to make cash to an appropriate level as it has a significant impact on our financial dividend payments of JPY7.50 for fiscal 2016. Going forward, we situation. For the period from March 31, 2015 until March 31, 2019 continuously aim to realize steady returns to shareholders. (the end of the current medium-term business plan), our target is a reduction of JPY550 billion in the book value of cross-shareholdings. ■ Steady Return to Shareholders We have made steady progress towards this goal as of March 2017. ■ ■Cash Dividend per Share of Common Stock (JPY) 352 Dividend payout ratio (%) ■ Progress Towards Cross-shareholdings Disposal Targets 1 30 31 28 (JPY billions) 26 23 Reduction amount Reduction target as of March 2017 by March 2017 7.5 7.5 7.5 7.5 6.0 6.5 JPY275.3 billion JPY250 billion 1,962.9 Reduction target 1,847.1 1,687.5 by March 2019 JPY550 billion FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 estimates 2. Assuming Profit Attributable to Owners of Parent for FY2017 of JPY550.0 billion Dialogue with Shareholders and Investors Mizuho places its highest management priorities on continuing to March 2015 March 2016 March 2017 March 2019 disclose information to our shareholders and investors in a fair, timely, 1. Shares listed on the Japanese stock markets, acquisition cost basis and appropriate manner, in order for them to form relevant judgments and appraisals of the group. Financial Management to For individual investors, in addition to information posted on our Support Sustainable Growth dedicated webpage for individual investors, in October 2016 we held an online informational session with the CFO specifically for individual Capital Adequacy and Return to Shareholders investors. A stable capital base is essential to ensuring Mizuho’s sustainable For analysts and institutional investors, following periodic growth and our ability to meet the expectations of stakeholders by announcements of financial results, Mizuho holds online conferences maintaining our financial soundness and fulfilling our role as a financial and IR meetings where members of management give presentations intermediary even during times of economic downturn. At the same on management strategy, financial position, and other topics. time, we understand the importance of our obligation to provide Additionally, we have hosted informational sessions on our business returns to our shareholders and investors. Therefore, Mizuho continues strategies regarding individual business areas and have participated in to carry out a disciplined capital management policy which maintains conferences for investors held by securities companies. the optimal balance between strengthening our capital base and Through these events and other opportunities, we hope to providing steady returns to shareholders. increase dialogue with our shareholders and investors and utilize To strengthen Mizuho’s capabilities for coping with changes in the their feedback to improve our corporate management and enhance business environment, including trends in global financial regulations, accountability with the goal of increasing Mizuho’s corporate value. 2017 Integrated Report 20 Our Goals Value Creation Process Mizuho’s Corporate Philosophy includes “bringing fruitfulness for each customer and the economies and the societies in which we operate. Mizuho creates lasting value. It is what makes us invaluable.” To implement this Corporate Philosophy, Mizuho is drawing on its strengths, and taking into consideration the growing sophistication of customer needs and the changes occurring in the business and social environment. It is also structuring a new business model, the financial services consulting group, by taking the One MIZUHO Strategy to the next stage. Specifically, based on the foundations of the “Customer First” Mizuho’s Corporate Identity Mediumand Long-term CSR Initiative Policy Business Environment What Mizuho Aims to Become in the Medium Term Economy • Persistence of negative interest rates A Financial Services Consulting Group • Concerns about US interest rate hike Fully Implement the Customer First • Expansion of geopolitical risk Principle (Customer-Focused) Pursue Operational Excellence • Rise of anti-globalism sentiment Regulations and Competition One MIZUHO Strategy • Strengthening of international  Provide services for each customer segment on a group-wide basis financial regulations under the in-house company system • Revision of Banking Act Five companies Two units • Advancement of technology Retail & Business Banking Company Global Products Research & Issues for Customers Corporate & Institutional Company and Society Global Corporate Company Unit Consulting Unit Customers Global Markets Company • Steady mediumto long-term asset building for individuals Asset Management Company • Advancing age of corporate executives • Rapid changes in business Advanced Governance System environment Society Corporate Governance Risk Governance • Depopulation, declining birthrates, P65-74 P75-76 and an aging populace • Globalization Mizuho’s Strengths Mizuho by the Numbers P9-10 • Intensification of climate change • Industrial development centered in Human and intellectual capital Social and relationship capital emerging countries Strong workforce Broad customer base Business Strategies No.  1 in industrial expertise among Extensive  global network and other  Japanese banks channels by Company/Unit Sophisticated product capabilities P35-62 21 Mizuho Financial Group Our Goals Value Creation Process principle and “operational excellence” and through the full use of its sophisticated risk-taking capability and financial intermediary functions, Mizuho will thoroughly align itself with its customers’ needs, be their best financial solutions partner, and shape the future of economies and societies. Through using these initiatives to gain competitive advantage and to increase its corporate value by securing sustainable and stable profits, Mizuho will fulfill even greater social missions than ever before. Realize increased corporate value and fulfill even greater social mission Unchanging value as a financial institution Address customer issues and contribute to sustainable growth The most trusted partner in solving problems and supporting the sustainable Build the future of economies growth of customers and communities and societies Risk-taking capabilities Supporting industrial development to Vitalizing local economies solve global issues Fully deploy our consulting capabilities Financial intermediary Activating financial assets in Japan Supporting business/asset succession functions by fulfilling our fiduciary duties and innovative companies Financial capital Stable funding structure Sound loan assets Strong capital base Creating and innovating businesses Promoting responsible investment using new technology and financing Our Strategies for Creating Value P23-64 Share issues aimed at further growth 2017 Integrated Report 22 Our Strategies for Creating Value Progress of the Medium-term Business Plan In fiscal 2016, Mizuho began to implement its three-year mediumEssence of New Medium-term Business Plan Based on Our RAF term business plan, entitled Progressive Development of “One MIZUHO”—The Path to a Financial Services Consulting Group. Risk appetite Under the new medium-term business plan, Mizuho will perfect the One MIZUHO Strategy by creating a new business model as a Medium-term risk appetite policy financial services consulting group. The two foundations for this effort (FY2016-2018) will be the full implementation of the “Customer First” principle promoted in the previous medium-term business plan and the pursuit ‌ Highly value the “customer first” principle and asset quality to of “operational excellence.” Mizuho has also defined 5 basic polices establish sustainable and stable based on medium-term risk appetite policy and business portfolio Business profit base through selection analysis and 10 basic strategies as specific representations of those 5 and concentration of risk-taking Business portfolio analysis strategies areas policies with regards to business strategy, financial strategy, and ‌Expand and strengthen nonmanagement foundations. interest business to improve the risk-return structure In the plan’s first year (fiscal 2016), the group united in taking action based on the management policy of “strengthening our Seek ‌ to attain a sufficient CET1 foundation for establishing a sustainable competitive advantage.” ratio to guard against any stress resulting from external Financial environment change strategies ‌Strengthen non-yen currency funding structure and balance Mizuho’s Risk Appetite Framework (RAF) P75-76 sheet control Mizuho has positioned the RAF as the management control ‌Cross-shareholding disposal framework to support optimization of orderly risk-taking and riskreturn. Specifically, we will further concretely define our risk appetite* Areas to focus on E ‌ stablishing governance measures in establishing our medium-term and fiscal year business plans. The for each customer segment by risk appetite will be the basis for establishing our business strategy, resource allocation, and budget, thus integrating risk management, Management improving the management of foundations the RAF Areas to streamline business strategy, and profits in order to maximize our risk-return. ‌Develop and establish risk *Risk appetite consists of a risk appetite policy that serves as the fundamental policy regarding our risk-taking activities and risk appetite metrics that serve as culture means of quantifying the level of risk-taking based on the risk appetite policy. Fully Implementing the “Customer First” Principle -Introduction of the In-house Company SystemThe needs of customers and society are becoming increasingly units to enhance expertise and promote utilization across all the insophisticated with the rapid changes taking place in the global house companies. economic and social environment. In order to satisfy these needs, In fiscal 2016, the first year for the in-house company system, Mizuho must provide optimum solutions by fully implementing our we were able to move forward steadily with putting in place “Customer First” principle, and by fully deploying the consulting infrastructure and various types of frameworks. As a result, we have capabilities of the group’s asset management and research & achieved our initial objectives with positive benefits such as strategy consulting functions, in addition to the banking, trust banking, and execution based on customer attributes, speeding up of decision securities functions. making by delegating authority to company heads, and strengthening To thoroughly strengthen our “Customer First” principle approach of measures to increase each in-house company’s profitability. and to realize our goal of becoming a financial services consulting Starting in fiscal 2017, we are addressing higher-level themes group, we have introduced a new in-house company system. such as optimizing personnel allocation/collaboration between Specifically, Mizuho has established five in-house companies that in-house companies and further reforming our cost/personnel formulate and implement group-wide strategies across banking, trust structure. As our in-house company system operations increase in banking, securities entities, etc. for each customer segment. Product sophistication, we will be even better able to satisfy customer needs. and research functions have been reorganized into two independent 23 Mizuho Financial Group Our Strategies for Creating Value Progress of the Medium-term Business Plan Essence of the medium-term business plan Mizuho’s Financial services consulting group objectives −The most trusted partner in solving problems and supporting the sustainable growth of customers and communities− Fully implement the “Customer First” principle Pursue operational excellence (Customer-Focused) 5 basic Introduction of the Selecting and Establishment Proactive involvement in Embedding a corporate culture that in-house company focusing of of a resilient encourages the active participation of our policies system business areas financial base financial innovation workforce to support a stronger Mizuho 1 Strengthening our model for non-interest income business on a global basis 2 Responding to the shift from savings to investment  P51-54 Business 3 Strengthening our research and consulting functions  P59-62 strategies 4 Responding to Fintech  P27-28 5 Promoting the Area One MIZUHO strategy  P35-38 10 Basic strategies Financial 6 Controlling the balance sheet strategically and reforming the cost structure  P17-20 strategies 7 Disposing of cross-shareholdings  P17-20 8 Completing implementation of the next-generation IT system  P83-84 Management 9 Fundamental reforms of HR management  P85-88 foundations 10 Continued initiatives towards embedding a corporate culture to support a strong organization  P85-88 Measures to Increase Sophistication of In-house Company System Operations FY2017FY 2016 Increased sophistication for in-house company system operations Introduction of in-house company system Measures for higher-level themes Future issues Objectives Benefits ‌Consistency of Optimization of personnel allocation/ Strategy execution based on strategy collaboration between companies customer attributes ‌Speed up decision-making Speeded up decision making by Further reform of cost/personnel processes Previous medium-term and enhance authority delegation to company heads structure group’s frontline business plan period capabilities Strengthened measures to increase Unit system ‌Clear responsibility for profits profitability of each in-house company Building of a foundation for unified group Completed the system design for achieving initial objectives operations 2017 Integrated Report 24 Our Strategies for Creating Value Progress of the Medium-term Business Plan Pursuing Operational Excellence In order to bring a sustainable competitive advantage to Mizuho, we In fiscal 2016, Mizuho made steady progress on problemare pursuing operational excellence by improving operations that solving-type measures aimed at streamlining Head Office functions provide the driving force for our strategies together with our “Customer and revising products and services. We also moved forward with First” principle strategy. structural-reform-type measures such as consolidation of group To accomplish this, we will thoroughly review our existing common operations and innovation of business processes using business processes, revise our channel strategy for branch and digital technology. Along with these, steady change was also seen in online/smartphone services, consolidate common operations, and each individual employee’s mind-set with respect to everyday work. incorporate technology innovation (Fintech, etc.) and new ideas. Going forward, we will further accelerate employee mind-set With such initiatives, we aim to improve operational efficiency and to reforms, while also moving to execute particularly structural-reformenhance service value for customers by raising the sophistication of type measures. our operations. Measures for Achieving Operational Excellence Channel strategy Standardization and systematization AI×big data ProblemImprove All branches provide customer Create new solving-type banking, trust banking, Speed up + service business and securities services Structuralreform-type Maximize operational excellence effects via structural‌Revise channel strategy reform-type measures ‌Consolidate common operations ‌Utilize technology FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 Pursue a sustainable Strengthen Expense reduction JPY 12 (results) billion JPY 35 billion JPY 70 billion competitive advantage through further structural cost effect All problem-solving-type Problem-solving-type Problem-solving-type reforms (compared to JPY15 billion JPY30 billion competitiveness FY2015) Structural-reform-type Structural-reform-type JPY20 billion JPY40 billion No. of measures Approx. 200 (results) Approx. 300 Foster an employee mind-set and embed a corporate culture Mind-set reforms Utilize know-how and best Stimulate measures led by Eliminate inward-facing energy practices within group frontline offices 25 Mizuho Financial Group Our Strategies for Creating Value Progress of the Medium-term Business Plan Selecting and Focusing of Business Areas In order to optimally allocate limited management resources and achieve sustainable growth, in fiscal 2016 we clarified focus areas and areas to streamline by analyzing our business as a whole based on market attractiveness and Mizuho’s competitive advantages. Going forward, we will move to steadily shift management resources from the areas to streamline to the focus areas. This should lead to increased profitability. Selecting and Focusing of Business Areas Business portfolio analysis Management resource rebalancing High Areas for streamlining and selection Focus areas Focus areas Strengthening of nonCreation of new business Attractiveness ‌ ross-shareholdings C interest business via group collaboration using technology ‌Low-profitability lending Areas for of market L ‌ ow-profitability ‌ &A/DCM2/ECM3 M ‌Fintech streamlining and selection transactions ‌Face-to-face consulting ‌IT digitalization ‌Global 300 Low Competitive advantage High Up to FY2017 (plan) Up to fiscal 2017 (plan) RWA 1 Approx. -JPY2.3 trillion RWA Approx. JPY3.9 trillion Quantitative assessment Qualitative assessment Headcount Approx. -1,000 Headcount Approx. 1,340 Profitability Volatility Regulatory impact FY2016 RWA Approx. -JPY0.8 trillion FY2016 RWA Approx. JPY1.7 trillion Capital efficiency In-house company collaboration Technology Results Headcount Approx. -430 Results Headcount Approx. 590 1. Risk asset 2. Bond underwriting 3. Equity underwriting Embedding a Corporate Culture that Encourages the Active Participation of Our Workforce P85-88 In order to create a sustainable competitive advantage by strengthening the workforce that supports Mizuho, in fiscal 2016 we moved forward with a variety of measures for the establishment and spread of the fundamental reform of HR management to promote active participation of all employees. We also promoted measures for the establishment of a strong corporate culture that encourages all employees to take initiative. We will continue to implement and strengthen measures such as these. Embedding a Corporate Culture that Encourages the Active Participation of Our Workforce Fundamental reform of HR management to Efforts to establish a strong culture promote active participation of all employees Corporate governance 1 HR management that respects employees’ individuality 1 Encouraging all employees to put the ‌Development-focused HR management Mizuho Values* into practice aimed at enhancing employees’ strengths ‌Penetration of the Corporate Philosophy; making ‌Multi-track HR management that responds Integrated threethe Vision of Individual Offices a core component to the career goals of a diverse workforce part initiative ‌Continuing General Managers’ Off-site Meetings ‌Promoting the health and wellbeing of employees ‌Utilizing training programs and maintaining a healthy work environment HR Culture 2 Further promoting internal communication 2 Strategic employee rotation management ‌Creating a sense of unity and improving loyalty ‌Vitalizing measures for mutual 3 Development of future executive leaders communication between employees ‌Sharing examples of practicing Mizuho Values at a higher level 4 Globalization of Mizuho’s talent and HR management * ‌The values and principles shared by all of Mizuho’s Take the practice of the ideals and values of internal stakeholders to pursue the Vision: Customer First, 5 Promotion of diversity and inclusion the One MIZUHO concept to the next level Innovative Spirit, Team Spirit, Speed, and Passion 2017 Integrated Report 26 Our Strategies for Creating Value Progress of the Medium-term Business Plan Proactive involvement in financial innovation Through making use of cutting-edge technology and collaborating with external organizations, Mizuho is endeavoring to provide highly convenient services for its customers more so than before Approach to Financial Innovation innovative creation, advanced technology, and assessment of future business potential. In today’s business environment, by collaborating ■ Financial Environment with large vendors that have these strengths and Fintech companies, In recent years, a worldwide trend toward offering innovative financial Mizuho is looking to create new businesses and provide highly services has emerged, and it has been referred to as “Fintech.” Fintech convenient services for our customers more so than before, as to includes such technologies as big data, artificial intelligence (AI), establish an advanced brand image as a financial institution. and blockchain, and it is looked to as the harbinger of new financial services. Along with this trend, in Japan also, the Banking Act has been revised to enable financial institutions to collaborate with venture Promotion Structure businesses that are expected to develop new financial services to promote open innovation. In this connection, the so-called “5% rule,” To attain these goals, Mizuho established its Incubation Project Team, which, under the Banking Act, limited voting ownership in other an independent and specialized team in July 2015 to strengthen companies by financial institutions to 5% has been relaxed for enabling new business creation and initiatives across the group. In addition, investment into finance-related IT companies (Fintech companies). beginning in April 2017, to reinforce the creation of new businesses and realize greater efficiency and sophistication in existing businesses, ■ Directions for Mizuho’s Initiatives we established the position of CDIO*, who is in charge with the Mizuho, as a megabank, has built up, on the one hand, a customer mission of driving digital innovation. Accompanying the appointment base and an information base, while also developing strengths in of a CDIO, we also realigned our Incubation Project Team to form the the form of financial knowledge and technology. On the other hand, Digital Innovation Department to enhance the structures for promoting Mizuho’s business position has not always been strong in terms of digital innovation. * Chief Digital Innovation Officer 27 Mizuho Financial Group Our Strategies for Creating Value Progress of the Medium-term Business Plan Fiscal 2016 Results Verification of Services Utilizing Blockchain Technology Mizuho is promoting the use of blockchain technology for financial In fiscal 2016 also, Mizuho continued to actively services by working toward the start-up of the first verification project led pursue collaborative businesses with other companies by Japanese companies that will make use of this technology for global international remittances and international securities settlement services. to provide new services through open innovation. New Payments Services In October 2016, Mizuho began collaboration with Metaps and WiL, with Big Data and AI-based Fintech Lending Services the aim of joint business development. The goals of this collaboration is In November 2016, Mizuho and Softbank set up a joint company, named to utilize the customer bases and knowledge on financial services of the J.Score, to provide big data and AI-based Fintech personal lending MHFG and MHBK to create and offer new financial settlement services. services, and this company has already begun activities to build its brand image. Beginning in September 2017, it is scheduled to provide the Digital first score-based lending services via smartphones Payment wallet app in Japan, and it will continue to gradually raise the Shop Payment via QR or bar code Bank account level of its services. Transfers ¥ Loading money Establishment of Fintech Transfers using Loading money from bank Laboratory Facilities electronic money accounts (conversion to In October 2016, the first laboratory Cash withdrawal Electronic electronic money) facilities1 were established for money Cash withdrawal structuring a Fintech Ecosystem2 and Bank using electronic to improve customer services. With the money establishment of this facility, it will be possible to combine the technologies and knowledge of the Fintech Offering Services Using Robotics companies with Mizuho’s knowledge of financial services to facilitate Mizuho has installed humanoid robots programmed with AI in its open innovation and provide speedy technical verifications. branches to provide functions that include analyzing customers’ insurance coverage and providing support for opening customer 1. ‌‌Innovation lab set up within the FinTech Center of Tokyo Finolab, which is jointly accounts. In addition, to provide completely new services that have not operated by Mitsubishi Estate, Dentsu, and Information Services International–Dentsu. 2. ‌An industrial ecosystem created through the multi–faceted, continuous, interrelated existed before, Mizuho is giving consideration to using the knowledge connections between Fintech companies, financial institutions, businesses, and know-how that it has accumulated from these initiatives in other investors, regulatory authorities, and specialists such as lawyers and accountants. channels other than robots, including mobile devices and ATMs. Our Measures Going Forward Create Next-generation Business Model through Enhanced Business Promotion Structure Since establishing its Incubation Project Team, Mizuho has Pursue actual conducted surveys and research, principally in key component Open innovation Global expansion business technologies such as big data, AI, and blockchain from Collaborate flexibly with Create added value Co-creation and information the mediumto long-term perspective, and accumulated other industries, etc. at an early stage gathering on a global basis knowledge and know-how. Beginning in fiscal 2017, Mizuho has gone beyond just accumulating this technology and knowhow and is endeavoring to provide customers with even better services through creating new businesses as well as improving Department newly CEO CDIO Digital Innovation Department the efficiency and sophistication of existing businesses. established under New Reorganization Specifically, since 2016, Mizuho has been taking initiatives the direct control Director specializing Head count: to release new services, such as new lending schemes of Group CEO in Fintech approx. 30 and settlement methods as well as gone to commercialize blockchain technology for use in the trade finance field. Secondment / Moreover, Mizuho’s activities in this field have not been Dual appointment limited to finance, but also have included the establishment of Idea new companies with WiL and other new venture investment New Investment Establish an IOT Commercialize companies based in Silicon Valley. After having established platform incubator company these new companies, Mizuho will be also engaged in creating Third-party (MHFG non-consolidated) Monetize next-generation business models and actual commercialization shareholders of related businesses through the broad use of IoT. 2017 Integrated Report 28 Our Strategies for Creating Value For the Sustainable Development of Society and Mizuho Increasing Our Corporate Value and Contributing to the Sustainable Development of Society In order for Mizuho to increase our corporate value and fulfill our public mission, in addition to strengthening our financial base, it is indispensable for us to maintain and strengthen our management foundation, which includes our brand and our relationships of trust with our own employees, our customers, and local communities. We position corporate social responsibility (CSR) as a pillar of corporate conduct as we manage our business in consideration of a variety of stakeholders, with whom we create shared values. In addition, we strive to ensure that each of our staff carries out his/her dayto-day work with an awareness of our social responsibilities and public mission. In order to promote CSR initiatives as a unified group, Mizuho has defined Mediumand Long-term CSR Initiative Policy. It specifies the direction to be taken as (1) strengthen efforts to promote businesses that contribute to the sustainable development of society, (2) reinforce the group’s foundations that underpin activities in line with society’s expectations, and (3) promote social contribution activities that take into consideration the needs of local regions and society. We have also defined eight priority initiatives based on Mizuho’s strategy and changes in the external environment. With regard to environmental, social, and governance (ESG) issues, we are making strategic efforts as part of our CSR initiatives. For more details on the initiatives, please access MHFG’s website. https://www.mizuho-fg.com/csr/ ESG Evaluation Mizuho considers ESG evaluations to be part of investor expectations, and we are utilizing the evaluations to improve our CSR activities. The ESG initiatives that have been carried out by Mizuho thus far have received high evaluations, and Mizuho has been included in a number of global social responsibility investment indices. Social Responsibility Indices which include Mizuho (as of June 2017) 29 Mizuho Financial Group Our Strategies for Creating Value For the Sustainable Development of Society and Mizuho Mediumand Long-term CSR Initiative Policy and Eight Priority Initiatives Mediumand Long-Term CSR Initiative Policy Eight Priority Initiatives (FY2016-2018) Strengthen efforts to ‌Promote initiatives that take into Core business promote businesses consideration structural changes in the economy and society that contribute to the sustainable ‌Promote initiatives for development of responsible investment and society financing Changing external environment UN Sustainable Development Goals ‌Strengthen management foundations (SDGs), etc. on a group and global basis Reinforce the Foundations for Our Foundations ‌Promote diverse talent management and Corporate Value group’s foundations strategic human resource development that underpin P65-90 activities in line ‌Promote initiatives for management of customer with society’s protection and financial crime prevention expectations ‌Promote initiatives for reducing environmental ‌https://www.mizuho-fg.com/csr/ environment/ burden from our own business Mizuho’s strategies Social contributions Promote social ‌Promote ongoing financial contribution education initiatives activities that take into consideration ‌Promote activities that take into the needs of local consideration the needs of local regions and society regions and society 2017 Integrated Report 30 Our Strategies for Creating Value For the Sustainable Development of Society and Mizuho Strengthen Efforts to Promote Businesses that Contribute to the Sustainable Development of Society A variety of structural changes are proceeding rapidly in the social and economic environment, including depopulation, declining birthrates and aging populace, technology innovation, globalization, and climate change. Mizuho is aware of the need to address them from mediumto long-term risk and opportunity perspectives. We intend to actively contribute to the solution of social issues through our business, and carry on responsible business activities that take both human rights and environmental issues in consideration. Mizuho aims to become a financial services consulting group−the most trusted partner in solving problems and supporting the sustainable growth of customers and communities. We are working to contribute to the sound development of our customers as well as the economy and society by anticipating customer needs and economic/social changes from a progressive and forward thinking approach and by finding solutions for the problems that arise. Main initiatives Core business Supporting industrial development to solve global issues Activating financial assets in Japan 1 such as environment/energy, infrastructure, health, food, etc. 5 See also P54 Fulfill fiduciary duties in development, management, sales, and Supply risk money and provide advisory services, research, administration of financial products with the goal of achieving consulting, and policy recommendations in collaboration with capital flows that will enable economic growth and the steady asset various institutions around the world building of households Vitalizing local economies Creating and innovating businesses 2 See also P38, 42 Provide management and financial support to local companies 6 using new technology See also P28 Support local efforts to vitalize economy and recover from disasters, Streamline business process and improve/expand services through in collaboration with local governments and financial institutions leading-edge technology and open innovation Business and asset succession Initiatives for responsible investment and financing 3 See also P58 Provide solutions tailored to the issues facing each customer 7 Manage environmental and social risk by applying the Equator Principles to project financing Supporting innovative companies 4 See also P38, 58 Supply risk money through financing and investment targeting Fulfill stewardship responsibilities for maximizing customer’s mediumto long-term investment returns and the sustainable innovative companies important to Japan’s future, develop business growth of investee companies through business matching, and help solve issues confronted by management of companies through seminars and mentoring Promote Social Contribution Activities to Meet Needs of Local Regions and Society Social contributions Local communities are the foundation for Mizuho’s continued existence, and they have a deep connection to Mizuho through our corporate activities and the actions of each employee. Mizuho addresses the needs of local communities and society in its activities. In doing so, we believe we can fulfill our role as a corporate citizen and contribute to the community we are part of as we engage in our business activities. We believe that these activities also contribute to strengthening relationships of trust with customers and local communities and to increasing the growth and social awareness of our employees. Financial education is a good example of how we can give back to the society the knowledge and know-how that we have accumulated as a financial institution. In response to society’s need for career education and greater financial literacy, we have defined targets for the provision of financial education, which we are promoting globally. 31 Mizuho Financial Group Our Strategies for Creating Value For the Sustainable Development of Society and Mizuho Close Up 1 Supporting Industrial Development to Solve Global Issues Promotion of Environmental Finance Developing Alliances with African institutions See also P62 Mizuho promotes the development and providing of financial products MHBK participated in the Sixth Tokyo International Conference and services that encourage environmental awareness in order to on African Development (TICAD VI) and signed agreements achieve sustainable energy supplies and to respond to climate change for business cooperation with African development banks and issues. investment promotion agencies of Kenya and Zambia. These agreements cover a range of sectors including agriculture, Environment-related Funding Provided by MHBK (JPY billions) infrastructure, and energy and ■ Environment-related project finance ■ Financing with consideration to the environment ■ Other 709.5 697.0 are also intended to deal with 667.1 43.1 39.9 35.1 poverty. Mizuho will continue to 104.4 74.2 57.8 support business development in 595.4 604.1 Africa and contribute to Africa’s 519.6 development. FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 Close Up 7 Responsible Investment and Financing Environmental and Social Risk Management with Respect to Project Financing Strengthening Framework for Promoting Responsible Investing MHBK recognizes that large-scale development projects may have MHTB and Asset Management One are taking initiatives aimed adverse impacts on the environment and local communities. To minimize at promoting ESG investment and the fulfillment of stewardship and/or mitigate the environmental and social risks associated with such large-scale developments, MHBK, in collaboration with project proponents responsibilities. Integrated in October 2016 as the group’s who are our customers, conducts appropriate environmental and social investment arm, Asset Management One has established the risks assessment/due diligence as required under the Equator Principles1. Responsible Investment Department and has been working Closed Transactions Screened for Equator Principles Compliance 2 on engagement, such as purposeful dialogue with investee (No. of projects) companies regarding ESG, and on proxy voting. In addition, ■ Europe/ Middle East/ Africa ■ Asia & Oceania ■ Americas to develop capabilities for purposeful dialogue to help improve 67 sustainable corporate value, it has expanded ESG analysts in 9 47 48 1. A financial industry benchmark charge of engagement in global passive investment, and has 30 8 7 for determining, assessing, and begun engagement with overseas companies in partnership with 17 managing environmental and 29 social risk in projects. Hermes EOS, one of the largest engagement service companies 28 22 2. The figures have been assured with a proficient engagement process. 12 by a third party. FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 Number of People Receiving Financial Education Targets FY2016 12,859 FY2016-2018: over 20,000 Accumulative total (FY2006-2016): Approx. 62,000 Student Work Experience School Visits by Employees (India) 2017 Integrated Report 32 Our Strategies for Creating Value Mizuho in Fiscal 2016 Strategy May 2016 May 2016 Announced new medium-term business plan: Established an advisory committee and the Fintech Progressive Development of “One MIZUHO” Council made up of experts in various fields with the – The Path to a Financial Services Consulting aim of generating new finance business based on Group. speedy and discontinuous ideas. July 2016 With consideration of the Federal Reserve Board’s rule regarding the operations of foreign banking organizations with US operations, established a US bank holding company— Mizuho Americas — and brought its primary US-based entities together under the holding company. October 2016 November 2016 Integrated the group’s asset management functions into a new Set up a joint company J.Score with Softbank to company, Asset Management One with the aim of achieving provide big data and AI-based Fintech personal lending significant development as a global asset management company. services. November 2016 Facing a significant change in the external environment, hosted the Mizuho Global Council meeting to make the best use of recommendations and proposals from various outside experts in its business and to exchange opinions with the world’s prominent business leaders. January 2017 January-April 2017 For the purpose of thorough implementation of customerContinued to expand the office network, as follows: oriented operation of asset management-related business, January: Changed the trade name of Mizuho Bank Nederland to established the Fiduciary Duty Advisory Committee and Mizuho Bank Europe Fiduciary Duty Promotion Offices. Upgraded the Madrid Representative Office to the Madrid Branch March: Opened Mizuho Bank Mexico April: Opened the Phnom Penh Branch in Cambodia March 2017 With the goals of spurring further growth in the Japanese securities settlement market and contributing to the enhancement of Japan’s investment chain, signed a memorandum of understanding for the integration of trust banks specializing in asset administration services. June 2017 MHBK, MHTB, and MHSC have each changed to a Company with Audit and Supervisory Committee in order to further enhance their respective governance systems. 33 Mizuho Financial Group Our Strategies for Creating Value Mizuho in Fiscal 2016 External Evaluation “Customer First” Principle September 2016 Received a special award “Kizuna” in Service & Hospitality Award from the Japan Institute of Information Technology. We have been highly appraised for the endeavors of frontline offices and corporate headquarters to work in unison to become the best financial services provider. Financial Innovation October 2016 March 2017 Recognized for providing innovative services and creating a new Recognized for successful business use of the results of the analysis customer experience through introduction of the humanoid robot of huge volumes of data, became the first financial institution to Pepper, received the highest award for channel innovation from receive the Analytics Award, one of the Data Management Awards the Bank Administration Institute (BAI), a US-based banking and presented by the Japan Data Management Consortium. financial industry group that promotes financial innovation. May 2017 April 2017 Recognized for its overall active efforts to strengthen competitiveness and Recognized for creating a unique customer experience with create new value with technological innovation, selected as a Competitive the humanoid robot Pepper and the LINE account balance IT Strategy Company Stock for two consecutive years by the Ministry of checking service, received the Celent Model Bank 2017 Economy, Trade and Industry and the Tokyo Stock Exchange. highest award for consumer banking channel innovation. Encouraging Active Participation of Our Workforce January 2017 February 2017 Chosen for the 2017 Bloomberg Financial Services Gender– Recognized as a company that approaches employee health and Equality Index, which includes financial institutions from 17 wellbeing from a management perspective by putting into practice countries. Members are selected for their active efforts to strategic workforce health management under the 2017 Certified Health build workplace environments of gender equality, for their & Productivity Management Organization Recognition Program (Large information disclosure, and achievements/policies, etc. Enterprise Category), which was established by the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry and Nippon March 2017 Kenko Kaigi. Recognized as being actively engaged in promoting the participation of our female employees, and received Semi-Nadeshiko Brand designation, conferred jointly by Japan’s Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry and the Tokyo Stock Exchange. Disclosures February 2017 Mizuho’s 2016 Integrated Report received an Award for Excellence in Nikkei Annual Report Awards 2016 for incorporating a corporate governance perspective. 2017 Integrated Report 34 Our Strategies for Creating Value Retail & Business Banking Company Individual Customers SMEs Middle-market Corporations We are committed to becoming trust banking, and securities relationship with our customers, Mediumto Long-term Company Strategy While net interest income, which used to be the main source of revenue, is decreasing in the context of prolonged low interest rates, we are seeing changes in the business environment, such as a series of digital innovation and the entry of non-financial enterprises, such as Fintech ventures, in the market hitherto dominated by financial institutions. A transformation from the traditional business model is urgent. Under such circumstances, the Retail & Business Banking Company is aiming to establish a new retail business model by making the maximum use of the competitive advantage in integrated banking, trust banking, and securities functions to serve the diverse needs of households, SMEs, and middle-market corporations. We are also using advanced technologies and external collaborations in improving the user-friendliness of our services. Specifically, we will reallocate staff in key sectors across the group, further ramp up our personnel training, and work to improve the quality and productivity of our services so that we can restructure Head of Retail & Business Banking Company Toshitsugu Okabe 1. Current Environment Economy, Regulations, and Competition Strengths • Increasing uncertainty in the global economy • An established customer-focused consulting structure • Negative interest rate policies continue with integrated banking, trust banking, and securities External Environment • Increasing convergence of strategies of our competitors functions Internal Conditions • Entry of non-financial enterprises such as Fintech ventures • Reallocated human resources to key sectors (trust Customers banking and securities), trained people who can work • Recovery expected of the asset management business across banking, trust banking, and securities entities • SMEs and middle-market corporations looking for • Customer base and channel network successors outside the founders’ family as they reach old Staffed locations: 797 (as of June 30, 2017) age without successors Challenges Society • Deteriorating net interest income due to the continuing • Financial assets held by households exceed JPY1,800 negative interest rate policies trillion • High expense ratio • Japan’s demographic changes 35 Mizuho Financial Group Our Strategies for Creating Value Retail & Business Banking Company a financial services consulting company that combines banking, services by developing our consulting business with close and by maintaining customer-focused business operations. business around non-interest income. We will also work to expand For SMEs and middle-market corporations, we will strengthen our customer base and maximize profits by developing convenient, our initiatives for consulting-based support on such matters as growth non-face-to-face services using Fintech. Furthermore, Mizuho is strategies, business succession, and IPO. By doing this, we can, as aiming to be a company that grows along with regional communities an integrated group, provide both corporations and their owners with and economies. We will contribute to the revitalization of regional optimal solutions that resolve latent issues. communities and economies through the Area One MIZUHO In the medium-to-long term, we will fundamentally transform our Promotion Project, with our banking, trust banking, and securities business through operational excellence, for example, by optimizing entities in each area working as a team to address local issues. work procedures through the use of AI and robotics. We will also For individual customers, we will maintain customer-focused rethink our branch strategy in each region, such as increasing the business operations, fulfilling our social responsibility by number of joint branches that can provide banking, trust banking, and encouraging a shift from savings to investments/asset building. We securities services, while also utilizing digital channels. Such initiatives will expand our product lineup and work to improve our customers’ will both cut costs and improve customer convenience. financial literacy. We will also move forward with initiatives to improve the convenience of non-face-to-face services for our customers for example by making our online and smartphone services more sophisticated. 2. Value Creation Value for Customers Value for Society • Serving a wide range of customer needs with financial • Facilitate the flow of funds to enable the sustainable growth of services consulting that integrates our banking, trust banking, household financial assets and the Japanese economy and securities functions • Support the growth strategies of SMEs and middle-market • High-quality customer-focused services that maintain a high corporations level of expertise and professional ethics • Adopt an integrated approach that combines our banking, • New value in services such as remittances, payments, and trust banking, and securities functions to address regional asset management by utilizing Fintech challenges, and collaborate with local businesses and citizens • Sophisticated business and assets succession solutions for SMEs and middle-market corporations confronting such issues as aging top executives and insufficient human resources 2017 Integrated Report 36 Our Strategies for Creating Value Retail & Business Banking Company Fiscal 2016 Results and Plans for Fiscal 2017 and Beyond The effects of negative interest rate policies meant that decreases in profits by making face-to-face services more sophisticated and loan deposit income and an unstable market environment continued further reinforcing digital contents in non-face-to-face channels. in fiscal 2016. Although the Retail & Business Banking Company was For individual customers, we will enhance customer-focused unable to attain our Net Business Profits target, we did achieve some consulting services so that we can meet their needs regarding the successes, such as the expansion of our customer base through shift from savings to investments/asset building and asset succession. integrated banking, trust banking, and securities initiatives. For their long-term asset building, we will further promote iDeCo1 and We continued our efforts to establish a face-to-face consulting NISA2 transactions by giving more focus on financial education for system by reallocating marketing personnel across the group, with customers. We will also accelerate our digital innovation initiatives and the aim of encouraging households to shift from savings to make our products more user-friendly as well as develop a business investments/asset building. Partly because of this, 2.53 million model that will boost profitability and expand our profit base. customers used our investment products in fiscal 2016 (an increase Specifically, we will develop business that utilizes big data, for of 30,000 year-on-year) and our assets under management expanded example, by expanding alliances with online service providers such as steadily to JPY37 trillion (a 5% increase year-on-year). We also the one with J.Score featuring a new type of lending services. enhanced user-friendliness, for example, by introducing advanced For our corporate customers, especially among SMEs and technology and the services of outside companies. middle-market corporations, we will upgrade our solutions functions As an approach to challenges such as business expansion and and enhance collaboration with the Research & Consulting Unit in succession for SMEs and middle-market corporations, we provided order to further develop our consulting-based support for their growth consulting-based support for growth strategies and M&A. We also strategies to deal with management issues such as M&A, IPO, and strengthened our support system for innovative companies with business succession. outstanding technologies and ideas. Partly because of this, we had In addition to the aforementioned initiatives, we will promote the largest share of transactions supporting SME and middle-market operational excellence, revise work processes by utilizing digital corporation M&A. Also, for IPO, we supported 16 deals as the lead technology innovations, and take actions to cut costs. manager (a 14% increase year-on-year) and 31 deals as the transfer 1. Individual-type defined contribution pension plan agent (a 63% increase year-on-year). 2. Small-lot, tax exempt investment accounts In fiscal 2017, we will accelerate our integrated banking, trust banking, and securities strategies, as well as thoroughly enforce and further develop our consulting style that maintains close relationships with our customers. We will also establish key strategies based on customer needs, and work to boost user-friendliness and increase 3. Business Plans Risk Appetite Policy Action Plans • Promote initiatives to establish and entrench customer• Implement sophisticated consulting business that will focused business operations contribute to the asset building in the household sector • Proactively invest resources in key sectors aimed at • Provide optimal solutions that support the growth strategies augmenting non-interest income of our SME and middle-market corporation customers • Make efficient use of resources and establish a low-cost • Make our online and smartphone services more userbusiness model by utilizing digital innovations and external friendly by utilizing digital innovations alliances • Boost efficiency and productivity by transforming work processes 37 Mizuho Financial Group Our Strategies for Creating Value Retail & Business Banking Company 2016 HIGHLIGHTS Net Business Profits Results/Plan Balance of Managed Investment Products (left axis) and Users (right axis) (JPY billions) (Group aggregate, management account, rounded figures) (JPY trillions) (million users) 40 3 37 47 35 2.50 2.53 30 2.5 13 0 0 FY2016 FY2017 FY2015 FY2016 results* plan results results * FY2016 results recalculated based on FY2017 management account rules M&A for SMEs and Middle-market Corporations* IPO deals in which Mizuho was the Lead Manager* IPO deals in which Mizuho was the Transfer Agent* (League table ranking) (No. of deals) (No. of deals) 16 No. 1 14 31 19 No. 2 FY2015 FY2016 FY2015 FY2016 FY2015 FY2016 results results results results results results * Any Japanese involvement, excluding real estate deals * Prepared based on data from CAPITAL EYE. Top Left * Prepared based on disclosure materials of each company, Source: Thomson Reuters basis, excluding REIT and global offerings. excluding REIT, ETF and PRO MARKET Solutions that Support Sustainable Growth for Our Customers and Society Area One MIZUHO Promotion Project Local Local communities Mizuho Mizuho is engaged in the Area One MIZUHO Promotion Project, which adopts an Local offices public Local integrated approach that combines our banking, trust banking, and securities entities communities MHBK functions to address regional issues in collaboration with local public entities, financial institutions, businesses, and citizens. Regional financial It aims to strengthen partnerships with local communities so that we can institutions MHTB actively tackle such issues as regional socioeconomic problems due to depopulation Economy Companies and the increasing need for welfare and medical care that accompanies the aging of and MHSC citizens society, and can contribute to the social and economic revitalization of regions. Membership-based Service to Support the Growth of Innovative Companies Innovative Supporters companies Mizuho established M’s Salon in November 2016. This is a membership-based From seeds Collaborating service to support the growth of companies that have the potential to bring about to the Business Companies Development innovation. It offers its members a range of service options that will help to resolve middle stage Mentors management issues typically confronted by growing companies that use outstanding Training Capital technologies and ideas in creating innovative business, and help to accelerate their mentor Venture capital growth. We will contribute to the Japanese economy and social progress through our Group companies support for the innovative companies that will play a leading role in the future. 2017 Integrated Report 38 Our Strategies for Creating Value Corporate & Institutional Company Large Corporations Financial Institutions Public-sector Entities We aim to be our customers’ strengths to provide solutions Mediumto Long-term Company Strategy The outlook of the global economy is very uncertain and factors such as the tightening regulations regarding the balance sheets of financial institutions make our business environment even more uncertain. In addition, with increasing demand for improved corporate governance, our customers’ cross-border and cross-sector needs are becoming increasingly complicated and diverse as globalization and business restructuring across industries pick up speed. The Corporate & Institutional Company’s strengths are the strong relationships we have built with our customers, the sophisticated risk-taking capabilities we have accumulated through developing new financial businesses, and a well-established style of offering comprehensive solutions based on our One MIZUHO Strategy that integrates banking, trust banking, and securities functions. On the other hand, although we do have strengths in the real estate sector, we are still in the process of consolidating our position in trust banking and some areas of our securities business need further strengthening, such as participation in large-scale deals with a focus on cross-border M&As. Head of Corporate & Institutional Company Kosuke Nakamura 1. Current Environment Economy, Regulations, and Competition Strengths • Increasing uncertainty in the global economy, changes in • Ahead of our competitors in the integrated operation of the business environment as a result of negative interest banking, trust banking, and securities functions rate policies External Environment • Sophisticated risk-taking capabilities accumulated Internal Conditions • Stricter regulations regarding the balance sheets of financial institutions through developing new financial businesses • Increasing convergence of strategies of our competitors • Strong relationships with customers among large Customers corporations, financial institutions, and public-sector • Increasing need for capital and growth strategies that pay entities due attention to globalization and interests of • Accelerating our initial plan to reduce cross-shareholdings stakeholders Challenges • Unclear business outlooks as a result of rapid transitions • Streamlining marketing system and work processes in the business environment • Further strengthening our trust banking and securities Society • Increasing public-private-sector collaboration in areas business, such as cross-border M&A such as agriculture and the revitalization of regional • Rebuilding our business portfolio by rebalancing economies resources 39 Mizuho Financial Group Our Strategies for Creating Value Corporate & Institutional Company most trusted and reliable partner by focusing our collective for their diverse and increasingly sophisticated issues and needs. Taking into account the persisting external uncertainties, it is addition to the customer’s individual issues. We must have both a essential that we strengthen our focus areas by rebalancing the microand a macro-approach. At the same time, we need long-term allocation of assets and personnel, and build a robust and profitable initiatives to develop human resources capable of creating new value business portfolio that can withstand future downside risks. chains, as well as the mobility to flexibly allocate resources such as Recognizing this, we will further develop the One MIZUHO assets and personnel in a timely manner so that we do not let Strategy and transform our business model into one that creates a opportunities go to waste. This will be done by making full use of the greater value chain. Instead of simply getting deeply involved in just advantages of the in-house company system, which enables coherent one of our customer’s business issues, the entire group will work strategy planning and prompt decision making. together to address customer’s various management challenges. For Through such initiatives, we will aim to be our customers’ most example, in addition to M&A, we will work as a group to support trusted and reliable global partner and to contribute to the growth of growth, and, at the same time, maximize our business opportunities. global economies. We will continue to support our customers’ Ultimately, we want to be seen as their long-term partner who can sustainable growth with our comprehensive lineup of financial address subsequent issues such as currency hedging, financing, and solutions. post-M&A integration. In order to transform our business model, it is essential that we have an ongoing commitment to enhancing our customer’s corporate value. It is also essential that we have a broad perspective so that we are sensitive to changes in the social and business environments in 2. Value Creation Value for Customers Value for Society • Provide optimal solutions that promptly address customers’ • Provide a stable and steady flow of funds to large diverse issues and needs corporations, financial institutions, and public-sector entities to help boost economies • Continue support in enhancing our customers’ corporate value through the value chain business model • Contribute to the revitalization of the Japanese economy by fostering new industries, reorganizing existing industries, and • Provide risk money based on sophisticated risk-taking revitalizing regional economies capabilities • Facilitate infrastructure development through PPP/PFI (publicprivate-sector) 2017 Integrated Report 40 Our Strategies for Creating Value Corporate & Institutional Company Fiscal 2016 Results and Plans for Fiscal 2017 and Beyond The in-house company system was launched in fiscal 2016 under our presence in this segment as well as the high-profitability securities new business conditions such as negative interest rate policies. In business such as cross-border M&A. spite of the unfavorable business environment, we made a steady In fiscal 2017, our company will promote cross-border M&A progress in responding to stricter regulations regarding the balance business by reinforcing global sector collaborations. This will give sheets and demand for more effective corporate governance, in impetus to the business model transformation that we are aiming for. addition to success in winning mandates for large-scale M&A deals. M&A presents the opportunities for the securities business, as well as As a result, we achieved our Net Business Profits target of JPY240 being the all-important starting points of value chains. This strategy billion. We performed impressively in the league tables, holding onto will be powerfully promoted as our most important theme for fiscal the top slot for two consecutive years for Japan straight bonds and 2017. Specifically, we will work with the Global Corporate Company municipal bonds (underwriting amount) and for M&A (with any and enhance global collaboration of regional sector bankers. The Japanese involvement, number of transactions), and moving into the newly established position of executive officer in charge of specific top slot for M&A (with any Japanese involvement, amount). global corporations in MHBK will take the lead in global marketing. The reduction of cross-shareholding is one of our most important We will rebalance our resource allocation and promote business management issues, and we were approximately JPY25 billion ahead process innovation through group-wide operational excellence. For of schedule in our cumulative reduction targets for fiscal 2015 to example, we aim to fundamentally change our business promotion 2016. We also displayed appropriate risk-taking capabilities utilizing style by upgrading our business infrastructure, incorporating mobile our expertise on industries, and aggressively allocated assets to technologies and constructing a real-time data sharing platform. high-profitability sectors such as hybrid financing. In addition, we By implementing these strategies, we will accelerate initiatives to proactively reallocated human resources from the Head Office to key transform our business model and build a robust business portfolio. business segments that are selected based on growth potential and profitability. We also made efforts to reinforce group-wide business promotion, such as collaborating with the national government or local public entities to introduce PPP/PFI (private-public) and industryacademia collaborations in growth industries. However, we are still in fourth place in the league table for equityrelated business, and we are faced with the challenge of improving 3. Business Plans Risk Appetite Policy Action Plans • Invest resources strategically and flexibly in key sectors • Strengthen cross-border M&A business through global industry sector collaborations • Rebuild our business portfolio through selective risk taking • Accelerate business model transformation by rebalancing • Thoroughly enforce our compliance system that underpins asset portfolio based on growth potential and profitability our strategies and reinforce asset controls • Streamline work procedures and business promotion style by putting operational excellence into practice 41 Mizuho Financial Group Our Strategies for Creating Value Corporate & Institutional Company 2016 HIGHLIGHTS Net Business Profits Results/Plan League Tables FY2015 FY2016 FY2018 results results plan (JPY billions) (Group aggregate, management account, rounded figures) Japan straight bonds and municipal 240 1st 1st 1st 218 bonds (underwriting amount) M&A (deals involving Japanese 1st 1st 1st companies) (No. of deals) M&A (deals involving Japanese 7th 1st Top 5 companies) (amount) FY2016 FY2017 Total equity underwriting results* plan 3rd 4th 2nd worldwide (underwriting amount) * FY2016 results recalculated based on FY2017 management account rules Proportion of Non-interest Income* Progress of Cross-shareholding Reduction Plan1 (JPY billions) Corporate & Institutional Company FY2015 FY2016 Reduction Target Reduction amount by March 2017 as of March 2017 JPY250 billion JPY275.3 billion 1,962.9 Reduction Target 1,847.1 Non-interest Interest income Non-interest Interest income by March 2019 1,687.5 income income 49 % 43% JPY550 billion 51% 57 % March March March March +6% year-on-year * Rounded figures, management account FY2018 target Approx. 60% 2015 2016 20172 1. Shares listed on the Japanese stock markets, acquisition cost basis 20192 2. The Corporate & Institutional Company’s book values after the end of March 2017 reflect the transfer to the Retail & Business Banking Company. Solutions that Support Sustainable Growth for Our Customers and Society Collaboration with the National Institute of Successful Case of a Cross-border M&A Value Chain Business Advanced Industrial Science and Technology (AIST) Mizuho provided integrated support as a group for a customer, who Based on a partnership agreement concluded in overtook an overseas competitor after years of deliberations. MHSC was December 2015 with AIST, MHBK implemented appointed FA1 and MHBK arranged the currency hedging and financing. initiatives intended to foster key regional companies. This case is a good MHBK These initiatives included holding open innovation example that shows how Business seminars and business matching events for customers. Mizuho earned the customstrategy We will continue to implement initiatives that promote er’s trust through years of MHBK MHSC innovations aimed at boosting Japan’s growth potential discussions, and how highly PMI2 M&A (FA) Cross-border and revitalizing regional communities. the group’s integrated caM&A pabilities are regarded. We will continue employing our MHBK MHBK comprehensive strengths in Permanent Currency supporting customers enloans hedges MHBK hance their corporate value. Bridge loans Signing of the partnership agreement with AIST 1. Financial advisor 2. Post-merger integration 2017 Integrated Report 42 Our Strategies for Creating Value Global Corporate Company Americas EMEA East Asia Asia & Oceania We aim for sustainable growth of our customers’ businesses Mediumto Long-term Company Strategy The US continues to show robust economic performance, however the economies of Europe and Asia remain relatively weak. The outlook for the world economy has become more uncertain against a background of a new administration in the US and increasing geopolitical risk due to Brexit and other factors. Furthermore, with the tightening of various regulations, business environment surrounding the financial industry remains uncertain. Regardless, our company aims to become the most trusted, sustainable partner of Japanese companies entering new markets overseas, as well as non-Japanese companies. We provide solutions that reflect a deep understanding of the businesses of our customers and our company’s strengths in corporate finance. For Japanese corporate customers, we support business expansion overseas by offering optimal financial solutions and consulting advice. Our activities range from providing information for customers considering entry into overseas markets to supporting business and financial strategies. Head of Global Corporate Company Akira Sugano 1. Current Environment Economy, Regulations, and Competition Strengths • European banks exiting non-core businesses such as • Solutions capabilities supported by in-depth knowledge through selling of customers’ businesses and integrated management of • Uncertainty in the global economy due to such factors as banking, trust banking, and securities functions External Environment Internal Conditions new US administration, Brexit, etc. • Collaborative office network and abundant information on • Strengthening of liquidity and capital adequacy requirements local companies and regulations in Asia • Rising cost of USD funding accompanying Fed rate hikes • Blue-chip customer base and high-quality portfolio Customers • Large footprint in Asia and North America • Further progress in globalization of Japanese companies Challenges • Acceleration of entry into Asia by European, US, and • Controlling expense increases due to regulatory costs, other multinational companies inflation, etc. Society • Establishing stable funding base, mainly through non-yen • Emerging countries in process of industrial development deposits and capital market development • Progress in industry realignment on a global basis 43 Mizuho Financial Group Our Strategies for Creating Value Global Corporate Company by offering solutions that draw on our in-depth understanding and our strengths in corporate finance. For non-Japanese companies, we are implementing our Global Additionally, to meet our customers’ broad business and financial 300 Strategy which involves focusing on a group of approximately strategy needs, we will strengthen not only loan financing but also 300 blue-chip companies around the world. As part of this strategy, transaction banking capabilities. This involves offering M&A, bond we use the industry sector-based approach to serving these underwriting (DCM), and other securities-related products as well as customers, focusing on sectors where we have an in-depth transaction banking services such as deposit, settlement, and trade understanding and a record of accomplishments to develop close finance that contribute to our customers’ global business relationships with the management of companies. Through this development and efficient cash management. By strengthening our strategic approach, we aim to build long-term relationships with product and service offerings as a financial services consulting group, blue-chip companies that contribute to sustainable growth on both we aim to enhance our profitability. sides. Moreover, in order to develop a stable business and On the other hand, as liquidity and capital become scarce, it is management foundation, we will continue to pursue operational essential for us to build a powerful financial base to develop long-term excellence and enhance non-yen currency funding capabilities. To partnerships with these companies. Achieving this includes achieve operational excellence, we will streamline our organization transforming our business portfolio based on profitability and and business processes on a group basis, and facilitate swift decision reallocating assets. Specifically, we are shifting assets to Global 300 making through a decentralized scheme. To enhance our non-yen and other high-profitability segments, along with downsizing lowcurrency funding capabilities, we will continue our efforts to attract profitability assets and non-yen assets with low liquidity, such as Over non-yen currency deposits and diversify our funding sources through 10-year bonds. the issuance of non-yen currency denominated bonds. 2. Value Creation Value for Customers Value for Society • Offer diverse solutions such as M&A, DCM, and transaction • Contribute to the development of global industries and banking through collaboration among banking, trust banking, emerging economies and securities entities • Contribute to the further development of financial markets and • Support Japanese companies entering new markets through financial education around the world agreements with government agencies around the world and local financial institutions • Provide latest information on global political and economic trends through gathering and analysis of information on international strategies 2017 Integrated Report 44 Our Strategies for Creating Value Global Corporate Company Fiscal 2016 Results and Plans for Fiscal 2017 and Beyond During fiscal 2016, the Global Corporate Company continued to face company. In addition, to secure liquidity in non-yen currencies, which challenging economic conditions, including the slowdown of is essential for building a sustainable business foundation, we worked economic growth in China and the rising regulatory expenses. Amid to increase our non-yen currency deposits. As a result, at the end of this environment, the company’s Net Business Profits were slightly fiscal 2016, the balance of our non-yen currency deposits rose below the target for the fiscal year. However, we undertook a range significantly to USD172.7 billion, up USD26.4 billion year-on-year. of initiatives to improve our services and profitability. We will continue pursuing our Global 300 strategy, while also In our transactions with non-Japanese companies, we steadily improving our services further as well as our profitability, in the expanded our business through implementation of our Global 300 Americas, Europe, and the rest of Asia, through full use of our strategy. We focused on taking the industry-sector specific approach analysis and proposal functions for each industry sector. We will offer and enhancing the collaboration between banking and securities a wide range of solutions to meet the diverse customer needs for functions. As a result, in fiscal 2016, we secured the ninth position in securities products, transaction banking, and other services. the DCM (bond underwriting) ranking in the Americas for the second Moreover, to establish a sustainable business and management consecutive year, and increased our share from 3.5% to 4.8%. These foundation, we are working to streamline our organizational structure and other indicators show our increasing market presence, and business processes as well as increase operating efficiency particularly in the US. In transaction banking, we reinforced our through the use of robotics and blockchain technology. These efforts organizational framework, upgraded our lineup of products, and are all aimed at improving both customer service and our cost enhanced the services we offer. structure. Along with these initiatives we are also continuing to take In order to provide in-depth support to companies entering new initiatives to establish a stable funding base, mainly for non-yen markets and expanding their businesses abroad, we are continuing to currencies. augment our global office network. Recently, we opened Mizuho As we implement these strategies, we will accelerate initiatives to Bank Mexico and a branch in Phnom Penh, Cambodia. In addition, expand our business, strengthen bottom-line profits, and transform we took active initiatives to conclude cooperative arrangements with our business portfolio structure. By continuing to offer services that government agencies and financial and non-financial institutions are in line with customer needs, we will achieve sustainable growth around the world in order to promote foreign direct investment by together with our customers into the years to come. Japanese companies. In the further pursuit of operational excellence, the Head Office and the Regional Headquarters are working in concert to maximize group-wide productivity. Such efforts include eliminating overlapping operations and introducing electronic workflows in place of paperbased operations. In the US, we integrated administrative functions among the US group companies by establishing a bank holding 3. Business Plans Risk Appetite Policy Action Plans • Focus on developing relationships with blue-chip non• Shift management resources from low-profitability to Japanese companies, especially the Global 300 higher-profitability segments • Reallocate capital and liquidity from low-profitability • Ensure thoroughgoing cross-selling between transaction segments to higher-profitability segments with prospects banking and securities/market products for business expansion • Promote operational excellence through integrated • Increase the volume of non-yen currency deposits and operation on a group-wide basis, streamlining of business improve deposit quality processes, and other measures • Secure non-yen currency deposits and diversify non-yen currency funding sources 45 Mizuho Financial Group Our Strategies for Creating Value Global Corporate Company 2016 HIGHLIGHTS Net Business Profits Results/Plan Non-interest Income outside Japan (JPY billions) (Group aggregate, management account, rounded figures) (USD billions) 115 123 Up 30% from FY2015 1.4 1.4 FY2016 FY2017 FY2015 FY2016 FY2018 results* plan results results plan *FY2016 results recalculated based on FY2017 management account rules Non-JPY Deposits1 US Bond (DCM) Ranking* (USD billions) (USD millions) Ranking (Share) ■ Net Business Profits (%) Up 10% from FY2015 200 9th (4.8%) 6 172.7 150 9th (3.5%) 146.3 13th (2.9%) 4 100 2 50 0 0 FY2015 FY2016 FY2018 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 results results plan2 results results results 1. MHBK and principal subsidiaries basis, including deposits of central banks, etc. Global *Bonds worth USD250 million or more, excluding off-shore issuance. Source: Dealogic Corporate Company management basis 2. Change from FY2015 estimates Solutions that Support Sustainable Growth for Our Customers and Society Global 300 Strategy Upgrading our Systems for Transaction Banking In the major deals for US company AT&T, one of our We are strengthening our operating structure for transaction banking as a Global 300 customers, we secured the position of source of stable non-interest income and non-yen funding. We established bookrunner for successive deals: USD4 billion in May our Global Transaction Banking Department in Singapore in April 2016 2016 and USD10 billion in January 2017. These deals and recruited global transaction bankers for our four regional offices in the in the dynamically realigning Technology, Media, and US, Europe, East Asia, and Asia & Oceania. Through these initiatives, we Telecom (TMT) sector were symbolic of the high status are working to strengthen our capabilities for meeting the increasingly our Global 300 strategy involving a series of business sophisticated fund management needs of our customers who are and financial strategy proposals can gain for us. expanding their businesses globally. Looking ahead, we are aiming to substantially raise our profile as a global player. Global Transaction Banking Department Network 40 10 50 50 London Office China Office Tokyo Office New York Office 110 20 Singapore Hong Kong Head Office Office Headcount (rounded figures) 2017 Integrated Report 46 Our Strategies for Creating Value Global Markets Company Investors We aim to become a leading capabilities for offering Mediumto Long-term Company Strategy Although the world economy is continuing to recover at a moderate pace, concerns about rising populism and geopolitical risk and other factors are bringing greater uncertainty. Along with the transition to a stage of normalization in financial policy, primarily in the US, signs of change are emerging in the interest rate environment, such as shrinkage in the spreads between short-term and long-term rates. On the other hand, AI and other technology innovation are expected to bring changes in market structure. As this highly uncertain economic and market environment may continue, there are signs that customers are shifting from savings to investments/asset building, and the need for risk hedging, asset management, and cross-border transactions is increasing. Amidst this environment, we have a social responsibility to meet these needs while also responding to changes in the market structure accompanied by technology innovation. The Global Markets Company conducts Sales & Trading business by offering solutions to customers, and engages in ALM*/ Head of Global Markets Company Junichi Kato 1. Current Environment Economy, Regulations, and Competition Strengths • Increasing global political uncertainty and higher volatility • Capabilities for offering sophisticated products and • Signs of change in the interest rate environment with solutions through collaboration among banking, trust External Environment shrinkage in the spreads between short-term and long-term banking, and securities functions Internal Conditions rates • Operating structure tailored to each customer segment • Greater need to cope with tighter financial regulations • Efficient portfolio management structure characterized by Customers early warning control and appropriate allocation • Shift from savings to investments/asset building Challenges • Greater need for risk hedging and asset management • Strengthen product offering capabilities • Increase in cross-border transactions • Strengthen capabilities for meeting investor needs Society • Develop a global business infrastructure • Changes in market structure accompanied by AI and other • Improve the sophistication of portfolio management technological progress 47 Mizuho Financial Group Our Strategies for Creating Value Global Markets Company Asian player in the global market by strengthening our products for each customer segment Investment business through securities investment and liquidity thoroughly, we will maintain the soundness of our portfolios and work management. The strengths of our company in Sales & Trading to secure stable profits. business include, under the One MIZUHO Strategy, our deep Meanwhile, we will respond to the increasing need of global understanding of customers’ needs, our capabilities for analysis and investors by enhancing our lineup of products and further forecasting financial market trends in detail and our ability for development of our structure. In the medium to long term, we will providing products/solutions that draw on our knowledge, experience, develop a global business infrastructure that adopts cutting-edge and professional expertise. We are working to substantially strengthen technologies, and, by pursuing greater convenience for customers these capabilities by adopting an operating structure that satisfies the and operational excellence to promote efficiency and improvements needs of customer segments and individual companies and offering of our operational processes, we will aim for further enhancement of optimal product solutions to meet increasingly diverse needs, thereby our competitiveness. contributing to their sustainable growth. Moreover, as global financial Through these activities, we will achieve both customer professionals, we are continuing to take initiatives to promote the satisfaction and high profitability, as a leading Asian player in the sound development of financial markets through providing market global market. liquidity and participating actively in industry associations. *Asset Liability Management: Comprehensive management of assets and liabilities The strengths of the ALM/Investment business include the early warning control to quickly identify changes in the markets and the efficient portfolio management based on prompt decision making and appropriate allocation. By carrying out efficient portfolio management 2. Value Creation Value for Customers Value for Society • Offer optimal solutions that make use of market products to • Continuously provide liquidity in offering a wide range of meet a wide range of customers’ risk hedging and asset market products as global financial professionals management needs • Contribute to the development of sound financial markets by • Offer information on market trends based on global complying with various regulations and participating in information gathering and analysis capabilities industry associations 2017 Integrated Report 48 Our Strategies for Creating Value Global Markets Company Results in Fiscal 2016 and Plans for Fiscal 2017 and Beyond In fiscal 2016, despite the difficult business environment affected by implemented, we are entering a stage where the ability to respond to the impact of negative interest rates and the sharp rise in US treasury these regulations will make competitive advantage. yield in the second half of the fiscal year, the Global Markets Company Under these conditions, the Global Markets Company will made Net Business Profits of JPY315.0 billion (excluding income allocate resources on a priority basis to its Sales & Trading business. related to ETFs1) and met its plan target for the fiscal year. We will take a flexible approach to risk taking and strengthen our In the Sales & Trading business, as financial markets showed product offering capabilities. Specifically, while we cope with the major fluctuations, we made profits well above the target by acquiring various regulations, we will reorganize our operating structure of flow-type business, such as derivatives, foreign exchange, bonds, derivatives business in the US, Europe, and Asia to allow integrated and equities to meet risk hedging and management needs of operation and strengthen our appeal to global customers, which will customers and by taking positions flexibly. Moreover, this development also lead to enhanced profitability. In addition, we will accelerate our steadily increased our presence in the market. The collaboration efforts to improve CVA3 management under future Basel regulations. between Mizuho’s banking and securities functions including In fact, we became the first Japanese megabank to establish a CVA strengthening the sales approach to financial institutions started to Office in April 2017. bring some good results such as the steady rise of customers’ In the ALM/Investment business, we will work to enhance evaluations in the market. non-yen currency funding capabilities through sophisticating the In the ALM/Investment business, the investment environment management of balance sheet. We will enhance the efficiency of our deteriorated further with the increasing global uncertainty due to portfolio management through early warning control, diversification, Brexit and other factors, the widening of the negative margin on and prompt decision making. We will make appropriate judgments on long-term government bonds in the Japanese market and restructuring our bond portfolios. We will also accelerate initiatives to subsequent reversal and rise in interest rates, and the sharp rise in utilize cutting-edge technologies for efficient and sophisticated US treasury yield following the presidential election in the US. operations. However, the success of our appropriate position management in Going forward, through these efforts, we will endeavor to response to changes in the market environment combined with early contribute to the sustainable growth of our customers and sound warning control enabled us to maintain the soundness of our portfolio development of financial markets. and achieve profits generally on target. 1. Exchange-traded Funds In fiscal 2017, a highly uncertain environment is likely to continue 2. Interest Rate Risk on Banking Book: With the Basel capital adequacy requirements, due to political developments in Europe and the US. In addition, as stricter rules were applied for disclosure of interest rate risk in the banking account various financial regulations, including IRRBB2, are scheduled to be 3. Credit Valuation Adjustment: Method to reflect counterparty’s credit risk in the valuation of derivatives transactions 3. Business Plans Risk Appetite Policy Action Plans • Strengthen capabilities for flexible risk taking and product • Further enhance product offering capabilities offering by focusing resource to Sales & Trading business • Achieve further integration by reorganizing derivatives • In addition to improving sophistication of balance sheet business operations in the US, Europe, and Asia management, ensure accuracy in allocations and efficiency • Sophisticate balance sheet management • Make appropriate judgments on restructuring bond • Maximize efficiency in portfolio management through early portfolios warning control and investment diversification and appropriate decision making • Use cutting-edge technology to enhance operating efficiency and sophistication 49 Mizuho Financial Group Our Strategies for Creating Value Global Markets Company 2016 HIGHLIGHTS Net Business Profits Results/Plan Sales & Trading Revenue (JPY billions) (Group aggregate, management account, rounded figures) (JPY billions) 315 375 345 300 219 FY2016 FY2017 FY2015 FY2016 FY2018 results* plan results results plan *FY2016 results recalculated based on FY2017 management account rules *Global Markets Company management basis Excluding ETFs (including ETFs: JPY345 billion) Japanese Equity (Ranking & Share) FX (Ranking & Score) Trading share Customer satisfaction among corporate customers (Asia, excluding Japan) 8.4% 7.8% 529 502 2nd* 7th* 4th* 19th* 2015 2016 2015 2016 results results results results *Among 20 companies *Among 35 companies Source: Greenwich Global Japanese Cash Equities Commission-weighted Trading Share Source: Greenwich Quality Index Asia excluding Japan FX Solutions that Support Sustainable Growth for Our Customers and Society Offering Clearing Services and Active Participation in Industry Associations Mizuho offers the clearing services of Japan Securities Clearing Corporation (JSCC). MHBK won the leading market share of customers using clearing services for JPY interest rate derivatives, for two years in a row since 2015. In addition, Mizuho is an active participant in the International Swap Dealers Association (ISDA) and other industry associations. By doing so we are supporting customers to meet various regulations and are contributing to the sound development of financial markets. Established the CVA Office ahead of Other Japanese Banks Since the collapse of Lehman Brothers, the importance of managing counterparty risk has become more important than ever in the derivatives market. Credit Valuation Adjustment (CVA) is the method to reflect the counterparty’s credit risk in the valuation of derivatives transactions. The Basel Committee on Banking Supervision requires banks to improve the framework for CVA. MHBK established a CVA Office ahead of other Japanese banks in April 2017. Through the appropriate control of CVA risk, we will continue to contribute to sound development of derivatives markets and fulfill customers’ needs. Dealing room in the MHBK Head Office 2017 Integrated Report 50 Our Strategies for Creating Value Asset Management Company Investors We will contribute to activating to long-term asset building by Mediumto Long-term Company Strategy Taking into consideration ongoing negative interest rates and population decline marked by falling birthrates and an aging population, the importance of asset building via asset management can only increase in the future. In this kind of environment, a major issue facing Japan is for public and corporate pensions to achieve stable investment performance and thereby sustain the pension system. Likewise, for individual households it will become even more important to prepare for retirement by engaging in asset building with self-help efforts. The Asset Management Company works together with Mizuho’s banking, trust banking, and securities entities and Asset Management One and cooperates with other in-house companies to serve the needs of a wide range of customers, from individuals to institutional investors (pension funds, financial institutions, corporations, etc.) by providing products and solutions backed by sophisticated investment Head of Asset Management Company Katsunobu Motohashi 1. Current Environment Economy, Regulations, and Competition Strengths • Demand for a higher level of fiduciary duties • One of the largest outstanding assets under management • Deteriorating investment market environment and in Japan and Asia • Investment expertise cultivated in pension business and External Environment intensifying global competition Internal Conditions product-development expertise honed in investment trust Customers business • Increased convenience and greater need for asset • One of the largest investment trust marketing systems in management as a result of NISA1 and iDeCo2 regulatory Japan reform • Ability to provide comprehensive pension consulting and • Greater need for investment sophistication and diversification solutions as a result of the negative interest rate environment Challenges • Downward pressure on trust fees due to the popularity of • Further strengthening of integrated management in Asset passive investments and ETFs Management One Society • Further building up of balance of investment trusts to • Progress in technology innovation (AI, Robo-advisor, etc.) accommodate increased customer needs 1. Nippon Individual Savings Account: Small-lot, tax-exempt investment accounts • Development of flagship funds conducive to mediumto 2. Individual-type defined contribution pension plan long-term asset building 51 Mizuho Financial Group Our Strategies for Creating Value Asset Management Company Japan’s financial assets by supporting customers’ mediumfulfilling the highest level of fiduciary duties. capabilities. This, in turn, contributes to activating Japan’s financial accelerating our efforts to provide comprehensive consulting and assets. solutions covering customer needs such as building pension For our individual customers, we make use of advanced portfolios, ALM analysis, and pension governance support. As a investment know-how cultivated in our pension business to provide leader in fulfilling fiduciary duties, we are endeavoring to obtain higher investment trust and other products useful for mediumto long-term evaluations from our customers. asset building. In addition, with respect to investment trust sales Furthermore, we are continuing with initiatives aimed at companies (banks, securities companies, etc.) in direct contact with integrated management in order to reap greater benefits from the customers, we make full use of Asset Management One’s marketing integration of asset management companies into Asset Management system, one of Japan’s largest, to provide Seminar One and other One. We will be further developing investment capabilities that serve unique training programs covering not only investment education but as an engine of asset management business. Regarding the also support for human resource development. Through this support enhancement of our investment capabilities, we are taking a mediumfor enhancing sales skills at sales companies, we are working to raise to long-term perspective as we work to make active use of leadingunderstanding of asset-building needs and methods among the edge technologies such as AI and big data. individual customers. Through these efforts, we will increase the Through the initiatives mentioned above, we will drive the shift balance and ratio of investment trusts among asset under from savings to investments/asset building and establish asset management by building up investment trust balances of products management business as the fourth pillar of Mizuho. and developing flagship funds conducive to mediumto long-term * In October 2016, the new company Asset Management One was established through asset building. the integration of DIAM, the asset management function of MHTB, Mizuho Asset For institutional investors, who manage pension funds, in Management, and Shinko Asset Management. addition to improving the sophistication of their investments, we are 2. Value Creation Value for Customers Value for Society • Individuals: Respond to the ever growing need for steady • Support self-help efforts of individual customers’ asset asset building from mediumto long-term perspectives as building in the medium to long term thereby contributing to more people prepare for retirement activation of Japan’s financial assets • Institutional investors: Respond to the need for comprehensive • Increase future national wealth and provide companies with pension consulting, portfolio diversification and steady growth money, thereby contributing to a virtuous circle for the performance, and investment alternatives to Japanese Japanese economy government bonds in the negative interest rate environment 2017 Integrated Report 52 Our Strategies for Creating Value Asset Management Company Fiscal 2016 Results and Plans for Fiscal 2017 and Beyond Fiscal 2016 was a challenging year for asset management business, We are also making even greater efforts with regard to the with difficult investment conditions continuing due to low interest rates defined-benefit (DB) pensions and defined-contribution (DC) pensions worldwide. The inflow of funds into public investment trusts reached that serve as a stable business foundation. For DB pensions, taking its lowest level since the global financial crisis of 2008. Nevertheless, advantage as the only trust bank that has outsourced investment we made efforts to offer investment trust products that contribute to operations, MHTB is accelerating the development of a the shift from savings to investments/asset building and as a result comprehensive pension consulting service which has at its core we were able to achieve our company’s Net Business Profit plan. In fiduciary management service that exercises asset management addition, assets under management increased by JPY1 trillion to authority and responsibility on behalf of pension funds. JPY53 trillion, compared to the previous fiscal year. In addition, Mizuho has one of the largest shares of pension With the launch of Asset Management One in October 2016, we subscribers (over 1.1 million) for DC pensions in Japan, a system that achieved one of our key management goals: integration of our group has been further developed in recent years and that supports the selfasset management functions. The size of its assets under management help efforts of individuals as they build assets for their retirement. In is among the largest in Asia. Our investment capabilities are highly conjunction with the recent deregulations for iDeCo, which greatly evaluated by customers, and we have the largest balance of assets expanded the pool of eligible people, in November 2016 we released under management from the world’s largest public pension fund a pension version of the SMART FOLIO automated investment (GPIF*). advisory service to help new subscribers with the selection of Since its start, Asset Management One has provided investment investment products. We will continue to work to improve trusts that curb downswings exceeding a specified level and that convenience for our customers. utilize pension fund know-how also employed by the GPIF. It has also By further enhancing the integrated management of Asset held 2,800 seminars and study meetings in total for investment trust Management One and differentiating our pension services, we will sales companies. continue to focus on operational excellence, thereby contributing to Looking ahead, through integrated management, we will bring activating Japan’s financial assets. together asset management expertise developed over many years by * Government Pension Investment Fund the four integrated companies, and provide the best solutions to customers as asset management professionals. We will thereby strive to achieve still greater success as a global asset management company. 3. Business Plans Risk Appetite Policy Action Plans • Allocate resources to investment capabilities, investment • Strengthen capabilities to cope with needs for sophisticated trust and pension businesses, viewing asset management investment and mediumto long-term asset building business as a growth area contributing to the expansion of • Introduce sophisticated investment methods, including use Mizuho’s non-interest income as well as improved balance of digital innovations sheet control • Focus efforts on expanding investment trust business and improving pension services • Taking into account the shift from savings to investments/ asset building, allocate more resources to investment trusts • Accelerate offering of comprehensive pension consulting/ solutions 53 Mizuho Financial Group Our Strategies for Creating Value Asset Management Company 2016 HIGHLIGHTS Net Business Profits Results/Plan Assets under Management as of March 2017 Corporate / Individual DC Subscribers (JPY billions) (Group aggregate, management account, rounded figures) (thousands) Investment Trusts 1,122 24 20 JPY 14 trillion 1,064 (26%) 995 Total JPY53 trillion Pension, etc. FY2016 FY2017 JPY 39 trillion May 2014 May 2015 May 2016 results* plan (74%) * FY2016 results recalculated based on FY2017 management account rules Solutions that Support Sustainable Growth for Our Customers and Society Fiduciary Management Initiatives Fiduciary Management In order to fulfill mandatary and fiduciary duties in pension funds, there is growing needs to entrust investment and other operations to Customers external institutions. Outsourcing Overall operation support MHTB outsources investment operations to Asset Management One, etc. We thereby maintain a unique advantage in engaging in Policy and asset fiduciary management service. Monitoring/ mix formulation/ MHTB Reporting We analyze and examine our customers’ pension portfolio, and revision give advice on formulating and revising asset allocation plans on a Specialized mediumto long-term basis, making good use of MHTB’s experience institution (fiduciary Construction of Portfolio analysis/ and knowledge as professionals. We also provide support with manager) governance in examination pensions respect to pension governance and overall pension operations. As a leader in fulfilling fiduciary duties, we are enhancing our consulting capabilities in order to obtain higher evaluations from our customers. Asset manager Asset manager Asset manager Asset manager Asset management Expanding Our Service Lineup to Meet Customers’ Mediumto Long-term Asset Building Needs At Asset Management One, we make good use of investment know-how cultivated in pension business, and provide investment trusts that meet the mediumto long-term asset building needs of our customers. For example, in a balanced fund with exposure to five overseas assets and full foreign exchange hedging, we provide options for curbing downswings exceeding a specified level in order to meet the needs of customers looking for stable investment. In addition, in a smalland medium-cap stock fund focused on global growth, we provide our individual customers with access to pension investment strategies also employed by the GPIF. We will continue to contribute to activating Japan’s financial assets by providing investment trusts that drive the shift from savings to investments/asset building. 2017 Integrated Report 54 Our Strategies for Creating Value Global Products Unit Transaction Banking Investment Banking We aim to improve our ability consulting unit” that displays Mediumto Long-term Unit Strategy The Global Products Unit consists of an investment banking business and a transaction banking business. It acts as the product function platform for the entire group. As the global economy becomes increasingly uncertain, the risk of price fluctuations in stocks, bonds, real estates and commodities is becoming greater. Our customers’ needs are becoming more sophisticated and diverse as companies become more globalized. Furthermore, transformations in the business environment are gathering speed with technological innovations such as Fintech. The unit’s strengths are our close collaboration with group companies such as banking, trust banking, and securities, and our expertise and know-how on products. At the same time, expansion into new business sectors is a challenge that we must tackle in order to respond to changes in economic and social environments. Given the current circumstances, we will aim to become a “products consulting unit” that displays advanced expertise and delivers optimal solutions to meet our customers’ needs. We will do Head of Global Products Unit Shinji Taniguchi 1. Current Environment Economy, Regulations, and Competition Strengths • Increasing risk of price fluctuations in stocks, bonds, real • Enhanced collaboration among group companies estate, and commodities • Expertise and know-how to achieve a high level of External Environment • Commoditization of a wide variety of products performance in a wide range of areas in the investment Internal Conditions Customers banking and transaction banking businesses • Increasing need for asset management in a low interest • Operational framework and platform that cut across rate environment customer segments on a global basis for each product • Increased M&A activities for business transformation such as succession and expansion beyond the borders Challenges • Create a room for new risk asset investment and boost Society • Introduction of new settlement businesses by Fintech ROE ventures, etc. • Accelerate development of new products that respond to • Expansion of high quality infrastructure investments and technology innovations and changes in the business concession business* environment • Entry of non-financial institutions • Manage human resources more efficiently * Arrangements under which the operation of public facilities, etc., is assigned to a private-sector business, while the ownership of the facilities remains with the public sector. 55 Mizuho Financial Group Our Strategies for Creating Value Global Products Unit to respond to customer needs and to become a “products a high level of expertise on a global basis. this by further refining our operational framework and platform on a sector and through initiatives to expand the use of renewable energy global basis, as well as by expanding new business domains. by funding the solar power and wind power industries. In the global transactions sector, we will boost our ability to We will also boost user-friendliness for our customers by provide our customers with services by realigning our organization, expanding new business domains using technology, as in the for example by creating a one-stop system capable of handling trade construction of the API* for the secure connection of Fintech services finance and cash management, and by establishing a global in the online banking sector, and initiatives utilizing blockchains in the collaboration structure between our offices. trade finance business. We will also respond seamlessly to our customers’ needs and Through such initiatives, we will aim to become a “products support their corporate growth by offering a wide range of products consulting unit” and to contribute to greater convenience for our and solutions that are appropriate for their development stage. We customers and to social progress. will leverage our banking, trust banking, and securities functions not only in our M&A advisory and financing business and when serving as * Application Programming Interface: Programs and interfaces used to connect systems an intermediary in the real estate sector, but also in currency to external services, etc. transactions and when we serve as the IPO bookrunner or transfer agent when a company becomes listed on the stock exchange. In addition, we will contribute to the growth of industries and meet social needs by supporting companies’ globalization, in each 2. Value Creation Value for Customers Value for Society • Value chains that combine multiple solutions through • Contribute to companies’ globalization through support in collaboration among group companies such areas as M&A and transaction banking • Optimal solutions for customer’s business strategies, such as • Contribute to the growth of various industries by providing M&A and IPOs solutions in the light of policy backing for infrastructure export and concession business • Support for customers expanding globally through our office network that connects the world in a wide range of product • Provide solutions that respond to social changes by areas developing new products that incorporate advanced technology • Facilitate the greater use of renewable energy through means such as supporting the solar power and wind power industries 2017 Integrated Report 56 Our Strategies for Creating Value Global Products Unit Fiscal 2016 Results and Plans for Fiscal 2017 and Beyond Our investment banking business and transaction banking business We also reorganized our middle-market M&A advisory business both achieved good results overall in fiscal 2016. and global transactions business as a way to improve customer In the M&A sector, we worked on large-scale transactions as convenience. In addition to endeavouring to provide meticulous well as meeting business succession needs of middle-market services, we started accepting corporate account applications online corporations. We engaged in a total of 182 transactions during the as a way to save customers’ time. fiscal year, involving a total amount of JPY6.9 trillion, winning us the In order to sophisticate group-wide value chains that organically top slot in the league table for both the number of deals and the combine multiple solutions, in fiscal 2017 we will further strengthen amounts. the unit’s internal and external collaboration, and move forward with Similarly, in the syndicated loans sector, we placed top for the expanding and optimizing the breadth of the solutions we provide by eighth year running as the market leader for syndicated loans in giving greater emphasis to fostering human resources and reinforcing Japan. their expertise. The expansion of new business domains to We also performed well overall in the league tables for domestic accommodate the needs of our customers and of society at large is project finance and other sectors, as well as in external evaluations in an ongoing task from fiscal 2016. We will work to achieve that aim by the transaction banking sector. drawing upon the diverse expertise of the group and collaborating In addition to these achievements, we launched various new with other in-house companies and units. initiatives in our business sectors, leveraging the unit’s strength in Facing major changes in the external environment, we will integrating banking, trust banking, and securities entities. In the real provide product support for the group, and contribute to resolving the estate sector, we created new business opportunities through various issues of our customers and of society. alliances with our subsidiary Simplex, such as establishing a private placement REIT. In the project finance sector, we provided investment opportunities in global project finance receivables for investors in and outside Japan through the securitization of loan receivables. 3. Business Plans Risk Appetite Policy Action Plans • Offer product functions cross-sectionally to in-house • Respond to a wide range of customer needs by seamlessly companies and entities with the aim of expanding the offering diverse products that integrate our group group’s non-interest income business companies’ banking, trust banking, and securities functions • Maintain asset liquidity for ultra-long-term assets and • Strategically reduce risk assets to generate new asset non-yen currency assets in the light of regulations and investment reserves and achieve a high ROE market trends • Leverage our product expertise and market sensitivity to • Explore new business domains by developing products open up new business domains that use latest technologies, including non-conventional • Further boost productivity through the use of advanced products technology and streamlining the organization 57 Mizuho Financial Group Our Strategies for Creating Value Global Products Unit 2016 HIGHLIGHTS Accomplishments in Investment Banking Accomplishments in Transaction Banking FY2016 Results FY2016 Results M&A Advisory for Announced Deals (Japan CMS 1 No. 1 No. 1 corporations)1 2 Project Finance (Japan)2 No. 1 Custody (Sub-custodian) No. 1 Syndicated Loans (Japan)3 No. 1 1. Cash Management Service Mizuho won the first place in terms of customer satisfaction in the CMS ranking survey of Asia Money magazine (in the Japanese market, covering companies with large sales). ABS Lead Manager4 No. 1 2. Securities custody and administration for securities investments Mizuho won the first place in custody bank survey rankings in Japan in both Global Custodian Japan Publicly Offered Bonds (Industrial magazine and Global Investor magazine. No. 1 bonds & electric power bonds)5 1. Number of deals basis, excluding real 3. Amount basis, bookrunner basis estate deals 4. Amount basis, asset-backed securities 2. Amount basis, bookrunner basis 5. Underwriting amount basis, excluding own bonds Solutions that Support Sustainable Growth for Our Customers and Society Maintaining Close Relationships with Customers Listing IPO-related Business MHSC-arranged IPO bookrunner and stock transfer agent ■ No. of deals where MHSC IPOs in which was the bookrunner1 MHTB Acted as ■ No. of deals where MHTB became No.1 Stock Transfer Agent The Global Products Unit provides services for customers considering the stock transfer agent2 Retail & Business Banking an IPO, with MHSC serving as the bookrunner and MHTB as the 31 Company management basis stock transfer agent. Collaborations among group companies allow us to efficiently provide our customers with multiple services. 63% No.2 In fiscal 2016, MHSC served as the bookrunner in 16 deals, and 19 15 16 MHTB provided stock transfer agent services for roughly 60% of 14 29% those customers. We will continue to promote collaboration among 9 group companies to provide solutions that meet the comprehensive 5 6 needs of our customers. FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2015 FY2016 results results results results results results Collaborations with Regional Financial Institutions 1. Prepared using CAPITAL EYE based on large financial institutions. Excludes REITs Regional banks have started to handle MHTB’s living trustsand global offerings 2. Prepared using disclosed materials from each company. Excludes REITs, ETF, and professional market. Living trusts are products where, as the trustee, MHTB takes custody of monetary asset as trust property. It is transferred to the 1 ‌ (entrustor and primary Customer beneficiary(ies) based on the conditions laid out beforehand in Solicitation/ Trust contract when the need of property inheritance arises. sales agent contract MHTB Hokkaido Bank and North Pacific Bank began handling MHTB’s (trustee) (depositee) Regional financial beneficiary) Trust living trusts on October 3, 2016 and February 1, 2017 respectively. contract With the aging of the population, there is growing interest in asset 2 ‌ 3 ‌ (vendor) Regional financial Trust Investment institutions succession and inheritance. We will continue to work in alliance with settings (deposit) (monetary regional financial institutions to meet the diverse needs of our asset) 4 ‌ institutions Principal (secondary beneficiary(ies)) Beneficiaries customers, providing more accessible specialized trust fund products. Trust dividends added to trust fund and interest Main investment: such as family fixed-term deposit account 5 ‌ Pay to beneficiaries, Monetary such as family, as an Surplus funds: asset inheritance savings account 2017 Integrated Report 58 Our Strategies for Creating Value Research & Consulting Unit We aim to be the No. 1 Think our evolving research and issues they confront. Mediumto Long-term Unit Strategy Mizuho’s Research & Consulting Unit was newly established in April 2016 as One Think Tank to bring together Mizuho’s research and consulting functions. It aims to become the fifth pillar supporting Mizuho’s objective of being a financial services consulting group as envisioned in its medium-term business plan. As One Think Tank, this unit integrates Mizuho’s banking, trust banking, and securities entities together with its research and consulting entities (MHRI, MHIR, and Mizuho-DL Financial Technology) and, thereby, enables Mizuho to offer its capabilities seamlessly to its customers. The unit is, therefore, positioned to help resolve such corporate issues as management/financial strategy, passing on businesses and assets to the next generation, and IT systems as well as take initiatives to solve such broader issues of society and the public sector as environment/energy, infrastructure, and health care. In today’s changing environment, it is becoming increasingly difficult to predict the future course of developments in the economy, Head of Research & Consulting Unit Keiichiro Ogushi 1. Current Environment Economy, Regulations, and Competition Strengths • Increasingly unpredictable economic, financial, and social • Research function with broad coverage ranging from environment, which is undergoing rapid changes macroeconomy to industry trends External Environment • Consulting functions with broad coverage ranging from Internal Conditions • Increasing convergence of strategies of our competitors management/financial strategy to environment, social Customers security, IT, and healthcare • Increasing needs to pass on businesses/assets to the • Expertise in technology fields, including IT systems and next generation with aging of proprietors data analysis Society • Broad customer relationship through the largest corporate • Emergence of new business fields along with rapid digital membership organization among Japanese banks innovation Challenges • Expanding opportunities in public-private partnerships, • Shortage of resources to cope with broadening research with the trend of increased private-sector participation in and consulting needs government projects • Fusion of innovative technology with consulting business • Research and consulting network to cope with globalization 59 Mizuho Financial Group Our Strategies for Creating Value Research & Consulting Unit Tank, supporting the growth of our customers by using consulting capabilities to the fullest extent to address the finance, and society. We have identified four key points for our As One Think Tank, we will further enhance our strengths in initiatives in the current medium-term business plan and we aim to be digital technology fields such as IT and data analysis, in order to the No. 1 Think Tank as the best team of experts capable of providing support both Mizuho’s own innovation and the growth of our optimal solutions for our customers. customers. We will help our customers expand their business and increase Major Initiatives efficiency by applying digital technology, for example, sophisticated (1) “Advance utility functions” though collaboration among our big data analysis for marketing support and AI-based or Fintech in-house companies to address increasingly complicated business solutions. issues of our customers Other initiatives will include using ICT to develop online channels (2) “Enhance One Think Tank brand value” through proactively that are highly accessible and offer a larger number of customers the promoting our advanced knowledge/know-how information and solutions we have developed as One Think Tank. (3) “Advance global solutions to our customers” in the midst of rising Also, we will aim to improve the contents and convenience of Mizuho’s uncertainty in the global business environment corporate membership service which is one of the largest in scale (4) “Promote a market-driven approach” from the viewpoint of among Japanese banks. “Customer First” We will continue to evolve as One Think Tank and, in addition to the knowledge we have garnered from our research and consulting The true value of our unit will be evaluated by how we can activities, adopt new digital technologies to be developed which will respond to the changes in business environment surrounding Mizuho be a key factor in this further evolution. and our customers, especially to rapid digital innovation. 2. Value Creation Value for Customers Value for Society • Contribute to customers’ growth strategies by offering • Contribute to the revitalization of regions and the fostering of comprehensive solutions encompassing digital technology next-generation growth industries by making use of respective expertise of MHBK’s Industry Research Department, MHIR, • Help customers formulate growth strategies, with and MHRI comprehensive measures ranging from high-level debate • Contribute to addressing social, infrastructure, and based on in-house industry research to advice on environmental issues globally through provision of PPP/PFI reorganization and its financial implications advisory services based on knowledge of public policy • Provide comprehensive know-how to wide-ranging customers • Help to navigate through increasingly uncertain social and covering SMEs, middle-market corporations, and business economic conditions through reports and forums that transmit owners through our corporate membership service high-level expertise and know-how in a range of areas, from economic/social trends to structural changes in industries and • Provide institutional investors with decision-making support in individual fields such as the environment, social security, through industry-leading analyst research and IT 2017 Integrated Report 60 Our Strategies for Creating Value Research & Consulting Unit Fiscal 2016 Results and Plans for Fiscal 2017 and Beyond We positioned fiscal 2016, the first year of One Think Tank, as the owners, and transformation of organizational and HR systems that year to establish a foundation for our utility function by concentrating are needed for flexible work arrangements. Looking ahead, the unit the group’s research and consulting functions and establishing a will expand its capabilities for responding to these consulting needs. structure for in-house companies to work in collaboration. Over this Building on the foundations laid in fiscal 2016, the unit will work to one-year period, the Research & Consulting Unit has put highest achieve greater collaboration and fusion among its internal resources priority on having customers and in-house companies make use of and pursue greater depth and breadth in its One Think Tank initiatives the unit’s utility functions. in fiscal 2017. The unit has increased the use of its research capabilities in and As we pursue our market-driven approach, aimed at closely outside Japan. This was accomplished through the release of One allying with customer needs, we will also take initiatives in digital Think Tank reports, including reports on Brexit and the US presidential innovation with a view to our long-term growth strategy. At the same election which were highly evaluated for their timeliness and quality, time, we will give priority to strengthening our capabilities for meeting and the holding of the One Think Tank Forum, which provided a expanding research and consulting needs and working to achieve venue for presenting ideas regarding the Japanese economy and greater expertise in our global research. society in the year 2020. To respond to the issues of individual To strengthen our capabilities for meeting expanding research customers and provide optimal solutions on a fee and non-fee basis, and consulting needs, we will reinforce our consulting team and work the unit also collaborated with the in-house companies to provide to optimize the allocation of resources within our unit, with the goals consulting. As such, we have managed to gain a firm foothold in our of enabling the unit as a whole to respond to increasing needs. In activities as One Think Tank. addition, we will enhance the consulting capabilities at frontline offices On the other hand, as uncertainty over the economy, finance, of each in-house company. and society continues to grow, customers’ expectations regarding To achieve greater expertise in our global research, we will focus research and consulting functions are increasing. To meet these our efforts especially on Asia. In fiscal 2017, we will focus on providing expectations, we believe that it will be important for the unit to create support to Japanese companies expanding outside Japan and an even more solid foundation for its activities. non-Japanese companies entering Japanese and other Asian In its research functions, the unit provides top quality information markets. To this end, we will strengthen our knowledge of Asia in Japan related to politics, economy and industry. Also, in global outside Japan, and collaborate with our group’s in-house companies. research, the unit is working to achieve greater differentiation by We will continue to address various issues facing our customers strengthening its ties with related parties in and outside of the unit. which are becoming more diverse, complex, and global in scope by In its consulting functions, the current and latent needs of consolidating capabilities within the unit and enhancing collaboration customers are increasing in a broad range of fields. The unit is giving with in-house companies, thereby strengthen our presence as One close attention to such issues as business succession, which is Think Tank. become increasingly important along with the aging of business 3. Business Plans Risk Appetite Policy Action Plans • Provide optimal solutions based on the risk appetite • Move One Think Tank solutions and technologies forward policies of the individual in-house companies and address through accelerating collaboration/fusion within our unit customer issues linked to increasing uncertainty • To support the growth of our customers, establish a new membership organization named “MIZUHO Membership One” that incorporates Mizuho’s present corporate membership system • Strengthen the unit’s overall capabilities through optimal allocation of management resources inside and outside the unit and, thereby, meet increasing needs for research and consulting 61 Mizuho Financial Group Our Strategies for Creating Value Research & Consulting Unit 2016 HIGHLIGHTS Equity Research Bond and FX Research Captured top position in Nikkei Veritas Analysts Rankings for 2017* Regained top position in Nikkei Veritas Bond and FX Analyst/Economist for the fourth consecutive year Ranking in 20171 for the first time in seven years 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 1 st MHSC 1 st Mizuho 2nd Nomura 2nd MUFG Group 3rd SMBC Nikko 3rd 2 Nomura 4th MUFG 4th SMFG/ Morgan Stanley Nikko Group 5th Daiwa 5th Securities Group Daiwa *Nikkei Veritas Analyst Popularity Ranking (Issued March 19, 2017) 1. Nikkei Veritas Bond and FX Analyst/Economist Popularity Poll (Issued March 26, 2017) 2. The No. 3 ranking from 2013 to 2015 held by BNP Paribas Securities Solutions that Support Sustainable Growth for Our Customers and Society Support for Developing Countries through Commercialization Presentation of a One Think Tank Forum as a Tokyo 2020 of Agricultural Business in Rwanda, Africa Nationwide Participation Program MHIR launched MIZUHO Global Agri–Innovation program to Mizuho is a Tokyo 2020 Gold Banking Partner and together with support Japanese agribusiness overseas. As its symbolic Nihon Keizai Shimbun, which is a Tokyo 2020 Official Partner in project, MHIR is undertaking the commercialization of gentian the newspapers category, held the “Mizuho One Think Tank & and sunflowers in Rwanda jointly with Toyota Motor and other Nikkei 2020 Forum.” This forum was the first Tokyo 2020 listed Japanese companies, universities, and government Nationwide Participation Program held by sponsoring companies ministries. This project has greatly contributed to creating a from the fields of economy and technology. Mizuho, together sustainable growth model for developing countries using with members of the Tokyo Organising Committee of the Japanese agricultural technology. Olympic and Paralympic Games, made keynote addresses, presenting the unique perspective of One Think Tank on the theme of how Japan should be moving forward in the coming years. Contributing to Increasing Service Value Added by Applying Contributing as a Pioneer in PPP/PFI Advisory Knowledge in Digital Technology MHRI has a proven track record of undertaking a broad range of MHIR is drawing on its strengths in digital technology to help its joint public-private sector projects, including airports, seaports, customers promote sophistication of marketing methods and water supply, and wastewater treatment facilities. In fiscal 2016, logistics systems. One example of this is the start-up of the MHRI received the mandate to provide advisory services for the world’s largest joint taxi dispatching service in a single city that privatization of the concession for Kumamoto Airport. In makes use of a common platform for realtime location tracking. rebuilding the airport, which had been damaged by a series of Using a smartphone application, this earthquakes in April 2016, MHRI played an advisory role in service matches user location and drafting the reconstruction plan and vehicle movement data to enable designing the concession scheme. the best vehicle distribution across The project served as a symbol of taxi companies. Kumamoto’s recovery from the disaster and contributed to the region’s economic recovery. 2017 Integrated Report 62 Our Strategies for Creating Value Increasing the Global Presence Enhancing Sector Coverage and Products, Becoming a Lead Bank in the US Mizuho’s wholesale business in the Americas saw a major expansion since the acquisition of the US loan portfolio from the Royal Bank of Scotland (RBS). The synergy effect with the RBS and the collaboration among banking, securities and trust functions have been the major advantage in winning underwriting, advisory and other value-added deals that bring in non-interest income. 2016 Established the US bank holding company, Mizuho Americas 2 1955 Nihon Kangyo Bank launched US operation 1956 The Dai-ichi Bank 2010 launched US operation Launched the Super 30 (later upgraded The Industrial Bank of Japan launched US operation to Global 300) strategy for global 2015 business Acquired the US loan portfolio of the ■ Number of First Tier Relationships with US Global 300 Corporate Customers Royal Bank of Scotland (RBS) 85 1 1953 15 Fuji Bank launched US operation Before RBS After RBS 1950 2016 63 Mizuho Financial Group Our Strategies for Creating Value Increasing the Global Presence 1 Investment Banking Platform Supercharged by the RBS Acquisition Mizuho’s 2015 acquisition of the majority * Initially launched in 2010 as “Super 30/50” strategy, where 30 to 50 blue-chip nonof the Royal Bank of Scotland (RBS)’s US Japanese company groups were selected from each of the four region outside Japan corporate and investment banking assets, (Americas, EMEA, East Asia and Asia & Oceania) for focused business development. The strategy was renamed “Global 300” strategy in 2016 and pursued as such since then. highlighted by a USD36.5 billion loan portfolio for approximately 200 customers and the addition of more than 130 personnel 9 US Investment-grade Bond Underwriting Ranking across customers coverage, capital markets, risk management, and operations, was a game-changer that significantly accelerated 15 Mizuho’s growth in the Americas region. Since 2010, Mizuho has been pursuing the focused business development strategy called Super 30/50 or Global 300*, building th (2014) th (2016) long-term relationship with selected non-Japanese corporate customers across the world. The synergy effect of the RBS integration has fundamentally changed Mizuho’s market position, ■ Non-interest Income in the Americas (USD millions) customer access, and product depth, pushing up the number of first■ Securities-related ■ Loan-related * MHBK managerial accounting, rounded figures tier relationships with existing customers and resulting in a significant ■ Derivatives, etc. 920 960 improvement in non-interest income. Mizuho will continue enhancing 760 its product capability across debt capital markets (DCM), loan capital 540 markets (LCM), foreign exchange (FX), and other important capital markets areas, promoting cross-sells with securitiesand derivativesrelated products, for greater profitability. FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 2 Accelerating Banking-Securities-Trust Collaboration under a Bank Holding Company Mizuho established a US bank holding integrated banking and securities functions, with syndicated finance Verizon company (BHC), Mizuho Americas in July capabilities as a starting point with customers. A case in point is the 2016. It has resulted in accelerated crosshigh-profile transaction with Verizon, a major US telecom company. entity linkages between banking, securities, Mizuho won the first active bookrunner mandate for Verizon among USD 6,150,000,000 and trust functions in the US, increasing Bank of America Merrill Lynch, Deutsche Bank, and Goldman efficiency and operational excellence by Senior Notes Sachs in July 2016. Its successful performance on the deal resulted optimizing resources and capital across in winning a subsequent mandate from the same customer as Active Bookrunner entities and expanding capacity to manage bookrunner on initial securitization transaction. risk and execute with speed and precision. July 2016 Furthermore, Mizuho is reorganizing its product functions and In the area of investment banking and improving business processes to better support its rapid business advisory, Mizuho has continued to expand strategic capital raising expansion. solutions in DCM, equity capital markets (ECM) and M&A through Focus Areas for Fiscal 2017 and Beyond For further expansion of Investment Banking & Advisory business, Mizuho will leverage its Corporate Finance Advisory and Solutions (CFAS) function in providing enhanced support to customers, focusing on sectors including Technology, Media and Telecom (TMT) and Healthcare. Moreover, it will continue to pursue cross-border M&A deals by leveraging its customer base in Asia, supporting US and multinational customers through all phases of the business investment cycle, including post-merger integration. For Global Markets business, it will fully integrate derivatives and FX business within markets and continue to expand Sales & Trading products lineup. 2017 Integrated Report 64 Foundations for Our Corporate Value Corporate Governance Mizuho’s Corporate Governance MHFG, as the group’s holding company, is taking continuing initiatives to realize “what we aim to be” with regard to our Board of Directors and corporate governance. To fulfill our social role and mission by giving due regard to creating value for shareholders and other stakeholders, realizing improved corporate value through continuous and stable corporate growth, and contributing to economic and industrial development and prosperity of society inside and outside of Japan, we have established our corporate governance system consisting with the Board of Directors at its core, and endeavor to further enhance our corporate governance. ■ Progress of Strengthening Corporate Governance First as a Japanese bank Introduced a full-scale in-house company system 2017 First as a Japanese Mega-bank 2016 T ransformation into a Company with Three Committees Disclosed Corporate Governance Guidelines 2015 First as a Japanese bank 2014 C  hairmen of the Board of Directors and the three legally required committees have become fully comprised of 2013 independent outside directors ¯ MHBK, MHTB, and MHSC have each become a Company with Audit and Supervisory Committee Establishing the group-wide collaboration among First as a Japanese bank 1999 banking, trust banking, and securities functions F iled the Corporate Governance Report in compliance with the C  ommencement of One Bank and One Corporate Governance Code First in Japan Securities Structure Disclosed the Policy Regarding Cross-holdings of Shares of Other Listed Companies and the Standards Regarding the Exercise of Voting A nnouncement of establishing a comprehensive Rights Associated with Cross-shareholding financial services group 65 Mizuho Financial Group Foundations for Our Corporate Value Corporate Governance Basic Policy regarding MHFG’s Corporate Governance System Ensuring the separation of supervision and management Effectiveness Secure the effectiveness of corporate governance by ensuring the separation of supervision and management and making supervision of the management such as the execution of duties, etc., by executive officers the primary focus of the Board of Directors Delegating decisions on business execution to the executive officers Speed Make it possible for the management to make swift and flexible decisions and realize expeditious corporate management by the Board of Directors’ delegating decisions on business execution to the executive officers Securing independence of management supervision Transparency Utilize committees, etc., comprising mainly outside directors who are independent from the management of Mizuho, and secure and Fairness transparency and fairness in decision-making processes regarding the appointment and dismissal of, and compensation for, the management as well as the effective supervision of the management Adopting global standards Global Establish a governance structure appropriate for a financial group expanding across the globe, by actively adopting operations and Perspective practices that are recommended at a global level Principal Features of MHFG’s Corporate Governance System Majority of the Board of Directors shall comprise non-executive directors In light of the role of the Board of Directors to supervise the management, the number of non-executive directors (outside directors and Composition of the internal non-executive directors) shall comprise a majority of the directors in the Board of Directors. Board of Directors Meanwhile, we appoint a sufficient number of internal directors for the purpose of ensuring quality, including expertise, in decision making and effective supervision by directors who are familiar with financial businesses and regulations as well as Mizuho’s business model. The Chairman of the Board of Directors shall, in principle, be an outside director. The Chairman of the Board of Directors shall, in principle, be an outside director (or at least a non-executive director) in light of the Chairman of the role of the Board of Directors to supervise the management. Board of Directors The Deputy Chairman of the Board of Directors shall be selected from among the internal non-executive directors and shall assist the Chairman in the performance of his or her duties. The members of the Nominating Committee and the Compensation Committee shall, in principle, all be outside directors. Composition of The Nominating Committee shall determine the contents of proposals regarding the appointment and dismissal of directors of MHFG to be submitted to the general meeting of shareholders, and shall exercise approval rights in MHFG with respect to the appointment and the Nominating dismissal of directors of each of the Core Subsidiaries*. The Compensation Committee shall determine the compensation for directors and Committee and executive officers of MHFG, exercise approval rights in MHFG for compensation for directors of the Core Subsidiaries. Compensation All members of both committees, including the Chairman, shall be appointed from among the outside directors (or at least non-executive Committee directors) to ensure objectivity and transparency in the process of appointment of, and compensation for, directors. *MHBK, MHTB, and MHSC Chairmen of the Nomination, The Chairmen of the Nominating, Compensation, and Audit Committees shall be outside directors. Compensation, and Audit Committees Compliance with the Corporate Governance Code The Corporate Governance Guidelines set out the fundamental perspectives regarding corporate governance in Mizuho, and the framework of the corporate governance system, including the roles, composition, and governing policies regarding the Board of Directors, executive officers, Nominating Committee, Compensation Committee, and Audit Committee for MHFG as a Company with Three Committees. In addition, the Corporate Governance Report, which sets out the status of the corporate governance system of MHFG, is submitted to the Tokyo Stock Exchange and displayed on the websites of that exchange and MHFG. Corporate Governance Guidelines https://www.mizuho-fg.com/company/structure/governance/pdf/g_guideline.pdf Corporate Governance Report https://www.mizuho-fg.com/company/structure/governance/pdf/g_report.pdf 2017 Integrated Report 66 Foundations for Our Corporate Value Corporate Governance Corporate Governance System We have adopted a Company with Three Committees with the belief that, under the current legal system, a Company with Three Committees is the most effective as a system to realize the basic policy regarding MHFG’s corporate governance system. Composition of the Board of General Meeting of Shareholders Directors Non-executive directors shall comprise a majority of Su per v i s i on Determines the contents of proposals regarding Appointment of Directors the appointment and dismissal of directors the directors in the Board of Directors. Determines the contents of proposals for Board of Directors general meetings of shareholders regarding Chairman of the Board of Nominating Chairman the appointment and dismissal of directors Directors Committee *All members, in principle, Outside directors: shall be outside directors. The Chairman shall, in principle, Chairman Determines be an outside director. the compensation Determines the compensation for each Compensation Chairman individual director and executive officer Internal non-executive Composition of the Nominating Committee *All members, in principle, directors: shall be outside directors. Committee and Compensation Committee Internal directors who Human Resources concurrently serve as Review Meeting In principle, all members shall executive officers: be appointed from among the Audits the execution Audits the legality and appropriateness *The Chairman shall, in principle, of duties of the execution of duties by directors outside directors. be an outside director. Audit Chairman and executive officers *Non-executive directors shall comprise Committee *Majority of members shall a majority of the directors. be outside directors Chairmen of the Nominating Committee, Compensation Outside Director Session Risk Committee Committee, and Audit Committee Appoints and dismisses executive officers The Chairmen of the Nominating, Delegates decisions on business execution Audits the execution of Determines the compensation Compensation, and Audit Supervises the execution of duties duties by executive officers for executive officers Committees shall be outside directors. President & Group CEO M an agem en t Executive Officers Makes decisions on business execution, based on delegation from the Board of Directors, and implements business execution Directors F  or MHFG’s Overview of Independence Standards of Appointment of Directors Outside Directors, please refer to our website. In the course of appointing directors who compliance with laws and regulations, crisis concurrently serve as executive officers, candidates management, financial accounting, internal h ttps://www.mizuho-fg.com/ to be appointed as directors are personnel who control, macroeconomic policy (including finance company/structure/governance/pdf/ satisfy matters such as the appointment policy set and industry), organizational and cultural reform, o_director.pdf out by the Nominating Committee, and executive or global management. officers such as the Group CEO and others who (2) The candidate has the ability to get an overview have been delegated the duties (CFO, CRO, CCO, and understanding of the overall management of CSO, etc.) to carry out checks and balances with Mizuho, the ability to grasp essential issues and respect to the management. risks, and the ability to appropriately interview Each candidate to be appointed as an outside management and express opinions to and director must satisfy the following in order to fully persuade management, etc. exert his or her supervisory function. (3) It is recognized that the candidate is independent (1) The candidate has deep insight and knowledge from management of the group in light of the and extensive experience in areas such as Independence Standards of Outside Directors of corporate management, risk management, MHFG. 67 Mizuho Financial Group Foundations for Our Corporate Value Corporate Governance Outside Directors and take efforts to be informed of the management environment and the state of business surrounding our group. We provide our directors on a continuing basis with opportunities to acquire and improve ■ Outside directors and reason for appointment as an outside director knowledge that is necessary to fulfill their expected roles and duties. Name Reason for appointment as an outside director In particular, for outside directors to fully fulfill their functions, Expected to contribute to, among others, (i) strengthening the each outside director is offered opportunities to acquire the necessary effectiveness of both the decision-making and supervisory functions knowledge about our group’s business, finance, and organizational Tetsuo Seki of MHFG’s Board of Directors and (ii) MHFG’s effort to further enhance internal control systems and group governance, leveraging his extensive structure at the time of appointment and continuously thereafter. experience and deep insight as a top executive, etc. Expected to contribute to, among others, (i) strengthening the effectiveness ■ Opportunities to acquire and improve knowledge for outside directors of both the decision-making and supervisory functions of MHFG’s Board of Takashi Kawamura Directors and (ii) MHFG’s effort to enhance group governance, leveraging his extensive experience and deep insight as a top executive who has At the time of appointment implemented bold management and governance reforms. Intensive explanations at the time of appointment will be conducted individually for each newly appointed outside director. Expected to contribute to, among others, (i) strengthening the effectiveness of both the decision-making and supervisory functions ¯ Explanations from executive officers in charge, the Deputy Chairman of the Board of of MHFG’s Board of Directors and (ii) the further enhancement of the Directors, and the General Manager of the Corporate Secretariat on corporate identity, Tatsuo Kainaka business contents, business strategy, medium-term business plan, annual business corporate governance, compliance, and crisis management system of MHFG, leveraging his extensive experience, deep insight, and high level plan, organizational structure/authorities, finance, risk/compliance management, of expertise as a prosecutor, judge, and attorney-at-law. human resources, IT systems/operation, internal audits, governance system, etc. Expected to contribute to, among others, strengthening the effectiveness of both the decision-making and supervisory functions of MHFG’s Board Hirotake Abe of Directors, leveraging his extensive experience, deep insight, and high level of expertise as a certified public accountant. Post-appointment (shown below are examples conducted for fiscal 2016) Expected to contribute to, among others, strengthening the effectiveness ‌ Visits to domestic departments and branches of the Core Subsidiaries as well as the of both the decision-making and supervisory functions of MHFG’s Board Kansai operation center of Directors, leveraging her extensive experience, deep insight, and high ‌Outside Director Session level of expertise as a university professor and a Minister of State for ‌ Hiroko Ota Economic and Fiscal Policy of the Cabinet Office, which includes the ¯ Discuss management issues, operations of the Board of Directors, the current state ability to see things from a macroeconomic perspective (e.g., from a of the governance structure, etc. public policy and economic policy perspective) as well as a high level of Off-site meetings on management issues awareness of the problems that must be resolved for the revival of the ‌ ¯ Enable a deeper mutual understanding with outside directors through free Japanese economy. discussions with head of in-house companies as well as President & CEOs of the Expected to contribute to, among others, strengthening the effectiveness Core Subsidiaries (newly established in fiscal 2016) of both the decision-making and supervisory functions of MHFG’s Board Lunches following the Board of Directors meetings Izumi Kobayashi of Directors, leveraging her extensive experience and deep insight as a ‌‌ ¯ Help outside directors to obtain necessary knowledge through exchanging top executive in Japan and overseas. information with internal and external specialists and authorities, the sharing of IRrelated information, etc. Executive reception (dinner) Director Training ¯ ‌‌‌Help outside directors to deepen their understanding towards the management team Attendance at meeting of the General Managers of the Core Subsidiaries In order to fulfill their roles in the monitoring and advising functions of Thorough explanations of proposals prior to the Board of Directors’ meetings and implementation of follow-up (after each meeting) the Board of Directors, our directors proactively gather information 2017 Integrated Report 68 Foundations for Our Corporate Value Corporate Governance Board of Directors Composition of the Board of Directors 6 outside 5 directors directors who concurrently serve as executive officers 7 internal directors Yasuhiro Sato Takanori Nishiyama Koichi Iida Member of the Board of Directors, Member of the Board of Directors, Member of the Board of Directors, President & Group CEO Managing Executive Officer / Managing Executive Officer / (Representative Executive Officer) Head of Compliance Group (Group CCO) Head of Strategic Planning Group (Group CSO) 2003 Executive Officer / Senior Corporate 2012 General Manager of Branch Banking 2012 General Manager of Corporate Banking 8 non-executive directors Officer of International Banking Unit of Division No.5 of MHBK 2014 Executive Division No.10 of MHCB, Head of Corporate MHCB 2004 Managing Executive Officer / In Officer / General Manager of Omiya Coverage Department I of MHSC 2013 charge of business promotion 2006 Executive Branch 2015 Managing Executive Officer / In General Manager of Corporate Banking Managing Director / Head of Corporate charge of Corporate Banking 2016 Managing Division No.10 of MHBK (Note) 2015 Executive Area of expertise of outside directors Banking Unit 2007 Deputy President / Executive Officer / In charge of Banking 2017 Officer / General Manager of Corporate Chief Auditor 2009 President & CEO of Member of the Board of Directors, Managing Banking Division No.10 2016 Member of the 3 MHCB, Member of the Board of Directors Executive Officer / Head of Compliance Group Board of Directors, Managing Executive Officer of MHFG 2011 Member of the Board of of MHFG (current) Executive Managing / Head of Financial Control & Accounting Directors of MHBK, President & Group CEO of Director / Head of Compliance Group of MHBK Group of MHFG Executive Managing Director directors MHFG 2013 President & CEO of MHBK (Note) (current) / Head of Financial Control & Accounting Management 2014 Member of the Board of Directors Group of MHBK 2017 Member of the Board (current) Member of the Board of Directors of Directors, Managing Executive Officer / 1 of MHTB (current) Member of the Board of Head of Strategic Planning Group of MHFG Directors of MHSC (current) 2014 Member of (current) Executive Managing Director / Head the Board of Directors, President & Group CEO of Strategic Planning Group of MHBK (current) director of MHFG (current) Law 1 director Finance/accounting 1 director Economic and fiscal policy Tetsuo Seki Takashi Kawamura Tatsuo Kainaka Tenure of office of directors Outside director Outside director Outside director Member of the Nominating Committee / Member of the Nominating Committee Member of the Nominating Committee / Member of the Compensation Committee / (Chairman) / Member of the Compensation Member of the Compensation Committee 0-3 years 7 directors Member of the Audit Committee (Chairman) Committee (Chairman) / Member of the Audit Committee 3-6 years 5 directors 1963 Joined Yawata Iron & Steel 1993 1962 Joined Hitachi 1995 Director 1997 1966 Appointed as Public Prosecutor 2002 6 or more years 1 director Director of Nippon Steel 1997 Managing Executive Managing Director 1999 Superintending Prosecutor of the Tokyo High Director 2000 Representative Director Executive Vice President and Representative Public Prosecutors Office, Justice of the and Executive Vice President 2003 Director 2003 Chairman of the Board and Supreme Court 2010 Admitted to the Tokyo Executive Advisor 2004 Senior Corporate Representative Executive Officer, Hitachi Bar Association Joined Takusyou Sogo Law Auditor 2006 Independent Director of Software Engineering 2005 Chairman Office (current) 2011 President of the Life Terumo 2007 Outside Director of Sapporo of the Board, Hitachi Plant Engineering & Insurance Policyholders Protection Corporation Holdings, Outside Director of Tokyo Financial Construction 2006 Chairman of the Board, of Japan (current) 2012 Corporate Auditor Exchange, Chairperson of the Japan Hitachi Software Engineering 2007 Chairman of (External) of Oriental Land (current) 2013 Corporate Auditors Association, Outside the Board, Hitachi Maxell 2009 Representative Member of the Board of Directors (Outside Director of Japan Post Holdings 2008 Executive Officer, Chairman, President and Chief Director) of MHBK 2014 Member of the Executive Advisor to Nippon Steel, President Executive Officer and Director, Hitachi 2010 Board of Directors (Outside Director) of MHFG (Representative Director) of the Shoko Chukin Representative Executive Officer, Chairman and (current) Bank 2013 General Advisor of the Shoko Director 2011 Chairman of the Board 2014 Chukin Bank (current) 2015 Member of the Director of Hitachi, Member of the Board Board of Directors (Outside Director) of MHFG of Directors (Outside Director) of MHFG (current) 2016 Audit & Supervisory Board (current) 2016 Outside Audit & Supervisory Member of Sapporo Holdings (current) Board Member of Nikkei (current) 2017 Chairman of the Board of Directors (Outside Director) of Tokyo Electric Power (current) 69 Mizuho Financial Group Foundations for Our Corporate Value Corporate Governance Makoto Umemiya Yasuyuki Shibata Ryusuke Aya Nobukatsu Funaki Member of the Board of Directors, Member of the Board of Directors, Member of the Board of Directors Member of the Board of Directors Managing Executive Officer / Managing Executive Officer / Deputy Chairman of the Board of Directors Member of the Audit Committee Head of Financial Control & Accounting Group Head of Risk Management Group (Group CRO) Member of the Audit Committee / (Group CFO) Member of the Risk Committee (Chairman) 2012 General Manager of Osaka Branch 2011 General Manager of Hong Kong Treasury 2012 Executive Officer / General Manager of 2010 Audit & Supervisory Board Member of of MHBK 2014 General Manager of Department of MHCB 2013 General Manager Risk Management Division of MHFG Executive MHCB 2013 Audit & Supervisory Board Financial Planning Division of MHFG General of Hong Kong Treasury Department of Officer / General Manager of Risk Management Member (Outside Member) of MHSC, Audit & Manager of Financial Planning Division of MHBK (Note) 2014 General Manager of Division of MHBK Executive Officer / General Supervisory Board Member of MHFG 2014 MHBK 2015 Executive Officer / General Americas Treasury Division 2015 Executive Manager of Risk Management Division of Member of the Board of Directors of MHFG Manager of Financial Planning Department Officer / General Manager of Americas Treasury MHCB 2013 Managing Executive Officer / (current) of MHFG Executive Officer / General Division 2016 Executive Officer / General Head of Risk Management Group of MHFG Manager of Financial Planning Department Manager of Risk Management Department Managing Executive Officer / Head of Risk of MHBK 2017 Member of the Board of of MHFG Executive Officer / General Management Group of MHBK Managing Directors, Managing Executive Officer / Head Manager of Risk Management Department Executive Officer / In charge of Risk Management of Financial Control & Accounting Group of of MHBK 2017 Member of the Board of Group of MHTB Managing Executive Officer MHFG (current) Executive Managing Director / Directors, Managing Executive Officer / Head / In charge of Risk Management Group Head of Financial Control & Accounting Group of Risk Management Group of MHFG (current) of MHSC 2014 Member of the Board of of MHBK (current) Executive Managing Director / Head of Risk Directors, Managing Executive Officer / Head of Management Group of MHBK (current) Risk Management Group of MHFG Executive Managing Director / Head of Risk Management Group of MHBK 2017 Member of the Board of Directors of MHFG (current) Member of the Board of Directors (Audit & Supervisory Committee Member) of MHBK (current) Hirotake Abe Hiroko Ota Izumi Kobayashi Outside director Outside director Outside director Member of the Compensation Committee / Chairman of the Board of Directors / Member of the Nominating Committee / Member of the Audit Committee Member of the Nominating Committee Member of the Risk Committee : Internal director 1970 Joined Tohmatsu Awoki 1985 1996 Associate Professor, the Graduate School 1981 Joined Mitsubishi Chemical Industries : Outside director Temporarily transferred to Deloitte & Touche of Policy Science, Saitama University 1997 (currently Mitsubishi Chemical) 1985 New York Office 1990 Senior Partner Associate Professor, National Graduate Institute Joined Merrill Lynch Futures Japan 2001 : Director who concurrently serves of Tohmatsu & Co. 2001 CEO 2004 for Policy Studies 2001 Professor, National President and Representative Director, Merrill as executive officers Executive Member of Deloitte Touche Graduate Institute for Policy Studies 2002 Lynch Japan Securities 2002 Outside : Non-executive director Tohmatsu 2007 Senior Adviser of Deloitte Director for Economic Research, Cabinet Director, Osaka Securities Exchange 2008 Touche Tohmatsu 2010 Established the Office 2003 Deputy Director General for Executive Vice President, the Multilateral Certified Public Accountant Hirotake Abe Economic Research, Cabinet Office 2004 Investment Guarantee Agency, the World MHCB: Mizuho Corporate Bank Office (current) Outside Corporate Auditor Director General for Economic Research, Bank Group 2013 Outside Director, ANA of CONEXIO (current) Visiting Professor, Cabinet Office 2005 Professor, National HOLDINGS (current), Outside Director, Suntory Note: The former MHBK and the former Chuo Graduate School of International Graduate Institute for Policy Studies 2006 Holdings 2014 Outside Director, Mitsui & MHCB conducted a merger on Accounting 2011 Outside Corporate Auditor Minister of State for Economic and Fiscal Co. (current), Member of the Risk Committee July 1, 2013, whereby the former of Honda Motor 2012 Outside Audit and Policy 2008 Professor, National Graduate of MHFG (Outside Expert) 2015 Vice MHCB was the surviving company Supervisory Board Member of NIPPON STEEL Institute for Policy Studies (current) 2009 Chairperson, Japan Association of Corporate in an absorption-type merger, and & SUMITOMO METAL 2015 Member of the Vice-President, National Graduate Institute for Executives (current) 2016 Member of the the former MHCB changed its Board of Directors (Outside Director) of MHFG Policy Studies 2012 Outside Director of JXTG Board of Governors, Japan Broadcasting trade name to MHBK. (current) Holdings (current) 2013 Outside Director of Corporation (current) 2017 Member of the Panasonic (current) 2014 Member of the Board of Directors (Outside Director) of MHFG Board of Directors (Outside Director) of MHFG (current) (current) 2017 Integrated Report 70 Foundations for Our Corporate Value Corporate Governance Operation of the Board of Directors and Each Committee Board of Directors Nominating Committee The Nominating Committee comprises mainly outside directors who are sufficiently independent from the management of the group, and The main roles of the Board of Directors are making decisions the role of the Nominating Committee is ensuring objectivity and on business execution such as the basic management policy, transparency in executive appointments. Regarding appointment of which are matters to be determined solely by the Board of MHFG’s directors, the Core Subsidiaries’ directors and other related Directors under laws and regulations, and supervising the issues, the President & Group CEO drafts proposals in accordance execution of duties by directors and executive officers as with the Nominating Committee Chairman’s instructions, and the defined in the Companies Act. The Board of Directors has Nominating Committee engages in repeated deliberations regarding delegated decision making, in principle, to the President & those proposals. During this process, the Human Resources Review Group CEO for matters other than those to be determined Meeting, which consists of the President & Group CEO and outside Main roles solely by the Board of Directors under laws and regulations. directors who serve as members of the Nominating Committee The Chairman of the Board of Directors plays a central role and the Compensation Committee, undertake deliberations based in narrowing down the agendas to concentrate on truly on consideration of objective indicators of external evaluations, necessary proposals and, regarding proposals associated with specialized expertise gained through work experience and other core management issues, the Board of Directors promotes factors. They also undertake such measures as those to ensure comprehensive discussions of essential points in a free and opportunities to obtain information from individual personal vigorous manner with the inclusion of high-quality opinions and interviews and reports presented by executive officers to the Board suggestions from outside directors. of Directors. Through these activities, the Committee ensures effectiveness of a highly transparent process mainly handled by outside directors to determine executive appointments. • The Chairman shall, in principle, be an outside director. • The Chairman shall be an outside director. Composition • Majority of the Board of Directors shall comprise non• The members shall all be outside directors. executive directors. The Board of Directors held 13 meetings during fiscal 2016 and had high-quality discussions regarding changing Mizuho’s revenue structure through the introduction of the inhouse company system, business portfolio, reforming the The Committee held 12 meetings in fiscal 2016 and, among others, cost structure, branch strategy, the head office reform, etc. decided on the candidates for directors of MHFG and approved Operation In addition, to realize such objectives as providing directors the selection of directors and representative directors of the Core with a good understanding of the overall management from a Subsidiaries. wide perspective, the Board of Directors received reports on such topics as the execution of priority strategies, business performances, and other important issues. Number of meetings in fiscal 13 meetings (100%) 12 meetings (100%) 2016 (average attendance) In the preparation of the fiscal 2017 business plan, Board of Directors’ discussions were held from an early stage and directors were deeply involved in each process. The executive officers and outside directors collaborated on preparation of the basic strategy framework embodied in the basic management policies. December Reflected opinions of January Reflected opinions of February Reflected opinions of March outside directors outside directors outside directors Macro-environment Group-wide fundamental Basic policy of Business plan decisions perspectives individual companies Key management issues Discussed awareness of issues as As the group-wide fundamental As the fundamental perspectives President & Group CEO and shared perspectives, discussed basic of individual companies, discussed major points of contention and policies, priority strategies that should each company’s annual operating thoughts on the directions to be taken be formulated by management, etc. policy, profit plan, etc. 71 Mizuho Financial Group Foundations for Our Corporate Value Corporate Governance Compensation Committee Audit Committee The Compensation Committee comprises mainly outside directors who are sufficiently independent from the The main roles of the Audit Committee are auditing the legality management of the group, and the role of the Compensation and appropriateness of the execution of duties by directors and Human Resources Review Committee is to ensure objectivity and transparency in executive officers as defined in the Companies Act. Regarding executive compensation. Through a highly transparent and items necessary for auditing the execution of duties by directors Meeting objective review process mainly handled by outside directors, and executive officers as defined in the Companies Act, the We established the Human the Compensation Committee determines the compensation Audit Committee obtains timely and appropriate reports and Resources Review Meeting for each individual director and executive officer as defined in explanations from directors, executive officers as defined in that consists of the President & the Companies Act of MHFG, exercises the approval rights the Companies Act, employees, and the independent auditor Group CEO and outside directors held by MHFG regarding compensation of each individual (“Directors, etc.”) and gives instructions and recommendations who serve as members of the director of the Core Subsidiaries, and determines the basic when necessary. In addition, the Audit Committee ensures Nominating Committee and policy and executive compensation system for MHFG the effectiveness of its audits by confirming the processes Compensation Committee as and the Core Subsidiaries. Considering such factors as and contents of decision making by the business execution MHFG’s mediumto long-term business performance and departments through measures by the full-time Audit Committee a deliberative body that mainly examples of other companies including those in the same members such as arranging for the attendance at important conducts the deliberation of industry as well as economic and social circumstances, the meetings held by the business execution departments, examining proposals to appoint executive Compensation Committee engages in repeated deliberations important decision-related documents, obtaining reports from officers as defined in the regarding the compensation system based on the role and Directors, etc., and coordinating operations with the Internal Audit Companies Act, and executive responsibility assigned to each officer, and gives necessary Group and other group units. officers as defined in our internal revision. regulations with titles of MHFG, and executive officers as defined in • The Chairman shall be an outside director. • The Chairman shall be an outside director. our internal regulations with the title • The members shall all be outside directors. • Majority of the Audit Committee shall comprise outside directors. of Core Subsidiaries. Risk Committee We established the Risk Committee The Committee held 13 meetings in fiscal 2016 and revised In fiscal 2016, the Audit Committee held 18 meetings and that in principle fully consists of the executive compensation system for MHFG and the determined, in addition to the formulation of an auditing plan, non-executive directors or external Core Subsidiaries based on the introduction of the in-house such matters as approvals on the basic internal auditing plan experts as an advisory body that company system and other factors. Among others, the and the entrustment to the Head of the Internal Audit Group. Committee also decided on the compensation of individual mainly advises the Board of It also confirmed such matters as the circumstances regarding directors and executive officers as defined in the Companies Directors with respect to the the execution of duties by directors and by executive officers as Act of MHFG and approved the compensation of individual determination and the supervision defined in the Companies Act. directors of the Core Subsidiaries. regarding risk governance, as well as the supervision of the status of risk management, etc. 13 meetings (100%) 18 meetings (98.8%) Outside Director Session In order to deepen outside directors’ understanding of Mizuho and reflect their frank outsider’s perspective opinions in our overall management to the maximum extent, we hold an Outside Director Session at least once a year where only outside directors ▲ Compensation Policy attend to discuss management issues, operations of the Board of MHFG sets out the Mizuho Financial Group management with consideration to value creation Directors, the current state of the Compensation Policy concerning the determination for various stakeholders and improve corporate government structure, etc. of compensation for each individual director, value through continuous and stable corporate executive officer, and specialist officer (“Directors, growth based on our basic management policies etc.”) of MHFG as well as the Core Subsidiaries. under our Corporate Identity. Executive compensation for MHFG and the Core Subsidiaries pursuant to such policy aims Compensation policy to function as incentive and compensation for https://www.mizuho-fg.com/company/structure/ each officer to exercise the designated function governance/pdf/compensation.pdf to the fullest with respect to striving to realize 2017 Integrated Report 72 Foundations for Our Corporate Value Corporate Governance Evaluating the Effectiveness of the Board of Directors As a front runner in the area of corporate governance, Mizuho is aiming to increase its corporate value through pursuing “growth-oriented” governance reforms designed to foster “earning potential.” In order to confirm the progress and results of the reforms and to identify issues to be addressed going forward, we conduct the evaluation of the effectiveness of the Board of Directors as a whole. For fiscal 2016, an interim evaluation was made at an Outside Director Session where only outside directors attended; a third-party institutional evaluator provided a Third-Party Evaluation; and, based on the interim evaluation and the Third-Party Evaluation, a selfevaluation was made and issues to be addressed as well as measures to be taken going forward were discussed in order to secure the effectiveness of the Board of Directors. Outline of the Evaluation Efforts Going Forward Response to the issues recognized in fiscal 2015 In line with the increased sophistication of corporate governance, it It was confirmed that improvements were seen in issues identified in was recognized that further issues can be addressed, and we will the previous fiscal year’s evaluation and that, going forward, continual continue to make further efforts on the following points: efforts are being taken to address the remaining issues as follows. (1) Strengthening the mechanisms that support the increased (1) To further make deliberations at the Board of Directors’ meetings sophistication level of corporate governance more fulfilling and efficient (2) Taking further measures to help the management to take advantage • There has been greater substantiation of discussions at Board of implications from the enhanced supervision of Directors’ meetings, as a result of measures for refinement of (3) Undertaking further enhancement of operations of the Board of strategic proposals, clarification of issues raised in documents, and a Directors’ meetings and Audit Committee meetings reduction of the time for proposal explanations. Based on this evaluation of effectiveness, we will further consider and • We have recognized that, going forward, it is necessary to explain devise additional necessary measures to maximize the supervisory proposals in ways to encourage discussions and to take further functions of the Board of Directors. measures supporting more in-depth discussions. (2) To further utilize outside directors’ insights and to reflect them on business execution E  valuation Method regarding the Evaluation of the • We utilized newly established Off-site Meetings on Management Effectiveness of the Board of Directors for Fiscal 2016 Issues* as settings to provide information to outside directors and The Board of Directors conducted self-evaluation through the achieve mutual understanding. following procedure: • We have recognized that it is necessary to take further measures to (1) The interim evaluation was made in December 2016 at an achieve mutual understanding between supervision and execution. Outside Director Session where only outside directors attended; (3) To agree on how the Board of Directors should be engaged in (2) Utilizing the experience of a third-party institutional evaluator dialogue with stakeholders with extensive knowledge of financial institutions and corporate • It was confirmed that there were deeper discussions regarding governance, a Third-Party Evaluation was made, based on individual interviews given to all directors after they answered the distribution of surplus and the use of voting rights, as well as a questionnaires, as well as interviews with heads of in-house strengthening of information disclosed and dialogue with investors. companies, the Corporate Secretariat supporting the Board of Summary Directors and the Audit Committee office; and (3) The Board of Directors in the April and May 2017 meetings took With regard to the Board of Directors and corporate governance, it into account the interim evaluation and the Third-Party Evaluation was confirmed that “what we (Mizuho) aim to be” was largely realized mentioned above, and discussed issues to be addressed and that the present condition of corporate governance is generally regarding ensuring the effectiveness of the Board of Directors and good. Corporate governance has become even more sophisticated measures to be taken going forward. than before, there have been more active discussions of the topic than before, and various schemes have been implemented to * Meetings to enable a deeper mutual understanding with outside directors through advance corporate governance. Based on this, the effectiveness of free discussions with heads of in-house companies as well as the CEOs of the Core the Board of Directors as a whole has accordingly been secured and Subsidiaries there have been improvements from fiscal 2015. 73 Mizuho Financial Group Foundations for Our Corporate Value Corporate Governance Message from the Chairman of the Board of Directors As a front-runner in the area of corporate governance, Mizuho is aiming to increase its corporate value through pursuing “growth-oriented” governance reforms designed to foster “earning potential.” Chairman of the Board of Directors Hiroko Ota maintains close contact with outside directors. Going forward, I How the Board of Directors Meetings Are Operated will work together with the Board members to make the Board of Directors what it aims to be. Mizuho began the full-scale corporate governance reforms in fiscal 2014 and for the past three years, MHFG’s internal and outside directors have worked together with strong resolve to implement Issues to Be Addressed Going Forward governance reform. The group is steadily changing. In fiscal 2016, the Board of Directors held 13 meetings in total and held The essential issue for Mizuho going forward is strengthening comprehensive discussions on strengthening the group’s profitability, profitability. Our governance reforms can be said to have been such as clarification of its business portfolio, cost structure reform, successful only when we achieve a substantial increase in profitability. and branch strategy, while adopting diverse perspectives of outside While we are taking steps for clarification of the business portfolio directors. and branch strategies, more thorough implementation of productivity improvements, and cost structure reforms are necessary. In addition, the human resource management reform that we are currently As the Chairman of the Board of Directors undertaking is one of our most important challenges. Under the group’s traditional human resource management, personnel are The biggest role of the Chairman of the Board of Directors is to selected according to the year-group of entering the company make discussions livelier and more productive at the meetings. It is based on the evaluations they have accumulated since joining the necessary to narrow down the matters to be discussed to ensure that organization, and there are concerns that personnel may be marked enough time can be devoted to the items on the agenda, and clarify down disproportionately for the mistakes they have made. It will take the issues to be discussed on the matters to ensure substantive time to implement these changes, which aim to break away from discussions. To do this, it is also necessary to make sure that concise the seniority and point-deduction system, and allow all employees and well-prepared materials are submitted, and I work with the to demonstrate their ability. However, I believe that such efforts will Corporate Secretariat to prepare these documents in advance. deeply instill governance reform throughout the group, and make I feel it is important for effective governance that an outside Mizuho a strong organization where its members communicate director serves as Chairman of the Board. I set the agenda from openly and vigorously to create value. an outsider’s perspective, and this makes it possible to conduct Fiscal 2017 is the second year of the medium-term business persuasive discussions. On the other hand, it is important that plan. The results of the introduction of the in-house company company information is properly communicated to the outside system will be evaluated this year. I would like to operate the Board directors. Unless information is shared with outside directors, the of Directors in a manner in which outside directors and management directors cannot perform their role properly. Mizuho supports this will share a sense of crisis and expeditiousness. through the Corporate Secretariat, a specialized department that 2017 Integrated Report 74 Foundations for Our Corporate Value Risk Governance Risk Governance Overview Risk governance is a part of Mizuho’s corporate governance framework, centered on its risk appetite framework (RAF). The Board of Directors determines fundamental matters regarding the RAF, along with its management systems and specific risk appetites, and documents them as a risk appetite statement (RAS). Mizuho also works to foster and promote a sound risk culture to support the risk governance framework. To ensure strong risk governance, we maintain a risk management and compliance structure that operates in accordance with the principles of the “three lines of defense.” Risk Appetite Framework (RAF) The purpose of our RAF is to (1) maximize our corporate value return. Specifically, we will further concretely define our risk appetite by securing sustainable and stable profits and (2) fulfill our social in establishing our medium-term and fiscal year business plans. The responsibilities. Based on such purpose, our core risk appetite is to take risk appetite will be the basis for establishing our business strategy, appropriate risk and provide solutions based on our customers’ actual resource allocation, and budget, thus integrating risk management, needs, establishing our competitive advantage against our peers. business strategy, and profits in order to maximize our risk-return. MHFG has positioned the RAF as the management control framework to support optimization of orderly risk-taking and risk/ Formulation and Monitoring of Risk Appetite Mizuho’s risk appetite consists of a risk appetite policy that serves metrics are expressed in terms of capital strength, profitability, and as the fundamental policy regarding our risk-taking activities and risk liquidity utilizing measures such as CET1 Capital Ratio, ROE, and appetite metrics that serve as means of quantifying the level of riskLCR. taking based on the risk appetite policy. Further, the risk appetite for the entire group is shared with Risk appetite is determined through management discussions the in-house companies that implement strategies, to ensure the on the outlook for external factors such as the macroeconomic, effectiveness of the RAF. The in-house companies formulate individual regulatory, and competitive environments, along with potential risk risk appetite policies to implement the group’s overall policy, and set events such as economic slowdown and turbulence in financial risk appetite metrics and levels to meet the overall metrics and levels. markets. These are then incorporated into main and risk scenarios Monitoring of the operational status for the established risk that are shared internally. appetite is conducted on a quarterly basis and as necessary. This We then formulate a group-wide risk appetite policy based monitoring enables timely and appropriate actions, including flexible on our awareness of these external environments, create specific revisions to our risk appetite and strategies, to be discussed and strategies and measures according to this policy and determine carried out in the event of environmental changes that increase risk or corporate resource allocation and profit plans. Our risk appetite impede our risk appetite and strategies. Mizuho’s RAF Control Structure Supervision Management Board of Directors President & Group CEO Management Committee • Determines basic matters regarding RAF and Management Governance Enhancement Committee [Chairman: Group CEO] RAS • Formulates risk appetite policy • Conducts business operations consistent • Supervises business execution by the • Establishes risk appetite metrics/level with the risk appetite management based on the above determinations • Formulates RAS • Embeds a sound risk culture in each line Audit Committee of business • Audits the execution of duties by the directors Risk Management Committee [Chairman: Group CRO1] and the management regarding RAF • Monitors the operation of RAF Risk Committee Balance Sheet Management Committee [Chairman: Group CFO2] • Advises the Board of Directors and makes • Formulates and promotes balance sheet management-centered strategies related to proposals to the management regarding risk risk control and risk taking governance 1. Head of Risk Management Group 2. Head of Financial Control & Accounting Group 75 Mizuho Financial Group Foundations for Our Corporate Value Risk Governance Verification of Risk Appetite by Stress Testing Our group assesses the suitability of our risk appetite and the standards, we consider and revise our risk appetite and business validity of our business plans through stress testing that calculates plans. and assesses the financial effect of the main and risk scenarios we Our stress testing also serves as a foundation for understanding determined have on our capital ratio and business results. The results the characteristics of our business portfolio and enables planning are analyzed and verified to confirm the outlook for capital ratio and in advance about the course of action that should be taken if the business results under the main scenario. We also confirm that the risk scenario occurs, and is conducted regularly to enhance our risk necessary capital ratio and results can be secured should the management capabilities. risk scenario occur, and, in the event that they fall below necessary Risk Culture Mizuho fosters a sound risk culture in which all directors and employees an attitude of not just avoiding risks, but taking the risks they should. maintain a high level of awareness regarding risk, and endeavor to These guidelines provide a foundation for the appropriate values and make proper judgements and take appropriate actions rooted in good courses of action for Mizuho’s executive officers and employees to sense and ethical standards. Such judgements and actions allow us to take when approaching risks, to which they can refer when they are achieve our risk appetite and enhance our corporate value. unsure of a judgement that needs to be made in their daily work. Mizuho has established the Behavioral Guidelines for a Sound Putting these guidelines into practice improves our ability to address Risk Culture, and works to instill its principles in executive officers and counter risks, and fosters a sound risk culture. and employees through training sessions and other measures. These initiatives are also important from the standpoint of For Mizuho to put the “Customer First” principle into practice and internal control, ultimately helping to prevent inappropriate behavior enhance our corporate value, it is essential that all members maintain by executive officers and employees. Three Lines of Defense Our group, in accordance with the “three lines of defense” approach with an independent third line of internal auditing of the first and in the Corporate Governance Principles for Banks released by the second lines. In addition, MHFG sets group strategies and allocates Basel Committee on Banking Supervision, ensures appropriate and management resources, monitoring the autonomous controls in the effective risk governance through a check-and-balance system with first line at core group companies in order to strengthen the system autonomous controls (first line) and monitoring (second line), along providing appropriate responses. Mizuho’s Definition of the Three Lines of Defense Mizuho’s Risk Management and Compliance Framework Autonomous Control Function MHFG Core group companies* The first line-of-defense conducts daily operations based on the Basic policies rules, procedures, and risk appetite, and has a primary responsibility Third line Internal Audit Group Third line Internal Audit Group First line Submit/report for risks and compliance matters (hereinafter, “risks, etc.”) accomInternal Internal panying the conduct of business as a risk owner, and for performing audit audit autonomous control activities (to identify, assess, and manage/conD  epartment(s) in D  epartment(s) in trol risks, etc.). Second line Second line charge of risk Internal Basic policies charge of risk Internal management/ audit Submit/report management/ audit Risk Management and Compliance Function compliance compliance Second line The second line-of-defense oversees (monitors), measures, and assesses the first line’s autonomous control activities for risk manMonitoring Monitoring agement and compliance, and is responsible for establishing and Report regarding the implementing basic policies for risk management and compliance. Companies/units first line-of-defense Divisions/units First line First line autonomous control First line-of-defense First line-of-defense Internal Audit Function autonomous control Formulate strategies, autonomous control allocate business Third line The third line-of-defense is independent of the first and second lines resources, etc. and conducts assessment and examination on the operations of the * Of the core group companies, MHBK, MHTB, MHSC, and TCSB conduct risk first and second lines, and is responsible for providing advice and management and compliance based on the “three line of defense” concept. guidance to settle issues. 2017 Integrated Report 76 Foundations for Our Corporate Value Risk Management Mizuho recognizes the conducting of operations tailored to various types of risk and managing such risks as a key issue relating to overall management. In order to implement our business strategy while maintaining our financial stability, we maintain comprehensive risk management and control measures. MHFG maintains basic policies for risk management that are applicable to the entire group. In line with these basic policies, we endeavor to strengthen and enhance the sophistication of our risk management system. Risk Management Structure  or more information on F MHFG’s risk management, Each of our subsidiaries adopts appropriate risk management for the group as a whole. please access our website. management measures, while MHFG controls risk https://www.mizuho-fg.com/ investors/financial/edtf/ MHFG Supervision/Audit Management Departments responsible for risk management Executive Management Credit risk Comprehensive risks Committee Business Policy Committees Market risk/Liquidity risk Risk Management Department (Risk Management Committee, etc.) Operational risk Credit risk Credit Risk Management Department President & Group CEO Officers responsible Information technology risk IT & Systems Planning Department Board of Directors (Group CRO, etc.) Operations risk Operations Planning Department for risk management Legal risk Legal Department Operational risk Global Talent Planning and Human resources risk Management Department Risk Committee Tangible asset risk Facility Management Department Regulatory change risk Strategic Planning Department Corporate Communications Reputational risk Department Set risk management policies Report the risk management situation Give instructions and approval concerning risk management Submit applications concerning risk management MHBK MHTB MHSC Mizuho Americas Other core group companies Supervision/Audit MHBK MHTB Management Departments responsible for risk management Comprehensive risks Regulatory change Tangible asset risk Human resources Operational risk Reputational risk Information Credit risk Market risk/ Liquidity risk Operations risk Legal risk risk technology risk risk 77 Mizuho Financial Group Foundations for Our Corporate Value Risk Management At MHFG, the Risk Management Committee chaired by the Our core group companies each maintains its systems for Group CRO provides integrated monitoring and management of the managing various types of risk, receiving reports on the status of risk overall risk for the group. The Group CRO reports the risk at their respective subsidiaries, and gives them appropriate management situation to the Board of Directors, etc. MHFG receives instructions concerning risk management. reports and applications concerning the risk management situation from our core group companies and gives them appropriate instructions concerning risk management. General Concept of Risk Management We classify our risk exposures according to the various kinds of risk, In line with the basic policies relating to overall risk management including credit risk, market risk, liquidity risk, and operational risk, laid down by MHFG, companies within the group identify risk broadly and manage them. and take a proactive and sophisticated approach to risk management, In addition to managing each type of risk individually, we have including methodologies for operations that involve exposures to established a risk management structure to identify and evaluate multiple categories of risk such as settlement and trust businesses. overall risk and, to keep risk within limits that are managerially acceptable. Risk Category Definition The group’s exposure to the risk of losses that may be incurred due to a decline in, or total loss of, the value of assets Credit risk (including off-balance-sheet instruments), as a result of deterioration in obligors’ financial position The risk of losses incurred by the group due to fluctuations in interest rates, stock prices, and foreign exchange rates. Our definition includes the risk of losses incurred when it becomes impossible to execute transactions in the market Market risk because of market confusion or losses arising from transactions at prices that are significantly less favorable than usual. The risk of losses arising from funding difficulties due to a deterioration in our financial position that makes it difficult Liquidity risk for us to raise necessary funds or that forces us to raise funds at significantly higher interest rates than usual. The risk of losses that the group may incur resulting from inadequate or failed internal processes, people and systems, or from external events. Operational risk consists of several components such as information technology Operational risk risk, operations risk, etc. Refer to page 121 of Risk Management Structure in the Appendix for specific components of operational risk. Risk Capital Allocation We endeavor to obtain a clear grasp of the group’s overall risk we regularly monitor the manner in which risk capital is being used in exposure and have implemented measures to keep such risks order to obtain a proper grasp of the risk profile within this framework. within the group’s financial base in accordance with the risk capital Reports are also submitted to the Board of Directors and other allocation framework. committees of each company. Risk capital is allocated to MHBK, More specifically, we allocate risk capital to our core group MHTB, MHSC, and Mizuho Americas by risk category, and is further companies, to control risk within the limits set for each company. We allocated within their respective business units. also control risk within managerially acceptable limits by working to ensure that the overall risk on a consolidated basis does not exceed financial strength. To ensure the ongoing financial health of the group, 2017 Integrated Report 78 Foundations for Our Corporate Value Compliance Compliance As the leading Japanese financial services group with a global presence and a broad customer base, we remain conscious of the importance of our social responsibilities and public mission at all times. We define compliance as “the strict observance of all laws and regulations and the pursuit of fair and honest corporate activities that conform to the norms accepted by society” and view ongoing compliance as one of the basic principles of sound business management. Each of our group companies maintains its own compliance structure in line with the basic policies established by MHFG. Compliance Structure Internal Controls and Audit The President & CEO of MHFG, MHBK, MHTB, and Hotline for Accounting or ■ Compliance Structure MHSC each generally oversees compliance matters Auditing Matters of the respective company, and important matters MHFG MHFG has established a hotline concerning compliance are discussed at the within an external law office to Supervision/ Compliance Committees chaired by the President & Board of Directors Audit Committee receive reports from inside and CEO, etc. Audit outside the company in connection with problems concerning internal The four companies also have individual compliance controls and audits of accounts and departments under a Chief Compliance Officer. Executive Management President & Group CEO Committee financial reports. These departments are responsible for compliance planning and implementation and control overall Compliance Committee See the following website for (Chairman: President & Group CEO) compliance management at the respective Management contact information to make a report. companies. At each organizational unit (such as Group Chief Compliance Officer branches and departments) at the four companies, (Department in charge: Compliance Department) https://www.mizuho-fg.com/ the head of the unit is responsible for guidance and company/internal/compliance/ Every organizational unit implementation related to compliance matters, and Compliance officer compliance officer or compliance administrator at Head of each unit /compliance administrator each unit reviews the status of compliance. MHFG monitors the status of compliance of the group through reports submitted by our core group companies and adopts appropriate responses MHBK, MHTB, MHSC, and other core group companies when necessary. Compliance at subsidiaries of our core group companies is monitored and managed Subsidiaries of the above group companies by their respective parent. Compliance Activities We have established the Mizuho Code of employees so that they are fully acquainted with the Conduct, which sets forth clear and concrete contents of the compliance manual. standards of ethical behavior, and distributed it We monitor the status of compliance levels to all managements and employees of the group. through self-assessments by each department Furthermore, each of our group companies has and monitoring conducted by the compliance also prepared a compliance manual, which serves department of each company. In addition, every as a practical guidebook for rigorous compliance fiscal year, each of our group companies establishes enforcement and clarifies the laws and regulations a compliance program, which contains concrete that we must observe in pursuing our business measures for compliance enforcement such as activities and the compliance activities required management of the compliance framework, training, to follow. Each group company also conducts and assessments. Progress of the compliance compliance training for managements and program is monitored every six months. 79 Mizuho Financial Group Foundations for Our Corporate Value Compliance Efforts to Prevent Money Laundering, etc. In response to an increase in international demands for anti-money a global basis, such as performing customer due diligence/Know Your laundering and countering terrorist financing in recent years, the group Customer (KYC) practices when establishing business relationships has made the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing with customers, preventing transactions with subjects to asset freeze a top management priority, and implements measures based on such as terrorists, and using monitoring systems, etc. to detect and common policies throughout the group. We take various measures on report suspicious transactions. Severing Transactions with Anti-social Elements In order to prevent anti-social elements from influencing corporate Furthermore, core group companies maintain centralized management and to avoid any harm caused by them, MHFG departments or appoint an officer to manage anti-social element established the Mizuho Code of Conduct which sets out a policy to issues and make efforts to maintain effective frameworks, for sever any ties with anti-social elements that threaten the rule of law, example, by establishing a manual on how to manage such issues public order, and safety. and conducting training sessions. If required for specific cases, we MHFG, MHBK, MHTB, and MHSC have each established an consult with third-party experts and authorities to handle the cases. Anti-Social Elements Elimination Committee (chaired by the President & CEO, etc.), and take actions to sever relations with anti-social elements through group-wide cooperation. Measures for Further Compliance Main training themes Fiduciary duties The group places education and training for compliance as Management of customer information (firewall rules, etc.) important measures for thoroughgoing compliance. Severing relations with anti-social elements During fiscal 2016, Mizuho provided effective training to a Recent corporate scandals broad range of employees, from management to staff levels. Those The group works to ensure full compliance through training and include conducting compliance training sessions for all employees; other programs, but detecting information related to compliance position-specific training for executive officers, general managers, and taking appropriate action are also important issues. When deputy general managers, compliance officers, and others; and the group becomes aware of compliance issues, the compliance training sessions utilizing e-learning on various compliance themes manual requires that such matters be reported immediately to that were conducted 13 times. department and branch managers, and consultations are held. In addition, for executive officers, staff of the Compliance Furthermore, we have established a hotline that links to the Group, and other positions that require particularly high levels of Compliance Department, an external law office, and a professional knowledge, we provide more extensive training sessions, including service company, for direct reporting by employees. sessions taught by outside experts on themes related to changes in For issues concerning internal controls and audits of accounts the economic and social environment. and financial reports, we have also established a hotline within an external law office to receive reports from inside and outside the company. Mizuho’s Internal Reporting Systems (Compliance Hotline) MHFG has established an internal reporting system, and is working to increase its effectiveness by establishing group-wide reporting channels outside the workplace that are available in the evenings, on Saturdays and Sundays, and makes such services available in foreign languages. We are also working to make employees of each group company fully acquainted with these systems by hanging posters and distributing pocket cards with contact points indicated to all employees. Of note, MHFG and its core group companies received a total of 157 reports from a hotline both inside and outside the group in fiscal 2016, with the response status reported to MHFG’s Audit Committee. Internal Controls and Audit Hotline MHFG has established a hotline within an external law office to receive reports from inside and outside the company in connection with problems concerning accounts and financial reports. 2017 Integrated Report 80 Foundations for Our Corporate Value Compliance Management of Customer Protection We give first priority to our customers, and, based on the policy that earning the trust of our customers is the basis for ensuring sound management and earning the trust of other stakeholders, we will continuously verify and improve the operations of the group from the perspective of customers in order to ensure adequacy of operations and improve customer convenience as well as compliance, and manage customer protection uniformly in the group. Management of Customer Protection Structure At Mizuho, management of customer protection refers to the management required for achieving the following from the perspective MHFG of improving the protection of our customers and improving customer convenience. Supervision/ Board of Directors Audit Committee 1. Ensuring the adequacy and sufficiency of the explanation of Audit transactions, products, etc. as well as the provision of information (explanation of products, etc.) to customers. Executive Management 2. Ensuring the adequacy and sufficiency of handling customer President & Group CEO Committee consultations and complaints, etc. (customer service). Compliance Committee 3. Ensuring the adequacy of the management of customer information (Chairman: President & Group CEO) (management of customer information). Management 4. Ensuring the adequacy of managing customers and handling Officers responsible for the general management of customer protection of customer information in the event that group operations are (Department in charge: Compliance Department) outsourced (management of outsourcing). 5. Ensuring the adequacy of the management of the measures to Division(s) in charge Management of customer information be taken in order to appropriately address various situations of Explanation of products Management of outsourcing conflicts of interest that have stemmed from transactions with customers (management of conflicts of interest) Management of customer service Management of conflicts of interest The President & Group CEO of MHFG generally oversees management of customer protection, and also heads the Compliance Committee in which related important matters are discussed. The division responsible for each customer management also provides MHBK, MHTB, MHSC, and other core group companies centralized monitoring and customer protection management activities at the core group companies. The core group companies Subsidiaries of the above group companies manage customer protection management at their own group companies. Information Management Management of Customer Service Accompanying progress in IT, the usage of information has increased Our group, which has transactions with a wide range of customers, substantially, but, on the other hand, cyberattacks have risen in ensures to respond appropriately to customer complaints and number. This has led to closer scrutiny of the protection of personal continues to work toward protecting and increasing convenience for information from a social standpoint. Mizuho, which provides global our customers. comprehensive financial services, is aware information management Regarding complaints, we also ensure to respond quickly and that aims to appropriately protect and use information assets is of politely and always require appropriate reports on such matters. the highest importance. In our group, we clarify our management Furthermore, we regard customer feedbacks as important systems for information assets, security management measures management assets and work continuously to improve our operations and information administration methods. Also, we train and raise and prevent recurrences of issues to increase customer satisfaction. the level of awareness of each and every employee regarding the proper protection of information assets, and work to strengthen our Our initiatives toward management of customer protection information management systems. https://www.mizuho-fg.com/company/internal/customer/ 81 Mizuho Financial Group Foundations for Our Corporate Value Fiduciary Duties* * Fiduciary duties is a general term for the broad range of various roles and responsibilities that fiduciaries are expected to fulfill when engaging in certain business activities in order to live up to the trust that is placed in them by their customers. Mizuho, under Mizuho’s Corporate Identity, has established a common set of central values – called the Mizuho Values – starting with putting our customers first, and these values are shared by all its management and employees. As a team of finance professionals providing a broad range of financial services, we are committed to providing the best, most appropriate solutions in response to our customers’ diverse needs. As a long-term partner in providing appropriate products and services that are in our customers’ best interests, and in seeking to continue to be our customers’ most trusted financial services group in respect to our asset management–related business, Mizuho has established and announced Policies Regarding Mizuho’s Fiduciary Duty as its group-wide policy. In addition, in the holding company and group companies in charge of performing various functions, we have established and made public specific action plans that will put into practice measures formulated from our customers’ perspective. Major Group Companies that Have Established and Disclosed Action Plans Functions Sales Asset Management and Product Development Asset Administration MHBK MHTB MHSC Asset Management One TCSB *Please refer to the respective websites of each company for details. Strengthening Fiduciary Duty Related Structure From the standpoint of further implementing customer–oriented In addition, MHFG and its group companies each developed business operations, Mizuho established the Fiduciary Duty Advisory Fiduciary Duty Promotion Office as a specialized organization to Committee to discuss revising and enhancement of the policies. promote fiduciary duties. For the purpose of thorough implementation MHFG’s President & CEO chairs the Fiduciary Duty Advisory of customer-oriented operation, the offices revise group-wide policies Committee and its members include external academics and and action plans. specialists as advisors, to obtain opinions and advice from the outside and exchange views. Specific Initiatives With the aim of maintaining a high-quality lineup of products, MHBK, We are also taking initiatives to further increase our capabilities MHTB, and MHSC have clarified their criteria for selecting asset for product proposal and explanation methods. These include management companies, insurance companies, and other related incorporating systems for automatically judging customers’ companies as well as their criteria for improving and abolishing compatibility in the tablet computers of RMs, thereby, establishing existing products when introducing new products. a structure for more accurate understanding of customers’ risk Along with this, Mizuho has defined its sales commissions tolerance and other factors. Similarly, we have also introduced tools and renewal commissions as payments for consulting, provision of that can narrow down the choice of possible investment products information, and related handling costs. Based on this definition, we have based on customers’ needs. newly introduced and disclosed our fee structure related to insurance. 2017 Integrated Report 82 Foundations for Our Corporate Value IT Strategy IT systems are crucial elements of financial institutions’ management and business strategies, and highquality IT strategies are key means of differentiating an institution from its competitors and establishing superior competitiveness. Mizuho will aim for strong IT systems that are efficient and stable and will support its One MIZUHO Strategy. We will continue to develop IT systems that will also mobilize the group’s comprehensive capabilities to establish superior competitiveness, meet customer needs, and give a solid response to progress in IT, tighter financial regulations, and other trends, while also providing global IT services in an integrated manner among banking, trust banking, and securities functions. To do this, we are taking initiatives in structural reforms of our systems and promoting group-wide data management and cyber security, as we also continue to strengthen IT governance. Selected as Competitive IT System Structural Reform Strategy Company 2017 (for the second consecutive year) To respond to the needs of our customers and developing common systems and strategic rebuilding society as a whole, which are becoming increasingly as well as sophistication of infrastructure using the sophisticated year by year, we are taking initiatives Cloud, and developing the next-generation IT system in making both system structural reform and IT as the compilation of these initiatives. In addition, we operation process reforms to “make IT systems fast are drawing on the latest digital technologies and and inexpensive” and “keep it efficient.” Responding moving forward with IT business process reforms to to customer service and business needs, we improve productivity in development and enhance are making structural improvements that include the efficiency of operations and administration. Efforts to System Structural Reform Apr. 2010 to Apr. 2002Dec. 2004 Mar. 2013 Apr. 2013Apr. 2016Merger of three Integration of Mizuho’s Transformation Previous medium-term Current medium-term One System banks systems Program business plan business plan Thorough system risk management/ Improvement of system risk assessment system quality management for stable system operation Improvement of response capabilities to cyberattacks Further improve system security and Upgrade services and functions stability One Bank Strategic Common infrastructure Improve project rebuilding Renewal of IT legacy Cost reduction functions systems Next-generation IT systems Rebuild peripheral Introduce common IT Introduce hub & IT systems in business platform spoke system stages Offer innovative Enhance infrastructure financial services Public cloud Hybrid cloud Private cloud Improve productivity in IT development High-speed development tools, etc. RPA¹, AI, etc. Use of digital Responding to financial technology innovation Strengthen API², etc. cost competitiveness Increasing efficiency 1. Robotic Process Automation of IT operations 2. Application Programming Interface RPA, etc. 83 Mizuho Financial Group Foundations for Our Corporate Value IT Strategy Cyber Security Mizuho-CIRT Collaborate External organization Integrated SOC Forensics Rescue/support At Mizuho, to enable customers to make use of financial services feeling secured and contribute to stable operation and sustainable Gather information/implement Monitor/respond development of the financial infrastructure, we have positioned coping countermeasures/investigate with cyberattacks as a top priority management issue. With MizuhoMultilayer defense systems ! Attacker Assets/services to be protected CIRT¹ taking the lead, we have assigned high-level professionals and are drawing on intelligence and cutting-edge technology developed Targeted cyberattack Protect in collaboration with external specialist organizations, while we are Website alteration DDoS attack Information assets also taking initiatives to strengthen our strategic resilience capabilities. Hacking Customer information These include monitoring via integrated SOC², analyzing computer Illegal money transfer viruses, developing multilayer defense systems, and other measures. 1. Cyber Incident Response Team 2. Security Operation Center Data Management Collaboration Mizuho’s customers SNS Internet Bank Trust bank Securities As data management for data collection and analysis to be used in banking Bank, Accounting systems management and business becomes more important to respond Internet Branch trust bank, ATM to global financial regulations and sophistication of MIS³, we have securities Treasury systems prepared a database to centralize management of collected and Credit Website Call center Information systems analyzed data relating to risks and profits, etc. In addition, with the card aim of using big data for more sophisticated marketing, we are Data analysis platform Management information database promoting the development of a data analysis platform that can process large volumes of data at high speeds. Marketing data Risk/profit data 3. Management Information System Improve marketing using big Appropriately respond to global Upgrade management data financial regulations dashboard/MIS Transition to Next-generation IT Systems Regarding the next-generation IT systems, the highest priority is placed on ensuring quality and safe launching. Preparation will be carefully conducted after checking the system quality as it is critical to ensure safe and steady transition. The system migration will be implemented gradually, after thorough rehearsals. In the next-generation IT systems, as a result of unification of Mizuho’s current three core banking systems, we will downsize and streamline our IT systems. Also, developing independent components by business and function will enable flexible adaption to new services and shorten the lead time and reduce costs for new development. By structuring cutting-edge core banking systems, we will strengthen infrastructure for providing services to our customers and improve operations processing speed. Existing systems Next-Generation IT Systems Ahead of Other Banks Unification of Core Banking Systems of former Outline of the next-generation IT systems MHBK, former MHCB, and MHTB MHBK Channel systems • Downsize and streamline the IT systems Externally connected Internet banking, etc. Internal terminals • Improve response to potential system failures systems, etc. Unification of the IT systems Former MHBK banking systems Independent components by business and function Common business platform (since FY2013) • Improve flexibility through a simplified structure • Enable flexible adaptation to new services Former MHCB banking systems Accounting Component • Shorten the lead time and reduce costs for new systems Domestic Foreign Trust development Deposit Loan exchange exchange business Cutting-edge next-generation core banking systems MHTB … Information • Strengthen infrastructure for providing services • Improve operations processing speed Banking systems systems Core information systems 2017 Integrated Report 84 Foundations for Our Corporate Value Embed a Corporate Culture that Encourages the Active Participation of Our Workforce Encouraging the Active Participation of Our Workforce In order to realize the tenets of Mizuho’s Corporate Identity, Mizuho has established an HR Vision to encourage all employees to take initiative and develop themselves. HR Vision Mizuho Financial Group firmly believes that the personal development of individual employees contributes to the stable and sustainable growth of Mizuho as a whole. Mizuho recognizes those employees who make an effort to put the Mizuho Values into practice and helps employees to create a more fulfilling life through their work. Mizuho encourages employees to utilize their strengths, and provides opportunities for them to use their skills and to develop their abilities. Mizuho encourages employees who differ in terms of gender, country of origin, cultural background, and values to understand, respect, and inspire each other. Mizuho works with its employees to create a corporate culture that encourages people to be passionate about and to take pride in their work. One of the basic policies in our medium-term business plan is to “embed a corporate culture that encourages the active participation of our workforce to support a stronger Mizuho.” With this in mind, in fiscal 2016 we worked towards achieving a competitive advantage for Mizuho in terms of our workforce by establishing “Mizuho’s HR Policy” and moving forward with fundamental reforms in HR management. Fundamental Reforms in HR Management In order to implement Mizuho’s new financial services consulting active participation of our diverse workforce. In order to ensure a high group business model, we need to move away from the outdated level of transparency and accountability in our HR practices, we also practices and unwritten rules which hinder the effectiveness of our HR made both of these documents publically available. strategies (for example, a “one-size-fits-all” style of HR management and promotions based on number of years at the company rather than ability and potential). It is essential that we encourage Key Strategies for Implementing Fundamental Reforms in employees to take on challenges proactively without fearing failure, HR Management to reach their full potential, and to remain highly motivated. Each 1. HR management that respects employees’ individuality of the key strategies for implementing the fundamental reforms in  Development-focused HR management aimed at enhancing HR management are aimed at enabling us to continually enhance employees’ strengths Multi-track HR management that employee engagement, ensuring that all employees can achieve responds to the career goals of a diverse workforce continual growth, reach their full potential, and enjoy long and fulfilling  Promoting the health and wellbeing of employees and careers at Mizuho. maintaining a healthy work environment In order to clearly communicate to all employees and executive 2. Strategic employee rotation officers the principles that will be applied to Mizuho’s HR strategies, 3. Development of future executive leaders HR systems, and HR management, we established “Mizuho’s HR 4. Globalization of Mizuho’s talent and HR management Policy.” Additionally, we released a “Diversity and Inclusion Statement” 5. Promotion of diversity and inclusion to affirm our commitment to promoting the professional growth and Mizuho’s HR Strategies and Employee Satisfaction Employee satisfaction* Voluntary employee turnover rate (%) Mizuho’s HR strategies Revisions to the HR Vision Revisions to the HR system Fundamental reforms in (flexible work arrangements and expanded HR management 3.82 support for employees who are caregivers) 3.73 3.67 3.03 3.59 3.11 3.02 2.83 3.45 3.46 FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 *Average response on a scale from 1 to 5 in the category of “satisfaction with the company” on the annual Staff Survey. 85 Mizuho Financial Group Foundations for Our Corporate Value Embed a Corporate Culture that Encourages the Active Participation of Our Workforce Primary Initiatives in Fiscal 2016 In addition to promoting our key strategies, we made reforms in HR management in order to ensure that sure to have direct dialogue with all employees about everyone had an opportunity to learn about the the background and rationale behind the fundamental changes. · Tmanagement ransition to development-focused HR · Popportunities romote globalization by providing more for Japanese employees to gain · Expand multi-track HR management international experience · IDevelopment ntroduction of the Mizuho Executive Leader Program (ELP) · Amanagement ccelerate the promotion of female employees to positions · PJapan roactively promote employees hired outside of to management positions · Twork ransform work-life balance management (flexible arrangements) HR Management that Respects Employees' Individuality C  areer design seminars (FY2016) Number of seminar participants We will transition to a more development-focused HR which is beneficial based on their inherent qualities, 4,952 participants management which focuses on the inherent qualities evaluating employees based on the growth in their (+2,396 year-on-year) of each individual and develops their strengths by abilities (including learning from their mistakes), and Number of hours participants encouraging them to proactively take on challenges. ensuring that employees have opportunities for spent in attendance We will seek to bring out each diverse dialogue with their supervisors regarding their career 65,824 hours individual’s potential through work experience path and that they receive sufficient feedback. (+26,824 year-on-year) Strategic Employee Rotation Strategic Employee Rotation Through employee rotations across in-house In-house company/unit/group company Development-focused HR management companies, units, and other organizational borders Employees carrying out our within the group we will develop employees strategically in line with both their individual career Group-wide strategic employee aspirations and our strategies for each business field. rotation across in-house business strategies company/unit/group company A career design seminar Development of Future Executive Leaders High potential employees will be identified and selected In-house company/unit/group company from a diverse pool of candidates on a group-wide and global basis, and their leadership capabilities will be strategically developed through the Executive Leader Overview of Mizuho’s Executive Leader Development Program Development Program. This program seeks to cultivate: 1) leaders befitting of a top class financial group—highly 1st cycle 2nd cycle 3rd cycle MHFG motivated with a strong mental stance, capable of Deputy general manager and joint General manager uniting the entire organization to drive change; 2) leaders general manager level level Next generation of executive leadership MHBK who can define and articulate Mizuho’s future vision and direction, corporate identity, and fundamental executive MHTB policies; and 3) leaders who can also drive inorganic Stretch job assignments growth and change, without being bound by precedent MHSC and who do not give up when faced with a variety of Leadership training programs Asset Management difficulties or crises, but instead tackle them head-on One and mitigate risk and damage to the organization. Assessment & feedback MHRI The program seeks to cultivate the next generation of Mizuho’s executive leadership through a four-pronged Coaching by external specialists MHIR approach: 1) stretch job assignments where participants gain experience in strategically important or challenging The candidate pool is not fixed. Candiposts; 2) leadership training programs (developed by dates may be replaced or added based on Employees around periodical assessment. Mizuho in collaboration with global business schools; the world some of the programs are entirely in English) which seek to develop participants’ “ability to initiate,” “ability to achieve,” and “integrity”; 3) feedback provided to the participant; and 4) coaching by external specialists. 2017 Integrated Report 86 Foundations for Our Corporate Value Embed a Corporate Culture that Encourages the Active Participation of Our Workforce Diversity and Inclusion We aim to proactively incorporate the ideas and to be working at Mizuho and enjoy long and fulfilling opinions of our diverse workforce into our everyday careers. work, strategic planning, and decision-making in In order to better support women’s career order to create new value and innovations. We are advancement, we are strengthening and expanding Mizuho received Platinum Kurumin committed to valuing the voices of women, nonour strategic development programs and are certification in recognition of our significant efforts to implement and Japanese nationals, individuals with disabilities, supporting the activities of the Mizuho Women’s maintain systems that assist workindividuals who identify as LGBT, employees who Initiatives Network (M-WIN), a global, employee-led ers in balancing work and childcare. are balancing childcare or aging family member care network. In doing so we aim to promote the active with their work, and other diverse groups. We are participation of women in the workplace and their promoting diversity and inclusion in order to ensure contribution to the creation of new value. Mizuho received Semi-Nadeshiko that each employee can feel motivated and proud Brand designation for fiscal 2016, conferred jointly by the Tokyo Stock  ransforming Work-life Balance Management (Flexible Work Arrangements) and Promoting T Exchange and Japan’s Ministry of Employee Health and Wellbeing Economy, Trade and Industry. In order to provide employees with more diverse responsibilities in order to support colleagues who and flexible work arrangements and impose fewer are balancing childcare or aging family member limitations on their working hours and location, care with their work. These efforts, coupled with we will continue to expand our telecommuting initiatives for promoting employee health and system and other available options. We are also wellbeing, are aimed at creating a comfortable work aiming to transform employee mindsets through environment for all employees and enabling them initiatives such as setting a target for 100% of to enjoy long careers at Mizuho, while having the eligible male employees to take childcare leave and additional benefit of making the workplace more Mizuho was recognized on the 2017 Bloomberg Financial Services acknowledging employees who take on additional productive. Gender-Equality Index. Globalization of Mizuho’s Talent and HR Management Mizuho’s business strategies are increasingly In particular we are aiming to accelerate the global in nature and therefore we are focused on development and promotion to management roles developing global talent and ensuring the right of employees hired outside Japan as well as provide person is in the right position on a global basis by more opportunities for Japanese employees to gain standardizing HR management for all employees international experience. Mizuho received the top rating of regardless of which country they were hired in. “Gold” on the PRIDE Index which evaluates LGBT-related initiatives. Numerical Targets (MHFG, MHBK, MHTB, and MHSC) NumeriTo be Area cal target achieved by Current (as of last year) Percentage of management positions filled by Outside Japan 50% 41%(33%) employees hired outside Japan (MHBK) Percentage of management positions filled by women 10% 8%(7%) Mizuho recognized under the 2017 General manager 10% 4%(3%) Projection for July equivalent July 2019 Certified Health & Productivity Percentage of 2017 Manager equivalent and Management Organization Recogmanagement positions 20% 12%(10%) above filled by women nition Program (Large Enterprise Supervisor equivalent 30% 24%(22%) Category). Japan (total for and above the above noted 4 Percentage of new graduates hired for management companies) 30% FY2019 intake 33%(34%) FY2017 intake track jobs who are female Percentage of paid annual leave taken by employees 70% FY2018 68%(64%) FY2016 Percentage of eligible male employees who take 100% FY2018 23%(1.5%) FY2016 childcare leave Percentage of employees who are individuals with 2.3% June 2019 2.1%(2.2%) March 2017 disabilities 87 Mizuho Financial Group Foundations for Our Corporate Value Embed a Corporate Culture that Encourages the Active Participation of Our Workforce Embedding a Corporate Culture One of the 10 Basic Strategies set in Mizuho’s medium-term business plan is continued initiatives toward embedding a corporate culture to support the creation of a stronger organization. Basic Approach Mizuho is moving forward with the establishment of a strong corporate culture that is indispensable for building a strong organization to realize Corporate Philosophy its aim of being a financial services consulting group. Mizuho’s fundamental approach Mizuho’s Corporate Identity to business activities, based on Corporate cultures are nurtured and established through the the raison d’etre of Mizuho actions of each and every employee based on their awareness of the Mizuho Values. With the One MIZUHO Promotion Project Team taking the lead, we are working to encourage the penetration and sharing of Vision the Mizuho’s Corporate Identity and our medium-term business plan Mizuho’s vision for the future, realized through the practice among all management and staff of our group and are promoting of Corporate Philosophy initiatives to support the efforts of all employees in putting the Mizuho Values into practice. Specific activities include “strengthening our Values initiatives at the departmental and branch levels aimed at having each The shared values and princiand every employee put the Mizuho Values into practice” and “further ples of Mizuho’s people, uniting promoting internal communication.” all executives and employees together to pursue “Vision” Common culture throughout the group Strengthening Our Initiatives to Encourage All Employees to Put the Mizuho Values into Practice Visions of Individual Offices G  eneral Managers’ Off-site Each office formulates a “office Meetings vision” containing that office’s We hold General Managers’ Offaims, and the staff members of site Meetings for the general each office strive to realize their managers of our domestic and respective visions. Furthermore, overseas offices who are supposed each office organizes the One to provide a driving force for MIZUHO Day meetings to establishing our corporate culture. deliberate about the initiatives that At these meetings, the general should be implemented. managers hold discussions regarding their own action plans and other matters aimed at establishing our corporate culture. Continuing Measures to Promote Internal Communication Culture Prizes Arigato (Thank You) Cards For employees who are putting the These cards, which can be used on Mizuho Values into practice at a very tablet computers and smartphones, high level and deserve to be recognized have been created as a tool for as role models for all employees, the employees to praise one another. Group CEO presents awards and These messages serve to increase congratulates those outstanding interest in ways that fellow employees. Their exemplary behavior employees work, help to improve and good examples are shared widely communication, and nurture mutual throughout the group. In fiscal 2016, trust. 75 employees were selected to receive these special awards. 2017 Integrated Report 88 Foundations for Our Corporate Value Stakeholder Communication Having articulated its fundamental ethical posture toward its stakeholders in the Mizuho Code of Conduct, Mizuho proactively undertakes communication activities and strives to ensure that its corporate activities are in harmony with common sense as well as being fair and transparent. Mizuho’s Stakeholder Dialogue at branches and PR activities through our sales staff Website Customer feedback cards Questionnaires for customers Call centers and customer satisfaction surveys General meeting of shareholders, brochure entitled Report to Our Shareholders P79,90 Investor briefings, IR contact Appropriate responses to website page supervisory authorities Dissemination of information through Activities through industry websites and disclosure materials groups PR activities Public-private partnership Responding to socially responsible Customers initiatives investment surveys, etc. Policy recommendations P17 Government Shareholders authorities Mizuho P85 Suppliers/ P90 Employees Competitors Education and training Purchasing activities and In-house communication activities outsourcing contracts based on Employee opinion surveys the Mizuho Code of Conduct Labor-management consultations as well as on compliance Arrangement for responding to Regional/Local regulations, etc. communities consultations and complaints Coordination and cooperation in business activities P29 Cooperation through industry groups and diverse initiatives Social contribution activities Support for financial education  takeholder dialogue S PR activities 89 Mizuho Financial Group Foundations for Our Corporate Value Stakeholder Communication Case Example 1: Communication with Customers Initiatives to Improve Customer Satisfaction (CS) In order to become the best financial services provider, Mizuho strives to continuously provide the bestsuited leading-edge financial services to each of its customers and the economies and societies it serves by anticipating economic and social changes promptly from the global perspective. Adopting the customer first principle, Mizuho also works to build a trust relationship in the medium to long term, with an awareness that every action by every employee has a bearing on the satisfaction and trust of its customers. Initiatives to Improve Customer Satisfaction (CS) https://www.mizuho-fg.com/csr/customer/cs.html Main Achievements in Fiscal 2016’s Efforts to Be the Best Financial Services Provider No. 1 in Retail Banking Survey on Product Offering Adequacy by Nikkei Veritas for three consecutive years Received an MCPC 2016 Special Award (for mobile services using Fintech) No. 1 analyst ranking for four consecutive years in research by both Nikkei Veritas and Institutional Investor Received Special Award (Kizuna Award) in the Third Service Hospitality Awards (Fiscal 2016) Mizuho received the special service hospitality award, also known as “Kizuna Award” from the Japan Institute of Information Technology. This award recognized Mizuho’s unified head office and frontline efforts to be the best financial services provider, while deepening group ties as One Received the special service MIZUHO and having each employee act to achieve customer satisfaction. hospitality award Award theme Striving to be the best financial services provider Case Example 2: Participation in Initiatives Mizuho, given its global perspective and role as a financial institution, participates in global initiatives to advance activities for the formation of a sustainable society. United Nations Global UNEP Finance Initiative (UNEP FI) Principles for Financial Action for the Compact International partnership 21st Century Ten principles adof financial institutions Initiatives by financial dressing matters like concerning sustainable institutions in Japan for human rights, labor, practices in the various financial action toward a the environment, operations in which financial sustainable society and anti-corruption institutions are involved UN’s Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI) Equator Principles Montréal Carbon Pledge Principles which ensure environmental, Financial industry standards for Initiatives by institutional investors for social, and corporate governance issues identifying, assessing, and managing measuring and disclosing the greenhouse are incorporated into the decision-making environmental and social risks in largegas emissions of the equities portfolio they processes of investment scale project-related financings manage Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) (climate change / water) Cross-sector Biodiversity Initiative Project via which institutional investors Initiatives to discuss response ask companies to disclose their measures to cope with the strategies concerning climate change biodiversity impact of large-scale and water as well as their greenhouse development projects gas emission volumes, etc. 2017 Integrated Report 90 Financial Review Six-year Major Financial Data (FY2011-2016) Summary of Consolidated Performance (JPY billions) FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 Consolidated Gross Profits 2,003.0 2,171.7 2,035.2 2,247.7 2,221.6 2,092.7 Net Interest Income 1,088.3 1,075.8 1,108.3 1,129.4 1,003.6 867.8 Fiduciary Income 49.0 48.5 52.0 52.6 53.4 50.6 Credit Costs for Trust Accounts — — — — — — Net Fee and Commission Income 458.9 507.3 560.7 593.3 607.5 603.5 Net Trading Income 150.3 215.0 187.4 262.9 310.5 325.3 Net Other Operating Income 256.4 324.8 126.7 209.3 246.4 245.4 General and Administrative Expenses (1,283.8) (1,244.6) (1,258.2) (1,351.6) (1,349.5) (1,467.2) Consolidated Net Business Profits* 719.1 912.1 744.2 876.9 852.8 663.4 Credit-related Costs 27.7 (111.8) 112.8 (4.6) (30.4) (47.5) Aggregate Figures for the 2 Banks 24.7 (114.1) 116.6 (7.8) (26.7) (49.3) Net Gains (Losses) related to Stocks (38.1) (82.9) 77.0 131.9 205.6 242.1 Net Gains (Losses) on Sales of Stocks 15.6 46.6 81.5 143.7 225.3 261.1 Losses on Impairment (Devaluation) of Stocks (49.3) (125.8) (5.3) (5.3) (10.3) (4.8) Equity in Income from Investment in Affiliates 2.6 (11.1) 15.4 15.0 24.2 18.8 Other (62.9) 29.2 5.1 (27.5) (74.0) (101.5) Ordinary Profits 648.5 750.3 987.5 1,010.8 997.5 737.5 Net Extraordinary Gains (Losses) 67.8 (32.5) (2.2) (20.2) 10.7 46.6 Income Taxes – Current (55.3) (50.4) (137.0) (260.2) (213.2) (196.5) – Deferred (97.4) (7.4) (77.9) (44.7) (69.2) 58.8 Profit 563.6 659.9 770.3 685.6 725.7 646.4 Profit Attributable to Non-controlling Interests (79.1) (99.4) (81.9) (73.7) (54.7) (42.9) Profit Attributable to Owners of Parent 484.5 560.5 688.4 611.9 670.9 603.5 * Consolidated Gross Profits – G&A Expenses (excluding Non-Recurring Losses) + Equity in Income from Investments in Affiliates and certain other consolidation adjustments Summary of Consolidated Balance Sheet (JPY billions) FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 Assets 165,360.5 177,411.0 175,822.8 189,684.7 193,458.5 200,508.6 Loans and Bills Discounted 63,800.5 67,536.8 69,301.4 73,415.1 73,708.8 78,337.7 Securities 51,392.8 53,472.3 43,997.5 43,278.7 39,505.9 32,353.1 Liabilities 158,491.2 169,674.8 167,518.3 179,884.2 184,105.3 191,235.2 Deposits 78,811.9 84,241.9 89,055.5 97,757.5 105,629.0 120,045.2 Negotiable Certificates of Deposit 11,824.7 15,326.7 12,755.7 15,694.9 11,827.5 10,631.2 Net Assets 6,869.2 7,736.2 8,304.5 9,800.5 9,353.2 9,273.3 Total Shareholders’ Equity 4,762.7 5,174.6 5,676.2 6,131.1 6,559.9 7,001.2 Retained Earnings 1,405.0 1,814.7 2,315.6 2,769.3 3,197.6 3,615.4 Total Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income 146.6 752.5 781.0 2,029.9 1,607.8 1,520.9 Non-controlling Interests 1,957.6 1,806.4 1,844.0 1,635.5 1,182.6 749.3 Financial Indicators (%) FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 Common Equity Tier 1 Capital Ratio (Consolidated) / 8.16 8.80 9.43 10.50 11.34 Tier 1 Capital Ratio (Consolidated) / 11.03 11.35 11.50 12.64 13.30 Capital Adequacy Ratio (BIS Standard) (Consolidated) 15.50 / / / / / Total Capital Ratio (Consolidated) / 14.19 14.36 14.58 15.41 16.28 Net Assets per Share (Yen) 187.19 229.70 253.25 322.86 322.46 335.96 Profit Attributable to Owners of Parent per Share (Yen) 20.62 22.96 28.18 24.91 26.94 23.86 Net Return on Equity (Consolidated) 11.36 10.99 11.65 8.60 8.37 7.27 91 Mizuho Financial Group Financial Review Review and Analysis for Fiscal 2016 Financial and Economic Environment GDP of Major Countries Japan Reviewing the economic environment over the fiscal year ended 6.0 (Annual % rate change from previous year) 4.0 March 31, 2017, the global economy as a whole continued to recover 2.0 gradually, although weakness in the recovery is seen in some regions. 0.0 As for the future direction of the economy, although continued (2.0) recovery is expected, particularly in the United States, concerns over (4.0) a downturn still linger, and such factors as the policy management of (6.0) (8.0) the new president of the United States, the political climate in Europe, 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 trends in China’s economy and increased geopolitical risk need (Source: Prepared by MHRI based on the data of Cabinet Office) continued and careful observation. In the United States, employment conditions continued to be generally favorable, and the economy continued to be on a recovery U.S. trend, supported by steady consumer spending and increased 6.0 (Annual % rate change from previous year) 5.0 exports. The economy is expected to continue to be on a trend of 4.0 gradual expansion, backed by policies of the new president; however, 3.0 concerns such as increasing uncertainty about the future direction of 2.0 1.0 the economy caused by foreign exchange and trade policies under 0.0 the new administration require attention. (1.0) In Europe, the economies continued to recover gradually due to (2.0) such factors as the recovery of consumer spending and the pickup in 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 (Source: Prepared by MHRI based on the data of the United States Department of Commerce) exports. It is expected that the economies of the region will continue to exhibit the same trend; however, political developments in Europe, including the United Kingdom’s Brexit negotiations, elections in Euro Zone European countries and non-performing loan problems in southern 4.0 (Annual % rate change from previous year) European countries, require further attention. 3.0 In Asia, China’s economy was stable, partly due to support 2.0 from governmental policies. Going forward, with continued support 1.0 provided by fiscal policies, including investment in infrastructure and 0.0 tax reductions, China’s economy is expected to remain generally (1.0) unchanged for the time being. The economies of emerging countries (2.0) have picked up due to such factors as the steadiness of China’s 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 economy and the increase in resource prices. As for the future (Source: Prepared by MHRI based on the data of Eurostat) direction of the economies, partially due to concerns such as depreciation in the currencies of emerging countries and increased China capital outflow pressures, the pace of economic expansion is 8.0 (Annual % rate change from previous year) expected to remain gradual. 7.5 In Japan, benefiting from improvement of overseas economies, the economy continued to recover gradually mainly in the areas 7.0 of export and capital expenditure. Going forward, the economy is 6.5 expected to continue to recover gradually, due to such factors as an improved export environment and the effectiveness of various 6.0 policies; however, increasing uncertainty in overseas economies 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 requires continued attention. (Source: Prepared by MHRI based on the data of National Bureau of Statistics of China) 2017 Integrated Report 92 Financial Review Summary of Consolidated Performance Historical Data (JPY billions) FY2008 FY2009 FY2010 FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 Consolidated Gross Profit 1,806.9 1,996.6 2,025.3 2,003.0 2,171.7 2,035.2 2,247.7 2,221.6 2,092.7 Consolidated Net Business Profit*1 622.6 702.6 741.7 719.1 912.1 744.2 876.9 852.8 663.4 688.4 611.9 670.9 603.5 484.5 560.5 413.2 239.4 Net Income (Losses)*2 (588.8) *1. Consolidated Gross Profits – G&A Expenses (excluding Non-Recurring Losses) + Equity in Income from Investments in Affiliates and certain other consolidation adjustments *2. Profit Attributable to Owners of Parent Consolidated Gross Profits of the aggregate figures for MHBK + MHTB (the (JPY billions) Two Banks) on a non-consolidated basis decreased by JPY157.9 Change from FY2016 FY2015 billion on a year-on-year basis to JPY1,441.4 billion reflecting the FY2015 impact of the negative interest rates and other factors. Consolidated Gross Profits 2,092.7 2,221.6 (128.8) General and Administrative Expenses of the Two Banks Consolidated Net Business Profits* 663.4 852.8 (189.4) increased by JPY36.1 billion on a year-on-year basis to JPY947.1 Credit-related Costs (47.5) (30.4) (17.0) billion mainly due to an increase in domestic personnel expenses such Net Gains (Losses) related to Stocks 242.1 205.6 36.4 as the Reserve for Employee Retirement Benefits and investment of Ordinary Profits 737.5 997.5 (260.0) strategic expenses. Profit Attributable to Owners of Parent 603.5 670.9 (67.3) Net Operating Revenues of MHSC on a consolidated basis * Consolidated Gross Profits – G&A Expenses (excluding Non-Recurring Losses) + Equity decreased by JPY49.2 billion on a year-on-year basis to JPY365.9 in Income from Investments in Affiliates and certain other consolidation adjust billion in part due to the impact of decrease in consolidated subsidiaries as a result of corporate restructuring in the group MHBK+MHTB (Aggregate figures on a non-consolidated basis) companies and other factors, offset in part by an increase in Net Gain (JPY billions) on Trading. Change from FY2016 FY2015 FY2015 SG&A Expenses decreased by JPY38.6 billion on a year-on-year basis to JPY290.9 billion. Gross Profits 1,441.4 1,599.3 (157.9) As a result, Consolidated Net Business Profits decreased by G&A Expenses JPY189.4 billion on a year-on-year basis to JPY 663.4 billion. (947.1) (910.9) (36.1) (excluding Non-Recurring Losses) Net Business Profits 494.3 688.4 (194.1) Credit-related Costs (49.3) (26.7) (22.5) Profit Attributable to Owners of Parent Net Gains (Losses) related to Stocks 210.5 181.4 29.0 Ordinary Profits 522.8 762.9 (240.0) Consolidated Credit-related Costs amounted to JPY47.5 billion. Net Income 388.0 530.6 (142.6) Net Gains (Losses) related to Stocks increased by JPY36.4 billion on a year-on-year basis to JPY242.1 billion. MHSC (Consolidated) As a result, Ordinary Profits decreased by JPY260.0 billion on a (JPY billions) Change from year-on-year basis to JPY737.5 billion. FY2016 FY2015 Net Extraordinary Gains (Losses) increased by JPY35.9 FY2015 billion on a year-on-year basis to net gains of JPY46.6 billion due Net Operating Revenues 365.9 415.2 (49.2) to extraordinary gains as a result of the establishment of Asset SG & A Expenses (290.9) (329.6) 38.6 Management One Co., Ltd. Ordinary Income 75.8 85.4 (9.6) Income Taxes decreased by JPY144.8 billion on a year-on-year Profit Attributable to Owners of Parent 188.5 61.1 127.4 basis to JPY137.7 billion due to the recording of deferred tax assets as a result of corporate restructuring in MHSC group companies and Consolidated Net Business Profits other factors. As a result, Profit Attributable to Owners of Parent for FY2016 We recorded Consolidated Gross Profits of JPY2,092.7 billion for decreased by JPY67.3 billion on a year-on-year basis to JPY603.5 fiscal 2016, decreasing by JPY128.8 billion from the previous fiscal billion. This result shows a 100% achievement against the earnings year. plan for FY2016 of JPY600.0 billion. 93 Mizuho Financial Group Financial Review Review and Analysis for Fiscal 2016 Summary of Consolidated Balance Sheet Consolidated (JPY billions) Securities Change from March 31, March 31, 2017 2016 March 31, Securities were JPY32,353.1 billion, decreasing by JPY7,152.8 billion 2016 from the end of the previous fiscal year due to a decrease in JGBs Assets 200,508.6 193,458.5 7,050.0 and other factors. Securities 32,353.1 39,505.9 (7,152.8) Japanese Government 13,324.3 19,525.9 (6,201.6) JGB Balance (MHBK + MHTB)*1 (Acquisition cost basis) Bonds Japanese Local Mediumand Long-term Bonds*2 (JPY trillions) Floating-rate Notes (JPY trillions) 284.4 240.6 43.7 Government Bonds Treasury Discount Bills (JPY trillions) Japanese Corporate Bonds 2,696.3 2,867.9 (171.6) and Short-term Bonds 21.8 Japanese Stocks 3,958.4 3,898.7 59.7 17.2 5.2 15.6 Other 12,089.5 12,972.6 (883.0) 1.1 2.6 0.7 0.5 10.2 Loans and Bills Discounted 78,337.7 73,708.8 4,628.9 0.6 1.7 15.4 13.8 14.4 0.6 Loans 7.8 (MHBK+MHTB, banking 75,416.0 74,751.6 664.4 account + trust account) Mar. 31, Mar. 31, Mar. 31, Mar. 31, Domestic Total 56,288.5 55,530.4 758.0 2014 2015 2016 2017 Loans to SMEs and Average Remaining Period*3 32,500.8 32,780.3 (279.4) Individual Customers 2.4 years 2.6 years 2.5 years 2.4 years (Housing loans for owner’s residential 9,497.5 9,949.7 (452.1) *1. Other securities which have readily determinable fair values housing) *2. Including bonds with remaining period of one year or less Overseas Total 19,127.5 19,221.1 (93.6) *3. Excluding Floating-rate Notes Liabilities 191,235.2 184,105.3 7,129.9 Deposits 120,045.2 105,629.0 14,416.1 Domestic Deposits Japanese Stocks (Consolidated)* (JPY billions) (Acquisition cost basis) 92,744.3 88,071.3 4,672.9 (MHBK + MHTB) 2,003.8 Individual Deposits 41,381.9 40,241.2 1,140.7 1,962.9 Corporate Deposits 43,941.2 40,695.0 3,246.1 1,847.1 Financial/Government 7,421.1 7,135.0 286.0 Institutions 1,687.5 Negotiable Certificates of 10,631.2 11,827.5 (1,196.2) Deposit Net Assets 9,273.3 9,353.2 (79.8) Total Shareholders’ Equity 7,001.2 6,559.9 441.3 Mar. 31, Mar. 31, Mar. 31, Mar. 31, Common Stock and 2014 2015 2016 2017 2,256.2 2,255.7 0.4 Preferred Stock * Other securities which have readily determinable fair values Capital Surplus 1,134.4 1,110.1 24.2 Retained Earnings 3,615.4 3,197.6 417.8 Treasury Stock (4.8) (3.6) (1.2) Total Accumulated Other 1,520.9 1,607.8 (86.8) Comprehensive Income Net Unrealized Gains 1,289.9 1,296.0 (6.0) (Losses) on Other Securities Deferred Gains or Losses 10.1 165.2 (155.0) on Hedges Revaluation Reserve for 145.6 148.4 (2.8) Land Foreign Currency (69.6) (53.6) (15.9) Translation Adjustments Remeasurements of 144.8 51.7 93.1 Defined Benefit Plans Stock Acquisition Rights 1.7 2.7 (1.0) Non-controlling Interests 749.3 1,182.6 (433.3) 2017 Integrated Report 94 Financial Review Loans Total Net Assets The combined total of loans for the Two Banks was JPY75,416.0 Net Assets amounted to JPY9,273.3 billion, decreased by JPY79.8 billion, an increase of JPY664.4 billion from FY2015. For our domestic billion from FY2015 due to increase in Retained Earnings by recording loan balance, while the balance of personal loans decreased, that Profit Attributable to Owners of Parent and decrease in Nonof large, medium and small businesses, and that such as Japanese controlling Interests and Deferred Gains or Losses on Hedges. government loans increased, resulting in an overall increase of JPY758.0 billion (including JPY920.9 billion loans to the Japanese government, etc.). Our overseas loan balance (including loans booked Non-Performing Loans (NPL) offshore) decreased by JPY93.6 billion, mainly due to a decrease in loans to the Japanese government, etc. while with a particularly The combined NPL balance of the Two Banks was JPY840.0 billion, marked increase in loans to non-Japanese customers in Europe. an increase of JPY19.9 billion from FY2015, and the NPL ratio was 1.00%. We maintained a good credit portfolio, with both the NPL Loan Balance (MHBK + MHTB, banking account + trust account) balance and ratio remaining stable in a low position. Domestic Loan Balance (JPY trillions) Overseas Loan Balance (JPY trillions) 70.9 74.9 74.7 75.4  isclosed Claims under the FRA* D (MHBK + MHTB, banking account + trust account) 13.8 18.4 19.2 19.1 Claims for Special Attention (JPY trillions) Claims with Collection Risk (JPY trillions) Claims against Bankrupt and Substantially Bankrupt Obligors (JPY trillions) NPL Ratio (%) 57.1 56.4 55.5 56.2 1.21 1.20 1.00 1.00 0.9 1.0 Mar. 31, Mar. 31, Mar. 31, Mar. 31, 0.8 0.8 2014 2015 2016 2017 Mar. 31, Mar. 31, Mar. 31, Mar. 31, Deposits 2014 2015 2016 2017 * Financial Reconstruction Act The combined domestic deposits of the Two Banks increased by JPY4,672.9 billion from FY2015 due to factors such as an increase in  isclosed Claims under the FRA D corporate deposits. (MHBK + MHTB, banking account + trust account) (JPY billions) Domestic Deposits (MHBK + MHTB) Change from March 31, March 31, March 31, Individual (JPY trillions) Corporate (JPY trillions) 2017 2016 2016 Financial/Government institutions (JPY trillions) 92.7 Claims against Bankrupt and 88.0 82.7 68.0 14.7 81.8 Substantially Bankrupt Obligors 77.0 7.1 7.4 5.8 Claims with Collection Risk 390.0 353.6 36.3 5.1 43.9 Claims for Special Attention 367.2 398.4 (31.1) 36.5 40.6 33.3 Subtotal 840.0 820.1 19.9 Normal claims 82,716.4 81,009.0 1,707.3 38.5 39.4 40.2 41.3 Total 83,556.4 81,829.2 1,727.2 NPL Ratio 1.00% 1.00% 0.00% Mar. 31, Mar. 31, Mar. 31, Mar. 31, 2014 2015 2016 2017 95 Mizuho Financial Group Financial Review Review and Analysis for Fiscal 2016 BIS Capital BIS Capital BIS Capital Ratio Common Equity Tier 1 Capital Ratio (Consolidated) (%) The common equity Tier 1 capital was JPY7,001.6 billion, an increase Tier 1 Capital Ratio (Consolidated) (%) Total Capital Ratio (Consolidated) (%) of JPY435.1 billion from FY2015, due to the increase in Retained 15.41 16.28 14.58 Earnings by recording Profit Attributable to Owners of Parent. 12.64 13.30 11.50 11.34 10.50 9.43 Risk Assets The risk-weighted assets were JPY61,717.1 billion, a decrease of Mar. 31, Mar. 31, Mar. 31, JPY814.0 billion from FY2015, due to a decrease in credit risk related 2015 2016 2017 assets. Mizuho continues to perform disciplined capital management policy which maintains the optimum balance between strengthening BIS Capital Ratio of stable capital base and steady returns to shareholders. In our medium-term business plan starting from FY2016, we aim The common equity Tier 1 ratio increased by 0.84% from FY2015 to to achieve a common equity Tier 1 capital ratio of approximately 10% 11.34%. by the end of the final year (FY2018) (fully-effective basis* (based on current regulations), excluding Net Unrealized Gains on Other BIS Capital Ratio (Consolidated) Securities), and enhance resilience to external environment stress. It (JPY billions) Change from was 9.27% as of March 31, 2017, and has made a solid progress. March 31, March 31, We will develop a resilient financial base that is able to March 31, 2017 2016 2016 withstand changes in a competitive environment by further improving Common Equity Tier 1 Capital profitability, and implementing measures to improve efficiency, quality 7,001.6 6,566.4 435.1 (CET1) and reduction of costs. Capital Stock, Surplus and * Calculated on a Basel III fully-effective basis at the end of FY2018. 7,000.6 6,460.3 540.3 Retained Earnings Additional Tier 1 Capital 1,209.8 1,338.6 (128.7) Dividend Policy Additional Tier 1 capital 760.0 300.0 460.0 instruments As for our policy to return profits to shareholders, we have Eligible Tier 1 capital instruments subject to phase577.5 1,144.0 (566.5) implemented a steady dividend payout policy setting a dividend out arrangements payout ratio on a consolidated basis of approximately 30% as a guide Tier 2 Capital 1,839.4 1,733.5 105.8 for our consideration. Tier 2 capital instruments 852.4 493.5 358.8 Based on this policy, we made cash dividend payments on Eligible Tier 2 capital common stock of JPY7.50 (JPY3.75 for interim dividends and instruments subject to phase842.1 962.9 (120.7) out arrangements JPY3.75 for year-end dividends) for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2017, the same amount as the annual dividend of the previous fiscal Total Capital 10,050.9 9,638.6 412.3 year. The Board of Directors of MHFG has considered thoroughly Risk-weighted Assets 61,717.1 62,531.1 (814.0) and decided it by taking into account our business environment Credit Risk Assets 56,060.0 57,588.4 (1,528.3) comprehensively such as the financial results for FY2016 in which Market Risk Equivalent Assets 2,282.8 1,696.0 586.7 Profit Attributable to Owners of Parent achieved earnings estimates, Operational Risk Equivalent 3,374.2 3,246.6 127.5 future earnings forecasts, profit base, status of capital adequacy, Assets Total Capital Ratio and domestic and international regulation trends such as the Basel 16.28% 15.41% 0.87% (Consolidated) framework. Tier 1 Capital Ratio 13.30% 12.64% 0.66% (Consolidated) Cash Dividend per Share of Common Stock (JPY) Common Equity Tier 1 Capital 11.34% 10.50% 0.84% 7.5 7.5 7.5 Ratio (Consolidated) 6.5 Status of Capital Adequacy FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 The total capital ratio, Tier 1 capital ratio and common equity Tier 1 Dividend Payout Ratio capital ratio at the end of March 2017 were 16.28%, 13.30% and 11.34%, respectively. 23% 30% 28% 31% 2017 Integrated Report 96 Company Information Office Network We utilize our office network, which covers every prefecture in Japan as well as major cities outside Japan, to respond to our customers’ diversified and globalizing financial needs while supporting their economic activities. Europe, the Middle East, and Africa Asia and Oceania MHBK 17 offices MHBK 45 offices MHTB 1 office MHSC 7 offices MHSC 3 offices Asset Management One 2 offices Asset Management One 1 office Amsterdam Brussels Düsseldorf London Frankfurt Tianjin Beijing Moscow Dalian Luxembourg Qingdao Paris Vienna Nanjing Seoul Wuxi Istanbul Hefei Madrid Suzhou Wuhan Zurich Tehran Xiamen Milan Bahrain Shanghai New Delhi Shenzhen Riyadh Guangzhou Taipei Dubai Hanoi Taichung Ahmedabad Kaohsiung Mumbai Hong Kong Bangalore-Devanahalli Manila Chennai Yangon Thilawa Bangkok Labuan Eastern Seaboard Phnom Penh Ho Chi Minh City Johannesburg Kuala Lumpur Singapore Sydney Jakarta 97 Mizuho Financial Group Company Information Office Network International Network (As of June 30, 2017) MHBK: 87 offices MHTB: 2 offices MHSC: 22 offices Asset Management One: 4 offices Overseas branch or relevant office Overseas subsidiary Overseas representative office Overseas subsidiary Overseas representative office Overseas subsidiary Overseas subsidiary Note: Overseas subsidiaries include head offices, branches or relevant offices, and representative offices of overseas subsidiaries. Americas MHBK 25 offices MHTB 1 office MHSC 12 offices Asset Management One 1 office Calgary Chicago Toronto Boston Vancouver Hoboken New York San Francisco Philadelphia Atlanta Houston Los Angeles Nassau Mexico City Cayman Network in Japan (As of June 30, 2017) MHBK Head Office and Branches: 421 Sub-branches: 45 MHTB Head Office and Branches: 36 São Paulo Sub-branches: 21 MHSC Santiago Tokyo Head Office and regional head offices: 3 • MHBK opened Mizuho Bank Mexico, a full service financial Branches: 104 institution and a fully-owned subsidiary, in March 2017. Planet Booths*: 166 • MHBK opened the Phnom Penh Branch in April 2017. Sales Office: 1 *Planet Booths are the consulting booths • Mizuho Bank Mexico has started preparations to open an of MHSC located in MHBK’s Branches office in León, Mexico in fiscal 2017. 2017 Integrated Report 98 Company Information Group Companies (As of March 31, 2017, except for each company’s network, which is as of June 30, 2017) Mizuho Bank Offering the Best Financial Solutions through the Group’s Comprehensive Strengths MHBK is a leading bank with one of the largest customer bases in Japan and a network encompassing the major financial and business centers around the world. MHBK collaborates with the group’s trust banking, securities, asset management, and think tank entities, in order to offer the best financial solutions to a wide range of customers by bringing together the group’s comprehensive strengths and demonstrating its consulting capability. Each and every member of management and employee will fully implement the “Customer First” principle (customer-focused perspective) and will constantly develop and implement new approaches to help customers overcome and resolve the issues they face. Along with this, we are working to increase customer convenience and bring them greater satisfaction by enhancing our products and services and reforming operational processes with flexibility. Our Goal: The Best Financial Solutions Partner Our aim is to be our customers’ best financial solutions partner, supporting them in the pursuit of their dreams. Under the group’s medium-term business plan entitled Progressive Development of “One MIZUHO”: The Path to a Financial Services Consulting Group, we will maintain close relationships with society and our customers as they face major environmental changes. In doing so, we will share their issues and lead the way to solutions as we strive to become the “Only One” bank that customers feel they can depend on and want to consult first. Koji Fujiwara President & CEO Mizuho Bank, Ltd. Corporate Profile Date of Establishment: July 1, 2013 Number of Employees: 29,848 Capital: JPY1,404.0 billion Domestic Network: Head Office and Branches: 421 Location of Head Office: Sub-branches: 45 1-5-5, Otemachi, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo 100-8176, Japan Overseas Network: Tel: +81-(0)3-3214-1111 Branches: 26 Relevant Offices: 17 Representative Offices: 5 Subsidiaries: 39 Representative: Koji Fujiwara, President & CEO (Appointed on April 1, 2017) Website: https://www.mizuhobank.com/ 99 Mizuho Financial Group Company Information Group Companies Mizuho Trust & Banking Providing Consulting Functions that Make Full Use of Our High Level of Trust-related Expertise Aiming to realize our goal of becoming a financial services consulting group cited in the group’s medium-term business plan, MHTB provides consulting functions that make full use of a high level of trust-related expertise to meet the diversified customer needs. In order to address customer needs in areas such as inheritance, asset/business succession, real estate, asset liquidation/ securitization, stock transfer agency business, and pensions, we collaborate with the group’s banking, securities, asset management, and think tank entities; and we provide the optimum trust products and services through consulting to all of Mizuho’s customers. Our Goal: The Most Reliable Trust Banking Company We will endeavor to become the most reliable trust banking company by responding to our customer expectations for trust-related services as we place thoroughgoing emphasis on our “Customer First” Principle (customer-focused perspective) and work to take the One MIZUHO Strategy to the next level. Our customers face a range of issues, such as the need for steady asset building and smooth succession of assets to the next generation, the diversification and sophistication from the conventional type of investments weighted heavily towards savings and deposits, and the reform of corporate governance. Using our function for providing sophisticated trust solutions, we will help resolve those issues, thereby contributing to the prosperity of customers, society, and the economy. Tetsuo Iimori President & CEO Mizuho Trust & Banking Co., Ltd. Corporate Profile Date of Establishment: March 12, 2003 Number of Employees: 3,266 Capital: JPY247.3 billion Domestic Network: Head Office and Branches: 36 Location of Head Office: Sub-branches: 21 (Trust Lounges: 20) 1-2-1, Yaesu, Chuo-ku, Tokyo 103-8670, Japan Overseas Network: Tel: +81-(0)3-3278-8111 Subsidiaries: 2 Representative: Tetsuo Iimori, President & CEO (Appointed on April 1, 2017) Website: https://www.mizuho-tb.co.jp/english/ 2017 Integrated Report 100 Company Information Group Companies (As of March 31, 2017, except for each company’s network, which is as of June 30, 2017) Mizuho Securities Offering Sophisticated Value-added Securities Services as One MIZUHO In aiming to offer sophisticated value-added securities services which resonate with our customers, MHSC pursues One MIZUHO Strategy which brings together banking, trust banking, and securities functions under one umbrella to provide products and services of the highest quality. For individual customers, we offer a wide range of financial products including equity, bonds, and investment trusts as well as timely investment information through our branch network in Japan, which is the largest in the industry. We also ensure our customers are able to tap into the highly-advanced financial services and professional knowhow of the entire group in collaboration with our group companies. To meet our corporate customers’ needs, we offer exceptional support tailored to their business strategies via diverse investment banking solutions (IPOs, financing, business succession, etc.), sophisticated investment products, and investment information. Our Goal: Our Customers’ Most-trusted Partner and Their First Choice among Securities Companies In line with Mizuho’s aim to serve as a financial services consulting group, we at MHSC—Mizuho’s one and only comprehensive securities services provider—aim to serve as our customers’ mosttrusted partner and their first choice among securities companies. To achieve this aim, we will continue to dedicate our efforts to further enhancing our incomparable financial expertise as well as the unparalleled quality of our products to more effectively uncover and address the needs of our customers. Tatsufumi Sakai President & CEO Mizuho Securities Co., Ltd. Corporate Profile Date of Establishment: January 4, 2013 Number of Employees: 7,285 Capital: JPY125.1 billion Domestic Network: Tokyo Head Office and regional head offices: 3 Location of Head Office: Branches: 104 Otemachi First Square, 1-5-1, Otemachi, Planet Booths: 166 Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo Sales Office: 1 100-0004, Japan Tel: +81-(0)3-5208-3210 Overseas Network: Representative Offices: 2 Representative: Subsidiaries: 20 Tatsufumi Sakai, President & CEO Website: https://www.mizuho-sc.com/english/ 101 Mizuho Financial Group Company Information Group Companies Mizuho Research Institute (MHRI) Mizuho Information & Research Institute (MHIR) MHRI is one of Japan’s leading think tanks, with a research division, With IT as its core technology, MHIR is a professional organization consulting division, and unique corporate membership services. MHRI with more than 4,000 employees that provides assistance to uses its excellent analytical skills and the organization’s network in corporations in increasing their corporate value through its consulting, Japan and overseas to provide information, policy recommendations, system integration, and outsourcing services. and consulting services to solve the specific issues of the national government, local governments, and private companies. Date of Establishment October 1, 2002 Date of Establishment October 1, 2004 Capital JPY900 million Capital JPY1,627 million Location of Head Office 1-2-1, Uchisaiwaicho, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo Location of Head Office 2-3 Kanda-Nishikicho, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo Representative Hideyuki Takahashi, President & CEO (Appointed on June 29, 2017) Representative Junichi Nishizawa, President & CEO Number of Employees 308 Number of Employees 4,310 Website https://www.mizuho-ri.co.jp/english/ Website https://www.mizuho-ir.co.jp/english/ Asset Management One Trust & Custody Services Bank (TCSB) Asset Management One is an asset management company in which As Mizuho’s trust bank specializing in asset administration, TCSB Mizuho and Dai–ichi Life Holdings both have equity holdings. Asset will continue to provide high-quality, high-value-added trust and Management One collaborates with its offices in Europe, the US, and custody services to customers, including large institutional investors. Asia to offer investment trust products to individuals and corporate As of March 31, 2017, the balance of assets under custody and customers, as well as provide investment advisory services to administration exceeded JPY385 trillion, one of the largest such customers including Japanese and overseas pension funds. balances in Japan. Date of Establishment October 1, 2016 Date of Establishment January 22, 2001 Capital JPY2,000 million Capital JPY50,000 million Location of Head Office Tekko Building, 1-8-2 Marunouchi, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo Location of Head Office Tower Z, Harumi Triton Square, 1-8-12, Harumi, Chuo-ku, Tokyo Representative Yasumasa Nishi, President & CEO Representative Akira Moriwaki, President & CEO Number of Employees 953 Number of Employees 652 Overseas Network Subsidiaries 4 Website http://www.tcsb.co.jp/english/ Website http://www.am-one.co.jp/english/ Mizuho Private Wealth Management (MHPW) Mizuho Americas MHPW offers consulting services tailored to the needs of its Mizuho Americas was established as a US bank holding company customers. These services range from consulting on customers’ with Mizuho’s primary US-based banking, trust banking, and financial matters such as wealth management, arranging for business securities entities under it to meet the US regulations governing the inheritance to advice on customers’ individual matters, including operations of foreign banks. To further increase its competitiveness health of the customers themselves as well as family members and in the US, which is the world’s largest financial market, Mizuho children’s education. Americas is proactively strengthening its governance framework, and, while promoting the collaboration of its banking, trust banking, and securities operations, it is conducting management and other activities that are necessary for expanding its profit base. Date of Establishment October 3, 2005 Date of Establishment June 20, 2016 Capital JPY500 million Capital USD3,929 million Location of Head Office 1-1-5, Uchisaiwaicho, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo Location of Head Office 1251 Avenue of the Americas, New York, NY 10020, USA Representative Takeru Watanabe, President Representative Hiroshi Suehiro, CEO Number of Employees 32 Website https://www.mizuhoamericas.com/ Notes: 1. The representatives of each company have representation rights. 2. The number of employees does not include each company’s employees dispatched outside each company while it includes employees dispatched from outside each company. This figure also includes overseas local staff but excludes executive officers and temporary employees. 3. Overseas subsidiaries include head offices, branches, and representative offices of subsidiaries. 2017 Integrated Report 102 Company Information Corporate Profile (As of March 31, 2017) Company Name: Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. Stock Listing (Code): Tokyo Stock Exchange (8411) New York Stock Exchange (MFG) Location of Head Office: 1-5-5, Otemachi, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo 100-8176, Japan Tel: +81-(0)3-5224-1111 Representative: Yasuhiro Sato, President & Group CEO Capital: JPY2,256.2 billion Issued Shares: 25,386,307,945 shares Number of Employees: 1,359 (Total number of employees on a consolidated basis: 59,179) Date of Establishment: January 8, 2003 ■ Rating Information (As of June 30, 2017) R&I JCR Moody’s S&P Fitch MHFG A+ AAA1 AAMHBK AAAA A1 A AMHTB AAAA A1 A AMHSC AAAA A1 A — (Reference) Japanese Government AA+ AAA A1 A+ A 103 Mizuho Financial Group Appendix 2017 Integrated Report 104 Appendix Compliance Contacts “Internal Controls and Audit Hotline” —A system designed for obtaining concerns regarding questionable accounting or auditing matters— Reporting Items: MHFG has established a hotline to receive reports • When reported matters are within the scope of the reporting items, from in and outside the company in connection with MHFG will do reasonable efforts to investigate the facts behind the problems concerning internal controls and audits of information received and report back on the results. accounts and financial reports. • Anonymous tips are also acceptable, but there are cases where it Contact Point: This hotline has been established within an external will not be possible to fully satisfy the intentions behind such tips law office. Please use conventional mail or e-mail for owing to constraints on investigations and the inability to report reporting. back. Conventional mail: 12th Floor, Kasumigaseki Bldg., • Information on persons making such reports is not disclosed to Kasumigaseki 3-2-5, Chiyoda-ku, third parties other than the group companies except in cases where Tokyo 100-6012 the assent of the person in question has been obtained or such Mizuho Accounting Hotline, c/o disclosure is required under laws and ordinances, etc Daiichi Fuyo Law Office E-mail: kaikei-mizuho@daiichifuyo.gr.jp Approaches to the Financial Alternative Dispute Resolution (ADR) System In order to deal expeditiously, fairly and appropriately with complaints, The Designated Dispute Resolution Institution as Defined in Japan’s etc., from customers, MHBK and MHTB have concluded the basic Banking Act which MHBK and MHTB Concluded the Basic Contract contract for the implementation of dispute resolution procedures with with the Japanese Bankers Association, which is a designated dispute The Designated Dispute Resolution Institution:  resolution institution as defined in Japan’s Banking Act. MHTB has the Japanese Bankers Association also concluded the basic contract for the implementation of dispute Contact: Advisory Center of the Japanese Bankers Association resolution procedures with the Trust Companies Association of Japan, Tel.: +81-(0)3-5252-3772 which is a designated dispute resolution institution as defined in Japan’s Trust Business Act and Act on Concurrent Operation, etc. of The Designated Dispute Resolution Institution as Defined in Japan’s Trust Business by Financial Institutions. Trust Business Act and Act on Concurrent Operation, etc. of Trust The designated dispute resolution institution takes the steps Business by Financial Institutions which MHTB Concluded the Basic toward resolution from a fair and neutral perspective in cases where Contract with the solutions to customers’ complaints adopted by the two banks are The Designated Dispute Resolution Institution:  not accepted. Trust Companies Association of Japan Contact: Trust Consultation Center of the Trust Companies Association of Japan Tel.: +81-(0)3-6206-3988 105 Mizuho Financial Group Appendix Management Support for SME Customers and Regional Revitalization Management Support for SME Customers Mizuho shares information on the needs and issues of its customers at various stages in their development, offers them proposals for solutions, and supports their implementation Through drawing fully on its consulting capabilities for providing and succession, and support for innovative companies with proposals and solutions for addressing management issues, Mizuho exceptional technologies or ideas. fulfills its responsibilities as a financial institution by providing support Furthermore, the specialized section to support business for customers’ business expansion and succession and business revitalization within the credit group in Mizuho works intensively restructuring based on a good understanding of customers’ to provide support for SME customers’ business improvement perspectives. and business revitalization. In addition, Head Office and frontlines In particular, through growth strategy support based on cooperatively provide consultation and support for customers, consulting, we actively provide a range of business management collaborating with external organizations, external specialists, and support including M&A from the standpoint of business expansion other financial institutions. Regional Revitalization Initiatives As a result of the trend in Japan toward concentration of businesses return to regional areas is an urgent task. Utilizing our office network and other activities solely in Tokyo, regional populations are expected in Japan, we are striving to promote the revitalization of regional to decline and their economies to shrink in the future. Revitalization economies by providing our customers with smooth supplies of of regional towns through a virtuous circle in which people and jobs funding, engaging in management consultations, and collaborating with regional governments. Case Example Supporting Recovery in Disaster Areas of the Great East Japan Earthquake – Syndicated Loan to Miraiships The shipbuilding industry in Kesennuma-shi, Miyagi Prefecture suffered catastrophic damage during the March 2011 earthquake disaster, with facilities destroyed by the tsunami, and ground subsidence in shipyard sites. The recovery of Kesennuma, one of the main marine products cities in Japan, is essential to the revitalization of the shipbuilding industry. Miraiships, comprising mainly four shipbuilding companies damaged in the disaster, was established to strengthen the business foundation for the shipbuilding industry in Kesennuma, and construct a shipyard with cutting-edge facilities at a new site. The capital to construct the new shipyard was provided by subsidies from the Ministry of Land, Architectural rendering of the new shipyard Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism, along with a syndicated loan formed by MHBK together with local financial institutions. Mizuho will continue to support revitalization efforts in the area. Initiatives Related to Finance Facilitation and Guidelines for Personal Guarantee Provided by Business Owners Finance Facilitation Guidelines for Personal Guarantee Provided by Business Owners Earnestly determined to fulfill a financial institution’s social role of Mizuho, in line with Guidelines for Personal Guarantee Provided facilitating finance, Mizuho works to promote facilitating finance in by Business Owners, is working to establish and maintain good accordance with the group’s fundamental policies by appropriately relationships of trust with its customers. responding to such customer requests as those for new loans and In addition, along with joint guarantee with a termination clause, loan condition adjustments, and by striving to utilize its consulting we offer and promote alternative lending methods to personal functions. guarantee provided by business owners, and have established a structure for cooperation between frontlines and the Head Office to encourage utilization. 2017 Integrated Report 106 Appendix Internal Audit Structure Basic Approach Internal audits are designed as an integrated process, independent process, internal audits assist the Boards of Directors of each of from other business operations, for evaluating the extent to which our group companies to fulfill their managerial duties efficiently and internal control achieves its objectives in key areas, including effectively. appropriate risk management, efficient and effective business In line with the Basic Policy for Internal Audit established by operations, reliable financial reporting and compliance with laws, MHFG, our core group companies conduct internal audits, which regulations and internal rules. We conduct internal audits from an include the internal auditing of their respective subsidiaries. In objective and comprehensive standpoint, independent of operational addition, with respect to the management of risks applicable across reporting lines, and offer advice and remedial recommendations in the group, we coordinate internal audits throughout the group to connection with any problems that may be identified. Through this assess the risk management status of the group as a whole. Internal Audit Management Structure MHFG Other Core Group Companies Our Internal Audit Committee determines all important matters Other core group companies have also established effective and concerning internal audits. The committee is chaired by the President efficient internal audit structures adapted to the characteristics of their & Group CEO and is independent of our other business operations. respective businesses. Our Internal Audit Committee monitors and manages internal audits at our core group companies through internal audit reports submitted Internal Audit Management Structure by such subsidiaries. MHFG Our Internal Audit Committee discusses and makes decisions Supervision, regarding internal audits at our core group companies and submits Board of Directors Audit Committee Audit the results, together with the results of their examination of the internal audit reports, to the Audit Committee and our Board of Directors. President & Group CEO Internal Audit Committee (Chairman: President & Group CEO) MHBK and MHTB Management MHBK and MHTB have also established Internal Audit Committees Internal Audit Group that are independent of their other business operations. The two Internal Audit banks have established internal audit departments and credit review Every Internal Audit Department organizational unit departments (Credit Assessment and Auditing Office at MHTB) to conduct internal audits at their respective domestic and overseas business offices, head office departments and group companies. Advice, guidance Specifically, the internal audit departments assess the suitability and Management by Report the results and remedial MHFG of internal audit, etc. effectiveness of business activities associated with compliance and recommendations risk management. The credit review departments (Credit Assessment and Auditing Office at MHTB) audit credit ratings and the status MHBK, MHTB, MHSC and other core group companies of credit management in addition to auditing the self-assessment of assets to verify the accuracy and suitability of matters deemed Subsidiaries of the above group companies necessary to assure the soundness of assets. (As of June 23, 2017) 107 Mizuho Financial Group Appendix Risk Management Structure Commitment to Risk Management Basic Approach Risk Management Structure Amid the growing diversity and complexity of banking operations, MHFG financial institutions are exposed to various risks, including credit, Supervision/ Board of Directors Risk Committee market operations, information technology, legal, settlement and Audit other risks. We recognize the conducting of operations tailored to the risks and managing such risks as a key issue relating to overall Executive Management Committee management. In order to implement our business strategy while President & Group CEO maintaining our financial stability, we maintain comprehensive risk Business Policy Committees Officer responsible for (Risk Management Committee, etc.) Management management and control measures. risk management (Group CRO, etc.) MHFG maintains basic policies for risk management established by its Board of Directors that are applicable to the entire group. These Risk Management Department policies clearly define the kinds of risks to be managed, set forth the Credit Risk Management Department organizational structure and provide for the human resources training Departments responsible for risk management necessary for appropriate levels of risk management. The policies also provide for audits to measure the effectiveness and suitability • Set risk management policies • Report the risk management situations of the risk management structure. In line with these basic policies, • Give instructions and approvals concerning • Submit applications concerning risk we maintain various measures to strengthen and enhance the risk management management sophistication of our risk management system. Core group companies Risk Management Structure Mizuho Other core group MHBK MHTB MHSC Americas companies Each of our subsidiaries adopts appropriate risk management measures for its business based on the size and nature of its risk exposures, while MHFG controls risk management for the group as MHBK MHTB a whole. At MHFG, the Risk Management Committee chaired by the Supervision/ Group Chief Risk Officer (Group CRO) provides integrated monitoring Board of Directors Audit and Supervisory Committee Audit and management of the overall risk for the group. The Group CRO reports the risk management situation to the Board of Directors, the President & CEO Executive Management Committee Risk Committee, the Executive Management Committee and the President & Group CEO, on a regular basis and as needed. MHFG Business Policy Committees regularly receives reports and applications concerning the risk Management Officer responsible for risk management management situation from our core group companies and gives (CRO, etc.) them appropriate instructions concerning risk management. Our core group companies each maintains its own system for managing Risk Management Department <Market operations> Middle offices Credit Risk Management Department various types of risk, regularly receiving reports on the status of risk at Departments responsible for risk management their respective subsidiaries, and gives them appropriate instructions concerning risk management. • Set risk management policies • Report the risk management situations • Give instructions and approvals concerning • Submit applications concerning risk risk management management Subsidiaries managed by the core group companies 2017 Integrated Report 108 Appendix Approach to the Basel Regulatory Framework Basel III Framework, the regulations for international standards A leverage ratio also has been implemented under “Pillar 3” of the health of banks, is being phased in from 2013, which from March 31, 2015 and we began disclosing it accordingly. consists of minimum capital requirements, a leverage ratio Also a global liquidity standard has been implemented under and a global liquidity standard. Basel III is based on the Basel “Pillar 1” from March 31, 2015 in Japan, and we have been II framework which requires the observance of “three pillars.” calculating and disclosing our liquidity coverage ratio pursuant “Pillar 1” is minimum requirements relating to risk which should to such standard. be maintained by banks. “Pillar 2” is the self-disciplined risk Glossary management by financial institutions with a supervisory review Advanced Internal Ratings Based (AIRB) Approach process. “Pillar 3” is market discipline allowing for assessment AIRB is one of the calculation methods for credit risk assets by the market through appropriate disclosure. provided for by Basel II. Under AIRB, both probability of default We have been calculating our capital adequacy ratios and loss given default used for calculation of credit risk assets by applying the Advanced Internal Ratings Based approach are estimated by the bank’s own internal experiences. for the calculation of credit risk from March 31, 2009 and the Advanced Measurement Approach for the calculation of Advanced Measurement Approach (AMA) operational risk from September 30, 2009. In Japan, from March AMA is one of the calculation methods for operational risk 31, 2013, the minimum capital requirements based on Basel III assets provided for by Basel II. AMA is a risk asset calculation began to be phased in, and we have been calculating capital method based on statistics that not only utilizes data from adequacy ratios based on the revisions to capital adequacy internal losses experienced by the company, but also utilizes guidelines published by the Financial Services Agency. The scenario data to calculate the impact of events that may be Basel Committee continues to review the treatments related experienced in the future. to capital requirements. We will comply with new requirements appropriately. We have been identified as a G-SIB by the Financial Stability Board since November 2015, and the stricter capital requirements began to be phased in from March 31, 2016. General Concept of Risk Management Basic Approach We classify our risk exposures according to the various kinds of risk, quantitative terms. In line with the basic policies relating to overall including credit risk, market risk, liquidity risk and operational risk, and risk management laid down by MHFG, companies within the group manage each type of risk according to its characteristics. In addition identify risk broadly and take a proactive and sophisticated approach to managing each type of risk individually, we have established a to risk management, including methodologies for operations that risk management structure to identify and evaluate overall risk and, involve exposures to multiple categories of risk such as settlement where necessary, to devise appropriate responses to keep risk and trust businesses. within limits that are managerially acceptable in both qualitative and 109 Mizuho Financial Group Appendix Risk Management Structure Risk Capital Allocation We endeavor to obtain a clear grasp of the group’s overall risk equity and other measures of financial strength. To ensure the exposure and have implemented measures to keep such risks ongoing financial soundness of the group, we regularly monitor within the group’s financial base in accordance with the risk capital the manner in which risk capital is being used in order to obtain a allocation framework. proper grasp of the risk profile within this framework. Reports are More specifically, we allocate risk capital to our core group also submitted to the Board of Directors and other committees of companies, including their respective subsidiaries, to control risk each company. Risk capital is allocated to MHBK, MHTB, MHSC and within the limits set for each company. We also control risk within Mizuho Americas by risk category, and is further allocated within their managerially acceptable limits by working to ensure that the overall respective business units based on established frameworks. risk we hold on a consolidated basis does not exceed shareholders’ Allocation of Risk Capital MHFG (Example) The group’s financial The group’s risk exposure MHBK strength Risk limits, etc., based on risk capital are set, and controls are imposed on each type of risk. Credit risk Allocated risk capital MHBK Market risk Allocation Core group companies’ to each MHTB Equity risk business unit Operational risk MHSC Group companies, etc. risk exposure* Capital, etc. Mizuho Americas MHTB MHSC Other risk exposure Mizuho Americas * Including risk exposures of the subsidiaries of the core group companies As part of our risk capital allocation management, we create Assessment of Balance between Risk under Stressed Condition and multiple risk scenarios common to the group, based on which we Capital and our core group companies calculate potential losses and risk 1. Development • Current economic conditions, economic outlook, etc. of Stress • Occurrence of historical stress events, etc. amount arising from assumed stress events across all risk types. The Scenarios Create multiple risk scenarios common to the group calculated losses and risk amount are used for assessing internal capital adequacy and verifying whether they balance with the group’s 2. Measurement Measure the impacts of stress events on the group capital. of Impacts of based on the stress scenarios created The risk scenarios for stress testing are formulated by taking Stress Events [Key items to be calculated] Losses, VaR, etc. into account the current economic conditions and the economic outlook and by assuming historical stress events, etc. from a risk 3. Analysis and management perspective to measure the impacts of stress events by Utilization of Utilize stress test results for internal capital adequacy Stress Test assessments, etc. scenario. Results 2017 Integrated Report 110 Appendix Credit Risk Management Basic Approach We define credit risk as the group’s exposure to the risk of losses that approach is “credit management,” in which we manage the process may be incurred due to a decline in, or total loss of, the value of assets for each individual transaction and individual obligor from execution (including off-balance-sheet instruments), as a result of deterioration until collection, based on our assessment of the credit quality of the in obligors’ financial position. We have established the methods and customer. Through this process, we curb losses in the case of a structures necessary for grasping and managing credit risk. credit event. The second is “credit portfolio management,” in which MHFG manages credit risk for the group as a whole. we utilize statistical methods to assess the potential for losses related More specifically, we have adopted two different but mutually to credit risk. Through this process, we identify credit risks and complementary approaches in credit risk management. The first respond appropriately. Credit Risk Management Structure Credit Risk Management of MHFG The business policy committees established respectively by Our Board of Directors determines the group’s basic matters MHBK and MHTB (the two banks) are responsible for discussing and pertaining to credit risk management. In addition, the Risk coordinating overall management of their individual credit portfolios Management Committee of MHFG broadly discusses and coordinates and transaction policies toward obligors. The respective Chief matters relating to basic policies and operations in connection with Risk Officers of the two banks are responsible for matters relating credit risk management and matters relating to credit risk monitoring to planning and implementing credit risk management. The credit for the group. Under the control of the Group CRO of MHFG, the risk management departments of the two banks are in charge of Credit Risk Management Department and the Risk Management planning and administering credit risk management and conducting Department jointly monitor, analyze and submit suggestions credit risk measuring and monitoring. The departments regularly concerning credit risk and formulate and execute plans in connection present reports regarding their risk management situation to MHFG. with basic matters pertaining to credit risk management. The credit departments of the two banks determine policies and approve/disapprove individual transactions in terms of credit review, Credit Risk Management at Our Core Group Companies credit management and collection from customers in accordance Our core group companies manage their credit risk according to the with the lines of authority set forth respectively by the two banks. In scale and nature of their exposures in line with basic policies set forth addition, the two banks have established internal audit groups that by MHFG. The Board of Directors of each company determines key are independent of the business departments in order to ensure matters pertaining to credit risk management. appropriate credit risk management. Individual Credit Management Credit Codes consist of obligor ratings which represent the level of credit risk of The basic code of conduct for all of our officers and employees the obligor, and transaction ratings which represent the possibility of engaged in the credit business is set forth in our credit code. Seeking ultimately incurring losses related to each individual claim by taking to fulfill the bank’s public and social role, our basic policy for credit into consideration the nature of any collateral or guarantee and the business is determined in light of fundamental principles focusing on seniority of the claim. In principle, obligor ratings apply to all obligors public welfare, safety, growth and profitability. and are subject to regular reviews at least once a year to reflect promptly the fiscal period end financial results of the obligors, as well Internal Rating System as special reviews as required whenever the obligor’s credit standing One of the most important elements of the risk management changes. This enables the two banks to monitor both individual infrastructure of the two banks is the use of an internal rating system obligors and the status of the overall portfolio in a timely fashion. that consists of credit ratings and pool allocations. Credit ratings Because we consider obligor ratings to be an initial phase of the 111 Mizuho Financial Group Appendix Risk Management Structure self-assessment process regarding the quality of our loans and offPool allocations are applied to small claims that are less than balance-sheet instruments, such obligor ratings are closely linked a specified amount by pooling customers and claims with similar to the obligor classifications and are an integral part of the process risk characteristics and assessing and managing the risk for each for determining the reserves for loan losses and write-offs in our such pool. We efficiently manage credit risk and credit screening self-assessment of loans and off-balance-sheet instruments (please by dispersing a sufficient number of small claims within each pool. refer to Connection between Obligor Ratings, Definition of Obligor We generally review the appropriateness and effectiveness of our Classifications of Self-Assessments, Claims Disclosed under the FRA approach to obligor ratings and pool allocations once a year in and Non-Accrual, Past Due & Restructured Loans). accordance with predetermined procedures. Connection between Obligor Ratings, Definition of Obligor Classifications of Self-Assessments, Claims Disclosed under the FRA and NonAccrual, Past Due & Restructured Loans Definition of Obligor Category I Category IV Non-Accrual, Obligor Ratings Claims Disclosed Classifications of Definition of Ratings (NonCategory II Category III (NonPast Due & (Major Category) under the FRA Self-Assessment Categorized) Collateralized) Restructured Loans Obligors whose certainty of debt fulfillment is very A1—A3 high, hence their level of credit risk is excellent. Obligors whose certainty of debt fulfillment poses B1—B2 no problems for the foreseeable future, hence their level of credit risk is sufficient. All credit Normal given to Obligors Obligors whose certainty of debt fulfillment and Normal C1—C3 their level of credit risk pose no problems for the Normal Claims Obligors. foreseeable future. Obligors whose current certainty of debt fulfillment D1—D3 poses no problems, however, their resistance to future environmental changes is low. E1 Obligors who require close watching going forward because there are problems with their borrowings, Credit given to such as reduced or suspended interest payments, Watch Obligors Restructured Watch problems with fulfillment such as de facto other than those Claims for Loans Obligors E2 R postponements of principal or interest payments, included in Special or problems with their financial positions as a Category I. Loans Past Due Attention result of their poor or unstable business conditions. for 3 Months or More Obligors who are not yet bankrupt but are in Credit given to financial difficulties and are deemed to be very Intensive Control Intensive likely to go bankrupt in the future because they are Credit to Obligors other obligors which Claims with Control F1 finding it difficult to make progress in implementing than those has pledged Collection Risk Obligors their management improvement plans (including included in obligors who are receiving ongoing support from collateral or is Category I and financial institutions). covered by Category II. Non-Accrual guarantees, Delinquent considered of Credit to The difference Credit to Loans Obligors who have not yet gone legally or formally high quality, obligors which between the Bankrupt and Substantially such as deposit is covered by assessed value Substantially bankrupt but who are substantially bankrupt Bankrupt G1 collateral. general and market value Bankrupt because they are in serious financial difficulties Obligors collateral, such of collateral on Obligors, other Claims against and are not deemed to be capable of restructuring. as real estate credit to Bankrupt than those in Bankrupt and and guarantees. and Substantially Category I, Substantially Bankrupt Obligors Category II and Bankrupt (i.e., the portion Category III Obligors, and of loans for which (credit that is equivalent Loans to Bankrupt Obligors who have already gone bankrupt, from final collection judged to be H1 Bankrupt Obligors both a legal and/or formal perspective. problems or unrecoverable Obligors losses are or without anticipated). value). 2017 Integrated Report 112 Appendix Method for Reserves and Write-Offs Normal Calculate the value of estimated loss based on the probability of failure over the coming year for loans by obligor rating and appropriate it for the General Obligors Reserve for Possible Losses on Loans. Calculate the estimated loss on loans based on the probability of failure over the next three years and appropriate it for the General Reserve for Possible Losses Watch on Loans. Further, in regard to Special Attention Obligors, for obligors with large claims more than a certain amount, if the cash flow from the return of principal Obligors and interest payments can reasonably be estimated, set up a reserve under the DCF method. Provide an amount for Specific Reserve for Possible Losses on Loans as calculated by one of the following methods after deducting amounts anticipated to be Intensive recoverable from the sale of collateral held against the claims and from guarantors of the claims: a) an amount calculated based on the overall ability of the Control obligor to pay, or b) the estimated loss calculated on the basis of the balance and the probability of failure over the next three years. Obligors Further, for obligors with large claims more than a certain amount, if the cash flow from the return of principal and interest payments can reasonably be estimated, set up a reserve under the DCF method. Substantially Bankrupt Obligors Provide the entire balance after deducting amounts anticipated to be recoverable from the sale of collateral held against the claims and from guarantors of the claims for Specific Reserve for Possible Losses on Loans, or write-off the entire balance. Bankrupt Obligors Self-assessment, Reserves for Loan Losses, Off-balance Sheet Credit Review Instruments and Write-offs Prevention of new non-performing loans through routine credit We conduct self-assessment of assets to ascertain the status of management is important in maintaining the quality of our overall assets both as an integral part of credit risk management and in loan assets. Credit review involves analysis and screening of each preparation for appropriate accounting treatment, including reserves potential transaction within the relevant business department. In case for loan losses and off-balance-sheet instruments and write-offs. the screening exceeds the authority of the department, the credit During the process of self-assessment, obligors are categorized into group at headquarters carries out the review. The credit group has certain groups taking into consideration their financial condition and specialist departments for different industries, business sizes and their ability to make payments, and credit ratings are assigned to regions, carries out timely and specialized examinations based on all obligors, in principle, to reflect the extent of their credit risks. The the characteristics of the customer and its market, and provides related assets are then categorized into certain classes based on the appropriate advice to the business department. In addition, in the risk of impairment. This process allows us to identify and control the case of obligors with low obligor ratings and high downside risks, the actual quality of assets and determine the appropriate accounting business department and credit department jointly clarify their credit treatment, including reserves for loan losses and off-balance-sheet policy and in appropriate cases assist obligors at an early stage in instruments and write-offs. Specifically, the credit risk management working toward credit soundness. department of each bank is responsible for the overall control of the self-assessment of assets of the respective banks, cooperating with the administrative departments specified for each type of asset, including loan portfolios and securities, in executing and managing self-assessments. 113 Mizuho Financial Group Appendix Risk Management Structure Portfolio Management Loss Distribution Risk Measurement Frequency We use statistical methods to manage the possibility of losses by measuring the expected average loss for a one-year risk horizon This amount depends on the Average (Expected Loss) and the maximum loss within a certain confidence confidence interval. For example, if the confidence interval is set at interval (“credit Value-at-Risk (VaR)”). The difference between 99%, it is the 9,900th smallest expected loss and credit VaR is measured as the credit risk amount loss figure out of 10,000 trials. (Unexpected Loss). In establishing transaction spread guidelines for credit transactions, we aim to ensure an appropriate return from the transaction in light of the level of risk by utilizing credit cost data Loss Amount as a reference. Also, we monitor our credit portfolio from various Credit VaR perspectives and set guidelines noted below so that losses incurred through a hypothetical realization of the full credit VaR would be within Expected Loss Unexpected Loss the amount of risk capital and loan loss reserves. Risk Control Methods We recognize two types of risk arising from allowing unexpected loss to become too large. One type is “credit concentration risk,” which stems from granting excessive credit to certain individual counterparties or corporate groups. The other type is “chain-reaction default risk,” which arises from granting excessive credit to certain areas, industrial sectors and other groupings. We make appropriate management to control these risks in line with our specific guidelines for each. The individual risk management departments of the two banks are responsible for monitoring adherence to these guidelines and reporting to their respective business policy committees (please refer to Allocation of Risk Capital and Control of Credit Risk). Allocation of Risk Capital and Control of Credit Risk Allocation of risk capital Credit VaR Credit concentration risk Chain reaction default risk 1 Individual company credit 3 Geographical area/country-based guidelines credit guidelines Control 2 Corporate group-based credit 4 Industrial sector-based credit guidelines guidelines MHBK: Sets 1 2 3 4 MHTB: Sets 1 2 4 Equivalent to credit concentration risk amounts Equivalent to chain reaction default risk amounts 2017 Integrated Report 114 Appendix Market and Liquidity Risk Management Basic Approach We define market risk as the risk of losses incurred by the group due the risk of losses arising from funding difficulties due to a deterioration to fluctuations in interest rates, stock prices and foreign exchange in our financial position that makes it difficult for us to raise necessary rates. Our definition includes the risk of losses incurred when it funds or that forces us to raise funds at significantly higher interest becomes impossible to execute transactions in the market because rates than usual. MHFG manages market and liquidity risk for the of market confusion or losses arising from transactions at prices that group as a whole. are significantly less favorable than usual. We define liquidity risk as Market Risk Management Structure Market Risk Management of MHFG Market Risk Management at Our Core Group Companies Our Board of Directors determines basic matters pertaining to market MHBK, MHTB, MHSC and Mizuho Americas, which account for risk management policies. The Risk Management Committee of most of the group’s exposure to market risk, have formulated their MHFG broadly discusses and coordinates matters relating to basic basic policies in line with the basic policies determined by MHFG. policies in connection with market risk management, market risk Their Boards of Directors determine important matters relating to operations and market risk monitoring. The Group CRO of MHFG is market risk management while their Chief Executive Officers are responsible for matters relating to market risk management planning responsible for controlling market risk. Their respective business and operations. policy committees, including their Balance Sheet & Risk Management The Risk Management Department of MHFG is responsible Committees, are responsible for overall discussion and coordination for monitoring market risk, reports and analyses, proposals, setting of market risk management. Specifically, these committees limits and guidelines, and formulating and implementing plans relating discuss and coordinate matters relating to basic asset and liability to market risk management. The Risk Management Department management policies, risk planning and market risk management. assesses and manages the overall market risk of the group. It also The Chief Risk Officer of each subsidiary is responsible for matters receives reports from our core group companies on their market risk pertaining to planning and implementing market risk management. management that enable it to obtain a solid grasp of the risk situation, Based on a common group risk capital allocation framework, the submitting reports to the President & Group CEO on a daily basis and above-mentioned companies manage market risk by setting limits to our Board of Directors and the Executive Management Committee according to the risk capital allocated to market risk by MHFG. of MHFG on a regular basis. These companies have established specialized companywide To manage market risk, we set limits that correspond to risk market risk management departments to provide integrated capital allocations according to the risk profiles of our core group monitoring of market risk, submit reports, analyses and proposals, companies and thereby prevent market risk from exceeding our set limits and formulate and implement plans relating to market risk ability to withstand losses based on our financial strength represented management. The risk management departments of each company by capital, etc. The amount of risk capital allocated to market risk submit reports on the status of market risk management to their corresponds to VaR and additional costs that may arise in order to respective Chief Executive Officers and top management on a daily close relevant positions. For trading and banking activities, we set basis, and to their Board of Directors and Executive Management limits for VaR and for losses. For banking activities, we set position Committee on a regular basis. They also provide regular reports to limits based on interest rate sensitivity as needed. MHFG. To provide a system of mutual checks and balances in market These limits are discussed and coordinated by the Risk operations, they have established middle offices specializing in risk Management Committee, discussed further by the Executive management that are independent of their front offices, which engage Management Committee, then determined by the President & Group in market transactions, and their back offices, which are responsible CEO. Various factors are taken into account including business for book entries and settlements. When VaR is not adequate to strategies, historical limit usage ratios, risk-bearing capacity (profits, control risk, the middle offices manage risk using additional risk total capital and risk management systems), profit targets and the indices, carry out stress tests and set stop loss limits as needed. They market liquidity of the products involved. monitor their market liquidity risk for individual financial products in the market while taking turnover and other factors into consideration. 115 Mizuho Financial Group Appendix Risk Management Structure Status of MHFG’s Market Risk The following graph shows VaR figures of our trading activities Value-at Risk for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2017: We use the VaR method, supplemented with stress testing, as our principal tool to measure market risk. The VaR method measures Fiscal 2016 VaR (Trading Activities) the maximum possible loss that could be incurred due to market (VaR: JPY billions) 8 movements within a certain time period (or holding period) and degree of probability (or confidence interval). 6 Trading Activities  VaR related to our trading activities is based on the following: 4 • historical simulation method; • confidence interval: one-tailed 99.0%; 2 • holding period of one day; and • historical observation period of three years. 0 The following tables show the VaR related to our trading activities 04/01/2016 04/15/2016 04/29/2016 05/13/2016 05/27/2016 06/10/2016 06/24/2016 07/08/2016 07/22/2016 08/05/2016 08/19/2016 by risk category for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2015, 2016 and 09/02/2016 09/16/2016 09/30/2016 10/14/2016 10/28/2016 11/11/2016 11/25/2016 12/09/2016 12/23/2016 01/06/2017 01/20/2017 02/03/2017 02/17/2017 03/03/2017 2017 and as of March 31, 2015, 2016 and 2017: 03/17/2017 03/31/2017 The following table shows VaR figures of our trading activities for VaR by Risk Category (Trading Activities) the fiscal years indicated: (JPY billions) Fiscal 2014 VaR (Trading Activities) (JPY billions) Daily average Maximum Minimum At March 31 Interest rate 1.8 2.6 1.4 1.5 Fiscal 2014 Fiscal 2015 Fiscal 2016 Change Foreign exchange 3.0 5.8 1.6 5.6 As of fiscal year end 6.5 2.0 2.6 0.5 Equities 0.5 1.3 0.2 0.3 Maximum 7.1 4.5 5.8 1.3 Commodities 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Minimum 3.1 1.8 2.3 0.5 Total 4.4 7.1 3.1 6.5 Average 4.4 2.9 3.3 0.4 Fiscal 2015 Daily average Maximum Minimum At March 31 Interest rate 1.8 3.7 0.6 1.1 Foreign exchange 0.9 2.3 0.2 0.3 Equities 0.6 2.5 0.1 0.3 Commodities 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Total 2.9 4.5 1.8 2.0 Fiscal 2016 Daily average Maximum Minimum At March 31 Interest rate 2.0 3.6 1.0 1.0 Foreign exchange 0.5 1.6 0.1 0.1 Equities 0.4 3.2 0.1 0.9 Commodities 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Total 3.3 5.8 2.3 2.6 2017 Integrated Report 116 Appendix Non-Trading Activities  • The use of a 99.0% confidence level does not take account of, The VaR related to our banking activities is based on the same nor makes any statement about, any losses that might occur conditions as those of trading activities, but the holding period is one beyond this confidence level. month. • VaR does not capture all complex effects of various risk The following graph shows the VaR related to our banking factors on the value of positions and portfolios and could activities excluding our cross-shareholdings portfolio for the year underestimate potential losses. ended March 31, 2017. We also conduct interest sensitivity analyses of interest risk, our main source of market risk. The following table shows sensitivity to Fiscal 2016 VaR (Banking Activities) yen interest risk in our banking activities as of the dates indicated. Interest rate sensitivity (10 BPV) shows how much net present value VaR (VaR: JPY billions) (%) Interest rate on five-year government bonds varies when interest rates rise by 10 basis points (0.1%), and it 400 0.5 explains the impact of interest rate movements on net present value 300 0.25 when shortand long-term interest rates behave differently. 200 0.0 Interest Sensitivity by Maturity At March 31 (JPY billions) 100 -0.25 2015 2016 2017 Change 0 -0.5 04/01/2016 04/15/2016 04/29/2016 05/13/2016 05/27/2016 06/10/2016 06/24/2016 Up to one year (1) (2) (4) (1) 07/08/2016 07/22/2016 08/05/2016 08/19/2016 From one to five years (35) (21) (8) 12 09/02/2016 09/16/2016 09/30/2016 10/14/2016 10/28/2016 11/11/2016 11/25/2016 12/09/2016 12/23/2016 01/06/2017 01/20/2017 02/03/2017 02/17/2017 Over five years (14) (25) (27) (1) 03/03/2017 03/17/2017 03/31/2017 Total (51) (50) (40) 9 The following table shows the VaR figures relating to our banking activities for the fiscal years indicated: Cross-shareholding Portfolio Management Activities We take the market risk management approach with use of VaR and VaR (Banking Activities) (JPY billions) risk indices for cross-shareholdings portfolio management activities Fiscal 2014 Fiscal 2015 Fiscal 2016 Change as well as for trading activities and non-trading activities. The risk As of fiscal year end 325.6 321.5 292.7 (28.7) index for cross-shareholdings portfolio management for the fiscal Maximum 349.0 360.6 397.5 36.9 year ended March 31, 2017, consisting of the sensitivity of the crossMinimum 265.0 190.0 247.4 57.4 shareholdings portfolio to a 1% change in the equity index of TOPIX, Average 307.9 284.9 331.0 46.1 was JPY31.7 billion. Back Testing and Stress Testing Characteristics of VaR Model  In order to evaluate the effectiveness of market risk measurements VaR is a commonly used market risk management technique. calculated using the VaR method, we carry out regular back tests to However, VaR models have the following shortcomings: compare VaR with assumptive profits and losses. Assumptive profits • By its nature as a statistical approach, VaR estimates possible and losses accounts for general market risk. The following graph losses over a certain period at a particular confidence level shows daily VaR of trading activities (based on the Basel regulatory using past market movement data. Past market movement, framework) for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2017, and the however, is not necessarily a good indicator of future events, corresponding paired distribution of profits and losses. We had zero particularly potential future events that are extreme in nature. case where losses exceeded VaR during the period. In addition, we • VaR may underestimate the probability of extreme market conduct evaluations of the assumptions related to the VaR models. movements. 117 Mizuho Financial Group Appendix Risk Management Structure Based on the number of times losses exceeded VaR through back Fiscal 2016 Stress Testing testing and the results of the evaluation of the model assumptions, At March 31, 2017 (JPY billions) we will make adjustments to the models as appropriate. We changed our VaR models from the variance co-variance model to the Historical Assumed maximum loss result calculated by stress testing 25.2 Simulation method, which has been used since the beginning of the (holding period: one month) fiscal year ended March 31, 2017. Changes to fundamental portions of the VaR models are subject to the approval of our Group CRO. Outlier Criteria As part of the capital adequacy requirements under Basel Regulatory Fiscal 2016 Back Testing Framework, the losses arising from a banking book in hypothetical Assumptive profit or loss (JPY billions) interest rate shock scenarios under certain stress conditions are 6 calculated and compared with broadly-defined capital. If the interest 4 rate risk of the banking book leads to an economic value decline of more than 20% of broadly-defined capital, we will be deemed an 2 “outlier” and may be required to reduce the banking book risk or 0 adopt other responses. We measure losses arising from our banking book each month as a part of our stress tests. (2) The table below shows the results of calculations of losses in the banking book in cases where interest rate fluctuations occur under (4) stress conditions. The results of calculations of losses in the banking (6) book show that they are 3.5% of broadly-defined capital. Because 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 VaR (JPY billions) the amount of risk on the banking book is therefore well under the Note: We conduct our back testing and assess the number of cases where losses exceed VaR based on a 250 business day year. The expected average number of instances 20% threshold and within controllable limits, we do not fall under the where one-day trading losses exceeded VaR at the 99% confidence level is 2.5. “outlier” category. Because the VaR method is based on statistical assumptions, Fiscal 2016 Results of Calculations under the Outlier Framework we conduct stress testing to simulate the levels of losses that could (JPY billions) be incurred in cases where the market moves suddenly to levels Loss Amount Broadly-defined that exceed these assumptions. The stress testing methods we of loss capital ratio to capital use include the calculation of losses on the basis of the largest At March 31, 2015 529.2 9,508.4 5.5% fluctuations occurring over a period of more than five years and the At March 31, 2016 516.6 9,638.6 5.3% calculation of losses based on market fluctuations occurring during At March 31, 2017 361.2 10,050.9 3.5% historical market events. The following table shows the assumed Effect of yen interest rate 60.4 maximum loss results of stress testing in trading activities using the Effect of dollar interest rate 245.1 methods described above: Effect of euro interest rate 17.3 Notes: 1. In the above results of calculations of losses, a part of demand deposits without fixed intervals for amending applicable interest rates is deemed core deposits and is treated accordingly in the calculation. 2. For the interest rate shock scenario used in connection with the above figures, we generate annual rate fluctuation data for five years derived from daily raw historical interest rate data of the past six years and then apply the actual fluctuation data, which show a rise in interest rates, at a 99.0% confidence level to the shock scenario. 2017 Integrated Report 118 Appendix Market Risk Equivalent The following table shows total market risk equivalent as of the In order to calculate the amount of capital necessary to meet dates indicated calculated using the standardized measurement the capital requirements relating to market risk (the “market risk method and internal models: equivalent”), we apply internal models to calculate general market risk (risks related to factors that apply generally to the market, Fiscal 2016 Market Risk Equivalent At March 31 (JPY billions) e.g., interest rates, foreign exchange rates) and the standardized 2016 2017 Change measurement method to calculate specific risks (risks other than general market risk, e.g., credit quality and market liquidity of an Calculated using standardized 70.6 103.6 32.9 measurement method individual security or instrument). In addition, our internal models are Calculated using internal 65.0 78.9 13.9 applied to trading transactions with market liquidity based on the models relevant holding period. Total market risk equivalent 135.6 182.6 46.9 Under the internal models, the market risk equivalent is Note: VaR and stressed VaR used to calculate market risk equivalent is expressed as the sum of: based on the following: The higher of (i) VaR on the calculation date and (ii) the average VaR of VaR for the preceding 60 business days (including the calculation • historical simulation method; • confidence interval: one-tailed 99.0%; date) multiplied by a multiplication factor ranging from 3.00 to 4.00 • holding period of 10 days; and that is determined based on the number of times VaR is exceeded • historical observation period of three years. upon back testing; and The higher of (i) stressed VaR on the Stressed VaR • historical simulation method; calculation date and (ii) the average of stressed VaR for the preceding • confidence interval: one-tailed 99.0%; 60 business days (including the calculation date) multiplied by the • holding period of 10 days; and • historical observation period of one year. same multiplication factor as used in the bullet point above. Liquidity Risk Management Structure Liquidity Risk Management of MHFG To manage liquidity risk, we use indices pertaining to cash flow, Our Board of Directors determines basic matters pertaining to liquidity such as limits on funds raised in the market that are set based on risk management policies. The Risk Management Committee of a number of time horizons. Limits on liquidity risk set for Japanese MHFG broadly discusses and coordinates matters relating to basic yen and foreign currencies taking into account characteristics policies in connection with liquidity risk management, operations, and strategies of each core group companies, are discussed and monitoring and proposes responses to emergencies such as sudden coordinated by the Risk Management Committee, discussed further market changes. The Group CRO of MHFG is responsible for matters by the Executive Management Committee and determined by the relating to liquidity risk management planning and operations. The President & Group CEO. In addition, our core group companies Risk Management Department of MHFG is responsible for monitoring set limits on liquidity risk for several currencies. Moreover, they are liquidity risk, reports and analyses, proposals, and formulating and working on measures to reduce their liquidity risk such as enhancing implementing plans relating to liquidity risk management. management related to local currencies. In addition, the Group CFO of MHFG is additionally responsible We have established a group-wide framework of liquidity risk for matters relating to planning and running cash flow management stage such as “Normal,” “Anxious” and “Crisis,” which reflects funding operations, and the Financial Planning Department is responsible conditions. In addition, we set Early Warning Indicators (“EWIs”) and for monitoring and adjusting the cash flow management situation monitor on a daily basis to manage liquidity conditions. As EWIs, we and for planning and implementing cash flow management to select stock prices, credit ratings, amount of liquidity reserve assets maintain appropriate funding liquidity. Reports on the liquidity risk such as Japanese government bonds, our funding situations and so management are submitted to the Risk Management Committee, the on. Balance Sheet Management Committee, the Executive Management We have established a liquidity contingency funding plan for Committee and the President & Group CEO on a regular basis. emergency situations which are deemed to fall into the “Anxious” or 119 Mizuho Financial Group Appendix Risk Management Structure “Crisis.” In emergency situations, we will consider measures such as sudden market changes. The Chief Risk Officer is responsible as a reduction in the amount of investments made, an expansion of for matters relating to liquidity risk management planning and funding from financial markets and deposits, the sale of investment operations and the senior executives of the ALM and trading units are securities and borrowings from the central bank. responsible for matters pertaining to planning and conducting cash In order to evaluate the sufficiency of liquidity reserve assets and flow management. the effectiveness of liquidity contingency funding plan, we conduct The methodologies used for ensuring precise control of liquidity stress testing under market-wide, idiosyncratic and combined risk include the formulation of management indices pertaining to cash scenario. Furthermore, we utilize stress testing for evaluating the flow, such as limits on funds raised in the market that are set based appropriateness of our annual funding plan. on a number of time horizons. As with MHFG, the previously mentioned companies have established liquidity risk stage, such as Liquidity Risk Management at Our Core Group Companies “Normal,” “Anxious” and “Crisis,” which reflects funding conditions MHBK, MHTB, MHSC and Mizuho Americas have formulated their and have established liquidity contingency funding plan for emergency basic policies in line with the basic policies determined by MHFG. situations which are deemed to fall into the “Anxious” or “Crisis” Their Boards of Directors determine important matters relating to categories. liquidity risk management while their Chief Executive Officers are Each subsidiary has adopted stringent controls that call for responsible for controlling liquidity risk. Their respective business the submission of reports on liquidity risk management and cash policy committees, including their Balance Sheet & Risk Management flow management to their respective business policy committees, Committees, are responsible for overall discussion and coordination including their Balance Sheet & Risk Management Committees, the of liquidity risk management. Specifically, these committees Executive Management Committee and the Chief Executive Officer of discuss and coordinate matters relating to risk planning, cash flow each subsidiary. management planning and propose responses to emergencies such Operational Risk Management Basic Approach We define operational risk as the risk of loss that we may incur reputational risk. We have determined risk management policies for resulting from inadequate or failed internal processes, people and each kind of risk. MHBK, MHTB, MHSC, TCSB, Mizuho Americas, systems or from external events. We recognize that operational etc., respectively manage operational risk in an appropriate manner risk includes information technology risk, operations risk, legal risk, pursuant to risk management policies determined by MHFG. human resources risk, tangible asset risk, regulatory change risk and Operational Risk Management Structure MHFG, MHBK, MHTB, MHSC, TCSB, etc., share common rules for Glossary data gathering, and we measure operational risk on a regular basis, Control Self-Assessments taking into account possible future loss events and the changes in the An autonomous method of risk management in which risk inherent in business environment and internal management. operations is identified and, after evaluating and monitoring risks that We have established and are strengthening management remain despite implementing risk control, the necessary measures are methods and systems to appropriately identify, assess, measure, implemented to reduce risk. monitor and control the operational risks which arise from the growing sophistication and diversification of financial operations and developments relating to information technology by utilizing control self-assessments and improving measurement methods. 2017 Integrated Report 120 Appendix Definition of Risks and Risk Management Methods As shown in the below table, we have defined each component of operational risk and we apply appropriate risk management methods in accordance with the scale and nature of each risk. Definition Principal Risk Management Methods • Identify and evaluate the risk by setting specific standards that need to be complied with and implementing measures Information technology risk (“IT risk”) shall refer to the risk that tailored based on evaluation results to reduce the risk. problems (e.g. malfunctions, disruptions, etc.) with the • Ensure ongoing project management in systems development computer systems or improper use of the computers in these Information and quality control. systems, which cause disruptions of the services provided to technology risk • Strengthen security to prevent information leaks. customers, or have significant impact on settlement systems, • Strengthen capabilities for rapidly and effectively dealing with etc., will result in losses for customers, and the incurrence of cyberattacks. losses (tangible or intangible) by our group companies. • Improve effectiveness of emergency responses by improving backup systems and holding drills. • Establish clearly defined procedures for handling operations. • Periodically check the status of operational processes. Risk that customers may suffer service disruptions, as well as • Conduct training and development programs by headquarters. the risk that customers or the group may incur losses Operations risk • Introduce information technology, office automation and because senior executives or employees fail to fulfill their centralization for operations. tasks properly, cause accidents or otherwise act improperly. • Improve the effectiveness of emergency responses by holding drills. • Review and confirm legal issues, including the legality of Risk that the group may incur losses due to violation of laws material decisions, agreements and external documents, etc. Legal risk and regulations, breach of contract, entering into improper • Collect and distribute legal information and conduct internal contracts or other legal factors. training programs. • Analyze and manage issues related to lawsuits. Risk that the group may incur losses due to drain or loss of • Conduct employee satisfaction surveys. personnel, deterioration of morale, inadequate development • Understand the status of working hours. Human of human resources, inappropriate working schedule, • Understand the status of vacation days taken by personnel. resources risk inappropriate working and safety environment, inequality or • Understand the status of voluntary resignations. inequity in human resource management or discriminatory • Understand the status of the stress check system. conduct. • Manage the planning and implementation of construction Risk that the group may incur losses from damage to tangible projects related to the repair and replacement of facilities. Tangible asset assets or a decline in the quality of working environment as a • Identify and evaluate the status of damage to tangible assets risk result of disasters, criminal actions or defects in asset caused by natural disasters, etc., and respond appropriately maintenance. to such damage. • Understand important changes in regulations or systems that have significant influence on our business operations or Risk that the group may incur losses due to changes in financial condition in a timely and accurate manner. Regulatory various regulations or systems, such as those related to law, • Analyze degree of influence of regulatory changes and change risk taxation and accounting. establish countermeasures. • Continuously monitor our regulatory change risk management mentioned above. • Establish framework to identify and manage, on an integrated Risk that the group may incur losses due to damage to our basis, information that may have a serious impact on credibility or the value of the “Mizuho” brand when market group management and respond to such risk in a manner Reputational participants or others learn about, or the media reports on, appropriate to its scale and nature. risk various adverse events, including actual materialization of • Swiftly identify rumors and devise appropriate responses risks or false rumors. depending on the urgency and possible impact of the situation to minimize possible losses. We also recognize and manage Information Security Risk and Compliance Risk, which constitute a combination of more than one of the above components of operational risk, as operational risk. 121 Mizuho Financial Group Appendix Risk Management Structure Measurement of Operational Risk Equivalent Implementation of the AMA data, based on our actual experience as operational loss events We have adopted the AMA from September 30, 2009, for the and scenario data. Scenario data, expressed as numerical values of calculation of operational risk equivalent in association with capital occurrence frequency and loss severity, reflects external loss data adequacy ratios based on Basel II. However, we use the Basic and BEICFs, in order to estimate unexperienced potential future loss Indicator Approach (BIA) for entities that are deemed to be less events (of low frequency and high severity). important in the measurement of operational risk equivalent and for Frequency Distribution and Severity Distribution are estimated entities that are preparing to implement the AMA. The measurement employing the above mentioned internal loss data and scenario data, results under the AMA are used not only as the operational risk and Monte-Carlo simulations are then applied to these distributions equivalent in the calculation of capital adequacy ratios but also to measure operational risk. The detailed steps of creation of scenario as Operational VaR for internal risk management purposes for data are explained later in Scenario Analysis. implementing action plans to reduce operational risk, etc. Estimation of Frequency Distribution and Loss Severity Distribution  Outline of the AMA Frequency Distribution is estimated by applying information on Outline of Measurement System  occurrence frequency of both internal loss data and scenario data to We have established the model by taking account of four elements: Poisson Distribution. Loss Severity Distribution is generated as the internal loss data; external loss data; scenario analysis and business result of combining, through a statistical approach (Extreme Value environment; and internal control factors (BEICFs). We calculate the Theory), of the actual distribution for the low severity distribution operational risk equivalent amount by estimating the maximum loss portion created by internal loss data and another loss distribution th using a 99.9 percentile one-tailed confidence interval and a one-year (Log-normal Distribution or Generalized Pareto Distribution) for the holding period etc., employing both internal loss data (i.e., actually high severity distribution portion created by scenario data. experienced operational loss events) and scenario data to reflect unexperienced potential future loss events in the measurement. Operational Risk of Large-scale Natural Disasters  In the measurement of operational risk equivalent as of March Monte-Carlo simulation is applied to the datasets expressed as a 31, 2017, we did not exclude expected losses and also did not combination of the probability of occurrence of largescale natural recognize the risk mitigating impact of insurance. In addition, we did disasters and the probable loss amount in case of such occurrence, not take into account the events related to credit risk in measuring as opposed to estimating Frequency Distribution and Loss Severity operational risk equivalent. Distribution. Outline of Measurement Model  Operational Risk of Litigation  Operational risk equivalent is calculated as a simple sum of those Each litigation is converted into data according to the profile of the related to the seven loss event types defined by Basel II, large-scale individual litigation to which Monte-Carlo simulation is applied, as natural disasters and litigation. In the measurement of operational risk opposed to estimating Frequency Distribution and Loss Severity equivalent as of March 31, 2017, we did not reflect the correlation Distribution. In the measurement process, we assume that final effects among operational risk related to each of the seven loss event decisions will be made on all litigation within one year. types. Verification  Operational Risk by the Loss Event Type  We confirm the appropriateness of the measurement model by Loss Distribution (Compound Poisson Distribution) Approach (LDA) verifying it, in principle, semi-annually. is adopted for the calculation of operational risk. LDA is based on the assumption that Poisson Distribution applies to the occurrence Scenario Analysis frequency of operational risk events, and loss severity is expressed Outline of Scenario Analysis  through a separate distribution. Operational risk is calculated for In the process of scenario analysis, scenario data is created as each of the seven loss event types employing both internal loss numerical values of occurrence frequency and loss severity reflecting 2017 Integrated Report 122 Appendix Outline of Measurement Model Internal loss data External loss data Business environment and Litigation data internal control factors Scenario analysis Risk amount for litigation risk Large-scale natural Risk amount for large-scale Scenario data disaster scenario data natural disasters Risk amount for internal fraud Risk amount for external fraud Distribution of Distribution of Unified Loss distribution Risk amount for employment internal loss scenario data distribution practices and workplace safety Monte-Carlo simulation Risk amount for customers, Frequency Frequency Frequency products and business practices distribution distribution distribution Risk amount for damage to information information information physical assets Risk amount Risk amount for business Loss severity Loss severity Loss severity disruption and system failure distribution distribution distribution Calculate risk amount information information information by seven loss event Risk amount for execution, types defined by BIS delivery and process management Operational VaR (Total operational risk amount) external loss data and BEICFs, in order to estimate unexperienced At MHFG, loss event types to which Approach A is applied potential future operational risk events (of low frequency and high account for a considerable amount of operational risk. The detailed severity). process of Approach A is explained below as a typical example of As for external loss data, we refer to data publicly reported by scenario analysis. domestic and overseas media, and such data are reflected in the estimation of occurrence frequency and loss severity distribution in Setting Units for Scenario Analysis  the process of scenario analysis. In addition, BEICFs are utilized as In order to ensure completeness and sufficiency, we set units that are indices to adjust occurrence frequency and loss severity distribution commonly applied across group entities that adopt AMA (hereinafter, in the process of scenario analysis. the “Group Entities”) by referencing and categorizing risk scenarios We categorize scenario analysis into four approaches in recognized through control self-assessment, internal loss data of the accordance with the characteristics of each loss event type and risk Group Entities and external loss data, etc. Then each of the Group management structures. Entities selects the unit on which scenario analysis is conducted from the units established on a group-wide basis in accordance with its business activities and operational risk profile. Approach Loss event type(s) to be applied Internal fraud/External fraud/Customers, products A & business practices/Execution, delivery & process Estimation of Occurrence Frequency  management Basic occurrence frequency (once a year) is calculated for each B Employment practices and workplace safety scenario analysis unit. If a certain scenario analysis unit has relevant C Damage to physical assets internal loss data of a pre-determined threshold amount or above, its D Business disruption and system failure basic occurrence frequency is calculated based on such data, and if not, the basic occurrence frequency (the occurrence frequency per year of losses at or above a pre-determined threshold) is calculated 123 Mizuho Financial Group Appendix Risk Management Structure with reference to the situation of occurrence of internal loss data of Creation of Scenario Data  less than the threshold amount and/or external loss data. The basic For each scenario analysis unit, scenario data is generated as series occurrence frequency is then adjusted within a pre-determined range of combinations of occurrence frequency per year at each severity for the purpose of reflecting the most recent BEICFs to determine the range, based on the final occurrence frequency and the final loss final occurrence frequency. severity distribution. Estimation of Loss Severity Distribution  Example of Scenario Data In order to estimate loss severity distribution, we use a pre-determined series of severity ranges. Basic loss severity distribution is calculated Final loss severity distribution for each scenario analysis unit as an occurrence ratio (in percentile Severity range (JPY billions) Total figures) of loss at each severity range when losses at or above a pre0.1 0.5 1 5 10 determined threshold occurred, with reference to transaction amount Occurrence ratio (%) 40 30 15 10 5 100 data, external loss data, etc. Then the basic severity distribution is Occurrence frequency (times) 0.4 0.3 0.15 0.1 0.05 1 adjusted, if necessary, from the viewpoint of statistical data processing Final occurrence frequency to determine the final loss severity distribution. (As of July 1, 2017) 2017 Integrated Report 124 Appendix Business Continuity Management In light of its social responsibility to play an important role in the analyzing information, formulating countermeasures, etc. In addition, social infrastructure as a financial institution, Mizuho places priority they will carry out activities such as collecting and analyzing signs on securing an adequate level of continuity of financial settlement and indicators of the crisis, and reporting to the management without functions and the swift and efficient recovery of the business in the delay. event of an emergency. This is a basic policy of the group. We have also established a Business Continuity Management The group recognizes the risks of the occurrence of an Committee as one of the Business Policy Committees for unified emergency situation in advance. In order to swiftly take measures improvement of business continuity management practices in to mitigate the risks in the event of an emergency, we develop the group. The committee makes preparations for minimizing the appropriate and effective countermeasures and a framework for impact of an emergency, and for the swift and efficient recovery of business continuity management, ensures readiness for emergencies, the business, by assessing the assumed impact of an emergency and strives to disseminate these within the organization in times of beforehand and formulating necessary countermeasures. normalcy. Particular focus is placed on strengthening our response for Specifically, we established Crisis Management Offices in MHFG, natural disasters, covering not only earthquakes and tsunamis but MHBK, MHTB, and MHSC that are responsible for responses in also volcanic eruptions, large-scale wind or water damage, and the event of emergency and business continuity management. The facilitating initial response for terrorism and riots. The committee also offices will function as a controller in the event of an emergency that focuses on responses to cyberattacks that have been occurring with may materially impact business management, by collecting and increasing frequency throughout society. 125 Mizuho Financial Group Senior Executives Mizuho Financial Group Executive Officers as Defined in Nobumitsu Watanabe Members of the Board of Directors Our Internal Regulations and Managing Executive Officer Deputy Head of Global Corporate Company / Deputy Head of Specialist Officers Executive Officers as Defined in Global Markets Company / Deputy Head of Global Products Unit the Companies Act Satoshi Miyazaki Yoshihito Bando Deputy President & Executive Officer Managing Executive Officer Yasuhiro Sato In charge of Western Japan (Kinki, Chugoku, and Shikoku Deputy Head of Asset Management Company Member of the Board of Directors regions) Masashi Hara President & CEO Hiroshi Suehiro Managing Executive Officer (Representative Executive Officer) Deputy President & Executive Officer Deputy Head of Global Products Unit Group CEO Head of the Americas Isao Nakamura Takanori Nishiyama Yasuo Agemura Managing Executive Officer Member of the Board of Directors Senior Managing Executive Officer Deputy Head of Corporate & Institutional Company / Managing Executive Officer In charge of Specific Business of Global Markets Company Deputy Chief Digital Innovation Officer Head of Compliance Group (Group CCO) Takeshi Watanabe Toshio Sobue Koichi Iida Senior Managing Executive Officer Managing Executive Officer Member of the Board of Directors In charge of Specific Duties Deputy Head of Risk Management Group / Deputy Head Managing Executive Officer of Compliance Group Head of Strategic Planning Group (Group CSO) Tetsuhiko Saito Senior Managing Executive Officer Keisuke Saito Makoto Umemiya In charge of Specific Business of Retail & Business Banking Company Managing Executive Officer Member of the Board of Directors Deputy Head of Global Products Unit Managing Executive Officer Daisuke Yamada Head of Financial Control & Accounting Group (Group CFO) Managing Executive Officer Hiroaki Ehara Chief Digital Innovation Officer Managing Executive Officer Yasuyuki Shibata Deputy Head of Human Resources Group / Deputy Head Member of the Board of Directors Haruki Nakamura of Internal Audit Group Managing Executive Officer Managing Executive Officer Joint Head of IT & Systems Group Toshiro Egawa Head of Risk Management Group (Group CRO) Managing Executive Officer Ryusuke Aya Amane Oshima Deputy Head of Retail & Business Banking Company Member of the Board of Directors Managing Executive Officer Deputy Head of Global Markets Company Naoyuki Machinaga Nobukatsu Funaki Managing Executive Officer Member of the Board of Directors Koji Arita Deputy Head of Research & Consulting Unit Managing Executive Officer Tetsuo Seki Joint Head of Operations Group Hiroto Koda Member of the Board of Directors (Outside Director) Managing Executive Officer Akira Nakamura Deputy Head of Human Resources Group Takashi Kawamura Managing Executive Officer Member of the Board of Directors (Outside Director) In charge of Specific Business of Corporate & Institutional Company Naofumi Fuke Managing Executive Officer Tatsuo Kainaka Teiji Teramoto Deputy Head of Retail & Business Banking Company Member of the Board of Directors (Outside Director) Managing Executive Officer In charge of Specific Business of Global Corporate Company Toshio Hirota Hirotake Abe Managing Executive Officer Member of the Board of Directors (Outside Director) Shingo Asano Deputy Head of Corporate & Institutional Company Hiroko Ota Managing Executive Officer In charge of Specific Business of Retail & Business Banking Company Tatsuya Yamada Member of the Board of Directors (Outside Director) Managing Executive Officer Izumi Kobayashi Seiji Imai Deputy Head of IT & Systems Group / Deputy Head of Managing Executive Officer Operations Group Member of the Board of Directors (Outside Director) Head of Asia & Oceania excl. East Asia Kenji Tsujitsugu Toshitsugu Okabe Managing Executive Officer Deputy President & Executive Officer Takahiko Yasuhara Managing Executive Officer Deputy Head of Corporate & Institutional Company (Representative Executive Officer) Head of Retail & Business Banking Company Head of East Asia Masaya Oishi Motonori Wakabayashi Managing Executive Officer Daisaku Abe Deputy Head of Asset Management Company Managing Executive Officer Deputy President & Executive Officer Deputy Head of Research & Consulting Unit Taiji Kumagai Head of IT & Systems Group (Group CIO) / Head of Operations Group (Group COO) Koji Yonei Managing Executive Officer Managing Executive Officer Deputy Head of Compliance Group Kosuke Nakamura Joint Head of IT & Systems Group / General Manager of IT Deputy President & Executive Officer & Systems Planning Department Atsushi Takahashi Head of Corporate & Institutional Company Managing Executive Officer Masatoshi Yoshihara Deputy Head of Global Corporate Company / Deputy Akira Sugano Managing Executive Officer Head of Global Products Unit / Deputy Head of Strategic Deputy President & Executive Officer Deputy Head of Global Markets Company Planning Group / Deputy Head of Financial Control & Head of Global Corporate Company Accounting Group / Deputy Chief Digital Innovation Officer Hisaaki Hirama Junichi Kato Managing Executive Officer Kenji Fujii Senior Managing Executive Officer Deputy Head of Internal Audit Group Managing Executive Officer Head of Global Markets Company Deputy Head of Research & Consulting Unit / Deputy Head Naoto Takahashi of Risk Management Group Katsunobu Motohashi Managing Executive Officer Senior Managing Executive Officer Joint Head of Strategic Planning Group / General Manager Hideyuki Kawashima Head of Asset Management Company of Next–Generation IT Systems Coordination Project Team Managing Executive Officer Deputy Head of Internal Audit Group Keiichiro Ogushi Hiroshi Itabashi Senior Managing Executive Officer Managing Executive Officer Yuzo Kanamori Head of Research & Consulting Unit In charge of Specific Business of Retail & Business Banking Company Managing Executive Officer Deputy Head of Global Corporate Company / Deputy Tsutomu Nomura Hiroshi Nagamine Head of Global Products Unit Managing Executive Officer Managing Executive Officer Head of Internal Audit Group (Group CA) Head of Europe, Middle East and Africa Asashi Katou Executive Officer Shuji Kojima Kazuhisa Sawa General Manager of IT & Systems Promotion Department Managing Executive Officer Managing Executive Officer Head of Human Resources Group (Group CHRO) Deputy Head of Strategic Planning Group / Deputy Head Eishi Shimizu of Financial Control & Accounting Group / Deputy Head of Executive Officer Shinji Taniguchi IT & Systems Group / Deputy Head of Operations Group General Manager of Channel Strategy Department Managing Executive Officer Head of Global Products Unit 2017 Integrated Report 126 Masahiko Abe Yuta Chiba Mizuho Securities Executive Officer Member of the Board of Directors (Audit & Supervisory General Manager of Corporate & Institutional Coordination Department Committee Member) Members of the Board of Directors Hisashi Kikuchi Ryusuke Aya Member of the Board of Directors (Audit & Supervisory Yasuhiko Imaizumi Executive Officer Chairman General Manager of Corporate Secretariat Committee Member) Isao Imai Tatsufumi Sakai* Riki Shibata President & CEO (Representative Director) Executive Officer Member of the Board of Directors (Outside Director) (Audit & Supervisory Committee Member) General Manager of Global Markets Coordination Department Hiroto Koda* Yukio Machida Deputy President (Representative Director) Bo Kusanagi Member of the Board of Directors (Outside Director) Head of Human Resources Group / In charge of Executive Executive Officer (Audit & Supervisory Committee Member) Secretariat / In charge of Markets Strategic Intelligence General Manager of Asset Management Coordination Department Dept. / Attached to Strategic Planning Group Toshio Kinoshita Akihito Mochizuki Member of the Board of Directors (Outside Director) Yasuo Agemura* Executive Officer (Audit & Supervisory Committee Member) Deputy President General Manager of Planning Administration Department Head of Global Markets / Head of Global Markets Division Seiji Koga Hiroyuki Iijima Member of the Board of Directors (Outside Director) Naofumi Fuke* Executive Officer (Audit & Supervisory Committee Member) Senior Executive Managing Director General Manager of Retail & Business Banking Head of Retail & Business Banking Division Coordination Department Executive Officers Toshio Hirota* Masaomi Takada (Head of Each Region Overseas) Senior Executive Managing Director Executive Officer Head of Global Investment Banking Division General Manager of Executive Secretariat Hiroshi Suehiro Deputy President & Executive Officer Masaya Oishi* Shinya Uda Head of the Americas Executive Managing Director Executive Officer In charge of JA Sales Dept. of Global Markets Division / In General Manager of Global Talent Planning and Management Department Takahiko Yasuhara charge of Retail & Business Banking Division Managing Executive Officer Daisuke Horiuchi Head of East Asia Taiji Kumagai* Executive Officer Executive Managing Director General Manager of Branch Banking Department Seiji Imai Head of Global Compliance / Head of Compliance Group Managing Executive Officer Takuya Ito Head of Asia & Oceania excl. East Asia Atsushi Takahashi* Executive Officer Executive Managing Director General Manager of Global Corporate Coordination Department Hiroshi Nagamine Head of Global Finance / Head of Strategic Planning Managing Executive Officer Group / Head of Financial Control & Accounting Group / In Masahiko Kato Head of Europe, Middle East and Africa charge of Investment Dept. Specialist Officer General Manager for IT & Systems Group Kenji Fujii* Mizuho Trust & Banking Executive Managing Director Yasumasa Mukai Specialist Officer Members of the Board of Directors Head of Global Risk Management / Head of Research & Consulting Unit /Head of Risk Management Group / In General Manager for IT & Systems Group charge of Due Diligence Dept. Takeo Nakano Mizuho Bank Chairman Hideyuki Kawashima* Tetsuo Iimori* Executive Managing Director Members of the Board of Directors President & CEO (Representative Director) SC Group Chief Audit Executive / Head of Internal Audit Group Nobuhide Hayashi Kazuhisa Sawa* Yasuhiro Sato Chairman Deputy President (Representative Director) Member of the Board of Directors Head of Strategic Planning, Financial Control & Accounting Koji Fujiwara* Group / Head of IT & Systems Group / Head of Operations Hidetaka Kawakita President & CEO (Representative Director) Group / In charge of Executive Secretariat Member of the Board of Directors (Outside Director) Satoshi Miyazaki* Toshio Sobue* Yasushi Higo Deputy President (Representative Director) Executive Managing Director Member of the Board of Directors (Audit & Supervisory In charge of Western Japan (Kinki, Chugoku, and Shikoku Head of Risk Management Group / Head of Compliance Committee Member) regions) Group / Head of Credit Group Takehiko Iida Kiyoshi Miyake* Hiroaki Ehara* Member of the Board of Directors (Audit & Supervisory Deputy President (Representative Director) Executive Managing Director Committee Member) Head of Business Promotion Head of Human Resources Group / Head of Internal Audit Group Hideo Etani Shusaku Tsuhara* Yasuhiro Sato Member of the Board of Directors (Outside Director) (Audit & Supervisory Committee Member) Deputy President (Representative Director) Member of the Board of Directors Head of Business Promotion Yuji Yoshimasu Masaru Ono Member of the Board of Directors (Outside Director) Takanori Nishiyama* Member of the Board of Directors (Outside Director) (Audit & Supervisory Committee Member) Executive Managing Director Head of Compliance Group Eiji Ogawa Masaru Ono Member of the Board of Directors (Outside Director) Member of the Board of Directors (Outside Director) Koichi Iida* (Audit & Supervisory Committee Member) Executive Managing Director Masato Monguchi Member of the Board of Directors (Audit & Supervisory Head of Strategic Planning Group Committee Member) Notes: Makoto Umemiya* Hiroyuki Hatano 1. *indicates directors concurrently serving as executive Executive Managing Director Member of the Board of Directors (Audit & Supervisory Head of Financial Control & Accounting Group officers. Committee Member) 2. Executive officers, excluding the directors Yasuyuki Shibata* Masayuki Satake concurrently serving as executive officers and Executive Managing Director Member of the Board of Directors (Outside Director) executive officers responsible for global regional Head of Risk Management Group (Audit & Supervisory Committee Member) operations of Mizuho Bank, have not been listed. Yasuhiro Sato Kiyotaka Fuke 3. Executive officers, excluding the directors Member of the Board of Directors Member of the Board of Directors (Outside Director) concurrently serving as executive officers of Mizuho (Audit & Supervisory Committee Member) Trust & Banking and Mizuho Securities, have not Masayuki Yonetani Member of the Board of Directors (Audit & Supervisory Ryuta Nakajima been listed. Committee Member) Member of the Board of Directors (Outside Director) (Audit & Supervisory Committee Member) (As of June 23, 2017) 127 Mizuho Financial Group Location of Offices outside Japan (As of June 30, 2017) Network of Mizuho Bank Mizuho Bank (China), Ltd. Mizuho Capital Markets (HK) Limited Suzhou Branch 16th Floor, Two Pacific Place, 88 Queensway, Hong Kong, S.A.R., The People’s Republic of China Asia and Oceania 17th Floor, Genway Building, 188 Wangdun Road, Suzhou Industrial Park, Suzhou, Jiangsu Province 215123, TEL 852-2537-3815 (Country/Region) The People’s Republic of China TEL 86-512-6733-6888 India Australia Mizuho Bank (China), Ltd. Bangalore-Devanahalli Branch Sydney Branch #462/440/339, 2nd Floor, Near Jain Temple, N.H.7/4-207, Level 33, 60 Margaret Street, Sydney, N.S.W. 2000, Australia Tianjin Branch B.B. Road, Vijayapura Cross, Devanahalli Town, TEL 61-2-8273-3888 5th Floor, E2 ABC, East Wing Binhai Finance Zone, Bangalore Rural District 562 110, Karnataka, India No. 20 Xinchengdong Road, TEDA, Tianjin 300457, TEL 91-80-4968-2000 Mizuho Australia Ltd. The People’s Republic of China Level 33, 60 Margaret Street, Sydney, N.S.W. 2000, Australia TEL 86-22-6622-5588 TEL 61-2-8273-3888 Chennai Branch Unit No. 11B, 11th Floor, Prestige Palladium Bayan, Mizuho Bank (China), Ltd. Nos. 129 to 140, Greams Road, Chennai – 600 006, Cambodia Wuhan Branch Tamil Nadu, India 5th Floor, Tower A, New World Center Tower, Phnom Penh Branch TEL 91-44-4928-6600 634 Jiefang Avenue, Hankou, Wuhan, 13A Floor, Phnom Penh Tower, #445, Monivong Blvd (St. 93/232) Sangkat Boeung Pralit, Hubei Province 430032, Mumbai Branch The People’s Republic of China Level 17 TOWER–A Peninsula Business Park, Khan 7 Makara, Phnom Penh, Cambodia TEL 86-27-8342-5000 TEL 855-23-964-490 Senapati Bapat Marg, Lower Parel, Mumbai 400013, India TEL 91-22-4911-2000 Mizuho Bank (China), Ltd. China Wuxi Branch New Delhi Branch Mizuho Bank (China), Ltd. 8th Floor, Wuxi SI Park B, No. 16 Changjiang Road, 1st Floor, DLF Capitol Point, Baba Kharag Singh Marg, 23rd Floor, Shanghai World Financial Center, WND, Wuxi, Jiangsu Province 214028, Connaught Place, New Delhi, 110001, India 100 Century Avenue, Pudong New Area, Shanghai The People’s Republic of China TEL 91-11-3041-0900 200120, The People’s Republic of China TEL 86-510-8522-3939 TEL 86-21-3855-8888 Ahmedabad Branch Mizuho Bank (China), Ltd. Office No. 402, 4th Floor, Commerce House–5, Mizuho Bank (China), Ltd. Changshu Sub-Branch Nr. Vodafone House, Prahladnagar Corporate Road, Shanghai Pilot Free Trade Zone Sub-Branch Room701-704, Kechuang Building, No. 333 Dongnan Road, Prahladnagar Satellite, Ahmedabad–380 051, India Room 01, 08, 09, 10, 11, 12, 7F, Shanghai International Changshu New & Hi-tech Industrial Development Zone, TEL 91-79-4014-4666 Communication and Trade Building, 55 Jilong Road, Jiangsu Province, 215500, The People’s Republic of China Shanghai 200131, The People’s Republic of China TEL 86-512-6733-6888 Indonesia TEL 86-21-3855-8888 PT. Bank Mizuho Indonesia Mizuho Bank (China), Ltd. Sinar Mas Land Plaza Menara 2, 24th Floor, Mizuho Bank (China), Ltd. Dalian Economic & Technological Jl. M. H. Thamrin No. 51, Jakarta 10350, Beijing Branch Development Area Sub-Branch Republic of Indonesia 8th Floor, West Wing, World Financial Center, 22nd Floor, International Business Building of Gugeng, TEL 62-21-392-5222 No. 1 Dong San Huan Zhong Road, Chaoyang District, No. 81 Hongmei Area, Dalian Economic & Technological Beijing 100020, The People’s Republic of China Development Area, Dalian, Liaoning Province 116600, Korea TEL 86-10-6525-1888 The People’s Republic of China TEL 86-411-8793-5670 Seoul Branch Mizuho Bank (China), Ltd. 19th Floor, Seoul Finance Center, 136, Sejong-daero, Dalian Branch Mizuho Bank (China), Ltd. Jung-gu, Seoul, Korea 23rd Floor, 24th Floor-A, Senmao Building, Kunshan Sub-Branch TEL 822-3782-8500 147 Zhongshan Road, Xigang District, Room D,E, 18th Floor, Dongan Building, Dalian, Liaoning Province 116011, No. 258 Chunxu Road, Development Zone Kunshan City, Malaysia The People’s Republic of China Kunshan, Jiangsu Province 215300, TEL 86-411-8360-2543 The People’s Republic of China Labuan Branch TEL 86-512-6733-6888 Level 9 (B) & (C), Main Office Tower, Mizuho Bank (China), Ltd. Financial Park Labuan, Jalan Merdeka, Guangzhou Branch Mizuho Bank (China), Ltd. 87000 Federal Territory of Labuan, Malaysia Tianjin Heping Sub-Branch TEL 60-87-417766 25th Floor, International Finance Place, No. 8 Huaxia Road, Zhujiang New Town, Tianhe District, Guangzhou, Room 1902, Tianjin International Building, Guangdong Province 510623, No. 75 Nanjing Road, Heping Area, Tianjin 300050, Labuan Branch, Kuala Lumpur The People’s Republic of China The People’s Republic of China Marketing Office TEL 86-20-3815-0888 TEL 86-22-6622-5588 Level 27, Menara Maxis, Kuala Lumpur City Centre, 50088 Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia Mizuho Bank (China), Ltd. Nanjing Representative Office TEL 60-3-2070-6880 Hefei Branch Room 2220, Suning Universal Hotel, 188 Guangzhou Road, Room No. 1902-1907, No. 7 Office Building Wanda Plaza, Nanjing, Jiangsu Province 210024, Mizuho Bank (Malaysia) Berhad 130 Maanshan Street, Baohe District, Hefei, The People’s Republic of China Level 27, Menara Maxis, Kuala Lumpur City Centre, Anhui Province, The People’s Republic of China TEL 86-25-8332-9379 50088 Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia TEL 86-551-6380-0690 TEL 60-3-2058-6881 Xiamen Representative Office Mizuho Bank (China), Ltd. Room 2102, The Bank Center, No. 189 Xiahe Road, Myanmar Siming District, Xiamen, Fujian Province 361003, Qingdao Branch The People’s Republic of China Yangon Branch 44th Floor, Qingdao International Finance Center, Sedona Business Suites, Level 4, TEL 86-592-239-5571 59 Hong Kong Middle Road, Shinan District, Qingdao, No. 1 Ka Ba Aye Pagoda Road, Yankin Township, Yangon, Shandong Province 266071, The People’s Republic of China Hong Kong Republic of the Union of Myanmar TEL 95-1-860-5501 TEL 86-532-8097-0001 Hong Kong Branch 17th Floor, Two Pacific Place, 88 Queensway, Hong Kong, Yangon Branch Thilawa Front Office Mizuho Bank (China), Ltd. S.A.R., The People’s Republic of China Room No. 204, Administration Building, Shenzhen Branch TEL 852-2103-3000 Corner of Thilawa Development Road and Dagon-Thilawa 30th Floor, Huanggang Business Center Tower1, Road, Thilawa SEZ, Thanlyin Township, Yangon, Jintian Road, Futian District, Shenzhen, Kowloon Sub-Branch Republic of the Union of Myanmar Guangdong Province 518046, 16th Floor, Sun Life Tower, The Gateway, TEL 95-1-230-9046 The People’s Republic of China Tsim Sha Tsui, Kowloon, TEL 86-755-8282-9000 Hong Kong, S.A.R., The People’s Republic of China Philippines TEL 852-2102-5399 Manila Branch 25th Floor, Zuellig Building, Makati Avenue corner Paseo de Roxas, Makati City 1225, Metro Manila, Philippines TEL 63-2-860-3500 India 2017 Integrated Report 128 Singapore Frankfurt Branch The Americas Singapore Branch TaunusTurm 34th Floor, Taunustor 1, 60310 Frankfurt am (Country/Region) Main, Germany 12 Marina View, #08-01 Asia Square Tower 2, TEL 49-69-29-72-95-0 Bahamas Singapore 018961, Republic of Singapore TEL 65-6805-2000 Iran Mizuho Bank (USA) Nassau Branch 308 East Bay Street, P.O. Box N-7768, Nassau, Bahamas Taiwan Tehran Representative Office 3rd Floor, No. 1, 14th Street, Khaled Eslamboli Avenue, Brazil Kaohsiung Branch Tehran 15117, Iran 12th Floor, No. 2, Chung Cheng 3rd Road, TEL 98-21-8872-6593 Banco Mizuho do Brasil S.A. Kaohsiung 800, Taiwan Avenida Engenheiro Luiz Carlos Berrini, 716-10 andar, TEL 886-7-236-8768 Italy Brooklin Novo, São Paulo, SP, CEP. 04571-000, Brazil TEL 55-11-5504-9844 Taichung Branch Milan Branch 8th Floor, No. 169, Fuhui Parkway, Taichung 407, Taiwan 6th Floor, Largo Augusto 7, 20122 Milan, Republic of Italy Canada TEL 886-4-2374-6300 TEL 39-02-778-0001 Canada Branch Taipei Branch Saudi Arabia 100 Yonge Street, Suite 1102, Toronto, Ontario, 2nd Floor, Hung Kuo Building, 167 Tun Hua North Road, Canada, M5C 2W1 Taipei 105, Taiwan Mizuho Saudi Arabia Company TEL 1-416-874-0222 TEL 886-2-2715-3911 North Lobby 1st Floor, Al Faisaliah Tower, King Fahd Road, Olaya District, Riyadh 11544, Calgary Office Thailand Kingdom of Saudi Arabia Suite 1000, 888 3rd Street, South West, Calgary, Alberta, TEL 966-11-273-4111 Canada, T2P 5C5 Bangkok Branch TEL 1-403-444-5375 98 Sathorn Square Office Tower 32nd – 35th floor, South Africa North Sathorn Road, Silom, Bangrak, Bangkok 10500, Vancouver Office Thailand Johannesburg Representative Office Suite 305, South Tower, 5811 Cooney Road, Richmond, TEL 66-2-163-2999, 2-002-0222 2nd Floor, West Tower, Maude Street, British Columbia, Canada, V6X 3M1 Nelson Mandela Square, Sandton 2196, South Africa, TEL 1-604-231-3725 Eastern Seaboard Branch P.O. Box 785553, Sandton 2146 300/7 ESIE Plaza 2, Unit No. 2-05 Moo 1, Tambol Ta Sit, TEL 27-11-881-5410 Cayman Islands Amphoe Pluak Daeng, Rayong 21140, Thailand TEL 66-3-899-7000 Spain Cayman Branch Mizuho Bank Europe N.V. P. O. Box 1353, Harbour Place, 5th Floor, Vietnam 103 South Church Street, George Town, Madrid Branch Grand Cayman KY1-1108, Cayman Islands Hanoi Branch Calle Orense 34, Planta 6, Edificio Iberia Mart II, 4th Floor, 63 LTT Building, 63 Ly Thai To Street, Hanoi, 28020 Madrid, Spain Chile Socialist Republic of Vietnam TEL 34-91-598-2905 TEL 84-4-3936-3123/3124 Santiago Representative Office The Netherlands Av. Apoquindo 3472, Piso 7, Las Condes, Santiago, Chile Ho Chi Minh City Branch TEL 56-2-3203-5773 18th Floor, Sun Wah Tower, Mizuho Bank Europe N.V 115 Nguyen Hue Boulevard, District 1, Apollolaan 171, 1077 AS Amsterdam, The Netherlands Mexico Ho Chi Minh City, Socialist Republic of Vietnam TEL 31-20-5734343 TEL 84-8-3827-8260/8292 Mexico Representative Office Turkey Paseo de la Reforma 342, Piso 10, Colonia Juarez, Europe, the Middle East and Africa Istanbul Representative Office Delegacion, Cuauhtemoc, 06600, Ciudad de Mexico, Mexico (Country/Region) TEL 52-55-5281-5037 Office 813, Tekfen Tower 8th Floor, Buyukdere Caddesi No. 209, 4. Levent 34394, Istanbul, Austria Turkey Mizuho Bank Mexico, S.A. Paseo de la Reforma 342, Piso 10, Colonia Juarez, Mizuho Bank Europe N.V. TEL 90-212-371-8474 Delegacion, Cuauhtemoc, 06600, Ciudad de Mexico, Mexico Vienna Branch TEL 52-55-5281-5037 DC Tower 26th Floor, Donau-City-Strasse 7, U.A.E. 1220 Vienna, Austria DIFC Branch-Dubai U.S.A. TEL 43-1-269-1000-00 The Gate Building, East Wing, Level 5, Dubai International Chicago Branch Financial Centre, P.O. Box No: 506607, Dubai, United Arab Bahrain Emirates 311 South Wacker Drive, Suite 2100, Chicago, IL 60606, TEL 971-4-279-4400 USA Bahrain Representative Office TEL 1-312-855-1111 Suite 201-202, Entrance 4, 2nd Floor, Manama Center, United Kingdom Manama, Bahrain Los Angeles Branch (P.O. BOX 5759, Manama, Bahrain) London Branch 350 South Grand Avenue, Suite 1500, Los Angeles, TEL 973-17-224522 Mizuho House, 30 Old Bailey, London EC4M 7AU, United CA 90071, USA Kingdom TEL 1-213-243-4500 Belgium TEL 44-20-7012-4000 Mizuho Bank Europe N.V. New York Branch Mizuho Capital Markets (UK) Limited 1251 Avenue of the Americas, New York, NY 10020, USA Brussels Branch Mizuho House, 30 Old Bailey, London EC4M 7AU, United TEL 1-212-282-3000 Avenue Louise 480, 1050 Brussels, Belgium Kingdom TEL 32-2-645-5280 TEL 44-20-3446-4500 Park Avenue Branch 320 Park Avenue, New York, NY 10022, USA France Russia TEL 1-212-282-3000 Paris Branch AO Mizuho Bank (Moscow) Atlanta Representative Office Washington Plaza 40, rue Washington, 5th floor, 20, bld.1, Ovchinnikovskaya nab., 3353 Peachtree Road NE, Atlanta Financial Center, 75408 Paris Cedex 08, France 115035 Moscow, Russian Federation Suite 500, Atlanta, GA 30326, USA TEL 33-1-5383-4100 TEL 7-495-212-0333 TEL 1-404-364-1550 Germany Houston Representative Office Duesseldorf Branch 2700 Post Oak Blvd., Suite 1270, Houston, TX 77056, USA TEL 1-713-499-4800 Benrather Strasse 18-20, 40213 Duesseldorf, F.R. Germany TEL 49-211-13020 San Francisco Representative Office 235 Pine Street, San Francisco, CA 94104, USA TEL 1-415-365-1750 129 Mizuho Financial Group Mizuho Bank (USA) Network of Mizuho Securities Mizuho Securities USA LLC 1251 Avenue of the Americas, New York, NY 10020, USA Hoboken Office TEL 1-212-282-3030 Waterfront Corporate Center, 111 River Street, Suite 1100, Beijing Representative Office Hoboken, NJ 07030, USA Mizuho Bank (USA) 8th Floor, Chang-Fu-Gong Office Building, Jia 26, TEL 1-201-626-1000 Atlanta Representative Office Jianguomenwai Street, Chaoyang District, 3353 Peachtree Road NE, Atlanta Financial Center, Beijing 100022, The People’s Republic of China Mizuho Securities USA LLC Suite 500, Atlanta, GA 30326, USA TEL 86-10-6523-4779 Houston Office (Investment Banking) TEL 1-404-364-1550 2700 Post Oak Blvd, Suite 1270, Houston, Shanghai Representative Office TX 77056, USA Mizuho Bank (USA) 17th Floor, Shanghai World Financial Center, TEL 1-713-499-4800 No. 100, Century Ave., Pudong New Area, Chicago Representative Office 311 South Wacker Drive, Suite 2100, Chicago, IL 60606, Shanghai 200120, The People’s Republic of China Mizuho Securities USA LLC TEL 86-21-6877-8000 Los Angeles Office (Investment Banking) USA TEL 1-312-855-1111 350 South Grand Avenue, Suite 1500, Los Angeles, Mizuho Investment Consulting CA 90071, USA Mizuho Bank (USA) (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. TEL 1-213-243-4500 33rd Floor, Shanghai World Financial Center, Houston Representative Office 2700 Post Oak Blvd., Suite 1270, Houston, TX 77056, USA No. 100, Century Ave., Pudong New Area, Mizuho Securities USA LLC Shanghai 200120, The People’s Republic of China New York Office (Investment Banking) TEL 1-713-499-4800 TEL 86-21-6877-5888 1251 Avenue of the Americas, 30th Floor, Mizuho Bank (USA) New York, NY 10020, USA Los Angeles Representative Office Mizuho Investment Consulting TEL 1-212-282-3000 350 South Grand Avenue, Suite 1500, Los Angeles, (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. CA 90071, USA Beijing Branch Mizuho Securities USA LLC TEL 1-213-243-4500 6010, Chang-Fu-Gong Office Building, Jia 26, San Francisco Office Jianguomenwai Street, Chaoyang District, Beijing 100022, 235 Pine Street, 19th Floor, San Francisco, CA 94104, USA Mizuho Bank (USA) The People’s Republic of China TEL 1-415-268-5500 Park Avenue Branch TEL 86-10-6526-7577 320 Park Avenue, New York, NY 10022, USA Mizuho Securities USA LLC TEL 1-212-282-3030 Mizuho Securities Asia Limited San Francisco Office (Investment Banking) 12th Floor, Chater House, 8 Connaught Road, Central, 235 Pine Street, 19th Floor, San Francisco, CA 94104, USA Mizuho Bank (USA) Hong Kong, S.A.R., The People’s Republic of China TEL 1-415365-1750 TEL 852-2685-2000 San Francisco Representative Office 235 Pine Street, San Francisco, CA 94104, USA Mizuho Securities USA LLC TEL 1-415-365-1750 Mizuho Securities India Private Limited Philadelphia Office Level 18, TOWER–A, Peninsula Business Park, Two Logan Square, 100 N. 18th Street, Suite 326, Senapati Bapat Marg, Lower Parel, Mumbai 400013, India Mizuho Alternative Investments, LLC TEL 91-22-4353-7600 Philadelphia, PA 19103, USA 757 Third Avenue, 8th Floor, New York, NY 10017, USA TEL 1-267207-3541 TEL 1-212-282-4804 Mizuho Securities (Singapore) Pte. Ltd. Mizuho Capital Markets Corporation 12 Marina View #10-01A, Asia Square Tower 2, Network of Asset Management One Singapore 018961 1440 Broadway, 25th Floor, New York, NY 10018, USA TEL 65-6603-5688 TEL 1-212-547-1500 Asset Management One Hong Kong Limited Mizuho Bank (Switzerland) Ltd Mizuho Desk Loewenstrasse 32, 8021 Zurich, Switzerland Suites 1221-22, Two Pacific Place, 88 Queensway, Hong Kong, S.A.R, The People’s Republic of China (Country/Region) TEL 41-44-216-9111 TEL 852-2918-9030 Austria Mizuho International plc Asset Management One Singapore Pte. Ltd. Mizuho House, 30 Old Bailey, London EC4M 7AU, United Raiffeisen Bank International AG Kingdom 2 Shenton Way #12-01 SGX Centre I, Singapore 068804 TEL 44-20-7236-1090 TEL 65-6532-5470 Am Stadtpark 9, A-1030 Vienna, Austria TEL 43-1-71707-1375 Mizuho International plc Asset Management One USA Inc. 400 Park Avenue, 4th Floor, New York, NY 10022, USA U.A.E. Frankfurt Office TEL 1-212-350-7650 TaunusTurm 34th Floor, Taunustor 1, 60310 Frankfurt am Mashreqbank psc Main, Germany Japan Desk, Mashreqbank Building 3F, Dubai Internet City, TEL 49-69-4272-93001 Asset Management One International Ltd. Mizuho House, 30 Old Bailey, London, EC4M 7AU, UK Mashreqbank, P.O. Box 1250, Dubai, United Arab Emirates TEL 44-207-329-3777 TEL 971-4-363-2324/2285 Mizuho Securities USA LLC 320 Park Avenue, 12th Floor, New York, NY 10022, USA “Mizuho Desk” TEL 1-212-209-9300 By forming tie-ups with major financial institutions in regions where Mizuho does not possess offices, we Mizuho Securities USA LLC offer our customers financial services through various institutions. (Transactions are conducted directly between Atlanta Office the customer and the local financial institution.) 3455 Peachtree Road, 5th Floor, Atlanta, GA 30326, USA TEL 1-404-995-6830 Network of Mizuho Trust & Banking Mizuho Securities USA LLC Boston Office 125 High Street, 21st Floor, Boston, MA 02110, USA Mizuho Trust & Banking TEL 1-617-235-1722 (Luxembourg) S.A. 1B, rue Gabriel Lippmann, L-5365 Munsbach, Mizuho Securities USA LLC Grand Duchy of Luxembourg Chicago Office TEL 352-42-16-17-1 311 South Wacker Drive, Suite 700, Chicago, IL 60606, USA Mizuho Trust & Banking Co. (USA) TEL 1-312-294-8800 135 W. 50th Street, 16th Floor, New York, NY 10020, USA TEL 1-212-373-5900 Mizuho Securities USA LLC Chicago Office (Investment Banking) 311 South Wacker Drive, Suite 2100, Chicago, IL 60606, USA TEL 1-312-855-1111 2017 Integrated Report 130 Investor Information Date of Establishment Convocation of General Meetings of Shareholders January 8, 2003 An ordinary general meeting of shareholders of the Company shall be convened no later than 3 months from the last day of each business Paid-in Capital year and an extraordinary general meeting of shareholders shall be JPY2,256.2 billion convened whenever necessary. Issued Shares Record Date 25,386,307,945 shares 1. The Company shall deem shareholders having voting rights appearing in writing or electronically in the register of shareholders Number of Shareholders as of the end of March 31 of each year as the shareholders who Common Stock: 986,907 are entitled to exercise their rights at the ordinary general meeting of shareholders for the relevant business year. Major Shareholders (Common Stock) 2. The provision of the preceding paragraph shall apply mutatis mutandis to the record date for voting rights at the general Percentage meetings of holders of classes of stock, where there is a matter of shares Shares held outstanding to be resolved at an ordinary general meeting of shareholders that (%) requires, in addition to such resolution, a resolution by the relevant Japan Trustee Services Bank, Ltd. general meeting of holders of class of stock. 1 1,122,309,400 4.42 3. In addition to the preceding two paragraphs, the Company may set (Trustee account) an extraordinary record date, when necessary, by a determination The Master Trust Bank of Japan, Ltd. by Executive Officer(s) under the authority delegated by the Board 2 962,863,300 3.79 (Trustee account) of Directors and upon giving a prior public notice thereof. Japan Trustee Services Bank, Ltd. 3 (Trustee account 9) 627,066,600 2.47 Organizations that Decide Dividends from Surplus, Etc. The Company shall decide distribution of dividends from surplus and Japan Trustee Services Bank, Ltd. other matters provided for in each item of Article 459, Paragraph 1 of 4 492,293,200 1.93 the Companies Act of Japan, not by a resolution of a general meeting (Trustee account 5) of shareholders, but by a resolution of the Board of Directors, unless Japan Trustee Services Bank, Ltd. otherwise provided for in laws or regulations. 5 365,649,900 1.44 (Trustee account 1) Japan Trustee Services Bank, Ltd. Record Date for Distribution of Dividends from Surplus 6 360,809,200 1.42 The record dates for distribution of dividends from surplus of the (Trustee account 2) Company shall be March 31 and September 30 of each year. Japan Trustee Services Bank, Ltd. 7 357,374,400 1.40 (Trustee account 7) STATE STREET BANK ADR* Information 8 353,600,880 1.39 WEST CLIENT – TREATY 505234 Outline of Mizuho Financial Group’s ADR 1. Exchange : New York Stock Exchange 9 JP MORGAN CHASE BANK 385151 307,115,823 1.21 2. Ticker Symbol : MFG 3. CUSIP : 60687Y109 Japan Trustee Services Bank, Ltd. 4. Conversion ratio : 1 ADR = 2 common shares 10 292,440,900 1.15 (Trustee account 4) 5. Depositary bank : The Bank of New York Mellon 101 Barclay Street Notes:1. Figures for the percentage of shares outstanding are rounded down to the New York, NY 10286 nearest second decimal place. Phone: 1-201-680-6825 2. The percentages of shares outstanding are calculated by excluding the U.S. Toll Free: 888-269-2377 treasury stock (6,705,604 shares). http://www.adrbnymellon.com/  (As of March 31, 2017) 6. Local custodian bank : Mizuho Bank, Ltd. * ADRs are securities issued for the purpose of trading in the U.S. in place of the Stock Listing underlying stock of foreign companies. As ADRs are registered with the SEC as U.S. securities, they are traded, settled and held in custody in substantively the (Common Stock) same manner as the stocks of U.S. companies. ADR is an acronym for American Tokyo Stock Exchange Depositary Receipts. Accounting Auditors Ernst & Young ShinNihon LLC Shareholder Register Manager Mizuho Trust & Banking Co., Ltd. Share Unit 100 shares Fiscal Year April 1 to March 31 131 Mizuho Financial Group Disclosure Policy Basic Principles who engage in financial reporting, accounting or disclosure. We We are committed to growing together with our customers in a have also developed the “Internal Controls and Audit Hotline”, a stable and sustainable manner and bringing together our groupwide system designed for obtaining concerns regarding questionable expertise to contribute to the prosperity of economies and societies accounting or auditing matters from both inside and outside throughout the world as the leading Japanese financial services group Mizuho Financial Group. with a global presence and a broad customer base. For this reason, we place one of the highest management priorities on continuing to Disclosure Methods, Other disclose information to our customers, shareholders, and investors (1) Disclosure Methods both in and outside Japan in a fair, timely and appropriate manner, With respect to the information which is required to be disclosed in order that they may form proper judgments and appraisals of the pursuant to applicable domestic and international laws and group. To achieve this aim, we observe applicable domestic and regulations as well as stock exchange rules, we follow the defined international laws and regulations as well as stock exchange rules disclosure procedures such as publishing such information relating to corporate disclosure, and we establish and implement in business reports (Jigyo-Hokoku), annual securities reports appropriate Disclosure Controls and Procedures. (Yukashoken-Hokokusho), Integrated Report (Annual Review) and other disclosure publications, as well as providing such information Disclosure Controls and Procedures through the information distribution systems of domestic and (1) Establishment and Implementation of Disclosure Controls and international stock exchanges and through press releases. We Procedures also endeavor to disclose other information in a fair, timely and Our Disclosure Controls and Procedures are established appropriate manner. When we disclose such information, we to observe applicable domestic and international laws and basically publish on our website the information we disclose. In regulations as well as stock exchange rules and to implement addition, we endeavor to utilize the latest disclosure methods and fair, timely and appropriate corporate disclosure. The Disclosure tools to provide more fair and widespread disclosure. Controls and Procedures are the process carried out by directors, (2) Investor Relations Activities officers and employees of Mizuho Financial Group and include In accordance with our Basic Principles described above, and with Internal Controls over Financial Reporting designed to provide due attention to two-way communication, we endeavor sincerely reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of Financial to facilitate a proper understanding of our management strategies, Reporting and the Preparation of Financial Statements. We have financial condition and other matters. In this way, we aim to established the basic principles underlying our Disclosure Controls earn the trust of the market and obtain an appropriate market and Procedures as well as our internal rules related to Disclosure reputation. Controls and Procedures that govern the management framework Beginning with the disclosure required by applicable domestic for the entire Mizuho Financial Group including group companies, and international laws and regulations as well as stock exchange and we endeavor to establish, implement and continuously rules, we endeavor to grasp properly the types of information improve our Disclosure Controls and Procedures. Our Disclosure desired by the market and to disclose useful and appropriate Committee is the Business Policy Committee that is responsible information voluntarily and proactively. Regarding disclosure of for discussing and coordinating matters relating to Disclosure information we consider particularly important, we communicate Controls and Procedures. such information on an ad hoc basis as and when necessary, even (2) Evaluation of Effectiveness of Disclosure Controls and if a press release has already been issued, through such means as Procedures special briefing sessions. Our Disclosure Controls and Procedures are documented, and In addition, we respect various disclosure principles including evaluation of the overall effectiveness of our Disclosure Controls fair disclosure. Accordingly, at individual calls, private meetings and Procedures is conducted regularly by reviewing the contents or conferences hosted or attended by representatives of Mizuho of such documentation and their implementation. In addition, Financial Group we endeavor to limit carefully our explanations to evaluation of the effectiveness and appropriateness of Disclosure matters already disclosed and facts commonly known. Controls and Procedures is conducted through internal audits. (3) Correction of Misconceptions in the Markets (3) Others If we identify significant misconceptions regarding Mizuho Financial We established a “Code of Ethics for Financial Professionals” to Group in the market due to the spread of rumors or otherwise, be observed by all directors and executive officers, as well as all we endeavor to investigate their causes and correct such managers and other employees within Mizuho Financial Group misconceptions promptly. 2017 Integrated Report 132 Privacy Policy Regarding Customer Information Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. (“MHFG”) hereby establishes and • Mizuho Financial Group uses personal information jointly with announces the “Privacy Policy Regarding Customer Information” (“this designated entities that are publicly informed. Policy”), which sets forth MHFG’s policies for protecting customers’ However, with respect to Specific Personal Information etc., personal information and MHFG’s basic approach in handling Mizuho Financial Group will not provide it to third parties except customers’ personal information (including the customers’ Individual in cases specified in the “Act on the Use of Numbers to Identify a Number and personal information containing the Individual Number Specific Individual in the Administrative Procedure”. (hereafter collectively referred to as “Specific Personal Information, etc.”)), applicable to Mizuho Financial Group which is composed Handling of Sensitive Information of MHFG, its consolidated subsidiaries and affiliates (which are Mizuho Financial Group will not acquire, use and provide to any third accounted for by the equity method) that are listed in MHFG’s party sensitive information* (“sensitive information” as defined in the Financial Reports. Guidelines for Protection of Personal Information in the Financial Sector, including “Personal Information Requiring Attention”) other Policy of Management than in the cases specified in the said Guidelines such as when Mizuho Financial Group recognizes appropriate protection and use of authorized by law or it is necessary to conduct business on condition personal information to be important social responsibilities, and makes that Mizuho Financial Group has customer consent. every effort to appropriately protect and use personal information *Sensitive information refers to the following information: complying with laws and regulations including the “Personal Data • Race, beliefs, social status Protection Law in Japan”, “Act on the Use of Numbers to Identify a • Medical history, healthcare and sex life Specific Individual in the Administrative Procedure” and other related • Criminal record, fact of suffering damage from crime regulations and the internal rules of Mizuho Financial Group, including • Participation in labor union this Policy when Mizuho Financial Group conducts business. • Family origin, legal address on family registry • Other personal information requiring special attention in handling Proper Acquisition in order not to cause unjust discrimination, prejudice, or other Mizuho Financial Group will acquire personal information that is disadvantage on the information subject necessary to conduct its business by proper and lawful means. Security Measures / Safeguards Purpose of Use Mizuho Financial Group will maintain and manage accurate and upMizuho Financial Group will specify the purpose of use of personal to-date personal information, and prevent leakage of information information and will handle the personal information within the scope with necessary and appropriate security measures. Moreover, it will necessary to achieve that purpose, and will not use it beyond that conduct necessary and appropriate supervision of employees and scope. service providers (including subcontractors, etc.) of who handles In cases where special restrictions exist on the use of particular personal information. personal information under laws and/or regulations such as the use of the Individual Number under the “Act on the Use of Numbers to Continuous Improvement Identify a Specific Individual in the Administrative Procedure”, Mizuho Mizuho Financial Group will continuously review this Policy according Financial Group will not handle that particular personal information for to the development of information technologies and the changes in purposes not relevant to said matters. social demand, and improve the handling of personal information. The purpose of use of personal information is set forth through the web site or other measures provided by each company of the Customer Requests concerning retained Personal Data Mizuho Financial Group. Mizuho Financial Group will endeavor to properly and promptly cope with following requests from customers: Providing Personal Information to Third Parties • notification of the purpose of use Mizuho Financial Group will not provide personal information to any • disclosure of retained personal data third party in principle unless the individual concerned has agreed • correction, addition and deletion of retained personal data that to such use or it is authorized by law. However, Mizuho Financial do not reflect the facts Group may provide personal information to relevant entities that are • suspension of use and elimination of retained personal data otherwise specified without customer consent in following cases: • suspension of providing retained personal data to a third party • Mizuho Financial Group entrusts management of personal information that is necessary to achieve the purpose of use to a Comments & Requests third party. Mizuho Financial Group will endeavor to cope with customer’s • Mizuho Financial Group is one of the parties in a consolidation comments and requests for the management of personal information transaction. sincerely and promptly. 133 Mizuho Financial Group Financial Analysis [Under Japanese GAAP] 135 Key Indicators of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. 137 Status of Asset Quality 134 Financial Analysis Key Indicators of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. Key Indicators of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. (Consolidated) Billions of yen As of or for the Fiscal Years ended March 31, 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 Total Income ¥3,351.7 ¥3,235.6 ¥3,180.8 ¥2,940.7 ¥2,914.0 Profit Attributable to Owners of Parent 603.5 670.9 611.9 688.4 560.5 Comprehensive Income 558.1 304.5 1,941.0 832.9 1,270.8 Net Assets 9,273.3 9,353.2 9,800.5 8,304.5 7,736.2 Total Assets 200,508.6 193,458.5 189,684.7 175,822.8 177,411.0 Deposits 130,676.4 117,456.6 113,452.4 101,811.2 99,568.7 Loans and Bills Discounted 78,337.7 73,708.8 73,415.1 69,301.4 67,536.8 Securities 32,353.1 39,505.9 43,278.7 43,997.5 53,472.3 Net Assets per Share (Yen) 335.96 322.46 322.86 253.25 229.70 Profit Attributable to Owners of Parent per Share (Yen) 23.86 26.94 24.91 28.18 22.96 Diluted Profit Attributable to Owners of Parent per Share (Yen) 23.78 26.42 24.10 27.12 22.05 Total Capital Ratio (International Standard (Basel III)) (Note 1) 16.28% 15.41% 14.58% 14.36% 14.19% Tier 1 Capital Ratio (International Standard (Basel III)) (Note 1) 13.3% 12.64% 11.50% 11.35% 11.03% Common Equity Tier 1 Capital Ratio (International Standard (Basel III)) (Note 1) 11.34% 10.50% 9.43% 8.80% 8.16% Net Return on Equity 7.2% 8.3% 8.6% 11.6% 10.9% PER (Times) 8.54x 6.23x 8.47x 7.23x 8.66x Cash Flow from Operating Activities 4,690.1 4,104.1 6,654.9 (2,286.0) 5,858.6 Cash Flow from Investing Activities 5,796.3 3,687.8 2,619.2 10,607.4 (749.6) Cash Flow from Financing Activities (24.5) (521.0) (903.4) (305.7) (283.8) Cash and Cash Equivalents at the end of the fiscal year 45,523.6 35,089.1 27,840.7 19,432.4 11,347.5 Note: 1. Total Capital Ratio, Tier 1 Capital Ratio and Common Equity Tier 1 Capital Ratio are based on the “Standards for Determining the Status of Capital Adequacy in consideration of assets held by a bank holding company and by its subsidiaries, in accordance with Banking Law Article 52-25” (Financial Services Agency Ordinance Announcement No.20, March 27, 2006) 135 Billions of yen As of or for the Fiscal Years ended March 31, 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 Operating Income ¥378.0 ¥333.5 ¥377.7 ¥316.8 ¥262.1 Net Income 326.6 304.3 349.0 285.8 241.3 Common Stock and Preferred Stock 2,256.2 2,255.7 2,255.4 2,254.9 2,254.9 Number of Shares Issued and Outstanding ( )( )( )( )( )( ) Common Stock 25,386,307,945shares 25,030,525,657shares 24,621,897,967shares 24,263,885,187shares 24,164,864,477shares Eleventh Series Class XI Preferred Stock —shares 914,752,000shares 914,752,000shares 914,752,000shares 914,752,000shares Thirteenth Series Class XIII Preferred Stock —shares —shares —shares —shares 36,690,000shares Net Assets 5,342.5 5,197.2 5,096.2 4,900.4 4,788.9 Total Assets 9,269.3 7,064.2 6,603.1 6,251.3 6,202.1 Net Assets per Share (Yen) 210.51 203.58 198.15 188.90 182.43 Dividends per Share (Yen) (Interim Dividends per Share) (Yen) Common Stock 7.5 7.5 7.5 6.5 6 Eleventh Series Class XI Preferred Stock (Note 1) — 20 20 20 20 Thirteenth Series Class XIII Preferred Stock (Note 2) — — — — 30 ( )( )( )( )( )( ) Common Stock 3.75 3.75 3.5 3 3 Eleventh Series Class XI Preferred Stock (Note 1) — 10 10 10 10 Thirteenth Series Class XIII Preferred Stock (Note 2) — — — — 15 Net Income per Share (Yen) 12.91 12.17 14.11 11.53 9.69 Diluted Net Income per Share (Yen) 12.86 11.98 13.74 11.25 9.46 PER (Times) 15.79x 13.81x 14.95x 17.68x 20.53x Dividend Propensity 58.06% 61.62% 53.12% 56.33% 61.91% Notes: 1. Mizuho Financial Group Inc. ( MHFG ) acquired all of the Eleventh Series Class XI Preferred Stock as of July 1, 2016 that had not been requested for acquisition by June 30, 2016 and calcelled all of the Eleventh Seties Class XI Preferred Stock held by MHFG on July 13, 2016. Accordingly, the cash dividends per share of the Eleventh Series Class XI Preferred Stock for fiscal 2017 have not been recorded. 2. As MHFG acquired and cancelled all of the Thirteenth Series Class XIII Preferred Stock as of July 11, 2013, the cash dividends per share of the Thirteenth Series Class XIII Preferred Stock for and after fiscal 2013 have not been recorded. 136 Financial Analysis Status of Asset Quality ○ Credit-related Costs Credit-related Costs (Consolidated) Billions of yen For the Fiscal Years ended March 31, 2017 2016 Change Credit-related Costs ¥47.5 ¥30.4 ¥17.0 Expenses related to Portfolio Problems (including Reversal of 80.2 47.7 32.4 (Provision for) General Reserve for Possible Losses on Loans) Losses on Write-offs of Loans 15.8 46.6 (30.7) Gains on Reversal of Reserves for Possible Losses on Loans and others (32.6) (17.2) (15.3) Credit Costs for Trust Accounts — — — ○ Overview of Non-performing Loans (NPLs) as of March 31, 2017 (the Two Banks) (Banking Accounts) Billions of yen 1. Self-Assessment 2. Disclosed Claims under 3. Non-Accrual, Past Categorization Nonthe Financial ReconstDue & Restructured Obligor Category II Category III Category IV Categorization ruction Act (FRA) Loans 82.7 Claims against Bankrupt Loans to Bankrupt Obligors Bankrupt and Substantially Reserve and Substantially Bankrupt Collateral, Guarantees, etc.: Direct 34.7 Bankrupt Obligors Ratio Obligors 76.6 Write-offs 100% 82.7 82.7 Reserves for Possible Losses: 6.0 Coverage Ratio 100% Non-Accrual 310.1 77.0 Delinquent Loans Claims with Collection Risk Intensive Control 391.5 Collateral, Guarantees, etc.: Amounts for 387.1 Obligors 180.3 Reserve reserves are 387.1 Reserves for Possible Losses: Ratio Coverage Ratio 80.1% recorded under 129.7 62.7% Non-Categorization 43.6 (Note 2) Reserve Ratio against Loans Past Due for Claims for Special Uncovered Portion 3 Months or More 43.1% Claims against Special Attention (Note 1) Claims for Special Attention Obligors 7.8 Watch Obligors 367.2 Attention -Coverage Ratio: 67.9% Collateral, Guarantees, etc.: 367.2 140.5 -Reserve Ratio Coverage Ratio 64.8% Restructured Loans Reserves for Possible Losses: for Uncovered Portion: 45.5% -Reserve Ratio 359.3 97.7 against Total Amount of Special Attention Obligors Claims: 26.7% Other Watch Obligors Reserve Ratio against Total Amount of Claims Total Coverage Ratio Normal Obligors ·Other Watch Obligors: 6.69% 75.4% ·Normal Obligors: 0.06% Total Total Total 83,544.0 837.1 793.5 Notes: 1. Claims for Special Attention is denoted on an individual loans basis. Claims against Special Attention Obligors includes all claims, not limited to Claims for Special Attention. 2. The difference between total Non-Accrual, Past Due & Restructured Loans and total Disclosed Claims under the FRA represents the amount of claims other than loans included in Disclosed Claims under the FRA. 137 ○ Status of Disclosed Claims under the FRA Disclosed Claims under the FRA (Consolidated) (Consolidated) Billions of yen As of March 31, 2017 2016 Change Claims against Bankrupt and Substantially Bankrupt Obligors ¥98.4 ¥83.1 ¥15.2 Claims with Collection Risk 401.2 361.2 39.9 Claims for Special Attention 422.5 464.0 (41.4) Total ¥922.2 ¥908.4 ¥13.7 Note: Above figures are presented net of partial direct write-offs, the amounts of which are indicated in the table below. Billions of yen 2017 2016 Change Amount of Partial Direct Write-offs ¥93.3 ¥157.3 ¥(63.9) (Trust Accounts) Billions of yen As of March 31, 2017 2016 Change Claims against Bankrupt and Substantially Bankrupt Obligors ¥— ¥— ¥— Claims with Collection Risk 2.8 2.8 (0.0) Claims for Special Attention — — — Total ¥2.8 ¥2.8 ¥(0.0) (Consolidated and Trust Accounts) Billions of yen As of March 31, 2017 2016 Change Claims against Bankrupt and Substantially Bankrupt Obligors ¥98.4 ¥83.1 ¥15.2 Claims with Collection Risk 404.1 364.1 39.9 Claims for Special Attention 422.5 464.0 (41.4) Total ¥925.1 ¥911.3 ¥13.7 138 Financial Analysis Status of Asset Quality ○ Status of Non-Accrual, Past Due & Restructured Loans (Consolidated) (Consolidated) Non-Accrual, Past Due & Restructured Loans Billions of yen As of March 31, 2017 2016 Change Loans to Bankrupt Obligors ¥33.3 ¥24.3 ¥9.0 Non-Accrual Delinquent Loans 430.5 396.7 33.8 Loans Past Due for Three Months or More 7.8 0.9 6.9 Restructured Loans 414.7 463.1 (48.4) Total ¥886.4 ¥885.0 ¥1.4 Note: Above figures are presented net of partial direct write-offs, the amounts of which are indicated in the table below. Billions of yen 2017 2016 Change Amount of Partial Direct Write-offs ¥87.4 ¥143.9 ¥(56.4) Ratio to Total Loans % As of March 31, 2017 2016 Change Loans to Bankrupt Obligors 0.04% 0.03% 0.00% Non-Accrual Delinquent Loans 0.54 0.53 0.01 Loans Past Due for Three Months or More 0.01 0.00 0.00 Restructured Loans 0.52 0.62 (0.09) Non-Accrual, Past Due & Restructured Loans / Total Loans 1.13% 1.20% (0.06)% Note: Above figures are presented net of partial direct write-offs. Reserves for Possible Losses on Loans Billions of yen As of March 31, 2017 2016 Change Reserves for Possible Losses on Loans ¥509.1 ¥459.5 ¥49.6 General Reserve for Possible Losses on Loans 344.7 304.8 39.9 Specific Reserve for Possible Losses on Loans 164.4 154.6 9.7 Reserve for Possible Losses on Loans to Restructuring Countries 0.0 0.0 (0.0) Note: Above figures are presented net of partial direct write-offs, the amounts of which are indicated in the table below. Billions of yen 2017 2016 Change Amount of Partial Direct Write-offs ¥93.7 ¥157.8 ¥(64.0) Reserve Ratios for Non-Accrual, Past Due & Restructured Loans % As of March 31, 2017 2016 Change After Partial Direct Write-offs 57.43% 51.92% 5.51% Note: Reserve Ratio = Reserves for Possible Losses on Loans / Total Non-Accrual, Past Due & Restructured Loans. 139 (Trust Accounts) Non-Accrual, Past Due & Restructured Loans Billions of yen As of March 31, 2017 2016 Change Loans to Bankrupt Obligors ¥— ¥— ¥— Non-Accrual Delinquent Loans 2.8 2.8 (0.0) Loans Past Due for Three Months or More — — — Restructured Loans — — — Total ¥2.8 ¥2.8 ¥(0.0) Ratio to Total Loans % As of March 31, 2017 2016 Change Loans to Bankrupt Obligors —% —% —% Non-Accrual Delinquent Loans 23.09 20.84 2.24 Loans Past Due for Three Months or More — — — Restructured Loans — — — Non-Accrual, Past Due & Restructured Loans / Total Loans 23.09% 20.84% 2.24% (Consolidated and Trust Accounts) Non-Accrual, Past Due & Restructured Loans Billions of yen As of March 31, 2017 2016 Change Loans to Bankrupt Obligors ¥33.3 ¥24.3 ¥9.0 Non-Accrual Delinquent Loans 433.4 399.6 33.7 Loans Past Due for Three Months or More 7.8 0.9 6.9 Restructured Loans 414.7 463.1 (48.4) Total ¥889.3 ¥887.9 ¥1.3 Note: Above figures are presented net of partial direct write-offs. Ratio to Total Loans % As of March 31, 2017 2016 Change Loans to Bankrupt Obligors 0.04% 0.03% 0.00% Non-Accrual Delinquent Loans 0.55 0.54 0.01 Loans Past Due for Three Months or More 0.01 0.00 0.00 Restructured Loans 0.52 0.62 (0.09) Non-Accrual, Past Due & Restructured Loans / Total Loans 1.13% 1.20% (0.06)% Note: Above figures are presented net of partial direct write-offs. 140 Financial Analysis Status of Asset Quality ○ Status of Loans by Industry Outstanding Balances by Industry (Consolidated) Billions of yen, % 2017 2016 Change Outstanding Outstanding Outstanding As of March 31, Balance Composition Balance Composition Balance Composition Domestic Total (excluding Loans Booked Offshore) ¥57,081.8 100.00% ¥52,074.3 100.00% ¥5,007.4 / Manufacturing 8,626.6 15.11 8,152.9 15.66 473.6 (0.55)% Agriculture & Forestry 38.8 0.07 44.8 0.09 (5.9) (0.02) Fishery 1.3 0.00 1.2 0.00 0.1 0.00 Mining, Quarrying Industry & Gravel Extraction Industry 224.8 0.39 234.5 0.45 (9.6) (0.06) Construction 643.3 1.13 729.2 1.40 (85.9) (0.27) Utilities 2,212.1 3.88 2,365.0 4.54 (152.8) (0.66) Communication 1,425.0 2.50 1,299.5 2.50 125.5 0.00 Transportation & Postal Industry 2,311.7 4.05 2,252.6 4.33 59.1 (0.28) Wholesale & Retail 4,740.6 8.30 4,999.4 9.60 (258.8) (1.30) Finance & Insurance 4,071.8 7.13 3,700.0 7.10 371.8 0.03 Real Estate 7,021.7 12.30 6,869.3 13.19 152.3 (0.89) Commodity Lease 2,104.6 3.69 1,988.7 3.82 115.9 (0.13) Service Industries 2,658.7 4.66 2,666.3 5.12 (7.6) (0.46) Local Governments 866.0 1.52 913.7 1.75 (47.6) (0.23) Governments 7,662.4 13.42 2,480.7 4.76 5,181.7 8.66 Other 12,471.5 21.85 13,375.8 25.69 (904.3) (3.84) Overseas Total (including Loans Booked Offshore) 21,255.9 100.00 21,634.5 100.00 (378.5) / Governments 672.6 3.16 979.7 4.53 (307.1) (1.37) Financial Institutions 5,759.8 27.10 5,202.7 24.05 557.1 3.05 Other 14,823.4 69.74 15,452.0 71.42 (628.5) (1.68) Total ¥78,337.7 / ¥73,708.8 / ¥4,628.9 / Note: Domestic Total = MHFG and its domestic consolidated subsidiaries (excluding their overseas offices). Overseas Total = Overseas offices of MHFG's domestic consolidated subsidiaries and MHFG's overseas consolidated subsidiaries. ○ Status of Loans by Nationality of Borrowers Balance of Loans to Restructuring Countries (Consolidated) As of March 31, 2017 Billions of yen, % As of March 31, 2016 Billions of yen, % Argentina ¥0.0 Argentina ¥0.0 Total ¥0.0 Total ¥0.0 Ratio to Total Assets 0.00% Ratio to Total Assets 0.00% Note: Listed are loans to the government and related agents in restructuring countries for which Reserves for Possible Losses on Loans to Restructuring Countries are accounted as stipulated under the Japanese Institute of Certified Public Accountants (JICPA) Banking Audit Committee Report No.4. 141 Financial Data of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. [Under Japanese GAAP] 143 Independent Auditor’s Report 144 Consolidated Financial Statements 156 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 142 Financial Data of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. Independent Auditor’s Report The Board of Directors Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. We have audited the accompanying consolidated financial statements of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc., which comprise the consolidated balance sheet as of March 31, 2017, and the consolidated statements of income, comprehensive income, changes in net assets, and cash flows for the year then ended and a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information, all expressed in Japanese yen. Management’s Responsibility for the Consolidated Financial Statements Management is responsible for the preparation and fair presentation of these consolidated financial statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in Japan, and for designing and operating such internal control as management determines is necessary to enable the preparation and fair presentation of the consolidated financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. Auditor’s Responsibility Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these consolidated financial statements based on our audit. We conducted our audit in accordance with auditing standards generally accepted in Japan. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the consolidated financial statements are free from material misstatement. An audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the consolidated financial statements. The procedures selected depend on the auditor’s judgment, including the assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the consolidated financial statements, whether due to fraud or error. The purpose of an audit of the consolidated financial statements is not to express an opinion on the effectiveness of the entity’s internal control, but in making these risk assessments the auditor considers internal controls relevant to the entity’s preparation and fair presentation of the consolidated financial statements in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances. An audit also includes evaluating the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the consolidated financial statements. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion. Opinion In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated financial position of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. as of March 31, 2017, and their consolidated financial performance and cash flows for the year then ended in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in Japan. Convenience Translation We have reviewed the translation of these consolidated financial statements into U.S. dollars, presented for the convenience of readers, and, in our opinion, the accompanying consolidated financial statements have been properly translated on the basis described in Note 1. June 22, 2017 Tokyo, Japan 143 Financial Data of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. Consolidated Financial Statements Consolidated Balance Sheet Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars (Note 1) As of March 31, 2017 2016 2017 Assets Cash and Due from Banks (Notes 16, 38, 40 and 41) ¥ 47,129,583 ¥ 36,315,471 $ 420,049,765 Call Loans and Bills Purchased (Note 40) 1,035,746 893,545 9,231,249 Receivables under Resale Agreements (Note 40) 8,967,777 7,805,798 79,926,715 Guarantee Deposits Paid under Securities Borrowing Transactions (Note 40) 3,350,051 3,407,390 29,857,860 Other Debt Purchased (Notes 40 and 41) 2,745,204 2,979,797 24,467,066 Trading Assets (Notes 9, 16, 40 and 41) 10,361,787 13,004,522 92,351,048 Money Held in Trust (Notes 40 and 41) 247,583 175,638 2,206,629 Securities (Notes 10, 16, 25, 40 and 41) 32,353,158 39,505,971 288,352,572 Loans and Bills Discounted (Notes 11, 16 and 40) 78,337,793 73,708,884 698,197,804 Foreign Exchange Assets (Note 12) 1,828,782 1,447,743 16,299,312 Derivatives other than for Trading Assets (Notes 40 and 42) 2,170,750 3,157,752 19,347,151 Other Assets (Notes 13, 16 and 41) 4,180,339 4,144,131 37,257,927 Tangible Fixed Assets (Notes 14, 27 and 39) 1,136,329 1,085,791 10,127,717 Intangible Fixed Assets (Note 39) 1,045,486 804,567 9,318,064 Net Defined Benefit Asset (Note 24) 797,762 646,428 7,110,182 Deferred Tax Assets (Note 26) 56,066 36,517 499,699 Customers' Liabilities for Acceptances and Guarantees (Note 25) 5,273,581 4,798,158 47,001,614 Reserves for Possible Losses on Loans (Notes 15 and 40) (509,175) (459,531) (4,538,106) Total Assets ¥ 200,508,610 ¥ 193,458,580 $ 1,787,064,268 144 Financial Data of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. Consolidated Financial Statements Consolidated Balance Sheet—(Continued) Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars (Note 1) As of March 31, 2017 2016 2017 Liabilities and Net Assets Liabilities Deposits (Notes 16, 17 and 40) ¥ 130,676,494 ¥ 117,456,604 $ 1,164,674,639 Call Money and Bills Sold (Notes 16, 18 and 40) 1,255,172 2,521,008 11,186,920 Payables under Repurchase Agreements (Notes 16 and 40) 17,969,753 16,833,346 160,158,233 Guarantee Deposits Received under Securities Lending 1,679,300 2,608,971 14,967,025 Transactions (Notes 16 and 40) Commercial Paper (Note 19) 789,705 1,010,139 7,038,377 Trading Liabilities (Notes 9 and 40) 7,923,285 10,276,133 70,617,522 Borrowed Money (Notes 16, 20 and 40) 6,307,230 7,503,543 56,214,177 Foreign Exchange Liabilities (Note 12) 526,053 492,473 4,688,538 Short-term Bonds (Note 21) 226,348 648,381 2,017,362 Bonds and Notes (Notes 22 and 40) 7,564,535 6,120,928 67,420,100 Due to Trust Accounts (Note 40) 4,784,077 5,067,490 42,638,836 Derivatives other than for Trading Liabilities (Notes 40 and 42) 1,784,857 2,571,597 15,907,822 Other Liabilities (Note 23) 3,883,168 5,532,596 34,609,346 Reserve for Bonus Payments 67,633 62,171 602,790 Reserve for Variable Compensation 3,018 2,836 26,906 Net Defined Benefit Liability (Note 24) 55,236 51,514 492,306 Reserve for Director and Corporate Auditor Retirement Benefits 1,327 1,685 11,831 Reserve for Possible Losses on Sales of Loans 298 267 2,657 Reserve for Contingencies 5,680 5,271 50,631 Reserve for Reimbursement of Deposits 19,072 16,154 169,983 Reserve for Reimbursement of Debentures 32,720 39,245 291,629 Reserves under Special Laws 2,309 2,024 20,584 Deferred Tax Liabilities (Note 26) 337,800 414,799 3,010,701 Deferred Tax Liabilities for Revaluation Reserve for Land (Note 27) 66,585 67,991 593,456 Acceptances and Guarantees (Note 25) 5,273,581 4,798,158 47,001,614 Total Liabilities ¥ 191,235,249 ¥ 184,105,335 $ 1,704,413,985 Net Assets Common Stock and Preferred Stock (Note 28) ¥ 2,256,275 ¥ 2,255,790 $ 20,109,406 Capital Surplus 1,134,416 1,110,164 10,110,663 Retained Earnings 3,615,449 3,197,616 32,223,258 Treasury Stock (Note 28) (4,849) (3,609) (43,220) Total Shareholders' Equity 7,001,291 6,559,962 62,400,107 Net Unrealized Gains (Losses) on Other Securities (Note 41) 1,289,985 1,296,039 11,497,195 Deferred Gains or Losses on Hedges 10,172 165,264 90,663 Revaluation Reserve for Land (Note 27) 145,609 148,483 1,297,768 Foreign Currency Translation Adjustments (69,657) (53,689) (620,831) Remeasurements of Defined Benefit Plans (Note 24) 144,866 51,752 1,291,142 Total Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income 1,520,976 1,607,851 13,555,937 Stock Acquisition Rights (Note 29) 1,754 2,762 15,633 Non-controlling Interests 749,339 1,182,668 6,678,606 Total Net Assets 9,273,361 9,353,244 82,650,283 Total Liabilities and Net Assets ¥ 200,508,610 ¥ 193,458,580 $ 1,787,064,268 See accompanying “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements,” which are an integral part of these statements. 145 Consolidated Statement of Income Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars (Note 1) For the Fiscal Years ended March 31, 2017 2016 2017 Income Interest Income (Note 30) ¥ 1,445,555 ¥ 1,426,256 $ 12,883,739 Fiduciary Income 50,627 53,458 451,229 Fee and Commission Income 752,982 751,712 6,711,070 Trading Income (Note 31) 326,230 313,106 2,907,582 Other Operating Income (Note 32) 338,276 326,065 3,014,938 Other Income (Note 34) 438,042 365,036 3,904,124 Total Income 3,351,714 3,235,636 29,872,682 Expenses Interest Expenses (Note 30) 577,737 422,574 5,149,173 Fee and Commission Expenses 149,439 144,160 1,331,906 Trading Expenses (Note 31) 898 2,598 8,010 Other Operating Expenses (Note 33) 92,856 79,650 827,597 General and Administrative Expenses (Note 29) 1,467,221 1,349,593 13,076,841 Other Expenses (Note 35) 279,368 228,807 2,489,912 Total Expenses 2,567,521 2,227,384 22,883,439 Income before Income Taxes 784,193 1,008,252 6,989,243 Income Taxes: Current 199,794 216,354 1,780,701 Refund of Income Taxes (3,259) (3,065) (29,051) Deferred (58,800) 69,260 (524,064) Total Income Taxes 137,735 282,549 1,227,586 Profit 646,457 725,702 5,761,657 Profit Attributable to Non-controlling Interests 42,913 54,759 382,469 Profit Attributable to Owners of Parent ¥ 603,544 ¥ 670,943 $ 5,379,188 146 Financial Data of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. Consolidated Financial Statements Per Share of Common Stock Yen U.S. dollars (Note 1) As of March 31, 2017 2016 2017 Net Income: Basic ¥ 23.86 ¥ 26.94 $ 0.21 Diluted 23.78 26.42 0.21 Cash Dividends 7.50 7.50 0.07 See accompanying “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements,” which are an integral part of these statements. Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars (Note 1) For the Fiscal Years ended March 31, 2017 2016 2017 Profit ¥ 646,457 ¥ 725,702 $ 5,761,657 Other Comprehensive Income (Note 36): (88,326) (421,108) (787,223) Net Unrealized Gains (Losses) on Other Securities (10,965) (438,896) (97,730) Deferred Gains or Losses on Hedges (155,158) 138,829 (1,382,871) Revaluation Reserve for Land (11) 3,630 (98) Foreign Currency Translation Adjustments (12,514) (10,712) (111,534) Remeasurements of Defined Benefit Plans 93,588 (109,362) 834,120 Share of Other Comprehensive Income of Associates Accounted for Using Equity Method (3,266) (4,597) (29,110) Comprehensive Income ¥ 558,131 ¥ 304,594 $ 4,974,434 Comprehensive Income Attributable to Owners of Parent: ¥ 519,532 ¥ 250,405 $ 4,630,418 Comprehensive Income Attributable to Non-controlling Interests: 38,598 54,188 344,016 See accompanying “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements,” which are an integral part of these statements. 147 Consolidated Statement of Changes in Net Assets Millions of yen Shareholders' Equity Common Total Stock and Capital Retained Treasury Shareholders' For the Fiscal Year ended Preferred Surplus Earnings Stock Equity March 31, 2017 Stock Balance as of the beginning ¥ 2,255,790 ¥ 1,110,164 ¥ 3,197,616 ¥ (3,609) ¥ 6,559,962 of the period Cumulative Effects of Changes in Accounting 1,426 1,426 Policies Balance as of the beginning of the period reflecting ¥ 2,255,790 ¥ 1,110,164 ¥ 3,199,042 ¥ (3,609) ¥ 6,561,388 Changes in Accounting Policies Changes during the period Issuance of New Shares 484 484 969 Cash Dividends (190,001) (190,001) Profit Attributable to Owners 603,544 603,544 of Parent Repurchase of Treasury (1,904) (1,904) Stock Disposition of Treasury (55) 663 608 Stock Cancellation of Treasury (1) 1 ― Stock Transfer from Revaluation 2,863 2,863 Reserve for Land Change in Treasury Shares of Parent Arising from 23,823 23,823 Transactions with Noncontrolling Shareholders Net Changes in Items other than Shareholders' Equity Total Changes during the 484 24,251 416,406 (1,239) 439,903 period Balance as of the end of the ¥ 2,256,275 ¥ 1,134,416 ¥ 3,615,449 ¥ (4,849) ¥ 7,001,291 period See accompanying “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements,” which are an integral part of these statements. 148 Financial Data of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. Consolidated Financial Statements Consolidated Statement of Changes in Net Assets—(Continued) Millions of yen Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income Net Total Stock NonUnrealized Deferred Foreign RemeasureTotal Revaluation Accumulated Acquisition Controlling Gains Gains or Currency ments of Net Assets Reserve for Other Rights Interests (Losses) on Losses on Translation Defined Land Comprehensive For the Fiscal Year ended Other Hedges Adjustments Benefit Plans Income March 31, 2017 Securities Balance as of the beginning ¥ 1,296,039 ¥ 165,264 ¥ 148,483 ¥ (53,689) ¥ 51,752 ¥ 1,607,851 ¥ 2,762 ¥1,182,668 ¥ 9,353,244 of the period Cumulative Effects of Changes in Accounting 1,426 Policies Balance as of the beginning of the period reflecting ¥ 1,296,039 ¥ 165,264 ¥ 148,483 ¥ (53,689) ¥ 51,752 ¥ 1,607,851 ¥ 2,762 ¥1,182,668 ¥ 9,354,670 Changes in Accounting Policies Changes during the period Issuance of New Shares 969 Cash Dividends (190,001) Profit Attributable to Owners 603,544 of Parent Repurchase of Treasury (1,904) Stock Disposition of Treasury 608 Stock Cancellation of Treasury ― Stock Transfer from Revaluation 2,863 Reserve for Land Change in Treasury Shares of Parent Arising from 23,823 Transactions with Noncontrolling Shareholders Net Changes in Items other (6,054) (155,091) (2,874) (15,967) 93,113 (86,875) (1,008) (433,328) (521,212) than Shareholders' Equity Total Changes during the (6,054) (155,091) (2,874) (15,967) 93,113 (86,875) (1,008) (433,328) (81,308) period Balance as of the end of the ¥ 1,289,985 ¥ 10,172 ¥ 145,609 ¥ (69,657) ¥ 144,866 ¥ 1,520,976 ¥ 1,754 ¥ 749,339 ¥ 9,273,361 period See accompanying “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements,” which are an integral part of these statements. 149 Consolidated Statement of Changes in Net Assets—(Continued) Millions of yen Shareholders' Equity Common Total Stock and Capital Retained Treasury Shareholders' For the Fiscal Year ended Preferred Surplus Earnings Stock Equity March 31, 2016 Stock Balance as of the beginning ¥ 2,255,404 ¥ 1,110,006 ¥ 2,769,371 ¥ (3,616) ¥ 6,131,166 of the period Cumulative Effects of Changes in Accounting 935 (48,999) (48,063) Policies Balance as of the beginning of the period reflecting ¥ 2,255,404 ¥ 1,110,942 ¥ 2,720,371 ¥ (3,616) ¥ 6,083,102 Changes in Accounting Policies Changes during the period Issuance of New Shares 386 386 772 Cash Dividends (195,264) (195,264) Profit Attributable to Owners 670,943 670,943 of Parent Repurchase of Treasury (653) (653) Stock Disposition of Treasury 81 659 741 Stock Transfer from Revaluation 1,566 1,566 Reserve for Land Change in Treasury Shares of Parent Arising from (1,245) (1,245) Transactions with Noncontrolling Shareholders Net Changes in Items other than Shareholders' Equity Total Changes during the 386 (777) 477,244 6 476,859 period Balance as of the end of the ¥ 2,255,790 ¥ 1,110,164 ¥ 3,197,616 ¥ (3,609) ¥ 6,559,962 period See accompanying “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements,” which are an integral part of these statements. 150 Financial Data of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. Consolidated Financial Statements Consolidated Statement of Changes in Net Assets—(Continued) Millions of yen Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income Net Total Stock NonUnrealized Deferred Foreign RemeasureTotal Revaluation Accumulated Acquisition Controlling Gains Gains or Currency ments of Net Assets Reserve for Other Rights Interests (Losses) on Losses on Translation Defined Land Comprehensive For the Fiscal Year ended Other Hedges Adjustments Benefit Plans Income March 31, 2016 Securities Balance as of the beginning ¥ 1,737,348 ¥ 26,635 ¥ 146,419 ¥ (40,454) ¥ 160,005 ¥ 2,029,955 ¥ 3,820 ¥1,635,595 ¥ 9,800,538 of the period Cumulative Effects of Changes in Accounting (48,063) Policies Balance as of the beginning of the period reflecting ¥ 1,737,348 ¥ 26,635 ¥ 146,419 ¥ (40,454) ¥ 160,005 ¥ 2,029,955 ¥ 3,820 ¥1,635,595 ¥ 9,752,474 Changes in Accounting Policies Changes during the period Issuance of New Shares 772 Cash Dividends (195,264) Profit Attributable to Owners 670,943 of Parent Repurchase of Treasury (653) Stock Disposition of Treasury 741 Stock Transfer from Revaluation 1,566 Reserve for Land Change in Treasury Shares of Parent Arising from (1,245) Transactions with Noncontrolling Shareholders Net Changes in Items other (441,308) 138,628 2,064 (13,235) (108,252) (422,104) (1,057) (452,927) (876,089) than Shareholders' Equity Total Changes during the (441,308) 138,628 2,064 (13,235) (108,252) (422,104) (1,057) (452,927) (399,230) period Balance as of the end of the ¥ 1,296,039 ¥ 165,264 ¥ 148,483 ¥ (53,689) ¥ 51,752 ¥ 1,607,851 ¥ 2,762 ¥1,182,668 ¥ 9,353,244 period See accompanying “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements,” which are an integral part of these statements. 151 Consolidated Statement of Changes in Net Assets—(Continued) Thousands of U.S. dollars (Note 1) Shareholders' Equity Common Total Stock and Capital Retained Treasury Shareholders' For the Fiscal Year ended Preferred Surplus Earnings Stock Equity March 31, 2017 Stock Balance as of the beginning $ 20,105,087 $ 9,894,517 $ 28,499,256 $ (32,173) $ 58,466,687 of the period Cumulative Effects of Changes in Accounting 12,711 12,711 Policies Balance as of the beginning of the period reflecting $ 20,105,087 $ 9,894,517 $ 28,511,967 $ (32,173) $ 58,479,398 Changes in Accounting Policies Changes during the period Issuance of New Shares 4,319 4,319 8,638 Cash Dividends (1,693,416) (1,693,416) Profit Attributable to Owners 5,379,188 5,379,188 of Parent Repurchase of Treasury (16,973) (16,973) Stock Disposition of Treasury (496) 5,916 5,420 Stock Cancellation of Treasury (10) 10 ― Stock Transfer from Revaluation 25,519 25,519 Reserve for Land Change in Treasury Shares of Parent Arising from 212,333 212,333 Transactions with Noncontrolling Shareholders Net Changes in Items other than Shareholders' Equity Total Changes during the 4,319 216,146 3,711,291 (11,047) 3,920,709 period Balance as of the end of the $ 20,109,406 $ 10,110,663 $ 32,223,258 $ (43,220) $ 62,400,107 period See accompanying “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements,” which are an integral part of these statements. 152 Financial Data of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. Consolidated Financial Statements Consolidated Statement of Changes in Net Assets—(Continued) Thousands of U.S. dollars (Note 1) Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income Net RemeasureTotal Stock NonUnrealized Deferred Foreign Total Revaluation ments of Accumulated Acquisition Controlling Gains Gains or Currency Net Assets Reserve for Defined Other Rights Interests (Losses) on Losses on Translation Land Benefit Comprehensive For the Fiscal Year ended Other Hedges Adjustments Plans Income March 31, 2017 Securities Balance as of the beginning $ 11,551,157 $ 1,472,942 $ 1,323,385 $ (478,515) $ 461,257 $ 14,330,226 $ 24,622$10,540,714 $ 83,362,249 of the period Cumulative Effects of Changes in Accounting 12,711 Policies Balance as of the beginning of the period reflecting $ 11,551,157 $ 1,472,942 $ 1,323,385 $ (478,515) $ 461,257 $ 14,330,226 $ 24,622$10,540,714 $ 83,374,960 Changes in Accounting Policies Changes during the period Issuance of New Shares 8,638 Cash Dividends (1,693,416) Profit Attributable to Owners 5,379,188 of Parent Repurchase of Treasury (16,973) Stock Disposition of Treasury 5,420 Stock Cancellation of Treasury ― Stock Transfer from Revaluation 25,519 Reserve for Land Change in Treasury Shares of Parent Arising from 212,333 Transactions with Noncontrolling Shareholders Net Changes in Items other (53,962) (1,382,279) (25,617) (142,316) 829,885 (774,289) (8,989) (3,862,108) (4,645,386) than Shareholders' Equity Total Changes during the (53,962) (1,382,279) (25,617) (142,316) 829,885 (774,289) (8,989) (3,862,108) (724,677) period Balance as of the end of the $ 11,497,195 $ 90,663 $ 1,297,768 $ (620,831) $ 1,291,142 $ 13,555,937 $ 15,633 $6,678,606 $ 82,650,283 period See accompanying “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements,” which are an integral part of these statements. 153 Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars (Note 1) For the Fiscal Years ended March 31, 2017 2016 2017 Cash Flow from Operating Activities Income before Income Taxes ¥ 784,193 ¥ 1,008,252 $ 6,989,243 Depreciation 166,265 159,953 1,481,863 Losses on Impairment of Fixed Assets 6,651 4,412 59,286 Amortization of Goodwill 2,816 830 25,105 Gains and Losses on the Step Acquisition (56,226) ― (501,125) Equity in Loss (Gain) from Investments in Affiliates (18,899) (24,299) (168,441) Increase (Decrease) in Reserves for Possible Losses on Loans 57,472 (53,529) 512,236 Increase (Decrease) in Reserve for Possible Losses on ― (2) ― Investments Increase (Decrease) in Reserve for Possible Losses on Sales of Loans 31 253 276 Increase (Decrease) in Reserve for Contingencies (254) (678) (2,266) Increase (Decrease) in Reserve for Bonus Payments 5,809 3,918 51,781 Increase (Decrease) in Reserve for Variable Compensation 182 2,836 1,628 Decrease (Increase) in Net Defined Benefit Asset (17,677) (65,012) (157,558) Increase (Decrease) in Net Defined Benefit Liability 3,740 3,123 33,339 Increase (Decrease) in Reserve for Director and Corporate (358) 157 (3,193) Auditor Retirement Benefits Increase (Decrease) in Reserve for Reimbursement of Deposits 2,917 303 26,001 Increase (Decrease) in Reserve for Reimbursement of (6,524) (9,633) (58,149) Debentures Interest Income—accrual basis (1,445,555) (1,426,256) (12,883,739) Interest Expenses—accrual basis 577,737 422,574 5,149,173 Losses (Gains) on Securities (357,710) (356,138) (3,188,152) Losses (Gains) on Money Held in Trust 292 (178) 2,604 Foreign Exchange Losses (Gains)—net 107,847 470,492 961,208 Losses (Gains) on Disposition of Fixed Assets 2,608 (2,729) 23,251 Decrease (Increase) in Trading Assets 2,426,324 (2,450,614) 21,625,000 Increase (Decrease) in Trading Liabilities (2,142,414) 1,716,637 (19,094,607) Decrease (Increase) in Derivatives other than for Trading Assets 946,548 291,667 8,436,265 Increase (Decrease) in Derivatives other than for Trading (748,426) (821,313) (6,670,470) Liabilities Decrease (Increase) in Loans and Bills Discounted (5,192,399) (1,784,739) (46,278,067) Increase (Decrease) in Deposits 14,080,723 5,569,737 125,496,648 Increase (Decrease) in Borrowed Money (excluding (1,139,322) 459,006 (10,154,388) Subordinated Borrowed Money) Decrease (Increase) in Due from Banks (excluding Due from Central Banks) (416,740) (295,214) (3,714,264) Decrease (Increase) in Call Loans, etc. (1,333,261) (60,388) (11,882,902) Decrease (Increase) in Guarantee Deposits Paid under 57,338 651,949 511,042 Securities Borrowing Transactions Increase (Decrease) in Call Money, etc. 152,026 (4,087,190) 1,354,962 Increase (Decrease) in Commercial Paper (216,041) 505,568 (1,925,505) Increase (Decrease) in Guarantee Deposits Received under (929,671) 363,332 (8,285,843) Securities Lending Transactions Decrease (Increase) in Foreign Exchange Assets (410,914) 99,358 (3,662,340) Increase (Decrease) in Foreign Exchange Liabilities 33,814 20,826 301,374 Increase (Decrease) in Short-term Bonds (Liabilities) (422,033) (168,323) (3,761,440) Increase (Decrease) in Bonds and Notes ¥ 745,704 ¥ (177,448) $ 6,646,209 154 Financial Data of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. Consolidated Financial Statements Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows—(Continued) Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars (Note 1) For the Fiscal Years ended March 31, 2017 2016 2017 Increase (Decrease) in Due to Trust Accounts ¥ (283,413) ¥ 3,286,722 $ (2,525,964) Interest and Dividend Income—cash basis 1,454,769 1,458,441 12,965,860 Interest Expenses—cash basis (553,494) (386,135) (4,933,110) Other—net (987,540) 43,034 (8,801,606) Subtotal 4,936,937 4,373,564 44,001,225 Cash Refunded (Paid) in Income Taxes (246,806) (269,366) (2,199,700) Net Cash Provided by (Used in) Operating Activities 4,690,131 4,104,197 41,801,525 Cash Flow from Investing Activities Payments for Purchase of Securities (46,111,207) (43,017,178) (410,973,328) Proceeds from Sale of Securities 41,930,689 36,284,439 373,713,810 Proceeds from Redemption of Securities 10,419,553 10,774,422 92,865,895 Payments for Increase in Money Held in Trust (88,905) (21,840) (792,384) Proceeds from Decrease in Money Held in Trust 28,521 3,945 254,205 Payments for Purchase of Tangible Fixed Assets (105,634) (67,298) (941,482) Payments for Purchase of Intangible Fixed Assets (285,561) (257,072) (2,545,112) Proceeds from Sale of Tangible Fixed Assets 8,932 12,913 79,614 Proceeds from Sale of Intangible Fixed Assets 2 0 26 Payments for Purchase of Stocks of Subsidiaries (affecting the scope of consolidation) ― (24,432) ― Net Cash Provided by (Used in) Investing Activities 5,796,391 3,687,897 51,661,244 Cash Flow from Financing Activities Proceeds from Subordinated Borrowed Money 25,000 40,000 222,816 Repayments of Subordinated Borrowed Money (80,000) (189,000) (713,012) Proceeds from Issuance of Subordinated Bonds 795,000 434,517 7,085,561 Payments for Redemption of Subordinated Bonds (76,000) (107,600) (677,362) Proceeds from Issuance of Common Stock 6 4 54 Proceeds from Investments by Non-controlling Shareholders 3,322 1,353 29,615 Repayments to Non-controlling Shareholders (467,320) (452,500) (4,165,062) Cash Dividends Paid (190,031) (195,283) (1,693,683) Cash Dividends Paid to Non-controlling Shareholders (31,168) (49,877) (277,793) Payments for Purchase of Stocks of Subsidiaries (not affecting the scope of consolidation) (216) (2,626) (1,933) Payments for Repurchase of Treasury Stock (1,434) (13) (12,788) Proceeds from Sale of Treasury Stock 0 2 7 Payments for Repurchase of Treasury Stock of Subsidiaries (1,695) ― (15,113) Net Cash Provided by (Used in) Financing Activities (24,537) (521,023) (218,693) Effect of Foreign Exchange Rate Changes on Cash and Cash Equivalents (27,645) (22,723) (246,399) Net Increase (Decrease) in Cash and Cash Equivalents 10,434,339 7,248,347 92,997,677 Cash and Cash Equivalents at the Beginning of the Fiscal Year 35,089,122 27,840,775 312,737,280 Net Increase (Decrease) in Cash and Cash Equivalents from 201 ― 1,796 Merger of Consolidated Subsidiaries Cash and Cash Equivalents at the End of the Fiscal Year (Note 38) ¥ 45,523,663 ¥ 35,089,122 $ 405,736,753 See accompanying “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements,” which are an integral part of these statements. 155 Financial Data of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 1. Basis for Presentation The accompanying consolidated financial statements have been prepared from the accounts maintained by Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. (“MHFG”) and its consolidated subsidiaries in accordance with the provisions set forth in the Company Law of Japan and the Financial Instruments and Exchange Law, and in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in Japan (“Japanese GAAP”) which are different in certain respects from the application and disclosure requirements of International Financial Reporting Standards. Certain items presented in the consolidated financial statements which were previously filed with the Director General of the Kanto Local Finance Bureau are reclassified for the convenience of readers outside Japan. The notes to the consolidated financial statements include information which is not required under Japanese GAAP but is presented herein as additional information. The amounts indicated in millions of yen are rounded down by truncating the figures below one million. Totals may not add up exactly because of such truncation. Amounts in U.S. dollars are included solely for the convenience of readers outside Japan. The rate of ¥112.20=US$1.00, the foreign exchange rate on March 31, 2017 has been used for translation. The inclusion of such amounts is not intended to imply that Japanese yen has been or could be readily converted, realized or settled into U.S. dollars at that rate or any other rate. 2. Scope of Consolidation (a) The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of MHFG and its consolidated subsidiaries (collectively, “the Group”), including Mizuho Bank, Ltd. (“MHBK”), Mizuho Trust & Banking Co., Ltd. (“MHTB”), Mizuho Securities Co., Ltd. (“MHSC”) and certain other subsidiaries. The numbers of consolidated subsidiaries as of March 31, 2017 and 2016 were 139 and 143, respectively. In the fiscal year ended March 31, 2017, Asset Management One Co., Ltd. (former company name: DIAM Co., Ltd.) and 12 other companies were newly included in the scope of consolidation as a result of absorption-type merger stated in “Business Combination, etc.” and other factors. During the period, Shinko Asset Management Co., Ltd. and 16 other companies were excluded from the scope of consolidation as a result of above mentioned absorption-type merger and other factors. (b) There were no non-consolidated subsidiaries as of March 31, 2017 and 2016. 3. Application of the Equity Method (a) There were no non-consolidated subsidiaries under the equity method as of March 31, 2017 and 2016. (b) The numbers of affiliates under the equity method as of March 31, 2017 and 2016 were 18 and 27, respectively. Investments in affiliates include Orient Corporation, The Chiba Kogyo Bank, Ltd., Joint Stock Commercial Bank for Foreign Trade of Vietnam and certain other affiliates. In the fiscal year ended March 31, 2017, Exacta Capital Partners was newly included in the scope of the equity method as a result of new establishment. During the period, DIAM Co., Ltd. and other 9 other companies were excluded from the scope of the equity method as a result of above mentioned absorption-type merger and other factors. (c) There were no non-consolidated subsidiaries not under the equity method as of March 31, 2017 and 2016. (d) Pec International Leasing Co., Ltd. ,an affiliate not under the equity method, is not accounted for under the equity method, as it is not significant to the consolidated financial statements of MHFG. 156 Financial Data of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 4. Balance Sheet Dates of Consolidated Subsidiaries (a) Balance sheet dates of consolidated subsidiaries for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2017 are as follows: July 31 1 company December 29 6 companies December 31 57 companies January 1 2 companies March 31 73 companies (b) Consolidated subsidiaries with balance sheet dates of December 29 were consolidated based on their tentative financial statements as of and for the period ended December 31. The consolidated subsidiaries with balance sheet dates of July 31 and January 1 were consolidated based on its tentative financial statement as of and for the period ended the consolidated balance sheet date. Other consolidated subsidiaries were consolidated based on their financial statements as of and for the period ended their respective balance sheet dates. The necessary adjustments have been made to the financial statements for any significant transactions that took place between their respective balance sheet dates and the date of the consolidated financial statements. 157 5. Standards of Accounting Method (1) Credited Loans pursuant to Trading Securities and Trading Income & Expenses Credited loans held for the purpose of trading are, in line with trading securities, recognized on a trade date basis and recorded in Other Debt Purchased on the consolidated balance sheet. Other Debt Purchased related to the relevant credited loans is stated at fair value at the consolidated balance sheet date. Interest received and the gains or losses on the sale of the relevant credited loans during the fiscal year, including the gains or losses resulting from any change in the value between the beginning and the end of the fiscal year, are recognized in Other Operating Income and Other Operating Expenses on the consolidated statement of income. (2)Trading Assets & Liabilities and Trading Income & Expenses Trading transactions intended to take advantage of short-term fluctuations and arbitrage opportunities in interest rates, currency exchange rates, market prices of securities and related indices are recognized on a trade-date basis and recorded in Trading Assets or Trading Liabilities on the consolidated balance sheet. Income or expenses generated on the relevant trading transactions are recorded in Trading Income or Trading Expenses on the consolidated statement of income. Securities and other monetary claims held for trading purposes are stated at fair value at the consolidated balance sheet date. Derivative financial products, such as swaps, futures and option transactions, are stated at their fair values, assuming that such transactions are terminated and settled at the consolidated balance sheet date. Trading Income and Trading Expenses include the interest received and paid during the fiscal year, the gains or losses resulting from any change in the value of securities and other monetary claims between the beginning and the end of the fiscal year, and the gains or losses resulting from any change in the value of financial derivatives between the beginning and the end of the fiscal year, assuming they were settled at the end of the fiscal year. (3) Securities In accordance with “Accounting Standard for Financial Instruments” (the Business Accounting Deliberation Council, January 22, 1999), MHFG classifies securities, excluding those of investments in non-consolidated subsidiaries and affiliates, into three categories based upon management's intent. These securities are accounted for as follows: (i) Trading securities are carried at market value and included in Trading Assets. (ii) Bonds held to maturity are stated at amortized cost (straight-line method) and determined by the moving average method. (iii) Other securities are securities which are not classified as either trading securities or bonds held to maturity. Other securities which have readily determinable fair value are stated at fair value with changes in net unrealized gains or losses, net of applicable income taxes after excluding gains and losses as a result of the fair-value hedge method, included directly in Net Assets. The fair value of Japanese stocks is determined based on the average quoted market price over the month preceding the consolidated balance sheet date. The fair value of securities other than Japanese stocks is determined at the quoted market price if available, or other reasonable value at the consolidated balance sheet date (cost of securities sold is calculated primarily by the moving-average method). Other securities, the fair values of which are extremely difficult to determine, are stated at acquisition cost or amortized cost which is determined by the moving-average method. In addition, investments in affiliates not under the equity method are stated at acquisition cost as determined by the moving average-method. Securities which are held as trust assets in Money Held in Trust accounts are valued in the same way as Securities above. Certain Securities other than Trading Securities (excluding Securities for which it is deemed to be extremely difficult to determine the fair value) are devalued to the fair value, and the difference between the acquisition cost and the fair value is treated as a loss for the fiscal year (“impairment (devaluation)”), if the fair value (primarily the closing market price at the consolidated balance sheet date) has significantly deteriorated compared with the acquisition cost (including amortized cost), and unless it is deemed that there is a possibility of a recovery in the fair value. The amounts of impairment (devaluation) were ¥1,139 million ($10,155 thousand) and ¥9,161 million for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively. 158 Financial Data of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements The criteria for determining whether a security's fair value has “significantly deteriorated” are outlined as follows: • Security whose fair value is 50% or less of the acquisition cost • Security whose fair value exceeds 50% but is 70% or less of the acquisition cost and the quoted market price maintains a certain level or lower (4) Bills Discounted In accordance with “Accounting and Auditing Treatment relating to Adoption of Accounting Standards for Financial Instruments for Banks” (The Japanese Institute of Certified Public Accountants (“JICPA”) Industry Audit Committee Report No. 24), bills discounted are accounted for as financing transactions. The banking subsidiaries have rights to sell or pledge these bankers' acceptances, commercial bills, documentary bills and foreign exchange bills purchased. The face value of these bills amounted to ¥1,315,137 million ($11,721,364 thousand) and ¥1,304,681 million as of March 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively. (5) Derivative Transactions Derivative transactions are valued at fair value with changes in fair value included in current income. Derivatives qualifying as hedges are mainly accounted for using either the fair-value hedge method or the deferred method of hedge accounting (see (22) Hedge Accounting). (6) Tangible Fixed Assets (Except for Lease Assets) Depreciation of buildings is computed mainly by the straight-line method, and that of others is computed mainly by the declining-balance method. The range of useful lives is as follows: Buildings 3 years to 50 years Others 2 years to 20 years (7) Intangible Fixed Assets (Except for Lease Assets) Amortization of Intangible Fixed Assets is computed by the straight-line method. Development costs for internally-used software are capitalized and amortized over their estimated useful lives of mainly from five to ten years as determined by MHFG and its consolidated subsidiaries. (8) Lease Assets Depreciation of lease assets booked in Tangible Fixed Assets and Intangible Fixed Assets which are concerned with finance lease transactions that do not transfer ownership is mainly computed by the same method as the one applied to fixed assets owned by us. (9) Deferred Assets Bond issuance costs are expensed as incurred. 159 (10) Reserves for Possible Losses on Loans Reserves for Possible Losses on Loans of major domestic consolidated subsidiaries are maintained in accordance with internally established standards for write-offs and reserve provisions: • For claims extended to obligors that are legally bankrupt under the Bankruptcy Law, Special Liquidation under the Company Law or other similar laws (“Bankrupt Obligors”), and to obligors that are effectively in similar conditions (“Substantially Bankrupt Obligors”), reserves are maintained at the amounts of claims net of direct write-offs described below and the expected amounts recoverable from the disposition of collateral and the amounts recoverable under guarantees. • For claims extended to obligors that are not yet legally or formally bankrupt but are likely to be bankrupt (“Intensive Control Obligors”), reserves are maintained at the amounts deemed necessary based on overall solvency analyses of the amounts of claims net of expected amounts recoverable from the disposition of collateral and the amounts recoverable under guarantees. • For claims extended to Intensive Control Obligors and Obligors with Restructured Loans (defined in Note 11 below) and others, if the exposure to an obligor exceeds a certain specific amount, reserves are provided as follows: (i) if future cash flows of the principal and interest can be reasonably estimated, the discounted cash flow method is applied, under which the reserve is determined as the difference between the book value of the loan and its present value of future cash flows discounted using the contractual interest rate before the loan was classified as a Restructured Loan, and (ii) if future cash flows of the principal and interest cannot be reasonably estimated, reserves are provided for the losses estimated for each individual loan. • For claims extended to other obligors, reserves are maintained at rates derived from historical credit loss experience and other factors. • Reserve for Possible Losses on Loans to Restructuring Countries is maintained in order to cover possible losses based on analyses of the political and economic climates of the countries. All claims are assessed by each claim origination department in accordance with the internally established “Self-assessment Standard,” and the results of the assessments are verified and examined by the independent examination departments. In the case of claims to Bankrupt Obligors and Substantially Bankrupt Obligors, which are collateralized or guaranteed by a third party, the amounts deemed uncollectible (calculated by deducting the anticipated proceeds from the sale of collateral pledged against the claims and amounts that are expected to be recovered from guarantors of the claims) are written off against the respective claim balances. The total directly written-off amounts were ¥93,782 million ($835,853 thousand) and ¥157,807 million as of March 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively. Other consolidated subsidiaries provide the amount necessary to cover the loan losses based upon past experience and other factors for general claims and the assessment for each individual loan for other claims. (11) Reserve for Possible Losses on Investments Reserve for Possible Losses on Investments is maintained to provide against possible losses on investments in securities, after taking into consideration the financial condition and other factors concerning the investee company. (12) Reserve for Bonus Payments Reserve for Bonus Payments, which is provided for future bonus payments to employees, is maintained at the amount accrued at the end of the fiscal year, based on the estimated future payments. (13) Reserve for Variable Compensation To prepare for the payments of performance payments and stock compensation to be paid as variable compensation within compensation for directors, executive officers and specialist officers of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc., Mizuho Bank, Ltd., Mizuho Trust & Banking Co., Ltd., and Mizuho Securities Co., Ltd., the estimated payment based on the standard amount regarding variable compensation of this fiscal year is provided. (14) Reserve for Director and Corporate Auditor Retirement Benefits Reserve for Director and Corporate Auditor Retirement Benefits, which is provided for future retirement benefit payments to directors, corporate auditors, and executive officers, is recognized at the amount accrued by the end of this fiscal year, based on the internally established standards. 160 Financial Data of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (15) Reserve for Possible Losses on Sales of Loans Reserve for Possible Losses on Sales of Loans is provided for possible future losses on sales of loans at the amount deemed necessary based on a reasonable estimate of possible future losses. (16) Reserve for Contingencies Reserve for Contingencies is maintained to provide against possible losses from contingencies which are not covered by other specific reserves. The balance is an estimate of possible future losses considered to require a reserve. (17) Reserve for Reimbursement of Deposits Reserve for Reimbursement of Deposits is provided against the losses for the deposits derecognized from liabilities at the estimated amount of future claims for withdrawal by depositors. (18) Reserve for Reimbursement of Debentures Reserve for Reimbursement of Debentures is provided for the debentures derecognized from liabilities at the estimated amount for future claims. (19) Reserve under Special Laws Reserve under Special Laws is Reserve for Contingent Liabilities from Financial Instruments and Exchange of ¥2,309 million ($20,584 thousand) and ¥2,024 million as of March 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively. This is the reserve pursuant to Article 46-5 of the Financial Instruments and Exchange Law and Article 175 of the Cabinet Office Ordinance regarding Financial Instruments Business, etc. to indemnify the losses incurred from accidents in the purchase and sale of securities, other transactions or derivative transactions. (20) Accounting Method for Retirement Benefits In calculating retirement benefit obligations, a benefit formula basis is used as a method of attributing expected retirement benefits to the period up to the end of this fiscal year. Unrecognized actuarial differences are recognized as income or expenses from the following fiscal year under the straight-line method over a certain term within the average remaining service period of the employees (mainly 10 years) of the respective fiscal years. Certain consolidated subsidiaries apply the simplified method that assumes the amount required for voluntary resignation at the end of the term to be retirement benefit obligations in computing net defined benefit liability and retirement benefit expenses. (21) Assets and Liabilities Denominated in Foreign Currencies Assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies and accounts of overseas branches of domestic consolidated banking subsidiaries and a domestic consolidated trust banking subsidiary are translated into Japanese yen primarily at the exchange rates in effect at the consolidated balance sheet date, with the exception of the investments in affiliates not under the equity method, which are translated at historical exchange rates. Assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies of the consolidated subsidiaries, except for the transactions mentioned above, are translated into Japanese yen primarily at the exchange rates in effect at the respective balance sheet dates. 161 (22) Hedge Accounting (a) Interest Rate Risk The deferred method, the fair-value hedge method or the exceptional accrual method for interest rate swaps are applied as hedge accounting methods. The portfolio hedge transaction for a large volume of small-value monetary claims and liabilities of domestic consolidated banking subsidiaries and some of domestic consolidated trust banking subsidiaries is accounted for by the method stipulated in the JICPA Industry Audit Committee Report No.24, February 13, 2002. The effectiveness of hedging activities for the portfolio hedge transaction for a large volume of small-value monetary claims and liabilities is assessed as follows: (i) as for hedging activities to offset market fluctuation risks, the effectiveness is assessed by bracketing both the hedged instruments, such as deposits and loans, and the hedging instruments, such as interest-rate swaps, in the same maturity bucket. (ii) as for hedging activities to fix the cash flows, the effectiveness is assessed based on the correlation between the base interest rate index of the hedged instrument and that of the hedging instrument. The effectiveness of the individual hedge is assessed based on the comparison of the fluctuation in the market or of cash flows of the hedged instruments with that of the hedging instruments. (b) Foreign Exchange Risk Domestic consolidated banking subsidiaries and some of domestic consolidated trust banking subsidiaries apply the deferred method of hedge accounting to hedge foreign exchange risks associated with various financial assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies as stipulated in the “Accounting and Auditing Treatment relating to Adoption of Accounting Standards for Foreign Currency Transactions for Banks” (JICPA Industry Audit Committee Report No.25, July 29, 2002). The effectiveness of the hedge is assessed by confirming that the amount of the foreign currency position of the hedged monetary claims and liabilities is equal to or larger than that of currency swap transactions, exchange swap transactions, and similar transactions designated as the hedging instruments of the foreign exchange risk. In addition to the above methods, these subsidiaries apply the deferred method or the fair-value hedge method to portfolio hedges of the foreign exchange risks associated with investments in subsidiaries and affiliates denominated in foreign currency and Other securities denominated in foreign currency (except for bonds) identified as hedged items in advance, as long as the amount of foreign currency payables of spot and forward foreign exchange contracts exceeds the amount of acquisition cost of the hedged foreign securities denominated in foreign currency. (c) Inter-company Transactions Inter-company interest rate swaps, currency swaps and similar derivatives among consolidated companies or between trading accounts and other accounts, which are designated as hedges, are not eliminated and related gains and losses are recognized in the statement of income or deferred under hedge accounting, because these intercompany derivatives are executed according to the criteria for appropriate outside third-party cover operations which are treated as hedge transactions objectively in accordance with JICPA Industry Audit Committee Reports No.24 and 25. As for certain assets and liabilities of MHFG and its consolidated subsidiaries, the deferred method, the fair-value hedge method or the exceptional accrual method for interest rate swaps are applied. 162 Financial Data of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (23) Consumption Taxes and Other With respect to MHFG and its domestic consolidated subsidiaries, Japanese consumption taxes and local consumption taxes are excluded from transaction amounts. (24) Amortization Method of Goodwill and Amortization Period Goodwill is amortized over an appropriate period not to exceed 20 years under the straight-line method. The full amount of Goodwill that has no material impact is expensed as incurred. (25) Scope of Cash and Cash Equivalents on Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows In the consolidated statement of cash flows, Cash and Cash Equivalents consist of cash and due from central banks included in “Cash and Due from Banks” on the consolidated balance sheet. 6. Change in Accounting Policies (Application of “Revised Implementation Guidance on Recoverability of Deferred Tax Assets”) MHFG has applied “Revised Implementation Guidance on Recoverability of Deferred Tax Assets” (ASBJ Guidance No. 26, March 28, 2016) (hereinafter, the “Recoverability Implementation Guidance”) from the consolidated fiscal year ended March 31, 2017 and partially revised the accounting method of recoverability of deferred tax assets. The Recoverability Implementation Guidance has been applied in accordance with the transitional treatment set forth in Article 49(4) of the Recoverability Implementation Guidance. The differences between (i) the amounts of Deferred Tax Assets and Deferred Tax Liabilities when provisions applicable from ① to ③ of Article 49(3) of the Recoverability Implementation Guidance were applied as of April 1, 2016, and (ii) the amounts of Deferred Tax Assets and Deferred Tax Liabilities at the end of the fiscal year ended March 31, 2016, were added to Retained Earnings as of April 1, 2016. As a result, Deferred Tax Assets (before offset) and Retained Earnings each increased by ¥1,426 million as of April 1, 2016. As a result of reflection of the effects on the Net Assets as of April 1, 2016, the balance of Retained Earnings as of April 1, 2016 in the consolidated statements of changes in net assets increased by ¥1,426 million. 7. Additional Information (The Board Benefit Trust (“BBT”) Program) Since MHFG operates its business giving due regard to creating value for diverse stakeholders and realizing improved corporate value through the continuous and stable growth of MHFG group pursuant to MHFG’s basic management policy defined under the Mizuho Financial Group’s Corporate Identity, MHFG has introduced a performance-based stock compensation program using a trust (the “Program”) that functions as an incentive for each Director, Executive Officer, and Specialist Officer to exert maximum effort in performing his or her duties, and also as consideration for such exertion of effort. (1) Outline of the Program The Program has adopted the Board Benefit Trust (“BBT”) framework. MHFG’s shares on the stock market will be acquired through a trust established based on the underlying funds contributed by MHFG, and MHFG’s shares will be distributed to Directors, Executive Officers, and Specialist Officers of MHFG, Mizuho Bank, Ltd., Mizuho Trust & Banking Co., Ltd., and Mizuho Securities Co., Ltd. (the “Company Group”) in accordance with the Rules on Distribution of Shares to be prescribed in advance. The number of MHFG’s shares to be distributed will be determined pursuant to a performance evaluation based on the annual business plan. A structure has been introduced for the distribution of MHFG’s shares under the Program, whereby the distribution will be deferred over three years, and the deferred portion will be subject to reduction or forfeiture depending on certain factors, including the performance of the Company Group or the relevant Directors, Executive Officers, and Specialist Officers. Voting rights related to MHFG’s shares belonging to the trust assets under the trust shall not be exercised. (2) MHFG’s Shares Outstanding in the Trust MHFG’s shares outstanding in the trust are recognized as Treasury Stock under Net Assets at the carrying amount (excluding the amount of incidental expenses) in the trust. The carrying amount of such Treasury Stock as of March 31, 2017 was ¥1,428 million for 9,000 thousand shares. 163 8. Securities Lending and Borrowing Transactions MHFG does not have unsecured loaned securities which the borrowers have the right to sell or repledge as of March 31, 2017 and 2016. MHFG has the right to sell or repledge some of unsecured borrowed securities, securities purchased under resale agreements and securities borrowed with cash collateral. Among them, the totals of securities repledged were ¥13,471,535 million ($120,067,159 thousand) and ¥11,479,189 million as of March 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively, and securities neither repledged nor re-loaned were ¥675,330 million ($6,018,985 thousand) and ¥798,317 million as of March 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively. 9. Trading Assets and Liabilities Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars As of March 31, 2017 2016 2017 Trading Assets: Trading Securities ¥ 4,800,408 ¥ 5,467,948 $ 42,784,393 Derivatives for Trading Transactions 5,409,525 7,369,060 48,213,239 Derivatives for Trading Securities 151,853 167,514 1,353,416 Total ¥ 10,361,787 ¥ 13,004,522 $ 92,351,048 Trading Liabilities: Trading Securities Sold Short ¥ 2,221,541 ¥ 2,630,040 $ 19,799,836 Derivatives for Trading Transactions 5,475,724 7,500,312 48,803,250 Derivatives for Trading Securities 226,019 145,781 2,014,436 Total ¥ 7,923,285 ¥ 10,276,133 $ 70,617,522 164 Financial Data of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 10. Securities Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars As of March 31, 2017 2016 2017 Japanese Government Bonds ¥ 13,324,305 ¥ 19,525,905 $ 118,754,950 Japanese Local Government Bonds 284,472 240,680 2,535,403 Japanese Short-term Bonds 99 99 891 Japanese Corporate Bonds 2,696,287 2,867,899 24,031,081 Japanese Stocks*1 3,958,439 3,898,737 35,280,212 Other*2 12,089,553 12,972,648 107,750,035 Total ¥ 32,353,158 ¥ 39,505,971 $ 288,352,572 *1 Japanese Stocks included investments in non-consolidated subsidiaries and affiliates of ¥238,208 million ($2,123,072 thousand) and ¥238,076 million as of March 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively. *2 Other included investments in non-consolidated subsidiaries and affiliates of ¥76,405 million ($680,977 thousand) and ¥81,335 million as of March 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively. 11. Loans and Bills Discounted Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars As of March 31, 2017 2016 2017 Loans on Deeds ¥ 67,456,670 ¥ 61,992,177 $ 601,218,100 Overdrafts 7,487,574 7,981,743 66,734,180 Loans on Notes 2,754,696 2,925,491 24,551,658 Bills Discounted 285,395 427,206 2,543,631 Financing Receivables, including Factoring, Leasing and Property Financing 348,514 377,325 3,106,192 Other 4,941 4,941 44,043 Total ¥ 78,337,793 ¥ 73,708,884 $ 698,197,804 Loans and Bills Discounted as of March 31, 2017 and 2016 include the following: Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars As of March 31, 2017 2016 2017 Loans to Bankrupt Obligors*1 ¥ 33,330 ¥ 24,315 $ 297,063 Non-Accrual Delinquent Loans*2 430,525 396,720 3,837,128 Loans Past Due for Three Months or More*3 7,896 907 70,374 Restructured Loans*4 414,700 463,108 3,696,083 Total ¥ 886,452 ¥ 885,052 $ 7,900,648 *1 Loans to Bankrupt Obligors represent non-accrual loans to obligors who are legally bankrupt as defined in Article 96, Paragraph 1, Items 3 and 4 of the Corporate Tax Law Enforcement Ordinance (Government Ordinance No.97, 1965). *2 Non-Accrual Delinquent Loans represent non-accrual loans other than (i) Loans to Bankrupt Obligors and (ii) loans of which payments of interest are deferred in order to assist or facilitate the restructuring of obligors in financial difficulties. *3 Loans to Bankrupt Obligors or Non-Accrual Delinquent Loans, both of which are classified as non-accrual, are not included in this category. *4 Restructured Loans represent loans on which contracts were amended in favor of obligors (e.g., the reduction of or exemption from stated interest, the deferral of interest payments, the extension of maturity dates, or renunciation of claims) in order to assist or facilitate the restructuring of obligors in financial difficulties. Note: The amounts given in the above table are gross amounts before deduction of amounts for the Reserves for Possible Losses on Loans. 165 Commitment Line for Loans Overdraft protection on current accounts and contracts of the commitment line for loans are contracts by which banking subsidiaries are bound to extend loans up to the prearranged amount, at the request of customers, unless the customer is in breach of contract conditions. The unutilized balance of these contracts amounted to ¥91,657,478 million ($816,911,573 thousand) and ¥88,290,896 million as of March 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively. Of these amounts, ¥71,552,248 million ($637,720,573 thousand) and ¥68,209,392 million as of March 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively, relate to contracts of which the original contractual maturity is one year or less, or which are unconditionally cancelable at any time. Since many of these contracts expire without being exercised, the unutilized balance itself does not necessarily affect future cash flows. A provision is included in many of these contracts that entitles the banking subsidiaries to refuse the execution of loans, or reduce the maximum amount under contracts when there is a change in the financial situation, necessity to preserve a claim, or other similar reasons. The banking subsidiaries require collateral such as real estate and securities when deemed necessary at the time the contracts are entered into. In addition, they periodically monitor customers’ business conditions in accordance with internally established standards and take necessary measures to manage credit risks such as amendments to contracts. 12. Foreign Exchange Assets and Liabilities Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars As of March 31, 2017 2016 2017 Foreign Exchange Assets: Foreign Bills Bought ¥ 1,029,741 ¥ 877,475 $ 9,177,733 Foreign Bills Receivable 453,929 301,643 4,045,717 Due from Banks (Foreign) 344,764 268,348 3,072,769 Advance to Foreign Banks 347 275 3,093 Total ¥ 1,828,782 ¥ 1,447,743 $ 16,299,312 Foreign Exchange Liabilities: Due to Banks (Foreign) ¥ 467,017 ¥ 459,956 $ 4,162,367 Advance from Foreign Banks 13,747 13,736 122,524 Foreign Bills Payable 39,767 14,599 354,438 Foreign Bills Sold 5,521 4,180 49,209 Total ¥ 526,053 ¥ 492,473 $ 4,688,538 13. Other Assets Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars As of March 31, 2017 2016 2017 Accrued Income ¥ 270,538 ¥ 279,470 $ 2,411,218 Prepaid Expenses 47,848 45,073 426,453 Other 3,861,952 3,819,587 34,420,256 Total ¥ 4,180,339 ¥ 4,144,131 $ 37,257,927 166 Financial Data of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 14. Tangible Fixed Assets Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars As of March 31, 2017 2016 2017 Land ¥ 641,284 ¥ 605,626 $ 5,715,547 Buildings 348,068 344,311 3,102,211 Lease Assets 26,210 24,919 233,609 Construction in Progress 22,134 19,698 197,280 Other 98,631 91,237 879,070 Total ¥ 1,136,329 ¥ 1,085,791 $ 10,127,717 Accumulated Depreciation ¥ 858,561 ¥ 857,628 $ 7,652,062 Book Value Adjusted for Gains on Sales of Replaced Assets and Others 33,215 34,267 296,042 15. Reserves for Possible Losses on Loans Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars As of March 31, 2017 2016 2017 General Reserve for Possible Losses on Loans ¥ (344,741) ¥ (304,828) $ (3,072,566) Specific Reserve for Possible Losses on Loans (164,430) (154,689) (1,465,515) Reserve for Possible Losses on Loans to Restructuring Countries (2) (13) (25) Total ¥ (509,175) ¥ (459,531) $ (4,538,106) 16. Assets Pledged as Collateral The following assets were pledged as collateral: Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars As of March 31, 2017 2016 2017 Trading Assets ¥ 1,882,123 ¥ 2,674,897 $ 16,774,716 Securities 8,425,757 10,631,675 75,095,877 Loans and Bills Discounted 7,128,930 5,475,195 63,537,708 Other Assets ― 1,015 ― The following liabilities were collateralized by the above assets: Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars As of March 31, 2017 2016 2017 Deposits ¥ 918,743 ¥ 813,050 $ 8,188,445 Payables under Repurchase Agreements 6,109,314 6,090,727 54,450,217 Guarantee Deposits Received under Securities Lending Transactions 1,219,762 2,553,436 10,871,321 Borrowed Money 4,810,490 6,115,880 42,874,249 167 In addition, the settlement accounts of foreign and domestic exchange transactions or derivatives transactions and others were collateralized, and margins for futures transactions were substituted by Cash and Due from Banks of ¥45,404 million ($404,677 thousand) and ¥45,101 million, Trading Assets of ¥126,225 million ($1,125,002 thousand) and ¥98,922 million, Securities of ¥3,919,060 million ($34,929,235 thousand) and ¥4,323,535 million, and Loans and Bills Discounted of ¥238,686 million ($2,127,332 thousand) and ¥307,997 million as of March 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively. Other Assets included guarantee deposits of ¥128,941 million ($1,149,215 thousand) and ¥119,149 million, collateral pledged for derivatives transactions of ¥769,243 million ($6,856,007 thousand) and ¥743,406 million, margins for futures transactions of ¥269,376 million ($2,400,860 thousand) and ¥192,188 million, and other guarantee deposits of ¥337,778 million ($3,010,505 thousand) and ¥187,592 million as of March 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively. 17. Deposits Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars As of March 31, 2017 2016 2017 Current Deposits ¥ 9,983,448 ¥ 7,998,604 $ 88,979,040 Ordinary Deposits*1 64,356,023 52,384,886 573,583,100 Deposits at Notice 1,025,510 931,867 9,140,024 Time Deposits 39,176,701 38,483,960 349,168,461 Negotiable Certificates of Deposit 10,631,277 11,827,533 94,752,915 Other 5,503,533 5,829,751 49,051,099 Total ¥ 130,676,494 ¥ 117,456,604 $ 1,164,674,639 *1 Ordinary Deposits includes savings deposits. 18. Call Money and Bills Sold Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars As of March 31, 2017 2016 2017 Call Money ¥ 1,255,172 ¥ 2,521,008 $ 11,186,920 Bills Sold — — — Total ¥ 1,255,172 ¥ 2,521,008 $ 11,186,920 19. Commercial Paper Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars Average interest rates*1 As of March 31, 2017 2016 2017 2017 2016 Commercial Paper ¥789,705 ¥1,010,139 $7,038,377 1.10% 0.60% *1 Average interest rates are the weighted-average interest rates of debts calculated from the interest rates and outstanding balances at the end of the fiscal year. 168 Financial Data of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 20. Borrowed Money Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars Average interest rates*1 As of March 31, 2017 2016 2017 2017 2016 Borrowed Money ¥6,307,230 ¥7,503,543 $56,214,177 0.38% 0.26% Bills Rediscounted ― ― ― ―% —% Other Borrowings*2,3 6,307,230 7,503,543 56,214,177 0.38% 0.26% *1 Average interest rates are the weighted-average interest rates of debts calculated from the interest rates and outstanding balances at the end of the fiscal year. *2 Other Borrowings included subordinated debt of ¥252,000 million ($2,245,989 thousand) and ¥307,000 million as of March 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively. *3 Repayments for Other Borrowings are scheduled for the next five years as follows: Fiscal year ending March 31, 2018 ¥604,614 million ($5,388,717 thousand) 2019 ¥2,322,042 million ($20,695,566 thousand) 2020 ¥773,087 million ($6,890,263 thousand) 2021 ¥1,468,664 million ($13,089,705 thousand) 2022 ¥73,366 million ($653,891 thousand) 21. Short-term Bonds Major components of Short-term Bonds at March 31, 2017 were as follows: Issuer Issue Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars Interest rates Due MHFG Jan. 2017 ¥80,000 $713,012 0.02% Apr. 2017 [80,000] [713,012] MHSC Apr. 2016–Mar. 2017 111,300 991,979 0.00%–0.01% Apr. 2017– [111,300] [991,979] Sep. 2017 *1 Oct. 2016–Mar. 2017 35,048 312,371 0.02%–0.10% Apr. 2017– [35,048] [312,371] May. 2017 Total ¥226,348 $2,017,362 *1 indicates the total amount of Short-term Bonds issued by the domestic consolidated subsidiary, Allstar Funding Co., Ltd, and the overseas consolidated subsidiaries, JAPAN SECURITIZATION CORPORATION. Notes: 1. Figures indicated in brackets [ ] represent the amounts to be redeemed within one year. 2. No collateral was provided for the above Short-term Bonds. Major components of Short-term Bonds at March 31, 2016 were as follows: Issuer Issue Millions of yen Interest rates Due MHFG Jan. 2016 ¥78,000 0.11% Apr. 2016 [78,000] MHSC Oct. 2015–Mar. 2016 513,700 0.00%–0.10% Apr. 2016– [513,700] Feb. 2017 *1 Nov. 2015–Mar. 2016 56,681 0.07%–0.23% Apr. 2016– [56,681] Jun. 2016 Total ¥648,381 *1 indicates the total amount of Short-term Bonds issued by the domestic consolidated subsidiary, Allstar Funding Co., Ltd, and the overseas consolidated subsidiaries, BLUE HEAVEN FUNDING CORPORATION, JAPAN SECURITIZATION CORPORATION and ETERNAL FUNDING CORPORATION. Notes: 1. Figures indicated in brackets [ ] represent the amounts to be redeemed within one year. 2. No collateral was provided for the above Short-term Bonds. 169 22. Bonds and Notes Major components of Bonds and Notes as of March 31, 2017 were as follows: Thousands of U.S. Interest Issuer Description Issue Millions of yen dollars rates Due MHFG Straight Bonds Jul. 2014– ¥2,632,250 $23,460,339 0.10%– Apr. 2021– Feb.2017 [—] [—] 4.35% MHTB Straight Bonds Dec. 2005 10,000 89,127 2.24% Dec. 2020 [—] [—] MHBK Straight Bonds Aug. 2005– 3,726,331 33,211,509 0.20%– Apr. 2017– Mar. 2017 [1,264,044] [11,265,991] 4.78% (US$ 15,913,528 thousand) (AUD 1,170,000 thousand) (SGD 290,000 thousand) (HKD 1,430,000 thousand) (CNY 250,000 thousand) (THB 3,000,000 thousand) *1 Straight Bonds Jul. 2012– 335,991 2,994,578 4.20%– Jul. 2022– Mar. 2014 [—] [—] 4.60% Mar. 2024 (US$ 2,994,577 thousand) *2 Straight Bonds Sep. 2005– 47,600 424,242 1.30%– Jun. 2018– May 2012 [—] [—] 2.75% *3 Straight Bonds Jan. 2003– 812,362 7,240,305 0.00%– Apr. 2017– Mar. 2017 [150,786] [1,343,908] 23.80% Mar. 2047 (US$ 1,572,350 thousand) (AUD 30,060 thousand) (EUR 895,400 thousand) (BRL 14,500 thousand) Total ¥7,564,535 $67,420,100 *1 indicates the total amount of straight bonds issued by the overseas consolidated subsidiaries, Mizuho Financial Group (Cayman) Limited, Mizuho Financial Group (Cayman) 2 Limited and Mizuho Financial Group (Cayman) 3 Limited. *2 indicates the total amount of straight bonds issued by the overseas consolidated subsidiaries, Mizuho Finance (Cayman) Limited, Mizuho Finance (Curaçao) N.V. and Mizuho Finance (Aruba) A.E.C. *3 indicates the total amount of straight bonds issued by the domestic consolidated subsidiary, MHSC, and the overseas consolidated subsidiaries, Mizuho International plc and Mizuho Securities USA LLC. Notes: 1. Figures indicated in brackets [ ] represent the amounts to be redeemed within one year. 2. The amounts of foreign currency-denominated bonds are shown in original currencies in parentheses ( ). 3. Repayments for Bonds and Notes are scheduled for the next five years as follows: Fiscal year ending March 31, 2018 ¥1,414,830 million ($12,609,899 thousand) 2019 ¥648,802 million ($5,782,551 thousand) 2020 ¥837,267 million ($7,462,278 thousand) 2021 ¥262,480 million ($2,339,396 thousand) 2022 ¥1,068,917 million ($9,526,896 thousand) 4. Bonds and Notes as of March 31, 2017 included subordinated bonds and notes of ¥2,430,741 million ($21,664,364 thousand). 5. No collateral was provided for the above Bonds and Notes. 170 Financial Data of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements Major components of Bonds and Notes as of March 31, 2016 were as follows: Interest Issuer Description Issue Millions of yen rates Due MHFG Straight Bonds Jul. 2014– ¥584,517 0.62%– Jul. 2024– Oct. 2015 [—] 4.35% MHTB Straight Bonds Dec. 2005 10,000 2.24% Dec. 2020 [—] MHBK Straight Bonds Aug. 2005– 4,376,773 0.10%– Apr. 2016– Mar. 2016 [670,580] 9.00% (US$ 17,046,442 thousand) (AUD 930,000 thousand) (SGD 250,000 thousand) (HKD 1,220,000 thousand) (CNY 250,000 thousand) (THB 3,000,000 thousand) *1 Straight Bonds Jul. 2012– 337,361 4.20%– Jul. 2022– Mar. 2014 [—] 4.60% Mar. 2024 (US$ 2,993,712 thousand) *2 Straight Bonds Sep. 2005– 48,600 1.30%– Jun. 2018– May 2012 [—] 2.75% *3 Straight Bonds Jan. 2003– 763,675 0.00%– Apr. 2016– Mar. 2016 [143,009] 16.00% Mar. 2046 (US$ 1,158,490 thousand) (AUD 31,600 thousand) (EUR 295,000 thousand) (BRL 14,500 thousand) Total ¥6,120,928 *1 indicates the total amount of straight bonds issued by the overseas consolidated subsidiaries, Mizuho Financial Group (Cayman) Limited, Mizuho Financial Group (Cayman) 2 Limited and Mizuho Financial Group (Cayman) 3 Limited. *2 indicates the total amount of straight bonds issued by the overseas consolidated subsidiaries, Mizuho Finance (Cayman) Limited, Mizuho Finance (Curaçao) N.V. and Mizuho Finance (Aruba) A.E.C. *3 indicates the total amount of straight bonds issued by the domestic consolidated subsidiary, MHSC, and the overseas consolidated subsidiaries, Mizuho International plc and Mizuho Securities USA Inc. Notes: 1. Figures indicated in brackets [ ] represent the amounts to be redeemed within one year. 2. The amounts of foreign currency-denominated bonds are shown in original currencies in parentheses ( ). 3. Repayments for Bonds and Notes are scheduled for the next five years as follows: Fiscal year ending March 31, 2017 ¥813,589 million 2018 ¥1,334,120 million 2019 ¥580,037 million 2020 ¥809,661 million 2021 ¥270,333 million 4. Bonds and Notes as of March 31, 2016 included subordinated bonds and notes of ¥1,713,478 million. 5. No collateral was provided for the above Bonds and Notes. 171 23. Other Liabilities Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars As of March 31, 2017 2016 2017 Accrued Expenses ¥201,532 ¥174,043 $1,796,187 Unearned Income 129,676 148,994 1,155,761 Income Taxes Payable 71,635 96,714 638,465 Lease Liabilities*1*2 40,947 37,810 364,947 Other 3,439,377 5,075,034 30,653,986 Total ¥3,883,168 ¥5,532,596 $34,609,346 *1 Average interest rate is 1.41% and 1.50% in the fiscal year ended March 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively. It is the weighted-average interest rate of debts calculated from the interest rates and outstanding balances at the end of the fiscal year. *2 Repayments for Lease Liabilities are scheduled for the next five years as follows: Fiscal year ending March 31, 2018 ¥11,047 million ($98,461 thousand) 2019 ¥10,399 million ($92,689 thousand) 2020 ¥8,508 million ($75,836 thousand) 2021 ¥6,019 million ($53,646 thousand) 2022 ¥3,147 million ($28,054 thousand) 24. Reserve for Employee Retirement Benefits (1) MHFG and its domestic consolidated subsidiaries have adopted the Corporate Pension Fund Plans (“Kigyo Nenkin Kikin Seido”), and the Termination Allowance Plans (“Taishoku Ichijikin Seido”) as Defined-Benefit Corporate Pension Plans. In addition, MHFG and certain domestic consolidated subsidiaries have adopted DefinedContribution Pension Plans other than risk-sharing corporate pension as a part of the Termination Allowance Plans while certain other domestic consolidated subsidiaries have established employee retirement benefit trusts. (2) Defined-Benefit Corporate Pension Plans (i) Adjustment between the balances of Retirement Benefit Obligations at the beginning and at the end of the period Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars For the Fiscal Years ended March 31, 2017 2016 2017 Balance of Retirement Benefit Obligations at the beginning of the period ¥1,465,148 ¥1,360,954 $13,058,361 Service Cost 44,340 37,858 395,194 Interest Cost 4,686 9,269 41,773 Unrecognized Actuarial Differences incurred (15,851) 125,669 (141,279) Retirement Benefits paid (66,837) (67,041) (595,699) Other 1,884 (1,562) 16,798 Balance of Retirement Benefit Obligations at the end of the period ¥1,433,371 ¥1,465,148 $12,775,148 Note: The above Retirement Benefit Obligations includes the amount measured by certain consolidated subsidiaries under the simplified method. 172 Financial Data of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (ii) Adjustment between the balances of Plan Assets at the beginning and at the end of the period Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars For the Fiscal Years ended March 31, 2017 2016 2017 Balance of Plan Assets at the beginning of the period ¥2,060,062 ¥2,056,818 $18,360,631 Expected Return on Plan Assets 34,862 39,260 310,721 Unrecognized Actuarial Differences incurred 80,407 (33,958) 716,643 Contributions from employer 50,095 48,924 446,481 Contributions from employee 1,215 1,192 10,830 Retirement Benefits paid (50,972) (50,649) (454,298) Other 226 (1,525) 2,016 Balance of Plan Assets at the end of the period ¥2,175,897 ¥2,060,062 $19,393,024 (iii) Adjustment between the balances of Retirement Benefit Obligations and Plan Assets at the end of the period and Adjustment to the balances of Net Defined Benefit Liability and Net Defined Benefit Asset recorded in the Consolidated Balance Sheet Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars As of March 31, 2017 2016 2017 Retirement Benefit Obligations ¥1,433,371 ¥1,465,148 $12.775,148 Plan Assets (2,175,897) (2,060,062) (19,393,024) Net amount of Liability and Asset recorded in the Consolidated Balance Sheet ¥(742,525) ¥(594,914) $(6,617,876) Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars As of March 31, 2017 2016 2017 Net Defined Benefit Liability ¥55,236 ¥51,514 $492,306 Net Defined Benefit Asset (797,762) (646,428) (7,110,182) Net amount of Liability and Asset recorded in the Consolidated Balance Sheet ¥(742,525) ¥(594,914) $(6,617,876) (iv) Employee Retirement Benefit Expenses and the breakdown Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars For the Fiscal Years ended March 31, 2017 2016 2017 Service Cost ¥43,302 ¥36,841 $385,942 Interest Cost 4,686 9,269 41,773 Expected Return on Plan Assets (34,862) (39,260) (310,721) Amortization of Unrecognized Actuarial Differences 38,699 (3,347) 344,913 Other 3,659 4,177 32,617 Net Retirement Benefit Expenses for DefinedBenefit Corporate Pension Plans ¥55,485 ¥7,681 $494,524 Notes: 1. The amount of employee contributions to Mizuho Pension Fund is deducted from Service Cost. 2. Retirement benefit expenses of some consolidated subsidiaries which adopt the simplified method for calculating retirement benefit obligations are included in Service Cost in full. (v) Remeasurements of Defined Benefit Plans in Other Comprehensive Income Breakdown of Remeasurements of Defined Benefit Plans in Other Comprehensive Income (before deducting tax effect) was as follows: Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars For the Fiscal Years ended March 31, 2017 2016 2017 Unrecognized Actuarial Differences ¥(134,780) ¥162,971 $(1,201,249) Total ¥(134,780) ¥162,971 $(1,201,249) 173 (vi) Remeasurements of Defined Benefit Plans in Total Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income Breakdown of Remeasurements of Defined Benefit Plans in Total Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (before deducting tax effect) was as follows: Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars As of March 31, 2017 2016 2017 Unrecognized Actuarial Differences ¥(201,608) ¥(66,853) $(1,796,863) Total ¥(201,608) ¥(66,853) $(1,796,863) (vii) Plan Assets (a) Ratio of each category to the total amount of Plan Assets was as follows: As of March 31, 2017 2016 Japanese Stocks 56.65% 57.09% Japanese Bonds 17.03% 18.37% Foreign Stocks 12.49% 11.71% Foreign Bonds 4.51% 4.85% General account of life insurance companies 5.72% 5.88% Other 3.60% 2.10% Total 100.00% 100.00% Note: The total amount of Plan Assets includes 57.28% and 56.64% of Employee Retirement Benefit Trusts established for the Corporate Pension Fund Plans and the Termination Allowance Plans as of March 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively. (b) Calculation of Expected Long-term Rate of Return on Plan Assets In determining the Expected Long-term Rate of Return on Plan Assets, current and expected allocation of Plan Assets and current and expected future long-term rate of return from various assets constituting Plan Assets have been considered. (viii) Basis of Actuarial Calculation Major Basis of Actuarial Calculation For the Fiscal Years ended March 31, 2017 2016 Discount Rate mainly 0.02%1.09% mainly 0.01%0.80% Expected Long-term Rate of Return on Plan Assets mainly 1.47%1.90% mainly 1.66%2.20% (3) DefinedContribution Pension Plans The required amount of contributions to DefinedContribution Pension Plans of MHFG and its domestic consolidated subsidiaries was ¥3,186 million ($ 28,399 thousand) and ¥2,698 million for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively. 174 Financial Data of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 25. Acceptances and Guarantees (1) All commitments and contingent liabilities of a material nature resulting from guarantees or otherwise are included in the contra-accounts Acceptances and Guarantees and Customers' Liabilities for Acceptances and Guarantees. The outstanding balances of the accounts were as follows: Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars As of March 31, 2017 2016 2017 Guarantees ¥5,083,740 ¥4,611,650 $45,309,626 Letters of Credit 138,817 137,280 1,237,234 Acceptances 51,023 49,228 454,754 Total ¥5,273,581 ¥4,798,158 $47,001,614 Note: Liabilities for guarantees on corporate bonds included in Securities, which were issued by private placement (Article 2, Paragraph 3 of the Financial Instruments and Exchange Law (the Securities and Exchange Law as of March 31, 2007)) amounted to ¥1,169,267 million ($10,421,280 thousand) and ¥1,039,783 million as of March 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively. (2) The principal amounts promised to be indemnified for money trusts which are entrusted to domestic consolidated trust banking subsidiaries, were ¥1,413,077 million ($12,594,272 thousand) and ¥1,765,076 million as of March 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively. 175 26. Deferred Tax Assets and Liabilities (1) Deferred Tax Assets and Liabilities consisted of the following: Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars As of March 31, 2017 2016 2017 Deferred Tax Assets: Tax Losses Carried Forward ¥180,900 ¥73,028 $1,612,302 Devaluation of Securities 135,401 156,082 1,206,790 Reserves for Possible Losses on Loans 158,222 156,418 1,410,184 Securities Contributed to Employee Retirement Benefit Trust 191,895 184,132 1,710,297 Other 205,790 177,860 1,834,138 Deferred Tax Assets Subtotal: 872,210 747,523 7,773,711 Valuation Allowance (309,434) (275,445) (2,757,882) Total ¥562,776 ¥472,077 $5,015,829 Deferred Tax Liabilities: Net Defined Benefit Asset ¥(243,814) ¥(197,203) $(2,173,035) Net Unrealized Gains on Other Securities (468,793) (507,553) (4,178,196) Other (131,902) (145,602) (1,175,600) Total ¥(844,510) ¥(850,359) $(7,526,831) Net Deferred Tax Assets ¥(281,734) ¥(378,281) $(2,511,002) Notes: 1. In addition to the balances shown in the above table, there is an equivalent amount of deferred tax assets corresponding to tax losses carried forward of ¥271,265 million ($2,417,699 thousand) and ¥268,543 million as of March 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively. Since the tax losses carried forward resulted from transactions among consolidated subsidiaries, the deferred tax assets in the above table and in the consolidated balance sheet exclude the equivalent amount of deferred tax assets. 2. MHFG and domestic subsidiaries are subject to a number of different income taxes. (2) For the fiscal years ended March 31, 2017 and 2016, the reconciliation of the statutory tax rate of MHFG to the effective income tax rate was as follows: For the Fiscal Year ended March 31, 2017 2016 Statutory Tax Rate 30.86% 33.06% Adjustments Change in Valuation Allowance 7.66 (4.47) Permanent Differences (e.g., Cash Dividends Received) (0.96) (1.29) Tax Rate Differences between the Consolidated Subsidiaries (2.59) (3.27) Impact of corporate restructuring in overseas group companies (17.00) 0.01 Adjustment to reduce the amount of deferred tax assets at the end of period due to changes in tax rates ― 0.94 Other (0.41) 3.04 Effective Income Tax Rate 17.56% 28.02% 176 Financial Data of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 27. Revaluation of Land In accordance with the Land Revaluation Law (Proclamation No.34 dated March 31, 1998), land used for business operations of domestic consolidated banking subsidiaries was revalued. The applicable income taxes on the entire excess of revaluation are included in Deferred Tax Liabilities for Revaluation Reserve for Land under Liabilities, and the remainder, net of applicable income taxes, is stated as Revaluation Reserve for Land included in Net Assets. Revaluation date: March 31, 1998 Revaluation method as stated in Article 3, Paragraph 3 of the above law: Land used for business operations was revalued by calculating the value on the basis of the valuation by road rating stipulated in Article 2, Paragraph 4 of the Enforcement Ordinance relating to the Land Revaluation Law (Government Ordinance No.119 promulgated on March 31, 1998) with reasonable adjustments to compensate for sites with long depth and other factors, and also on the basis of the appraisal valuation stipulated in Paragraph 5. The difference at the consolidated balance sheet date between the total fair value of land for business operation purposes, which has been revalued in accordance with Article 10 of the above-mentioned law, and the total book value of the land after such revaluation was ¥117,950 million ($1,051,249 thousand) and ¥131,964 million as of March 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively. 177 28. Common Stock and Preferred Stock Common Stock and Preferred Stock at March 31, 2017 and 2016 were as follows: Number of shares Per share (Yen) Interim Year-end With As of March 31, 2017 Issued and cash cash Liquidation Convertible Redemption Class of stock Authorized outstanding dividend dividend value or not or not Common Stock 48,000,000,000 25,386,307,945 ¥3.75 ¥3.75 ¥— No No Notes: 1. Treasury Stock and stocks held by subsidiaries and affiliates are not excluded. The numbers are as follows: Common Stock 6,705 thousand shares 2. All of the shares of the Eleventh Series Class XI Preferred Stock that had not been requested for acquisition by June 30, 2016 were acquired as of July 1, 2016 and all of the shares of the Eleventh Series Class XI were cancelled on July 13, 2016. Accordingly, the common stock shareholders approved an amendment to the Article of Incorporation accompanied by a decrease in the total number of authorized shares and the total number of authorized shares of the Class XI preferred stock at the Ordinary General Meeting of Shareholders of MHFG held on June 23, 2017. As a result of the amendment, each total number of authorized shares, effective on the same day,shall be as follows: First Series Class XIV Preferred Stock 900,000 thousand shares Second Series Class XIV Preferred Stock 900,000 thousand shares Third Series Class XIV Preferred Stock 900,000 thousand shares Fourth Series Class XIV Preferred Stock 900,000 thousand shares First Series Class XV Preferred Stock 900,000 thousand shares Second Series Class XV Preferred Stock 900,000 thousand shares Third Series Class XV Preferred Stock 900,000 thousand shares Fourth Series Class XV Preferred Stock 900,000 thousand shares First Series Class XVI Preferred Stock 1,500,000 thousand shares Second Series Class XVI Preferred Stock 1,500,000 thousand shares Third Series Class XVI Preferred Stock 1,500,000 thousand shares Fourth Series Class XVI Preferred Stock 1,500,000 thousand shares The total number of shares of the First to Fourth Series Class XIV Preferred Stock, which are authorized to be issued, shall not exceed 900,000,000 in total. The total number of shares of the First to Fourth Series Class XV Preferred Stock, which are authorized to be issued, shall not exceed 900,000,000 in total. The total number of shares of the First to Fourth Series Class XVI Preferred Stock, which are authorized to be issued, shall not exceed 1,500,000,000 in total. 178 Financial Data of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements Number of shares Per share (Yen) Interim Year-end With As of March 31, 2016 Issued and cash cash Liquidation Convertible Redemption Class of stock Authorized outstanding dividend dividend value or not or not Common Stock 48,000,000,000 25,030,525,657 ¥3.75 ¥3.75 ¥— No No Eleventh Series Class XI Preferred Stock 914,752,000 914,752,000 10 10 1,000 Yes No Notes: 1. Treasury Stock and stocks held by subsidiaries and affiliates are not excluded. The numbers are as follows: Common Stock 6,939 thousand shares Eleventh Series Class XI Preferred Stock 815,828 thousand shares 2. Each total number of shares which are authorized to be issued is as follows: First Series Class XIV Preferred Stock 900,000 thousand shares Second Series Class XIV Preferred Stock 900,000 thousand shares Third Series Class XIV Preferred Stock 900,000 thousand shares Fourth Series Class XIV Preferred Stock 900,000 thousand shares First Series Class XV Preferred Stock 900,000 thousand shares Second Series Class XV Preferred Stock 900,000 thousand shares Third Series Class XV Preferred Stock 900,000 thousand shares Fourth Series Class XV Preferred Stock 900,000 thousand shares First Series Class XVI Preferred Stock 1,500,000 thousand shares Second Series Class XVI Preferred Stock 1,500,000 thousand shares Third Series Class XVI Preferred Stock 1,500,000 thousand shares Fourth Series Class XVI Preferred Stock 1,500,000 thousand shares The total number of shares of the First to Fourth Series Class XIV Preferred Stock, which are authorized to be issued, shall not exceed 900,000,000 in total. The total number of shares of the First to Fourth Series Class XV Preferred Stock, which are authorized to be issued, shall not exceed 900,000,000 in total. The total number of shares of the First to Fourth Series Class XVI Preferred Stock, which are authorized to be issued, shall not exceed 1,500,000,000 in total. 179 29. Stock Options Outline of stock options and changes For the fiscal year ended March 31, 2017 (i) Outline of stock options First Series of Stock Second Series of Stock Third Series of Stock As of March 31, 2017 Acquisition Rights of MHFG Acquisition Rights of MHFG Acquisition Rights of MHFG Number of grantees Directors 4 Directors 4 Directors 4 Executive Executive Executive 4 4 4 Officers Officers Officers Directors of Directors of Directors of subsidiaries of 14 subsidiaries of 14 subsidiaries of 12 MHFG MHFG MHFG Executive Executive Executive Officers of Officers of Officers of 71 71 71 subsidiaries of subsidiaries of subsidiaries of MHFG MHFG MHFG Number of stock Common stock 5,409,000 Common stock 5,835,000 Common stock 6,808,000 options*1 Grant date February 16, 2009 September 25, 2009 August 26, 2010 Condition for vesting The grantee may exercise the Stock Acquisition Rights which have been allotted based on his or her capacity as a Director or an Executive Officer of MHFG, MHBK or MHCB immediately following the date on which such grantee loses the status as a Director or an Executive Officer of MHFG, MHBK or MHCB. Required service July 1, 2008 April 1, 2009 April 1, 2010 period to March 31, 2009 to March 31, 2010 to March 31, 2011 Exercise period February 17, 2009 September 28, 2009 August 27, 2010 to February 16, 2029 to September 25, 2029 to August 26, 2030 180 Financial Data of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements Fourth Series of Stock Fifth Series of Stock Sixth Series of Stock As of March 31, 2017 Acquisition Rights of MHFG Acquisition Rights of MHFG Acquisition Rights of MHFG Number of grantees Directors 6 Directors 6 Directors 6 Executive Executive Executive 6 11 36 Officers Officers Officers Directors of Directors of Directors of subsidiaries of 26 subsidiaries of 23 subsidiaries of 22 MHFG MHFG MHFG Executive Executive Executive Officers of Officers of Officers of 130 150 134 subsidiaries of subsidiaries of subsidiaries of MHFG MHFG MHFG Number of stock Common stock 12,452,000 Common stock 11,776,000 Common stock 7,932,000 options*1 Grant date December 8, 2011 August 31, 2012 February 17, 2014 Condition for vesting The grantee may exercise the Stock Acquisition Rights which The grantee may exercise the have been allotted based on his or her capacity as a Director Stock Acquisition Rights which or an Executive Officer of MHFG, MHBK, MHCB, MHTB or have been allotted based on MHSC immediately following the date on which such grantee his or her capacity as a loses the status as a Director or an Executive Officer of Director or an Executive MHFG, MHBK, MHCB, MHTB or MHSC. Officer of MHFG, MHBK, MHTB or MHSC immediately following the date on which such grantee loses the status as a Director or an Executive Officer of MHFG, MHBK, MHTB or MHSC. Required service April 1, 2011 April 1, 2012 April 1, 2013 period to March 31, 2012 to March 31, 2013 to March 31, 2014 Exercise period December 9, 2011 September 3, 2012 February 18, 2014 to December 8, 2031 to August 31, 2032 to February 17, 2034 Seventh Series of Stock As of March 31, 2017 Acquisition Rights of MHFG Number of grantees Directors 2 Executive Officers as defined 12 in the Companies Act Executive Officers as defined 37 in our internal regulations Directors of subsidiaries of 32 MHFG Executive Officers of 113 subsidiaries of MHFG Number of stock Common stock 9,602,000 options*1 Grant date December 1, 2014 Condition for vesting The grantee may exercise the Stock Acquisition Rights which have been allotted based on his or her capacity as a Director, an Executive Officer as defined in Companies Act or an Executive Officer as defined in our internal regulations of MHFG, MHBK, MHTB or MHSC immediately following the date on which such grantee loses the status as a Director, an Executive Officer as defined in Companies Act or an Executive Officer as defined in our internal regulations of MHFG, MHBK, MHTB or MHSC. Required service April 1, 2014 to March 31, 2015 period Exercise period December 2, 2014 to December 1, 2034 *1: Shown in number of shares 181 (ii) Size of stock options and changes (a) Number of stock options (in shares) First Series of Second Series of Third Series of Fourth Series of Fifth Series of For the Fiscal Year ended Stock Acquisition Stock Acquisition Stock Acquisition Stock Acquisition Stock Acquisition March 31, 2017 Rights of MHFG Rights of MHFG Rights of MHFG Rights of MHFG Rights of MHFG Non-vested As of March 31, 2016 124,000 325,000 568,000 1,796,000 3,486,000 Granted ─ ─ ─ ─ ─ Forfeited ─ ─ ─ ─ ─ Vested ─ 105,000 237,000 830,000 1,279,000 Outstanding 124,000 220,000 331,000 966,000 2,207,000 Vested As of March 31, 2016 ─ ─ ─ ─ ─ Vested ─ 105,000 237,000 830,000 1,279,000 Exercised ─ 105,000 237,000 830,000 1,279,000 Forfeited ─ ─ ─ ─ ─ Outstanding ─ ─ ─ ─ ─ Sixth Series of Seventh Series of For the Fiscal Year ended Stock Acquisition Stock Acquisition March 31, 2017 Rights of MHFG Rights of MHFG Non-vested As of March 31, 2016 3,560,000 7,331,000 Granted ─ ─ Forfeited ─ ─ Vested 1,511,000 2,409,000 Outstanding 2,049,000 4,922,000 Vested As of March 31, 2016 ─ ─ Vested 1,511,000 2,409,000 Exercised 1,511,000 2,409,000 Forfeited ─ ─ Outstanding ─ ─ Note: The above table is shown in number of shares. (b) Price information First Series of Second Series of Third Series of Fourth Series of Fifth Series of Stock Acquisition Stock Acquisition Stock Acquisition Stock Acquisition Stock Acquisition As of March 31, 2017 Rights of MHFG Rights of MHFG Rights of MHFG Rights of MHFG Rights of MHFG Exercise price ¥1 per share ¥1 per share ¥1 per share ¥1 per share ¥1 per share Average stock price ─ ¥162.80 ¥162.80 ¥162.80 ¥162.67 upon exercise Fair value at grant date ¥190.91 ¥168.69 ¥119.52 ¥91.84 ¥113.25 per share per share per share per share per share Sixth Series of Seventh Series of Stock Acquisition Stock Acquisition As of March 31, 2017 Rights of MHFG Rights of MHFG Exercise price ¥1 per share ¥1 per share Average stock price ¥162.42 ¥162.39 upon exercise Fair value at grant date ¥192.61 ¥186.99 per share per share 182 Financial Data of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (iii) Estimated number of stock options to be vested Only the number of stock options actually forfeited is reflected because the number of stock options that will be forfeited in the future cannot be readily estimated. For the fiscal year ended March 31, 2016 (i) Outline of stock options First Series of Stock Second Series of Stock Third Series of Stock As of March 31, 2016 Acquisition Rights of MHFG Acquisition Rights of MHFG Acquisition Rights of MHFG Number of grantees Directors 4 Directors 4 Directors 4 Executive Executive Executive 4 4 4 Officers Officers Officers Directors of Directors of Directors of subsidiaries of 14 subsidiaries of 14 subsidiaries of 12 MHFG MHFG MHFG Executive Executive Executive Officers of Officers of Officers of 71 71 71 subsidiaries of subsidiaries of subsidiaries of MHFG MHFG MHFG Number of stock Common stock 5,409,000 Common stock 5,835,000 Common stock 6,808,000 options*1 Grant date February 16, 2009 September 25, 2009 August 26, 2010 Condition for vesting The grantee may exercise the Stock Acquisition Rights which have been allotted based on his or her capacity as a Director or an Executive Officer of MHFG, MHBK or MHCB immediately following the date on which such grantee loses the status as a Director or an Executive Officer of MHFG, MHBK or MHCB. Required service July 1, 2008 April 1, 2009 April 1, 2010 period to March 31, 2009 to March 31, 2010 to March 31, 2011 Exercise period February 17, 2009 September 28, 2009 August 27, 2010 to February 16, 2029 to September 25, 2029 to August 26, 2030 183 Fourth Series of Stock Fifth Series of Stock Sixth Series of Stock As of March 31, 2016 Acquisition Rights of MHFG Acquisition Rights of MHFG Acquisition Rights of MHFG Number of grantees Directors 6 Directors 6 Directors 6 Executive Executive Executive 6 11 36 Officers Officers Officers Directors of Directors of Directors of subsidiaries of 26 subsidiaries of 23 subsidiaries of 22 MHFG MHFG MHFG Executive Executive Executive Officers of Officers of Officers of 130 150 134 subsidiaries of subsidiaries of subsidiaries of MHFG MHFG MHFG Number of stock Common stock 12,452,000 Common stock 11,776,000 Common stock 7,932,000 options*1 Grant date December 8, 2011 August 31, 2012 February 17, 2014 Condition for vesting The grantee may exercise the Stock Acquisition Rights which The grantee may exercise the have been allotted based on his or her capacity as a Director Stock Acquisition Rights which or an Executive Officer of MHFG, MHBK, MHCB, MHTB or have been allotted based on MHSC immediately following the date on which such grantee his or her capacity as a loses the status as a Director or an Executive Officer of Director or an Executive MHFG, MHBK, MHCB, MHTB or MHSC. Officer of MHFG, MHBK, MHTB or MHSC immediately following the date on which such grantee loses the status as a Director or an Executive Officer of MHFG, MHBK, MHTB or MHSC. Required service April 1, 2011 April 1, 2012 April 1, 2013 period to March 31, 2012 to March 31, 2013 to March 31, 2014 Exercise period December 9, 2011 September 3, 2012 February 18, 2014 to December 8, 2031 to August 31, 2032 to February 17, 2034 Seventh Series of Stock As of March 31, 2016 Acquisition Rights of MHFG Number of grantees Directors 2 Executive Officers as defined 12 in the Companies Act Executive Officers as defined 37 in our internal regulations Directors of subsidiaries of 32 MHFG Executive Officers of 113 subsidiaries of MHFG Number of stock Common stock 9,602,000 options*1 Grant date December 1, 2014 Condition for vesting The grantee may exercise the Stock Acquisition Rights which have been allotted based on his or her capacity as a Director, an Executive Officer as defined in Companies Act or an Executive Officer as defined in our internal regulations of MHFG, MHBK, MHTB or MHSC immediately following the date on which such grantee loses the status as a Director, an Executive Officer as defined in Companies Act or an Executive Officer as defined in our internal regulations of MHFG, MHBK, MHTB or MHSC. Required service April 1, 2014 to March 31, 2015 period Exercise period December 2, 2014 to December 1, 2034 *1: Shown in number of shares 184 Financial Data of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (ii) Size of stock options and changes (a) Number of stock options (in shares) First Series of Second Series of Third Series of Fourth Series of Fifth Series of For the Fiscal Year ended Stock Acquisition Stock Acquisition Stock Acquisition Stock Acquisition Stock Acquisition March 31, 2016 Rights of MHFG Rights of MHFG Rights of MHFG Rights of MHFG Rights of MHFG Non-vested As of March 31, 2015 164,000 448,000 805,000 2,842,000 4,840,000 Granted ─ ─ ─ ─ ─ Forfeited ─ ─ ─ ─ ─ Vested 40,000 123,000 237,000 1,046,000 1,354,000 Outstanding 124,000 325,000 568,000 1,796,000 3,486,000 Vested As of March 31, 2015 ─ ─ ─ ─ ─ Vested 40,000 123,000 237,000 1,046,000 1,354,000 Exercised 40,000 123,000 237,000 1,046,000 1,354,000 Forfeited ─ ─ ─ ─ ─ Outstanding ─ ─ ─ ─ ─ Sixth Series of Seventh Series of For the Fiscal Year ended Stock Acquisition Stock Acquisition March 31, 2016 Rights of MHFG Rights of MHFG Non-vested As of March 31, 2015 5,257,000 9,602,000 Granted ─ ─ Forfeited ─ ─ Vested 1,697,000 2,271,000 Outstanding 3,560,000 7,331,000 Vested As of March 31, 2015 ─ ─ Vested 1,697,000 2,271,000 Exercised 1,697,000 2,271,000 Forfeited ─ ─ Outstanding ─ ─ Note: The above table is shown in number of shares. (b) Price information First Series of Second Series of Third Series of Fourth Series of Fifth Series of Stock Acquisition Stock Acquisition Stock Acquisition Stock Acquisition Stock Acquisition As of March 31, 2016 Rights of MHFG Rights of MHFG Rights of MHFG Rights of MHFG Rights of MHFG Exercise price ¥1 per share ¥1 per share ¥1 per share ¥1 per share ¥1 per share Average stock price ¥226.30 ¥226.30 ¥226.30 ¥235.08 ¥229.77 upon exercise Fair value at grant date ¥190.91 ¥168.69 ¥119.52 ¥91.84 ¥113.25 per share per share per share per share per share Sixth Series of Seventh Series of Stock Acquisition Stock Acquisition As of March 31, 2016 Rights of MHFG Rights of MHFG Exercise price ¥1 per share ¥1 per share Average stock price ¥228.00 ¥226.91 upon exercise Fair value at grant date ¥192.61 ¥186.99 per share per share 185 (iii) Estimated number of stock options to be vested Only the number of stock options actually forfeited is reflected because the number of stock options that will be forfeited in the future cannot be readily estimated. 186 Financial Data of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 30. Interest Income and Interest Expenses Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars For the Fiscal Years ended March 31, 2017 2016 2017 Interest Income: Loans and Bills Discounted ¥934,108 ¥921,653 $8,325,384 Securities 279,888 308,089 2,494,549 Call Loans and Bills Purchased 5,234 6,847 46,657 Due from Banks 77,294 67,248 688,900 Receivables under Resale Agreements 79,599 41,328 709,439 Guarantee Deposits Paid under Securities Borrowing Transactions 13,806 8,640 123,050 Other Interest Income 55,624 72,449 495,760 Total ¥1,445,555 ¥1,426,256 $12,883,739 Interest Expenses: Deposits ¥269,618 ¥202,894 $2,403,018 Call Money and Bills Sold 3,234 7,711 28,827 Payables under Repurchase Agreements 120,362 59,983 1,072,745 Guarantee Deposits Received under Securities Lending Transactions 2,793 2,988 24,894 Commercial Paper 7,386 2,285 65,835 Borrowed Money 17,832 21,505 158,938 Other Interest Expenses 156,509 125,203 1,394,916 Total ¥577,737 ¥422,574 $5,149,173 Net ¥867,818 ¥1,003,682 $7,734,566 187 31. Trading Income and Trading Expenses Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars For the Fiscal Years ended March 31, 2017 2016 2017 Trading Income: Net Gains on Trading Securities ¥209,990 ¥174,355 $1,871,569 Net Gains on Derivatives for Trading Transactions 116,240 138,751 1,036,013 Total ¥326,230 ¥313,106 $2,907,582 Trading Expenses: Net Losses on Trading Securities 898 2,598 8,010 Total ¥898 ¥2,598 $8,010 Net ¥325,332 ¥310,507 $2,899,572 32. Other Operating Income Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars For the Fiscal Years ended March 31, 2017 2016 2017 Gains on Foreign Exchange Transactions ¥70,213 ¥37,137 $625,788 Gains on Sales of Bonds 150,722 184,860 1,343,336 Gains on Derivatives other than for Trading or Hedging 3,737 8,410 33,308 Other 113,603 95,657 1,012,506 Total ¥338,276 ¥326,065 $3,014,938 33. Other Operating Expenses Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars For the Fiscal Years ended March 31, 2017 2016 2017 Losses on Sales of Bonds ¥48,016 ¥43,192 $427,957 Losses on Devaluation of Bonds 1,250 644 11,148 Other 43,588 35,814 388,492 Total ¥92,856 ¥79,650 $827,597 34. Other Income Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars For the Fiscal Years ended March 31, 2017 2016 2017 Gains on Sales of Stock ¥295,851 ¥271,115 $2,636,825 Gains on Step Acquisition 56,226 — 501,125 Recovery on Written-off Loans 33,630 18,273 299,735 Indemnity receipt from the erroneous stock order in the securities subsidiary — 12,822 — Gains on Disposition of Fixed Assets 2,588 7,540 23,070 Other 49,746 55,286 443,369 Total ¥438,042 ¥365,036 $3,904,124 188 Financial Data of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 35. Other Expenses Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars For the Fiscal Years ended March 31, 2017 2016 2017 Provision for Reserves for Possible ¥61,557 ¥4,446 $548,637 Losses on Loans System migration-related expenses 44,172 34,892 393,697 Losses on Sales of Stocks 34,718 45,728 309,430 Losses on Impairment of Fixed Assets 6,651 4,412 59,285 Losses on Disposition of Fixed Assets 5,197 4,811 46,321 Other 127,071 134,515 1,132,542 Total ¥279,368 ¥228,807 $2,489,912 36. Comprehensive Income Reclassification adjustments and the related tax effects concerning Other Comprehensive Income Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars For the Fiscal Years ended March 31, 2017 2016 2017 Net Unrealized Gains on Other Securities: The amount arising during the period ¥313,180 ¥(291,966) $2,791,270 Reclassification adjustments (361,830) (332,063) (3,224,867) Before adjustments to tax effects (48,649) (624,030) (433,597) The amount of tax effects 37,684 185,133 335,867 Net Unrealized Gains on Other Securities (10,965) (438,896) (97,730) Deferred Gains or Losses on Hedges: The amount arising during the period (215,077) 230,945 (1,916,908) Reclassification adjustments (8,233) (28,215) (73,381) Before adjustments to tax effects (223,310) 202,730 (1,990,289) The amount of tax effects 68,152 (63,900) 607,418 Deferred Gains or Losses on Hedges (155,158) 138,829 (1,382,871) Revaluation Reserve for Land: The amount arising during the period — — — Reclassification adjustments — — — Before adjustments to tax effects — — — The amount of tax effects (11) 3,630 (98) Revaluation Reserve for Land (11) 3,630 (98) Foreign Currency Translation Adjustments: The amount arising during the period (12,591) (10,173) (112,228) Reclassification Adjustments 77 (413) 694 Before adjustments to tax effects (12,514) (10,586) (111,534) The amount of tax effects — (126) — Foreign Currency Translation Adjustments (12,514) (10,712) (111,534) Remeasurements of Defined Benefit Plans: The amount arising during the period 96,080 (159,624) 856,336 Reclassification Adjustments 38,699 (3,347) 344,913 Before adjustments to tax effects 134,780 (162,971) 1,201,249 The amount of tax effects (41,191) 53,609 (367,129) Remeasurements of Defined Benefit Plans 93,588 (109,362) 834,120 Share of Other Comprehensive Income of Associates Accounted for Using Equity Method: The amount arising during the period (3,266) (4,597) (29,110) The total amount of Other Comprehensive Income ¥(88,326) ¥(421,108) $(787,223) 189 37. Changes in Net Assets For the fiscal year ended March 31, 2017 (i) Types and number of issued shares and of treasury stock are as follows: Thousands of Shares As of Increase during Decrease during As of April 1, 2016 the fiscal year the fiscal year March 31, 2017 Remarks Issued shares Common stock 25,030,525 355,782 ― 25,386,307 *1 Eleventh Series Class XI Preferred *2 Stock 914,752 ― 914,752 ― Total 25,945,277 355,782 914,752 25,386,307 Treasury stock Common stock 10,929 12,188 3,125 19,992 *3 Eleventh Series Class XI Preferred Stock 815,828 98,923 914,752 ― *4 Total 826,757 111,112 917,877 19,992 *1 Increases are due to request for acquisition (conversion) of preferred stock (349,677 thousand shares) and exercise of stock acquisition rights (stock options) (6,105 thousand shares). *2 Decreases are due to cancellation of treasury stock (preferred stock). *3 Increases are due to acquisition of treasury stock by BBT trust account (9,000 thousand shares), repurchase of shares constituting less than one unit (3,188 thousand shares) and other factors. Decreases are due to exercise of stock acquisition rights (stock options) (266 thousand shares) and repurchase of shares constituting less than one unit (2,859 thousand shares). The number of Treasury Stock as of March 31, 2017 includes shares held by BBT trust account (9,000 thousand shares). *4 Increases are due to acquisition of treasury stock (preferred stock) (75,091 thousand shares) and request for acquisition (conversion) of preferred stock (23,832 thousand shares). Decreases are due to cancellation of treasury stock (preferred stock). (ii) Stock acquisition rights and treasury stock acquisition rights are as follows: Class of Number of shares to be issued or transferred shares to upon exercise of stock acquisition rights be issued (Shares) or transferred Balance as upon Balance as of of March Breakdown of exercise of Increase Decrease March 31, 31, 2017 stock stock As of during during As of 2017 (Thousands acquisition acquisition April 1, the fiscal the fiscal March (Millions of of Category rights rights 2016 year year 31, 2017 yen) U.S.dollars) Remarks MHFG Stock acquisition rights — — — — ¥— $— (Treasury — (—) (—) (—) (—) (—) (—) stock acquisition rights) Stock acquisition 1,754 15,633 rights as stock option Consolidated — — subsidiaries (Treasury (—) (—) stock acquisition rights) ¥1,754 $15,633 Total (—) (—) 190 Financial Data of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (iii) Cash dividends distributed by MHFG are as follows (non-consolidated basis): Cash dividends paid during the fiscal year ended March 31, 2017 Cash Cash Cash Cash Dividends Dividends Dividends Dividends (Millions of (Thousands of per Share per Share Record Effective Resolution Type yen) U.S. dollars) (Yen) (U.S. dollars) Date Date May 13, March 31, Common Stock ¥93,838 $836,350 ¥3.75 $0.03 2016 2016 June 3, ( The Board of Directors ) Eleventh Series Class XI Preferred Stock 989 8,817 10 0.09 March 31, 2016 2016 November 14, 2016 September 30, December 6, Common Stock ¥95,173 $848,249 ¥3.75 $0.03 ( The Board of Directors ) 2016 2016 Total ¥190,001 $1,693,416 / / (Note) Cash dividends based on the resolution of the Board of Directors on November 14, 2016 include 33 million of cash dividends on MHFG shares held by BBT trust account. Cash dividends with record dates falling in the fiscal year ended March 31, 2017 and effective dates coming after the end of the fiscal year Cash Cash Cash Cash Dividends Dividends Resource Dividends Dividends (Millions of (Thousands of of per Share per Share Record Effective Resolution Type yen) U.S. dollars) Dividends (Yen) (U.S. dollars) Date Date May 15 2017 Retained March 31, June 5, Common Stock ¥95,173 $848,249 ¥3.75 $0.03 ( The Board of Directors ) Earnings 2017 2017 Total ¥95,173 $848,249 / / (Note) Cash dividends based on the resolution of the Board of Directors on May 15, 2017 include 33 million of cash dividends on MHFG shares held by BBT trust account. 191 For the fiscal year ended March 31, 2016 (i) Types and number of issued shares and of treasury stock are as follows: Thousands of Shares As of Increase during Decrease during As of April 1, 2015 the fiscal year the fiscal year March 31, 2016 Remarks Issued shares Common stock 24,621,897 408,627 — 25,030,525 *1 Eleventh Series Class XI Preferred Stock 914,752 — — 914,752 Total 25,536,649 408,627 — 25,945,277 Treasury stock Common stock 11,649 3,084 3,804 10,929 *2 Eleventh Series Class XI Preferred Stock 701,631 114,197 — 815,828 *3 Total 713,280 117,281 3,804 826,757 *1 Increases are due to request for acquisition (conversion) of preferred stock (403,667 thousand shares) and exercise of stock acquisition rights (stock options) (4,960 thousand shares). *2 Increases are due to repurchase of shares constituting less than one unit and other factors. Decreases are due to exercise of stock acquisition rights (stock options) (1,808 thousand shares) and repurchase of shares constituting less than one unit and other factors (1,996 thousand shares). *3 Increases are due to request for acquisition (conversion) of preferred stock. (ii) Stock acquisition rights and treasury stock acquisition rights are as follows: Class of Number of shares to be issued or transferred shares to upon exercise of stock acquisition rights be issued (Shares) or transferred Balance as upon Balance as of of March Breakdown of exercise of Increase Decrease March 31, 31, 2016 stock stock As of during during As of 2016 (Thousands acquisition acquisition April 1, the fiscal the fiscal March (Millions of of Category rights rights 2015 year year 31, 2016 yen) U.S.dollars) Remarks MHFG Stock acquisition rights — — — — ¥— $— (Treasury — (—) (—) (—) (—) (—) (—) stock acquisition rights) Stock acquisition — 2,762 24,515 rights as stock option Consolidated — — subsidiaries (Treasury — (—) (—) stock acquisition rights) ¥2,762 $24,515 Total — (—) (—) 192 Financial Data of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (iii) Cash dividends distributed by MHFG are as follows (non-consolidated basis): Cash dividends paid during the fiscal year ended March 31, 2016 Cash Cash Dividends Dividends (Millions of per Share Record Effective Resolution Type yen) (Yen) Date Date May 15, March 31, Common Stock ¥98,452 ¥4 2015 2015 June 4, ( The Board of Directors ) Eleventh Series Class XI Preferred Stock 2,131 10 March 31, 2015 2015 November 13, September 30, Common Stock ¥93,240 ¥3.75 2015 2015 December 4, ( The Board of Directors ) Eleventh Series Class XI Preferred Stock 1,440 10 September 30, 2015 2015 Total ¥195,264 / Cash dividends with record dates falling in the fiscal year ended March 31, 2016 and effective dates coming after the end of the fiscal year Cash Cash Dividends Resource Dividends (Millions of of per Share Record Effective Resolution Type yen) Dividends (Yen) Date Date May 13 Retained March 31, Common Stock ¥93,838 ¥3.75 2016 Earnings 2016 June 3, ( The Board of Directors ) Eleventh Series Class XI Preferred Stock 989 Retained Earnings 10 March 31, 2016 2016 Total ¥94,827 / 193 38. Cash Flows 1. Cash and Cash Equivalents on the consolidated statement of cash flows reconciles to Cash and Due from Banks on the consolidated balance sheet as follows: Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars As of March 31, 2017 2016 2017 Cash and Due from Banks ¥47,129,583 ¥36,315,471 $420,049,765 Less: Due from Banks excluding due from Central Banks (1,605,919) (1,226,348) (14,313,012) Cash and Cash Equivalents ¥45,523,663 ¥35,089,122 $405,736,753 2. Significant non-fund transactions: Amount and breakdown of Assets received and Liabilities undertaken as a result of the merger between DIAM Co., Ltd. and Mizuho Asset Management Co., Ltd. are as follows: Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars As of March 31, 2017 2016 2017 a. Assets Total Assets ¥40,850 ¥― $364,088 Cash and Due from Banks 13,704 ― 122,144 Money Held in Trust 11,792 ― 105,101 b. Liabilities Total Liabilities ¥ 9,655 ¥― $86,054 Other Liabilities 7,528 ― 67,098 The amount allocated to Customer-Related Assets and Deferred Tax Liabilities regarding this amount have not been included in Assets and Liabilities. Please refer to Business Combination, etc. for the amount allocated to CustomerRelated Assets. 194 Financial Data of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 39. Lease Transactions Finance Leases (Lessees) Finance lease transactions that do not transfer ownership: (1) Lease Assets: • Tangible fixed assets: mainly equipment • Intangible fixed assets: software (2) The method for computing the amount of depreciation is described in “5 Standards of Accounting Method (8) Lease Assets.” Operating Leases The future lease payments subsequent to the end of the fiscal year for non-cancelable operating lease transactions are summarized as follows: Lessees: Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars As of March 31, 2017 2016 2017 Due in One Year or Less ¥52,279 ¥53,116 $465,954 Due after One Year 211,127 223,770 1,881,706 Total ¥263,407 ¥276,887 $2,347,660 Lessors: Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars As of March 31, 2017 2016 2017 Due in One Year or Less ¥1,113 ¥692 $9,922 Due after One Year 9,712 3,684 86,564 Total ¥10,825 ¥4,376 $96,486 195 40. Financial Instruments 1. Matters Relating to the Conditions of Financial Instruments (1) Policy on Financial Instruments Mizuho Financial Group (MHFG), which primarily engages in banking business, incurs financial liabilities such as customer deposits and market deposits on the funding side while holding financial assets such as customer loans, stocks and bonds on the investment side, and also engages in trading business for certain financial products. Some consolidated subsidiaries conduct securities business and other financial business. For above funding and investment business, MHFG appropriately manages risks of each financial instrument and carefully watches term-gaps and other risk factors. (2) Contents and Risk of Financial Products The main financial assets of the Mizuho group consist of loans to customers, government bonds and stocks. These financial assets are subject to various types of risk that may cause the Group to incur losses due to a decline in, or total loss of, the value of assets, as a result of deterioration in a counterparty’s and/or an issuer’s financial position (“credit risk”), or due to a decline in the value of assets caused by fluctuations in interest rates, stock prices and foreign exchange rates and so on (“market risk”). The Group may also be exposed to the risk of incurring losses when it becomes impossible to execute transactions in the market because of market confusion or losses arising from transactions at prices that are significantly less favorable than usual (“market liquidity risk “). The main financing source of the Mizuho group is a stable source of deposits from its customers in addition to direct funding from the financial market. These financing sources are subject to the risk of losses (“liquidity risk”) arising from funding difficulties due to market disruption or a deterioration in our financial position that makes it difficult for us to raise the necessary funds or that forces us to raise funds at significantly higher interest rates than usual. In addition, the Mizuho group uses derivative financial products to control the interest rate risk related to the assets and liabilities of the Group, as part of our asset and liability management (“ALM”). The Group primarily utilizes the portfolio hedge by grouping numerous financial assets and liabilities such as loans and deposits into similar interest risk units in accordance with risk management policies. Some derivative products like interest rate swaps are used as hedging methods for cash-flow hedges or fair value hedges. The Group applies hedge accounting to the majority of these products, treating them as deferred hedges. The effectiveness of the hedges is assessed periodically by regression analysis and other methods to ensure whether the derivative financial products effectively work in order to offset the exposure to changes in fair value and variable cash flows from hedged items. It should be noted that the Mizuho group uses derivative financial products for trading purposes and so on as well. (3) Risk Management for Financial Products (a) Commitment to Risk Management We recognize the conducting of operations tailored to the risks and managing such risks as a key issue relating to overall management. In order to implement our business strategy while maintaining our financial stability, we maintain comprehensive risk management and control measures. We maintain basic policies for risk management established by our board of directors that are applicable to the entire Mizuho group. These policies clearly define the kinds of risks to be managed, set forth the organizational structure and provide for the human resources training necessary for appropriate levels of risk management. The policies also provide for audits to measure the effectiveness and suitability of the risk management structure. In line with these basic policies, we maintain various measures to strengthen and enhance the sophistication of our risk management system. (b) General Concept of Risk Management We classify our risk exposures according to the various kinds of risk, including credit risk, market risk, liquidity risk and operational risk, and manage each type of risk according to its characteristics. In addition to managing each type of risk individually, we have established a risk management structure to identify and evaluate overall risk and, where necessary, to devise appropriate responses to keep risk within limits that are managerially acceptable in both qualitative and quantitative terms. More specifically, we allocate risk capital to core group companies, including their respective subsidiaries, to control risk within the limits set for each company. We also control risk within managerially acceptable limits by 196 Financial Data of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements working to ensure that the overall risk we hold on a consolidated basis does not exceed shareholders’ equity and other measures of financial strength. To ensure the ongoing financial health of Mizuho Financial Group, we regularly monitor the manner in which risk capital is being used in order to obtain a proper grasp of the risk profile within this framework. Reports are also submitted to the board of directors and other committees of each company. (c) Credit Risk Management The board of directors of Mizuho Financial Group determines basic matters pertaining to credit risk management. In addition, we have established the Risk Management Committee, as one of its business policy committees. This committee broadly discusses and coordinates basic policy in connection with credit risk management and matters in connection with overall credit portfolio management and credit risk monitoring for the Mizuho group. Under the control of the Chief Risk Officer of Mizuho Financial Group, the Risk Management Division and the Credit Risk Management Division jointly monitor, analyze and submit suggestions concerning credit risk and formulate and execute plans in connection with basic matters pertaining to credit risk management. We have adopted two different but mutually complementary approaches in credit risk management. The first approach is “credit management,” in which we manage the process for each individual transaction and individual obligor from execution until collection, based on our assessment of the credit quality of the customer. Through this process, we curb losses in the case of a credit event. The second is “credit portfolio management,” in which we utilize statistical methods to assess the potential for losses related to credit risk. Through this process, we identify credit risk and respond appropriately. We use statistical methods to manage the possibility of losses by measuring the expected average loss for a oneyear risk horizon (“expected loss”) and the maximum loss within a certain confidence interval (“credit VAR”). The difference between expected loss and credit VAR is measured as the credit risk amount (“unexpected loss”). We recognize two types of risk arising from allowing unexpected loss to become too large. One type is “credit concentration risk,” which stems from granting excessive credit to certain individual counterparties or corporate groups. The other type is “chain-reaction default risk,” which arises from granting excessive credit to certain areas, industrial sectors and other groupings. We manage these risks appropriately in line with our specific guidelines for each. The board of directors of each of our principal banking subsidiaries and other core group companies determines key matters pertaining to credit risk in line with basic policies set forth by Mizuho Financial Group. Their respective business policy committees are responsible for discussing and coordinating overall management of their individual credit portfolios and transaction policies towards obligors. The chief risk officer of each principal banking subsidiary and core group company is responsible for matters relating to planning and implementing credit risk management. The credit risk management division of each principal banking subsidiary is responsible for planning and administering credit risk management and conducting credit risk measuring and monitoring. Each credit division determines policies and approves/disapproves individual transactions regarding review and management of and collection from customers in accordance with the lines of authority set forth by each principal banking subsidiary. In addition, each of our principal banking subsidiaries has also established internal audit groups that are independent of the business divisions in order to ensure appropriate credit risk management. (d) Market Risk Management The board of directors of Mizuho Financial Group determines basic matters pertaining to market risk management policies. In addition, we have established the Risk Management Committee, as one of its business policy committees. The committee broadly discusses and coordinates matters relating to basic asset and liability management policies, risk planning and market risk management and proposes responses to emergencies such as sudden market changes. The Chief Risk Officer of Mizuho Financial Group is responsible for matters relating to market risk management planning and operations. The Risk Management Division of Mizuho Financial Group is responsible for monitoring market risk, reports and analyses, proposals, setting limits and guidelines, and formulating and implementing plans relating to market risk management. In addition, the division assesses and manages the overall market risk of the Mizuho group as a whole and keeps track of the market risk situation of our principal banking subsidiaries and other core group companies. The division also submits reports to the President & CEO on a daily basis and to our board of directors and the executive management committee of Mizuho Financial Group on a regular basis. To manage market risk, we set limits that correspond to risk capital allocations. The amount of risk capital allocated to market risk corresponds to VAR and additional costs that may arise in order to close relevant positions. 197 For trading and banking activities, we set limits for VAR and for losses. For banking activities, we set position limits based on interest rate sensitivity as needed. Our principal banking subsidiaries and certain other core group companies have formulated their basic policies in line with the basic policies determined by Mizuho Financial Group. Their boards of directors determine important matters relating to market risk management while their Chief Executive Officers are responsible for controlling market risk. Based on a common Mizuho group risk capital allocation framework, the above-mentioned companies manage market risk by setting limits according to the risk capital allocated to market risk by Mizuho Financial Group. They have the same market risk management structure as the Mizuho Financial Group, such as their business policy committees being responsible for overall discussion and coordination of the market risk management. In addition, they have established middle offices specializing in risk management that are independent of their front offices, which engage in market transactions, and their back offices, which are responsible for book entries and settlements. This system enables them to achieve mutual checks and control over market operations. When VAR is not adequate to control risk, the middle offices manage risk using additional risk indices such as 10 BPV (Basis Point Value), carry out stress tests and set stop loss limits as needed. (e) Situation of Market Risk i. Banking Business The following table shows the VAR figures relating to our banking activities for the fiscal years indicated: Billions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars For the Fiscal Years ended March 31, 2017 2016 2017 As of fiscal year end ¥292.7 ¥321.5 $2,609,540 Maximum 397.5 360.6 3,542,851 Minimum 247.4 190.0 2,205,433 Average 331.0 284.9 2,950,809 [Definition of Banking Business] The following transactions are categorized as banking business, with trading business and cross-shareholdings being categorized separately. (1) Deposits and loans as well as related funding activities, and hedge against interest rate risk. (2) Equity (excluding cross-shareholdings), bonds, investment trusts, etc. and hedges against related market risk. The core deposit of liquid deposits is to be specified and incorporated into the measurement of market risk. Banking business VAR used to calculate Market Risk Equivalent is based on the following: • VAR : historical simulation method; • confidence interval: one-tailed 99%; • holding period of one month ; and • historical observation period of three years. 198 Financial Data of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements ii. Trading Business The following table shows VAR figures of our trading activities for the fiscal years indicated : Billions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars For the Fiscal Years ended March 31, 2017 2016 2017 As of fiscal year end ¥2.6 ¥2.0 $23,230 Maximum 5.8 4.5 52,492 Minimum 2.3 1.8 21,295 Average 3.3 2.9 30,234 [Definition of Trading Business] (1) Transactions held for the purpose of short-term resale. (2) Transactions held for the purpose of making a profit from price fluctuations over a short period as well as fixing a profit from arbitrage activities. (3) Deals that have both aspects of (1) and (2) above. (4) Deals held for broking business or market making business. Trading business VAR used to calculate Market Risk Equivalent is based on the following: • VAR: historical simulation method; • confidence interval: one-tailed 99%; • holding period of one trading day; and • historical observation period of three years. iii. Cross-shareholdings For cross-shareholdings, we take the same market risk management approach as that for Banking and Trading businesses with the use of VAR and risk indices. The risk index for the cross-shareholdings (sensitivity of the portfolio to a 1% change in the equity index of TOPIX) is ¥31.7 billion ($282,851 thousand) and ¥29.7 billion for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively. iv. Risk management using VAR VAR is a commonly used market risk management technique with statistical assumptions to measure maximum possible loss in the market, which will be incurred to the holding portfolio in a certain period with some probability. It should be noted that in general VAR model has the following shortcomings: • VAR estimates could differ by assumptions of holding period, confidence interval level and approaches for the measurement. • VAR which is calculated based on historical data does not necessarily indicate an accurate future possible maximum loss. • VAR might underestimate the probability of extreme market movements when the market gets inactive as VAR assumes sales of holding portfolio and hedges in the market during the holding period for the calculation. • The use of a 99% confidence level neither takes account of, nor makes any statement about, any losses that might occur beyond this confidence level. The historical simulation method used as the measurement technique of VAR assumes that change in a market movement follows an empirical distribution. Therefore, the model might underestimate the risk under the circumstance that the market is likely to move extremely beyond the assumption. We check the validity of the market risk measurement made by VAR approach periodically by the back-test which compares VAR with actual profit and loss. In addition to VAR, we make a wide variety of management and controls such as risk indices monitoring, implementation of stress tests, loss limit monitoring in order to make strict risk management by capturing carefully all risks, including what VAR approach is not able to cover. We changed our VAR models from the variance co-variance model to the historical simulation method, which has been used since the beginning of the fiscal year ended March 31, 2017. (f) Liquidity Risk Management Our liquidity risk management structure is generally the same as the market risk management structure described above (“Item (d) Market Risk Management”). However, the head of the Financial Control & Accounting Group of Mizuho Financial Group is additionally responsible for matters relating to planning and running cash flow management operations, while the Financial Planning Division is responsible for monitoring and adjusting the cash 199 flow management situation and for planning and implementing cash flow management. Reports on the cash flow situation are submitted to the Risk Management Committee, the Balance Sheet Management Committee, the executive management committee and the President & CEO. We measure liquidity risk using indices pertaining to cash flow, such as limits on funds raised in the market. Limits on liquidity risk are discussed and coordinated by the Risk Management Committee, discussed further by the executive management committee and determined by the President & CEO. We have established classifications for the cash flow conditions affecting the Group, ranging from “normal” to “anxious” and “crisis,” and have established procedures for dealing with cases which are deemed to fall into the “anxious” or “crisis” categories. In addition, we have constructed a system under which we will be able to respond smoothly in the event of emergency situations that affect our funding by establishing action plans. (4) Supplementary Explanation of Matters Relating to Fair Value of Financial Instruments and Others Fair values of financial instruments include the values based on market prices, and the values deemed as market prices obtained by the reasonable estimate when the financial instruments do not have market prices. Since certain assumptions and others are adopted for calculating such values, they may differ when adopting different assumptions and others. 200 Financial Data of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 2. Matters Relating to Fair Value of Financial Instruments and Others The following are the consolidated balance sheet amounts, fair values and differences between them as of March 31, 2017 and 2016. Unlisted stocks and others, the fair values of which are extremely difficult to determine, are excluded from the table below (see (Note 2)). Millions of yen Consolidated Balance As of March 31, 2017 Sheet Amount Fair Value Difference (1) Cash and Due from Banks *1 ¥47,127,865 ¥47,127,865 ¥― (2) Call Loans and Bills Purchased *1 1,034,901 1,034,901 ― (3) Receivables under Resale Agreements 8,967,777 8,967,777 ― (4) Guarantee Deposits Paid under Securities Borrowing Transactions 3,350,051 3,350,051 ― (5) Other Debt Purchased *1 2,744,844 2,744,847 3 (6) Trading Assets Trading Securities 4,800,408 4,800,408 ― (7) Money Held in Trust *1 247,080 247,080 ― (8) Securities Bonds Held to Maturity 3,815,674 3,846,718 31,043 Other Securities 27,946,221 27,946,221 ― (9) Loans and Bills Discounted 78,337,793 Reserves for Possible Losses on Loans *1 (433,661) 77,904,132 78,916,087 1,011,955 Total Assets ¥177,938,958 ¥178,981,961 ¥1,043,002 (1) Deposits ¥120,045,217 ¥120,044,703 ¥(514) (2) Negotiable Certificates of Deposit 10,631,277 10,631,008 (268) (3) Call Money and Bills Sold 1,255,172 1,255,172 ― (4) Payables under Repurchase Agreements 17,969,753 17,969,753 ― (5) Guarantee Deposits Received under Securities Lending Transactions 1,679,300 1,679,300 ― (6) Trading Liabilities Securities Sold, Not yet Purchased 2,221,541 2,221,541 ― (7) Borrowed Money 6,307,230 6,281,775 (25,454) (8) Bonds and Notes 7,564,535 7,626,076 61,541 (9) Due to Trust Accounts 4,784,077 4,784,077 ― Total Liabilities ¥172,458,105 ¥172,493,409 ¥35,303 Derivative Transactions *2 Derivative Transactions not Qualifying for Hedge Accounting ¥[119,961] Derivative Transactions Qualifying for Hedge Accounting 302,350 Reserves for Derivative Transactions *1 (4,466) Total Derivative Transactions ¥177,922 ¥177,922 ¥― *1 General and specific reserves for possible losses on loans relevant to Loans and Bills Discounted and reserves for derivative transactions are excluded. Reserves for Cash and Due from Banks, Call Loans and Bills Purchased, Other Debt Purchased, Money Held in Trust and others are directly written off against the consolidated balance sheet amount due to immateriality. *2 Derivative Transactions recorded in Trading Assets, Trading Liabilities, Derivatives other than for Trading Assets, Derivatives other than for Trading Liabilities, and others are presented as a lump sum. Net claims and debts that arose from derivative transactions are presented on a net basis, and the item that is net debts in total is presented in brackets. 201 Millions of yen Consolidated Balance As of March 31, 2016 Sheet Amount Fair Value Difference (1) Cash and Due from Banks *1 ¥36,314,173 ¥36,314,173 ¥— (2) Call Loans and Bills Purchased *1 892,781 892,781 — (3) Receivables under Resale Agreements 7,805,798 7,805,798 — (4) Guarantee Deposits Paid under Securities Borrowing Transactions 3,407,390 3,407,390 — (5) Other Debt Purchased *1 2,979,413 2,979,419 6 (6) Trading Assets Trading Securities 5,467,948 5,467,948 — (7) Money Held in Trust *1 175,135 175,135 — (8) Securities Bonds Held to Maturity 4,817,574 4,873,209 55,634 Other Securities 34,083,510 34,083,510 — (9) Loans and Bills Discounted 73,708,884 Reserves for Possible Losses on Loans *1 (411,319) 73,297,564 74,465,870 1,168,305 Total Assets ¥169,241,291 ¥170,465,237 ¥1,223,946 (1) Deposits ¥105,629,071 ¥105,635,132 ¥6,061 (2) Negotiable Certificates of Deposit 11,827,533 11,827,239 (293) (3) Call Money and Bills Sold 2,521,008 2,521,008 — (4) Payables under Repurchase Agreements 16,833,346 16,833,346 — (5) Guarantee Deposits Received under Securities Lending Transactions 2,608,971 2,608,971 — (6) Trading Liabilities Securities Sold, Not yet Purchased 2,630,040 2,630,040 — (7) Borrowed Money 7,503,543 7,510,534 6,990 (8) Bonds and Notes 6,120,928 6,222,223 101,295 (9) Due to Trust Accounts 5,067,490 5,067,490 — Total Liabilities ¥160,741,933 ¥160,855,987 ¥114,053 Derivative Transactions *2 Derivative Transactions not Qualifying for Hedge Accounting ¥19,666 Derivative Transactions Qualifying for Hedge Accounting 481,660 Reserves for Derivative Transactions *1 (8,086) Total Derivative Transactions ¥493,240 ¥493,240 ¥— *1 General and specific reserves for possible losses on loans relevant to Loans and Bills Discounted and reserves for derivative transactions are excluded. Reserves for Cash and Due from Banks, Call Loans and Bills Purchased, Other Debt Purchased, Money Held in Trust and others are directly written off against the consolidated balance sheet amount due to immateriality. *2 Derivative Transactions recorded in Trading Assets, Trading Liabilities, Derivatives other than for Trading Assets, Derivatives other than for Trading Liabilities, and others are presented as a lump sum. Net claims and debts that arose from derivative transactions are presented on a net basis, and the item that is net debts in total is presented in brackets. 202 Financial Data of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements Thousands of U.S. dollars Consolidated Balance As of March 31, 2017 Sheet Amount Fair Value Difference (1) Cash and Due from Banks *1 $420,034,456 $420,034,456 $— (2) Call Loans and Bills Purchased *1 9,223,721 9,223,721 — (3) Receivables under Resale Agreements 79,926,715 79,926,715 — (4) Guarantee Deposits Paid under Securities Borrowing Transactions 29,857,860 29,857,860 — (5) Other Debt Purchased *1 24,463,855 24,463,884 29 (6) Trading Assets Trading Securities 42,784,393 42,784,393 — (7) Money Held in Trust *1 2,202,148 2,202,148 — (8) Securities Bonds Held to Maturity 34,007,790 34,284,475 276,685 Other Securities 249,075,056 249,075,056 — (9) Loans and Bills Discounted 698,197,804 Reserves for Possible Losses on Loans *1 (3,865,076) 694,332,728 703,351,941 9,019,213 Total Assets $1,585,908,722 $1,595,204,649 $9,295,927 (1) Deposits $1,069,921,724 $1,069,917,141 $(4,583) (2) Negotiable Certificates of Deposit 94,752,915 94,750,519 (2,396) (3) Call Money and Bills Sold 11,186,920 11,186,920 — (4) Payables under Repurchase Agreements 160,158,233 160,158,233 — (5) Guarantee Deposits Received under Securities Lending Transactions 14,967,025 14,967,025 — (6) Trading Liabilities Securities Sold, Not yet Purchased 19,799,836 19,799,836 — (7) Borrowed Money 56,214,177 55,987,307 (226,870) (8) Bonds and Notes 67,420,100 67,968,600 548,500 (9) Due to Trust Accounts 42,638,836 42,638,836 — Total Liabilities $1,537,059,766 $1,537,374,417 $314,651 Derivative Transactions *2 Derivative Transactions not Qualifying for Hedge Accounting $[1,069,176] Derivative Transactions Qualifying for Hedge Accounting 2,694,749 Reserves for Derivative Transactions *1 (39,812) Total Derivative Transactions $1,585,761 $1,585,761 $— *1 General and specific reserves for possible losses on loans relevant to Loans and Bills Discounted and reserves for derivative transactions are excluded. Reserves for Cash and Due from Banks, Call Loans and Bills Purchased, Other Debt Purchased, Money Held in Trust and others are directly written off against the consolidated balance sheet amount due to immateriality. *2 Derivative Transactions recorded in Trading Assets, Trading Liabilities, Derivatives other than for Trading Assets, Derivatives other than for Trading Liabilities, and others are presented as a lump sum. Net claims and debts that arose from derivative transactions are presented on a net basis, and the item that is net debts in total is presented in brackets. 203 (Note 1) Calculation method of fair value of financial instruments Assets (1) Cash and Due from Banks For Due from Banks which have no maturity, since fair values of these items approximate book values, we deem the book values to be fair values. For Due from Banks which have maturity, since contractual terms of these items are mainly short (i.e., within six months) and fair values of these items approximate book values, we deem the book values to be fair values. (2) Call Loans and Bills Purchased, (3) Receivables under Resale Agreements and (4) Guarantee Deposits Paid under Securities Borrowing Transactions Since contractual terms of these items are mainly short (i.e., within six months) and fair values of these items approximate book values, we deem the book values to be fair values. (5) Other Debt Purchased Fair values of Other Debt Purchased are based on the values deemed as market prices obtained by the reasonable estimate such as those obtained from brokers and financial information vendors. (6) Trading Assets Fair values of securities held for trading, such as bonds held for trading, are based on the market prices and others. (7) Money Held in Trust As to securities managed as trust assets in a directed money trust for separate investment with the management of securities as its primary purpose, fair values of these items are calculated using the method stated in (8). For other Money Held in Trust, since fair values of these items approximate book values, we deem the book values to be fair values. The notes to Money Held in Trust based on holding purpose are stated in “41.Fair Value of Securities and Money Held in Trust.” (8) Securities Fair values of stocks are based on the prices on securities exchanges, and those of bonds and others are based on the market prices, valuations obtained from brokers and information vendors and others. Fair values of investment trusts are based on the disclosed net asset value and others. Fair values of private placement bonds are calculated by discounting the total amount of principal and interest and others at interest rates based on the discount rate reflecting expected loss and various risk factors by categories according to the internal ratings and terms. Fair values of securitized products are based on valuations obtained from brokers and others, and reasonably calculated prices based on the reasonable estimates of our management. In deriving reasonably calculated prices based on the reasonable estimates of our management mentioned above, we used the discounted cash flow method. The price decision variables include default rates, recovery rates, pre-payment rates, and discount rates. Fair values of Floating-rate Japanese Government Bonds, according to our determination that current market prices may not reflect the fair value, are based on the reasonably calculated prices as book value. In deriving the reasonably calculated prices, we used the discount cash flow method as well as other methods. The price decision variables include the yield of 10-year Japanese Government Bonds and the volatilities of interest rate swap options for 10-year Japanese Government Bonds as underlying assets. The notes to Securities based on holding purpose are stated in “41.Fair Value of Securities and Money Held in Trust.” (9) Loans and Bills Discounted Fair values of Loans and Bills Discounted are calculated by the total amount of principal and interest and others at interest rates based on the discount rate reflecting expected loss and various risk factors by categories according to the types, internal ratings and terms of the Loans and Bills Discounted. In addition, as to claims against bankrupt obligors, substantially bankrupt obligors and intensive control obligors, since the estimated amount of bad debts is calculated based on the present value of the expected future cash flows or the estimated amounts that we would be able to collect from collateral and guarantees, fair values approximate the amount of Debentures and others minus the amount of 204 Financial Data of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements Reserves for Possible Losses on Loans in the consolidated balance sheet as of the consolidated balance sheet date and we thus deem such amount to be fair values. Of the Loans and Bills Discounted, for those without a fixed maturity due to loan characteristics such as limiting loans to within the value of pledged assets, we deem book values to be fair values since fair values are expected to approximate book values based on the estimated loan periods, interest rates and other conditions. Liabilities (1) Deposits (2) Negotiable Certificates of Deposit For demand deposits, we deem the payment amounts required on the consolidated balance sheet date (i.e., book values) to be fair values. In addition, fair values of fixed deposits and negotiable certificates of deposits are calculated by classifying them based on their terms and by discounting the future cash flows. The discount rates used in such calculations are the interest rates. Since fair values of those whose deposit terms are short (i.e., within six months) approximate book values, we mainly deem the book values to be fair values. (3) Call Money and Bills Sold, (4) Payables under Repurchase Agreements and (5) Guarantee Deposits Received under Securities Lending Transactions Since contractual terms of these financial instruments are mainly short (i.e., within six months) and fair values approximate book values, we deem the book values to be fair values. (6) Trading Liabilities Fair values of Securities Sold, Not yet Purchased in Trading Liabilities are based on the market prices and others. (7) Borrowed Money Fair values of Borrowed Money are calculated mainly by discounting the total amount of the principal and interest of such Borrowed Money classified by certain period at the interest rates considered to be applicable to similar loans. (8) Bonds and Notes Fair values of Bonds and Notes issued by MHFG and its consolidated subsidiaries are based on the market prices for Bonds and Notes which have market prices, and calculated by discounting the total amount of principal and interest by the interest rates considered to be applicable to similar Bonds and Notes for those which do not have market prices. (9) Due to Trust Accounts Due to Trust Accounts of consolidated trust banking subsidiaries is used for transactions in which consolidated trust banking subsidiaries manage fund entrusted to them in bank accounts of consolidated trust banking subsidiaries. As the purpose is considered to approximate demand deposit, we deem the book values to be fair values. Derivative Transactions Derivative transactions include interest rate-related transactions (futures, options, swaps and others), currency-related transactions (futures, options, swaps and others), bond-related transactions (futures, futures options and others), and are based on the prices on securities exchanges, discounted value of future cash flows, option pricing models and others. 205 (Note 2) Consolidated balance sheet amounts of financial instruments whose fair values are deemed to be extremely difficult to determine are indicated below, and are not included in “Assets (5) Other Debt Purchased”, “Assets (7) Money Held in Trust” and “Assets (8) Other Securities” in fair value information of financial instruments. Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars 2017 2016 2017 As of March 31, Consolidated Balance Consolidated Balance Consolidated Balance Category Sheet Amount Sheet Amount Sheet Amount (i) Unlisted Stocks *1 ¥190,320 ¥216,329 $1,696,263 (ii) Investments in Partnerships and others *2 86,291 69,076 769,086 (iii) Other 539 571 4,808 Total *3 ¥277,151 ¥285,977 $2,470,157 *1 We do not treat Unlisted Stocks as being subject to disclosure of fair values as there are no market prices and they are deemed extremely difficult to determine fair values. *2 Of the Investments in Partnerships and others, we do not treat those whose assets consist of unlisted stocks and other financial instruments that are deemed extremely difficult to determine fair values as being subject to disclosure of fair values. *3 During the fiscal years ended March 31, 2017 and 2016, the amounts of impairment (devaluation) were ¥4,823 million ($42,988 thousand) and ¥1,696 million, respectively, on a consolidated basis. (Note 3) Projected redemption amounts after the consolidated balance sheet date for financial assets and securities with maturities As of March 31, 2017 Millions of yen Types of Financial Instruments Within 1 year 1-3 years 3-5 years 5-7 years 7-10 years Over 10 years Due from Banks ¥46,346,741 ¥— ¥0 ¥— ¥— ¥— Call Loans and Bills Purchased 1,035,746 — — — — — Other Debt Purchased 2,380,855 182,930 30,802 6,496 1,199 141,504 Securities *1 7,822,181 7,948,593 1,854,038 2,333,771 2,923,163 3,230,787 Bonds Held to Maturity 1,100,000 1,480,000 — 380,000 100,000 708,832 Japanese Government Bonds 1,100,000 1,480,000 — 380,000 100,000 — Foreign Bonds — — — — — 708,832 Other Securities with Maturities 6,722,181 6,468,593 1,854,038 1,953,771 2,823,163 2,521,955 Japanese Government Bonds 3,144,670 5,030,500 487,100 75,230 1,463,100 — Japanese Local Government 41,305 44,606 56,456 77,059 58,478 548 Bonds Japanese Corporate Bonds 602,805 611,652 350,394 142,663 205,271 760,476 Foreign Bonds 2,901,555 742,863 934,986 1,602,879 1,071,954 1,716,058 Other 31,845 38,970 25,100 55,938 24,358 44,871 Loans and Bills Discounted *2 31,782,483 16,083,902 12,194,119 5,139,898 4,706,564 7,256,890 Total ¥89,368,008 ¥24,215,426 ¥14,078,960 ¥7,480,166 ¥7,630,927 ¥10,629,182 206 Financial Data of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements As of March 31, 2016 Millions of yen Types of Financial Instruments Within 1 year 1-3 years 3-5 years 5-7 years 7-10 years Over 10 years Due from Banks ¥35,603,859 ¥— ¥— ¥— ¥— ¥— Call Loans and Bills Purchased 893,545 — — — — — Other Debt Purchased 2,627,383 126,890 21,318 7,104 1,895 191,806 Securities *1 6,300,043 13,500,981 4,946,401 1,948,469 3,174,295 3,298,130 Bonds Held to Maturity 700,000 1,940,000 640,000 100,000 380,000 989,351 Japanese Government Bonds 700,000 1,940,000 640,000 100,000 380,000 — Foreign Bonds — — — — — 989,351 Other Securities with Maturities 5,600,043 11,560,981 4,306,401 1,848,469 2,794,295 2,308,779 Japanese Government Bonds 2,430,501 9,498,300 2,169,900 60,000 1,454,430 — Japanese Local Government 20,013 73,217 22,057 44,120 73,799 684 Bonds Japanese Corporate Bonds 443,668 891,957 424,692 117,100 128,379 810,697 Foreign Bonds 2,651,489 1,032,778 1,617,235 1,605,551 1,124,338 1,460,874 Other 54,371 64,727 72,515 21,698 13,346 36,522 Loans and Bills Discounted *2 26,611,343 16,554,621 12,185,896 5,201,721 4,585,717 7,452,739 Total ¥72,036,174 ¥30,182,493 ¥17,153,615 ¥7,157,296 ¥7,761,908 ¥10,942,676 As of March 31, 2017 Thousands of U.S. dollars Types of Financial Instruments Within 1 year 1-3 years 3-5 years 5-7 years 7-10 years Over 10 years Due from Banks $413,072,563 $— $1 $— $— $— Call Loans and Bills Purchased 9,231,249 — — — — — Other Debt Purchased 21,219,747 1,630,396 274,530 57,905 10,690 1,261,182 Securities *1 69,716,413 70,843,079 16,524,408 20,800,102 26,053,148 28,794,901 Bonds Held to Maturity 9,803,922 13,190,731 — 3,386,809 891,265 6,317,583 Japanese Government Bonds 9,803,922 13,190,731 — 3,386,809 891,265 — Foreign Bonds — — — — — 6,317,583 Other Securities with Maturities 59,912,491 57,652,348 16,524,408 17,413,293 25,161,883 22,477,318 Japanese Government Bonds 28,027,362 44,835,116 4,341,355 670,499 13,040,107 — Japanese Local Government 368,139 397,565 503,180 686,804 521,200 4,891 Bonds Japanese Corporate Bonds 5,372,597 5,451,453 3,122,947 1,271,514 1,829,518 6,777,864 Foreign Bonds 25,860,564 6,620,886 8,333,217 14,285,913 9,553,959 15,294,637 Other 283,829 347,328 223,709 498,563 217,099 399,926 Loans and Bills Discounted *2 283,266,339 143,350,287 108,681,992 45,810,143 41,947,991 64,678,165 Total $796,506,311 $215,823,762 $125,480,931 $66,668,150 $68,011,829 $94,734,248 *1 Securities include those of which fair values are extremely difficult to determine. *2 Amounts do not include loans to bankrupt, substantially bankrupt, and intensive control obligors and other loans, of which redemption amounts cannot be projected, of ¥461,985 million ($4,117,515 thousand) and ¥420,222 million, and loans with no maturities of ¥711,950 million ($6,345,372 thousand) and ¥696,621 million as of March 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively. 207 (Note 4) Projected repayment amounts after the consolidated balance sheet date for Bonds and Notes, Borrowed Money, and other interest-bearing liabilities As of March 31, 2017 Millions of yen Types of Financial Instruments Within 1 year 1-3 years 3-5 years 5-7 years 7-10 years Over 10 years Deposits *1 ¥115,871,830 ¥3,334,187 ¥696,662 ¥73,125 ¥60,455 ¥8,955 Negotiable Certificates of Deposit 10,421,618 150,627 60,067 — — — Call Money and Bills Sold 1,255,172 — — — — — Borrowed Money *2 604,614 3,095,130 1,542,031 338,626 377,791 305,037 Short-term Bonds 226,348 — — — — — Bonds and Notes *2 1,414,830 1,486,069 1,331,397 564,022 1,400,953 588,868 Due to Trust Accounts 4,784,077 — — — — — Total ¥134,578,491 ¥8,066,014 ¥3,630,158 ¥975,775 ¥1,839,199 ¥902,861 As of March 31, 2016 Millions of yen Types of Financial Instruments Within 1 year 1-3 years 3-5 years 5-7 years 7-10 years Over 10 years Deposits *1 ¥101,245,149 ¥3,457,412 ¥778,440 ¥73,961 ¥74,107 ¥— Negotiable Certificates of Deposit 11,691,885 76,083 60,368 — — — Call Money and Bills Sold 2,521,008 — — — — — Borrowed Money *2 1,381,168 4,279,030 934,762 206,074 309,491 329,016 Short-term Bonds 648,381 — — — — — Bonds and Notes *2 813,589 1,914,157 1,079,995 518,466 768,045 693,381 Due to Trust Accounts 5,067,490 — — — — — Total ¥123,368,674 ¥9,726,684 ¥2,853,566 ¥798,502 ¥1,151,643 ¥1,022,398 As of March 31, 2017 Thousands of U.S. dollars Types of Financial Instruments Within 1 year 1-3 years 3-5 years 5-7 years 7-10 years Over 10 years Deposits *1 $1,032,725,761 $29,716,470 $6,209,114 $651,745 $538,816 $79,818 Negotiable Certificates of Deposit 92,884,298 1,342,487 535,357 — — — Call Money and Bills Sold 11,186,920 — — — — — Borrowed Money *2 5,388,717 27,585,829 13,743,596 3,018,062 3,367,125 2,718,691 Short-term Bonds 2,017,362 — — — — — Bonds and Notes *2 12,609,899 13,244,830 11,866,291 5,026,942 12,486,214 5,248,386 Due to Trust Accounts 42,638,836 — — — — — Total $1,199,451,793 $71,889,616 $32,354,358 $8,696,749 $16,392,155 $8,046,895 *1 Demand deposits are included in “Within 1 year.” *2 Amounts do not include Borrowed Money and Bonds and Notes with no maturities of ¥44,000 million ($392,157 thousand) and ¥779,000 million ($6,942,959 thousand), and ¥64,000 million and ¥334,000 million as of March 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively. 208 Financial Data of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 41. Fair Value of Securities and Money Held in Trust The following tables contain information relating to “Securities,” Trading Securities, Short-term Bonds, certain other items in “Trading Assets,” Negotiable Certificates of Deposit in “Cash and Due from Banks,” certain items in “Other Debt Purchased,” certain items in “Other Assets,” and “Money Held in Trust.” Millions of yen Consolidated Balance As of March 31, 2017 Sheet Amount Fair value Difference Bonds Held-to-Maturity (Total) ¥3,815,674 ¥3,846,718 ¥31,043 Bonds Whose Fair Values Exceed the Consolidated Balance Sheet Amount Bonds Held-to-Maturity: ¥3,083,991 ¥3,121,303 ¥37,312 Japanese Government Bonds 3,059,975 3,097,144 37,168 Foreign Bonds 24,015 24,159 144 Bonds Whose Fair Values Do Not Exceed the Consolidated Balance Sheet Amount Bonds Held-to-Maturity: ¥731,682 ¥725,414 ¥(6,268) Japanese Government Bonds — — — Foreign Bonds 731,682 725,414 (6,268) Millions of yen Consolidated Balance As of March 31, 2016 Sheet Amount Fair value Difference Bonds Held-to-Maturity (Total) ¥4,817,574 ¥4,873,209 ¥55,634 Bonds Whose Fair Values Exceed the Consolidated Balance Sheet Amount Bonds Held-to-Maturity: ¥4,402,821 ¥4,463,834 ¥61,012 Japanese Government Bonds 3,760,032 3,816,652 56,619 Foreign Bonds 642,788 647,182 4,393 Bonds Whose Fair Values Do Not Exceed the Consolidated Balance Sheet Amount Bonds Held-to-Maturity: ¥414,753 ¥409,375 ¥(5,378) Japanese Government Bonds — — — Foreign Bonds 414,753 409,375 (5,378) Thousands of U.S. dollars Consolidated Balance As of March 31, 2017 Sheet Amount Fair value Difference Bonds Held-to-Maturity (Total) $34,007,790 $34,284,475 $276,685 Bonds Whose Fair Values Exceed the Consolidated Balance Sheet Amount Bonds Held-to-Maturity: $27,486,554 $27,819,108 $332,554 Japanese Government Bonds 27,272,510 27,603,779 331,269 Foreign Bonds 214,044 215,329 1,285 Bonds Whose Fair Values Do Not Exceed the Consolidated Balance Sheet Amount Bonds Held-to-Maturity: $6,521,236 $6,465,367 $(55,869) Japanese Government Bonds — — — Foreign Bonds 6,521,236 6,465,367 (55,869) 209 Millions of yen Consolidated Balance As of March 31, 2017 Sheet Amount Acquisition Cost Difference Other Securities*1 (Total) ¥28,480,731 ¥26,661,507 ¥1,819,224 Other Securities Whose Consolidated Balance Sheet Amount Exceeds Acquisition Cost Other Securities: ¥15,314,224 ¥13,210,435 ¥2,103,788 Japanese Stocks 3,363,211 1,464,923 1,898,288 Japanese Bonds: 8,408,911 8,353,050 55,861 Japanese Government Bonds 6,499,349 6,474,096 25,253 Japanese Local Government Bonds 225,771 220,930 4,840 Short-term Bonds — — — Japanese Corporate Bonds 1,683,790 1,658,023 25,767 Other: 3,542,100 3,392,462 149,638 Foreign Bonds 2,672,850 2,659,805 13,044 Other Debt Purchased 84,802 83,047 1,754 Other 784,447 649,608 134,838 Other Securities Whose Consolidated Balance Sheet Amount Does Not Exceed Acquisition Cost Other Securities: ¥13,166,507 ¥13,451,071 ¥(284,563) Japanese Stocks 178,834 222,664 (43,830) Japanese Bonds: 4,836,243 4,870,924 (34,680) Japanese Government Bonds 3,764,979 3,781,517 (16,537) Japanese Local Government Bonds 58,700 58,932 (232) Short-term Bonds 99 99 — Japanese Corporate Bonds 1,012,463 1,030,373 (17,910) Other: 8,151,429 8,357,482 (206,053) Foreign Bonds 6,282,585 6,439,935 (157,349) Other Debt Purchased 152,978 153,371 (393) Other 1,715,864 1,764,175 (48,310) Money Held in Trust Other Money Held in Trust ¥3,286 ¥3,286 ¥— 210 Financial Data of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements Millions of yen Consolidated Balance As of March 31, 2016 Sheet Amount Acquisition Cost Difference Other Securities*1 (Total) ¥34,675,695 ¥32,793,827 ¥1,881,867*2 Other Securities Whose Consolidated Balance Sheet Amount Exceeds Acquisition Cost Other Securities: ¥28,764,163 ¥26,704,510 ¥2,059,653 Japanese Stocks 3,119,477 1,437,513 1,681,963 Japanese Bonds: 18,155,225 18,007,215 148,010 Japanese Government Bonds 15,649,388 15,553,141 96,247 Japanese Local Government Bonds 237,247 231,149 6,097 Short-term Bonds — — — Japanese Corporate Bonds 2,268,589 2,222,924 45,665 Other: 7,489,460 7,259,780 229,679 Foreign Bonds 6,775,953 6,708,016 67,936 Other Debt Purchased 143,593 139,690 3,903 Other 569,913 412,074 157,839 Other Securities Whose Consolidated Balance Sheet Amount Does Not Exceed Acquisition Cost Other Securities: ¥5,911,531 ¥6,089,317 ¥(177,785) Japanese Stocks 338,149 409,668 (71,518) Japanese Bonds: 719,259 730,762 (11,502) Japanese Government Bonds 116,484 116,890 (406) Japanese Local Government Bonds 3,433 3,436 (3) Short-term Bonds 99 99 — Japanese Corporate Bonds 599,241 610,334 (11,093) Other: 4,854,122 4,948,886 (94,764) Foreign Bonds 2,943,644 2,970,512 (26,867) Other Debt Purchased 205,326 205,917 (591) Other 1,705,151 1,772,456 (67,305) Money Held in Trust Other Money Held in Trust ¥2,578 ¥2,578 ¥— 211 Thousands of U.S. dollars Consolidated Balance As of March 31, 2017 Sheet Amount Acquisition Cost Difference Other Securities*1 (Total) $253,838,965 $237,624,843 $16,214,122 Other Securities Whose Consolidated Balance Sheet Amount Exceeds Acquisition Cost Other Securities: $136,490,411 $117,740,070 $18,750,341 Japanese Stocks 29,975,146 13,056,355 16,918,791 Japanese Bonds: 74,945,738 74,447,863 497,875 Japanese Government Bonds 57,926,468 57,701,391 225,077 Japanese Local Government Bonds 2,012,226 1,969,081 43,145 Short-term Bonds — — — Japanese Corporate Bonds 15,007,044 14,777,391 229,653 Other: 31,569,527 30,235,852 1,333,675 Foreign Bonds 23,822,199 23,705,935 116,264 Other Debt Purchased 755,819 740,177 15,642 Other 6,991,509 5,789,740 1,201,769 Other Securities Whose Consolidated Balance Sheet Amount Does Not Exceed Acquisition Cost Other Securities: $117,348,554 $119,884,773 $(2,536,219) Japanese Stocks 1,593,892 1,984,535 (390,643) Japanese Bonds: 43,103,778 43,412,871 (309,093) Japanese Government Bonds 33,555,971 33,703,362 (147,391) Japanese Local Government Bonds 523,177 525,250 (2,073) Short-term Bonds 891 891 — Japanese Corporate Bonds 9,023,739 9,183,368 (159,629) Other: 72,650,884 74,487,367 (1,836,483) Foreign Bonds 55,994,527 57,396,932 (1,402,405) Other Debt Purchased 1,363,444 1,366,949 (3,505) Other 15,292,913 15,723,486 (430,573) Money Held in Trust Other Money Held in Trust $29,290 $29,290 $— *1 The fair value of Japanese stocks is determined based on the average quoted market price over the month preceding the consolidated balance sheet date. The fair value of securities other than Japanese stocks is determined at the quoted market price if available, or other reasonable value at the consolidated balance sheet date. *2 Unrealized Gains (Losses) or Difference include gains of ¥34,372 million ($306,349 thousand) and ¥26,715 million which were recognized in the statements of income for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively, by applying the fair-value hedge method. Note: A summary of Trading Securities and Money Held in Trust for investment purposes and related unrealized gains and losses recognized in the statement of income are as follows: * Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars 2017 2016 2017 Unrealized Unrealized Unrealized As of March 31, gains (losses) gains (losses) gains (losses) Trading Securities ¥(11,574) ¥640 $(103,158) Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars 2017 2016 2017 Unrealized Unrealized Unrealized As of March 31, Fair value gains (losses) Fair value gains (losses) Fair value gains (losses) Money Held in Trust for Investment ¥244,297 ¥787 ¥173,060 ¥25 $2,177,339 $7,021 * Fair values of trading securities as of March 31, 2017 and 2016 are described in “40. Financial Instruments.” 212 Financial Data of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements Other Securities Sold during the Fiscal Year Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars Total amount Total amount Total amount Total amount For the Fiscal Year ended March 31, Proceeds of gains of losses Proceeds of gains of losses 2017 from sales on sales on sales from sales on sales on sales Stocks ¥ 402,281 ¥214,078 ¥ 3,879 $ 3,585,397 $1,908,008 $ 34,576 Bonds 29,061,379 64,899 9,713 259,014,078 578,428 86,571 Japanese Government Bonds 28,478,921 61,450 9,297 253,822,829 547,684 82,866 Japanese Local 35,032 2 16 312,232 20 151 Government Bonds Japanese Corporate Bonds 547,425 3,447 398 4,879,017 30,724 3,554 Other 12,416,967 164,900 67,316 110,668,156 1,469,698 599,966 Total ¥41,880,628 ¥443,878 ¥80,908 $373,267,631 $3,956,134 $721,113 Millions of yen Total amount Total amount For the Fiscal Year ended March 31, Proceeds of gains of losses 2016 from sales on sales on sales Stocks ¥ 256,702 ¥140,410 ¥1,906 Bonds 17,668,992 59,795 1,284 Japanese Government Bonds 17,053,780 55,269 1,088 Japanese Local 53,526 0 40 Government Bonds Japanese Corporate Bonds 561,685 4,526 155 Other 18,236,320 227,595 83,388 Total ¥36,162,015 ¥427,802 ¥86,578 Note: The above table contains Other Securities that are deemed extremely difficult to determine fair values. Unrealized Gains/Losses on Other Securities Unrealized Gains/Losses on Other Securities as of March 31, 2017 and 2016 are as follows: Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars As of March 31, 2017 2016 2017 Difference between Acquisition Cost and Fair Value*1 ¥1,784,855 ¥1,855,281 $15,907,804 Other Securities*2 1,784,855 1,855,281 15,907,804 Deferred Tax Liabilities (470,704) (508,389) (4,195,231) Difference between Acquisition Cost and Fair Value, net of Taxes 1,314,150 1,346,892 11,712,573 Amount Corresponding to Non-controlling Interests 29,657 56,046 264,331 Amount Corresponding to Net Unrealized Gains (Losses) on Other Securities Owned by Affiliated Companies, which is 5,492 5,193 48,953 attributable to MHFG Net Unrealized Gains (Losses) on Other Securities ¥1,289,985 ¥1,296,039 $11,497,195 *1 The difference between acquisition cost and fair value excludes ¥(34,372) million ($(306,349) thousand) and ¥(26,715) million which were recognized in the statements of income for fiscal years ended March 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively, by applying the fair-value hedge method. *2 Other Securities includes translation differences regarding securities which do not have readily determinable fair value. 213 42. Derivatives Information The fair value of derivatives not qualifying for hedge accounting and derivatives qualifying for hedge accounting as of March 31, 2017 and 2016 is shown in the tables below. In the following tables: (i) Contract value represents notional amounts for swap transactions and contract amounts for other transactions. Contract value amounts do not indicate the market risk related to derivative transactions. (ii) Fair values of listed contracts are based on the closing prices of the Osaka Exchange, the Tokyo Financial Exchange, the New York Mercantile Exchange and others. Fair values of over-the-counter contracts and intercompany or internal transactions are based on the discounted value of future cash flows, option pricing models and others. (1) Derivative Transactions not Qualifying for Hedge Accounting Transactions are marked to market, and changes in unrealized gains (losses) are included in the consolidated statement of income. (a) Interest Rate-Related Transactions Millions of yen Contract value Unrealized As of March 31, 2017 Total Over one year Fair value gains (losses) Listed: Futures: Sold ¥9,407,885 ¥3,325,791 ¥(10,782) ¥(10,782) Bought 9,337,119 3,323,117 9,161 9,161 Options: Sold 320,424 53,662 (478) 38 Bought 885,812 99,250 1,254 (217) Over-the-Counter: FRAs: Sold 16,705,098 287,114 (4,529) (4,529) Bought 14,123,480 276,538 (1,088) (1,088) Swaps: Receive Fixed / Pay Float 403,042,305 307,787,439 5,642,796 5,642,796 Receive Float / Pay Fixed 394,333,968 304,717,370 (5,583,337) (5,583,337) Receive Float / Pay Float 80,075,291 61,293,377 35,829 35,829 Receive Fixed / Pay Fixed 702,877 579,466 14,605 14,605 Options: Sold 8,117,121 5,719,369 (104,505) (104,505) Bought 5,642,995 3,661,695 4,344 4,344 Inter-company or Internal Transactions: Swaps: Receive Fixed / Pay Float 4,430,985 4,144,609 (906) (906) Receive Float / Pay Fixed 9,442,652 8,278,293 33,285 33,285 Receive Float / Pay Float 707 707 0 0 Total / / ¥35,649 ¥34,694 214 Financial Data of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements Millions of yen Contract value Unrealized As of March 31, 2016 Total Over one year Fair value gains (losses) Listed: Futures: Sold ¥15,846,181 ¥5,404,223 ¥(101,255) ¥(101,255) Bought 15,329,146 5,440,259 93,252 93,252 Options: Sold 266,618 35,363 (684) 221 Bought 659,242 140,726 636 (413) Over-the-Counter: FRAs: Sold 16,516,064 2,486,927 (7,427) (7,427) Bought 8,747,790 — 321 321 Swaps: Receive Fixed / Pay Float 450,204,501 348,348,352 10,989,099 10,989,099 Receive Float / Pay Fixed 445,186,117 338,980,895 (10,832,435) (10,832,435) Receive Float / Pay Float 77,852,071 57,764,275 40,572 40,572 Receive Fixed / Pay Fixed 769,835 740,715 22,623 22,623 Options: Sold 9,510,832 6,160,305 (157,337) (157,337) Bought 6,157,532 4,019,060 62,094 62,094 Inter-company or Internal Transactions: Swaps: Receive Fixed / Pay Float 4,188,380 4,012,121 77,460 77,460 Receive Float / Pay Fixed 11,761,887 10,348,763 (209,539) (209,539) Receive Float / Pay Float — — — — Total / / ¥(22,617) ¥(22,760) 215 Thousands of U.S. dollars Contract value Unrealized As of March 31, 2017 Total Over one year Fair value gains (losses) Listed: Futures: Sold $83,849,247 $29,641,634 $(96,099) $(96,099) Bought 83,218,534 29,617,800 81,651 81,651 Options: Sold 2,855,830 478,277 (4,265) 346 Bought 7,894,940 884,588 11,178 (1,942) Over-the-Counter: FRAs: Sold 148,886,794 2,558,954 (40,369) (40,369) Bought 125,877,727 2,464,692 (9,703) (9,703) Swaps: Receive Fixed / Pay Float 3,592,177,409 2,743,203,560 50,292,306 50,292,306 Receive Float / Pay Fixed 3,514,562,998 2,715,841,089 (49,762,369) (49,762,369) Receive Float / Pay Float 713,683,528 546,286,790 319,339 319,339 Receive Fixed / Pay Fixed 6,264,505 5,164,585 130,176 130,176 Options: Sold 72,345,111 50,974,773 (931,421) (931,421) Bought 50,294,073 32,635,434 38,722 38,722 Inter-company or Internal Transactions: Swaps: Receive Fixed / Pay Float 39,491,849 36,939,477 (8,077) (8,077) Receive Float / Pay Fixed 84,159,110 73,781,579 296,659 296,659 Receive Float / Pay Float 6,305 6,305 5 5 Total / / $317,733 $309,224 216 Financial Data of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (b) Currency-Related Transactions Millions of yen Contract value Unrealized As of March 31, 2017 Total Over one year Fair value gains (losses) Listed: Futures: Sold ¥18,881 ¥352 ¥— ¥— Bought 75,501 51,302 — — Over-the-Counter: Swaps 45,250,084 30,758,244 54,489 99,071 Forwards: Sold 74,925,435 3,645,808 (92,135) (92,135) Bought 37,970,407 1,352,535 203,068 203,068 Options: Sold 2,842,595 1,182,247 (89,735) (9,821) Bought 2,610,743 1,034,441 67,939 (12,408) Inter-company or Internal Transactions: Swaps 3,441,048 2,403,067 (228,425) 6,386 Forwards: Bought 160,189 — (2,328) (2,328) Total / / ¥(87,128) ¥191,831 Millions of yen Contract value Unrealized As of March 31, 2016 Total Over one year Fair value gains (losses) Listed: Futures: Sold ¥20,867 ¥120 ¥(61) ¥(61) Bought 73,227 36,677 41 41 Over-the-Counter: Swaps 42,725,365 27,770,539 81,081 67,031 Forwards: Sold 61,814,420 3,398,506 516,292 516,292 Bought 26,644,388 1,077,489 (360,548) (360,548) Options: Sold 3,159,248 1,138,887 (148,426) (47,789) Bought 2,857,596 938,677 100,894 (2,122) Inter-company or Internal Transactions: Swaps 4,031,159 3,332,541 (183,406) (17,723) Forwards: Bought 149,337 — 869 869 Total / / ¥6,736 ¥155,987 217 Thousands of U.S. dollars Contract value Unrealized As of March 31, 2017 Total Over one year Fair value gains (losses) Listed: Futures: Sold $168,284 $3,139 $— $— Bought 672,921 457,239 — — Over-the-Counter: Swaps 403,298,435 274,137,651 485,650 882,992 Forwards: Sold 667,784,633 32,493,838 (821,173) (821,173) Bought 338,417,177 12,054,682 1,809,876 1,809,876 Options: Sold 25,335,079 10,536,966 (799,782) (87,539) Bought 23,268,658 9,219,621 605,522 (110,596) Inter-company or Internal Transactions: Swaps 30,668,878 21,417,713 (2,035,879) 56,922 Forwards: Bought 1,427,713 — (20,756) (20,756) Total / / $(776,542) $1,709,726 (c) Stock-Related Transactions Millions of yen Contract value Unrealized As of March 31, 2017 Total Over one year Fair value gains (losses) Listed: Index Futures: Sold ¥701,220 ¥14,450 ¥2,230 ¥2,230 Bought 143,890 — (673) (673) Index Futures Options: Sold 1,033,746 178,675 (125,078) (5,077) Bought 1,018,815 101,900 27,430 10 Over-the-Counter: Equity Linked Swaps 191,842 178,713 11,513 11,513 Options: Sold 687,884 587,391 (83,546) (77,815) Bought 231,697 177,712 77,950 67,701 Other: Sold — — — — Bought 414,495 377,583 24,548 24,548 Total / / ¥(65,623) ¥22,438 218 Financial Data of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements Millions of yen Contract value Unrealized As of March 31, 2016 Total Over one year Fair value gains (losses) Listed: Index Futures: Sold ¥339,684 ¥19,677 ¥(133) ¥(133) Bought 34,398 — (206) (206) Index Futures Options: Sold 796,933 238,770 (56,915) (6,219) Bought 743,949 153,025 44,429 6,289 Over-the-Counter: Equity Linked Swaps 157,043 128,828 28,065 28,065 Options: Sold 605,923 547,166 (76,011) (65,717) Bought 245,280 208,203 71,052 59,419 Other: Sold 2,061 — (87) (87) Bought 329,081 312,695 13,337 13,337 Total / / ¥23,530 ¥34,745 Thousands of U.S. dollars Contract value Unrealized As of March 31, 2017 Total Over one year Fair value gains (losses) Listed: Index Futures: Sold $6,249,741 $128,790 $19,881 $19,881 Bought 1,282,443 — (6,000) (6,000) Index Futures Options: Sold 9,213,428 1,592,469 (1,114,781) (45,255) Bought 9,080,354 908,199 244,483 90 Over-the-Counter: Equity Linked Swaps 1,709,827 1,592,816 102,618 102,618 Options: Sold 6,130,879 5,235,214 (744,623) (693,544) Bought 2,065,039 1,583,894 694,745 603,400 Other: Sold — — — — Bought 3,694,252 3,365,269 218,794 218,794 Total / / $(584,883) $199,984 219 (d) Bond-Related Transactions Millions of yen 2017 2016 Contract value Contract value Over Fair Unrealized Over Fair Unrealized As of March 31, Total one year value gains (losses) Total one year value gains (losses) Listed: Futures: Sold ¥584,499 ¥— ¥(4,497) ¥(4,497) ¥559,493 ¥— ¥(2,364) ¥(2,364) Bought 594,999 — 2,508 2,508 661,309 — 3,295 3,295 Futures Options: Sold 543,534 — (86) 16 87,526 — (100) 9 Bought 143,612 — 150 1 235,566 — 327 (130) Over-the-Counter: Options: Sold 745,840 420,735 (40,317) (38,567) 451,639 338,264 (23,808) (23,391) Bought 745,840 420,735 40,136 38,777 451,639 338,264 23,737 23,314 Total / / ¥(2,105) ¥(1,759) / / ¥1,086 ¥732 Thousands of U.S. dollars 2017 Contract value Over Fair Unrealized As of March 31, Total One year value gains (losses) Listed: Futures: Sold $5,209,441 $— $(40,082) $(40,082) Bought 5,303,026 — 22,361 22,361 Futures Options: Sold 4,844,333 — (769) 151 Bought 1,279,967 — 1,346 13 Over-the-Counter: Options: Sold 6,647,419 3,749,867 (359,338) (343,743) Bought 6,647,419 3,749,867 357,719 345,614 Total / / $(18,763) $(15,686) 220 Financial Data of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (e) Commodity-Related Transactions Millions of yen 2017 2016 Contract value Contract value Over Fair Unrealized Over Fair Unrealized As of March 31, Total one year value gains (losses) Total one year value gains (losses) Listed: Futures: Sold ¥22,236 ¥7,206 ¥358 ¥358 ¥2,301 ¥714 ¥(37) ¥(37) Bought 32,199 13,568 (548) (548) 3,890 1,544 18 18 Over-the-Counter: Swaps 5,296 — 1 1 230 — 0 0 Options: Sold 158,283 63,801 3,136 3,136 162,916 96,045 30,467 30,467 Bought 141,703 49,791 (949) (949) 157,433 83,472 (26,324) (26,324) Total / / ¥1,997 ¥1,997 / / ¥4,124 ¥4,124 Thousands of U.S. dollars 2017 Contract value Over Fair Unrealized As of March 31, Total one year value gains (losses) Listed: Futures: Sold $198,185 $64,227 $3,197 $3,197 Bought 286,986 120,930 (4,888) (4,888) Over-the-Counter: Swaps 47,210 — 9 9 Options: Sold 1,410,727 568,639 27,951 27,951 Bought 1,262,954 443,777 (8,464) (8,464) Total / / $17,805 $17,805 Note: Commodities include oil, copper, aluminum and others. 221 (f) Credit Derivative Transactions Millions of yen Contract value Unrealized As of March 31, 2017 Total Over one year Fair value gains (losses) Over-the-Counter: Credit Derivatives: Sold ¥1,845,011 ¥1,337,735 ¥22,061 ¥22,061 Bought 1,995,013 1,435,409 (24,813) (24,813) Total / / ¥(2,751) ¥(2,751) Millions of yen Contract value Unrealized As of March 31, 2016 Total Over one year Fair value gains (losses) Over-the-Counter: Credit Derivatives: Sold ¥2,366,223 ¥1,828,065 ¥15,125 ¥15,125 Bought 2,591,862 2,006,634 (8,319) (8,319) Total / / ¥6,805 ¥6,805 Thousands of U.S. dollars Contract value Unrealized As of March 31, 2017 Total Over one year Fair value gains (losses) Over-the-Counter: Credit Derivatives: Sold $16,443,952 $11,922,779 $196,624 $196,624 Bought 17,780,867 12,793,310 (221,150) (221,150) Total / / $(24,526) $(24,526) Note: “Sold” and “Bought” indicate assumption and cession of credit risk, respectively. 222 Financial Data of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (2) Derivative Transactions Qualifying for Hedge Accounting (a) Interest Rate-Related Transactions Millions of yen Primary Contract value As of March 31, 2017 hedged items Total Over one year Fair value Primary Method : Loans, deposits, bonds Swaps: and notes, borrowings and Receive Fixed / Pay Float others ¥25,079,445 ¥22,542,261 ¥93,716 Receive Float / Pay Fixed 6,850,334 5,939,596 (23,638) Fair Value Hedge Method : Other securities and others Swaps: Receive Float / Pay Fixed 439,177 437,488 (472) Receive Float / Pay Float 591 92 (105) Exceptional Accrual Method : Loans and others Swaps: Note 2 Receive Fixed / Pay Float — — Receive Float / Pay Fixed 66,882 62,314 Total / / ¥69,499 Millions of yen Primary Contract value As of March 31, 2016 hedged items Total Over one year Fair value Primary Method : Loans, deposits, bonds Swaps: and notes, borrowings and Receive Fixed / Pay Float others ¥27,546,603 ¥24,527,041 ¥477,925 Receive Float / Pay Fixed 8,262,649 7,771,614 (162,603) Fair Value Hedge Method : Other securities and others Swaps: Receive Float / Pay Fixed 60,383 23,032 222 Receive Float / Pay Float 1,056 515 (143) Exceptional Accrual Method : Loans, borrowings and Swaps: others Note 2 Receive Fixed / Pay Float 10,000 — Receive Float / Pay Fixed 60,890 56,087 Total / / ¥315,400 223 Thousands of U.S. dollars Primary Contract value As of March 31, 2017 hedged items Total Over one year Fair value Primary Method : Loans, deposits, bonds Swaps: and notes, borrowings and Receive Fixed / Pay Float others $223,524,467 $200,911,425 $835,259 Receive Float / Pay Fixed 61,054,671 52,937,581 (210,686) Fair Value Hedge Method : Other securities and others Swaps: Receive Float / Pay Fixed 3,914,240 3,899,187 (4,211) Receive Float / Pay Float 5,276 824 (938) Exceptional Accrual Method : Loans and others Swaps: Note 2 Receive Fixed / Pay Float — — Receive Float / Pay Fixed 596,096 555,391 Total / / $619,424 Notes: 1. Primarily the deferred method is applied under “Accounting and Auditing Treatment Relating to Adoption of Accounting Standards for Financial Instruments for Banks” (JICPA Industry Audit Committee Report No. 24, February 13, 2002). 2. Since derivative transactions qualifying for the exceptional accrual method are treated as a unit of loans and borrowings, hedged items, those fair values are included in fair values of such loans and borrowings in “40. Financial Instruments.” 224 Financial Data of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (b) Currency-Related Transactions Millions of yen Primary Contract value As of March 31, 2017 hedged items Total Over one year Fair value Primary Method : Loans, deposits, borrowings, Swaps parent company’s interest of ¥7,179,955 ¥2,939,738 ¥235,186 Forwards: subsidiaries’ net assets and Sold others 276,436 — 2,273 Allocation Method : Forwards: — Sold — — — Total / / ¥237,460 Millions of yen Primary Contract value As of March 31, 2016 hedged items Total Over one year Fair value Primary Method : Loans, deposits, borrowings, Swaps parent company’s interest of ¥8,181,167 ¥3,746,111 ¥144,898 Forwards: subsidiaries’ net assets and Sold others 270,432 — 3,189 Allocation Method : Short-term bonds Forwards: Note 2. Sold 2,046 — Total / / ¥148,088 Thousands of U.S. dollars Primary Contract value As of March 31, 2017 hedged items Total Over one year Fair value Primary Method : Loans, deposits, borrowings, Swaps parent company’s interest of $63,992,477 $26,200,881 $2,096,135 Forwards: subsidiaries’ net assets and Sold others 2,463,786 — 20,266 Allocation Method : Forwards: — Sold — — — Total / / $2,116,401 Notes: 1. Primarily the deferred method is applied under “Accounting and Auditing Treatment Relating to Adoption of Accounting Standards for Foreign Currency Transactions for Banks” (JICPA Industry Audit Committee Report No. 25, July 29, 2002). 2. Forward Exchange Contracts qualifying for the allocation method are treated as a unit of short-term bonds, hedged items. 225 (c) Stock-Related Transactions Millions of yen Primary Contract value As of March 31, 2017 hedged items Total Over one year Fair value Fair Value Hedge Method : Other securities Forward Stock Agreements: Sold ¥154,072 ¥40,175 ¥(4,608) Index Futures: Sold — — — Bought — — — Total / / ¥(4,608) Millions of yen Primary Contract value As of March 31, 2016 hedged items Total Over one year Fair value Fair Value Hedge Method : Other securities Forward Stock Agreements: Sold ¥181,617 ¥132,309 ¥18,172 Index Futures: Sold 117 — 0 Bought 179 — (1) Total / / ¥18,170 Thousands of U.S. dollars Primary Contract value As of March 31, 2017 hedged items Total Over one year Fair value Fair Value Hedge Method : Other securities Forward Stock Agreements: Sold $1,373,197 $358,072 $(41,076) Index Futures: Sold — — — Bought — — — Total / / $(41,076) 226 Financial Data of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 43. Segment Information Segment Information by Management Approach 1. Summary of Reportable Segment MHFG has introduced an in-house company system based on the group’s diverse customer segments as of April, 2016. The aim of this system is to leverage MHFG’s strengths and competitive advantage, which is the seamless integration of MHFG’s banking, trust and securities functions under a holding company structure, to speedily provide high-quality financial services that closely match customer needs. Specifically, the company system is classified into the following five in-house companies, each based on a customer segment: the Retail & Business Banking Company, the Corporate & Institutional Company, the Global Corporate Company, the Global Markets Company, and the Asset Management Company. These customer segments are regarded as operating segments. In line with the aforementioned system, the reportable segments have been changed from those based on the relevant principal consolidated subsidiaries to the five in-house companies. The services that each in-house company is in charge of are as follows: Retail & Business Banking Company: This company provides financial services for individual customers, small and medium-sized enterprises and middle market firms in Japan Corporate & Institutional Company: This company provides financial services for large corporations, financial institutions and public corporations in Japan Global Corporate Company: This company provides financial services for Japanese overseas affiliated corporate customers and non-Japanese corporate customers, etc. Global Markets Company: This company invests in financial products with market risk, such as interest rate risk, equity risk, and credit risk Asset Management Company: This company develops financial products and provides financial services that match the asset management needs of its wide range of customers from individuals to institutional investors The reportable segment information, set forth below, is derived from the internal management reporting systems used by management to measure the performance of the Group’s operating segments. Management measures the performance of each of the operating segments in accordance with internal managerial accounting rules and practices. 2. Calculating Method of Gross Profits (excluding the amounts of credit costs of trust accounts), Net Business Profits (excluding the amounts of credit costs of trust accounts, before reversal of (provision for) general reserve for losses on loans), and the Amount of Assets by Reportable Segment The following information of reportable segment is based on internal management reporting. Gross profits (excluding the amounts of credit costs of trust accounts) is the total amount of Interest income, Fiduciary income, Fee and commission income, Trading income, and Other operating income. Net business profits (excluding the amounts of credit costs of trust accounts, before reversal of (provision for) general reserve for losses on loans) is the amount of which General and administrative expenses (excluding non-recurring expenses) and Others (Equity in income from investments in affiliates and certain other consolidation adjustments) are deducted from Gross profits (excluding the amounts of credit costs of trust accounts). Asset information by segment is not prepared on the grounds that management does not use asset information of each segment for the purpose of asset allocation or performance evaluation. Gross profits (excluding the amounts of credit costs of trust accounts) relating to transactions between segments is based on the current market price. 227 3. Gross Profits (excluding the amounts of credit costs of trust accounts) and Net Business Profits or Losses (excluding the amounts of credit costs of trust accounts, before reversal of (provision for) general reserve for losses on loans) by Reportable Segment Millions of yen MHFG (Consolidated) Retail & Business Corporate & Asset For the Fiscal Year Banking Institutional Global Corporate Global Markets Management Others ended March 31,2017 Company Company Company Company Company (Note 2) Total Gross profits: (excluding the amounts of credit costs of trust accounts) ¥ 646,100 ¥ 445,100 ¥ 386,500 ¥ 539,400 ¥ 49,600 ¥ 26,040 ¥ 2,092,740 General and administrative expenses (excluding NonRecurring Losses) 678,300 186,700 237,800 200,900 29,300 87,492 1,420,492 Others — — — — — (8,831) (8,831) Net business profits or losses (excluding the amounts of credit costs of trust accounts, before reversal of (provision for) general reserve for losses on loans) ¥ (32,200) ¥ 258,400 ¥ 148,700 ¥ 338,500 ¥ 20,300 ¥ (70,283) ¥ 663,416 Millions of yen MHFG (Consolidated) Retail & Business Corporate & Asset For the Fiscal Year Banking Institutional Global Corporate Global Markets Management Others ended March 31,2016 Company Company Company Company Company (Note 2) Total Gross profits: (excluding the amounts of credit costs of trust accounts) ¥ 676,400 ¥ 434,900 ¥ 403,800 ¥ 577,700 ¥ 52,100 ¥ 76,715 ¥ 2,221,615 General and administrative expenses (excluding NonRecurring Losses) 661,200 183,200 232,700 178,900 30,100 58,860 1,344,960 Others — — — — — (23,800) (23,800) Net business profits or losses (excluding the amounts of credit costs of trust accounts, before reversal of (provision for) general reserve for losses on loans) ¥ 15,200 ¥ 251,700 ¥ 171,100 ¥ 398,800 ¥ 22,000 ¥ (5,945) ¥ 852,854 228 Financial Data of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements Thousands of U.S. dollars MHFG (Consolidated) Retail & Business Corporate & Asset For the Fiscal Year Banking Institutional Global Corporate Global Markets Management Others ended March 31,2017 Company Company Company Company Company (Note 2) Total Gross profits: (excluding the amounts of credit costs of trust accounts) $ 5,758,467 $ 3,967,023 $ 3,444,741 $ 4,807,487 $ 442,068 $ 232,086 $ 18,651,872 General and administrative expenses (excluding NonRecurring Losses) 6,045,455 1,663,993 2,119,429 1,790,553 261,141 779,787 12,660,358 Others — — — — — (78,715) (78,715) Net business profits or losses (excluding the amounts of credit costs of trust accounts, before reversal of (provision for) general reserve for losses on loans) $ (286,988) $ 2,303,030 $ 1,325,312 $ 3,016,934 $ 180,927 $ (626,416) $ 5,912,799 Notes: 1.Gross profits (excluding the amounts of credit costs of trust accounts) is reported instead of sales reported by general corporations. 2.“Others” includes items which should be eliminated as internal transactions between each segment on a consolidated basis. 3.Following the introduction of an in-house company system based on customer segments in April, 2016, reclassification was made on the above table for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2016 to reflect the relevant change. 229 4. The Difference between the Total Amounts of Reportable Segments and the Recorded Amounts in Consolidated Statement of Income, and the Contents of the Difference (Matters relating to adjustment to difference) The above amount of Gross profits (excluding the amounts of credit costs of trust accounts) and that of Net business profits (excluding the amounts of credit costs of trust accounts, before reversal of (provision for) general reserve for losses on loans) derived from internal management reporting by reportable segment are different from the amounts recorded in Consolidated Statement of Income. The contents of the difference for the period are as follows: (a) The Total of Gross Profits (excluding the amounts of credit costs of trust accounts) of Segment Information and Ordinary Profits recorded in the Consolidated Statement of Income Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars 2017 2016 2017 Gross Profits (excluding the amounts of credit costs of trust accounts) ¥ 2,092,740 ¥ 2,221,615 $ 18,651,872 Other Ordinary Income 379,228 344,674 3,379,929 General and Administrative Expenses (1,467,221) (1,349,593) (13,076,841) Other Ordinary Expenses (267,233) (219,166) (2,381,761) Ordinary Profits recorded in Consolidated Statement of Income ¥ 737,512 ¥ 997,529 $ 6,573,199 Note: Ordinary profits represents Total Income excluding certain special income less Total Expenses excluding certain special expenses. (b) The Total of Net Business Profits (excluding the amounts of credit costs of trust accounts, before reversal of (provision for) general reserve for losses on loans) of Segment Information and Income before Income Taxes Recorded in Consolidated Statement of Income Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars 2017 2016 2017 Net Business Profits (excluding the amounts of credit costs of trust accounts, before reversal of (provision for) general reserve for losses on loans) ¥ 663,416 ¥ 852,854 $ 5,912,799 Credit Costs for Trust Accounts — — — General and Administrative Expenses (non-recurring losses) (46,729) (4,632) (416,483) Expenses Related to Portfolio Problems (including reversal of (provision for) general reserve for losses on loans) (80,201) (47,745) (714,811) Gains on Reversal of Reserves for Possible Losses on Loans and others 32,662 17,297 291,110 Net Gains (Losses) Related to Stocks 242,145 205,678 2,158,159 Net Extraordinary Gains (Losses) 46,680 10,722 416,044 Others (73,779) (25,923) (657,575) Income before Income Taxes Recorded in Consolidated Statement of Income ¥ 784,193 ¥ 1,008,252 $ 6,989,243 230 Financial Data of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 5. Related Information (a) Information about Geographic Areas (i) Ordinary income Millions of yen Asia/Oceania 2017 Japan Americas Europe excluding Japan Total Ordinary Income ¥ 2,292,950 ¥ 430,329 ¥ 181,277 ¥ 388,342 ¥ 3,292,900 Millions of yen Asia/Oceania 2016 Japan Americas Europe excluding Japan Total Ordinary Income ¥ 2,406,320 ¥ 322,385 ¥ 149,234 ¥ 337,332 ¥ 3,215,274 Thousands of U.S. dollars Asia/Oceania 2017 Japan Americas Europe excluding Japan Total Ordinary Income $ 20,436,284 $ 3,835,374 $ 1,615,664 $ 3,461,166 $ 29,348,488 Notes: 1.Geographic analyses are presented based on geographic contiguity, similarities in economic activities, and relation of business operations. The above table shows Ordinary Income instead of sales of non-financial companies. 2.Japan includes Ordinary Income of MHFG and domestic consolidated subsidiaries excluding overseas branches, Americas includes Ordinary Income of consolidated subsidiaries and branches in Canada, the United States of America and others, Europe includes Ordinary Income of consolidated subsidiaries and branches in the United Kingdom and others and Asia/Oceania includes Ordinary Income of consolidated subsidiaries and branches in Hong Kong, the Republic of Singapore and others. (ii) Tangible fixed assets Information on tangible fixed assets by geographical areas as of March 31, 2017 and 2016 is not disclosed since tangible fixed assets in Japan accounted for more than 90% of tangible fixed assets. (b) Information about Major Customers Information about major customers is not disclosed since there are no outside customers accounted for more than 10% of Ordinary Income of the Company. 231 6. Information about Impairment Loss on Tangible Fixed Assets by Reportable Segment Millions of yen MHFG (Consolidated) Corporate & Asset For the Fiscal Year Retail & Business Institutional Global Corporate Global Markets Management ended March 31, 2017 Banking Company Company Company Company Company Others Total Impairment Loss ¥ — ¥ — ¥ — ¥ — ¥ — ¥ 6,651 ¥ 6,651 Millions of yen MHFG (Consolidated) Corporate & Asset For the Fiscal Year Retail & Business Institutional Global Corporate Global Markets Management ended March 31, 2016 Banking Company Company Company Company Company Others Total Impairment Loss ¥ — ¥ — ¥ — ¥ — ¥ — ¥ 4,412 ¥ 4,412 Thousands of U.S. dollars MHFG (Consolidated) Corporate & Asset For the Fiscal Year Retail & Business Institutional Global Corporate Global Markets Management ended March 31, 2017 Banking Company Company Company Company Company Others Total Impairment Loss $ — $ — $ — $ — $ — $ 59,286 $ 59,286 232 Financial Data of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 7. Information about Amortization and Unamortized Balance of Goodwill by Reportable Segment Millions of yen MHFG (Consolidated) Retail & Business Corporate & Asset For the Fiscal Year ended Banking Institutional Global Corporate Global Markets Management March 31, 2017 Company Company Company Company Company Others Total Amortization of Goodwill ¥ — ¥ — ¥ — ¥ — ¥ — ¥ 2,816 ¥ 2,816 Unamortized Balance of Goodwill ¥ — ¥ — ¥ — ¥ — ¥ — ¥ 74,772 ¥ 74,772 Millions of yen MHFG (Consolidated) Retail & Business Corporate & Asset For the Fiscal Year ended Banking Institutional Global Corporate Global Markets Management March 31, 2016 Company Company Company Company Company Others Total Amortization of Goodwill ¥ — ¥ — ¥ — ¥ — ¥ — ¥ 830 ¥ 830 Unamortized Balance of Goodwill ¥ — ¥ — ¥ — ¥ — ¥ — ¥ 23,440 ¥ 23,440 Thousands of U.S. dollars MHFG (Consolidated) Retail & Business Corporate & Asset For the Fiscal Year ended Banking Institutional Global Corporate Global Markets Management March 31, 2017 Company Company Company Company Company Others Total Amortization of Goodwill $ — $ — $ — $ — $ — $ 25,105 $ 25,105 Unamortized Balance of Goodwill $ — $ — $ — $ — $ — $ 666,422 $ 666,422 233 8. Information about Gain on Negative Goodwill Incurred by Reportable Segment For the fiscal years ended March 31, 2017 and 2016 ・There is no applicable information. 44. Related Party For the fiscal years ended March 31, 2017 and 2016 ・There are no material additions to the current scope subject to disclosure. 234 Financial Data of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 45. Matters Related to Combination and Others DIAM Co., Ltd. (“DIAM”), an affiliate under the equity method, and Mizuho Trust & Banking Co., Ltd. (“MHTB”), Mizuho Asset Management Co., Ltd. (“MHAM”) and Shinko Asset Management Co., Ltd. (“Shinko Asset Management”), each a consolidated subsidiary of MHFG (collectively, the “Integrating Companies”), entered into an integration agreement, after obtaining approval by resolutions adopted by their respective boards of directors on July 13, 2016. The integration became effective on October 1, 2016. The integration was implemented through the following steps: (i) a merger between MHAM as surviving company and Shinko Asset Management as absorbed company; (ii) a company split between MHTB and MHAM (after the merger in (i) above) as successor company whereby rights and obligations attributed to the Asset Management Division of MHTB were transferred to MHAM; and (iii) a merger between DIAM as surviving company and MHAM as absorbed company. The following is an overview of the merger between DIAM as the surviving company and MHAM as the absorbed company. (1) Name of the acquired company, business type, date of the combination, legal form of the combination, name of the company after the combination, shareholding ratio based on economic interests (shareholding ratio based on voting rights), grounds for determination of the acquiring company, and major reasons for the combination a. Name of the acquired DIAM Co., Ltd. company b. Business type Investment Management, and Investment Advisory and Agency Business c. Date of the combination October 1, 2016 d. Legal form of the combination A merger between DIAM as surviving company and MHAM as absorbed company e. Name of the company after Asset Management One Co., Ltd. the combination f. Shareholding ratio based on Shareholding ratio based on economic interests held 50.00% economic interests before the combination (Shareholding ratio based on Shareholding ratio based on economic interests 20.00% voting rights) obtained on the combination date Shareholding ratio based on economic interests after 70.00% acquisition The shareholding ratio based on voting rights has changed from 50.00% to 51.00%. g. Grounds for determination of As MHFG, a shareholder of MHAM, which is the legal absorbed company, the acquiring company holds over half of the new company’s voting rights as a result of the merger, MHAM is the acquiring company and DIAM is the acquired company under the accounting standards for business combination. 235 h. Major reasons for the Based on the strong commitment of MHFG and Dai-ichi Life Holdings, Inc. combination (“Dai-ichi Life”) to strengthen and develop their respective asset management businesses, the New Company will aim to achieve significant development as a global asset management company, providing its customers with solutions of the highest standards by combining the asset management-related knowledge and experience accumulated and developed by each Integrating Company over many years, and taking full advantage of collaboration with both the MHFG Group and the Dai-ichi Life group. In order to establish a highly independent and transparent management framework, the New Company’s independent outside directors (Audit & Supervisory Committee members) will include professionals with a high level of expertise in the areas of asset management, legal affairs and accounting. In addition, the New Company will fulfill its fiduciary duties as a professional asset management firm and provide services and products that truly benefit its customers. Through these efforts, the New Company aims to become the most trusted and valued asset management company —meeting the needs of pension funds and corporate customers in terms of diversification and sophistication of their investments, as well as encouraging a shift “from saving to investment” in Japan through providing individual customers with high-quality products and services. (2) Period of the acquired company’s results included in the quarterly consolidated financial statements From October 1, 2016 to March 31, 2017 (3) Acquisition cost and its breakdown of the acquired company Consideration for acquisition Common stock of MHAM ¥100,948 million ($899,721 thousand) Acquisition cost: ¥100,948 million ($899,721 thousand) (4) Merger ratio, calculation method, number of new shares to be issued, and gains and losses on the step acquisition a. Merger ratio DIAM Co., Ltd. Mizuho Asset Management Co., Ltd. Company Name (surviving company) (absorbed company) Merger Ratio 1 0.0154 The merger ratio has been calculated after combining shares of common stock and classified stock. b. Calculation method In calculating the merger ratio, MHFG and Dai-ichi Life appointed a third-party for valuations respectively. Both companies made the final determination of the validity of the merger ratio based on the careful exchange of views between the two companies, taking into account the financial and asset situation of the two companies and other factors in a comprehensive manner, while using the thirdparty calculations as reference. 236 Financial Data of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements c. Number of new shares to be issued Common stock 490 shares Classified stock 15,510 shares d. Gains and losses on the step ¥56,226 million ($501,125 thousand) acquisition (included in Extraordinary Gains) (5) Amount, cause, amortization method and amortization period of Goodwill a. Amount of Goodwill incurred ¥53,357 million ($475,556 thousand) b. Cause Difference between the amount corresponding to MHFG’s equity position in the acquired company and the acquisition cost c. Amortization method and Amortization over a period of 20 years under the straight-line amortization period of Goodwill method (6) Amount and breakdown of Assets received and Liabilities undertaken on the combination date a. Assets Total Assets ¥40,850 million ($364,088 thousand) Cash and Due from Banks ¥13,704 million ($122,144 thousand) Money Held in Trust ¥11,792 million ($105,101 thousand) b. Liabilities Total Liabilities ¥9,655 million ($ 86,054 thousand) Other Liabilities ¥7,528 million ($ 67,098 thousand) The amount allocated to Customer-Related Assets (see (7) b. below) and the related amount of Deferred Tax Liabilities have not been included in a. Assets and b. Liabilities, respectively. (7) Amount allocated to Intangible Fixed Assets other than Goodwill, breakdown by major type, and weighted-average amortization period in total and by major type a. Amount allocated to Intangible Fixed Assets ¥53,030 million ($472,638 thousand) b. Breakdown by major type Customer-Related Assets ¥53,030 million ($472,638 thousand) c. Weighted-average amortization period in total and by major type Customer-Related Assets 16.9 years 237 46. Per Share Information Per share information as of or for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2017 and 2016 are calculated based on the following information: Yen U.S. dollars As of or for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2017 2016 2017 Net Assets per Share of Common Stock ¥335.96 ¥322.46 $2.99 Profit Attributable to Owners of Parent per Share of 23.86 0.21 Common Stock 26.94 Diluted Profit Attributable to Owners of Parent per 23.78 0.21 Share of Common Stock 26.42 Notes: 1. Total Net Assets per Share of Common Stock is based on the following information. Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars As of March 31, 2017 2016 2017 Total Net Assets ¥9,273,361 ¥9,353,244 $82,650,284 Deductions from Total Net Assets 751,093 1,285,343 6,694,240 Paid-in Amount of Preferred Stock — 98,923 — Cash Dividends on Preferred Stock — 989 — Stock Acquisition Rights 1,754 2,762 15,633 Non-Controlling Interests 749,339 1,182,668 6,678,607 Net Assets (year-end) related to Common Stock 8,522,268 8,067,900 75,956,044 Year-end Outstanding Shares of Common Stock, based on which Total Net Assets per Share of Common Stock was calculated 25,366,315 Thousand shares 25,019,596 Thousand shares / 2. Profit Attributable to Owners of Parent per Share of Common Stock is based on the following information. Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars For the fiscal years ended March 31, 2017 2016 2017 Profit Attributable to Owners of Parent ¥603,544 ¥670,943 $5,379,188 Amount not attributable to Common Stock — 2,429 — Cash Dividends on Preferred Stock — 2,429 — Profit Attributable to Owners of Parent related to Common Stock 603,544 668,513 5,379,188 Average Outstanding Shares of Common Stock (during the period) 25,285,898 Thousand shares 24,806,160 Thousand shares / 3. Diluted Profit Attributable to Owners of Parent per Share of Common Stock is based on the following information. Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars For the fiscal years ended March 31, 2017 2016 2017 Adjustment to Profit Attributable to Owners of Parent ¥— ¥2,429 $— Cash Dividends on Preferred Stock — 2,429 — Increased Number of Shares of Common Stock 94,403 Thousand shares 580,872 Thousand shares / Preferred Stock 82,993 Thousand shares 563,044 Thousand shares / Stock Acquisition Rights 11,409 Thousand shares 17,828 Thousand shares / Description of Dilutive Securities which were not included in the Calculation of Diluted Profit Attributable to Owners of — — / Parent per Share of Common Stock as they have no Dilutive effects 238 Financial Data of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 4. In the calculation of Net Assets per Share of Common Stock, MHFG shares outstanding in BBT trust account that were recognized as Treasury Stock in Shareholders’ Equity are included in Treasury Stock shares deducted from the number of issued shares as of March 31, 2017.The number of such Treasury Stock shares deducted during the period is 9,000 thousand. In the calculation of Profit Attributable to Owners of Parent per Share of Common Stock and Diluted Profit Attributable to Owners of Parent per Share of Common Stock, such Treasury Stock shares are included in Treasury Stock shares deducted in the calculation of the Average Outstanding Shares of Common Stock during the period. The average number of such Treasury Stock shares deducted during the period is 6,000 thousand. 47. Subsequent Events There is no applicable information. 239 Non-Consolidated Financial Statements of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. and Three Subsidiaries [Under Japanese GAAP] Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. 241 Non-Consolidated Balance Sheet 242 Non-Consolidated Statement of Income Mizuho Bank, Ltd. 243 Non-Consolidated Balance Sheet 245 Non-Consolidated Statement of Income Mizuho Trust & Banking Co., Ltd. 246 Non-Consolidated Balance Sheet 248 Non-Consolidated Statement of Income Mizuho Securities Co., Ltd. 249 Non-Consolidated Balance Sheet 252 Non-Consolidated Statement of Income 240 Non-Consolidated Financial Statements of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. and Three Subsidiaries Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. Non-Consolidated Balance Sheet Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars As of March 31, 2017 2016 2017 Assets Current Assets ¥ 112,350 ¥ 90,816 $ 1,001,338 Cash and Due from Banks 20,190 16,442 179,949 Other Current Assets 92,159 74,374 821,389 Fixed Assets 9,157,019 6,973,394 81,613,365 Tangible Fixed Assets 205,518 165,803 1,831,719 Intangible Fixed Assets 12,705 8,451 113,239 Investments in Subsidiaries and Affiliates 6,074,554 6,022,661 54,140,418 Other Investments 2,864,240 776,478 25,527,989 Total Assets ¥ 9,269,369 ¥ 7,064,211 $ 82,614,703 Liabilities and Net Assets Liabilities Current Liabilities ¥ 1,179,516 ¥ 1,197,207 $ 10,512,622 Short-term Borrowings 656,100 686,345 5,847,594 Short-term Bonds 500,000 500,000 4,456,328 Other Current Liabilities 23,416 10,862 208,700 Non-Current Liabilities 2,747,329 669,794 24,486,005 Total Liabilities 3,926,845 1,867,002 34,998,627 Net Assets Shareholders' Equity 5,288,113 5,151,857 47,131,139 Common Stock and Preferred Stock 2,256,275 2,255,790 20,109,405 Capital Surplus 1,196,258 1,195,830 10,661,841 Capital Reserve 1,196,167 1,195,682 10,661,028 Other Capital Surplus 91 147 813 Retained Earnings 1,839,725 1,703,049 16,396,838 Appropriated Reserve 4,350 4,350 38,770 Other Retained Earnings 1,835,375 1,698,699 16,358,068 Retained Earnings Brought Forward 1,835,375 1,698,699 16,358,068 Treasury Stock (4,145) (2,813) (36,945) Valuation and Translation Adjustments 52,655 42,588 469,304 Net Unrealized Gains (Losses) on Other Securities, net of Taxes 52,655 42,588 469,304 Stock Acquisition Rights 1,754 2,762 15,633 Total Net Assets 5,342,523 5,197,208 47,616,076 Total Liabilities and Net Assets ¥ 9,269,369 ¥ 7,064,211 $ 82,614,703 Notes: 1. The amounts indicated in millions of yen are rounded down by truncating the figures below one million. 2. The rate of ¥112.20=US$1.00, the foreign exchange rate on March 31, 2017, has been used for translation. 241 Non-Consolidated Statement of Income Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars For the Fiscal Years ended March 31, 2017 2016 2017 Operating Income ¥ 378,084 ¥ 333,500 $ 3,369,737 Cash Dividends Received from Subsidiaries and Affiliates 328,148 292,883 2,924,671 Fee and Commission Income Received from Subsidiaries and Affiliates 49,936 40,616 445,066 Operating Expenses 38,926 31,063 346,942 General and Administrative Expenses 38,926 31,063 346,942 Operating Profits 339,157 302,436 3,022,795 Non-Operating Income 44,558 23,587 397,139 Non-Operating Expenses 56,302 21,117 501,805 Income before Income Taxes 327,414 304,906 2,918,129 Income Taxes: Current 519 334 4,631 Deferred 217 182 1,940 Net Income ¥ 326,676 ¥ 304,389 $ 2,911,558 Notes: 1. The amounts indicated in millions of yen are rounded down by truncating the figures below one million. 2. The rate of ¥112.20=US$1.00, the foreign exchange rate on March 31, 2017, has been used for translation. 242 Non-Consolidated Financial Statements of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. and Three Subsidiaries Mizuho Bank, Ltd. Non-Consolidated Balance Sheet Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars As of March 31, 2017 2016 2017 Assets Cash and Due from Banks ¥38,943,082 ¥30,156,145 $347,086,293 Call Loans 433,198 266,249 3,860,953 Receivables under Resale Agreements 596,194 368,351 5,313,681 Other Debt Purchased 728,080 729,842 6,489,129 Trading Assets 4,234,901 6,421,352 37,744,216 Money Held in Trust 3,137 3,197 27,965 Securities 31,264,703 37,903,140 278,651,542 Loans and Bills Discounted 71,262,838 70,374,392 635,141,161 Foreign Exchange Assets 1,769,212 1,343,546 15,768,386 Other Assets 5,470,641 6,696,402 48,757,944 Tangible Fixed Assets 828,363 836,484 7,382,915 Buildings 308,823 306,867 2,752,436 Land 415,294 417,687 3,701,378 Lease Assets 24,758 23,356 220,668 Construction in Progress 18,153 19,346 161,799 Other Tangible Fixed Assets 61,332 69,226 546,634 Intangible Fixed Assets 754,547 636,583 6,725,025 Software 223,925 245,168 1,995,771 Lease Assets 15,488 10,643 138,044 Other Intangible Fixed Assets 515,133 380,770 4,591,210 Prepaid Pension Cost 481,968 469,034 4,295,619 Customers' Liabilities for Acceptances and Guarantees 5,757,150 5,297,202 51,311,498 Reserves for Possible Losses on Loans (437,689) (379,190) (3,900,977) Total Assets ¥162,090,330 ¥161,122,736 $1,444,655,350 243 Non-Consolidated Balance Sheet—(Continued) Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars As of March 31, 2017 2016 2017 Liabilities and Shareholders' Equity Liabilities Deposits ¥117,881,635 ¥111,374,133 $1,050,638,462 Call Money 775,450 1,127,524 6,911,319 Payables under Repurchase Agreements 7,604,970 7,588,922 67,780,489 Guarantee Deposits Received under Securities Lending Transactions 335,575 786,431 2,990,866 Commercial Paper 765,146 777,601 6,819,491 Trading Liabilities 3,362,426 5,198,295 29,968,150 Borrowed Money 9,136,351 8,697,522 81,429,156 Foreign Exchange Liabilities 729,532 682,188 6,502,071 Bonds and Notes 3,726,331 4,376,773 33,211,509 Other Liabilities 4,453,787 7,422,691 39,695,072 Reserve for Bonus Payments 20,902 20,437 186,295 Reserve for Variable Compensation 1,269 1,300 11,313 Reserve for Possible Losses on Sales of Loans 298 267 2,657 Reserve for Contingencies 52 800 465 Reserve for Reimbursement of Deposits 17,575 15,041 156,646 Reserve for Reimbursement of Debentures 32,720 39,245 291,629 Deferred Tax Liabilities 186,153 302,072 1,659,121 Deferred Tax Liabilities for Revaluation Reserve for Land 66,585 67,991 593,456 Acceptances and Guarantees 5,757,150 5,297,202 51,311,498 Total Liabilities 154,853,914 153,776,443 1,380,159,665 Net Assets Shareholders' Equity 5,988,810 5,922,330 53,376,209 Common Stock and Preferred Stock 1,404,065 1,404,065 12,513,948 Capital Surplus 2,286,328 2,286,795 20,377,264 Capital Reserve 655,418 655,324 5,841,516 Other Capital Surplus 1,630,910 1,631,471 14,535,748 Retained Earnings 2,298,416 2,231,469 20,484,997 Appropriated Reserve 225,810 169,829 2,012,571 Other Retained Earnings 2,072,606 2,061,640 18,472,426 Retained Earnings Brought Forward 2,072,606 2,061,640 18,472,426 Valuation and Translation Adjustments 1,247,605 1,423,961 11,119,476 Net Unrealized Gains (Losses) on Other Securities, net of Taxes 1,099,468 1,106,333 9,799,183 Net Deferred Hedge Gains (Losses), net of Taxes 2,527 169,143 22,525 Revaluation Reserve for Land, net of Taxes 145,609 148,483 1,297,768 Total Net Assets 7,236,415 7,346,292 64,495,685 Total Liabilities and Net Assets ¥162,090,330 ¥161,122,736 $1,444,655,350 Notes: 1. The amounts indicated in millions of yen are rounded down by truncating the figures below one million. 2. The rate of ¥112.20=US$1.00, the foreign exchange rate on March 31, 2017, has been used for translation. 244 Non-Consolidated Financial Statements of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. and Three Subsidiaries Mizuho Bank, Ltd. Non-Consolidated Statement of Income Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars For the Fiscal Years ended March 31, 2017 2016 2017 Income Interest Income ¥1,204,728 ¥1,207,062 $10,737,329 Loans and Bills Discounted 820,861 801,996 7,316,057 Securities 257,345 284,113 2,293,634 Fee and Commission Income 470,240 477,788 4,191,090 Trading Income 81,202 96,734 723,728 Other Operating Income 191,592 197,715 1,707,601 Other Income 287,922 278,912 2,566,157 Total Income 2,235,686 2,258,212 19,925,905 Expenses Interest Expenses 484,970 377,013 4,322,373 Deposits 239,159 168,237 2,131,550 Fee and Commission Expenses 93,982 91,475 837,631 Trading Expenses 792 2,282 7,063 Other Operating Expenses 47,643 44,711 424,629 General and Administrative Expenses 901,693 832,319 8,036,485 Other Expenses 251,650 207,496 2,242,875 Total Expenses 1,780,732 1,555,299 15,871,056 Income before Income Taxes 454,954 702,913 4,054,849 Income Taxes: Current 129,486 161,424 1,154,065 Deferred (17,098) 51,276 (152,392) Net Income ¥342,566 ¥490,212 $3,053,176 Notes: 1. The amounts indicated in millions of yen are rounded down by truncating the figures below one million. 2. The rate of ¥112.20=US$1.00, the foreign exchange rate on March 31, 2017, has been used for translation. 245 Non-Consolidated Financial Statements of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. and Three Subsidiaries Mizuho Trust & Banking Co., Ltd. Non-Consolidated Balance Sheet Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars As of March 31, 2017 2016 2017 Assets Cash and Due from Banks ¥1,699,040 ¥1,665,011 $15,142,962 Call Loans 6,956 5,520 62,000 Guarantee Deposits Paid under Securities Borrowing Transactions 113,046 215,970 1,007,543 Other Debt Purchased 9,196 13,358 81,970 Trading Assets 90,487 127,305 806,488 Money Held in Trust 3,286 2,578 29,290 Securities 1,253,105 1,492,120 11,168,500 Loans and Bills Discounted 3,326,296 3,496,313 29,646,140 Foreign Exchange Assets 2,596 3,675 23,139 Other Assets 83,804 80,648 746,920 Tangible Fixed Assets 23,617 24,632 210,497 Buildings 10,549 10,390 94,023 Land 10,153 11,246 90,498 Construction in Progress 1 100 12 Other Tangible Fixed Assets 2,913 2,896 25,964 Intangible Fixed Assets 33,477 24,022 298,373 Software 14,689 14,750 130,926 Other Intangible Fixed Assets 18,787 9,271 167,447 Prepaid Pension Cost 49,230 49,795 438,775 Customers' Liabilities for Acceptances and Guarantees 23,887 43,749 212,899 Reserves for Possible Losses on Loans (4,779) (5,636) (42,597) Total Assets ¥6,713,251 ¥7,239,067 $59,832,899 246 Non-Consolidated Financial Statements of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. and Three Subsidiaries Mizuho Trust & Banking Co., Ltd. Non-Consolidated Balance Sheet―(Continued) Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars As of March 31, 2017 2016 2017 Liabilities and Shareholders' Equity Liabilities Deposits ¥3,715,010 ¥3,409,338 $33,110,615 Call Money 242,493 1,162,877 2,161,260 Payables under Repurchase Agreements 67,320 67,602 600,000 Guarantee Deposits Received under Securities Lending Transactions 310,303 420,713 2,765,632 Trading Liabilities 83,683 121,483 745,839 Borrowed Money 372,578 366,955 3,320,665 Foreign Exchange Liabilities ― 0 ― Bonds and Notes 10,000 10,000 89,126 Due to Trust Accounts 1,272,149 1,019,554 11,338,229 Other Liabilities 36,173 60,074 322,401 Reserve for Bonus Payments 1,976 1,953 17,620 Reserve for Variable Compensation 413 401 3,683 Reserve for Reimbursement of Deposits 1,496 1,113 13,337 Deferred Tax Liabilities 9,692 12,043 86,388 Acceptances and Guarantees 23,887 43,749 212,899 Total Liabilities 6,147,179 6,697,859 54,787,694 Net Assets Shareholders' Equity 467,888 442,965 4,170,128 Common Stock and Preferred Stock 247,369 247,369 2,204,721 Capital Surplus 15,505 15,505 138,192 Capital Reserve 15,505 15,505 138,192 Retained Earnings 205,013 180,091 1,827,215 Appropriated Reserve 27,427 23,327 244,455 Other Retained Earnings 177,585 156,763 1,582,760 Retained Earnings Brought Forward 177,585 156,763 1,582,760 Valuation and Translation Adjustments 98,183 98,241 875,077 Net Unrealized Gains (Losses) on Other Securities, net of Taxes 96,529 97,740 860,333 Net Deferred Hedge Gains (Losses), net of Taxes 1,654 501 14,744 Total Net Assets 566,071 541,207 5,045,205 Total Liabilities and Net Assets ¥6,713,251 ¥7,239,067 $59,832,899 Notes: 1. The amounts indicated in millions of yen are rounded down by truncating the figures below one million. 2. The rate of ¥112.20=US$1.00, the foreign exchange rate on March 31, 2017, has been used for translation. 247 Non-Consolidated Statement of Income Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars For the Fiscal Years ended March 31, 2017 2016 2017 Income Fiduciary Income ¥50,075 ¥53,324 $446,309 Interest Income 39,805 47,043 354,769 Loans and Bills Discounted 25,817 28,497 230,100 Securities 12,259 16,683 109,262 Fee and Commission Income 58,874 53,927 524,732 Trading Income 1,180 1,347 10,525 Other Operating Income 14,483 25,290 129,086 Other Income 33,608 14,352 299,537 Total Income 198,028 195,286 1,764,958 Expenses Interest Expenses 10,221 11,284 91,105 Deposits 1,288 2,694 11,484 Fee and Commission Expenses 27,545 25,936 245,502 Trading Expenses 0 ― 1 Other Operating Expenses 5,556 8,137 49,526 General and Administrative Expenses 86,723 79,954 772,933 Other Expenses 6,628 10,370 59,074 Total Expenses 136,675 135,684 1,218,141 Income before Income Taxes 61,352 59,602 546,817 Income Taxes: Current 16,787 15,945 149,624 Deferred (917) 3,215 (8,179) Net Income ¥45,482 ¥40,440 $405,372 Notes: 1. The amounts indicated in millions of yen are rounded down by truncating the figures below one million. 2. The rate of ¥112.20=US$1.00, the foreign exchange rate on March 31, 2017, has been used for translation. 248 Non-Consolidated Financial Statements of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. and Three Subsidiaries Mizuho Securities Co., Ltd. Non-Consolidated Balance Sheet Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars As of March 31, 2017 2016 2017 Assets Current Assets Cash and Due from Banks ¥249,691 ¥283,049 $2,225,416 Cash Segregated as Deposits for Customers and Others 230,214 170,684 2,051,823 Trading Assets 5,019,291 5,990,021 44,735,222 Trading Securities and Others 2,638,609 3,115,313 23,517,019 Derivatives 2,380,682 2,874,707 21,218,203 Receivables unsettled Trades 169,960 27,923 1,514,803 Operating Investment Securities 21,762 19,010 193,965 Operating Loans Receivable 2,790 3,100 24,866 Receivables Related to Margin Transactions 96,255 98,958 857,888 Loans Receivable under Margin Transactions 35,251 54,181 314,184 Cash Collateral for Borrowed Securities under Margin Transactions 61,003 44,776 543,704 Collateralized Short-term Financing Agreements-receivable 3,821,571 3,949,642 34,060,350 Deposits Paid for Securities Borrowed 3,506,714 3,718,958 31,254,143 Securities Purchased under Agreements to Resell 314,856 230,684 2,806,207 Advances Paid 191 107 1,707 Short-term Guarantee Deposits 496,793 370,794 4,427,746 Securities: Fail to Deliver 28,695 11,937 255,751 Variation Margin Paid ― 1,020 ― Short-term Loans Receivable 22,459 50,711 200,177 Advance Payments 690 1,075 6,158 Prepaid Expenses 3,193 2,647 28,459 Accounts Receivable-other 6,495 2,520 57,888 Accrued income 26,456 23,143 235,798 Deferred Tax Assets 15,302 8,735 136,385 Other Current Assets 4,009 3,112 35,733 Less: Allowance for Doubtful Accounts (6) (16) (53) Total Current Assets 10,215,819 11,018,181 91,050,082 Noncurrent Assets Tangible Fixed Assets 15,087 14,540 134,473 Intangible Fixed Assets 50,195 42,370 447,376 Investments and Other Assets 297,330 308,153 2,650,007 Investment Securities 246,267 241,992 2,194,901 Long-term Guarantee Deposits 11,759 12,216 104,809 Prepaid Pension Cost 15,761 15,020 140,473 Deferred Tax Assets 3,815 1,394 34,005 Other 23,304 41,163 207,709 Less: Allowance for Doubtful Accounts (3,578) (3,634) (31,890) Total Noncurrent Assets 362,614 365,065 3,231,856 Total Assets ¥10,578,433 ¥11,383,246 $94,281,938 249 Non-Consolidated Balance Sheet―(Continued) Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars As of March 31, 2017 2016 2017 Liabilities Current Liabilities Trading Liabilities ¥3,771,283 ¥4,445,062 $33,612,155 Trading Securities and Others 1,299,676 1,642,885 11,583,572 Derivatives 2,471,607 2,802,176 22,028,583 Payables Related to Margin Transactions 55,287 42,278 492,757 Borrowings on Margin Transactions 7,871 10,835 70,158 Cash Collateral for Loaned Securities under Margin Transactions 47,415 31,443 422,599 Collateralized Short-term Financing Agreements-payable 3,727,318 3,861,722 33,220,309 Deposits Received for Securities Loaned 1,255,986 1,909,797 11,194,178 Securities Sold under Agreements to Repurchase 2,471,331 1,951,925 22,026,131 Deposits Received 234,622 136,356 2,091,105 Guarantee Deposits Received 184,821 154,013 1,647,249 Securities: Fail to Receive 12,844 4,271 114,482 Variation Margin Received 1,640 ― 14,622 Short-term Borrowings 716,603 479,403 6,386,839 Commercial Paper 111,300 513,700 991,979 Bonds and Notes Due within One year 55,323 55,602 493,076 Lease Obligations 375 377 3,349 Advances Received 230 1,144 2,055 Accounts Payable-other 840 717 7,487 Accrued Expenses 25,243 26,266 224,986 Income Taxes Payable ― 4,400 ― Reserve for Bonus Payments 13,432 13,217 119,723 Provision for Variable Compensation 855 790 7,628 Provision for Bonus Point Redemption 596 623 5,313 Other Current Liabilities 559 3,293 4,985 Total Current Liabilities 8,913,179 9,743,240 79,440,099 Noncurrent Liabilities Bonds and Notes 554,903 548,766 4,945,661 Long-term Borrowings 233,500 409,400 2,081,105 Lease Obligations 494 857 4,408 Provision for Retirement Benefits 19,536 18,034 174,124 Other Noncurrent Liabilities 1,647 1,885 14,680 Total Noncurrent Liabilities 810,081 978,944 7,219,978 Statutory Reserves Reserve for Financial Instrument Transaction Liabilities 2,291 2,005 20,420 Total Statutory Reserves 2,291 2,005 20,420 Total Liabilities ¥9,725,551 ¥10,724,190 $86,680,497 250 Non-Consolidated Financial Statements of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. and Three Subsidiaries Mizuho Securities Co., Ltd. Non-Consolidated Balance Sheet―(Continued) Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars As of March 31, 2017 2016 2017 Net Assets Shareholders' Equity Common Stock ¥125,167 ¥125,167 $1,115,573 Capital Surplus Additional Paid in Capital 285,831 285,831 2,547,517 Other Capital Surplus 95,817 95,817 853,993 Total Capital Surpluses 381,649 381,649 3,401,510 Retained Earnings Other Retained Earnings Retained Earnings Brought Forward 332,177 149,594 2,960,579 Total Retained Earnings 332,177 149,594 2,960,579 Total Shareholders’ Equity 838,993 656,411 7,477,662 Valuation and Translation Adjustments Net Unrealized Gains on (Operating) Investment Securities, net of Tax 22,719 21,626 202,493 Net Deferred Gains or Losses on Hedges, net of Tax (8,831) (18,982) (78,714) Total Valuation and Translation Adjustments 13,887 2,644 123,779 Total Net Assets 852,881 659,056 7,601,441 Total Liabilities and Net Assets ¥10,578,433 ¥11,383,246 $94,281,938 Notes: 1. The amounts indicated in millions of yen are rounded down by truncating the figures below one million. 2. The rate of ¥112.20=US$1.00, the foreign exchange rate on March 31, 2017, has been used for translation. 251 Non-Consolidated Statement of Income Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars For the Fiscal Years ended March 31, 2017 2016 2017 Operating Revenues Commissions ¥149,114 ¥155,617 $1,329,002 Brokerage Commissions 26,284 30,728 234,262 Underwriting and Selling Fees, and Commissions from Solicitation to Qualifying Investors 34,848 27,693 310,590 Offering, Selling, and Other Commissions and Fees, and Commissions from Solicitation to Qualifying Investors 25,539 31,397 227,624 Other commissions and Fees 62,442 65,798 556,526 Net Gain on Trading 143,956 130,230 1,283,036 Net Gain (loss) on Operating Investment Securities 2,299 4,604 20,494 Interest and Dividend Income 45,756 29,402 407,811 Total Operating Revenues 341,126 319,855 3,040,343 Interest Expenses 37,915 27,552 337,924 Net Operating Revenues 303,211 292,303 2,702,419 Selling, General and Administrative Expenses 239,455 231,895 2,134,186 Transaction-related Expenses 51,513 51,176 459,125 Personnel Expenses 87,966 85,135 784,014 Real Estate Expenses 27,237 26,042 242,762 Administrative Expenses 49,355 47,955 439,886 Depreciation and Amortization 17,143 14,929 152,795 Taxes and Dues 2,801 3,386 24,970 Provision of Allowance for Doubtful Accounts (40) (426) (363) Other 3,477 3,695 30,997 Operating Income 63,755 60,407 568,233 Non-operating Income 7,920 8,055 70,594 Non-operating Expenses 1,487 1,357 13,254 Ordinary Income 70,189 67,105 625,573 Extraordinary gain 119,276 13,436 1,063,068 Gain on Sales of Noncurrent Assets 24 48 217 Gain on Sales of Investment Securities 977 565 8,711 Gain on Sales of Shares of Subsidiaries and Affiliates 118,274 ― 1,054,140 Indemnity Receipt from the Erroneous Stock Order ― 12,822 ― Extraordinary loss 2,554 2,464 22,765 Loss on Sales of Noncurrent Assets ― 8 ― Loss on Disposal of Noncurrent Assets 194 254 1,736 Loss on Sale of Investment Securities 40 26 359 Loss on Impairment of Investment Securities ― 0 ― Loss on Impairment of Investments in Subsidiaries and Affiliates ― 146 ― Loss on liquidation of Subsidiaries and Affiliates 1,129 ― 10,070 Loss on Impairment of Golf Club Membership 6 0 58 Impairment Losses 841 843 7,501 Head Office Transfer Cost ― 577 ― Cost Incurred in Opening of Joint Branches 55 192 497 Provision of Reserve for Financial Instruments Transaction 285 416 2,544 Liabilities Income before Income Taxes 186,911 78,077 1,665,876 Income Taxes – current 161 6,915 1,441 Income Taxes – deferred (13,968) 16,563 (124,498) Total Income Taxes (13,806) 23,479 (123,057) Net Income ¥200,718 ¥54,598 $1,788,933 Notes: 1. The amounts indicated in millions of yen are rounded down by truncating the figures below one million. 2. The rate of ¥112.20=US$1.00, the foreign exchange rate on March 31, 2017, has been used for translation. 252 253 Status of Capital Adequacy 255 Capital Adequacy Ratio Highlights 255 Capital adequacy ratio 257 Risk weighted assets 258 Status of Mizuho Financial Group’s Consolidated Capital Adequacy 258 Scope of consolidation 260 Composition of capital 275 Risk-based capital 278 Credit risk 294 Methods for credit risk mitigation 296 Counterparty risk in derivatives transactions and long-settlement transactions 298 Securitization exposure 314 Market risk 315 Operational risk 315 Equity exposure in banking book 318 Composition of Leverage Ratio 319 Indicators for assessing Global Systemically Important Banks (G-SIBs) 321 Status of Sound Management of Liquidity Risk 321 Liquidity Coverage Ratio 323 Status of Major Liquid Assets 323 Status of Major Funding 324 Compensation of directors, corporate auditors and employees 254 Status of Capital Adequacy Capital Adequacy Ratio Highlights The Basel Framework, based on the International Convergence of Capital Measurement and Capital Standards: A Revised Framework issued by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision, requires the disclosure of capital adequacy information to ensure the enhanced effectiveness of market discipline. Our disclosure is made under the Matters Separately Prescribed by the Commissioner of the Financial Services Agency Regarding Capital Adequacy Conditions, etc. pursuant to Article 19-2, Paragraph 1, Item 5, Subitem (d), etc. of the Ordinance for Enforcement of the Banking Law (Ministry of Finance Ordinance No. 10 of 1982) (the FSA Notice No. 7 of 2014, etc.). With respect to the calculation of capital adequacy ratio, we have applied the international standard and adopted (a) the advanced internal ratings-based approach as a method to calculate the amount of credit risk weighted assets and (b) the advanced measurement approach as a method to calculate the amount equivalent to the operational risk. ■ Capital adequacy ratio (1) Summary of capital adequacy ratio Mizuho Financial Group (Consolidated) (Billions of yen) As of March 31, 2017 As of March 31, 2016 Total capital ratio 16.28% 15.41% (International standard) Tier 1 capital ratio 13.30% 12.64% Common equity Tier 1 capital ratio 11.34% 10.50% Total capital ¥10,050.9 ¥9,638.6 Tier 1 capital 8,211.5 7,905.0 Common equity Tier 1 capital 7,001.6 6,566.4 Risk weighted assets ¥61,717.1 ¥62,531.1 Credit risk 56,060.0 57,588.4 Market risk 2,282.8 1,696.0 Operational risk 3,374.2 3,246.6 Mizuho Bank (Consolidated) (Billions of yen) As of March 31, 2017 As of March 31, 2016 Total capital ratio 16.20% 15.46% (International standard) Tier 1 capital ratio 13.34% 12.75% Common equity Tier 1 capital ratio 11.16% 10.81% Total capital ¥9,148.5 ¥8,780.2 Tier 1 capital 7,535.7 7,243.6 Common equity Tier 1 capital 6,304.0 6,142.2 Risk weighted assets ¥56,461.7 ¥56,771.0 Credit risk 52,656.4 53,581.0 Market risk 1,334.2 1,027.0 Operational risk 2,471.0 2,162.9 Mizuho Bank (Non-Consolidated) (Billions of yen) As of March 31, 2017 As of March 31, 2016 Total capital ratio 16.53% 15.50% (International standard) Tier 1 capital ratio 13.53% 12.66% Common equity Tier 1 capital ratio 11.20% 10.65% Total capital ¥8,938.2 ¥8,576.3 Tier 1 capital 7,316.2 7,004.0 Common equity Tier 1 capital 6,057.2 5,892.2 Risk weighted assets ¥54,052.6 ¥55,306.1 Credit risk 51,130.0 52,392.1 Market risk 876.4 1,017.8 Operational risk 2,046.2 1,896.1 255 Mizuho Trust & Banking (Consolidated) (Billions of yen) As of March 31, 2017 As of March 31, 2016 Total capital ratio 19.47% 19.52% (International standard) Tier 1 capital ratio 18.73% 18.21% Common equity Tier 1 capital ratio 18.73% 18.21% Total capital ¥484.9 ¥472.1 Tier 1 capital 466.4 440.4 Common equity Tier 1 capital 466.4 440.4 Risk weighted assets ¥2,489.5 ¥2,418.1 Credit risk 2,211.2 2,141.9 Market risk 16.7 15.1 Operational risk 261.4 261.0 Mizuho Trust & Banking (Non-consolidated) (Billions of yen) As of March 31, 2017 As of March 31, 2016 Total capital ratio 19.70% 19.80% (International standard) Tier 1 capital ratio 18.98% 18.52% Common equity Tier 1 capital ratio 18.98% 18.52% Total capital ¥492.6 ¥479.5 Tier 1 capital 474.5 448.4 Common equity Tier 1 capital 474.5 448.4 Risk weighted assets ¥2,500.1 ¥2,421.0 Credit risk 2,261.4 2,192.2 Market risk 14.5 12.0 Operational risk 224.0 216.7 256 Status of Capital Adequacy Capital Adequacy Ratio Highlights ■ Risk weighted assets (1) Credit risk weighted assets by asset class and ratings segment Mizuho Financial Group (Consolidated) (Billions of yen) As of March 31, 2017 As of March 31, 2016 Credit risk Credit risk weighted Risk weighted Risk EAD assets Weight(%) EAD assets Weight(%) Internal ratings-based approach ¥189,852.0 ¥50,084.2 ¥26.38 ¥190,100.2 ¥50,922.7 ¥26.78 Corporate, etc. 164,623.5 31,312.3 19.02 164,945.4 32,874.3 19.93 Corporate (except specialized 78,222.1 28,727.3 36.72 77,953.6 29,559.7 37.91 lending) Ratings A1-B2 55,538.0 14,486.4 26.08 54,868.1 14,961.2 27.26 Ratings C1-D3 20,306.6 12,002.9 59.10 20,947.9 12,694.1 60.59 Ratings E1-E2 1,373.3 1,885.3 137.27 1,179.1 1,575.6 133.62 Ratings E2R-H1 1,004.0 352.5 35.11 958.4 328.7 34.29 Sovereign 80,314.2 1,023.3 1.27 79,893.0 1,278.0 1.59 Ratings A1-B2 80,165.1 928.3 1.15 79,739.7 1,184.1 1.48 Ratings C1-D3 148.6 94.3 63.49 152.6 92.6 60.72 Ratings E1-E2 0.3 0.6 164.61 0.6 1.2 186.86 Ratings E2R-H1 0.0 0.0 40.50 0.0 0.0 62.73 Bank 5,921.5 1,375.8 23.23 6,923.3 1,817.2 26.24 Ratings A1-B2 5,337.6 1,036.1 19.41 6,198.3 1,369.0 22.08 Ratings C1-D3 582.4 339.2 58.25 718.6 437.6 60.90 Ratings E1-E2 0.0 0.0 184.04 4.4 9.9 225.53 Ratings E2R-H1 1.4 0.4 29.54 1.9 0.5 30.21 Specialized lending 165.6 185.8 112.16 175.2 219.2 125.09 Retail 12,235.5 4,541.9 37.12 12,942.5 4,767.1 36.83 Residential mortgage 9,388.0 3,096.3 32.98 9,855.1 3,164.6 32.11 Qualifying revolving loan 629.2 415.6 66.05 562.9 362.7 64.44 Other retail 2,218.2 1,029.9 46.42 2,524.5 1,239.6 49.10 Equities 4,973.3 8,642.9 173.78 4,460.7 7,347.2 164.70 PD/LGD approach 4,180.1 6,068.0 145.16 3,901.2 5,524.7 141.61 Market-based approach 793.1 2,574.9 324.64 559.4 1,822.4 325.76 Regarded-method exposure 1,744.0 3,341.4 191.58 1,750.8 3,887.1 222.02 Securitizations 4,009.5 328.9 8.20 3,803.3 291.1 7.65 Others 2,265.9 1,916.6 84.58 2,197.4 1,755.6 79.89 Standardized approach ¥17,523.9 ¥3,508.0 ¥20.01 ¥10,840.7 ¥3,628.0 ¥33.46 CVA risk n.a. ¥2,272.3 n.a. n.a. ¥2,823.3 n.a. Central counterparty-related n.a. ¥195.4 n.a. n.a. ¥214.4 n.a. Total ¥207,375.9 ¥56,060.0 ¥27.03 ¥200,940.9 ¥57,588.4 ¥28.65 Notes: 1. Corporate does not include specialized lending exposure under supervisory slotting criteria. 2. Specialized lending is specialized lending exposure under supervisory slotting criteria. <Analysis> Risk assets decreased due to changes in the EAD calculation method for derivative transactions. 257 Status of Capital Adequacy Status of Mizuho Financial Group’s Consolidated Capital Adequacy ■ Scope of consolidation (1) Scope of consolidation for calculating consolidated capital adequacy ratio (a) Difference from the companies included in the scope of consolidation based on consolidation rules for preparation of consolidated financial statements (the scope of accounting consolidation ) None as of March 31, 2017 and 2016. (b) Number of consolidated subsidiaries As of March 31, 2017 As of March 31, 2016 Consolidated subsidiaries 139 143 Our major consolidated subsidiaries are Mizuho Bank, Ltd., Mizuho Trust & Banking Co., Ltd. and Mizuho Securities Co., Ltd. The following table sets forth information with respect to our principal consolidated subsidiaries as of March 31, 2017: Proportion of Proportion of Country of ownership voting Name organization Main business interest (%) interest (%) Domestic Mizuho Bank, Ltd. ...........................................Japan Banking 100.0% 100.0% Mizuho Trust & Banking Co., Ltd. ...................Japan Trust and banking 100.0 100.0 Mizuho Securities Co., Ltd. .............................Japan Securities 95.8 95.8 Mizuho Research Institute Ltd. .......................Japan Research and 98.6 98.6 consulting Mizuho Information & Research Institute Inc. . Japan Information technology 91.5 91.5 Asset Management One Co., Ltd. .................. Japan Investment 70.0 51.0 management Trust & Custody Services Bank, Ltd. .............. Japan Trust and banking 54.0 54.0 Mizuho Private Wealth Management Co., Ltd. Japan Consulting 100.0 100.0 Mizuho Credit Guarantee Co., Ltd. .................Japan Credit guarantee 100.0 100.0 Mizuho Realty Co., Ltd. .................................. Japan Real estate agency 100.0 100.0 Mizuho Factors, Limited ..................................Japan Factoring 100.0 100.0 Simplex Investment Advisors Inc. ...................Japan Holding company 100.0 100.0 Defined Contribution Plan Services Co., Ltd. ..Japan Pension plan60.0 60.0 related business Mizuho-DL Financial Technology Co., Ltd. .....Japan Application and 60.0 60.0 Sophistication of Financial Technology UC Card Co., Ltd. ...........................................Japan Credit card 51.0 51.0 Mizuho Trust Systems Company, Limited. ..... Japan Subcontracted 50.0 50.0 calculation services, software development Mizuho Capital Co., Ltd. ..................................Japan Venture capital 50.0 50.0 258 Status of Capital Adequacy Status of Mizuho Financial Group’s Consolidated Capital Adequacy Proportion of Proportion of Country of ownership voting Name organization Main business interest (%) interest (%) Overseas Mizuho Americas LLC .....................................U.S.A. Holding company 100.0 100.0 Mizuho Bank (China), Ltd. .............................. China Banking 100.0 100.0 Mizuho International plc ..................................U.K. Securities and banking 100.0 100.0 Mizuho Securities Asia Limited .......................China Securities 100.0 100.0 Banco Mizuho do Brasil S.A. .......................... Brazil Banking 100.0 100.0 Mizuho Securities USA LLC ............................U.S.A. Securities 100.0 100.0 Mizuho Bank Europe N.V. ...............................Netherlands Banking and securities 100.0 100.0 Mizuho Trust & Banking (Luxembourg) S.A. ...Luxembourg Trust and banking 100.0 100.0 Mizuho Bank (USA) ........................................U.S.A. Banking 100.0 100.0 Mizuho Bank (Switzerland) Ltd ....................... Switzerland Trust and banking 100.0 100.0 Mizuho Trust & Banking Co. (USA) ................ U.S.A. Trust and banking 100.0 100.0 Mizuho Capital Markets Corporation ...............U.S.A. Derivatives 100.0 100.0 PT. Bank Mizuho Indonesia ............................Indonesia Banking 99.0 99.0 (c) Corporations providing financial services for which Article 9 of the FSA Notice No. 20 is applicable None as of March 31, 2017 and 2016. (d) Companies that are in the bank holding company’s corporate group but not included in the scope of accounting consolidation and companies that are not in the bank holding company’s corporate group but included in the scope of accounting consolidation None as of March 31, 2017 and 2016. (e) Restrictions on transfer of funds or capital within the bank holding company’s corporate group None as of March 31, 2017 and 2016. (f) Names of any other financial institutions, etc., classified as subsidiaries or other members of the bank holding company that are deficient in regulatory capital None as of March 31, 2017 and 2016. 259 ■ Composition of capital (2) Composition of capital, etc. (a) Composition of capital disclosure (International standard) (Millions of yen) As of March 31, 2017 As of March 31, 2016 Amounts Amounts excluded excluded Basel III under under template transitional transitional arrangements arrangements Common equity Tier 1 capital: instruments and reserves (1) Directly issued qualifying common share 1a+2-1c-26 capital plus related stock surplus and retained ¥6,905,510 ¥/ ¥6,365,502 ¥/ earnings 1a of which: capital and stock surplus 3,390,691 / 3,267,031 / 2 of which: retained earnings 3,614,841 / 3,196,908 / 1c of which: treasury stock (-) 4,849 / 3,609 / of which: national specific regulatory 26 95,173 / 94,827 / adjustments (earnings to be distributed) (-) of which: other than above / / 1b Subscription rights to common shares 1,754 / 2,762 / Accumulated other comprehensive income and 3 1,216,780 304,195 964,710 643,140 other disclosed reserves Common share capital issued by subsidiaries 5 and held by third parties (amount allowed in 14,537 / 14,749 / group CET1) Total of items included in common equity Tier 1 capital: instruments and reserves subject to 22,881 / 32,465 / phase-out arrangements of which: amount allowed in group CET1 capital subject to phase-out arrangements 22,881 / 32,465 / on common share capital issued by subsidiaries and held by third parties Common equity Tier 1 capital: 6 (A) 8,161,464 / 7,380,191 / instruments and reserves Common equity Tier 1 capital: regulatory adjustments (2) Total intangible assets (net of related tax 8+9 liability, excluding those relating to mortgage 619,806 154,951 361,571 241,047 servicing rights) of which: goodwill (net of related tax liability, 8 79,695 19,923 35,452 23,635 including those equivalent) of which: other intangibles other than 9 goodwill and mortgage servicing rights (net 540,111 135,027 326,118 217,412 of related tax liability) Deferred tax assets that rely on future profitability excluding those arising from 10 36,601 9,150 6,614 4,409 temporary differences (net of related tax liability) Deferred gains or losses on derivatives under 11 ¥8,137 ¥2,034 ¥99,158 ¥66,105 hedge accounting 260 Status of Capital Adequacy Status of Mizuho Financial Group’s Consolidated Capital Adequacy (a) Composition of capital disclosure (International standard)-(Continued) (Millions of yen) As of March 31, 2017 As of March 31, 2016 Amounts Amounts excluded excluded Basel III under under template transitional transitional arrangements arrangements Shortfall of eligible provisions to expected 12 ¥9,381 ¥2,352 ¥18,041 ¥12,000 losses 13 Securitization gain on sale 52 13 52 35 Gains and losses due to changes in own credit 14 593 148 1,419 946 risk on fair valued liabilities 15 Net defined benefit asset 443,158 110,789 269,400 179,600 Investments in own shares (excluding those 16 5,473 1,368 1,338 892 reported in the net assets section) 17 Reciprocal cross-holdings in common equity Investments in the capital of banking, financial and insurance entities that are outside the scope of regulatory consolidation, net of 18 36,595 9,148 56,105 37,403 eligible short positions, where the bank does not own more than 10% of the issued share capital (amount above the 10% threshold) Amount exceeding the 10% threshold on 19+20+21 specified items of which: significant investments in the 19 common stock of financials 20 of which: mortgage servicing rights of which: deferred tax assets arising from 21 temporary differences (net of related tax liability) Amount exceeding the 15% threshold on 22 specified items of which: significant investments in the 23 common stock of financials 24 of which: mortgage servicing rights of which: deferred tax assets arising from 25 temporary differences (net of related tax liability) Regulatory adjustments applied to common 27 equity Tier 1 due to insufficient additional Tier / / 1 and Tier 2 to cover deductions Common equity Tier 1 capital: 28 (B) 1,159,800 / 813,702 / regulatory adjustments Common equity Tier 1 capital (CET1) Common equity Tier 1 capital (CET1) 29 (C) ¥7,001,664 ¥/ ¥6,566,488 ¥/ ((A)-(B)) 261 (a) Composition of capital disclosure (International standard)-(Continued) (Millions of yen) As of March 31, 2017 As of March 31, 2016 Amounts Amounts excluded excluded Basel III under under template transitional transitional arrangements arrangements Additional Tier 1 capital: instruments (3) Directly issued qualifying additional Tier 1 instruments plus related stock surplus of 30 31a ¥¥/ ¥¥/ which: classified as equity under applicable accounting standards and the breakdown Subscription rights to additional Tier 1 30 31b / / instruments Directly issued qualifying additional Tier 1 instruments plus related stock surplus of 30 32 760,000 / 300,000 / which: classified as liabilities under applicable accounting standards Qualifying additional Tier 1 instruments plus 30 related stock surplus issued by special / / purpose vehicles and other equivalent entities Additional Tier 1 instruments issued by 34-35 subsidiaries and held by third parties (amount 31,786 / 30,843 / allowed in group AT1) Eligible Tier 1 capital instruments subject to 33+35 phase-out arrangements included in additional 577,500 / 1,144,037 / Tier 1 capital: instruments of which: directly issued capital instruments 33 577,500 / 1,144,037 / subject to phase out from additional Tier 1 of which: instruments issued by subsidiaries 35 / / subject to phase out Total of items included in additional Tier 1 capital: instruments subject to phase-out (13,931) / (21,475) / arrangements of which: foreign currency translation (13,931) / (21,475) / adjustments 36 Additional Tier 1 capital: instruments (D) 1,355,354 / 1,453,405 / Additional Tier 1 capital: regulatory adjustments Investments in own additional Tier 1 37 instruments Reciprocal cross-holdings in additional Tier 1 38 ¥¥¥¥instruments 262 Status of Capital Adequacy Status of Mizuho Financial Group’s Consolidated Capital Adequacy (a) Composition of capital disclosure (International standard)-(Continued) (Millions of yen) As of March 31, 2017 As of March 31, 2016 Amounts Amounts excluded excluded Basel III under under template transitional transitional arrangements arrangements Investments in the capital of banking, financial and insurance entities that are outside the scope of regulatory consolidation, net of 39 eligible short positions, where the bank does ¥38 ¥9 ¥17 ¥11 not own more than 10% of the issued common share capital of the entity (amount above 10% threshold) Significant investments in the capital of banking, financial and insurance entities that 40 117,600 29,400 88,606 59,071 are outside the scope of regulatory consolidation (net of eligible short positions) Total of items included in additional Tier 1 capital: regulatory adjustments subject to 27,858 / 26,176 / phase-out arrangements of which: goodwill equivalent 14,954 / 9,376 / of which: intangible fixed assets recognized 11,717 / 10,750 / as a result of a merger of which: capital increase due to 13 / 35 / securitization transactions of which: 50% of excess of expected losses relative to eligible reserves by banks 1,172 / 6,013 / adopting internal ratings-based approach Regulatory adjustments applied to additional 42 Tier 1 due to insufficient Tier 2 to cover / / deductions Additional Tier 1 capital: regulatory 43 (E) 145,496 / 114,800 / adjustments Additional Tier 1 capital (AT1) 44 Additional Tier 1 capital ((D)-(E)) (F) 1,209,858 / 1,338,605 / Tier 1 capital (T1 = CET1 + AT1) Tier 1 capital (T1 = CET1 + AT1) 45 (G) 8,211,522 / 7,905,093 / ((C)+(F)) Tier 2 capital: instruments and provisions (4) Directly issued qualifying Tier 2 instruments plus related stock surplus of which: classified 46 / / as equity under applicable accounting standards and the breakdown 46 Subscription rights to Tier 2 instruments ¥¥/ ¥¥/ 263 (a) Composition of capital disclosure (International standard)-(Continued) (Millions of yen) As of March 31, 2017 As of March 31, 2016 Amounts Amounts excluded excluded Basel III under under template transitional transitional arrangements arrangements Directly issued qualifying Tier 2 instruments plus related stock surplus of which: classified 46 ¥684,150 ¥/ ¥324,517 ¥/ as liabilities under applicable accounting standards Tier 2 instruments plus related stock surplus 46 issued by special purpose vehicles and other 168,300 / 169,035 / equivalent entities Tier 2 instruments issued by subsidiaries and 48-49 held by third parties (amount allowed in group 10,574 / 10,269 / Tier 2) Eligible Tier 2 capital instruments subject to 47+49 phase-out arrangements included in Tier 2: 842,133 / 962,928 / instruments and provisions of which: directly issued capital instruments 47 168,022 / 169,035 / subject to phase out from Tier 2 of which: instruments issued by subsidiaries 49 674,110 / 793,893 / subject to phase out Total of general allowance for loan losses and 50 6,510 / 6,031 / eligible provisions included in Tier 2 50a of which: general allowance for loan losses 6,510 / 6,031 / 50b of which: eligible provisions / / Total of items included in Tier 2 capital: instruments and provisions subject to phase180,319 / 374,012 / out arrangements of which: 45% of unrealized gains on other 161,221 / 335,046 / securities of which: 45% of revaluation reserve for land 19,097 / 38,965 / Tier 2 capital: instruments and 51 (H) 1,891,987 / 1,846,795 / provisions Tier 2 capital: regulatory adjustments 52 Investments in own Tier 2 instruments 409 102 53 Reciprocal cross-holdings in Tier 2 instruments Investments in the capital of banking, financial and insurance entities that are outside the scope of regulatory consolidation, net of 54 eligible short positions, where the bank does ¥16,413 ¥4,103 ¥33,374 ¥22,249 not own more than 10% of the issued common share capital of the entity (amount above the 10% threshold) 264 Status of Capital Adequacy Status of Mizuho Financial Group’s Consolidated Capital Adequacy (a) Composition of capital disclosure (International standard)-(Continued) (Millions of yen) As of March 31, 2017 As of March 31, 2016 Amounts Amounts excluded excluded Basel III under under template transitional transitional arrangements arrangements Significant investments in the capital banking, financial and insurance entities that are outside 55 ¥¥¥¥the scope of regulatory consolidation (net of eligible short positions) Total of items included in Tier 2 capital: regulatory adjustments subject to phase-out 35,732 / 79,873 / arrangements of which: investments in the capital 34,559 / 73,859 / banking, financial and insurance entities of which: 50% of excess of expected losses relative to eligible reserves by banks 1,172 / 6,013 / adopting internal ratings-based approach 57 Tier 2 capital: regulatory adjustments (I) 52,555 / 113,248 / Tier 2 capital (T2) 58 Tier 2 capital (T2) ((H)-(I)) (J) 1,839,431 / 1,733,547 / Total capital (TC = T1 + T2) 59 Total capital (TC = T1 + T2) ((G)+(J)) (K) 10,050,953 / 9,638,641 / Risk weighted assets (5) Total of items included in risk weighted assets 260,992 / 480,460 / subject to phase-out arrangements of which: intangible assets (net of related tax liability, excluding those relating to 123,310 / 206,661 / mortgage servicing rights) of which: deferred tax assets that rely on future profitability excluding those arising 9,150 / 4,409 / from temporary differences (net of related tax liability) of which: net defined benefit asset 110,789 / 179,600 / of which: investments in the capital 17,742 / 89,788 / banking, financial and insurance entities 60 Risk weighted assets (L) ¥61,717,158 ¥/ ¥62,531,174 ¥/ Capital ratio (consolidated) Common equity Tier 1 capital ratio 61 11.34% / 10.50% / (consolidated) ((C)/(L)) 265 (a) Composition of capital disclosure (International standard)-(Continued) (Millions of yen) As of March 31, 2017 As of March 31, 2016 Amounts Amounts excluded excluded Basel III under under template transitional transitional arrangements arrangements 62 Tier 1 capital ratio (consolidated) ((G)/(L)) 13.30% / 12.64% / 63 Total capital ratio (consolidated) ((K)/(L)) 16.28% / 15.41% / Regulatory adjustments (6) Non-significant investments in the capital of 72 other financials that are below the thresholds ¥703,872 ¥/ ¥672,811 ¥/ for deduction (before risk weighting) Significant investments in the common stock of 73 financials that are below the thresholds for 118,358 / 112,376 / deduction (before risk weighting) Mortgage servicing rights that are below the 74 / / thresholds for deduction (before risk weighting) Deferred tax assets arising from temporary 75 differences that are below the thresholds for 182,672 / 75,828 / deduction (before risk weighting) Provisions included in Tier 2 capital: instruments and provisions (7) 76 Provisions (general allowance for loan losses) 6,510 / 6,031 / Cap on inclusion of provisions (general 77 46,343 / 47,342 / allowance for loan losses) Provisions eligible for inclusion in Tier 2 in respect of exposures subject to internal ratings78 / / based approach (prior to application of cap) (if the amount is negative, report as nil ) Cap for inclusion of provisions in Tier 2 under 79 299,309 / 304,580 / internal ratings-based approach Capital instruments subject to phase-out arrangements (8) Current cap on AT1 instruments subject to 82 1,041,569 / 1,249,883 / phase-out arrangements Amount excluded from AT1 due to cap (excess 83 over cap after redemptions and maturities) (if / / the amount is negative, report as nil ) Current cap on T2 instruments subject to 84 843,530 / 1,012,236 / phase-out arrangements Amount excluded from T2 due to cap (excess 85 over cap after redemptions and maturities) (if ¥¥/ ¥¥/ the amount is negative, report as nil ) Notes: 1. The above figures are calculated based on International standard applied on a consolidated basis under the FSA Notice No. 20. 2. In calculating the consolidated capital adequacy ratio, we underwent an examination following the procedures agreed with Ernst & Young ShinNihon LLC, on the basis of Treatment in implementing examination by agreed-upon procedures for calculating capital adequacy ratio (Industry Committee Practical Guideline No. 30 of the Japanese Institute of Certified Public Accountants). Note that this is not a part of the accounting audit performed on our consolidated financial statements. This consists of an examination under agreed-upon procedures performed by Ernst & Young ShinNihon LLC on a portion of the internal control structure concerning the calculation of the capital adequacy ratio and a report of the results to us. As such, they do not represent an opinion regarding the capital adequacy ratio itself nor the internal controls related to the calculation of the capital adequacy ratio. 266 Status of Capital Adequacy Status of Mizuho Financial Group’s Consolidated Capital Adequacy (b) Explanation of (a) Composition of capital disclosure Reconciliation between Consolidated balance sheet and items of consolidated balance sheet and Composition of capital disclosure (Millions of yen) Reference # of Consolidated balance sheet as in published Cross-reference Basel III template financial statements Items to Appended under the template Composition of As of March 31, 2017 As of March 31, 2016 capital disclosure (Assets) Cash and due from banks ¥47,129,583 ¥36,315,471 Call loans and bills purchased 1,035,746 893,545 Receivables under resale 8,967,777 7,805,798 agreements Guarantee deposits paid under 3,350,051 3,407,390 securities borrowing transactions Other debt purchased 2,745,204 2,979,797 Trading assets 10,361,787 13,004,522 6-a Money held in trust 247,583 175,638 Securities 32,353,158 39,505,971 2-b, 6-b Loans and bills discounted 78,337,793 73,708,884 6-c Foreign exchange assets 1,828,782 1,447,743 Derivatives other than for trading 2,170,750 3,157,752 6-d assets Other assets 4,180,339 4,144,131 6-e Tangible fixed assets 1,136,329 1,085,791 Intangible fixed assets 1,045,486 804,567 2-a Net defined benefit asset 797,762 646,428 3 Deferred tax assets 56,066 36,517 4-a Customers' liabilities for acceptances 5,273,581 4,798,158 and guarantees Reserves for possible losses on (509,175) (459,531) loans Total assets ¥200,508,610 ¥193,458,580 (Liabilities) Deposits ¥120,045,217 ¥105,629,071 Negotiable certificates of deposit 10,631,277 11,827,533 Call money and bills sold 1,255,172 2,521,008 Payables under repurchase 17,969,753 16,833,346 agreements Guarantee deposits received under 1,679,300 2,608,971 securities lending transactions Commercial paper 789,705 1,010,139 Trading liabilities 7,923,285 10,276,133 6-f Borrowed money 6,307,230 7,503,543 8-a Foreign exchange liabilities 526,053 492,473 Short-term bonds 226,348 648,381 Bonds and notes 7,564,535 6,120,928 8-b 267 (b) Explanation of (a) Composition of capital disclosure-(Continued) (Millions of yen) Reference # of Consolidated balance sheet as in published Cross-reference Basel III template financial statements Items to Appended under the template Composition of As of March 31, 2017 As of March 31, 2016 capital disclosure Due to trust accounts 4,784,077 5,067,490 Derivatives other than for trading 1,784,857 2,571,597 6-g liabilities Other liabilities 3,883,168 5,532,596 Reserve for bonus payments 67,633 62,171 Reserve for variable compensation 3,018 2,836 Net defined benefit liability 55,236 51,514 Reserve for director and corporate 1,327 1,685 auditor retirement benefits Reserve for possible losses on sales 298 267 of loans Reserve for contingencies 5,680 5,271 Reserve for reimbursement of 19,072 16,154 deposits Reserve for reimbursement of 32,720 39,245 debentures Reserves under special laws 2,309 2,024 Deferred tax liabilities 337,800 414,799 4-b Deferred tax liabilities for revaluation 66,585 67,991 4-c reserve for land Acceptances and guarantees 5,273,581 4,798,158 Total liabilities ¥191,235,249 ¥184,105,335 (Net assets) Common stock and preferred stock 2,256,275 2,255,790 1-a Capital surplus 1,134,416 1,110,164 1-b Retained earnings 3,615,449 3,197,616 1-c Treasury stock (4,849) (3,609) 1-d Total shareholders' equity ¥7,001,291 ¥6,559,962 Net unrealized gains (losses) on 1,289,985 1,296,039 other securities Deferred gains or losses on hedges 10,172 165,264 5 Revaluation reserve for land 145,609 148,483 Foreign currency translation (69,657) (53,689) adjustments Remeasurements of defined benefit 144,866 51,752 plans Total accumulated other ¥1,520,976 ¥1,607,851 3 comprehensive income Stock acquisition rights 1,754 2,762 1b Non-Controlling interests 749,339 1,182,668 7 Total net assets ¥9,273,361 ¥9,353,244 Total liabilities and net assets ¥200,508,610 ¥193,458,580 Note: The regulatory scope of consolidation is the same as the accounting scope of consolidation. 268 Status of Capital Adequacy Status of Mizuho Financial Group’s Consolidated Capital Adequacy Appended template 1. Shareholders' equity (1) Consolidated balance sheet (Millions of yen) As of March As of March Ref. Consolidated balance sheet items Remarks 31, 2017 31, 2016 Including eligible Tier 1 capital instruments subject to phase1-a Common stock and preferred stock ¥2,256,275 ¥2,255,790 out arrangements (for the balance as of March 31, 2016) Including eligible Tier 1 capital instruments subject to phase1-b Capital surplus 1,134,416 1,110,164 out arrangements (for the balance as of March 31, 2016) 1-c Retained earnings 3,615,449 3,197,616 1-d Treasury stock (4,849) (3,609) Total shareholders' equity ¥7,001,291 ¥6,559,962 (2) Composition of capital (Millions of yen) Basel III As of March As of March Composition of capital disclosure Remarks template 31, 2017 31, 2016 Shareholders' equity Directly issued qualifying common attributable to common shares share capital plus related stock ¥7,000,683 ¥6,460,330 (before adjusting national surplus and retained earnings specific regulatory adjustments (earnings to be distributed)) 1a of which: capital and stock surplus 3,390,691 3,267,031 2 of which: retained earnings 3,614,841 3,196,908 1c of which: treasury stock (-) 4,849 3,609 of which: other than above Directly issued qualifying additional Shareholders' equity Tier 1 instruments plus related stock attributable to preferred shares 31a surplus of which: classified as equity with a loss absorbency clause under applicable accounting standards upon entering into effectively and the breakdown bankruptcy 269 2. Intangible fixed assets (1) Consolidated balance sheet (Millions of yen) As of March As of March Ref. Consolidated balance sheet items Remarks 31, 2017 31, 2016 2-a Intangible fixed assets ¥1,045,486 ¥804,567 2-b Securities 32,353,158 39,505,971 of which: share of goodwill of Share of goodwill of companies companies accounted for using the 24,846 35,646 accounted for using the equity equity method method Income taxes related to above ¥(295,574) ¥(237,595) (2) Composition of capital (Millions of yen) Basel III As of March As of March Composition of capital disclosure Remarks template 31, 2017 31, 2016 Goodwill (net of related tax liability, 8 ¥99,619 ¥59,087 including those equivalent) Other intangibles other than goodwill 9 and mortgage servicing rights (net of 675,139 543,531 Software and other related tax liability) Mortgage servicing rights (net of related tax liability) Amount exceeding the 10% 20 threshold on specified items Amount exceeding the 15% 24 threshold on specified items Mortgage servicing rights that are 74 below the thresholds for deduction (before risk weighting) 3. Net defined benefit asset (1) Consolidated balance sheet (Millions of yen) As of March As of March Ref. Consolidated balance sheet items Remarks 31, 2017 31, 2016 3 Net defined benefit asset ¥797,762 ¥646,428 Income taxes related to above ¥(243,814) ¥(197,428) (2) Composition of capital (Millions of yen) Basel III As of March As of March Composition of capital disclosure Remarks template 31, 2017 31, 2016 15 Net defined benefit asset ¥553,947 ¥449,000 270 Status of Capital Adequacy Status of Mizuho Financial Group’s Consolidated Capital Adequacy 4. Deferred tax assets (1) Consolidated balance sheet (Millions of yen) As of March As of March Ref. Consolidated balance sheet items Remarks 31, 2017 31, 2016 4-a Deferred tax assets ¥56,066 ¥36,517 4-b Deferred tax liabilities 337,800 414,799 Deferred tax liabilities for revaluation 4-c 66,585 67,991 reserve for land Tax effects on intangible fixed assets ¥295,574 ¥237,595 Tax effects on net defined benefit asset 243,814 197,428 (2) Composition of capital (Millions of yen) Basel III As of March As of March Composition of capital disclosure Remarks template 31, 2017 31, 2016 This item does not agree with Deferred tax assets that rely on future the amount reported on the profitability excluding those arising 10 ¥45,751 ¥11,024 consolidated balance sheet from temporary differences (net of due to offsetting of assets and related tax liability) liabilities. This item does not agree with Deferred tax assets that rely on future the amount reported on the profitability arising from temporary 182,672 75,828 consolidated balance sheet differences (net of related tax liability) due to offsetting of assets and liabilities. Amount exceeding the 10% 21 threshold on specified items Amount exceeding the 15% 25 threshold on specified items Deferred tax assets arising from temporary differences that are 75 182,672 75,828 below the thresholds for deduction (before risk weighting) 271 5. Deferred gains or losses on derivatives under hedge accounting (1) Consolidated balance sheet (Millions of yen) As of March As of March Ref. Consolidated balance sheet items Remarks 31, 2017 31, 2016 5 Deferred gains or losses on hedges ¥10,172 ¥165,264 (2) Composition of capital (Millions of yen) Basel III As of March As of March Composition of capital disclosure Remarks template 31, 2017 31, 2016 Deferred gains or losses on 11 ¥10,172 ¥165,264 derivatives under hedge accounting 6. Items associated with investments in the capital of financial institutions (1) Consolidated balance sheet (Millions of yen) As of March As of March Ref. Consolidated balance sheet items Remarks 31, 2017 31, 2016 Including trading account 6-a Trading assets ¥10,361,787 ¥13,004,522 securities and derivatives for trading assets 6-b Securities 32,353,158 39,505,971 6-c Loans and bills discounted 78,337,793 73,708,884 Including subordinated loans Derivatives other than for trading 6-d 2,170,750 3,157,752 assets 6-e Other assets 4,180,339 4,144,131 Including money invested Including trading account 6-f Trading liabilities 7,923,285 10,276,133 securities sold Derivatives other than for trading 6-g 1,784,857 2,571,597 liabilities 272 Status of Capital Adequacy Status of Mizuho Financial Group’s Consolidated Capital Adequacy (2) Composition of capital (Millions of yen) Basel III As of March As of March Composition of capital disclosure Remarks template 31, 2017 31, 2016 Investments in own capital instruments ¥7,353 ¥2,231 16 Common equity Tier 1 capital 6,842 2,231 37 Additional Tier 1 capital 52 Tier 2 capital 511 Reciprocal cross-holdings in the capital of banking, financial and insurance entities 17 Common equity Tier 1 capital 38 Additional Tier 1 capital 53 Tier 2 capital Investments in the capital of banking, financial and insurance entities that are outside the scope of regulatory consolidation, net of eligible short 770,182 821,973 positions, where the bank does not own more than 10% of the issued share capital (amount above 10% threshold) 18 Common equity Tier 1 capital 45,743 93,508 39 Additional Tier 1 capital 48 28 54 Tier 2 capital 20,517 55,624 Non-significant investments in the capital of other financials that are 72 703,872 672,811 below the thresholds for deduction (before risk weighting) Significant investments in the capital of banking, financial and insurance entities that are outside the scope of 265,358 260,053 regulatory consolidation, net of eligible short positions Amount exceeding the 10% 19 threshold on specified items Amount exceeding the 15% 23 threshold on specified items 40 Additional Tier 1 capital 147,000 147,677 55 Tier 2 capital Significant investments in the common stock of financials that are 73 118,358 112,376 below the thresholds for deduction (before risk weighting) 273 7. Non-Controlling interests (1) Consolidated balance sheet (Millions of yen) As of March As of March Ref. Consolidated balance sheet items Remarks 31, 2017 31, 2016 7 Non-Controlling interests ¥749,339 ¥1,182,668 (2) Composition of capital (Millions of yen) Basel III As of March As of March Composition of capital disclosure Remarks template 31, 2017 31, 2016 Common share capital issued by After reflecting amounts eligible 5 subsidiaries and held by third parties ¥14,537 ¥14,749 for inclusion (non-controlling (amount allowed in group CET1) interest after adjustments) Qualifying additional Tier 1 After reflecting amounts eligible instruments plus related stock surplus 30-31ab-32 for inclusion (non-controlling issued by special purpose vehicles interest after adjustments) and other equivalent entities Additional Tier 1 instruments issued by After reflecting amounts eligible 34-35 subsidiaries and held by third parties 31,786 30,843 for inclusion (non-controlling (amount allowed in group AT1) interest after adjustments) Tier 2 instruments plus related stock After reflecting amounts eligible 46 surplus issued by special purpose 168,300 169,035 for inclusion (non-controlling vehicles and other equivalent entities interest after adjustments) Tier 2 instruments issued by After reflecting amounts eligible 48-49 subsidiaries and held by third parties 10,574 10,269 for inclusion (non-controlling (amount allowed in group Tier 2) interest after adjustments) 8. Other capital instruments (1) Consolidated balance sheet (Millions of yen) As of March As of March Ref. Consolidated balance sheet items Remarks 31, 2017 31, 2016 8-a Borrowed money ¥6,307,230 ¥7,503,543 8-b Bonds and notes 7,564,535 6,120,928 Total ¥13,871,765 ¥13,624,471 274 Status of Capital Adequacy Status of Mizuho Financial Group’s Consolidated Capital Adequacy (2) Composition of capital (Millions of yen) Basel III As of March As of March Composition of capital disclosure Remarks template 31, 2017 31, 2016 Directly issued qualifying additional Tier 1 instruments plus related stock 32 surplus of which: classified as ¥760,000 ¥300,000 liabilities under applicable accounting standards Directly issued qualifying Tier 2 instruments plus related stock surplus 46 684,150 324,517 of which: classified as liabilities under applicable accounting standards Note: Amounts in the Composition of capital disclosure are based on those before considering amounts under transitional arrangements and include Amounts excluded under transitional arrangements disclosed in (A) Composition of capital disclosure as well as amounts included as regulatory capital. In addition, items for regulatory purposes under transitional arrangements are excluded from this table. ■ Risk-based capital (3) Summary of approach to assessing capital adequacy In order to ensure that risk-based capital is sufficiently maintained in light of the risk held by us, we regularly conduct the following assessment of capital adequacy in addition to adopting a suitable and effective capital adequacy monitoring structure. Maintaining a sufficient BIS capital ratio We confirm our maintenance of a high level of financial soundness by conducting regular evaluations to examine whether our risk-based capital is adequate in qualitative as well as quantitative terms, in light of our business plans and strategic targets to match the increase in risk-weighted assets acquired for growth, in addition to maintaining our capital above the minimum requirements of common equity Tier 1 capital ratio, Tier 1 capital ratio, total capital ratio and capital buffer ratio. Balancing risk and capital On the basis of the framework for allocating risk capital, after obtaining the clearest possible grasp of the group’s overall risk exposure, we endeavor to control risk so as to keep it within the range of our business capacity by means of allocating capital that corresponds to the amount of risk to the principal banking subsidiaries, etc., within the bounds of our capital, and we conduct regular assessments to ensure that a sufficient level of capital is maintained for our risk profile. When making these assessments, we calculate the potential losses arising from assumed stress events and risk volumes, which we assess whether they balance with the group’s capital. Stress events are based on risk scenarios that are formulated based on the current economic condition and the economic outlook, etc. and from scenarios such as the occurrence of historical stress events. In addition, we examine whether an appropriate return on risk is maintained in the assessments. 275 (4) Required capital by portfolio classification (Billions of yen) As of March 31, 2017 As of March 31, 2016 EAD Required capital EAD Required capital Credit risk ¥207,375.9 ¥5,078.5 ¥200,940.9 ¥5,234.5 Internal ratings-based approach 189,852.0 4,600.4 190,100.2 4,701.2 Corporate (except specialized 71,777.8 2,468.9 70,940.2 2,502.9 lending) Corporate (specialized lending) 3,630.9 225.4 3,818.1 270.3 Sovereign 80,002.7 81.0 79,624.1 102.0 Bank 5,902.0 113.6 6,893.6 150.2 Retail 12,235.5 486.3 12,942.5 514.4 Residential mortgage 9,388.0 312.2 9,855.1 324.7 Qualifying revolving loan 629.2 48.8 562.9 42.6 Other retail 2,218.2 125.1 2,524.5 147.0 Equities 4,973.3 691.4 4,460.7 587.7 PD/LGD approach 4,180.1 485.4 3,901.2 441.9 Market-based approach (simple 793.1 205.9 559.4 145.7 risk weight method) Market-based approach (internal models approach) Regarded-method exposure 1,744.0 268.4 1,750.8 311.6 Purchase receivables 3,297.5 102.5 3,669.1 116.7 Securitizations 4,009.5 26.3 3,803.3 23.2 Others 2,278.3 136.3 2,197.4 121.6 Standardized approach 17,523.9 280.6 10,840.7 290.2 Sovereign 12,638.5 12.2 5,748.0 8.3 Bank 1,930.1 36.7 2,035.8 37.1 Corporate 2,354.5 177.3 2,392.7 181.8 Residential mortgage Securitizations 14.4 2.1 20.7 5.3 Others 586.1 52.0 643.2 57.5 CVA risk 181.7 225.8 Central counterparty-related 15.6 17.1 Market risk 182.6 135.6 Standardized approach 103.6 70.6 Interest rate risk 39.0 37.6 Equities risk 34.2 23.9 Foreign exchange risk 6.9 4.8 Commodities risk 23.4 4.1 Option transactions Internal models approach 78.9 65.0 Operational risk 269.9 259.7 Advanced measurement approach 223.4 221.0 Basic indicator approach 46.5 38.6 Total required capital (consolidated) ¥¥4,937.3 ¥¥5,002.4 Notes: 1. EAD: Exposure at default. 2. PD: Probability of default. 3. LGD: Loss given default. 4. Required capital: For credit risk, the sum of (i) 8% of credit risk-weighted assets and (ii) expected losses. For market risk, the market risk equivalent amount. For operational risk, the operational risk equivalent amount. 5. Total required capital (consolidated): 8% of the denominator of the capital adequacy ratio. 6. The major exposures included in each portfolio classification of internal ratings-based approach are as follows: 276 Status of Capital Adequacy Status of Mizuho Financial Group’s Consolidated Capital Adequacy Corporate (excluding Credits to corporations and sole proprietors (excluding credits to retail customers) specialized lending) Corporate (specialized Credits which limit interest and principal repayment sources to cash flow derived from specific real estate, chattel, businesses, etc, lending) including real estate non-recourse loan, ship finance and project finance, etc. Sovereign Credits to central governments, central banks and local governmental entities Bank Credits to banks and securities companies, etc. Retail Housing loans (residential mortgage), credit card loans (qualifying revolving retail loan) and other individual consumer loans and loans to business enterprises with total credit amount of less than ¥100 million, etc. (other retail). Equities Capital stock, preferred securities, perpetual subordinated debt, etc. (excluding trading assets) Regarded-method exposure Investment trusts and funds, etc. Purchase receivables Receivables purchased from third parties excluding securities (excluding securitizations) Securitizations Transactions in the form of “non-recourse” and having a “senior/subordinated structure,” etc. (excluding specialized lending). 7. EAD calculated using the standardized approach for credit risk represents the amount before the deduction of specific reserve for possible losses on loans, reserve for possible losses on loans to restructuring countries and partial direct write-offs. 277 ■ Credit risk (5) Credit risk management ○ Summary of credit risk management See pages 111 to 114 for a summary of our credit risk management policies and procedures. We apply the advanced internal ratings-based approach to calculate credit risk-weighted assets under Basel Framework. With regard to some business units or asset classes that are deemed to be immaterial for purposes of calculating credit risk-weighted assets, we apply the standardized approach. We use our estimates of PD (probability of default) and LGD (loss given default) in calculating credit risk-weighted assets. In accordance with regulations, we estimate PD by using long-term averages of actual defaults, to which conservative adjustments are made, based on internal data, and make adjustments to LGD taking into account recessionary periods. We regularly perform verifications of PD and LGD through back testing and other methods. We also utilize these estimates for measuring credit risks for internal use, allocating risk capital and other purposes. ○ Status of portfolios to which the standardized approach is applied Eligible external credit assessment institutions used for determining the risk weight for portfolios to which the standardized approach is applied are Rating and Investment Information, Inc. (R&I) in Japan and S&P Global Ratings overseas. We apply a risk weight of 100% for all of our corporate exposure. ○ Summary of our internal rating system See pages 111 to 112 for a summary of our internal rating system and rating assignment procedures. The following table sets forth information with respect to the definition of obligor ratings. 278 Status of Capital Adequacy Status of Mizuho Financial Group’s Consolidated Capital Adequacy (6) Credit risk exposure, etc. We exclude regarded-method exposure and securitization exposure from the amount of credit risk exposure. The outstanding balance is based on exposure at default. No significant difference exists between period-end credit risk position and the average credit risk position during the fiscal years ended March 31, 2016 and 2017. ○ Status of credit risk exposure (a) Breakdown by geographical area (Billions of yen) As of March 31, 2017 Loans, commitments and other nonderivative offbalance-sheet exposures Securities Derivatives Others Total Domestic ¥68,581.7 ¥19,414.3 ¥954.6 ¥38,424.0 ¥127,374.7 Overseas 37,218.6 10,014.2 1,635.9 7,854.8 56,723.7 Asia 8,907.9 2,145.6 472.7 1,865.2 13,391.6 Central and 2,978.7 56.3 85.1 456.3 3,576.6 South America North America 14,644.8 6,304.6 339.6 4,420.9 25,710.0 Eastern Europe 289.1 0.2 4.6 294.0 Western Europe 6,597.0 882.1 581.5 722.7 8,783.4 Other areas 3,800.9 625.3 156.5 384.9 4,967.7 Total ¥105,800.4 ¥29,428.5 ¥2,590.5 ¥46,278.8 ¥184,098.4 Exempt portion 17,509.4 (Billions of yen) As of March 31, 2016 Loans, commitments and other nonderivative offbalance-sheet exposures Securities Derivatives Others Total Domestic ¥68,500.9 ¥25,391.7 ¥1,489.6 ¥30,971.8 ¥126,354.1 Overseas 38,737.2 10,892.1 2,678.3 5,884.1 58,191.9 Asia 9,269.4 2,145.6 409.9 1,464.4 13,289.4 Central and 3,107.3 56.7 126.7 470.8 3,761.6 South America North America 15,529.0 6,470.6 711.6 3,190.3 25,901.7 Eastern Europe 374.0 0.2 3.1 377.5 Western Europe 6,792.6 1,826.5 1,199.2 497.4 10,315.9 Other areas 3,664.6 392.5 230.4 257.8 4,545.5 Total ¥107,238.1 ¥36,283.9 ¥4,167.9 ¥36,856.0 ¥184,546.0 Exempt portion 10,820.0 Notes: 1. Exempt portion represents the amount before the deduction of specific reserve for possible losses on loans, reserve for possible losses on loans to restructuring countries and partial direct write-offs, calculated using the standardized approach for business units and asset classes that are immaterial for the purpose of calculating credit riskweighted assets. 2. Exposure to non-Japanese residents is included in Overseas. 3. Others include cash, deposits, call loans, other debt purchased, money held in trust, foreign exchange assets, other assets, etc. 279 (b) Breakdown by industry (Billions of yen) As of March 31, 2017 Loans, commitments and other nonderivative offbalance-sheet exposures Securities Derivatives Others Total Manufacturing ¥20,272.4 ¥2,299.9 ¥424.1 ¥742.9 ¥23,739.5 Construction 1,349.2 215.0 7.6 70.6 1,642.4 Real estate 8,608.9 570.4 83.5 19.7 9,282.6 Service industries 5,018.6 397.7 77.4 68.0 5,561.9 Wholesale and retail 8,532.7 738.9 92.3 994.4 10,358.5 Finance and insurance 12,095.5 3,034.3 896.8 2,144.1 18,170.9 Individuals 11,071.5 0.8 9.4 11,081.8 Other industries 25,759.5 8,846.0 1,002.5 8,360.3 43,968.5 Japanese Government; 13,091.8 13,325.9 5.1 33,868.8 60,291.8 Bank of Japan Total ¥105,800.4 ¥29,428.5 ¥2,590.5 ¥46,278.8 ¥184,098.4 Exempt portion 17,509.4 (Billions of yen) As of March 31, 2016 Loans, commitments and other nonderivative offbalance-sheet exposures Securities Derivatives Others Total Manufacturing ¥19,955.7 ¥2,212.9 ¥569.1 ¥638.8 ¥23,376.7 Construction 1,498.5 201.1 12.5 47.4 1,759.7 Real estate 8,579.8 548.1 94.8 17.5 9,240.3 Service industries 5,018.6 381.3 85.4 65.8 5,551.2 Wholesale and retail 8,821.9 724.6 147.9 900.4 10,594.9 Finance and insurance 11,709.8 2,970.5 2,093.1 1,777.6 18,551.2 Individuals 11,634.5 0.6 10.1 11,645.3 Other industries 26,988.4 9,748.7 1,120.2 6,565.9 44,423.4 Japanese Government; 13,030.5 19,496.4 43.8 26,832.1 59,402.9 Bank of Japan Total ¥107,238.1 ¥36,283.9 ¥4,167.9 ¥36,856.0 ¥184,546.0 Exempt portion 10,820.0 Notes: 1. Exempt portion represents the amount before the deduction of specific reserve for possible losses on loans, reserve for possible losses on loans to restructuring countries and partial direct write-offs, calculated using the standardized approach for business units and asset classes that are immaterial for the purpose of calculating credit riskweighted assets. 2. Others include cash, deposits, call loans, other debt purchased, money held in trust, foreign exchange assets, other assets, etc. 280 Status of Capital Adequacy Status of Mizuho Financial Group’s Consolidated Capital Adequacy (c) Breakdown by residual contractual maturity (Billions of yen) As of March 31, 2017 Loans, commitments and other nonderivative off-balance-sheet exposures Securities Derivatives Others Total Less than one year ¥28,002.1 ¥7,317.2 ¥378.8 ¥5,819.6 ¥41,518.0 From one year to less 18,999.1 7,689.9 980.2 676.6 28,346.1 than three years From three years to 19,035.9 1,879.4 451.7 17.8 21,384.9 less than five years Five years or more 27,912.4 7,705.1 759.0 11.9 36,388.5 Other than above 11,850.6 4,836.7 20.5 39,752.7 56,460.7 Total ¥105,800.4 ¥29,428.5 ¥2,590.5 ¥46,278.8 ¥184,098.4 Exempt portion 17,509.4 (Billions of yen) As of March 31, 2016 Loans, commitments and other nonderivative off-balance-sheet exposures Securities Derivatives Others Total Less than one year ¥27,076.9 ¥5,849.6 ¥775.3 ¥4,940.8 ¥38,642.8 From one year to less 20,332.0 13,249.2 1,666.4 599.1 35,846.9 than three years From three years to 18,855.2 4,964.2 667.4 16.0 24,502.9 less than five years Five years or more 28,091.6 7,803.3 1,043.8 11.8 36,950.7 Other than above 12,882.2 4,417.4 14.7 31,288.0 48,602.5 Total ¥107,238.1 ¥36,283.9 ¥4,167.9 ¥36,856.0 ¥184,546.0 Exempt portion 10,820.0 Notes: 1. Exempt portion represents the amount before the deduction of specific reserve for possible losses on loans, reserve for possible losses on loans to restructuring countries and partial direct write-offs, calculated using the standardized approach for business units and asset classes that are immaterial for the purpose of calculating credit riskweighted assets. 2. Others include cash, deposits, call loans, other debt purchased, money held in trust, foreign exchange assets, other assets, etc. 281 ○ Status of exposure past due three months or more or in default (d) Breakdown by geographical area (Billions of yen) As of March 31, 2017 Loans, commitments and other nonderivative off-balancesheet exposures Securities Derivatives Others Total Domestic ¥973.8 ¥90.6 ¥2.9 ¥10.5 ¥1,078.1 Overseas 244.6 2.9 7.8 3.3 258.8 Asia 54.2 0.0 1.8 1.1 57.2 Central and South 98.5 0.0 2.8 0.0 101.3 America North America 30.1 2.9 0.1 1.4 34.7 Eastern Europe 0.6 0.0 0.7 Western Europe 47.3 0.0 2.9 0.5 50.8 Other areas 13.7 0.0 0.1 13.9 Total ¥1,218.5 ¥93.6 ¥10.8 ¥13.9 ¥1,336.9 Exempt portion 3.6 (Billions of yen) As of March 31, 2016 Loans, commitments and other nonderivative off-balancesheet exposures Securities Derivatives Others Total Domestic ¥931.3 ¥79.7 ¥4.2 ¥17.1 ¥1,032.4 Overseas 224.1 3.1 7.0 4.9 239.2 Asia 49.6 0.0 0.5 0.7 50.9 Central and South 55.3 0.0 3.3 0.0 58.6 America North America 29.5 3.0 1.6 34.2 Eastern Europe 1.9 0.0 2.0 Western Europe 64.6 0.0 3.1 2.3 70.2 Other areas 22.9 0.1 23.0 Total ¥1,155.4 ¥82.9 ¥11.3 ¥22.0 ¥1,271.7 Exempt portion 3.8 Notes: 1. Exempt portion represents the amount before the deduction of specific reserve for possible losses on loans, reserve for possible losses on loans to restructuring countries and partial direct write-offs, calculated using the standardized approach for business units and asset classes that are immaterial for the purpose of calculating credit riskweighted assets. 2. Exposure to non-Japanese residents is included in “Overseas.” 3. “Others” include deposits, call loans, other debt purchased, money held in trust, foreign exchange assets, other assets, etc. 282 Status of Capital Adequacy Status of Mizuho Financial Group’s Consolidated Capital Adequacy (e) Breakdown by industry (Billions of yen) As of March 31, 2017 Loans, commitments and other nonderivative off-balance-sheet exposures Securities Derivatives Others Total Manufacturing ¥548.4 ¥87.5 ¥2.9 ¥4.8 ¥643.8 Construction 13.2 0.0 0.0 0.0 13.3 Real estate 59.0 0.3 0.1 0.2 59.6 Service industries 84.1 0.4 0.9 0.9 86.4 Wholesale and retail 176.1 2.2 0.3 4.1 182.8 Finance and insurance 11.1 2.6 0.0 1.8 15.6 Individuals 94.6 1.1 95.7 Other industries 231.8 0.3 6.4 0.7 239.4 Total ¥1,218.5 ¥93.6 ¥10.8 ¥13.9 ¥1,336.9 Exempt portion 3.6 (Billions of yen) As of March 31, 2016 Loans, commitments and other nonderivative off-balance-sheet exposures Securities Derivatives Others Total Manufacturing ¥420.3 ¥73.2 ¥2.7 ¥4.5 ¥500.7 Construction 17.9 0.0 0.5 18.5 Real estate 76.3 0.6 0.1 0.2 77.3 Service industries 84.4 0.8 0.7 1.2 87.3 Wholesale and retail 195.1 1.5 0.6 9.5 206.9 Finance and insurance 11.3 5.5 0.0 2.1 19.0 Individuals 108.3 1.1 109.5 Other industries 241.5 0.9 7.0 2.6 252.2 Total ¥1,155.4 ¥82.9 ¥11.3 ¥22.0 ¥1,271.7 Exempt portion 3.8 Notes: 1. Exempt portion represents the amount before the deduction of specific reserve for possible losses on loans, reserve for possible losses on loans to restructuring countries and partial direct write-offs, calculated using the standardized approach for business units and asset classes that are immaterial for the purpose of calculating credit riskweighted assets. 2. “Others” include deposits, call loans, other debt purchased, money held in trust, foreign exchange assets, other assets, etc. 283 ○ Status of reserves for possible losses on loans The amounts associated with regarded-method exposure and securitization exposure are excluded. (f) Fiscal year-end balances of reserves for possible losses on loans and changes during the fiscal year (after partial direct write-offs) (Billions of yen) As of, or for the fiscal year As of, or for the fiscal year ended March ended March 31, 2017 31, 2016 General reserve for possible Beginning balance ¥304.8 ¥344.4 losses on loans Increase during the fiscal year 344.7 304.8 Decrease during the fiscal year 304.8 344.4 Ending balance 344.7 304.8 Specific reserve for possible Beginning balance 154.6 180.3 losses on loans Increase during the fiscal year 164.4 154.6 Decrease during the fiscal year 154.6 180.3 Ending balance 164.4 154.6 Reserve for possible losses Beginning balance 0.0 0.6 on loans to restructuring Increase during the fiscal year 0.0 0.0 countries Decrease during the fiscal year 0.0 0.6 Ending balance 0.0 0.0 Total Beginning balance ¥459.5 ¥525.4 Increase during the fiscal 459.5 509.1 year Decrease during the fiscal 525.4 459.5 year Ending balance 509.1 459.5 Note: General reserve for possible losses on loans in the above table represents the amount recorded in our consolidated balance sheet, and the amounts associated with regardedmethod exposure and securitization exposure are not excluded. 284 Status of Capital Adequacy Status of Mizuho Financial Group’s Consolidated Capital Adequacy (g) Specific reserve for possible losses on loans by geographical area and industry (Billions of yen) As of March 31, 2016 As of March 31, 2015 Change Domestic ¥96.2 ¥120.0 ¥(23.8) Manufacturing 27.2 29.5 (2.3) Construction 3.1 5.5 (2.3) Real estate 2.3 5.0 (2.6) Service industries 11.5 11.4 0.0 Wholesale and retail 28.8 35.0 (6.2) Finance and insurance 0.6 0.8 (0.1) Individuals 17.3 25.6 (8.3) Other industries 5.0 6.9 (1.8) Overseas 49.1 49.9 (0.8) Exempt portion 9.3 10.4 (1.0) Total ¥154.6 ¥180.3 ¥(25.6) (Billions of yen) As of March 31, 2017 As of March 31, 2016 Change Domestic ¥105.0 ¥96.2 ¥8.7 Manufacturing 36.4 27.2 9.2 Construction 0.8 3.1 (2.3) Real estate 1.9 2.3 (0.3) Service industries 12.6 11.5 1.1 Wholesale and retail 33.4 28.8 4.5 Finance and insurance 0.5 0.6 (0.0) Individuals 14.1 17.3 (3.2) Other industries 4.8 5.0 (0.1) Overseas 49.2 49.1 0.0 Exempt portion 10.1 9.3 0.8 Total ¥164.4 ¥154.6 ¥9.7 Note: Exempt portion represents the amount calculated using the standardized approach for business units and asset classes that are immaterial for purposes of calculating credit risk-weighted assets. 285 (h) Write-offs of loans by industry (Billions of yen) For the fiscal year ended March For the fiscal year ended March 31, 2017 31, 2016 Manufacturing ¥0.9 ¥1.1 Construction 0.3 0.2 Real estate 0.2 0.8 Service industries 2.3 1.4 Wholesale and retail 3.1 7.9 Finance and insurance 0.1 Individuals 4.4 5.3 Other industries 4.2 29.4 Exempt portion 0.1 0.0 Total ¥15.8 ¥46.6 Notes: 1. The above table represents the breakdown of losses on write-offs of loans recorded in our consolidated statement of income after excluding the amounts associated with regarded-method exposure and securitization exposure. 2. Exempt portion represents the amount calculated using the standardized approach for business units and asset classes that are immaterial for purposes of calculating credit risk-weighted assets. 3. Other industries include overseas and non-Japanese resident portions. 286 Status of Capital Adequacy Status of Mizuho Financial Group’s Consolidated Capital Adequacy ○ Status of exposure to which the standardized approach is applied (i) Exposure by risk weight category after applying credit risk mitigation (Billions of yen) As of March 31, 2017 With external On-balance sheet Off-balance sheet Total rating 0% ¥10,729.6 ¥1,522.4 ¥12,252.1 ¥50.0 10% 179.8 179.8 20% 1,337.2 511.1 1,848.4 63.5 35% 50% 42.4 55.8 98.3 22.0 100% 1,894.8 1,186.8 3,081.6 122.9 Risk weight 150% 0.0 0.0 250% 48.9 48.9 350% 625% 0.0 0.0 937.5% 0.0 0.0 1,250% 0.0 0.0 Total ¥14,233.1 ¥3,276.3 ¥17,509.4 ¥258.4 (Billions of yen) As of March 31, 2016 With external On-balance sheet Off-balance sheet Total rating 0% ¥4,659.9 ¥695.5 ¥5,355.4 ¥63.2 10% 225.4 225.4 20% 1,117.2 859.9 1,977.2 81.3 35% 50% 46.3 41.5 87.9 51.8 100% 2,044.3 1,076.2 3,120.5 57.3 Risk weight 150% 0.0 0.0 0.0 250% 53.3 53.3 350% 625% 0.0 0.0 937.5% 0.0 0.0 1,250% Total ¥8,146.6 ¥2,673.3 ¥10,820.0 ¥253.6 Notes: 1. The amounts in the above table are before the deduction of specific reserve for possible losses on loans, reserve for possible losses on loans to restructuring countries and partial direct write-offs. 2. Off-balance-sheet exposure shows credit equivalent amount. 287 (j) Amount of exposure to which a risk weight of 1,250% is applied (Billions of yen) As of March 31, 2017 As of March 31, 2016 Amount of exposure to which a risk weight of 1,250% is applied ¥0.2 ¥0.8 ○ Status of exposure to which the internal ratings-based approach is applied (k) Specialized lending exposure under supervisory slotting criteria by risk weight category (Billions of yen) As of March 31, 2017 As of March 31, 2016 50% ¥0.0 ¥0.5 70% 13.4 41.6 90% 3.8 1.1 95% 87.6 44.6 Risk weight 115% 4.5 5.0 120% 8.0 15.4 140% 15.2 7.5 250% 17.0 39.6 Default 15.5 19.5 Total ¥165.6 ¥175.2 (l) Equity exposure under simple risk weight method of market-based approach by risk weight category (Billions of yen) As of March 31, 2017 As of March 31, 2016 Risk weight 300% ¥737.5 ¥488.3 400% 55.6 71.1 Total ¥793.1 ¥559.4 Note: Of the equity exposure under the simple risk weight method, a risk weight of 300% is applied for listed equities and 400% for unlisted equities. 288 Status of Capital Adequacy Status of Mizuho Financial Group’s Consolidated Capital Adequacy (m) Portfolio by asset class and ratings segment (Corporate, etc.) (Billions of yen, except percentages) As of March 31, 2017 Risk Weighted PD LGD EL default weight average of (EAD (EAD (EAD (EAD Amount of credit weighted weighted weighted weighted EAD undrawn conversion average) average) average) average) (Billions On-balance Off-balance commitfactor (%) (%) (%) (%) of yen) sheet sheet ments (%) Corporate 1.76 36.17 36.73 ¥78,222.1 ¥56,571.6 ¥21,650.4 ¥22,184.7 74.99 Investment grade 0.09 37.82 26.08 55,538.0 37,788.8 17,749.1 18,464.6 74.99 zone Noninvestment 1.49 31.95 64.06 21,680.0 17,927.0 3,752.9 3,563.4 75.00 grade zone Default 100.00 35.87 33.22 35.12 1,004.0 855.7 148.2 156.6 75.00 Sovereign 0.01 37.96 1.27 80,314.2 67,492.6 12,821.5 816.3 75.00 Investment grade 0.00 37.96 1.16 80,165.1 67,353.7 12,811.4 806.8 75.00 zone Noninvestment 0.94 37.82 63.75 149.0 138.8 10.1 9.4 75.00 grade zone Default 100.00 28.51 25.45 40.51 0.0 0.0 Bank 0.16 37.28 23.23 5,921.5 4,231.3 1,690.2 734.3 75.00 Investment grade 0.08 37.30 19.41 5,337.6 3,764.5 1,573.0 643.6 75.00 zone Noninvestment 0.59 36.96 58.25 582.4 465.3 117.1 90.6 75.00 grade zone Default 100.00 96.75 94.52 29.55 1.4 1.4 Equity exposure under 2.28 90.00 145.16 4,180.1 4,064.4 115.7 PD/LGD approach Investment grade 0.07 90.00 112.90 3,788.9 3,673.2 115.7 zone Noninvestment 1.10 90.00 240.10 301.9 301.9 grade zone Default 100.00 90.00 1,192.50 89.3 89.3 Total 0.88 38.40 22.06 ¥168,638.0 ¥132,360.1 ¥36,277.9 ¥23,735.3 74.99 Investment grade 0.04 39.24 14.31 144,829.7 112,580.3 32,249.4 19,915.1 74.99 zone Noninvestment 1.46 32.89 66.25 22,713.3 18,833.1 3,880.2 3,663.5 75.00 grade zone Default 100.00 40.37 33.31 129.54 1,094.9 946.6 148.2 156.6 75.00 289 (Billions of yen, except percentages) As of March 31, 2016 Risk Weighted PD LGD EL default weight average of (EAD (EAD (EAD (EAD Amount of credit weighted weighted weighted weighted EAD undrawn conversion average) average) average) average) (Billions On-balance Off-balance commitfactor (%) (%) (%) (%) of yen) sheet sheet ments (%) Corporate 1.72 36.43 37.92 ¥77,953.6 ¥56,053.9 ¥21,899.7 ¥22,666.8 74.99 Investment grade 0.10 38.05 27.27 54,868.1 36,687.2 18,180.9 19,298.2 74.99 zone Noninvestment 1.49 32.28 64.49 22,127.0 18,442.6 3,684.4 3,360.5 75.00 grade zone Default 100.00 39.19 36.60 34.30 958.4 924.0 34.4 8.0 75.00 Sovereign 0.01 38.29 1.60 79,893.0 65,570.6 14,322.4 854.0 75.00 Investment grade 0.00 38.29 1.49 79,739.7 65,426.9 14,312.7 845.5 75.00 zone Noninvestment 0.72 38.13 61.26 153.2 143.5 9.7 8.4 75.00 grade zone Default 100.00 56.88 52.15 62.73 0.0 0.0 Bank 0.18 35.19 26.25 6,923.3 4,151.3 2,772.0 555.6 75.00 Investment grade 0.09 35.00 22.09 6,198.3 3,557.9 2,640.4 451.8 75.00 zone Noninvestment 0.69 36.65 61.91 723.0 591.4 131.5 103.8 75.00 grade zone Default 100.00 97.07 94.79 30.21 1.9 1.9 Equity exposure under 2.04 90.00 141.61 3,901.2 3,858.0 43.1 PD/LGD approach Investment grade 0.07 90.00 112.47 3,558.7 3,515.5 43.1 zone Noninvestment 1.03 90.00 236.83 268.0 268.0 grade zone Default 100.00 90.00 1,191.88 74.4 74.4 Total 0.85 38.50 22.64 ¥168,671.3 ¥129,633.9 ¥39,037.4 ¥24,076.5 74.99 Investment grade 0.05 39.33 14.90 144,364.9 109,187.6 35,177.2 20,595.6 74.99 zone Noninvestment 1.45 33.11 66.37 23,271.5 19,445.7 3,825.7 3,472.8 75.00 grade zone Default 100.00 42.95 36.72 117.56 1,034.9 1,000.5 34.4 8.0 75.00 Notes: 1. Investment grade zone includes obligor ratings A1 through B2, non-investment grade zone includes C1 through E2 (excluding E2R), and default includes E2R through H1. 2. Corporate does not include specialized lending exposure under supervisory slotting criteria. 3. Each asset class includes purchased receivables. 4. The commitments that can be terminated at any time without condition or terminated automatically are not included in the amount of undrawn commitments and weighted average of credit conversion factor. 5. Regarding equity exposure under the PD/LGD approach, we recognize the risk-weighted assets by multiplying 1,250% by the expected loss ( EL ). 290 Status of Capital Adequacy Status of Mizuho Financial Group’s Consolidated Capital Adequacy (n) Portfolio by asset class and ratings segment (Retail) (Billions of yen, except percentages) As of March 31, 2017 Risk PD LGD EL default weight Weighted (EAD (EAD (EAD (EAD Amount of average of weighted weighted weighted weighted EAD Offundrawn credit average) average) average) average) (Billions On-balance balance commitconversion (%) (%) (%) (%) of yen) sheet sheet ments factor (%) Residential 1.61 41.29 32.98 ¥9,388.0 ¥9,258.2 ¥129.8 ¥9.1 75.00 mortgage Non0.76 41.24 32.92 9,307.8 9,179.6 128.2 9.1 75.00 default Default 100.00 47.30 44.25 40.27 80.2 78.6 1.5 Qualifying revolving 3.25 76.82 66.05 629.2 414.9 214.2 1,715.6 12.49 loan (retail) Non3.14 76.83 66.05 628.4 414.4 214.0 1,714.1 12.49 default Default 100.00 71.62 66.53 67.40 0.7 0.5 0.1 1.5 12.84 Other retail 4.50 49.02 46.43 2,218.2 2,204.2 14.0 16.4 65.02 Non1.66 49.12 46.56 2,154.0 2,143.4 10.5 12.7 56.80 default Default 100.00 45.71 42.54 41.92 64.2 60.7 3.4 3.6 93.64 Total 2.22 44.52 37.12 ¥12,235.5 ¥11,877.4 ¥358.0 ¥1,741.2 13.31 Non1,736.0 1.04 44.49 37.07 12,090.3 11,737.5 352.8 13.14 default Default 100.00 46.72 43.61 41.14 145.2 139.9 5.2 5.2 69.86 (Billions of yen, except percentages) As of March 31, 2016 Risk PD LGD EL default weight Weighted (EAD (EAD (EAD (EAD Amount of average of weighted weighted weighted weighted EAD Offundrawn credit average) average) average) average) (Billions On-balance balance commitconversion (%) (%) (%) (%) of yen) sheet sheet ments factor (%) Residential 1.68 41.05 32.11 ¥9,855.1 ¥9,698.6 ¥156.4 ¥10.0 75.00 mortgage Non0.76 40.99 32.10 9,763.1 9,608.6 154.5 10.0 75.00 default Default 100.00 47.31 44.79 33.37 91.9 90.0 1.9 Qualifying revolving 3.18 76.66 64.45 562.9 373.7 189.1 1,610.0 11.75 loan (retail) Non3.03 76.67 64.46 562.0 373.1 188.9 1,608.5 11.75 default Default 100.00 71.97 67.80 55.26 0.8 0.6 0.2 1.5 14.39 Other retail 4.38 51.67 49.11 2,524.5 2,508.6 15.8 18.1 65.01 Non1.65 51.87 49.45 2,454.3 2,442.0 12.2 14.3 57.51 default Default 100.00 44.83 42.02 37.24 70.1 66.5 3.6 3.8 92.69 Total 2.28 44.67 36.83 ¥12,942.5 ¥12,581.0 ¥361.4 ¥1,638.2 12.73 Non1.03 44.65 36.85 12,779.4 12,423.7 355.6 1,632.8 12.53 default Default 100.00 46.37 43.72 35.15 163.0 157.2 5.7 5.4 70.15 Notes: 1. Each asset class includes purchased receivables. 2. The commitments that can be terminated at any time without condition or terminated automatically are not included in the amount of undrawn commitments and weighted average of credit conversion factor. 291 (o) Actual losses by asset class (Billions of yen) For the period from April 1, 2016 For the period from April 1, 2015 through March 31, 2017 through March 31, 2016 Actual losses Actual losses Corporate ¥(2.8) ¥24.8 Sovereign 0 0 Bank (0.2) (0.5) Residential mortgage (0.6) (6.0) Qualifying revolving loan (retail) 0.5 0.4 Other retail (1.6) (1.2) Total ¥(4.9) ¥17.4 Note: Actual losses are the sum of the net increase (decrease) in the amount of partial direct write-offs, specific reserve for possible losses on loans and general reserve for possible losses on loans (for claims against special attention obligors or below), etc., as well as tax-qualified direct write-offs, losses from sales of non-performing loans, losses from debt forgiveness and losses from debt-equity swaps during the relevant period. Equity exposure under the PD/LGD approach is not included in the amount of actual losses. <Analysis> The total amount of actual losses was decreased by ¥22.3 billion from the previous period to negative ¥4.9 billion due to significant decrease of losses from corporate exposure. (p) Comparison of estimated and actual losses by asset class (Billions of yen) For the period from April 1, 2016 For the period from April 1, 2015 through March 31, 2017 through March 31, 2016 Estimated losses (expected Actual losses Estimated losses (expected Actual losses losses as of March 31, 2016) losses as of March 31, 2015) After After deduction of deduction of reserves reserves Corporate ¥483.4 ¥117.6 ¥(2.8) ¥607.1 ¥128.9 ¥24.8 Sovereign 1.8 1.7 0 1.6 1.5 0 Bank 5.5 3.6 (0.2) 7.3 3.9 (0.5) Residential mortgage 71.5 34.2 (0.6) 80.4 31.2 (6.0) Qualifying revolving loan (retail) 13.6 3.3 0.5 12.3 2.4 0.4 Other retail 47.8 16.5 (1.6) 54.3 15.1 (1.2) Total ¥623.8 ¥177.2 ¥(4.9) ¥763.2 ¥183.3 ¥17.4 (Billions of yen) For the period from April 1, 2014 For the period from April 1, 2013 through March 31, 2015 through March 31, 2014 Estimated losses (expected Actual losses Estimated losses (expected Actual losses losses as of March 31, 2014) losses as of March 31, 2013) After After deduction of deduction of reserves reserves Corporate ¥596.0 ¥195.5 ¥128.1 ¥785.1 ¥246.9 ¥(41.2) Sovereign 1.5 1.5 0.0 1.7 (11.9) (13.5) Bank 10.3 5.6 (1.2) 12.5 6.4 (1.2) Residential mortgage 104.8 46.1 (0.7) 123.7 50.5 (3.2) Qualifying revolving loan (retail) 11.5 3.8 2.2 11.2 3.9 0.4 Other retail 61.9 23.8 5.1 69.1 26.2 1.4 Total ¥786.3 ¥276.6 ¥133.6 ¥1,003.5 ¥322.3 ¥(57.4) 292 Status of Capital Adequacy Status of Mizuho Financial Group’s Consolidated Capital Adequacy (Billions of yen) For the period from April 1, 2012 For the period from April 1, 2011 through March 31, 2013 through March 31, 2012 Estimated losses (expected Actual losses Estimated losses (expected Actual losses losses as of March 31, 2012) losses as of March 31, 2011) After After deduction of deduction of reserves reserves Corporate ¥828.0 ¥272.6 ¥75.6 ¥989.6 ¥373.2 ¥29.2 Sovereign 3.1 (10.2) 0.2 1.3 (11.7) 0.2 Bank 18.4 6.3 (5.0) 31.9 4.1 (1.4) Residential mortgage 134.8 41.6 (9.2) 150.4 43.2 (2.9) Qualifying revolving loan (retail) 10.8 3.7 0.3 12.2 4.2 (0.7) Other retail 73.5 24.2 0.2 74.7 24.1 5.2 Total ¥1,068.8 ¥338.4 ¥62.1 ¥1,260.3 ¥437.2 ¥29.5 (Billions of yen) For the period from April 1, 2010 For the period from April 1, 2009 through March 31, 2011 through March 31, 2010 Estimated losses (expected Actual losses Estimated losses (expected Actual losses losses as of March 31, 2010) losses as of March 31, 2009) After After deduction of deduction of reserves reserves Corporate ¥1,296.9 ¥454.0 ¥22.9 ¥1,313.1 ¥473.3 ¥166.5 Sovereign 1.5 (11.4) 0.2 1.7 (10.8) 0.3 Bank 38.4 8.3 (0.4) 35.5 6.5 1.0 Residential mortgage 122.6 31.1 31.5 95.8 24.8 33.2 Qualifying revolving loan (retail) 10.2 3.5 1.4 10.3 3.8 0.2 Other retail 51.2 15.0 23.1 51.3 15.6 4.3 Total ¥1,521.1 ¥500.6 ¥78.7 ¥1,508.0 ¥513.3 ¥205.8 (Billions of yen) For the period from April 1, 2008 For the period from April 1, 2007 through March 31, 2009 through March 31, 2008 Estimated losses (expected Actual losses Estimated losses (expected Actual losses losses as of March 31, 2008) losses as of March 31, 2007) After After deduction of deduction of reserves reserves Corporate ¥1,121.0 ¥350.0 ¥345.3 ¥1,086.0 ¥217.0 ¥74.6 Sovereign 1.3 (11.1) 0.0 5.4 (7.0) 0.0 Bank 2.9 2.5 28.6 6.4 2.6 (2.6) Residential mortgage 86.6 22.7 17.2 78.2 6.8 5.1 Qualifying revolving loan (retail) 7.9 3.2 2.1 7.2 2.3 (0.1) Other retail 51.9 16.4 3.8 52.9 8.8 (2.8) Total ¥1,271.8 ¥383.9 ¥397.3 ¥1,236.5 ¥230.5 ¥74.1 Notes: 1. Estimated losses after deduction of reserve are the amount after deductions of partial direct write-offs, specific reserves for possible losses on loans and general reserves for possible losses on loans (for claims against special attention obligors or below), etc., as of the beginning of each period. Equity exposure under the PD/LGD approach is not included in the amount of estimated losses. 2. Actual losses are the sum of the net increase (decrease) in the amount of partial direct write-offs, specific reserves for possible losses on loans and general reserves for possible losses on loans (for claims against special attention obligors or below), etc., as well as tax-qualified direct write-offs, losses from sales of non-performing loans, losses from debt forgiveness and losses from debt-equity swaps during the relevant period. Equity exposure under the PD/LGD approach is not included in the amount of actual losses. 293 ■ Methods for credit risk mitigation (7) Risk management regarding credit risk mitigation We obtain collateral and guarantees as a means of securing credit. In obtaining the collateral and guarantees, we evaluate the value of the collateral, guarantee performance capability of guarantor and legal enforceability, and we also conduct periodical subsequent re-evaluations. Furthermore, we monitor the state of concentration of collateral type and concentration of credit risks in individual companies, including indirect credit exposure such as guarantees. When calculating the credit risk weighted assets for capital adequacy ratio regulations, the effect of credit risk mitigation through financial collateral (mainly deposits and securities), other collateral (mainly real estate) and guarantees by sovereign, banks or corporations above a certain credit rating is reflected. For derivatives transactions and repurchase transactions, in cases in which a bilateral netting contract is valid in light of the legal system of the relevant jurisdiction, we take its effect into consideration. (8) Credit risk mitigation by portfolio classification The amounts of exposure to which the method of credit risk mitigation through collateral and guarantees is applied are as follows: (Billions of yen) As of March 31, 2017 Financial collateral Other collateral Guarantees Credit derivatives Total Internal ratings-based ¥806.3 ¥5,045.9 ¥8,429.4 ¥11.7 ¥14,293.4 approach Corporate 740.9 4,670.6 7,412.7 11.7 12,836.0 Sovereign 8.5 8.3 369.9 386.8 Bank 33.3 99.6 82.3 215.3 Retail 23.4 267.2 564.4 855.1 Residential 122.5 122.5 mortgage Qualifying revolving 0.1 0.1 loan Other retail 23.4 267.2 441.7 732.4 Others Standardized approach 124.5 163.4 287.9 Sovereign 100.0 163.4 263.4 Bank 14.0 14.0 Corporate 10.5 10.5 Residential mortgage Securitizations Others Total ¥930.8 ¥5,045.9 ¥8,592.9 ¥11.7 ¥14,581.4 294 Status of Capital Adequacy Status of Mizuho Financial Group’s Consolidated Capital Adequacy (Billions of yen) As of March 31, 2016 Financial collateral Other collateral Guarantees Credit derivatives Total Internal ratings-based ¥1,075.7 ¥5,455.6 ¥7,740.6 ¥50.4 ¥14,322.5 approach Corporate 642.1 5,003.9 6,529.5 50.4 12,226.0 Sovereign 13.2 10.5 504.7 528.5 Bank 394.8 193.9 58.8 647.6 Retail 25.6 247.2 647.4 920.3 Residential 151.0 151.0 mortgage Qualifying revolving 0.2 0.2 loan Other retail 25.6 247.2 496.2 769.1 Others Standardized approach 200.3 196.8 397.1 Sovereign 160.0 196.8 356.8 Bank 26.5 26.5 Corporate 13.7 13.7 Residential mortgage Securitizations Others Total ¥1,276.0 ¥5,455.6 ¥7,937.4 ¥50.4 ¥14,719.6 295 ■ Counterparty risk in derivatives transactions and long-settlement transactions (9) Management of counterparty risk in derivatives transactions and long-settlement transactions In managing the risk pertaining to counterparty risk in derivatives transactions and long-settlement transactions, we generally allocate risk capital together with loans, etc. As to derivatives transactions with financial institutions, etc., we periodically, where necessary, deliver and receive collateral to and from the counterparty based on the replacement cost to mitigate credit risk (collateralized derivatives transactions). In conducting such transactions, there is a risk in which we may be required to provide additional collateral in cases where our credit profile deteriorates. We calculate reserves for derivatives transactions by multiplying the same reserve ratio that we use for loans, etc., against the replacement cost. (10) Status of counterparty risk in derivatives transactions and long-settlement transactions (a) Status of derivatives transactions and long-settlement transactions Derivative transactions (Billions of yen) As of March 31, 2017 As of March 31, 2016 Gross Gross Credit Gross Gross Credit replacement add-on equivalent replacement add-on equivalent Current exposure method cost amount cost amount Foreign exchange¥139.7 ¥95.7 ¥235.4 ¥2,637.9 ¥2,903.1 ¥5,541.1 related transactions Interest rate-related 156.5 61.8 218.3 3,827.2 1,031.2 4,858.5 transactions Gold-related transactions Equity-related 36.6 130.4 167.0 107.8 182.5 290.3 transactions Transactions related to precious metals 33.1 73.7 106.8 48.8 101.8 150.7 (other than gold) Other commodity527.4 1,160.5 1,688.0 671.5 896.4 1,568.0 related transactions Credit derivatives 2.4 8.1 10.6 33.1 213.2 246.3 transactions Subtotal (A) 895.9 1,530.4 2,426.4 7,326.5 5,328.5 12,655.1 Netting benefits by (B) 1,154.2 7,250.9 close-out netting settlement contracts Subtotal (C)=(A)+(B) 1,272.1 5,404.1 Effect of credit risk (D) 298.6 490.6 mitigation by collateral Total (C)+(D) ¥¥¥973.5 ¥¥¥4,913.5 Credit Credit equivalent equivalent Standardized method amount amount Total ¥16.3 ¥333.6 Expected positive exposure method Total ¥2,386.1 ¥Note: We introduced expected positive exposure method during the fiscal year ended March 31, 2017 to calculate credit equivalent amounts. 296 Status of Capital Adequacy Status of Mizuho Financial Group’s Consolidated Capital Adequacy Long-settlement transactions (Billions of yen) As of March 31, 2017 As of March 31, 2016 Gross Gross Credit Gross Gross Credit replacement add-on equivalent replacement add-on equivalent cost amount cost amount Long-settlement transactions ¥26.8 ¥5.9 ¥32.8 ¥52.9 ¥9.4 ¥62.3 Notes: 1. The current exposure method is used as the method to calculate credit equivalent amounts. 2. Neither the netting benefits by close-out netting settlement contracts nor the effect of credit risk mitigation by collateral applies to long-settlement transactions. (b) Amounts of credit risk mitigation by type (Billions of yen) As of March 31, 2017 As of March 31, 2016 Financial collateral ¥23.7 ¥386.1 Other collateral 31.1 39.9 Guarantees, others 11.7 17.6 Total ¥66.7 ¥443.7 (c) Notional amount of credit derivatives subject to credit equivalent amount calculations (Billions of yen) As of March 31, 2017 As of March 31, 2016 Notional amount Notional amount Credit derivatives type: Credit default swap Protection bought ¥1,708.2 ¥1,885.4 Protection sold 1,803.0 1,912.9 Total return swap Protection bought Protection sold Total Protection ¥1,708.2 ¥1,885.4 bought Protection sold 1,803.0 1,912.9 Note:Credit derivatives used for credit risk mitigation are as follows: (Billions of yen) As of March 31, 2017 As of March 31, 2016 Credit derivatives used for credit risk mitigation ¥20.0 ¥57.7 297 ■ Securitization exposure We classify transactions as securitization exposure based on two characteristics, non-recourse and senior/subordinated structure, pursuant to the definitions set forth in the FSA Notice No. 20, etc.; provided that the transactions do not include those which fall within specialized lending exposure. (11) Summary of securitization exposure and its risk management We are associated with securitization transactions from various purposes and positions through our banking book and trading book. Quantitative information related to (a) to (c) below is disclosed in (13) Quantitative disclosure items for securitization exposure, in accordance with the definitions set forth in the FSA Notice No. 20. Securitization exposures are separately disclosed for calculation of credit risk-weighted assets and market risk equivalent amounts. ○The role of our securitization transactions (a) Securitization of our assets ( Securitization as originator ) For the purposes of mitigating credit risk and credit concentration risk, controlling economic capital and responding to the needs of our investors, etc., we engage in securitization transactions the underlying assets of which include mortgage loans and loans to our corporate customers. When conducting a securitization as an originator, we consider such transaction from various aspects, including the effects of reduction of economic capital and improvement of return on risk as well as the practical effects of risk transfers, and make a comprehensive judgment on structure and appropriateness of transaction. (b) Securitization program (ABCP/ABL) sponsor As a means of supporting our customers in their securitization of their account receivables and notes receivables, etc., we retain securitization exposure by providing asset-backed loans (ABLs, which are on-balance-sheet transactions), and providing asset-backed commercial paper (ABCP) backup lines (off-balance-sheet transactions), as sponsor to special purpose companies (in the form of Cayman Islands Corporations, etc.). In such cases, in addition to gaining firm understanding of the actual risk profile through due diligence from the viewpoint of investors, we assign internal ratings and make evaluations by assessing such transactions and carefully managing the exposure together with other direct loan assets. (c) Investment in alternative credit risk assets ( Securitization transactions as investor ) We hold securitization products, such as ABS, CMBS, RMBS, and CDO, and resecuritization products, the underlying assets of which are mainly RMBS and CDO, etc., for the purpose of investing in alternative credit risk assets that are different from conventional credit risk assets in order to diversify our investment portfolio. The Risk Management Committee, etc. set limits on the amount of investment for securitization transactions as investor, and we maintain a stringent structure for management of such transactions. In addition, we implement stress tests based on scenarios under the market liquidity depletion and sharp price declines. In addition, we undertake various securitization program arrangements such as ABL, ABCP and trust schemes, etc., as a means of financing for our customers. We endeavor to understand the actual risk profile, including the underlying assets, and to disclose appropriately the risks and terms of the program to the customers who invest in the product. Furthermore, we actively act as servicer for securitization transactions, offer settlement account facilities (servicer cash advance) and provide interest rate swaps to securitization conduits. None of our affiliated entities hold securitization products in which we are involved as originators or sponsors. ○ Overview of risk characteristics in securitization and monitoring system In addition to price fluctuation and market liquidity risks, securitization and resecuritization products are exposed to risks related to default, recovery and granularity of underlying asset portfolio. 298 Status of Capital Adequacy Status of Mizuho Financial Group’s Consolidated Capital Adequacy The structure of these products also contains risks related to the originators, the administrators, trustees and managers of the underlying assets. To address these risks, we also analyze the structure in terms of the underlying assets and credit events. We monitor the ability, quality and operating performance of originators and managers in charge of controlling the underlying assets as well as covenant information and credit status of the parties related to the program. In addition, for resecuritization products, we pay attention to the underlying assets of the underlying securitization products. We also assign internal ratings to all products and review the rating at least once a year. If there is a change in the credit situations, we will review the internal rating as appropriate. As mentioned above, we have established a system to comprehensively understand the risk characteristics of securitization exposures and manage these exposures. We conduct credit risk measurements on all credit transactions, including securitization transactions. Furthermore, we carry out periodic monitoring on investment amount and performance on securitization transactions and report the situations to our Risk Management Committee, etc. ○Status of response to Basel Framework In calculating credit risk-weighted assets of securitization exposure under the internal ratings-based approach, we apply the ratings-based approach ( RBA ) if the asset has a rating obtained from eligible external credit assessment institutions and apply the supervisory formula approach ( SF ) in other cases pursuant to the FSA Notice No. 20. We apply a risk weight of 1,250% under Basel III when neither RBA nor SF can be applied. In addition, in calculating credit risk-weighted assets of securitization exposure under the standardized approach, we calculate based on risk weight according to ratings by eligible external credit assessment institutions and weighted average risk weight of underlying assets. In terms of securitization exposure in our trading book that is subject to market risk regulations, we adopt the standardized measurement method and calculate market risk equivalent amounts in connection with the specific risks of securitization products based on risk weights according to ratings assigned by eligible external credit assessment institutions pursuant to the FSA Notice No. 20. As for the eligible external credit assessment institutions, we refer to Rating and Investment Information, Inc. (R&I), Japan Credit Rating Agency, Ltd. (JCR), Moody's Investors Service Inc. (Moody's), Standard & Poor's (S&P) and Fitch Ratings, Ltd. in determining securitization exposure risk weight (We do not separately designate eligible external credit assessment institutions for each type of securitization exposure). (12) Accounting policies for securitization transactions The point at which financial assets and liabilities relating to securitization transactions begin or cease to be recognized, their evaluation and accounting treatment are pursuant to Accounting Standards Relating to Financial Products (Business Accounting Standards No. 10), etc., and we applied (a) valuations obtained from brokers and others or (b) reasonably calculated prices based on the reasonable estimates of our management as fair value, unless it is deemed to be extremely difficult to determine the fair value. In deriving reasonably calculated prices based on the reasonable estimates of our management, we used the discounted cash flow method, and the price decision variables include default rates, recovery rates, pre-payment rates and discount rates. Furthermore, we apply appropriate accounting treatment on compound financial products based on Report on Auditing Securitized Instruments , announced by the Japanese Institute of Certified Public Accountants on March 26, 2008. 299 (13) Quantitative disclosure items for securitization exposure ○ Securitization exposure as originator (for calculation of credit risk-weighted assets) (a) Information by type of underlying assets (Billions of yen) As of, or for the fiscal year ended, March 31, 2017 Residential Lease SecuritiCredit mortgage Auto payment CorpoReal zation cards loans loans receivables rate estate products Total Traditional securitizations Amount of underlying assets ¥¥48.1 ¥¥¥¥¥¥48.1 (a) Default exposure 0.2 0.2 Losses during the fiscal year Amount of exposures securitized during the fiscal year Gains and losses recognized on sales during the fiscal year Securitization subject to early amortization treatment Synthetic securitizations Amount of underlying assets 280.9 280.9 (b) Default exposure Losses during the fiscal year Amount of exposures 277.4 277.4 securitized during the fiscal year Total amount of underlying ¥¥48.1 ¥¥¥280.9 ¥¥¥329.1 assets (a)+(b) 300 Status of Capital Adequacy Status of Mizuho Financial Group’s Consolidated Capital Adequacy (Billions of yen) As of, or for the fiscal year ended, March 31, 2016 Residential Lease SecuritiCredit mortgage Auto payment CorpoReal zation cards loans loans receivables rate estate products Total Traditional securitizations Amount of underlying assets ¥¥58.8 ¥¥¥¥¥¥58.8 (a) Default exposure 0.3 0.3 Losses during the fiscal year Amount of exposures securitized during the fiscal year Gains and losses recognized on sales during the fiscal year Securitization subject to early amortization treatment Synthetic securitizations Amount of underlying assets 70.6 70.6 (b) Default exposure Losses during the fiscal year Amount of exposures securitized during the fiscal year Total amount of underlying ¥¥58.8 ¥¥¥70.6 ¥¥¥129.5 assets (a)+(b) Notes: 1. Items that refer to during the fiscal year show amounts accumulated during the fiscal year ended March 31, 2016 and 2017. 2. Amount of underlying assets and Losses during the fiscal year include those related to, in addition to exposure originated by us, exposure to assets originated by other financial institutions if they are contained in the same securitization program. 3. Classification based on type of underlying assets is conducted according to the principal underlying asset type for each transaction. 4. Credit cards include shopping credit receivables, card loans, etc. 5. The effects of risk mitigation, in the context of calculating capital adequacy ratio, of transfers (hedges) of risk through synthetic securitization transactions are reflected in Required capital of (B) Information of securitization exposure retained or purchased. 301 ─Exposure intended to be securitized─ (Billions of yen) As of March 31, 2017 Residential Lease SecuritiCredit mortgage Auto payment CorpoReal zation cards loans loans receivables rate estate products Total Exposure intended to be ¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥securitized (Billions of yen) As of March 31, 2016 Residential Lease SecuritiCredit mortgage Auto payment CorpoReal zation cards loans loans receivables rate estate products Total Exposure intended to be ¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥securitized (b) Information of securitization exposure retained or purchased ─Exposure by type of underlying asset─ (Billions of yen) As of March 31, 2017 Residential Lease SecuritiCredit mortgage Auto payment CorpoReal zation cards loans loans receivables rate estate products Total On-balance sheet ¥¥0 ¥¥¥280.9 ¥¥¥280.9 Exposure on resecuritizations Off-balance sheet Exposure on resecuritizations Total ¥¥0 ¥¥¥280.9 ¥¥¥280.9 Exposure on resecuritizations Exposure on securitizations to which a risk weight of 0 0.6 0.6 1,250% is applied Exposure whose underlying assets are overseas assets (Billions of yen) As of March 31, 2016 Residential Lease SecuritiCredit mortgage Auto payment CorpoReal zation cards loans loans receivables rate estate products Total On-balance sheet ¥¥¥¥¥70.6 ¥¥¥70.6 Exposure on resecuritizations Off-balance sheet Exposure on resecuritizations Total ¥¥¥¥¥70.6 ¥¥¥70.6 Exposure on resecuritizations Exposure on securitizations to which a risk weight of 1,250% is applied Exposure whose underlying 64.5 64.5 assets are overseas assets Notes: 1. Classification based on type of underlying asset is conducted according to the principal underlying asset type for each transaction. 2. Credit cards include shopping credit receivables, card loans, etc. 3. Exposure whose underlying assets are overseas assets is classified based on the principal underlying asset type for each transaction. 4. Exposure on resecuritizations as of both March 31, 2016 and 2017 are classified following Article 1, Paragraph 2-2 of the FSA Notice No. 20 (hereinafter the same) 302 Status of Capital Adequacy Status of Mizuho Financial Group’s Consolidated Capital Adequacy ─Exposure by risk weight category─ (Billions of yen) As of March 31, 2017 OnOffbalance Exposure on balance Exposure on Exposure on sheet resecuritizations sheet resecuritizations Total resecuritizations Up to 20% ¥267.4 ¥¥¥¥267.4 ¥Up to 50% Up to 100% Risk Up to 250% 1.7 1.7 weight Up to 650% Less than 11.1 11.1 1,250% 1,250% 0.6 0.6 Total ¥280.9 ¥¥¥¥280.9 ¥(Billions of yen) As of March 31, 2016 OnOffbalance Exposure on balance Exposure on Exposure on sheet resecuritizations sheet resecuritizations Total resecuritizations Up to 20% ¥62.7 ¥¥¥¥62.7 ¥Up to 50% Up to 100% Risk Up to 250% 1.7 1.7 weight Up to 650% 6.1 6.1 Less than 1,250% 1,250% Total ¥70.6 ¥¥¥¥70.6 ¥─Amount of required capital by risk weight category─ (Billions of yen) As of March 31, 2017 OnOffbalance Exposure on balance Exposure on Exposure on sheet resecuritizations sheet resecuritizations Total resecuritizations Up to 20% ¥1.5 ¥¥¥¥1.5 ¥Up to 50% Up to 100% Risk Up to 250% weight Up to 650% Less than 0.2 0.2 1,250% 1,250% 0.7 0.7 Total ¥2.6 ¥¥¥¥2.6 ¥303 (Billions of yen) As of March 31, 2016 OnOffbalance Exposure on balance Exposure on Exposure on sheet resecuritizations sheet resecuritizations Total resecuritizations Up to 20% ¥0.3 ¥¥¥¥0.3 ¥Up to 50% Up to 100% Risk Up to 250% weight Up to 650% 0.5 0.5 Less than 1,250% 1,250% Total ¥0.9 ¥¥¥¥0.9 ¥─Credit risk mitigation against exposure on resecuritizations─ (Billions of yen) As of March 31, 2017 As of March 31, 2016 Up to 20% ¥¥Up to 50% Risk Up to 100% weight Up to 250% Up to 650% Over 650% Total ¥¥Note: The above table shows the exposure on resecuritizations based on the risk weight after taking into consideration the effect of method to mitigate credit risk. ─Capital increase due to securitization transactions─ (Billions of yen) As of March 31, 2017 Residential Lease SecuritiCredit mortgage Auto payment Real zation cards loans loans receivables Corporate estate products Total Capital increase due to securitization ¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥transactions (Billions of yen) As of March 31, 2016 Residential Lease SecuritiCredit mortgage Auto payment Real zation cards loans loans receivables Corporate estate products Total Capital increase due to securitization ¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥transactions 304 Status of Capital Adequacy Status of Mizuho Financial Group’s Consolidated Capital Adequacy ○ Securitization exposure as sponsor of securitization programs (ABCP/ABL) (for calculation of credit riskweighted assets) (c) Information by type of underlying assets (Billions of yen) As of, or for the fiscal year ended, March 31, 2017 Residential Lease Account Credit mortgage Auto payment and note Real cards loans loans receivables receivables estate Others Total Amount of underlying ¥43.3 ¥¥74.4 ¥31.9 ¥307.5 ¥¥43.3 ¥500.6 assets Default exposure 4.9 4.9 Estimated loss amount related to underlying 1.6 0.8 0.5 5.8 0.7 9.6 assets during the fiscal year Amount of exposures securitized during the ¥394.0 ¥¥814.3 ¥753.7 ¥2,512.4 ¥¥680.3 ¥5,154.9 fiscal year (Billions of yen) As of, or for the fiscal year ended, March 31, 2016 Residential Lease Account Credit mortgage Auto payment and note Real cards loans loans receivables receivables estate Others Total Amount of underlying ¥60.8 ¥¥103.2 ¥161.5 ¥400.2 ¥¥61.2 ¥787.1 assets Default exposure 3.3 3.3 Estimated loss amount related to underlying 1.5 0.8 3.6 5.0 2.2 13.3 assets during the fiscal year Amount of exposures securitized during the ¥1,263.5 ¥¥862.3 ¥648.8 ¥3,077.6 ¥¥828.7 ¥6,681.0 fiscal year Notes: 1. Items that refer to during the fiscal year show amounts accumulated during the fiscal year ended March 31, 2016 and 2017. 2. Securitization exposure that is acquired in securitization of customer’s claims other than as sponsor (in the form of asset-backed securities, trust beneficiary rights and other transferable instruments) is categorized as securitization exposure as investor. 3. The amount of default exposure is the amount of the underlying assets recognized as default in the calculation of capital adequacy ratio. 4. Estimated loss amount related to underlying assets is based on the amount of the underlying assets as of the relevant date and the following parameters that are used in the calculation of capital adequacy ratio: ･ parameters used in the calculation of required capital for an underlying asset when applying the supervisory formula (e.g., PD); and ･ with respect to underlying assets classified as securitization exposure, the conservative application of risk weights used in the ratings-based approach. 5. Classification based on type of underlying assets is conducted according to the principal underlying asset type for each transaction. Transactions that are difficult to classify are included under Others. 6. Credit cards include shopping credit receivables, card loans, etc 305 (d) Information of securitization exposure retained or purchased ─Exposure by type of underlying asset─ (Billions of yen) As of March 31, 2017 Residential Lease Account Credit mortgage Auto payment and note Real cards loans loans receivables receivables estate Others Total On-balance sheet ¥17.8 ¥¥62.7 ¥30.1 ¥296.3 ¥¥43.3 ¥450.6 Exposure on resecuritizations Off-balance sheet 136.3 0.1 54.0 27.6 218.2 Exposure on resecuritizations Total ¥154.2 ¥¥62.9 ¥30.1 ¥350.4 ¥¥71.0 ¥668.8 Exposure on resecuritizations Exposure on securitizations to which a risk weight of 1,250% is applied Exposure whose underlying assets 98.2 18.0 153.0 58.3 327.7 are overseas assets (Billions of yen) As of March 31, 2016 Residential Lease Account Credit mortgage Auto payment and note Real cards loans loans receivables receivables estate Others Total On-balance sheet ¥32.3 ¥¥95.9 ¥78.0 ¥388.6 ¥¥61.0 ¥656.1 Exposure on resecuritizations Off-balance sheet 137.3 48.6 0.0 64.9 251.0 Exposure on resecuritizations Total ¥169.7 ¥¥144.5 ¥78.1 ¥453.6 ¥¥61.0 ¥907.1 Exposure on resecuritizations Exposure on securitizations to which a risk weight of 1,250% is applied Exposure whose underlying assets 111.5 90.2 53.5 200.4 31.8 487.6 are overseas assets Notes: 1. Securitization exposure retained or purchased includes unused portions of securitization programs that are subject to allocation of required capital. 2. Classification based on type of underlying assets is conducted according to the principal underlying asset type for each transaction. Transactions that are difficult to classify are included under Others. 3. Credit cards include shopping credit receivables, card loans, etc. 4. The classification of transactions of which the underlying assets are overseas assets is conducted according to the principal underlying assets of each transaction. 5. Exposure on resecuritizations as of both March 31, 2016 and 2017 are classified following Article 1, Paragraph 2-2 of the FSA Notice No. 20 (hereinafter the same) 306 Status of Capital Adequacy Status of Mizuho Financial Group’s Consolidated Capital Adequacy ─Exposure by risk weight category─ (Billions of yen) As of March 31, 2017 Onbalance Exposure on Off-balance Exposure on Exposure on sheet resecuritizations sheet resecuritizations Total resecuritizations Up to 20% ¥434.9 ¥¥218.2 ¥¥653.1 ¥Up to 50% 14.0 14.0 Up to 100% 1.6 1.6 Risk Up to 250% weight Up to 650% Less than 1,250% 1,250% Total ¥450.6 ¥¥218.2 ¥¥668.8 ¥(Billions of yen) As of March 31, 2016 Onbalance Exposure on Off-balance Exposure on Exposure on sheet resecuritizations sheet resecuritizations Total resecuritizations Up to 20% ¥650.4 ¥¥251.0 ¥¥901.5 ¥Up to 50% 2.1 2.1 Up to 100% 3.4 3.4 Risk Up to 250% weight Up to 650% Less than 1,250% 1,250% Total ¥656.1 ¥¥251.0 ¥¥907.1 ¥─Amount of required capital by risk weight category─ (Billions of yen) As of March 31, 2017 Onbalance Exposure on Off-balance Exposure on Exposure on sheet resecuritizations sheet resecuritizations Total resecuritizations Up to 20% ¥2.7 ¥¥1.4 ¥¥4.1 ¥Up to 50% 0.2 0.2 Up to 100% 0.1 0.1 Risk Up to 250% weight Up to 650% Less than 1,250% 1,250% Total ¥3.1 ¥¥1.4 ¥¥4.5 ¥307 (Billions of yen) As of March 31, 2016 Onbalance Exposure on Off-balance Exposure on Exposure on sheet resecuritizations sheet resecuritizations Total resecuritizations Up to 20% ¥3.8 ¥¥1.5 ¥¥5.4 ¥Up to 50% 0.0 0.0 Up to 100% 0.1 0.1 Risk Up to 250% weight Up to 650% Less than 1,250% 1,250% Total ¥4.1 ¥¥1.5 ¥¥5.7 ¥─Credit risk mitigation against exposure on resecuritizations─ (Billions of yen) As of March 31, 2017 As of March 31, 2016 Up to 20% ¥¥Up to 50% Risk Up to 100% weight Up to 250% Up to 650% Over 650% Total ¥¥Note: The above table shows the exposure on resecuritizations based on the risk weight after taking into consideration the effect of method to mitigate credit risk. ○ Securitization exposure as investor(for calculation of credit risk-weighted assets) (e) Information of securitization exposure retained or purchased ─Exposure by type of underlying asset─ (Billions of yen) As of March 31, 2017 Residential Lease Credit mortgage Auto payment Real cards loans loans receivables Corporate estate Others Total On-balance sheet ¥145.0 ¥818.9 ¥725.6 ¥333.5 ¥425.4 ¥6.5 ¥195.3 ¥2,650.4 Exposure on 0.0 0.0 resecuritizations Off-balance sheet 32.0 97.2 130.1 161.6 0.1 2.3 423.6 Exposure on resecuritizations Total ¥177.1 ¥818.9 ¥822.8 ¥463.7 ¥587.1 ¥6.6 ¥197.6 ¥3,074.1 Exposure on 0.0 0.0 resecuritizations Exposure on securitizations to 0.0 0.2 0.2 which a risk weight of 1,250% is applied Exposure whose underlying assets 161.3 0.0 819.9 462.8 587.1 0.1 163.3 2,194.8 are overseas assets 308 Status of Capital Adequacy Status of Mizuho Financial Group’s Consolidated Capital Adequacy (Billions of yen) As of March 31, 2016 Residential Lease Credit mortgage Auto payment Real cards loans loans receivables Corporate estate Others Total On-balance sheet ¥44.0 ¥949.6 ¥469.5 ¥107.8 ¥427.4 ¥12.4 ¥311.3 ¥2,322.2 Exposure on 4.6 5.8 10.4 resecuritizations Off-balance sheet 107.0 191.0 53.5 169.4 0.1 2.6 523.9 Exposure on resecuritizations Total ¥151.0 ¥949.6 ¥660.6 ¥161.3 ¥596.8 ¥12.5 ¥314.0 ¥2,846.2 Exposure on 4.6 5.8 10.4 resecuritizations Exposure on securitizations to 0.0 0.8 0.8 which a risk weight of 1,250% is applied Exposure whose underlying assets 151.0 0.0 627.7 157.3 596.8 0.3 269.5 1,802.9 are overseas assets Notes: 1. Classification based on type of underlying assets is conducted according to the principal underlying asset type for each transaction. Transactions that are difficult to classify are included under Others. 2. Credit cards include shopping credit receivables, card loans, etc. 3. The classification of transactions of which the underlying assets are overseas assets is conducted according to the principal underlying assets of each transaction. 4. Exposure on resecuritizations as of both March 31, 2016 and 2017 are classified following Article 1, Paragraph 2-2 of the FSA Notice No. 20 (hereinafter the same) ─Exposure by risk weight category─ (Billions of yen) As of March 31, 2017 On-balance Exposure on Off-balance Exposure on Exposure on sheet resecuritizations sheet resecuritizations Total resecuritizations Up to 20% ¥2,593.7 ¥0.0 ¥421.1 ¥¥3,014.9 ¥0.0 Up to 50% 44.8 44.8 Up to 100% 8.3 1.7 10.1 Risk Up to 250% weight Up to 650% 3.3 0.5 3.9 Less than 1,250% 1,250% 0.0 0.1 0.2 Total ¥2,650.4 ¥0.0 ¥423.6 ¥¥3,074.1 ¥0.0 309 (Billions of yen) As of March 31, 2016 On-balance Exposure on Off-balance Exposure on Exposure on sheet resecuritizations sheet resecuritizations Total resecuritizations Up to 20% ¥2,270.9 ¥4.6 ¥521.1 ¥¥2,792.0 ¥4.6 Up to 50% 34.3 5.8 34.3 5.8 Up to 100% 3.9 3.9 Risk Up to 250% weight Up to 650% 12.3 2.6 14.9 Less than 1,250% 1,250% 0.6 0.1 0.8 Total ¥2,322.2 ¥10.4 ¥523.9 ¥¥2,846.2 ¥10.4 ─Amount of required capital by risk weight category─ (Billions of yen) As of March 31, 2017 On-balance Exposure on Off-balance Exposure on Exposure on sheet resecuritizations sheet resecuritizations Total resecuritizations Up to 20% ¥14.9 ¥0.0 ¥3.3 ¥¥18.2 ¥0.0 Up to 50% 0.9 0.9 Up to 100% 0.6 0.1 0.8 Risk Up to 250% weight Up to 650% 0.9 0.1 1.1 Less than 1,250% 1,250% 0.0 0.1 0.2 Total ¥17.5 ¥0.0 ¥3.7 ¥¥21.3 ¥0.0 (Billions of yen) As of March 31, 2016 On-balance Exposure on Off-balance Exposure on Exposure on sheet resecuritizations sheet resecuritizations Total resecuritizations Up to 20% ¥12.7 ¥0.0 ¥3.2 ¥¥15.9 ¥0.0 Up to 50% 0.7 0.1 0.7 0.1 Up to 100% 0.3 0.3 Risk Up to 250% weight Up to 650% 3.4 0.7 4.1 Less than 1,250% 1,250% 0.6 0.1 0.8 Total ¥17.8 ¥0.2 ¥4.1 ¥¥21.9 ¥0.2 ─Credit risk mitigation against exposure on resecuritizations─ (Billions of yen) As of March 31, 2017 As of March 31, 2016 Up to 20% ¥¥Up to 50% 2.5 Risk Up to 100% weight Up to 250% Up to 650% Over 650% Total ¥¥2.5 Note: The above table shows the exposure on resecuritizations based on the risk weight after taking into consideration the effect of method to mitigate credit risk. 310 Status of Capital Adequacy Status of Mizuho Financial Group’s Consolidated Capital Adequacy ○ Securitization exposure as originator (for calculation of market risk equivalent amounts) (f) Information by type of underlying assets None as of March 31, 2016 and 2017 (g) Information of securitization exposure retained or purchased None as of March 31, 2016 and 2017 ○ Securitization exposure as sponsor of securitization programs (ABCP/ABL) (for calculation of market risk equivalent amounts) (h) Information by type of underlying assets None as of March 31, 2016 and 2017 (i) Information of securitization exposure retained or purchased None as of March 31, 2016 and 2017 311 ○ Securitization exposure as investor (for calculation of market risk equivalent amounts) (j) Information of securitization exposure retained or purchased ─Exposure by type of underlying asset─ (Billions of yen) As of March 31, 2017 Residential Lease Credit mortgage Auto payment Real Cards loans loans receivables Corporate estate Others Total On-balance sheet ¥0.0 ¥3.7 ¥13.8 ¥0.6 ¥0.0 ¥3.0 ¥7.0 ¥28.4 Exposure on 0.0 0.0 resecuritizations Off-balance sheet Exposure on resecuritizations Total ¥0.0 ¥3.7 ¥13.8 ¥0.6 ¥0.0 ¥3.0 ¥7.0 ¥28.4 Exposure on 0.0 0.0 resecuritizations Exposure on securitizations to 3.6 0.4 0.0 0.3 4.4 which a risk weight of 100% is applied Exposure whose underlying assets are 3.5 13.8 0.6 0.0 3.0 7.0 28.2 overseas assets (Billions of yen) As of March 31, 2016 Residential Lease Credit mortgage Auto payment Real Cards loans loans receivables Corporate estate Others Total On-balance sheet ¥¥1.0 ¥0.0 ¥¥0.0 ¥4.0 ¥1.4 ¥6.5 Exposure on 0.3 0.3 resecuritizations Off-balance sheet Exposure on resecuritizations Total ¥¥1.0 ¥0.0 ¥¥0.0 ¥4.0 ¥1.4 ¥6.5 Exposure on 0.3 0.3 resecuritizations Exposure on securitizations to 1.0 0.0 0.3 0.3 1.7 which a risk weight of 100% is applied Exposure whose underlying assets are 0.9 0.0 0.0 2.0 1.1 4.0 overseas assets Notes: 1. Classification based on type of underlying assets is conducted according to the principal underlying asset type for each transaction. Transactions that are difficult to classify are included under Others. 2. Credit cards include shopping credit receivables, card loans, etc. 3. The classification of transactions of which the underlying assets are overseas assets is conducted according to the principal underlying assets of each transaction. 4. Exposure on resecuritizations are classified following Article 1, Paragraph 2-2 of the FSA Notice No. 20 (hereinafter the same). 312 Status of Capital Adequacy Status of Mizuho Financial Group’s Consolidated Capital Adequacy ─Exposure by risk capital charge category─ (Billions of yen) As of March 31, 2017 On-balance Exposure on Off-balance Exposure on Exposure on sheet resecuritizations sheet resecuritizations Total resecuritizations Up to 1.6% ¥20.5 ¥¥¥¥20.5 ¥Up to 4% Risk Up to 8% 2.4 2.4 capital Up to 20% charge Up to 52% 1.0 1.0 Less than 100% 100% 4.4 0.0 4.4 0.0 Total ¥28.4 ¥0.0 ¥¥¥28.4 ¥0.0 (Billions of yen) As of March 31, 2016 On-balance Exposure on Off-balance Exposure on Exposure on sheet resecuritizations sheet resecuritizations Total resecuritizations Up to 1.6% ¥0.4 ¥¥¥¥0.4 ¥Up to 4% 2.3 2.3 Risk Up to 8% 1.9 0.2 1.9 0.2 capital Up to 20% charge Up to 52% Less than 100% 100% 1.7 0.1 1.7 0.1 Total ¥6.5 ¥0.3 ¥¥¥6.5 ¥0.3 ─Amount of required capital by risk capital charge category─ (Billions of yen) As of March 31, 2017 On-balance Exposure on Off-balance Exposure on Exposure on sheet resecuritizations sheet resecuritizations Total resecuritizations Up to 1.6% ¥0.3 ¥¥¥¥0.3 ¥Up to 4% Risk Up to 8% 0.1 0.1 capital Up to 20% charge Up to 52% 0.2 0.2 Less than 100% 100% 4.4 0.0 4.4 0.0 Total ¥5.2 ¥0.0 ¥¥¥5.2 ¥0.0 313 (Billions of yen) As of March 31, 2016 On-balance Exposure on Off-balance Exposure on Exposure on sheet resecuritizations sheet resecuritizations Total resecuritizations Up to 1.6% ¥0.0 ¥¥¥¥0.0 ¥Up to 4% 0.0 0.0 Risk Up to 8% 0.1 0.0 1.0 0.0 capital Up to 20% charge Up to 52% Less than 100% 100% 1.7 0.1 1.7 0.1 Total ¥2.0 ¥0.1 ¥¥¥2.0 ¥0.1 ─Subject to Comprehensive Risk Measure─ (Billions of yen) As of March 31, 2017 Securitization Resecuritiation Total amount of securitization exposure ¥¥Total amount of required capital ¥¥(Billions of yen) As of March 31, 2016 Securitization Resecuritiation Total amount of securitization exposure ¥¥Total amount of required capital ¥¥■ Market risk See pages 115 to 119 for information regarding our market risk management structure, etc. ○ Trading activities The following table shows VaR (Value at Risk) figures of our trading activities: (Billions of yen) For the fiscal year For the fiscal year ended March 31, ended March 31, 2017 2016 End of period 1.9 2.0 Maximum 4.8 4.4 Minimum 1.7 1.5 Average 2.7 2.4 The number of cases where assumptive losses 0 5 exceeded VaR during the period Notes: 1. Amount of market risk (VaR) is calculated based on the internal model. 2. The multiplication factor for the calculation of market risk equivalent is determined by the number of cases where assumptive losses exceeded VaR before 250 business days prior to the end of period. 3. Our group companies which conduct trading activities are Mizuho Bank, Mizuho Trust & Banking and Mizuho Securities, etc. VaR method: VaR: historical simulation method; Quantitative standard: 1. confidence interval: one-tailed 99.0%; 2. holding period: 1 day; and 3. historical observation period of three years (801 business days) 314 Status of Capital Adequacy Status of Mizuho Financial Group’s Consolidated Capital Adequacy The following table shows stressed VaR figures of our trading activities: (Billions of yen) For the fiscal year For the fiscal year ended March 31, ended March 31, 2017 2016 End of period 5.3 3.4 Maximum 8.9 12.5 Minimum 2.8 3.3 Average 5.2 5.2 Stressed VaR method: Stressed VaR: historical simulation method; Quantitative standard: 1. confidence interval: one-tailed 99.0%; 2. holding period: 1 day; and 3. historical observation period of one year of significant financial stress (265 business days) Stressed VaR The stressed VaR measurement is based on a continuous 12-month period of significant financial stress. ○ Outlier criteria The following table shows results of calculations under the outlier framework: (Billions of yen) Amount of loss Broadly-defined Loss ratio capital to capital As of March 31, 2016 516.6 9,638.6 5.3% As of March 31, 2017 361.2 10,050.9 3.5% Effect of yen interest rate 60.4 n.a. n.a. Effect of dollar interest rate 245.1 n.a. n.a. Effect of euro interest rate 17.3 n.a. n.a. Outlier criteria As part of the capital adequacy requirements under Basel III, the losses arising from a banking book in hypothetical interest rate shock scenarios under certain stress conditions are calculated and compared with the sum of Tier 1 and Tier 2 capital. If the interest rate risk of the banking book leads to an economic value decline of more than 20% of the sum of Tier 1 and Tier 2 capital, we will be deemed an outlier and may be required to reduce the banking book risk or adopt other responses. Interest rate shock scenario under stress conditions in outlier criteria For the interest rate shock scenario used in connection with the calculations under the outlier framework, we generate annual rate fluctuation data for five years derived from daily raw historical interest rate data of the past six years and then apply the actual fluctuation data at a 99.0% confidence level to the shock scenario. ■ Operational risk See pages 120 to 124 for information regarding operational risk. ■ Equity exposure in banking book (14) Risk management related to equity exposure in banking book With regard to equities in our banking book, we manage default risk through our credit risk management structure and price fluctuation risk through our market risk management structure. With regard to subsidiaries and related companies in which we invest, we manage their risks on a consolidated basis, and manage them appropriately in accordance with their management classification. In addition, securities, a part of equity exposure, are valued as follows: Japanese stocks with quoted market prices are valued based on the average quoted market price over the month preceding the consolidated balance sheet date; other securities which have readily determinable fair values are valued at the quoted market price if available, or otherwise based on their reasonable value at the consolidated balance sheet date (cost of securities sold is calculated primarily by the moving average method); and other securities the fair values of which are extremely difficult to determine are stated at acquisition cost or amortized cost and determined by the moving average method. 315 (15) Status of equity exposure in banking book (a) Amounts stated in consolidated balance sheet (Billions of yen) As of March 31, 2017 As of March 31, 2016 Consolidated Consolidated balance sheet balance sheet amount Fair value amount Fair value Exposure of listed stock, etc. ¥3,857.0 ¥4,031.5 ¥3,785.6 ¥3,964.7 Other equity exposure 400.3 / 441.8 / Total ¥4,257.4 ¥/ ¥4,227.5 ¥/ Note: The above figures include only Japanese and foreign stocks. (b) Gains and losses on sales related to equity exposure (Billions of yen) For the Fiscal year ended March 31, 2017 For the Fiscal year ended March 31, 2016 Gains and Gains and losses on Gains on Losses on losses on Gains on Losses on sales sales sales sales sales sales Sale of equity ¥261.1 ¥295.8 ¥34.7 ¥225.3 ¥271.1 ¥45.7 exposure Note: The above figures represent gains and losses on sales of stocks in our consolidated statement of income. (c) Gains and losses from write-offs related to equity exposure (Billions of yen) For the Fiscal year ended For the Fiscal year ended March 31, 2017 March 31, 2016 Gains and losses from writeGains and losses from writeoffs offs Write-offs of equity exposure ¥(4.8) ¥(10.3) Note: The above figures represent gains and losses on devaluation of stocks in our consolidated statement of income. (d) Unrealized gains and losses recognized in the consolidated balance sheet and not recognized in the consolidated statement of income (Billions of yen) As of March 31, 2017 As of March 31, 2016 Net unrealized Unrealized Unrealized Net unrealized Unrealized Unrealized gains gains losses gains gains losses Equity exposure ¥1,971.2 ¥2,017.1 ¥45.9 ¥1,751.2 ¥1,824.2 ¥73.0 Note: The above figures include only Japanese and foreign stocks. 316 Status of Capital Adequacy Status of Mizuho Financial Group’s Consolidated Capital Adequacy (e) Unrealized gains and losses not recognized in the consolidated balance sheet or in the consolidated statement of income (Billions of yen) As of March 31, 2017 As of March 31, 2016 Unrealized Unrealized Unrealized Unrealized Net gains losses Net gains losses Equity exposure ¥174.5 ¥182.8 ¥8.3 ¥179.1 ¥188.7 ¥9.6 Note: The above figures include only Japanese and foreign stocks. (f) Equities exposure by portfolio classification (Billions of yen) As of March 31, 2017 As of March 31, 2016 PD/LGD approach ¥4,180.1 ¥3,901 Market-based approach (simple risk weight 793.1 559 method) Market-based approach (internal models approach) Total ¥4,973.3 ¥4,461 317 ■Composition of Leverage Ratio (Millions of yen) Correspon Correspon ding line # ding line # on Basel on Basel As of March 31, As of March 31, III III Item 2017 2016 disclosure disclosure template template (Table 2) (Table 1) On-balance sheet exposures (1) On-balance sheet exposures before deducting adjustment 1 ¥174,146,451 ¥165,817,309 items 1a 1 Total assets reported in the consolidated balance sheet 200,508,610 193,458,580 The amount of assets of subsidiaries that are not included in 1b 2 the scope of the leverage ratio on a consolidated basis (-) The amount of assets of subsidiaries that are included in the scope of the leverage ratio on a consolidated basis (except 1c 7 those included in the total assets reported in the consolidated balance sheet) The amount of assets that are deducted from the total assets 1d 3 reported in the consolidated balance sheet (except 26,362,159 27,641,270 adjustment items) (-) 2 7 The amount of adjustment items pertaining to Tier1 capital (-) 1,296,500 827,836 3 Total on-balance sheet exposures (a) ¥172,849,950 ¥164,989,473 Exposures related to derivative transactions (2) Replacement cost associated with derivatives transactions, 4 2,454,674 2,981,601 etc. 5 Add-on amount associated with derivatives transactions, etc. 5,615,193 5,442,321 The amount of receivables arising from providing cash margin 1,038,620 935,595 in relation to derivatives transactions, etc. The amount of receivables arising from providing cash 6 margin, provided where deducted from the consolidated 204,188 137,668 balance sheet pursuant to the operative accounting framework The amount of deductions of receivables (out of those arising 7 from providing cash variation margin) (-) The amount of client-cleared trade exposures for which a 8 bank holding company acting as a clearing member is not / / obliged to make any indemnification (-) 9 Adjusted effective notional amount of written credit derivatives 1,882,691 2,382,713 The amount of deductions from effective notional amount of 10 1,705,729 2,149,991 written credit derivatives (-) 11 4 Total exposures related to derivative transactions (b) ¥9,489,638 ¥9,729,907 Exposures related to repo transactions (3) 12 The amount of assets related to repo transactions, etc 12,317,829 11,213,188 13 The amount of deductions from the assets above (line 12) (-) 5,179,456 4,973,078 The exposures for counterparty credit risk for repo 14 385,734 300,864 transactions, etc 15 The exposures for agent repo transactions / / 16 5 Total exposures related to repo transactions, etc. (c) ¥7,524,107 ¥6,540,975 Exposures related to off-balance sheet transactions (4) 17 Notional amount of off-balance sheet transactions 49,117,932 48,317,452 The amount of adjustments for conversion in relation to off18 31,579,950 31,095,649 balance sheet transactions (-) 19 6 Total exposures related to off-balance sheet transactions (d) ¥17,537,982 ¥17,221,802 Leverage ratio on a consolidated basis (5) 20 The amount of capital (Tier1 capital) (e) 8,211,522 7,905,093 21 8 Total exposures ((a)+(b)+(c)+(d)) (f) ¥207,401,679 ¥198,482,158 22 Leverage ratio on a consolidated basis ((e)/(f)) 3.95% 3.98% 318 Status of Capital Adequacy Status of Mizuho Financial Group’s Consolidated Capital Adequacy ■Indicators for assessing Global Systemically Important Banks (G-SIBs) (Billions of yen) Item As of March 31, Description No. 2017 1 Total exposures (= a + b + c + d): ¥208,698.1 a. On-balance sheet assets (other than assets specifically identified below b., c. and contraaccount of guarantees) b. Sum of counterparty exposure of derivatives contracts, capped notional amount of written credit derivatives and potential future exposure of derivatives contracts c. Adjusted gross value of securities financing transactions (SFTs) and counterparty exposure of SFTs d. Gross notional amount of off-balance sheet items (other than derivatives contracts and SFTs ) 2 Intra-financial system assets (= a + b + c + d): 12,248.4 a. Funds deposited with or lent to other financial institutions and undrawn committed lines extended to other financial institutions b. Holdings of securities issued by other financial institutions (Note 1) c. Net positive current exposure of SFTs with other financial institutions d. Over-the-counter (OTC) derivatives with other financial institutions that have a net positive fair value 3 Intra-financial system liabilities (=a + b + c): 20,482.5 a. Deposits due to, and loans and undrawn committed lines obtained from, other financial institutions b. Net negative current exposure of SFTs with other financial institutions c. OTC derivatives with other financial institutions that have a net negative fair value 4 Securities outstanding(Note 1) 24,386.5 5 Assets under custody 144,337.5 6 Notional amount of OTC derivatives 916,188.1 7 Held-for-trading(HFT) securities and available-for-sale(AFS) securities , excluding HFT and 9,728.9 AFS securities that meet the definition of Level 1 assets and Level 2 assets with haircuts (Note 2) 8 Level 3 assets (Note 3) 1,774.5 9 Cross-jurisdictional claims 44,852.9 10 Cross-jurisdictional liabilities 30,741.5 For the fiscal Item Description year ended No. March 31, 2017 11 Payments (settled through the BOJ-NET, the Japanese Banks' Payment Clearing Network ¥5,820,573.6 and other similar settlement systems, excluding intragroup payments) 12 Underwritten transactions in debt and equity markets (Note 4) 14,159.9 Notes: 1. Securities refer to secured debt securities, senior unsecured debt securities, subordinated debt securities, commercial paper, certificate of deposits, and common equities. 2. Level 1 and Level 2 assets with haircuts are defined in the Basel III Liquidity Coverage Ratio (LCR). 3. The amount is calculated in accordance with the U.S.GAAP. 4. This refers to underwriting of securities defined in article 2 paragraph 8 item 6 of the Financial Instruments and Exchange Act. 319 (Billions of yen) Item As of March 31, Description No. 2016 1 Total exposures (= a + b + c + d): ¥199,309.9 a. On-balance sheet assets (other than assets specifically identified below b., c. and contraaccount of guarantees) b. Sum of counterparty exposure of derivatives contracts, capped notional amount of written credit derivatives and potential future exposure of derivatives contracts c. Adjusted gross value of securities financing transactions (SFTs) and counterparty exposure of SFTs d. Gross notional amount of off-balance sheet items (other than derivatives contracts and SFTs ) 2 Intra-financial system assets (= a + b + c + d): 9,874.8 a. Funds deposited with or lent to other financial institutions and undrawn committed lines extended to other financial institutions b. Holdings of securities issued by other financial institutions (Note 1) c. Net positive current exposure of SFTs with other financial institutions d. Over-the-counter (OTC) derivatives with other financial institutions that have a net positive fair value 3 Intra-financial system liabilities (=a + b + c): 16,767.5 a. Deposits due to, and loans and undrawn committed lines obtained from, other financial institutions b. Net negative current exposure of SFTs with other financial institutions c. OTC derivatives with other financial institutions that have a net negative fair value 4 Securities outstanding(Note 1) 23,812.7 5 Assets under custody 137,050.5 6 Notional amount of OTC derivatives 1,043,267.0 7 Held-for-trading(HFT) securities and available-for-sale(AFS) securities , excluding HFT and 9,292.7 AFS securities that meet the definition of Level 1 assets and Level 2 assets with haircuts (Note 2) 8 Level 3 assets (Note 3) 1,543.7 9 Cross-jurisdictional claims 42,449.2 10 Cross-jurisdictional liabilities 31,615.7 For the fiscal Item Description year ended No. March 31, 2016 11 Payments (settled through the BOJ-NET, the Japanese Banks' Payment Clearing Network ¥6,789,919.1 and other similar settlement systems, excluding intragroup payments) 12 Underwritten transactions in debt and equity markets (Note 4) 10,155.1 Notes: 1. Securities refer to secured debt securities, senior unsecured debt securities, subordinated debt securities, commercial paper, certificate of deposits, and common equities. 2. Level 1 and Level 2 assets with haircuts are defined in the Basel III Liquidity Coverage Ratio (LCR). 3. The amount is calculated in accordance with the U.S.GAAP. 4. This refers to underwriting of securities defined in article 2 paragraph 8 item 6 of the Financial Instruments and Exchange Act. 320 Status of Capital Adequacy Status of Sound Management of Liquidity Risk ■Liquidity Coverage Ratio Liquidity standards agreed upon by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision require our liquidity coverage ratio to surpass the minimum standard starting March 31, 2015. We calculate our consolidated liquidity coverage ratio (the Consolidated LCR ) in accordance with the regulation The Evaluation Criterion on the Sound Management of Liquidity Risk Defined, Based on Banking Law Article 52-25, as One of Criteria for Bank Holding Companies to Evaluate the Soundness of Their Management and the Ones of Their Subsidiaries and Others, which is also One of Evaluation Criteria on the Soundness of the Banks' Management (the FSA Notice No. 62 of 2015 (the Notice No. 62 )). The information disclosed herein is in accordance with Matters Separately Prescribed by the Commissioner of the Financial Services Agency Regarding Status of Sound Management of Liquidity Risk , etc. pursuant to Article 19-2, Paragraph 1, Item 5, Sub-item (e) , etc. of the Ordinance for Enforcement of the Banking Law (Ministry of Finance Ordinance No. 7 of 2015) (the FSA Notice No. 7 of 2015(the Notice No. 7 )). The status of our sound management of liquidity risk is as follows: (In million yen, the number of data) Item For the three months ended March 31, 2017 For the three months ended December 31, 2016 High-Quality Liquid Assets (1) / / 1 Total high-quality liquid assets (HQLA) 59,034,682 56,300,150 TOTAL TOTAL WEIGHTED TOTAL TOTAL WEIGHTED Cash Outflows (2) UNWEIGHTED VALUE UNWEIGHTED VALUE 2 Cash outflows related to unsecured retail funding 44,679,227 3,575,055 44,377,937 3,552,550 3 of which, Stable deposits 12,789,510 383,685 12,681,362 380,440 4 of which, Less stable deposits 31,889,716 3,191,370 31,696,574 3,172,109 Cash outflows related to unsecured wholesale 5 71,707,171 44,568,652 66,285,674 39,750,546 funding 6 of which, Qualifying operational deposits 0 0 0 0 of which, Cash outflows related to unsecured 7 wholesale funding other than qualifying 66,106,699 38,968,180 61,995,372 35,460,243 operational deposits and debt securities 8 of which, Debt securities 5,600,471 5,600,471 4,290,302 4,290,302 9 Cash outflows related to secured funding, etc / 915,319 / 849,784 Cash outflows related to derivative transactions, 10 25,029,700 7,038,034 24,342,761 6,857,783 etc. funding programs, credit and liquidity facilities of which, Cash outflows related to derivatives 11 2,537,216 2,537,216 2,594,609 2,594,609 transactions, etc of which, Cash outflows related to funding 12 112,531 112,531 115,148 115,148 programs of which, Cash outflows related to credit and 13 22,379,952 4,388,287 21,633,003 4,148,025 liquidity facilities Cash outflows, etc. related to contractual funding 14 6,833,946 2,217,821 5,453,967 1,820,987 obligations 15 Cash outflows related to contingencies 72,712,059 692,538 72,215,545 662,945 16 Total cash outflows / 59,007,422 / 53,494,597 TOTAL TOTAL WEIGHTED TOTAL TOTAL WEIGHTED Cash Inflows (3) UNWEIGHTED VALUE UNWEIGHTED VALUE Cash inflows related to secured lending and 17 10,407,502 842,947 9,828,735 681,437 investments, etc. 18 Cash inflows related to collections of loans, etc 13,767,299 10,537,568 11,546,230 8,819,196 19 Other cash inflows 6,774,374 2,015,305 6,412,191 2,307,500 20 Total cash inflows 30,949,175 13,395,820 27,787,157 11,808,135 Consolidated liquidity coverage ratio (4) / / Total HQLA allowed to be included in the 21 / 59,034,682 / 56,300,150 calculation 22 Net cash outflows / 45,611,601 / 41,686,462 23 Consolidated liquidity coverage ratio / 129.4％ / 135.3％ The number of data used to calculate the average 24 61 3 value 321 Notes: 1. Item from 1 to 23 are quarterly average using data points as shown in item 24. Regarding the fourth quarter of the fiscal year ended March 31, 2017, the average daily value is disclosed based on the Notice No. 7. 2. We do not apply the exception regarding qualifying operational deposits in Article 28 of the Notice No. 62 with respect to item 6. 3. The numbers in item 11 include the amount of additional collateral required due to market valuation changes on derivatives transactions estimated by the historical lookback approach instead of scenario approach in Article 37 of the Notice No. 62. 4. There are no material components that necessitate detailed explanation of cash outflows from other contracts in Article 59 of the Notice No. 62 within item 14, cash outflows from other contingent funding obligations in Article 52 of the Notice No. 62 within item 15, cash inflows from other contracts in Article 72 of the Notice No. 62 within item 19. 5. Monthly data or quarterly data is used for some of the data, etc., concerning our consolidated subsidiaries. 2017 2016 2015 Jan-Mar Jan-Mar Apr-Jun Jul-Sep Oct-Dec Apr-Jun Jul-Sep Oct-Dec Consolidated LCR 129.4% 128.2% 135.1% 137.4% 135.3% 124.6% 128.4% 133.4% (quartely average) Our Consolidated LCR does not lead to any issues since it surpasses not only the minimum standard required under the liquidity regulation, but also the final regulatory standard (100%), with no significant change. LCR disclosed herein does not differ much from the level we expected beforehand, and we do not expect our Consolidated LCR in the future to deviate significantly from the current level. There are no significant changes in the composition, such as currency composition or type composition, and geographic distribution of the HQLA allowed to be included in the calculation. In addition, there is no significant currency mismatch which might affect our funding conditions between total amount of the HQLA allowed to be included in the calculation and net cash outflow regarding significant currencies. 322 Status of Capital Adequacy Status of Sound Management of Liquidity Risk ■ Status of Major Liquid Assets (Billions of yen) Item As of March 31, 2017 As of March 31, 2016 Cash and Due from Banks (including Due from Central Banks) ¥47,129.5 ¥36,315.4 Trading Securities 4,800.4 5,467.9 Securities 31,761.8 38,901.0 Bonds Held to Maturity 3,815.6 4,817.5 Other Securities 27,946.2 34,083.5 Japanese Stocks 3,542.0 3,457.6 Japanese Bonds 13,245.1 18,874.4 Japanese Government Bonds 10,264.3 15,765.8 Japanese Local Government Bonds 284.4 240.6 Japanese Corporate Bonds 2,696.3 2,867.9 Other 11,159.0 11,751.3 Foreign Bonds 8,955.4 9,719.5 Other 2,203.5 2,031.8 Total 83,691.8 80,684.5 Portion pledged as collateral (14,398.5) (17,774.1) Total after the deduction above ¥69,293.3 ¥62,910.3 Notes: 1. All securities included in the above table have fair value. 2. Portion pledged as collateral mainly consists of securities and others collateralized for borrowed money, foreign and domestic exchange transactions or derivatives transactions,or substituted for margins for futures transactions. 3. Figures in the above table do not represent high quality liquid assets under the Basel Ⅲ regulatory regime. ■ Status of Major Funding (Billions of yen) As of March 31, 2017 Types of Financial Instruments Within 1 year 1-3 years 3-5 years 5-7 years 7-10 years Over 10 years Deposits ¥115,871.8 ¥3,334.2 ¥696.7 ¥73.1 ¥60.5 ¥9.0 Negotiable Certificates of Deposit 10,421.6 150.6 60.1 Call Money and Bills Sold 1,255.2 Borrowed Money 604.6 3,095.1 1,542.0 338.6 377.8 305.0 Commercial Paper 226.3 Issued Bonds 1,414.8 1,486.1 1,331.4 564.0 1,401.0 588.9 Due to Trust Account 4,784.1 Total ¥134,578.5 ¥8,066.0 ¥3,630.2 ¥975.8 ¥1,839.2 ¥902.9 (Billions of yen) As of March 31, 2016 Types of Financial Instruments Within 1 year 1-3 years 3-5 years 5-7 years 7-10 years Over 10 years Deposits ¥101,245.1 ¥3,457.4 ¥778.4 ¥73.9 ¥74.1 ¥Negotiable Certificates of Deposit 11,691.8 76.0 60.3 Call Money and Bills Sold 2,521.0 Borrowed Money 1,381.1 4,279.0 934.7 206.0 309.4 329.0 Commercial Paper 648.3 Issued Bonds 813.5 1,914.1 1,079.9 518.4 768.0 693.3 Due to Trust Account 5,067.4 Total ¥123,368.6 ¥9,726.6 ¥2,853.5 ¥798.5 ¥1,151.6 ¥1,022.3 Notes: 1. Regarding Deposits, Demand deposits are included in Within 1 year 2. Borrowed money or issued bonds with open ended, 64.0 billion, 334.0 billion, respectively, at March 31, 2016, and 44.0 billion, 779.0 billion, respectively, at March 31, 2017, are excluded. 323 Status of Capital Adequacy Compensation of directors, corporate auditors and employees (16) Qualitative disclosure (a) State of the organizational system relating to compensation of Subject directors, corporate auditors and employees of Mizuho group 1. Scope of Subject directors, corporate auditors and employees Subject directors, etc. and Subject employees, etc. subject to disclosure as provided for in the FSA Notice (collectively, Subject directors, corporate auditors and employees ) are as follows: (1) Scope of Subject directors, etc. Subject directors, etc. are directors and executive officers as defined in the Companies Act of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. ( MHFG ). Outside directors auditors are excluded. (2) Scope of Subject employees, etc. Subject employees, etc. who are subject to disclosure are executive officers (as defined in our internal regulations), specialist officers and employees of MHFG and directors, corporate auditors and employees of its major consolidated subsidiaries, who are persons who receive large amounts of compensation and materially affect the operation of business or the state of assets of Mizuho group or its major consolidated subsidiaries. (a) Scope of Major consolidated subsidiaries A Major consolidated subsidiary is a consolidated subsidiary, etc., (i) whose total assets as a percentage of consolidated total assets exceeds 2% of a bank holding company or bank and (ii) who materially affects the management of our group. Specifically, those are Mizuho Bank, Ltd. ( MHBK ), Mizuho Bank (USA) and other subsidiaries who conduct banking business similar to a branch of MHBK, Mizuho Trust & Banking Co., Ltd. ( MHTB ), Mizuho Securities Co., Ltd. ( MHSC ), Trust & Custody Services Bank, Ltd., Mizuho Securities USA Inc. and Mizuho International Plc. (b) Scope of Persons who receive large amounts of compensation A Person who receives large amounts of compensation refers to a person who receives compensation that exceeds the base amount from MHFG or its major consolidated subsidiaries. The base amount at MHFG has been set at ¥50 million. Such base amount has been set based on the average amounts of the compensation of directors, executive officers (as defined in the Companies Act) and corporate auditors of MHFG, MHBK and MHTB for the last three fiscal years (excluding persons who resigned or retired during each of such fiscal years), taking into account fluctuations in amounts of compensation over past fiscal years. The preceding base amount has been adopted as the common base in order to unify the selection criteria of persons who receive large amounts of compensation at each of the companies in this paragraph. (c) Scope of Persons who materially affect the operation of business or the state of assets of Mizuho group A Person who materially affects the operation of business or the state of assets of Mizuho group means a person who exerts significant influence on the operation of the business of MHFG or a major consolidated subsidiary through his or her work in conducting transactions or management, or who materially affects the state of assets by incurring losses on transactions. Specifically, it includes executive officers (as defined in our internal regulations) and specialist officers of MHFG and directors, corporate auditors, executive officers (as defined in our internal regulations), specialist officers and market department employees of major consolidated subsidiaries. 2. Decisions on compensation of Subject directors, corporate auditors and employees (1) Decisions on compensation of subject directors, etc. MHFG is a Company with Three Committees, and has established the Compensation Committee as a statutory committee. The chairman of the statutory Compensation Committee shall be an outside director, and in principle its members shall be appointed from among the outside directors (or at least non-executive directors) in order to ensure objectivity and transparency in director and executive officer compensation. As of March 2017, all four members of the Compensation Committee, including the chairman, were outside directors. The Compensation Committee shall determine the basic policy and compensation system for directors and executive officers of MHFG, MHBK, MHTB and MHSC, determine the compensation for each individual director and executive officer (as defined in the Companies Act) of MHFG, and exercise approval rights in MHFG for compensation for each individual director of MHBK, MHTB and MHSC. In addition, the president of each of MHBK, MHTB and MHSC determines the amount of compensation for each of its executive officers and specialist officers. 324 Status of Capital Adequacy Compensation of directors, corporate auditors and employees (2) Decisions on compensation of Subject employees, etc. Matters relating to executive officers (as defined in our internal regulations) and specialist officers of MHFG and directors, executive officers (as defined in our internal regulations) and specialist officers of MHBK, MHTB and MHSC are as set out in (1) Decisions on compensation of subject directors and corporate auditors. With regard to the compensation of corporate auditors of MHBK, MHTB and MHSC, it is determined pursuant to consultation among corporate auditors, including outside corporate auditors, and set within the scope of the total amount of compensation of corporate auditors resolved at ordinary general meetings of a shareholder. The compensation of subject employees, etc., is decided and paid in accordance with the salary and bonus system established by MHFG and the major consolidated subsidiaries. Such system is designed and put into writing by the human resources departments of MHFG and the major consolidated subsidiaries which are independent of departments furthering business. In terms of the compensation of overseas employees, each overseas office or operation determines its own compensation policy based on local laws and regulations as well as employment relationships. 3. Decisions on compensation of employees in risk management departments, compliance departments and internal audit departments The compensation of employees in risk management departments, compliance departments and internal audit departments is decided in accordance with the salary and bonus system, and specific payment amounts are conclusively determined in accordance with employee performance evaluations made by the relevant department and the human resources department, independent from departments furthering business. Each employee of the risk management departments, the compliance departments and the internal audit departments sets their own items for evaluation in the employee performance evaluations, subject to the approval of their superiors. The degree to which the items are fulfilled is evaluated taking into account the degree of the employee's contribution to risk-management, compliance and internal audit. 4. Total amount of compensation paid to members of the compensation committee and number of meetings held by the Compensation Committee Number of meetings held (April 2016 – March 2017) Compensation Committee 13 (MHFG) Note: The total amount of compensation is not set out above as it is not possible to separately calculate the amounts that are paid as consideration for the execution of duties by the compensation committee. (b) Evaluating the appropriateness of the design and operation of the system relating to compensation of subject directors, corporate auditors, and employees of Mizuho group 1. Policies relating to compensation (1) Policies relating to compensation of subject directors, executive officers and corporate auditors The Mizuho Financial Group Compensation Policy sets out the policy concerning the determination of compensation for each individual director, executive officer as defined in the Companies Act, executive officer as defined in our internal regulations and specialist officer ( Directors, etc. ) of MHFG, MHBK, MHTB and MHSC. a. Purpose of the Policy Executive compensation for MHFG, MHBK, MHTB and MHSC pursuant to such policy aims to function as incentive and compensation for each officer to exercise the designated function to the fullest with respect to striving to realize management with consideration to value creation for various stakeholders and improve corporate value through continuous and stable corporate growth based on our basic management policies under our Corporate Identity. b. Basic Policy The basic policy with respect to the determination concerning the individual compensation of Directors, etc., of MHFG, MHBK, MHTB and MHSC is set forth below: (i) The executive compensation shall be based on the function and responsibility assigned to and the performance of each of the Directors, etc. (ii) The executive compensation shall give consideration to improving corporate value and creating value for various stakeholders over the medium to long term. 325 (iii) The executive compensation shall reflect the management environment and business performance of our group. (iv) The executive compensation shall enable compensation for securing expert personnel such as professionals with a competitive edge in the market. (v) The compensation system and standards shall be reevaluated based on such factors as the economic and social conditions and survey data with respect to management compensation provided by external specialized organizations. (vi) Regulations and guidelines, etc., concerning executive compensation, both in Japan and overseas, shall be complied with. c. Compensation System I. The compensation system for executive officers as defined in the Companies Act (including executive officers who are directors), executive officers as defined in our internal regulations and specialist officers of MHFG and directors, executive officers and specialist officers of MHBK, MHTB and MHSC responsible for business execution ( Officers Responsible for Business Execution ) shall be separate from that for the non-executive directors of MHFG and the directors of MHBK, MHTB and MHSC responsible for management supervision ( Non-Executive Officers Responsible for Management Supervision ). II. The basic compensation system for Officers Responsible for Business Execution shall consist of basic salaries in the form of fixed compensation as well as variable compensation consisting of performance payments and performance-based stock compensation. The ratio of fixed compensation to variable compensation, the range of variable compensation based on business performance and the payment method shall be designated in light of sound incentivization for sustainable growth and restraint on excessive risk taking, while taking into account regulations and guidelines as well as research data, etc., both in Japan and overseas, concerning executive compensation. In principle, the ratio of fixed to variable compensation shall be 6 to 4 and the ratio of performance payments to performance-based stock compensation shall be 1 to 1, based on which the standard amount shall be calculated for each position. The variable compensation shall reflect each officer’s performance within the range of 0% to 150% of the standard amount for each position. The basic salaries, the performance payments and the performance-based stock compensation as well as the payment methods, etc., are in principle as set forth below: (i) The basic salaries shall factor in each officer’s function and responsibility in addition to the standard amount for each position. (ii) The performance payments shall be monetary made as officers’ incentive to achieve the annual budget and as compensation for their achievement. The payment thereof shall reflect each officer’s performance in addition to the standard amount for each position. A system shall be adopted which enables a certain amount of deferred payments of the performance payments over three years, as well as a decrease or forfeiture of the deferred amount depending on performance of the company and such officer. (iii) The performance-based stock compensation shall be paid in the form of shares of common stock of MHFG acquired from the stock market through a trust with an aim to align officers’ interests with those of the shareholders and increase the incentive to enhance corporate value. The payment thereof shall reflect each officer’s performance in addition to the standard amount for each position. A system shall be adopted which enables the entire amount of deferred payments of the performance-based stock compensation over three years, as well as a decrease or forfeiture of the deferred amount depending on performance, etc., of the company and such officer. (iv) The variable compensation intended for professional personnel, etc., appointed from outside the group shall be individually designed based on the duties and characteristics of business responsibilities and market values, etc., of each officer, a system which enables certain amount or a portion of deferred payments and non-monetary payments such as stock, as well as a decrease or forfeiture (clawback) of the deferred amount depending on the performance, etc., of the company and such personnel. III. The compensation for Non-Executive Officers Responsible for Management Supervision, in principle, shall be in the form of fixed compensation from the perspective of ensuring the effectiveness of the supervisory function and shall consist of basic salaries and stock compensations. (i) The basic salaries shall factor in each officer’s function and responsibilities in addition to the standard amount for each of the full-time and part-time non-executive officers. (ii) The stock compensation shall be paid to full-time internal directors excluding outside directors in accordance with the standard amount based on each position. However, the payment standards shall not fluctuate depending on each director’s level of performance. A system shall be adopted which enables the entire amount of deferred payments of the stock compensation over three years, as well as a decrease or forfeiture of the deferred amount depending on performance, etc., of the company. 326 Status of Capital Adequacy Compensation of directors, corporate auditors and employees d. Compensation Determination Process I. The Compensation Committee shall determine the determination policy of executive compensation for MHFG, MHBK, MHTB and MHSC. In addition, the Compensation Committee shall determine the compensation for each individual director and executive officer of MHFG and approve at MHFG the compensation of each individual director of MHBK, MHTB and MHSC. II. The President & Executive Officer, pursuant to this policy and regulations and detailed rules, etc., shall determine the compensation for each executive officer as defined in our internal regulations and specialist officer of MHFG and approve at MHFG the compensation of each individual executive officer and specialist officer of MHBK, MHTB and MHSC. III. All members of the Compensation Committee shall be appointed from among outside directors (or at least nonexecutive directors) and the chairman thereof shall be an outside director. IV. The Compensation Committee, where necessary, may have officers who are not members of the committee (including officers of MHBK, MHTB and MHSC) such as the President & Executive Officer and external experts, etc., attend its meetings and request their opinion. (2) Policies relating to compensation of subject employees, etc. The policies relating to compensation for executive officers (as defined in our internal regulations) and specialist officers of MHFG and directors, executive officers (as defined in our internal regulations) and specialist officers of MHBK, MHTB and MHSC are also the same as the policies described in (1) Policies relating to compensation of subject directors and corporate auditors above. The compensation of corporate auditors is determined pursuant to consultation among corporate auditors, including outside corporate auditors, and set within the scope of the total amount of compensation of corporate auditors resolved at ordinary general meetings of a shareholder. Compensation for other employees, etc., is determined in accordance with their duties and responsibilities. Some bonuses that are linked to performance are determined after comprehensively evaluating the employee’s contribution to business, including any qualitative contributions to the organization, in a manner that does not place an excessive emphasis on results. 2. The effect of the overall level of compensation, etc., on equity capital The Compensation Committee of MHFG receives reports on the amount of compensation paid to directors, executive officers (as defined in the Companies Act), executive officers (as defined in our internal regulations) and specialist officers of MHFG, MHBK, MHTB and MHSC in the previous fiscal year and confirms that there is no material effect on the Mizuho group’s performance or the adequacy of equity capital. (c) Compatibility between system for compensation of subject directors, corporate auditors and employees of Mizuho group and risk management and matters relating to linking compensation with performance The performance payments and performance-based stock compensation for Officers Responsible for Business Execution are made or paid based on the standard amount set for each position, with which each officer’s performance shall be reflected, and determined in accord with a performance evaluation, etc., against the annual business plan. A certain amount of the performance payments and the entire amount of the performance-based stock compensation shall be made or paid in deferred payments over three years, and a decrease or forfeiture of the deferred amount may be made depending on the performance, etc., of the company and such officer. It should be noted that certain subject directors, corporate auditors and employees have entered into compensation-related contracts. Stock compensation for Non-Executive Officers Responsible for Management Supervision shall be made in according with the standard amount set for each position, and the payment level shall not change based on the performance of each officer. The entire amount of the stock compensation shall be paid in deferred payments over three years, and a decrease or forfeiture of the deferred amount may be made depending on the performance, etc., of the company. 327 (17) Quantitative disclosure items (a) Matters relating to types and total amounts of, and payment method for, compensation of subject directors, corporate auditors, and employees of Mizuho group ─Total amount of the compensation, etc., of subject directors, corporate auditors and employees─ (Millions of yen) For the fiscal year ended March 31, 2017 Stock Total amount of compensationNumber of Total amount of fixed Base type stock Stock persons compensation compensation compensation options Compensation Others Subject directors and corporate auditors (excluding outside 23 1,453 953 925 26 1 directors and outside corporate auditors) Subject employees, etc. 355 30,024 13,338 12,019 12 1,306 Overseas 301 26,479 11,518 10,213 1,304 employees, etc. (Millions of yen) For the fiscal year ended March 31, 2017 Total amount of Performancevariable Base Performance based stock Retirement compensation compensation Bonus payment compensation Others benefits Others Subject directors and corporate auditors (excluding outside 500 251 249 directors and outside corporate auditors) Subject employees, etc. 15,555 14,336 816 402 1,130 Overseas employees, 13,846 13,383 422 40 1,113 etc. Notes: 1. Amounts of compensation of subject directors and corporate auditors include amounts of compensation received for duties performed as a director or corporate auditor of a major consolidated subsidiary. 2. For the number of person, the actual number of persons (a) for the compensation for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2017 and (b) for the compensation for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2016 for the payments made or anticipated payments for which the amount became clear during the fiscal year ended March 31, 2017 are stated. 3. The stated amount is the total amount for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2017 and the fiscal year ended March 31, 2016. 4.Total amount of fixed compensation includes ¥39 million of deferred compensation that arose during the fiscal year ended March 31, 2017 (subject directors and corporate auditors: ¥26 million; subject employees, etc.: ¥12 million). The amount of fixed compensation deferred prior to the fiscal year ended March 31, 2017 and paid during the fiscal year ended March 31, 2017 was ¥429 million (subject directors and corporate auditors: ¥297 million; subject employees, etc: ¥131 million), and the outstanding amount of the deferred fixed compensation as of March 31, 2017 was ¥ 1,323 million (subject directors and corporate auditors: ¥457 million; subject employees, etc.: ¥866 million). 5. The total amount of variable compensation includes ¥4,405 million of deferred compensation that arose during the fiscal year ended March 31, 2017 (subject directors and corporate auditors: ¥255 million; subject employees, etc.: ¥4,149 million). The amount of variable compensation deferred prior to the fiscal year ended March 31, 2017 and paid during the fiscal year ended March 31, 2017 was ¥2,552 million (subject employees, etc.: ¥2,552 million), and the outstanding amount of deferred variable compensation as of March 31, 2017 was ¥7,990 million (subject directors and corporate auditors: ¥255 million; subject employees, etc.: ¥7,735 million). 6. Total amount of compensation for subject employees, etc., includes ¥680 million of allowance for termination and resignation (number of subject persons: 12), multi-year guarantees of bonus of ¥258 million (number of subject persons: 1), signing bonus of ¥265 million (number of subject persons: 5), and housing allowance of ¥17 million (number of subject persons: 8). 7. Regarding performance payment, the recorded amount for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2016 for directors, executive officers (as defined in the Companies Act) and executive officers (as defined in our internal regulations) of MHFG, MHBK, MHTB and MHSC is stated. For portions that exceed certain amount, we plan to defer payment over the three-year period from the fiscal year ending March 31, 2018. 8. With respect to stock compensation and performance-based stock compensation, for the directors, executive officers (as defined in the Companies Act) and executive officers (as defined in our internal regulations) of MHFG, MHBK, MHTB and MHSC, the amount stated is obtained by multiplying the stock ownership points (with one point to be converted into one share of MHFG stock) granted for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2016 by the book value of MHFG's shares (158.6789 yen per share). For stock compensation and performance-based stock compensation for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2016, we plan to defer payment over the three-year period from the fiscal year ending March 31, 2018. 9. Because the amounts of the stock compensation, performance payment, and performance-based-type stock compensation for the directors, executive officers (as defined in the Companies Act), executive officers (as defined in our internal regulations) and specialist officers of MHFG, MHBK, MHTB and MHSC for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2017 have not been determined at this time, they are not included in the above compensation. However, we have recorded the required reserves for accounting purposes. 328 Status of Capital Adequacy Compensation of directors, corporate auditors and employees 10. The exercise periods for the stock compensation-type stock options (stock acquisition rights) are as set out below. Under the stock option agreements, exercise of the options is postponed, even during the exercise period, until the time of retirement of the director or employee. Exercise Period First Series of Stock Acquisition Rights of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. from February 17, 2009 to February 16, 2029 Second Series of Stock Acquisition Rights of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. from September 28, 2009 to September 25, 2029 Third Series of Stock Acquisition Rights of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. from August 27, 2010 to August 26, 2030 Fourth Series of Stock Acquisition Rights of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. from December 9, 2011 to December 8, 2031 Fifth Series of Stock Acquisition Rights of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. from September 3, 2012 to August 31, 2032 Sixth Series of Stock Acquisition Rights of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. from February 18, 2014 to February 17, 2034 Seventh Series of Stock Acquisition Rights of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. from December 2, 2014 to December 1, 2034 (b) Other relevant matters relating to our system of compensation for subject directors, corporate auditors and employees of Mizuho group Not applicable, other than those covered in the above. 329 Website Information useful to our customers can be found on our websites including company information and introductions of business operations at group companies. Moreover, information on IR, finance, exchange rates and branch guidance, various financial products and services, as well as industrial and economic reports are available. Also, you can obtain all news release announced by Mizuho Financial Group with registration for “News Release E-mail Distribution Service.” ‌https://www.mizuho-fg.com/ Corporate Responsibility Investor Relations Corporate Responsibility Investor Relations Gain insights into our approach to CSR. Access reports, presentations, news, and other investor resources and get details on upcoming events. ‌‌https://www.mizuho-fg.com/csr/ ‌‌https://www.mizuho-fg.com/investors/ 2017 Integrated Report 330 Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. 1-5-5, Otemachi, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo 100-8176, Japan +81-(0)3-5224-1111 https://www.mizuho-fg.com/
