Evolving sustainably with digitalisation: targets, measures, outcomes TELEKOM AUSTRIA GROUP SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2016/2017 Digitalisation is about to fundamentally change entire economic sectors and business models as well as societal and personal conventions with enormous dynamism and it will do so in an evolutionarily disruptive way. This ‘Dvolution’ also harbours considerable advantages from a social and ecological point of view — for instance by promoting equal opportunities within the context of access to information, education and knowledge. In particular, however, since digitalisation preserves resources and protects the environment in general, it is conducive to more sustainable forms of business, living and consumption. NETWORK & CUSTOMERS EMPLOYEES In its role as a driver of digitalisation and beyond the Digitalisation is accompanied by a profound change of provision of connectivity and bandwidth, Telekom the foundations and methods of working. This includes Austria Group provides entire industries, business the question of how employees interact within the models and societal as well as personal areas company as well as with customers, suppliers and other of life with a wide range of positive development stakeholders. Telekom Austria Group actively promotes possibilities. PAGE 18 the competences required. PAGE 30 ENVIRONMENT SOCIETY Information and communications technologies can By providing the technological basis and educational contribute to a more ecological and thus, sustainable, offers for an equal, digital access to information, style of life. For it is important to find innovative education and knowledge, Telekom Austria Group not solutions for challenges such as climate change. only serves as a responsible member of our society, but PAGE 24 also as an element bridging gaps. PAGE 38 D V O LU T I O N / T H E FO U R A C T I O N A R E A S 2 TELEKOM AUSTRIA GROUP’S CONTRIBUTION TO THE SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS In 2015, the members of the United Nations adopted targets for a sustainable development (Sustainable Development Goals or SDG) on economic, social and ecological levels. These goals have come into effect on 1 January 2016 and will remain valid for 15 years (until 2030). Politics, the civil society and the economy work together on their implementation. Telekom Austria Group is making significant contributions to the following SDGs: SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS Assuring fair, inclusive Promoting steady, Creating a powerful and Reducing inequality Assuring sustainable and high-quality broad and sustainable robust infrastructure, within and between patterns of consumption education and life-long economic growth, promoting broad and nations. and production. learning possibilities. productive full-time sustainable industrialemployment as well as isation and supporting humane work for all. innovation. TELEKOM AUSTRIA GROUP’S CONTRIBUTION: DIGITALISATION & PROMOTING INNOVATION Telekom Austria Group Telekom Austria Group Telekom Austria Group Telekom Austria Group Telekom Austria Group promotes life-long learnoffers its employees fair also continuously supports opportunities relies on waste prevening and media literacy and flexible work enviadvances the expansion of equal access to digital tion and the recycling development through ronments, promotes their of its network infrastrucmedia for all people. of valuable raw materials. free trainings in the health and implements ture. It thereby focusses Furthermore, it offers At the same time, the framework of the Groupmeasures to increase on network quality and digital solutions with Group takes into account wide Internet for All diversity and fight discrimireliability. social added value. ecological standards initiative. nation. By enabling digitaliwhen expanding its sation it promotes a decounetwork and works pling of economic growth on standard product and resource consumption. solutions. S U S TA I N A B L E D E V E LO P M E N T G O A L S 3 TELEKOM AUSTRIA GROUP GEOGRAPHICAL PRESENCE 102-2, 102-4, 102-6, 102-7 As a leading communication provider in the CEE region employing 18,203 people, Telekom Austria Group offers its approximately 24 million customers on seven markets communication solutions, payment and entertainment services as well as integrated business solutions. Its state-of-the-art broadband infrastructure enables a digital lifestyle and allows customers, companies and devices to become part of a network at any time and in any place. BLR AUT SLO CRO SRB BUL MKD AUS TRIA BULGARIA CROATIA BELARUS A1 Mobiltel Vipnet velcom Revenue: 2,575.5 EUR mn Revenue: 412.0 EUR mn Revenue: 398.3 EUR mn Revenue: 321.0 EUR mn Employees: 8,352 Employees: 3,808 Employees: 1,288 Employees: 2,248 CO2: 26,320 t CO2: 52,995 t CO2: 28,593 t CO2: 30,926 t SLOVENIA REPUBLIC OF SERBIA REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA A1 Slovenija Vip mobile one.Vip Revenue: 214.1 EUR mn Revenue: 221.1 EUR mn Revenue: 119.4 EUR mn Employees: 532 Employees: 917 Employees: 822 CO2: 6,206 t CO2: 33,763 t CO2: 26,653 t Figures as of 31 December 2016. Employees in full-time equivalents. Revenues referencing on the full year 2016. As of Q1 2016, the Telekom Austria Group changed its reporting structure to be fully aligned with América Móvil. The renaming of Si.mobil d.d. in A1 Slovenija, d.d. in the course of the rebranding became effective in April 2017. CO2 includes Scope 1 and Scope 2 market-based emissions. Scope 1 includes direct emissions from combustion of fossils fuels for heating, electricity production and mobility but does not including cooling agents. Scope 2 measures indirect emissions from electric energy and district heating. CO2 in CO2 equivalents excluding compensation. CONTENT NETWORK & CUSTOMERS More than an ICT provider: 18 Empowering Digital Life The roadmap 22 Thinking globally, leading regionally 23 Preface by the 6 Management Board Empowering Digital Life 7 ENVIRONMENT Digitalisation benefitting mankind 24 and the environment SUSTAINABILITY The roadmap 28 MANAGEMENT Thinking globally, leading regionally 29 Sustainable, systematic goals 9 Topic identification in the context 10 of sustainability Telekom Austria Group's 11 value chain The four strategic action areas 12 Sustainable management 14 Playing it safe when it comes 15 EMPLOYEES to data privacy Team, Trust, Agility 30 Compliance 15 The roadmap 36 Sustainability has its roots prior 17 Thinking globally, leading regionally 37 to the core business APPENDIX GRI Content Index 44 Data appendix 48 SOCIETY Assurance statement 53 Bridging digital, societal divides 38 Report details 55 The roadmap 42 Imprint & contact 56 Thinking globally, leading regionally 43 CO N T E N T 5 D(E)VOLUTION? In the context of cultural change, the title of our latest sustainability report denominates the elimination or replacement of traditional habits. Figuratively speaking, this more than applies to digitalisation which can be seen as a kind of current digital evolution. It is no less than a mega trend of our time. Not entirely new, but extremely dynamic and — in more than one sense — characterised by sustainability. We can thereby not Consequently, Telekom Austria Group commits to the targets even decide whether we want to participate or not. For it will of the triple bottom line of sustainable development (‘People, take place with or without us, and will without a shadow of Planet, Profit’) — and not just because they secure its business a doubt shape our living conditions and development possiactivity in the long run, but also because it makes its managebilities. ment actively assume societal and environmental responsibility. The company’s express commitment to the UN Global Because of its evolutionary and even disruptive effects, digitalCompact follows along the same line. Furthermore, Telekom isation is about to fundamentally change entire industries and Austria Group has evaluated to which of the 17 targets pursuing business models as well as societal and personal conventions. a sustainable economical, social and ecological development No wonder then that it is often referred to as the fourth passed by the United Nations in 2015 (Sustainable Developindustrial revolution or Industry 4.0. In this context, we also ment Goals or SDG) it can contribute with its initiatives (see frequently encounter the terms Internet of Things, virtual page 3). reality, artificial intelligence, and big data. To make sure such sustainability activity can unfold its It is obvious that information and communications technology maximum potential from the perspective of its stakeholders, plays a decisive role in this development. Also, it holds great Telekom Austria Group conducted another materiality potential — not only for a telecommunications provider such analysis in the spring of 2017 (see page 10). Highlights of the as Telekom Austria Group offering the foundations for such Group’s CSR commitment such as Internet for All which — applications by providing infrastructure and connectivity. with 124,000 participations — far exceeded its targets for 2016 Overall, digitalisation brings about immense opportunities were based on the action areas and objectives derived from for economic growth as well as varied ways of societal and said analysis. Moreover, it will continue to consistently work individual development. At the same time, it shows where less on improving its energy efficiency (2016 by 45 %). may in fact represent progress: It promotes a more efficient, resource-saving and therefore more sustainable way of working When it comes to employees, it not only introduced a Groupand living in the interest of both people and the environment. wide social media tool to further cooperation and know-how exchange (‘Workplace’, see page 32) in the year under review, In the course of its transformation from a traditional telecombut also subjected the company’s corporate culture and one munications provider to an ideal digitalisation partner, of its core elements, the ‘Guiding Principles’ (see page 36), Telekom Austria Group, too, has committed to more efficiency, a quasi ‘digital evolution’ in 2016: They now also follow our flexibility, security and sustainability. The latter plays a concommon purpose of ‘Empowering Digital Life’. siderable role in this context, not least because of the fact that 102-14 consumption of digital instead of physical experience and interaction offerings can make significant contributions to resource conservation and environmental protection. In this sense, a sustainable ‘cultural change’ towards ‘using instead of owning’ and substituting physical resources such as hardware and data carriers with virtual resources such as cloud solutions mark a positive ‘devolution’ in the spirit of the report’s title. ALEJANDRO PLATER, CEO & COO SIEGFRIED MAYRHOFER, CFO P R E FA C E B Y T H E M A N A G E M E N T B O A R D 6 EMPOWERING DIGITAL LIFE: TELEKOM AUSTRIA GROUP’S STRATEGIC DIRECTION Telekom Austria AG and its subsidiaries (‘Telekom Austria over and over again but to swiftly roll out proven products Group’ with headquarters in Vienna) are leading providers of on other markets (‘one to many’). Internally, the strategy’s fixed-line and mobile communication services serving some implementation builds upon the Guiding Principles within 24 million fixed-line and mobile communication customers in the corporate culture: Team, Trust and Agility (see Employees, seven Middle and Eastern European countries. page 30). Through its majority owner América Móvil, Telekom Austria In all its strategic initiatives, Telekom Austria Group’s conGroup has been part of a world-leading, multi-national servative financial strategy always presupposes maintaining telecommunications corporation since 2014. As a member of the investment grade ratings Baa2 from Moody’s and BBB this group of companies operating globally, Telekom Austria from Standard & Poor’s. This central priority, in turn, also Group capitalises on effects of scale and synergies, among applies to the corporate strategy’s core elements. others in the areas of product development, technology and purchasing. In terms of increasing efficiency, optimising the core business and expanding the product portfolio, the sustainaFollowing its guiding principle of Empowering Digital Life, bility strategy is tied to the corporate strategy. In this Telekom Austria Group presents itself as the perfect partner context, sustainability is regarded as a long-term value for the economy and society in the age of digital transfordriver which — besides actively embodied ecological and mation. Its self-image as a driver of digitalisation therefore societal responsibility — also yields economic benefits, represents an important element in Telekom Austria Group’s for instance through increased energy efficiency which strategic direction. Its strategic direction (see graphic, page 8) reduces environmental impacts as well as costs. aims at optimising its core business, expanding its product portfolio and launching targeted M&A activities. Cost and The telecommunication market offers a wide range of attracinvestment efficiency is the crucial premise dominating tive opportunities. High-quality and high-performance comall strategic targets and decisions. munications solutions make both professional and private life easier and more efficient. At the same time, a massive In its growth strategy, the Group not only builds on its leading increase in data traffic, rapid technological progress and role in the CEE region but — as part of América Móvil — also relies on the strength of one of the largest telecommunicaTELEKOM AUSTRIA AG SHAREHOLDER tions providers in the world, serving 280 million customers in STRUCTURE AS PER 31 DECEMBER 2016 the mobile communications sector alone. Operational excellence is paramount when it comes to the corporate strategy’s América Móvil1 51.00 % implementation, in order to have the right financial leeway ÖBIB (Republic of Austria)2 28.42 % for investments at one’s disposal. All structures and proWidespread shareholdings including employee shares and own shares 20.58 % cesses as well as investment decisions are therefore constantly reviewed and questioned. The Group routinely pursues 102-5 improvements to ways of thinking and work methods to 1) As per notice in accordance with §§ 91 ff Austrian Stock Exchange Act dated become more efficient every day. Telekom Austria Group’s 29 July 2016 as well as América Móvil press release dated 22 August 2016. cross-market target is to not keep redeveloping products 2) As per registration for annual meeting on 25 May 2016. E M P O W E R I N G D I G I TA L L I F E 7 strong customer demand for first-class network and service climate and environmental change as well as societal framequality pose corresponding challenges. These require ongoing work conditions can also influence corporate development. and massive investments and place high demands on perforTo prepare for such risks in a timely manner, a central risk mance capabilities and therefore, also on the infrastructure’s management constantly monitors respective developments energy requirements. Thus, Telekom Austria Group not only and implements appropriate counter measures when and faces market risks such as intense competition, unstable if required. More information on the risk management at: economic momentum and regulatory market intervention, www.telekomaustria.com/en/ir/annual-reports putting pressure on prices and profitability. Progressing 102-1, 102-2, 102-3, 102-4, 102-7, 102-10 ECONOMIC FIGURES OF TELEKOM AUSTRIA GROUP3) Market Operating capitalisation (in EUR mn) Revenue EBITDA 4) income Net result Equity (in EUR bn) 5) 2016 4,211.5 1,354.3 486.7 413.2 2,770.7 3.7 (in EUR mn) 2015 4,125.3 1,368.7 571.7 392.8 2,426.0 3.4 (in %) Change 2.1 –1.1 –14.9 5.2 14.2 11.2 102-5 3) From the first quarter of 2016 forward, Telekom Austria Group’s reporting structure follows that of América Móvil. The comparison period of 2015 was adapted accordingly. For details see: www.telekomaustria.com/en/ir/new-reporting-structure 4) The key figure EBITDA is defined as the annual result not including financial result, profits taxes, write-offs and — if applicable — impairments / reversals. 5) As of 31 December 2016 E M P O W E R I N G D I G I TA L L I F E 8 SUSTAINABLE, SYSTEMATIC GOALS Digitalisation brings about immense opportuprioritised in accordance with social, economic and ecological nities for economic growth as well as varied aspects. Every action area is supported by clear targets and specific key figures. In 2015, new goals for 2018 were worked ways of societal and individual development. out and codified. At the same time, it furthers efficient, resource-conservation and thus more sustainAs a result of another materiality analysis in the spring of 2017, the topics of data security and protection as well as commuable way of working and living that benefits nication infrastructure emerged as the most important ones. mankind and its environment. Telekom Compared to the materiality analysis conducted in 2015, the Austria Group’s sustainability strategy aims topic of data security and protection has gained in importance. at consistently tapping said potentials. Both customers and suppliers rank this topic as the most significant one. Employees, on the other hand, regard fair and flexible working as the most important topic. Overall, stakeholders give topics such as waste and employee health less priority. When compared to 2015’s, the methods of 2017’s survey have changed in that one can now better differentiate between individual topics. 2017’s materiality analysis furthermore put greater emphasis on impacts when compared with A standardised system is needed to display sustainability initi2015’s. A complete comparison is not entirely possible since atives and progress in a transparent way and on a comparable the results of 2017’s materiality analysis have been illustrated basis (periodic, business and industry comparisons). Such a in a different way. system also provides a valid basis for certification and audit certificates. The following definitions of terms and processes Telekom Austria Group engages in continuous dialogue with therefore reference to the recommendations and requirements its stakeholders. This exchange takes place on three levels: of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI; sustainability reporting Through systematic information via various information standard) as well as the annual progress report as laid down in channels, through talks and surveys as well as by giving them the UN Global Compact. the chance to actively participate through memberships and partnerships. Depending on topic and group, different formats The starting point of Telekom Austria Group’s systematic such as informational events, idea competitions or surveys approach to sustainability management is the three-pillar conducted with customers or employees are used. However, model of sustainable development, the triple bottom line of personal talks with suppliers, customers or NGOs are also People, Planet and Profit. Its understanding of responsibility employed in the framework of meetings, conferences or road thus includes social, ecological and economic factors. Telekom shows. 102-43, 102-44, 102-49 Austria Group furthermore supports the development goals ratified in 2015 by the United Nations (Sustainable Development Goals, SDG) by means of targeted activities (see page 3). The Group’s sustainability strategy focusses on four strategic action areas derived from a comprehensive materiality AWARD analysis (see page 10). By means of a stakeholder survey, 1st place in the category Socially Responsible Brand (velcom) topics relevant to the company were thereby analysed and S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y M A N A G E M E N T 9 IDENTIFYING TOPICS IN THE CONTEXT OF SUSTAINABILITY 102-40, 102-43, 102-46, 102-47, 103-1 INVOLVED STAKEHOLDERS 1. TOPIC IDENTIFICATION  Identifying 68 relevant topics considering the requirements of the GRI Reporting Standard (topics, indicators, sector supplement). Topics determined in the course of the ongoing stakeholder dialogue as well as sector-specific topics were also covered in the process.  Two-stage evaluation process resulting in 21 summarised topic groups  Topic validation by external and internal experts Internal experts, external experts from the fields of science, research and 2. IMPACT EVALUATION from NGOs  Evaluation of potential impact of selected topics in the course of a workshop and in talks with external and internal experts (on a scale of 1 to 4 depending on impact magnitude)  Assessment of relevant initiatives’ contribution in the light of the UN’s Sustainable Development Goals (see page 3) 3. ONLINE SURVEY Employees, customers, suppliers, the  Assessment of the 21 selected topic groups by internal and external stakeholders economy, politicians & special interest in the course of an online survey (response: 700 participants) groups, media, the scientific, research  Selection and rating of top 10 topics in order of importance & education communities MATERIALITY MATRIX Data security & protection very high Customer orientation Communication infrastructure Ecological STAKEHOLDER RELEVANCE Energie demand network design Compliance Responsible purchasing Employee health Digitalisation Competence & promoting development & talent Fair & flexible innovation promotion working Children & youth media protection Media Waste Emission literacy Electromagnetic fields Recycling ICT products providing ICT products ecological value low Involvement of Diversity & antiproviding residents discrimination social value low IMPACT very high Ball size represents business relevance for Telekom Austria Group. A topic’s importance is based on its impacts on the environment, As an additional dimension, the topics were assessed with regards society, economy as well as how interesting it is to Telekom Austria to their business relevance for Telekom Austria Group. This allows Group’s stakeholders. Thus, the topics most important to Telekom for a perspective that takes into account the topics’ sustainability Austria Group are those that have the biggest impact and those that context and their economical significance for the company. are most relevant to the stakeholders. S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y M A N A G E M E N T 10 TELEKOM AUSTRIA GROUP‘S VALUE CHAIN The diagram depicting Telekom Austria Group‘s value chain below gives an overview of the processes involved in its business operations. The necessary resources are also shown as input factors and the results as outputs. The issues identified along the value chain have been taken into account in the process of the materiality analysis. 102-9, 102-46 TELEKOM AUSTRIA GROUP INPUTS OUTPUTS NETWORK INFRASTRUCTURE Employee Fair & flexible health working Infrastructure & network PROVISION Communication infrastructure components Digitalisation & promoting innovation Energy demand MAINTENANCE Ecological network design Innovations Electromagnetic fields Emissions Environmental factors OPERATION Waste Data security Compliance & protection ACCESS TO NETWORK INFRASTRUCTURE Products & tariffs E  nd-user devices & accessoires Customer orientation Innovations Data security & protection Software Waste Digitalisation & promoting innovation Competence development & Diversity & talent promotion anti-discrimination Products & tariffs Customer Digitalisation orientation & promoting Communication innovation infrastructure Data & voice Digitalisation traffic & promoting Media literacy innovation Waste Electromagnetic Emissions fields Energy demand CUSTOMERS‘ USE OF THE INFRASTRUCTURE THE FOUR STRATEGIC NETWORK & CUSTOMERS With a high-performing and secure infrastructure as well as product range providing real added value to its customers, society and the environment, Telekom Austria Group is positioned as a responsible partner on its market. TARGETS 2016-2018 1) LTE coverage of 80 % in Telekom Austria Group Fibre coverage in Austria exceeding 70 % with at least 30 Mbit/s Identification and promotion of marketable innovations, for example via start-up initiatives ASSIGNMENT OF TOPICS AND MATERIAL TOPICS Communication infrastructure Customer orientation Digitalisation & promoting innovation Electromagnetic fields Involvement of residents ENVIRONMENT To continuously reduce its ecological footprint, Telekom Austria Group relies on energy efficiency, increased use of renewable energy, resource conservation and promoting climate-friendly mobility. TARGET 2012-2020 2) TARGETS 2016-2018 1) Reducing CO2 emissions by 25 % Reducing power demand by 30 % per terabyte of transferred data volume Reaching a constant recycling rate of 70 % Reducing in-house paper consumption by 10 % ASSIGNMENT OF TOPICS AND MATERIAL TOPICS Energy demand ICT products providing ecological value Ecological network design Emissions Recycling Waste 1) Baseline for targets is 2015. 2) Baseline for target is 2012. 3) Due to a new strategic direction, the Group-wide goal of implementing a health pass was replaced by the goal to promote continuous learning. Health promotion initiatives are implemented locally by the respective subsidiary. S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y M A N A G E M E N T 12 ACTION AREAS EMPLOYEES Telekom Austria Group taps its employees’ valuable potential by means of continuous further development in an international, modern working environment. Its corporate culture is characterised by team, trust and agility. Diversity and flexibility are the key to our success. TARGETS 2016-2018 1) 38 % women in management positions Anchoring of flexible work arrangements Create a general framework to promote constant learning 3) ASSIGNMENT OF TOPICS AND MATERIAL TOPICS Fair & flexible working Employee health Diversity & anti-discrimination Competence development & talent promotion SOCIETY Digital media provide equal opportunities to all people in the knowledge-based society. That is why, apart from local and social projects, Telekom Austria Group supports competent and safe media use in a targeted manner. TARGETS 2016-2018 1) 150,000 participants in media literacy trainings Promotion of social projects acoording to local needs ASSIGNMENT OF TOPICS AND MATERIAL TOPICS Media literacy ICT products providing social value The material topics of compliance, responsible purchasing and data security & protection are assigned to the management chapter. On the basis of 2017’s materiality analysis, the highlighted topics emerged as material topics. You can find the management approach (103) towards these topics here: www.telekomaustria.com/en/csr/sustainability-reports S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y M A N A G E M E N T 13 THE SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT’S ORGANISATIONAL STRUCTURE SUPERVISORY BOARD reports monitors MANAGEMENT BOARD sets reports targets SUSTAINABILITY TEAM Control & DIRECT coordination INDIRECT STAKEHOLDERS STAKEHOLDERS Suppliers, customers, Media, NGOs, interest groups, Performance legislators / offical agencies associations, rating agencies measurement & Implementation reporting INTERNAL STAKEHOLDERS Employees, company management, owners SUSTAINABLE communicating and coordinating their activities through MANAGEMENT this social network as well. In particular, this digital platform furthers the transnational networking of employees and Since 2010, Telekom Austria Group has been using a Groupmanagers all the way to the top management as well as interwide, integrated sustainability management system which is progressively developed. CEO Alejandro Plater, supported by CFO Siegfried Mayrhofer, is the principal and patron of sustainability agendas. A Corporate Sustainability Team, as part of Group Communications and Sustainability, reports CERTIFIED ENVIRONMENTAL directly to the CEO. This team manages and coordinates the MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS implementation of the sustainability strategy in collaboration A1 with the respective person responsible at the subsidiaries. ISO 14001 for environmental management (since 2004) Its cross-national approach guarantees compliance with the ISO 50001 for energy management (since 2008) superordinate Group targets. At the same time, the sustainEMAS (since 2013) ability strategy provides the flexibility necessary to honour A1 Slovenija1) regional features and a basis for exchange. ISO 14001 (since 2009) EMAS (since 2014) With the introduction of Workplace (‘Facebook at Work’), Vip mobile Telekom Austria Group established a digital Group-wide ISO 14001 (since 2015) knowledge, work and exchange platform in 2016 (see Employees, page 30). Since then, the Group Sustainability 1) Si.mobil d.d.’s renaming into A1 Slovenija d.d. came into effect in the course Board — consisting of top management members — has been of the rebranding in April 2017. S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y M A N A G E M E N T 14 national exchange and know-how transfer within Telekom VOLUNTARY MEMBERSHIPS Austria Group. The Board and other decision-makers will use (SELECTION) designated groups to directly report on progress and current topics from the field of sustainability at regular intervals. A1 This measure aims at reaching the goal of maximum integraklimaaktiv mobil project partner (since 2014) tion of sustainability aspects in the framework of the business Austria Cyber Security Forum of Kuratorium Sicheres strategy. 102-18 Österreich (since 2014) Code of Conduct on Data Centres Energy Efficiency (since 2009) MOBILTEL Bulgarian Red Cross (since 2004) Bulgarian Charity Aid Foundation (since 2004) PLAYING IT SAFE WHEN IT A1 SLOVENIJA COMES TO DATA PRIVACY Forum EMS (since 2008) Green Network (since 2001) All subsidiaries of Telekom Austria Group are committed to VIP MOBILE complying with the highest data privacy and security standards. Responsible Business Forum (since 2008) In addition to the statutory requirements in the respective countries, all subsidiaries follow the data security standards More memberships at www.telekomaustria.com created for this purpose as well as other data privacy and data 102-13 security directives specific to their countries. In the case of Austrian subsidiary A1, for instance, comprehensive certifications such as ISO 27001, ISAE 3402 and ECO Datacenter 3.0 warrant these high security standards. The EU’s basic data protection regulation will come into effect on 25 May 2018 and has already been gradually implemented At the Austrian subsidiary A1 the data protection officer by Telekom Austria Group since 2016. has been serving as a contact person for compliance with statutory and internal data protection regulations for years. The European Union’s General Data Protection Regulation COMPLIANCE currently presents a significant challenge and will continue to do so in the years to come. With the respective ruling in Honest, fair and transparent operation is an important part May of 2016, data protection law in the EU was harmonised of Telekom Austria Group’s corporate culture. To live up to and subjected to mostly uniform rules. It focusses on the these standards of integrity, the Group utilizes and elaborate protection of personal data and aims at the following: OfferCompliance Management System. The top management’s role ing effected persons increased control over their data and model effect as well as employees acting with a high degree of comprehensive information on its use, improving protection personal responsibility are thereby of particular importance. of children as well as facilitating access to legal protection. To prevent potential misconduct, Telekom Austria Group has established clear rules for legally compliant and hones conduct in all business relationships. Furthermore, adequate controls EXTERNAL INITIATIVES were integrated into the business processes. Applicable across TELEKOM AUSTRIA GROUP (SELECTION) the Group, its Code of Conduct was reworked in early 2017 and TELEKOM AUSTRIA GROUP adjusted to the new Guiding Principles (see Employees, page Diversity Charta (since 2014) 30). Apart from the Code of Conduct, a version of which is Next Generation Mobile Networks Alliance (since 2014) available to all subsidiaries in their respective country’s lanUN Global Compact (since 2012) guage as well as in English, detailed compliance rules provide ETNO (since 1996) help on specific topics. These include corruption prevention GSM Memorandum of Understanding (since 1988) and conflicts of interest, gifts and invitations, dealing with 102-12 confidential information, management counselling and lobbying, sponsoring, donations and advertising, capital market S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y M A N A G E M E N T 15 Telekom Austria Group’s ability to influence the topic was considered USEFUL INFORMATION as well. FOR GRI EXPERTS 102-48: No re-phrasing of information from past reports took place. 102-6: Telekom Austria Group offers its products and 102-49: No changes to the extent and topical boundaries services to business and private customers from all sectors. compared to earlier reporting periods. 102-7: Telekom Austria Group has seven operating companies 201-1: Net added value 2016: EUR 845 mn to employees, which are in accordance with the GRI definition of ‘operation’. In EUR 816 mn for paid investments, EUR 233 mn to capital some cases the holding company also fulfills these criteria and is providers and EUR 166 mn to public agencies. highlighted accordingly. 205-1: In 2016, the holding company as well as the seven 102-10: No significant changes in the reporting period to the operating companies A1, Mobiltel, velcom, Vipnet, A1 Slovenija, organisation's size, structure and supply chain in the reporting period. Vip mobile and one.Vip were internally assessed with regards Please refer to the annual report 2016 page 18 for details on the to corruption risks. The companies generated almost 100 % of ownership structure. Telekom Austria Group’s overall turnover and all locations of the 102-11: In all its activities, Telekom Austria Group honours above mentioned subsidiaries were taken into account. In the the precautionary principle by taking into account potential future course of the risk analysis, the management analysed 18 developments and findings in its decisions (e. g. scenario analysis different corruption scenarios and defined mitigating measures. in the context of risk management, please see annual report 2016 Taking into consideration the measures that have already been for further details on page 74) implemented, no significant remaining risks could be identified. 102-18: There is no separate committee for decision-making on 205-2: All employees and business partners are given access ecologic and social topics. With respect to committees on economic to information on compliance as well as corruption prevention (see decisions please refer to the Corporate Governance Report on page 37 www.telekomaustria.com/en/group/compliance ). Almost 100 % of of the annual report 2016. employees, managers and suppliers were actively informed. 102-42: All groups that are impacted by Telekom Austria Group’s Approximately 3,000 (approx. 16 %) of employees and managers regular business activity form the basis for stakeholder identification. (including Board members) received training on corruption prevention. Stakeholder selection was based on priorisation via internal The Holding‘s Supervisory Board and Executive Board as well as all databases. subsidiaries receive corruption prevention information at least once 102-43: Stakeholder dialogues are an ongoing process and their per year, the entire Executive Board receives training annually. results are likewise included in the preparation of reports. 418-1: No substantiated complaints regarding the violation 102-46: Boundaries for material topics were defined according of customers‘ privacy or loss of customer data were submitted in to an impact assessment inside and/or outside the organisation. 2016, the year under review. compliance and antitrust law. The compliance guidelines reviewed on their effectiveness by the Group’s Internal provide support in making sure that moral integrity is a Audit and Group Compliance. To this end, communication matter-of-fact part of everyday work. The effectiveness of the measures to promote moral integrity and measures relevant compliance management system is furthermore increased to compliance when hiring new managers and employees by means of regular communication measures and trainings, were audited. Also reviewed were process and documentation the help desk ask.me, audits as well as anonymous whistlerequirements regarding donations and sponsoring as well as blowing platform tell.me. compliance with internal regulations concerning gifts and invitations. An annual compliance risk assessment guarantees the needsbased development of the compliance programme. In 2013, Some 50 % of all approximately 30 leads submitted through Telekom Austria Group’s compliance management system the tell.me whistleblowing platform in 2016 were substanwas reviewed and certified in accordance with the IDW PS 980 tiated and relevant to compliance. Depending on the nature standard by an external auditor. In 2016, additional elements of the transgression, the consequences ranged from individof the Compliance Management System were successfully ual trainings or process improvements to the termination of S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y M A N A G E M E N T 16 collaborations with business partners as well as employees. in cooperation with Trucost, upstream processes such as The internal ask.me helpdesk dealt with some 300 inquiries resource extraction, manufacturing, transport and packaging regarding compliance in 2016. Approximately 4,200 classaccount for a not insignificant 85 % of all sustainability effects room training courses and 2,600 online training courses in the telecommunication industry. on compliance in the fields of corruption prevention, data protection, antitrust law and capital market compliance Telekom Austria Group’s core business accounts for the majorwere held this year. A total of approximately 6,800 employees ity of the purchasing volume: This concerns infrastructure and managers attended the compliance training courses components for its fixed-line and mobile communication net(approx. 3,000 of which focussed on corruption prevention). works, end-user devices (mobile phones, tablets, set-top boxes, 205-2 modems, routers …), IT and hardware components as well as power required to operate the networks. Office equipment, on Further information on Telekom Austria Group’s Compliance the other hand, only represents a small portion of the overall Management System at: purchasing volume. www.telekomaustria.com/en/group/compliance 102-16 Apart from commercial criteria, Telekom Austria Group — depending on the respective requirements — also considers SUSTAINABILITY HAS ITS ROOTS ecological criteria such as environmental friendliness or energy efficiency in its purchasing activities. At the same time, PRIOR TO THE CORE BUSINESS it includes labour rights, corruption prevention regulations and data protection factors in its considerations. The use of The sustainability of business activity is not just represented so-called conflict minerals such as tin, tantalum, tungsten in the immediate ecological and social effects of one’s own and gold which are often extracted under critical conditions business processes. That is why Telekom Austria Group also presents a challenge to the industry in the production of ICT includes upstream business processes, meaning the purchase of products. Telekom Austria Group does not manufacture such goods and services, into the respective assessment of its value products, but uses and sells them in the course of its business chain. According to a 2013 study conducted by GreenBiz.com2) activities. Telekom Austria Group pursues the approach to anchor sustainability in its supply chain to the greatest extent possible. For this purpose, a perennial project was created together MEASURES TAKEN with the purchasing section in 2012. Various measures such IN PURCHASING as the integration of ESG3)criteria into the vendors selfEmployee protection and work conditions in accordance with assessment — especially at Austrian subsidiary A1 — or the the regulations of the International Labour Organization (ILO) acquisition of resources from sustainable sources were have been included in the Code of Conduct, the purchasing successfully implemented in the past three years (see box). conditions and framework contracts Only long-term and effective measures can guarantee permaBehavioural guidelines for suppliers regarding sustainability nent and successful deep anchoring of sustainability aspects implemented in the purchasing process. This is why Telekom Austria Group Social and ecological requirements toward products and intends to consistently follow its chosen path. services (including life-cycle perspective) 102-9, 102-10 Environmental and social criteria for regular vendor rating introduced at Austrian A1 Sustainability criteria integrated into tenders Sourcing 100 % of electricity from renewable sources at the Austrian subsidiary A1, 66 % at the Slovenian A1 Slovenija 2) The State of Green Business 2013, GreenBiz und Trucost 3) Environmental Social Governance S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y M A N A G E M E N T 17 MORE THAN AN ICT PROVIDER: EMPOWERING DIGITAL LIFE In its role as a driver of digitalisation and beInnovation plays an important role as a differentiating factor in the highly competitive ICT sector. At the same time, one’s yond the provision of connectivity and bandoffers to the customers must be characterised by sustainable width, Telekom Austria Group provides entire value. Is that a contradiction? No. At least not when seeing industries, business models and societal as innovation as a contemporary, even pioneering contribution to well as personal areas of life with a wide the development of economical, social and personal potential. range of positive development possibilities. NE T WORK & CUS TOMERS 18 FUTURE-PROOF INFRASTRUCTURE IN THE DIGITAL AGE AWARDS To make sure new products and services enrich one’s profesOverall winner of the futurezone network test 2016 (A1) sional and private life, networks and applications on which Connect Test 2016: Awarded the best rating of ‘excellent’ they are based must be highly capable, safe and prepared for for the eighth time in a row (A1) future needs. At the same time, services and content offered Top Service Austria (A1) by traditional ICT providers is competing with so-called OTT Winner of the COMMUNICATIONS.INNOVATION.FUTURE (over the top) providers that offer their services without havaward (velcom) ing their own infrastructure (e. g. Netflix, …). Despite this fact, Best voice quality within the Commonwealth of Independent local market knowledge and customer care will continue to States, awarded by DMTEL (velcom) play an important role. Best in Test award in the 2016 P3 Communications network test (one.Vip) SUSTAINABLE INVESTMENT IN FIXED-LINE NETWORKS & MOBILE COMMUNICATION Telekom Austria Group sees itself as a driver and pioneer of the digital age. Correspondingly, beyond its traditional core business — providing connectivity and bandwidth — it offers knowhow for digital business models and solutions, from conceptuprovided with at least 30 Mbit/s products via the A1 fixed-line alisation to operation. Convergence plays a major role in this network. 70 % coverage is scheduled to be reached by the end context, not least in the light of the dynamic increase of data of 2018. 203-1 volumes transferred via these networks. For only the intelligent combination of fixed-line networks and mobile communicaTURBOCHARGING MOBILE DATA tion allows for ever growing regional coverage at higher bandWhen it comes to the mobile communication network, Telekom widths. Its corporate footprint shows the priority Telekom Austria Group employs LTE carrier aggregation to provide Austria Group gives this fact in the framework of its strategic faster mobile Internet in metropolitan areas across Austria, direction: The Group is operating as a convergent provider in Bulgaria, Croatia and the Republic of Serbia. This allows for six out of seven countries it is active in (Austria, Bulgaria, Croadata transfer rates of up to 300 Mbit/s. Combined with a modtia, Belarus, Slovenia, Republic of Macedonia). ulation method new to the mobile communication market as well as three frequency ranges, the possible transfer rate in the This is accompanied by targeted LTE expansion in the mobile live network of Austrian subsidiary A1 increased to more than communication network as well as the expansion of the fibre network and copper-based broadband technologies in the fixed-line network such as vectoring, VPlus and G.fast. LTE (4G) accelerates data transfer in the mobile communication network by a factor of ten when compared to UMTS. Austrian DIGITALISATION & subsidiary A1 is approaching full LTE expansion. In Croatia, NETWORK & CUSTOMERS Slovenia and the Republic of Serbia as well as the Republic of Macedonia, the accelerated roll-out of the LTE technology is Telekom Austria Group aims at becoming the first contact point also advancing at full steam. Thus, even remote regions will be and central partner in the digital transformation of companies supplied with higher bandwidths including increased capacity and to tap into new potentials in the field of digital services such and better stability. PA1 as cloud and ICT solutions. Yet, digital telecommunications solutions also concern more and more realms of life in the private BROADBAND ROLL-OUT IN THE customer sector. In this context, the focus is on solutions for FIXED-LINE NETWORK entire households and convergent product bundles containing, In 2016, the Group invested a total of EUR 764.1 mn (CAPEX), for instance, TV and music streaming services as well as cloud focussing particularly on broadband expansion. When it solutions. Apart from the visualisation of network infrastructure, comes to the fixed-line network, Telekom Austria Group aims services are also mapped in a virtual, cloud-based infrastructure. at offering fibre coverage of 70 % at speeds of at least 30 Mbit/s This allows for significantly improved operating processes at in Austria by the end of 2018. This is why it started its accellower costs as well as an accelerated market launch of new sererated broadband roll-out as early as 2015. By the end of 2016, vices, thus offering an ideal platform for competitive innovation. 50 % of Austrian private and business addresses could be NE T WORK & CUS TOMERS 19 500 Mbit/s in 2016. This method bundles frequencies in the area of 2.6 GHz, 1,800 MHz as well as 800 MHz and combines TELEKOM AUSTRIA GROUP’S them with the complex modulation method 256 QAM. This COOPERATIONS yields significantly higher bandwidths than today’s LTE standResearch Centre for Telecommunications Vienna ard. PA4 Vienna University of Technology Christian Doppler Laboratory for Wireless Technologies A field trial in the A1 live network transferred 513 Mbit/s onto a for Sustainable Mobility mobile router and 463 Mbit/s onto a smart phone — a considerJosef Ressel Center for user-friendly and secure mobile able step towards the fifth mobile communication generation environments (5G). The latter is technically based on 4G. 5G is expected to arrive in 2019, even if the generally applicable technical speci102-12 fications are still to be defined. Its implementation could then start in 2020. 102-2 NETWORK RELIABILITY AND SAFETY Telekom Austria Group is one of the largest backbone network operators in the world. It operates 200 nodes in 47 countries and is regarded as a particularly trustworthy partner when it comes to the reliability of its networks. Among others, the certification of Austrian subsidiary A1’s leased lines (including alarm transmission) in accordance with ISO 9001 — confirmElectromagnetic fields (EMF) are a recurring topic when talking ing particularly high quality management standards — prove about mobile communication. Speculation on this topic abound that. The fact that it regularly achieves top results in tests and despite the fact that the results of international research efforts rankings of its network quality (see Awards, page 19) confirms such as the Scientific Committee on Emerging and Newly Telekom Austria Group’s pioneering role regarding infrastrucIdentified Health Risks (SCENIHR), commissioned by the EU ture. PA3 Commission, find no causal connection between mobile communication and health risks. One thing is ensured: Telekom Not least, this quality and reliability is crucial in emergency Austria Group meets or achieves values significantly lower situations, in which Telekom Austria Group deploys specially than the limit value recommendations defined by the ICNIRP/ trained emergency response teams, while subsidiaries help WHO for base stations and mobile end-user devices in daily each other out too. They furthermore cooperate closely with use. Furthermore, the different national laws and regulations the fire brigades, paramedics and the Red Cross. Of course, in Telekom Austria Group’s countries of operation are strictly calling official emergency phone numbers is free in all of the adhered to. A Group-wide EMF policy ensures that. If and when Group’s countries. PA6 needed, designated EMF teams inform the population on location. Beyond that, regular measurements are taken during network construction and expansion while cooperating with local authorities and decision-makers. IO6 A1 DIGITAL INTERNATIONAL GMBH AND START-UP PROMOTION PROGRAMME The establishment of A1 digital international GmbH highlights Telekom Austria Group’s self-conception as a driver of digitalisation. The new subsidiary predominantly operates in the B2B USEFUL INFORMATION area. This encompasses comprehensive services to accompany FOR GRI EXPERTS and support companies in the digitalisation process. A1 digital thereby focusses on two core fields: The Internet of Things PA10: Cost-control and contract overview tools are (IoT) and cloud-based ICT solutions. International M2M offered by all subsidiaries. (machine to machine) solutions are also part of the portfoIO6: Only devices, which comply with the relevant normes lio: From fleet management to smart metering services, meter (EN 50360, EN 50566) are considered in the product portfolio of data management and roll-out services all the way to modular Telekom Austria Group. solutions for industrial automation and remote maintenance, smart M2M technologies form the backbone of the IoT. NE T WORK & CUS TOMERS 20 Promoting innovation, even beyond its own sphere, Austrian streaming services or cloud solutions. New products such subsidiary A1 has been supporting start-ups in the framework as the A1 Hybrid Modem are the result of a clear focus on of its A1 Start Up Campus initiative since 2011. At the A1 Start customer needs (see Thinking globally, leading regionally, Up Campus, start-ups have been receiving support and knowpage 23). In order to identify these needs and to find out how how from A1 experts in the form of offices, media presence, the Group’s products and services are received on the market, events and ICT infrastructure since 2015. Some 10 start-ups Telekom Austria Group utilises many information channels: have already made use of these offers TA1,2 Shops and service lines, social media such as Facebook, Twitter and YouTube, customer apps and Google+ as well as CUSTOMERS designated support communities. Digitalisation enters more and more aspects of life. Telekom Austria Group meets the associated demand with telecommunications solutions that — besides business applications — increasingly focus on solutions for entire households, too. It thus, for instance, covers all its customers’ needs with convergent product bundles containing, for example, TV and music MOBILE COMMUNICATION CUSTOMERS Number of mobile communication customers & RGUs (IN THOU.) Number revenue generating units (RGU’s) in fixed-line 5,971.5 4,944.9 4,108.1 3,495.5 1,720.0 2,145.3 1,018.9 620.1 1,103.6 714.3 279.4 314.3 172.0 AUS TRIA BULGARIA CROATIA BELARUS SLOVENIA REPUBLIC REPUBLIC OF OF SERBIA MACEDONIA NE T WORK & CUS TOMERS 21 THE ROADMAP — NETWORK & CUSTOMERS IN IMPLEMENTATION NOT ACHIEVED ACHIEVED SAID 2015 DONE 2016 PLANNED 2017 TARGETS 1) Demand-oriented expanInvestments (CAPEX) of Pushing demand-oriented 2016–2018 sion of the network infraEUR 764.1 mn in broadinfrastructure expansion as LTE coverage of 80 % structure using innovative band expansion, including well as increased use of in Telekom Austria broadband technologies acquiring additional new technologies Group frequencies 2016–2018 Fibre coverage in Austria exceeding 70 % with at least 30 Mbit/s Further expansion of the Establishing innovation Rolling out services offered 2016–2018 initiative A1 Start Up officers in the subsidiaries by start-ups promoted in Identification and Campus to further the promotion of Austria on other markets in promotion of marketinnovation and start-ups the footprint of the Telekom able innovations, for Evaluation of the Austria Group example via start-up expansion of the start up Staging an ‘Innovation JAM initiatives initiative to subsidiaries Session’ to further develop Starting the ‘Intrapreneurthe e-health business field at ship’ programme to offer Austrian subsidiary A1 employees the possibility to implement innovative ideas as start-ups 1) Baseline for targets is 2015. NE T WORK & CUS TOMERS 22 THINKING GLOBALLY, LEADING REGIONALLY In early 2017, Belarusian subsidiary velcom implemented the world’s first entirely virtual commercial core network in the framework of its ‘virtual one core’ lighthouse project. velcom thus owns one of the most innovative virtual telecommunications core architectures based on OpenStack — an open-source software — and serial standard hardware. This allowed velcom to reduce its operating costs by more than 50 %. Voice telephony Large-scale smart meter roll-out in Graz (Styria): In a matter of four years, 187,000 meters are converted to and Internet customers benesmart meters for Stromnetz Graz GmbH & Co. KG. Apart from replacing the meters, Austrian subsidiary A1 fit from this technology through also organises the entire technician deployment planning, parts of the material logistics and the customer more flexibility and new funcproject management. The project took off in November 2016 while the roll-out itself will take place in 2018. tionalities. Since 2016, Austrian subsidiary A1 has been promoting the start-up AdScanner in the framework of its A1 Start Up Campus initiative. AdScanner tracks TV campaign signals on all channels in real time and can thus immediately report when and where commercials have been placed. This data is subsequently combined with that provided by the A1 TV customer panel — consisting of 4,000 Since July 2016, Austrian subsidiary A1 has been offering its customers a hybrid modem participating TV households — which allows the that combines mobile communication and fixed-line infrastructure, thus being able to programme to provide precisely calculated conoffer fixed-line products at higher bandwidths. The modem’s smart technology allows tact opportunities for the respective placement. for the combination of both technologies’ bandwidths. As and when needed, the A1 The second important function of AdScanner lies Hybrid Modem supplements the DSL fixed-line broadband connection with 4G/LTE, thus in monitoring the competition: One can precisely providing speeds of up to 100 Mbit/s. This allows households to surf the Internet with follow when and on which channels competitors higher bandwidths. place commercials. NE T WORK & CUS TOMERS 23 DIGITALISATION BENEFITTING MANKIND AND THE ENVIRONMENT Information and communications technologies New technologies are not an end in themselves but are to serve economical, societal and individual development. Thereby, digican contribute to a more ecological and thus, talisation increasingly reaches into business and personal spheres sustainable, style of life. For it is important to alike and requires ever more powerful information channels to do find innovative solutions for challenges such so. These put processes in motion that allow for massive savings as climate change. in terms of time, money and natural resources. They also make it possible to transfer know-how from one place to another. ENVIRONMENT 24 ENVIRONMENTALLY FRIENDLY: STREAMING INSTEAD OF FLYING RATINGS 2016 AWARD Today, a surgeon in a US hospital can perform a surgery on a (SELECTION) Leader Energy Award in patient in a European clinic without having to board a plane CDP: B – the category ‘Technology and flying there. Information and communications techOEKOM: B – and projects based on nology (ICT) serves as an extended arm. One substantial renewable energy’ side effect of performing a surgery remotely from the U.S. is (velcom) that this method is easy on the environment — data transfer instead of air travel. Now, digitalisation enables people to perform tasks across huge distances and thus reduces travelling needs. Which represents another important step, for international goods and passenger transport contributes to one of the biggest environmental issues of our time: climate change. Although climate change is something of a constant in earth’s history, it is currently accelerating at a rate that might pose a procurement of goods and services. In this area, environmental threat to the world as such. Compared with other processes, friendliness and energy efficiency, among others, are decisionour climate is extremely complicated and complex. Internainfluencing factors. Operating and maintaining a network tional efforts are required to calculate it. And these, in turn, infrastructure requires energy supply, which produces CO2 require a respective communication infrastructure. emissions. To reduce them, Telekom Austria Group must lower its own energy consumption. This is achieved through ECONOMICAL AND ECOLOGICAL POTENTIAL increased efficiency when it comes to how the energy is used. In a study, the Global e-Sustainability Initiative (GeSI) states Thus, energy efficiency could be increased by 45 % between that ICT has the potential to separate economical growth from 2015 and 2016. In the same period, Telekom Austria Group’s an increase in global emissions. The emission of the greenoverall energy consumption amounted to 753,788 MWh. Its house gas CO2, above all, is attributed to fast climate change. If electricity demand amounted to 620,678 MWh, 61 % of which one managed to maintain the same level of CO2 emissions or came from renewable sources. In 2017, the company ran 5,167 even reduce them, one would achieve a massive breakthrough. vehicles, consumed 7,588,533 litres of fuel and thus emitted a In case digitalisation could serve as one strategy to actually total of 205,457 tons of CO2. reach this goal, it could eliminate the biggest obstacle standing in the way of a global climate policy. The fact that, on top of this, comprehensive use of ICT could also reduce global emissions by 20 % by 2030 and bearing in mind that — despite a dynamic growth in transported data volumes — the ICT sector’s emissions could be reduced by 1.97 % in the same period is an added bonus. DIGITALISATION & THE ENVIRONMENT The study also highlights an aspect that is often neglected Digitalisation is beneficial to more sustainable forms of economic when it comes to communications technology: Agriculture. activity, life and consumption. It can reduce real-world distances Correctly used, ICT can increase harvest yields by up to 30 % such as those travelled in the context of business trips as well and save lots of drinking water and oil. as the need for hardware, energy, paper and other resources. Furthermore, it can optimise processes regarding energy SUSTAINABLE INITIATIVES AND consumption or transport logistics. The networked control of ECOLOGICAL CRITERIA building technology or traffic flows also harbours great resource By means of cautious adaptation in the course of its business savings potential. The same holds true for digitally monitoring activities, even a European communications company such the need for machine and device maintenance and repairs. From as Telekom Austria Group can contribute to global efforts to both an entrepreneurial and personal perspective — for instance tackle climate change. For example, by making the expansion, by replacing resource-intensive data carriers for software, games, operation and maintenance of its infrastructure as well as films or music with cloud and streaming services — digitalisation its removal as sustainable as possible. This is why Telekom provides manifold possibilities of combining efficient work with a Austria Group has integrated ecological criteria into the sustainable lifestyle. decision-making process in upstream processes such as the ENVIRONMENT 25 MOBILE PHONE RECYCLING Number of mobile phones returned through initiatives TOTAL 2016 213,803 ENERGY FROM SUSTAINABLE SOURCES However, measures raising efficiency alone cannot replace the entire amount of electricity. That is why Telekom Austria Group aims at sourcing power demand that cannot be eliminated by those measures as sustainably as possible. For instance, through the use of power generated from renewable sources such as the sun, water or wind. Telekom Austria Group’s largest solar power park has been in operation in Belarus since mid2016, covering an area of 41 hectare and generating 19 MWh of electricity annually using 85,000 solar panels (see Thinking globally, leading regionally, page 29). The Croatian, Bulgarian, and Slovenian subsidiaries of Telekom Austria Group run more than 65 mobile communication base stations using solar and wind power or hydrogen fuel cells. Even though operating networks does not immediately conTOTAL 2015 sume any fuel, their maintenance, continuous expansion, 26,405 quality assurance as well as services provided to customers do. This is due to the fact that employees must use vehicles to perform these tasks. The mission in this field is the same as when it comes to power: To achieve maximum efficiency. The first step is to reduce the kilometres travelled. Innovative logistics concepts, video conference and telepresence solutions are utilised to achieve this. The second step is all about the use of sustainable propulsion systems such as natural-gas-powered as well as hybrids and electric vehicles. SAVING POWER WITH NEW TECHNOLOGIES The largest environmental impact caused by Telekom Austria Group’s business activities results from electricity consumption. The power needed to run its networks amounted for some 80 % of its overall energy demand. Reaching maximum efficiency in this area is among the most important environmental measures. Among others, this concerns GSM resources at mobile communication base stations. These are adapted in USEFUL INFORMATION a needs-based manner. They only run at full power — with the FOR GRI EXPERTS respective power consumption — at peak times. Once mobile communication traffic dies down, they are shut down in steps. 302-2: In 2016, energy consumption outside the Technologies such as Single RAN (Radio Access Network) also organisation came in at 68,028 MWh. This includes the help saving power. Since 2013, mobile communication base power used by mobile phones sold to customers as stations are therefore converted to Single RAN technology. well as Telekom Austria Group business trips using taxi, This lowers power consumption, makes the network faster train or aeroplanes. and increases its capacity. Some 4,000 mobile communication 305-1: Biogenic Scope 1 emissions amounted to 1,313 tons base stations have already been converted. Moreover, innovaof CO2; no data is available for Scope 2 and Scope 3 emissions. tive cooling methods such as hot-spot suction, cold-aisle 306-2: Telekom Austria Group is committed to proper containment or heat recovery systems yield a reduction in power waste disposal and complies with the regulations in the demand by up to 75 % when compared with conventional coolrespective countries. ing systems. 302-4, 302-5 ENVIRONMENT 26 TOTAL ENERGY CONSUMPTION TELEKOM AUSTRIA GROUP in 2016 HEATING 21,533 MWh ELEC TRICIT Y 620,678 MWh DIS TRIC T HEATING 37,530 MWh FUELS 74,048 MWh 753,788 MWh TOTAL ENERGY CONSUMPTION 2016 ENVIRONMENTALLY FRIENDLY CORPORATE CULTURE COOPERATIONS For Telekom Austria Group, environmental protection is more  ETNO (Telekom Austria Group) than a friendly commitment — it is a social responsibility.  klimaaktiv mobil (A1) Besides that, it offers possibilities to further increase the  Code of Conduct on Data Centres Energy Efficiency (A1) intelligent use of resources in all corporate areas. Purchasing  Green Network (A1 Slovenija)1) less and throwing less away as well as utilising things that can be recycled promotes a corporate culture of increased efficiency. This is why Telekom Austria Group follows ecological end user devices itself, it contributes to resource conservation principles in its life cycle management: Waste prevention, through its mobile phone recycling programme. In order to resource conservation and trying to keep valuable raw materirecycle these valuable resources, almost all of Telekom Austria als in the cycle as long as possible. Always in accordance with Group’s subsidiaries — some of them since 2004 — offer their the motto Reduce — Reuse — Recycle. customers the chance to drop off old devices free of charge. 70 to 80 % of their components can be recycled and reused The company thus ensures that technical facilities remain in by specialised recycling businesses to which the subsidiaries use as long as possible. After that, everything is supposed to hand them over. In Austria, for example, 100 % of the proceeds be recycled. Devices and facilities no longer operational are from the mobile phone recycling programme go to climate systematically disassembled and their parts properly recycled. protection projects. This recycling process furthermore preLife cycle management not only promotes a culture of effivents pollutants from old mobile phones to get into environciency but also the migration of technology and the replacemental cycles. Additionally, it counteracts the need to mine ment of old platforms. After all, new devices are more energy rare earth materials to produce mobile phone components. efficient than old ones. The mining and distribution of these raw materials is often in the focus of social critics who point out the social issues ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AS A in the mining countries. Environmental protection, after all, BONUS FOR CUSTOMERS not only serves the competitive aspects of a corporate culture Apart from increased efficiency, Telekom Austria Group also but — above all — the people. 301-3, PA11 targets customer benefits when pursuing its environmen1) The renaming of Si.mobil d.d in Slovenija, d.d. in the course of the rebranding tal measures. Despite the fact that it does not produce mobile became effective in April 2017. ENVIRONMENT 27 THE ROADMAP — ENVIRONMENT IN IMPLEMENTATION NOT ACHIEVED ACHIEVED SAID 2015 DONE 2016 PLANNED 2017 TARGETS Accelerated introduction Taking comprehensive Implementation of a 2012–2020 1) of energy-efficient equipenergy efficiency measures carpooling platform at Reducing CO2ment in the framework of to reduce CO2 emissions Austrian subsidiary A1 emissions by 25 % the life-cycle management programme Accelerated introduction Comprehensive energy Continuation of 2016–2018 2) of energy-efficient equipefficiency measures, e.g. comprehensive energy Reducing power ment in the framework of the use of energy efficient efficiency measures demand by 30 % per the life-cycle management equipment in the frameacross entire Telekom terabyte of transferprogramme work of life cycle manageAustria Group red data volume ment, optimisation of air conditioning units, etc. Optimisation of waste Awareness-raising and Sharing of best practice 2016–2018 2) separation internal campaigns information on waste Reaching a constant on the topic of resource separation within Telekom recycling rate of 70 % conservation and waste Austria Group’s subsidiaries separation Switch to follow-me Comprehensive switch to Continuation of measures 2016–2018 2) printers, digitalisation of follow-me printers as well to digitalise work processes Reducing in-house work processes as initiation of a project paper consumption to promote digital work by 10 % processes 1) Baseline for target is 2012. 2) Baseline for targets is 2015. ENVIRONMENT 28 THINKING GLOBALLY, LEADING REGIONALLY A successful mobility concept has made its way to the Austrian subsidiary A1 in December 2016: A1 Car Sharing. 240 vehicles are available to employees across Austria. Important error messages genIn the summer of 2016, Belarusian subsidiary velcom opened its first solar power park. erated by the vehicle are electronically transmitted Since then, 85,000 solar panels distributed across an area of some 41 hectares produce while they are opened and closed using an access some 19 megawatt hours hours of electricity annually. The power generated from card. Electronic trip reports are also possible. This sunlight is directly fed into the Republic’s power grid. Thus, the solar power park ranks increases the efficiency of using operating equipamong the largest in Belarus. ment and improves their availability for short trips. Belarusian subsidiary velcom has been offering mobile phone recycling since 2016. In 2016, Bulgarian subsidiary Mobiltel opened a new When dropping off a tablet or old mobile phone at a shop during the campaign period, recycling centre aimed at using resources already customers receive 10,000 free minutes. Even non-customers can make use of this in operation as long as possible, without physiservice and likewise receive a SIM card with 10,000 free minutes. Austrian subsidiary cally or chemically converting them. All equipment A1 has also extended its mobile phone recycling programme which it runs since returned such as modems, routers, remote controls, 2004. Since 2016, business customers are invited to participate in the mobile phone etc. is meticulously inspected for technical operabilrecycling programme. ity, repaired if possible, renewed or cleaned. Every month, this is supposed to breathe new life into some 12,000 devices and accessories. ENVIRONMENT 29 TEAM, TRUST AND AGILITY Digitalisation is accompanied by a profound change of the foundations and methods of working. This includes the question of how employees interact within the company as well as with customers, suppliers and other stakeholders. Telekom Austria Group actively promotes the competences required. E M P LOY E E S 30 OUR PURPOSE: EMPOWERING DIGITAL LIFE As a driver of digitalisation within its markets, Telekom AusOUR GUIDING PRINCIPLES tria Group has given this mega trend the priority it deserves. Team Digitalisation is a promising business opportunity. At the We work together by using shared assets and strengths to fulfil same time, it is a matter of responsibility to stand by the cusour customers’ expectations. It is important to us to be open and tomers by providing them with equal access and secure contransparent as a team in everything we say and do. Everyone’s nectivity as well as with solutions and services that enrich opinion counts, everyone is empowered to act. their private and professional life. Moreover, the company’s infrastructure and service portfolio form the basis for business Trust and public customers and enable them to offer their customers Trust creates an environment in which curiosity, openness and as well as citizens high-quality products and services. Together collaboration are key. We truly stand behind what we say and with Telekom Austria Group’s shareholders, employees, we keep our promises. We trust in the knowledge and empowcustomers and partners and through initiatives that aim at erment of all employees. We employ integrity in our interactions fostering start-ups (see Network & Customers, page 20) the with each other as well as with customers, suppliers and partGroup is dedicated its common purpose: Empowering Digital ners. This helps us to become better every day. Life. Agility CORPORATE CULTURE AND GUIDING The digital world is not waiting for us to adapt. We take decisions PRINCIPLES and execute them quickly. We learn in our daily work, when talkIn the digital era business success is strongly driven by new ing to colleagues and in our social networks. We learn from our ways of working. In 2016, three Guiding Principles that perfailures and always try again. fectly serve people’s needs in the digital years to come have therefore been developed and agreed on across the Group: 102-16 Team, Trust and Agility. Telekom Austria Group is convinced that these principles will lead it to excel in fulfilling customer expectations and paying back to society. In addition to being willing to learn new things (‘Constant Learning’) and focussing on mutual strengths within the Group DIGITALISATION & EMPLOYEES (‘One Company’), Telekom Austria Group’s Guiding Principles are important ‘enablers’ for a corporate culture that is actively Digitalisation and innovative communication solutions based imbued with life and serves the Group’s common purpose of on it create entirely new possibilities when it comes to the design ‘Empowering Digital Life’. The Guiding Principles’ three core of work environments. The possibility to cooperate independent elements (see box above) form the framework of Telekom of place or time as well as exchange information across social Austria Group’s new self-conception and the associated networks or knowledge platforms offer great potentials in terms working methods that are conducive to a positive development of productivity and enhancing a work environment’s appeal. of the company in the long term. Thus, Telekom Austria Group increasingly invests in the use of its central e-learning platforms which allow for training courses DIVERSITY: THE POTENTIAL OF VARIETY to be held independent of time and place and in its Group-wide Characterised by dynamic change, the complexity of tasks in social media platform Workplace. The latter promotes internthe digital age has seen a steep rise. That is why it is easier departmental cooperation in international project groups and for diverse teams than for individuals to master this myriad virtual teams as well as know-how transfer within the Group. of associated challenges. Teams work most effectively if they manage to link as much expertise and as many different skills E M P LOY E E S 31 as possible. The team members’ varied know-how, also referto take up technical professions, for instance, contribute to red to as diversity, is an essential success factor. For only difthis. Telekom Austria Group aims at increasing the share of ferent views of a problem yield comprehensive and efficient women in management positions to 38 % by 2018. In 2016, the solutions. Echoing these sentiments, Telekom Austria Group company focussed on recruiting women for top expert and has signed a Charta of Diversity. It thus publicly commits to management positions and on offering flexible ways of worutilising and maintaining the wide range of cultural traditions king and child care initiatives to reach this target. In Austria, and skills at its seven subsidiaries. a successful women’s network is providing women with a platform to exchange ideas, share know-how and support one Telekom Austria Group also makes a clear statement when another. All of this resulted in an increase of the proportion it comes to equal rights for women: Gender equality is a fixof woman in management positions from 35 % in 2015 to 36 % ture in all its activities. Many programmes promoting women in 2016. 102-12 ROLL-OUT OF AN INTERNAL SOCIAL NETWORK Group-wide key figures for Workplace, the internal social media platform. 8,800 8,700 3,200 1,100 more than 8,800 active more than 8,700 more than 3,200 mobile more than participants per month comments per month application users per month 1,100 groups Further information: www.facebook.com/workplace E M P LOY E E S 32 CONSTANTLY LEARNING FROM EACH OTHER Digitalisation profoundly affects communication, collaboFURTHER TRAINING PROGRAMMES ration and skill development within Telekom Austria Group. (SELECTION) Learning mainly takes place ‘on the job’, while new knowledge New Manager Program (A1) is deepened through exchange with other team members, Local Leadership Development Program (Mobiltel) during their work, in personal talks and via digital solutions Development@vipnet to promote new such as cloud-based e-learning tools. comptences (Vipnet) Manager’s School (velcom) Employees are expected to be open to new ideas and to think Si.academy programme for employees to in new dimensions — including actively breaking away from promote new competences (A1 Slovenija1)) old routines, showing entrepreneurship and self-motivation Development Center for employees in Sales (Vip mobile) by taking personal responsibility for their professional growth and career opportunities. 404-2 In 2016 Telekom Austria Group took part in the first wave of companies that rolled out Facebook’s enterprise solution Workplace, which has since then been available to all of the Group’s employees. As a social media tool for collaboration regular updates on the latest developments in the digital and knowledge sharing, it is connecting employees throughsector. 404-2 out the Group so that everyone in the company can access the information needed, reach out to each other and gain new ‘Young Potentials’ from the entire Group can apply to take part knowledge faster and more accurately (see Thinking globally, in a Group-wide further education programme at the Telekom leading regionally, page 37). Austria Group Business School. In the course of their training, they are also working on evolving Telekom Austria Group’s In an ever-changing industrial and societal environment, the corporate culture and are encouraged to find new ways of competencies required are constantly changing as well. working and learning. In order to cover its future demand Developing and maintaining the appropriate skills is therefor young specialists, Telekom Austria Group trains its own fore a critical success factor for the company. One of Telekom apprentices. Austrian subsidiary A1 trained 182 apprentices Austria Group's three strategic enablers — besides the Group’s in 2016, Bulgarian subsidiary Mobiltel 61. Guiding Principles and focussing on mutual strengths (‘One Company’) — is ‘Constant Learning’. This applies to the LEADERSHIP IN THE DIGITAL AGE individual employee as well as to the organisation as a whole. The digital era also alters corporate management standards. Aligned with Workplace and through a cloud-based digital Talents are no longer aspiring life-long careers with big comlearning solution, the company is providing employees panies. They rather decide on where they want to work based with access to state-of-the-art learning opportunities (also on what currently fits their personal and lifestyles. Companies accessible via a mobile application) and a broad content pool. therefore have to be aware of both customers’ and employees’ In 2016, development programmes for Sales and IT have been created that also strongly rely on e-learning in combination with other learning methods as well as mutual exchange within the communities. So called ‘Competence Channels’ with a special focus on sales, future networks, digital life and AWARDS leadership on the Workplace platform are enabling employees Best Workplace Launch Campaign in EMEA  to steer their learning journey themselves and to receive (Telekom Austria Group) Winner of the HR Excellence Award for the change  1) The renaming of Si.mobil d.d in Slovenija, d.d. in the course of the rebranding process Customer needs you (A1) became effective in April 2017. E M P LOY E E S 33 needs and show the ability to serve them accordingly. This Contemporary styles of leadership strongly includes the use of requires an altered management style. First and foremost, feedback, in particular peer-to-peer feedback. Telekom Austria leadership in the digital age means to break up old, hierarchical Group encourages employees to appreciate each other using leadership patterns and to trust and empower employees to act Feedback Cards (see Thinking globally, leading regionally, page in an agile way within their teams. For multinational compa37) which are also based on behavioural best practice examples nies such as Telekom Austria Group, it is essential to promote in line with the Guiding Principles. Telekom Austria Group this spirit on an international level. In 2016, Telekom Austria takes feedback seriously, which is why the company carried Group has pursued this objective via the Group-wide launch out its employee survey TAGisfaction in 2016 and is taking of its Guiding Principles and Workplace. respective steps wherever room for improvement is identified. 404-3 Digitalisation creates momentum and requires a change of leadership. However, it is still up to managers to execute this All of this aims at creating a working environment that creates new style of leadership. In the current time frame, not the ones value for the company, its employees, customers and the society. who make the best predictions but the ones who best adapt to This is how Telekom Austria Group wants its employees to current developments are the ones who will be successful. experience their ‘Employee Journey’ — as a journey that is Telekom Austria Group expects its managers to show a high Empowering Digital Life. level of willingness to change permanently in order to ensure that leaders, their teams and the company are fit for the future. The Group encourages its managers to utilise common strengths and to remain open to learning and adapting to new demands. Quarterly leadership webcasts are held throughout the Group to enrich the ongoing discussion about new ways of leading in a dedicated competence channel on the company’s Workplace platform. Thus, not only managers but everyone in PROMOTION OF WOMEN 2016 the company can take part in this discussion. 100% At Telekom Austria Group, Group-wide performance management standards make sure that the quantifiable performance of employees is given just as much attention as the ‘how’ aspect of their daily work based on Telekom Austria Group’s Guiding Principles. Personal development is a major aspect within the performance management process and has been included in the latter in 2016. 0% USEFUL INFORMATION FOR GRI EXPERTS 39% 36% 24% Female Women in Women 302-2: 50 % of all employees are covered by the provisions employees management in senior of collective bargaining agreements. National requirements are positions management observed at all subsidiaries. positions 401-2: Benefits are available to all employees equally. E M P LOY E E S 34 Let’s learn from each other! Let’s work together. Join today and discover E M P LOY E E S a new way of working. THE ROADMAP — EMPLOYEES IN IMPLEMENTATION NOT ACHIEVED ACHIEVED SAID 2015 DONE 2016 PLANNED 2017 TARGETS 1) Evaluation of measures to Continuing the women Extending the 2016–2018 support women matter network at Austrian women’s network on 38 % women in subsidiary A1 an international basis management positions Implementation of Launch of a Group-wide Defining a mobile work 2016–2018 measures to promote social media platform agreement across the entire Anchoring of flexible working (Workplace) to allow flexible, Telekom Austria Group flexible working arrangements international collaboration Creating framework condiarrangements Introducing a uniform tions for working together in mobile work agreement (A1) virtual work environments Launch of Telekom Austria Regular Culture Pulse Group’s new Guiding Checks throughout Telekom Principles Austria Group Establishment of a GroupLaunch of a Group-wide Introducing a new Group2016–2018 wide knowledge platform social media platform wide e-learning platform Creating framework (Workplace) to allow for Evaluating the Group-wide conditions for transnational exchange implementation of Feedthe promotion of back Cards (see Thinking continuous learning2) globally, leading regionally, page 37) 1) Baseline for targets is 2015. 2) Due to a new strategic direction, the Group-wide target of implementing a health pass was replaced by the goal to promote continuous learning. Health promotion initiatives are implemented locally by the respective subsidiary. E M P LOY E E S 36 THINKING GLOBALLY, LEADING REGIONALLY For the fifth time, Austrian subsidiary A1 staged its A1 Team Triathlon in September In the autumn of 2016, Telekom Austria Group 2016. For the first time, it had invited teams from Telekom Austria Group’s other rolled out its social media platform. As a standalone subsidiaries. Teams of three took to the track with more than 1,000 employees collaboration and communication solution, this tool forming a total of 335 teams to participate in this event in 2016. From members of not only allows one to communicate with colleagues the board to apprentices, all tiers could be seen swimming, cycling and running. Of transparently, efficiently, swiftly and regardless of course, the event focused on having fun and team building, apart from the sporting one’s location but greatly improves one’s ability to aspect. share and utilise knowledge and creativity. THANK YOU! Belarusian subsidiary velcom gives all its employees the chance to hand one another personal Feedback Cards. These are used to give direct feedback and express mutual appreciation. The cards can be sent to one’s colleagues in digital form or via mail. E M P LOY E E S 37 BRIDGING DIGITAL, SOCIETAL DIVIDES By providing the technological basis and Tablets instead of books. In schools, not at the beach. Certain pedagogues and politicians involved in educational policies educational offers for equal, digital access think that school children will soon be free from the burden to information, education and knowledge, of carrying cumbersome text books around. Schools are supTelekom Austria Group not only serves as a posed to support so-called digital natives, meaning children responsible member of our society, but also who were born into the digital era, using methods to which they can relate. In our day and age, this means mostly smart as an element bridging gaps. phones and tablets. Studies have been highlighting the possibilities of networked learning by means of such electronic devices for years. SOCIE T Y 38 INFLUENCE BECOMES NORMALITY This example illustrates to what an extent digitalisation already PARTICIPIATION IN permeates our society. While past generations used to perMEDIA LITERACY ceive books as the most normal element of education and everything digital as mere ‘modern influence’, digital life is TRAININGS a normality for younger members of society. Education and from 2011 to 2016 training institutions — and not only those serving younger (accumulated) generations — will have adjust to this fact. For the thought that learning ends with school graduation is obsolete as well. Life-long learning is, in fact, a prerequisite for people to keep TOTAL 2011–2016: up with the pace of our highly advanced society. 124,512 2016: 25,499 DIGITALISATION AS A DRIVER FOR SOCIETY AND SCIENCE If only — after discovering the moons of Jupiter — Galileo Galilei had been able to contact the international community of sciTOTAL 2011–2015: entists via digital media, the entire history of science would have taken a different direction. Today, using a tablet or smart 99,013 2015: 24,481 phone, every child on the planet can catch up on scientific discoveries in minutes, more knowledge, in fact, than even the best scientists would have had at their disposal twenty years ago. Rapid developments in cosmology, genetics, biotechnology and quantum mechanics are the result of digitalisation. TelecomTOTAL 2011–2014: munications companies such as Telekom Austria Group thus 74,532 2014: 21,1741) provide the foundation for scientific achievements as well as social and economical development options in the 21st century. Factual knowledge in almost all fields has risen to a status that TOTAL 2011–2013: virtually dwarves the greatest achievements of past epochs. 53,358 While archaeologists in the 1990s used to look for sunken 2013: 24,483 civilisations for years (and sometimes in vain), today, their discovery sometimes takes mere weeks. Thanks to young scientists like Sarah Parcak, who knows how to make the best of satellite technology and digitalisation, archaeologists TOTAL 2011–2012: have recently made discoveries that would have exceeded the 28,875 wildest dreams of scientists only a few decades ago. 2012: 24,292 Studies such as Strategy&’s Global Information Technology Report 2016 forecast that increased digitalisation results in a larger gross domestic product, lower unemployment rates INITIATIVE S TARTED and more innovation activity. This means that digitalisation IN AUTUMN OF 2011 is more than a ‘nice to have’ but actually concerns the very 4,583 heart of a society. In fact, society is already being kept alive by a ‘digital pacemaker’. 2016 Austria: 23,549, Bulgaria: 1,625, Croatia: 75, Slovenia: 150, Republic of Serbia: 100 TARGE T 2012–2016: 100,000 participants in media literacy trainings 1) Number of Austrian participants in 2014 corrected thanks to higher data quality. SOCIE T Y 39 tion. As early as 2011, it founded the A1 Internet for All media DIGITALISATION & THE SOCIETY literacy initiative in Austria and rolled out comparable projects and initiatives in most countries the Group is active in. Digitalisation also offers significant advantages for the society as a whole. Digital media, for example, gives all people equality DIGITALISATION FOR THE YOUNG AND OLD: of opportunities in terms of personal and societal development. INTERNET FOR ALL This is why Telekom Austria Group supports competent and safe 13 different workshops taking place in Austria were developed media use in a targeted manner. Providing infrastructure and to help children acquire digital skills as early as when starting the foundations for economic development in rural areas is one primary school. The content of the workshops is also being important part of this effort, for network expansion also means provided as school materials. At the Vienna location, the chilbridging the digital gap between urbanised and rural regions as dren’s training programme was extended by a so-called Digital well as between societal situations — for instance with a view Study Room (see Thinking globally, leading regionally, page to educational and development possibilities. This is paramount 43). During designated information evenings, the parents are for a society’s social and economic development. given information on their children's Internet usage habits and how to protect them from possible dangers associated with them. Furthermore, the A1 Internet for All initiative offers more than STEPS TO CONSOLIDATE DIGITALISATION 30 different trainings for seniors, reaching from first steps to Companies such as Telekom Austria Group serves as a driver editing photos. By means of an access programme tailored to of digitalisation. It provides connectivity and bandwidths that this age group, the company aims at lowering their Internet allow for the creation of future scientific, societal, economical entry threshold and kindling their curiosity. Expert knowledge and educational models. In its role as a pioneer of digitalisation of media literacy topics and a training concept based on that and know-how carrier, however, Telekom Austria Group wants build the foundation to gently accompany seniors on their to be more than an infrastructure provider. It sees itself as the way to a digital life. Courses building upon each other as well ideal partner accompanying economy and society toward the as practical exercises and examples from every day digital path of digital transformation. To this end, it has adapted its life, tips on how to correctly work with digital media and more corporate culture which it practices daily (see Employees, page introduce the seniors to the Internet. Additionally, they train 30). Its corporate culture is also based on the Group’s guiding how to use laptop computers, tablets and smart phones, and principle of ‘Empowering Digital Life’. resolve individual issues in open question & answer sessions. Aspects of security are an essential part of all courses. A To achieve this goal, Telekom Austria Group not only relies recommendation rate of 99 % proves the A1 Internet for All on the provision of technological access to digital sources of initiative’s quality and relevance for the target groups at which knowledge, information and education. Apart from increasing it is aimed. Several subsidiaries to Telekom Austria Group also its activities in mobile and fixed-line broadband extension, it offer information brochures for seniors, children and families. also uses social initiatives aimed at bridging the ‘Digital Gap’. The Slovenian subsidiary, for instance, has been offering In other words, it attempts to build ‘societal bridges’. To this a smart phone brochure tailored to seniors since 2016 (see end, it supports the development of the skill set and abilities Thinking globally, leading regionally, page 43). PA2 needed to explore individual potential associated to digitalisaAustrian subsidiary A1 offers trainings aimed at consolidating digital competences at three permanent locations in three provincial capitals as well as monthly tours to regions in the countryside. The programme enjoys the support of 30 partners from social and educational fields. With 124,512 in 2016, the Group well exceeded its Group-wide goal of 100,000 media literacy training participants which it had set itself in 2012 USEFUL INFORMATION (see graphic ‘Participations in media literacy trainings’, page FOR GRI EXPERTS 39). Thus, according to a scientific evaluation carried out by the NPO Institute at the Economic University of Vienna in TA5: Open source technologies are promoted in the 2016, the Austrian subsidiary A1 significantly contributed to framework of the Internet for All initiative. closing the Digital Gap in Austria. SOCIE T Y 40 Health naturally plays a big role in a society whose members COOPERATIONS (SELECTION) are getting older and older. In many areas of the healthcare INITIATIVES AND SOCIAL PARTNERSHIPS system, e-health solutions offer new possibilities. In Austria, Specialisterne — Integration of persons suffering from a confor instance, A1‘s Medical Data Network already links physidition in the autism spectrum into the labour market (A1) cians, hospitals, laboratories and other health care institutions. Cooperation with Listen Up — a platform supporting deaf The multi-media hospital bed, also referred to as ‘E-Care Terpeople and people with hearing impairments (Mobiltel) minal’ makes lying in a hospital bed a more varied experience Do The Right Thing — Project aimed at promoting internal while adding several services to everyday hospital operations volunteer work by employees (Vipnet) and supporting care personnel. Children.Autism.Parents — Development and provision of the free DAR Communicator application for persons suffering Even simple applications such as one.Vip’s make life easier: from autism (velcom) Their app reminds users of doctor’s appointments by sending Cooperation with SAFE.SI — Trainings for children on the safe them text messages. Slovenian subsidiary A1 Slovenija’s use of mobile phones and data transfer (A1 Slovenija2)) helps diabetics with monitoring their blood sugar level with Cooperation with Blue Shell — support for single parents the app Vem, kaj jem! (‘I know what I eat!’). E-government and families with disable children (Vip mobile) solutions help Slovenian subsidiary A1 Slovenija facilitate SOS Children’s Village — Free fixed-line phones; Business communication between citizens and authorities. Text and customers are invited to donate (one.Vip) chat messages represent valuable means of communication for deaf people. Telekom Austria Group’s subsidiary in Belarus offers special rates to persons with impaired hearing, while COOPERATIONS FOR SAFE INTERNET USE the Slovenian one helps blind and deaf people with special  Vienna University Children’s Office (A1) rates that include large data allowances (unlimited text Saferinternet (A1, Mobiltel) messages and voice telephony). SAFE.SI (A1 Slovenija) Belgrade Seniors’ Association (Vip mobile) Using these and many other measures and initiatives, Telekom 102-12 Austria Group actively assumes its social responsibility by building societal bridges (and not just digital ones) to lead the way to equal opportunities in the time of digitalisation. 203-2, PA2 WHAT ELSE DIGITALISATION CAN DO FOR SOCIETY Above all, digitalisation can make everyday life easier for HOUSEHOLDS WITH ACCESS socially disadvantaged or physically impaired people. For TO THE INTERNET 2015 instance, new information technology is able to integrate 59 % blind or seriously visually impaired people into general educational activities in such a way that they no longer need to learn Braille. Vipnet, Telekom Austria Group’s Croatian BULGARIA subsidiary, also offers visually impaired people mobile phones with larger displays and simplified menu navigation. 82 % 78 % AUS TRIA CROATIA 60 % 64 % BELARUS REPUBLIC AWARDS OF 78 % 69 % SERBIA  Good Practice — Austrian Social Ministry’s Good Practice award for A1 Internet for All (A1) SLOVENIA REPUBLIC OF Rescuers of Childhood award (Mobiltel) Source: ITU MACEDONIA  Best Private Education Initiative award for project Read Belarusian with velcom (velcom) 2) The renaming of Si.mobil d.d. in A1 Slovenija, d.d. in the course of the rebranding became effective in April 2017. SOCIE T Y 41 THE ROADMAP — SOCIETY IN IMPLEMENTATION NOT ACHIEVED ACHIEVED SAID 2015 DONE 2016 PLANNED 2017 TARGETS More than 20,000 partici25,499 participants in media Workshop programme 2016–2018 1) pations in media literacy competence trainings aimed at promoting 150,000 participations trainings Nine information evenings media literacy launched in media literacy Implementation of the new for parents with 206 in Belarus trainings media literacy workshop participants in the Training course offers programme in Belarus2) framework of the A1 aimed at promoting digital 2012–2016 1) Internet for All initiative competence at schools and 100,000 participants Publication of a free brofor seniors extended in media literacy chure on the safe use of trainings mobile phones in Slovenia Continuation of social initiaSocial initiatives such as Do Continuation of social 2016–2018 3) tives based on local needs the Right Thing continued initiatives tailored to local Promotion of social in Croatia, cooperation needs projects according to with SAFE.SI on the safe local needs use of mobile phones in Slovenia, partnership with SOS Children’s Village in Republic of Macedonia etc. 1) Baseline for target is 2015. 2) A comprehensive evaluation on the implementation of a media literacy initiative was conducted in 2016 at the subsidiary in Belarus. Due to local framework conditions, the workshop programme’s roll-out is scheduled for 2017. 3) Baseline for target is 2011. SOCIE T Y 42 THINKING GLOBALLY, LEADING REGIONALLY In the framework of the Internet for All initiative, Slovenian subsidiary A1 Slovenija — in cooperation with the University of Maribor — designed and produced a brochure titled Varna uporaba mobilnih telefonov (‘On the safe use of mobile phones’). The brochure is aimed at seniors and is supposed to instruct them on the safe use of mobile phones, By means of the A1 Internet for All Campus, the Austrian subsidiary has been offering besides introducing them to basic functions such tutoring for children and adolescents since 2016. The digital study room gives them as PIN, PUK, button lock and more. the chance to research presentation topics or do homework online. Media pedagogues support the children and adolescents in using digital media for school assignments. Additionally, it offers coding workshops for 7to 13-year-olds, where they are introduced into the world of programming. In small groups, the bring Lego figures to life and solve tasks using robots. In the autumn of 2016, the Belarusian subsidiary velcom presented a new project titled MOVABOX. Its aim is to preserve and promote the culture, language and literature of Belarus. Contemporary The Croatian subsidiary Vipnet introduced a crowdfunding platform for social projects Belarusian authors and their works are introduced in 2016. The social network brings private individuals and organisations together. to a wider audience. MOVABOX combines offline Everyone can register on the website and subsequently create a charity campaign for and online elements. Offline activities include a certain organisation or topic. Through sharing the project on other social networks, meetings with authors writing children's literature, friends, acquaintances and family members are encouraged to donate money to the where books are exchanged and read together. respective cause. The current total amount donated is displayed in real-time on the When it comes to online activities, MOVABOX offers website. Donations are transferred directly to the charity organisations with no fees a literature quiz. Winners receive a MOVABOX, full being charged. www.cinipravustvar.hr of Belarusian literature. SOCIE T Y 43 GRI CONTENT INDEX THIS REPORT WAS CREATED WITH REFERENCE TO VARIOUS GRI STANDARDS AND THE TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR SUPPLEMENT PILOT VERSION 1.0. 102-54 The following GRI Content Index lists all topics that have been identified concerning the role of the Supervisory Board is provided in the Corporate as material to Telekom Austria Group as a whole in the course of Governance Report, which is part of Telekom Austria Group's annual the materiality assessment in 2017. The management approaches of report. For more information on the extent of and details on the audit, the material topics have been collectively published on the website please refer to the external certificate on page 53. 102-47, 103-1, (www.telekomaustria.com/en/csr/sustainability-reports). Information 103-2, 103-3 External audit External audit for Austria AR: Annual Report 2016 full partial Reporting Page Description level Assurance GRI 102: GENERAL DISCLOSURES 2016 ORGANISATIONAL PROFILE 102-1 7f Name of the organisation 102-2 4, 7f, 20, 56, Organisation̒s most important brands, products and services AR 86f 102-3 7f, 56 Location of headquarters 102-4 4, 7f Countries in which the organisation operates to a significant extent 102-5 7f, AR 18, 86f Ownership and legal form 102-6 4, 16, Markets AR 50ff, 86f, 94ff 102-7 4, 7f, 16 Scale of the organisation AR 13ff, 18ff, 50ff, 80, 84f, 139ff 102-9 11, 17, 56 Supply chain 102-10 7f, 16f, AR 18, Significant changes to the organisation and its supply chain 139ff 102-11 16, AR 74ff Precautionary Principle or approach 102-12 15, 20, 41, 43 External initiatives 102-13 15 Association memberships STRATEGY 102-14 6 Highest decision-maker’s statement on the importance of sustainability and organisation’s sustainability strategy ETHICS AND INTEGRITY 102-16 15ff, 31, Organisation’s values and codes of conduct AR 26f G R I CO N T E N T I N D E X 44 GOVERNANCE 102-18 14ff, AR 21f, Governance structure 30ff STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT 102-40 10 List of incorporated stakeholder groups 102-41 34 Collective bargaining agreements 102-42 16 Basis for identifying and selecting stakeholders 102-43 9f, 16 Approach to stakeholder involvement and whether stakeholders have been involved in report preparation 102-44 9 Topics raised by stakeholders and organisation̒s reaction REPORTING PRACTICE 102-45 AR 139ff List of companies included in the consolidated financial statements 102-46 10f, 16 Method of defining report content and topic boundaries 102-47 10, 44 List of material topics 102-48 16 Restatements of information 102-49 9, 16 Changes to topic extent and boundaries compared to previous reporting periods 102-50 55 Reporting period 102-51 55 Date of most recent report 102-52 55 Reporting cycle 102-53 56 Contact point for questions regarding the report 102-54 44ff Report of the ‘in-accordance’-option 102-55 44ff GRI Content Index 102-56 44ff, 55 External assurance GRI 103: MANAGEMENT APPROACH 2016 103-1 10, 44, 55 Material topics explanation and boundaries 103-2 44, 55 Components of the management approach 103-3 44, 55 Evaluation of the management approach GRI 201: ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE 2016 201-1 16 Direct economic value generated and distributed GRI 202: MARKET PRESENCE 2016 202-2 52 Proportion of senior management hired from the local community GRI 203: INDIRECT ECONOMIC IMPACTS 2016 203-1 19, AR 13ff Infrastructure investments and services supported 203-2 41 Significant indirect economic impacts GRI 205: ANTI-CORRUPTION 2016 205-1 16 Operations assessed for risks related to corruption 205-2 16f, 48 Communication and training about anti-corruption policies and procedures G R I CO N T E N T I N D E X 45 GRI 301: MATERIALS 2016 301-3 27, 50 Reclaimed products and their packaging materials GRI 302: ENERGY 2016 302-1 48f Energy consumption within the organisation 302-2 26, 48 Energy consumption outside of the organisation 302-3 49 Energy intensity 302-4 26, 48f Reduction in energy consumption 302-5 26 Reductions in energy requirements of demand for products and services GRI 305: EMISSIONS 2016 305-1 26, 48, 51, 55 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 305-2 48, 51, 55 Indirectly incorporated (Scope 2) GHG emissions 305-3 48, 51, 55 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions 305-4 48, 50 GHG emissions intensity 305-5 51 Reduction in GHG emissions 305-7 48 Nitrogen oxides (NO x), sulfur oxides (SO x), and other significant air emissions GRI 306: EFFLUENTS AND WASTE 2016 306-2 26 Overall weight of waste by type and disposal method GRI 401: EMPLOYMENT 2016 401-2 34 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time employees GRI 404: TRAINING AND EDUCATION 2016 404-2 33f Programmes focussing on competence management, life-long learning and support for retiring employees 404-3 34 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews GRI 405: DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITIES 2016 405-1 51f Diversity among governance bodies and employees GRI 418: CUSTOMER PRIVACY 2016 418-1 16 Number of substantiated complaints concerning breaches of customer privacy and loss of customer data G R I CO N T E N T I N D E X 46 TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR SUPPLEMENT — INTERNAL OPERATIONS 2003 IO6 20 Policies and practices with respect to Specific Absorption Rate (SAR) of handsets TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR SUPPLEMENT — PROVIDING ACCESS 2003 PA1 19 Policies and practices to enable the deployment of telecommunication infrastructure and access to telecommunication products and services in remote and low population-density areas. PA2 40f Policies and practices to overcome barriers for access and use of telecommunication products and services including: language, culture, illiteracy, and lack of education, income, disabilities, and age. PA3 20 Policies and practices to ensure the availability and reliability of telecommunications products and services PA4 19f Quantification of the level of availability of telecommunication products and services in areas where the organisation operates. PA6 20 Programmes to provide and maintain telecommunication products and services in emergency situations in the service area PA10 20 Initiatives to ensure clarity of charges and tariffs PA11 27 Initiatives to inform customers about product features that will promote responsible, efficient, and environmentally friendly use TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR SUPPLEMENT — TECHNOLOGY APPLICATIONS 2003 TA1 20f Examples of the resource efficiency of telecommunication products and services delivered TA2 20f Examples of telecommunication products, services and applications that have the potential to replace physical objects TA5 40 Description of practices protecting intellectual property rights and access to open-source technologies MEDIA LITERACY 39ff, 52 Information on the Internet for All initiative G R I CO N T E N T I N D E X 47 DATA APPENDIX NETWORK & CUSTOMERS CUSTOMERS1) ANTI-CORRUPTION TRAININGS 2016 2015 Change AntiShare of Number of Number of (in %) corruption trained employees customers (in thou.) customers (in thou.) trainings (in %) Austria 8,174 8,041 2 Austria 631 7 Bulgaria 4,651 4,775 –3 Bulgaria 659 17 Croatia 2,005 1,990 1 Croatia 746 58 Belarus 5,124 4,957 3 Belarus 718 32 Slovenia 785 774 1 Slovenia 134 25 Republic of Serbia 2,145 2,109 2 Republic of Serbia 79 9 Republic of Macedonia 1,245 1,308 –5 Republic of Macedonia 25 3 Telekom Austria Group 24,129 23,954 1 Telekom Austria Group 2,992 16 1) Total number of mobile communication customers and total number of fixed-line connections 205-2 ENVIRONMENT CALCULATION METHOD — EMISSIONS according to GRI is not relevant to Telekom Austria Group. In its calculation method for direct, indirect and other indirect emissions, 305-1, 305-2, 305-3, 305-4, 305-7 Telekom Austria Group follows the internationally recognised definition of the Greenhouse Gas Protocol of the WRI/WBCSD (World Resources CALCULATION METHOD — ENERGY Institute and World Business Council for Sustainable Development). The calculation method is — as long as self provision is not concerned Included in the calculation for direct emissions are all greenhouse gases, — based on the invoices issued by the respective energy providers. For not just those covered by the Kyoto Protocol. The calculation methods the conversion into kilowatt hours factors of the ecoinvent database are based on data published by ecoinvent (AR4 100-year (IPCC 2007have been taken into account. When data was not available, estimates 4th Assessment Report)). Figures given as CO2 equivalents. Nature were made in some cases. Furthermore, term inaccuracies may occur if of gases and source of emmission factors and of Global Warming invoices do not exactly match the reporting period. For the energy share Potentials (GWP) reported by energy providers for Scope 2 emissions of fuels the heating value was considered. Neither steam nor cooling as well as calculated Scope 3 emissions are unknown. The base year energy was purchased. 302-1, 302-2, 302-4 VEHICLE FLEET Number of Consumption Consumption Consumption of Kilometres driven 2016 vehicles of petrol (in l) of diesel (in l) alternative fuels (in l) (in thou.) Telekom Austria Group 5,167 547,712 6,812,521 228,222 104,879 2015 Telekom Austria Group 4,784 378,7281) 6,911,1241) 190,711 109,595 Change (in %) Telekom Austria Group 8 45 –1 20 –4 AIR POLLUTANTS GENERATED BY THE VEHICLE FLEET 2) 2016 (in g/km) NO x SO2 PM10 1) Due to increased data quality Belarus‘ key figures Telekom Austria Group 0.660 0.191 0.066 ‘consumption of petrol’, ‘consumption of diesel’, ‘NO x’, 2015 (in g/km) ‘SO2’ and ‘PM10 ’ from 2015 were corrected. Telekom Austria Group 0.666 0.188 0.067 2) The air pollutants were aligned to the published Change (in %) data of ecoinvent for the first time in 2012. They include the emissions of the vehicle fleet. Reported Telekom Austria Group –1.3 1 –1.4 emissions represent relevant pollutants of the 305-7 Telekom Austria Group. D ATA A P P E N D I X 48 DIRECT AND INDIRECT ENERGY Heating District Total energy Total energy consumption 2016 (in MWh) Electricity 1) fuels2) heating Fuels3) consumption in Tera Joule (TJ) Austria 298,983 16,227 28,869 49,532 393,611 1,417.00 Bulgaria 86,168 128 407 10,758 97,462 350.86 Croatia 57,742 3,694 3,671 4,193 69,299 249.48 Belarus 75,714 0 3,235 4,280 83,229 299.62 Slovenia 28,403 0 276 531 29,210 105.16 Republic of Serbia 37,730 0 1,071 2,721 41,522 149.48 Republic of Macedonia 35,939 1,484 0 2,032 39,455 142.04 Telekom Austria Group 620,678 21,533 37,530 74,048 753,788 2,713.64 2015 (in MWh) Austria 299,530 16,226 30,766 51,060 397,582 1,431.30 Bulgaria 78,970 130 243 7,377 86,719 312.19 Croatia 53,549 4,489 3,455 4,129 65,622 236.24 Belarus4) 79,459 0 2,867 4,385 86,711 312.16 Slovenia 23,862 0 345 275 24,482 88.14 Republic of Serbia 37,778 90 762 2,489 41,119 148.03 Republic of Macedonia 24,965 2,751 0 2,579 30,295 109.06 Telekom Austria Group 598,113 23,685 38,438 72,292 732,529 2,637.10 Change (in %) Austria 0 0 –6 –3 –1 –1 Bulgaria 9 –1 68 46 12 12 Croatia 8 –18 6 2 6 6 Belarus –5 n. a. 13 –2 –4 –4 Slovenia 19 n. a. –20 93 19 19 Republic of Serbia 0 –100 41 9 1 1 Republic of Macedonia 44 –46 n. a. –21 30 30 Telekom Austria Group 4 –9 –2 2 3 3 Table may include rounding differences. 1 Joule = 2,77777778 × 10 MWh -10 302-1, 302-4 1) Purchased and in-house production as well as diesel for emergency generators 2) Includes oil and gas 3) Includes diesel, petrol, CNG, LPG und natural gas without diesel for emergency generators 4) Due to increased data quality, Belarus' key figure ‘Fuels’ from 2015 was corrected. ENERGY AND FUEL CONSUMPTION1) 2016 (in TJ) From non-renewable sources From renewable sources2) Telekom Austria Group 338.75 15.15 1) Oil, diesel, petrol, LPG, CNG and natural gas, including diesel for emergency generators 302-1 2) Share of biogenic fuels in diesel and petrol ENVIRONMENT — RELATIVE INDICATORS Energy Efficiency Index1) Share of e-billing Water consumption 2016 (in MWh per terabyte) (in %) (per FTE, in m3) Telekom Austria Group 0.3 64 16 1) Energy Efficiency Index is defined as total electrical energy consumption, divided by total transported data volume 302-3 via fixed and mobile telecommunication networks. WASTE Recyclable Hazardous Waste Residual Total 2016 (in kg) Paper Metal Other2) Electronic Waste1) Batteries1) Other3) Waste Telekom Austria Group 995,802 1,738,550 622,555 1,104,577 850,853 423,359 2,175,230 7,910,925 2015 (in kg) Telekom Austria Group 1,159,898 1,800,630 558,198 671,119 255,761 263,639 2,277,007 6,986,252 Change (in %) Telekom Austria Group –14 –3 12 65 233 81 –4 13 Quantities were defined according to invoices of waste management companies or if this was not possible according to volumina of waste container capacities as well as waste collection intervals disposal. 1) Due to increased data quality, the key figures ‘Electronic Waste’ and ‘Batteries’ from 2015 were corrected. 2) Other recyclable waste issued by plastic, glass and biological waste. 3) Other hazardous waste includes mainly mobile phones and other hazardous materials. D ATA A P P E N D I X 49 WASTE — WASTE — WASTE — PAPER CONSUMPTION MOBILE PHONE RECYCLING WATER CONSUMPTION Printing & Number of old mobile 2016 (in kg) copy paper Other 1) Total 2016 phones collected 2016 (in m³) Total Austria 94,786 699,097 793,883 Austria 18,522 Telekom Austria Group 309,378 Bulgaria 107,627 127,897 235,524 Bulgaria 3,145 2015 (in m³) Croatia 10,792 161,663 172,455 Croatia 20 Telekom Austria Group 304,542 Belarus 49,660 34,239 83,899 Belarus 191,192 Change (in %) Slovenia 5,229 72,914 78,143 Slovenia 924 Telekom Austria Group 2 Republic of Serbia 21,520 114,138 135,658 Republic of Serbia n. m. Republic of Macedonia 50,000 144,479 194,479 Republic of Macedonia n. m. Telekom Austria Group 339,614 1,354,427 1,694,041 Telekom Austria Group 213,803 2015 (in kg) 2015 Austria 96,311 792,843 889,154 Austria 24,385 Bulgaria 91,175 161,809 252,984 Bulgaria 1,345 Croatia 11,833 140,898 152,730 Croatia 220 Belarus 40,943 40,493 81,436 Belarus n. m. Slovenia 5,042 69,209 74,251 Slovenia 455 Republic of Serbia 26,867 106,398 133,265 Republic of Serbia n. m. Republic of Macedonia 35,860 138,573 174,433 Republic of Macedonia n. m. Telekom Austria Group 308,030 1,450,222 1,758,252 Telekom Austria Group 26,405 Change (in %) Change (in %) Austria –2 –12 –11 Austria –24 Bulgaria 18 –21 –7 Bulgaria 134 Croatia –9 15 13 Croatia –91 Belarus 21 –15 3 Belarus n. m. Slovenia 4 5 5 Slovenia 103 Republic of Serbia –20 7 2 Republic of Serbia n. m. Republic of Macedonia 39 4 11 Republic of Macedonia n. m. Telekom Austria Group 10 –7 –4 Telekom Austria Group 710 301-3 1) Other includes mainly paper used for customer invoices and packing paper. ENVIRONMENT — RELATIVE INDICATORS Share of renewables Recycling quota2) CO2 intensity3) Average paper 2016 in the electricity consumption1) (in %) (in %) (per FTE) consumption (kg/FTE) Austria 99 70 3 11 Bulgaria 19 9 14 28 Croatia 39 53 22 8 Belarus 0.5 81 14 22 Slovenia 66 91 12 10 Republic of Serbia 24 60 37 23 Republic of Macedonia 17 84 32 61 Telekom Austria Group 61 67 11 19 2015 Austria 99 67 3 11 Bulgaria 19 14 13 25 Croatia 39 42 22 10 Belarus 0.5 68 18 23 Slovenia 67 91 20 10 Republic of Serbia 24 65 38 31 Republic of Macedonia 19 90 27 38 Telekom Austria Group 60 64 12 17 305-4 1) Derived from purchased electricity, values for Austria and Slovenia were calculated, the others measured on the basis of the standard national grid factor. 2) Fractions handed over to be recycled (non-hazardous waste, electronic waste and batteries) in relation to total waste. 3) CO2 intensity includes CO2 emissions from Scope 1 and Scope 2 market-based (excluding compensation) divided by the number of employees by end of the year. D ATA A P P E N D I X 50 GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS DIRECT AND INDIRECT OTHER Direct Indirect Scope 2 Indirect Scope 2 Total Scope 1+2 Total Scope 1+2 market-based 2016 (CO2 in t) Scope 1 market-based location-based market-based including compensation Scope 3 Austria 17,587 8,733 100,413 26,320 9,950 13,560 Bulgaria 4,049 48,947 48,947 52,995 52,995 29,900 Croatia 2,183 26,411 26,411 28,593 28,593 12,300 Belarus 1,497 29,429 29,429 30,926 30,926 18,453 Slovenia 141 6,065 6,065 6,206 6,206 2,559 Republic of Serbia 978 32,785 32,785 33,763 33,763 19,387 Republic of Macedonia 985 25,669 25,669 26,653 26,653 13,884 Telekom Austria Group 27,419 178,038 269,718 205,457 189,087 110,044 2015 (CO2 in t) Austria1) 17,827 10,029 – 27,856 12,456 11,453 Bulgaria 3,230 44,723 – 47,953 47,953 23,443 Croatia 2,385 24,476 – 26,861 26,861 11,168 Belarus2) 1,585 30,723 – 32,308 32,308 16,487 Slovenia 73 10,072 – 10,145 10,145 2,613 Republic of Serbia 998 32,679 – 33,677 33,677 16,962 Republic of Macedonia 1,486 23,484 – 24,970 24,970 12,051 Telekom Austria Group 27,584 176,186 – 203,770 188,370 94,177 Change (in %) Austria –1 –13 – –6 –20 18 Bulgaria 25 9 – 11 11 28 Croatia –8 8 – 6 6 10 Belarus –6 –4 – –4 –4 12 Slovenia 93 –40 – –39 –39 –2 Republic of Serbia –2 0 – 0 0 14 Republic of Macedonia –34 9 – 7 7 15 Telekom Austria Group –1 1 – 1 0 17 305-1, 305-2, 305-3, 305-5 Direct Scope 1 includes direct emissions from combustion of fossil fuels; emissions from cooling agents were not considered. Indirect Scope 2 includes indirect emissions from electric energy and district heating. Scope 3 takes into account the following emissions, which are not included in Scope 2: The costs associated with the upstream emissions from heating energy, electricity and fuels (fleet) and business travel (taxi, plane, train). These upstream emissions have been calculated according to ecoinvent. Emissions from the downstream use of customers’ mobile phones: For the three best-selling devices per subsidiary, a battery voltage of 3,7 Volt (V) was assumed and multiplied by the battery performance [mAh] according to the manufacturer (mAh*V/1000) = Wh). This is equivalent to the electricity demand per charge cycle per mobile phone. Assuming that a mobile phone is charged once a day, electricity demand has then been extrapolated for the whole year and subsequently the average electricity demand for the three best-selling devices per subsidiary was determined. These values were multiplied with the amount of SIM cards in circulation for each subsidiary. 1) Austrias’ key figure ‘Total Scope 1+2 marked-based including compensation’ was corrected for the year 2015. 2) Due to increased data quality, Belarus' key figure ‘Direct Scope 1‘ from 2015 was corrected. 3) Due to increased data quality, Belarus' and Austrias' key figure ‘Scope 3‘ from 2015 was corrected. EMPLOYEES SHARE OF LOCAL SHARE OF WOMEN COMPOSITION OF THE GOVERNANCE BODIES1) PERSONS IN IN SENIOR (AGE STRUCTURE) LEADERSHIP TEAMS MANAGEMENT POSITIONS Total Women below 30 30–50 above 50 2016 (in %) 2016 (in %) 2016 (in HC) (in %) (in HC) (in HC) (in HC) Austria 100 Austria 57 Telekom Austria Group 11 18 0 4 7 Cluster Croatia / Macedonia 86 Cluster Croatia / Macedonia 14 1) Capital representatives on the Supervisory Board 405-1 Cluster Serbia / Slovenia 44 Cluster Serbia / Slovenia 33 Bulgaria 89 Bulgaria 22 Belarus 27 Belarus 0 Telekom Austria Group 70 Telekom Austria Group 24 D ATA A P P E N D I X 51 GENDER DIVERSITY 2016 (in %) 2015 (in %) 2016 (in %) 2015 (in %) 2016 (in %) 2015 (in %) Share of female Share of female Share of female Share of female Share of local Share of local employees employees executives executives management management Austria 26 26 19 18 97 98 Bulgaria 48 54 54 58 99 99 Croatia 41 42 43 40 100 97 Belarus 67 61 40 38 11 40 Slovenia 40 40 39 40 59 59 Republic of Serbia 53 51 46 45 100 98 Republic of Macedonia 45 45 50 60 100 100 Telekom Austria Group 39 38 36 35 87 90 202-2, 405-1 ACCIDENT STATISTICS EMPLOYEE AGE STRUCTURE1) Accidents Days Fatal lost to 2016 (in FTE) below 30 30–50 above 50 2016 (number or in working days) accidents accidents Austria 670 4,677 3,242 Austria 5 0 18 Bulgaria 1,370 2,301 137 Bulgaria 8 0 234 Croatia 192 1,030 65 Croatia 11 0 175 Belarus 809 1,356 83 Belarus 1 0 10 Slovenia 96 412 24 Slovenia 2 0 42 Republic of Serbia 138 763 16 Republic of Serbia 8 0 346 Republic of Macedonia 135 655 32 Republic of Macedonia 8 1 110 Telekom Austria Group 3,411 11,193 3,598 Telekom Austria Group 43 1 935 2015 (in FTE) below 30 30–50 above 50 2015 (number or in working days) Austria 598 4,897 3,017 Austria 129 0 1,240 Bulgaria 1,187 2,285 135 Bulgaria 3 0 45 Croatia 198 984 57 Croatia 19 0 396 Belarus 682 1,009 86 Belarus 0 0 0 Slovenia 60 424 24 Slovenia 1 0 6 Republic of Serbia 164 702 13 Republic of Serbia 1 0 78 Republic of Macedonia 170 732 40 Republic of Macedonia 7 0 221 Telekom Austria Group 3,059 11,033 3,372 Telekom Austria Group 160 0 1,986 1) Apprentices not included 405-1 SOCIETY A1 INTERNET FOR ALL Participant Supporting Recommendation 2016 Trainings Participations satisfaction (in %) employees1) rate (in %) Austria 1,762 23,549 97 763 99 2015 Austria 1,666 22,980 99 811 99 Change (in %) Austria 6 2 n. m. –6 n. m. 1) Employee support in the first respective reporting year MEDIA LITERACY TRAININGS 2016 2015 Change Participations Participations (in %) Austria 23,549 22,980 2 Bulgaria 1,625 1,055 54 Croatia 75 248 –70 Belarus n. m. n. m. n. m. Slovenia 150 131 15 Republic of Serbia 100 n. m. n. m. Republic of Macedonia n. m. 67 n. m. Telekom Austria Group 25,499 24,481 4 D ATA A P P E N D I X 52 ASSURANCE STATEMENT 1) INTRODUCTION Disclosure 102-40, Disclosure 102-41, Disclosure 102-42, We were requested to perform a limited assurance engagement Disclosure 102-45, Disclosure 102-47, Disclosure 102-48, on Specific Topics of the Sustainability Report 2016 (hereafter Disclosure 102-49, Disclosure 102-50, Disclosure 102-51, ‘the Report’) of Telekom Austria Group (hereafter ‘TAG’). Disclosure 102-52, Disclosure 102-53, Disclosure 102-55 und Disclosure 102-56 The Report and the underlying procedures, systems and The Review includes no examination of the content. structures including subject matters and criteria are the responsibility of the Management of Telekom Austria AG. Our  Review of the procedures, systems and structures for responsibility is to make an assessment based on our review. collecting, gathering, aggregating and validating of the following in the Report disclosed topics: We conducted our review in accordance with the International Economic Performance Indicators: Operations assessed Standard on Assurance Engagements ISAE 3000 (Revised), for risks related to corruption (Disclosure 205-1) Assurance Engagements Other Than Audits or Reviews of Environmental Performance Indicators (only the Historical Financial Information and the Fachgutachten des contribution of A1, the operative subsidiary of TAG in Fachsenats für Unternehmensrecht und Revision über die Austria): Energy consumption within the organization Durchführung von sonstigen Prüfungen (KFS/PG 13) in order to (Disclosure 302-1), Energy intensity (Disclosure 302-3), obtain limited assurance on the subject matters. In a limited Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions (Disclosure 305-1), assurance engagement the evidence-gathering procedures Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions (Disclosure are more limited than in a reasonable assurance engagement, 305-2), Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions (Disclosure and therefore less assurance can be obtained. 305-3), GHG emissions intensity (Disclosure 305-4) Policies and practices with respect to Specific Absorption For this engagement the ‘Allgemeinen Einkaufsbedingungen Rate (SAR) of handsets (Telecommunication Sector für Beratungsleistungen und Services — Version Jänner Specific Indicator IO6) 2015’ as issued by TAG were agreed. Subsidiary the ‘General Disclosed indicators regarding the social initiative Conditions of Contract for the Public Accounting Professions’, ‘Internet für Alle’ as issued by the Chamber of Public Accountants and Tax Advisors in Austria on March 8, 2000, revised on February 21, 2011 (‘AAB 2011’), are binding. In cases of gross negligence the CRITERIA maximum liability is limited to EUR 2,000,000 and in cases Based on an assessment of materiality and risk we have of ordinary negligence the maximum liability is limited to evaluated the obtained information and supporting documents EUR 5,000. This amount constitutes a total maximum liability with respect to the conformity of the subject matters with cap which may only be utilised up to this maximum amount the GRI Standards GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016, GRI 205: even if there is more than one claimant or more than one Anti-Corruption 2016, GRI 302: Energy 2016 und GRI 305: claim has been asserted. Emissions 2016 issued by the Global Sustainability Standards Board (GSSB) and the Pilot Version 1.0 of the GRI TelecommuSUBJECT MATTERS nications Sector Supplement issued by the Global Reporting  Review, if the disclosed information regarding the Initiative (GRI). following General Standard Disclosures complies with the disclosure requirements as defined in GRI Standard — GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016: Disclosure 102-1, Disclosure 102-2, Disclosure 102-3, Disclosure 102-4, Disclosure 102-5, Disclosure 102-6, Disclosure 102-7, Disclosure 102-9, Disclosure 102-10, 1) The German text of the signed Statement, which refers to the German Version of Disclosure 102-11, Disclosure 102-12, Disclosure 102-13, the Report, is the only binding one. The English translation is not binding and shall Disclosure 102-14, Disclosure 102-16, Disclosure 102-18, not be used for the interpretation of the English Version of the Report. A S S U R A N C E S TAT E M E N T 53 PROCEEDINGS Based on our work described above with exception of the Our work included analytical procedures as well as interviews above mentioned issue nothing has come to our attention with employees from the headquarters in Vienna notified by the that causes us to believe that the procedures, systems board of directors of Telekom Austria AG. and structures for collecting, gathering, aggregating and validating of the: RESTRICTION IN USE Economic Performance Indicator: Operations assessed Our engagement is limited to the above mentioned Subject for risks related to corruption (Disclosure 205-1) Matters. We did not review any other content in the Report. contribution of A1 (the operative subsidiary of TAG in We have not tested comparative data from previous years. The Austria) to the Environmental Performance Indicators: scope of our review was limited to samples. Our work was Energy consumption within the organization (Disclosure performed on a sample basis as deemed necessary in the 302-1), Energy intensity (Disclosure 302-3), Direct (Scope 1) particular case, but did not include any substantial testing. GHG emissions (Disclosure 305-1), Energy indirect (Scope 2) Therefore, the assurance that we obtained is limited. GHG emissions (Disclosure 305-2), Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions (Disclosure 305-3), GHG emissions intensity (Disclosure 305-4) Telecommunication Sector Specific Indicator: Policies CONCLUSIONS and practices with respect to Specific Absorption Rate (SAR) of handsets (IO6) DISCLOSURE REQUIREMENTS disclosed indicators regarding the social initiative ‘Internet Based on our work described above nothing has come to our für Alle’ attention that causes us to believe that the disclosed informawere, in all material respects, not appropriate. tion regarding the following General Standard Disclosures Disclosure 102-1, Disclosure 102-2, Disclosure 102-3, Disclosure 102-4, Disclosure 102-5, Disclosure 102-6, Disclosure 102-7, Vienna, July 17, 2017 Disclosure 102-9, Disclosure 102-10, Disclosure 102-11, Disclosure 102-12, Disclosure 102-13, Disclosure 102-14, Deloitte Audit Disclosure 102-16, Disclosure 102-18, Disclosure 102-40, Wirtschaftsprüfungs GmbH Disclosure 102-41, Disclosure 102-42, Disclosure 102-45, Disclosure 102-47, Disclosure 102-48, Disclosure 102-49, Disclosure 102-50, Disclosure 102-51, Disclosure 102-52, Mag. Gerhard Marterbauer Disclosure 102-53, Disclosure 102-55 und Disclosure 102-56 Engagement Partner are, in all material respects, not in conformity with the disclosure requirements stipulated in GRI Standard GRI 102: p.p.a. Dipl.-Ing. Hannes Senft General Disclosures 2016. Engagement Manager PROCEDURES, SYSTEMS AND STRUCTURES FOR COLLECTING, GATHERING, AGGREGATING AND VALIDATING OF SPECIFIC TOPICS (QUALIFIED CONCLUSION) Due to unavailability of information the amount of electricity sold, heating sold, cooling sold and steam sold are not disclosed as requested by Disclosure 302-1 (Energy consumption within the organization). A S S U R A N C E S TAT E M E N T 54 REPORT DETAILS This sustainability report includes Telekom Austria Group’s content, topics, indicators and measures in the report refer, Group-wide activities and key figures in accordance with the unless indicated otherwise, to Telekom Austria AG and its reporting scope and the reporting period of the 2016 annual subsidiaries. Employees of the respective departments have report. For selected projects, qualitative information on the been entitled by the Executive Board with the complete and individual topics was included beyond 2016 up to the second accurate provision of information and documents for the quarter of 2016 and noted separately in the report. 102-50 verification process. The report was released by Alejandro Plater, CEO of Telekom Austria Group, 17 July 2017. This Financial key figures and staff data relate to the Group segment report meets the requirements of an annual progress report reporting segments defined in line with IAS 8, while environin accordance with the United Nation’s Global Compact. mental key figures and other social performance indicators 102-56 were collected for the operating companies of the respective countries. The consolidation of these key figures (especially The report is divided into three large sections; an introductory when it comes to emissions) refer to ownership structures, chapter explains the devised sustainability strategy in connecwhereby only 100 % subsidiaris are taken into account. tion with Telekom Austria Group’s core business and key social Telekom Austria Group assumes that the subsidiaries not and environmental trends. The main section of the report mentioned would have only made a minimal contribution is dedicated to the four major action areas and deals with to the published key figures, due to their size or activity (e. g. the strategic targets, implemented measures and current holding function). If key figures for non-operating companies challenges. In the third part of the report, the quantitative were collected together with those for operating subsidiaries data and key figures are recapped in the form of a data section. for organisational reasons, they were not differentiated from The GRI Content Index provides information on the individual each other and accordingly taken into account in the overall topics and indicators and the exact wording of the applied GRI amount. The Telekom Austria Group sustainability report is standard. The sustainability report chiefly focusses on envipublished once a year; the report for the 2015/2016 period was ronmental and social aspects of Telekom Austria Group’s activpublished in August 2016. 102-51, 102-52, 305-1, ities. For further information on economic development, 305-2, 305-3 the organisation profile and corporate governance, please refer to Telekom Austria Group’s annual report for 2016 This report is in reference to a series of GRI standards pub(www.telekomaustria.com/en/ir/annual-reports). Data colleclished by the Global Sustainability Standards Board (GSSB) (in tion for the sustainability report is based on the use of internal the style of option ‘core’). A detailed list of the individual GRI reporting processes as well as standardised questionnaires standards this report refers to is included in the Content Index in the individual operating subsidiaries of Telekom Austria on page 44. A description and the respective boundaries of Group. This data is assessed centrally and subjected to plausithe management approach (GRI 103: Management approach bility checks. Telekom Austria Group’s Corporate Sustainability 2016) toward the material topics is available on the website of Department evaluates the questionnaires annually with regard Telekom Austria Group at www.telekomaustria.com/en/csr/ to current developments, requirements and objectives. Definisustainability-reports. During the second quarter of 2017, a tions of and calculation methods used for individual indicanew materiality analysis was conducted. The topics and inditors and key figures set out in the report are explained in detail cators of the GRI Sector Supplement ‘Telecommunications’ by means of footnotes, either in the respective chapter itself were also included in the materiality analysis. The scope of the or in the data appendix starting on page 48. To indicate that reported indicators has changed compared to the previous person designations in the sustainability report refer to both year. Selected topics and indicators were reviewed by an indewomen and men, a gender-appropriate formulation was used. pendent auditor (see page 53 for details on the scope of the For the sake of legibility, only the masculine form was used in audit review). The certification was entrusted to Deloitte Audit other cases; however, the report always addresses both women Wirtschaftsprüfungs GmbH. Aside from the verification of the and men. sustainability report, the company has further business relationships with Deloitte Audit Wirtschaftsprüfungs GmbH. All R E P O R T D E TA I L S 55 Telekom Austria AG A1 Telekom Austria AG Mobiltel EAD Vipnet d.o.o. Lassallestrasse 9 Lassallestrasse 9 1, Kukush Street Vrtni put 1 1020 Vienna, Austria 1020 Vienna, Austria 1309 Sofia, Bulgaria 10000 Zagreb, Croatia Tel. +43 50 664 0 Tel. +43 50 664 0 Tel. +359 88 8088088 Tel. +385 14691 091 www.telekomaustria.com www.A1.net www.mtel.bg www.vipnet.hr 102-3 Unitary enterprise velcom A1 Slovenija, d. d.1) Vip mobile d.o.o. one.Vip DOO Skopje 36-2, Internatsionalnaya Šmartinska cesta 134b Bulevar Milutina Filip Vtori Makedonski 3 220030 Minsk, Belarus 1000 Ljubljana, Slovenia Milankoviića 1ž 1000 Skopje Tel. +375 17 21784 94 Tel.: +386 40 443 000 11070 Novi Beograd Republic of Macedonia www.velcom.by www.A1.si Republic of Serbia Tel. +389 2 311000 77 Tel.: +381 6 01234 www.onevip.mk www.vipmobile.rs 102-2, 102-9 IMPRINT CONTACT OWNER, EDITOR & PUBLISHER Irene Jakobi Telekom Austria AG Head of Group Sustainability Telekom Austria Group GROUP COMMUNICATIONS & SUSTAINABILITY irene.jakobi@telekomaustria.com Barbara Grohs 102-53 PROJECT TEAM Irene Jakobi, Anna Schwarzbauer, Maximilian Rabl ADVICE ON CONTENT Editorial deadline: June 2017 PwC Österreich ART DIRECTION, DESIGN & PRODUCTION Daniel Hammer IDEA & CONCEPT GREAT 3D RENDERINGS studioastic CONCEPTION AND PRODUCTION ONLINE EDITION 1) The renaming of Si.mobil d.d in Slovenija, d.d. in the course of alice interactive GmbH, www.pagestrip.com the rebranding became effective in April 2017. I M P R I N T & CO N TA C T 56 FOLLOW US! Telekom Austria Group velcom Twitter: TA_Group Facebook: velcomlikes Youtube: TelekomAustriaGroup Twitter: by_velcom www.telekomaustria.com Youtube: velcom Belarus www.velcom.by A1 Facebook: A1 A1 Slovenija Twitter: A1Telekom Facebook: A1Slovenija Youtube: EinfachA1 Twitter: A1Slovenija www.A1.net Youtube: A1 Slovenija www.A1.si Mobiltel Facebook: MobiltelBG Vip mobile Twitter: MobiltelBG Facebok: vipmobile.rs Youtube: MobiltelBG Twitter: Vip_mobile www.mtel.bg Youtube: Vip mobile www.vipmobile.rs Vipnet Facebook: vipnet one.Vip Twitter: vipnetHRV Facebook: VipMK Youtube: Vipnet Twitter: VipMK www.vipnet.hr Youtube: Vip MK www.onevip.mk www.telekomaustria.com
