Global Compact Communication on Progress (COP) NNE is an international company specialised in pharma engineering. We help pharmaceutical companies bring products to market by providing flexible, compliant and future-proof solutions. We have close to 2,000 professionals delivering global knowledge and best Sustainability practices, all dedicated to supporting our customers globally and on local sites. report 2016 Through focused pharma engineering we enable our customers to deliver on demand. Statement from the CEO NNE takes responsibility for the impact Simultaneously, the TBL affects how we We have initiated a journey where we our business has on people, communities manage our business with the ambition continuously will improve our perforand the environment and we strive to to be sustainable and account for the mance through strengthened target make a positive contribution to society performance within all three dimensions. setting and concrete actions. and human well-being. We build our These dimensions are in line with our company on the belief that to be a commitment to the 10 principles of the sustainable business we must balance UN Global Compact regarding human three bottom lines – financial, social and rights, labour standards, environment and environmental, i.e. the triple bottom line anti-corruption and our support to the (TBL) business principle. fulfilment of the sustainable development Jesper Kløve goals (SDGs). NNE has been a member of Chief Executive Officer and President the UN Global Compact since 2008. March 2017 3 4 Managing sustainability Performance in 2016 In 2016, we revised our internal govflexible, future-proof and compliant Operationalising global trends Objectives 2016 Status ernance structure and sustainability solutions that are also sustainable. and competences in projects strategy. As a result, our triple bottom Our policies, systems, approach NNE initiated and facilitated a number of Transform and operationalise global trends Ongoing process line approach is now firmly anchored at to competency development and workshops involving customers and adand customer needs to provide sustainable the executive management level like any knowledge sharing as well as people dressing common focus areas: consumpconsulting and services for all markets other part of our business strategy. and process development OUR POLICIES • Quality policy tion and emission of resources such as are essential to meet STR • Working environment water, energy and specific chemicals, inDevelop sustainability goals and KPIs for Ongoing process AT policy We integrate sustainability into our busithis challenge – and EG • Environmental and climate policy cluding epoxy, as well as sustainable facilour services IC • Security policy ness on strategic, tactical and operational we will continue to • People and communication policy ity design. Challenges encompassed global levels (as seen in the pyramid). At each focus on these trends and concrete options for best availImprove our platform for knowledge Our expert forums (COIs and level we strive for a balance of environareas throughable techniques, methods, goal setting, sharing/communication and training GTPs) got more influence MANAGEMENT PROCEDURES mental, financial and social sustainability out 2017. TA KPIs, etc. We focused on having a crossCTIC SYSTEMS • Business ethics ISO 9001 • Responsible sourcing (as illustrated in the ‘Global Goals’ figure AL • • ISO 14001 • Whistleblower option disciplinary approach for developing and OHSAS 18001 below.) These global goals (e.g. philan• suggesting viable sustainable solutions. In 20 thropy) are supported by actions at the house, we explored how to enhance the EMPLOYER SATISFACTION % local level. To ensure this support, each sustainability element in customer projects of our local organisations must establish GOVERNANCE BEST PRACTICE PEOPLE DEVELOPMENT by using our competences in new ways. We measure our success as a Our Model Community of interest (COI) Performance & Developtheir own sustainability goals in 2017. • Executive committee • Health, Safety & Environment • ment Process (PDP) Early project involvement, cross-disciplinary company in three dimensions: profit, OP • ER • Working environmental and COIs for processes and • Employee survey reviews and advisory groups as well as customer satisfaction and employee AT council products • Our Academy ION • Global Technology Partners (GTP) • Our Wiki With this strategy, we aim to continually AL strengthened risk assessment procedures satisfaction. In 2016 we obtained a rechallenge and inspire our customers with were among the development areas. cord high employee ambassador score increase in our Integration of sustainability in our business (employees scoring high on loyalty carbon footprint for and engagement) of 38.1 percent – the best score we have seen in the ten transportation. years we have conducted the survey, COMPETENCE DEVELOPMENT and ahead of our 2016 target of 35 GLOBAL GOALS ENVIRONMENTAL FOOTPRINT AND EMPLOYEE SATISFACTION percent. 38.1 In order to deliver the best possible Our indirect carbon and water % NNE supports environmentally solutions for our customers, NNE footprint associated with our advice friendly solutions when sourcing needs to provide its employees with to customers remains our most supplies and using vendors. the competencies to do so. That important environmental impact. means providing them with an enviNNE supports CO2 reduction by ronment where they can learn, thrive We are striving to set up KPIs and commuting together, conducting online Sourcing meetings (e.g. via Skype) when possible and develop. Therefore, we invested Ambassador score monitor how well we advise our NNE supports education more than two days of pharma engicustomers in this area. NNE reviews to limit transportation, by offering of engineers in terms of close Resource neering training for each employee in its direct environmental footprint sustainably fuelled company cars and corporation with universities, efficiency through low energy office buildings addition to other training activities. based on contributions from offices “Ph.D” positions and internal 2 education. and transportation. BUSINESS ETHICS NNE supports a good physical NNE supports the development and mental environment to of market-leading health, safety days of training NNE has a strong governance structure Our overseas business increased make sure our employees have Competencies and environment (HSE) compefor each employee. related to ethical questions and remains significantly in 2016, which unfortua healthy and a less stressful life. Education tencies to ensure that we can focused on training and retraining all nately resulted in a 20% increase in Environmental apply the best HSE practices in We also want to be able to tap into employees in “Doing business the right our carbon footprint for transportaour solutions to our customers. NNE supports equal opporWorking the entire talent pool. Therefore, way.” In addition, we have finalised tion. Contribution from our offices tunities and acknowledges environment diversity measured as gender, nationour responsible sourcing programme, remains more or less unchanged. diversity in terms of age, ality and age and as well as inclusion which is now implemented. gender and nationality for is monitored. There is currently one our employees to have the same conditions woman amongst the appointed Diversity board members (goal at least one). for development and The overall gender split was 34 to set the strongest team. Social Financial PARTNERSHIP WITH SOS CHILDREN’S VILLAGES percent female and 66 percent male in 2016. Across all line management Many of NNE’s employees in Denmark appointed as our global partner. It NNE plays an active part positions, 27 percent were held by and abroad have voiced their expecmakes sense to support basic needs for in supporting communiPhilanthropy women, which is 1% up from 2015. tations for the company to partner children and especially the education ties and social work up with relevant non-governmental of children in areas where NNE is presrelated to children in order Operating All line All employees profit management organisations in an effort to contribute ent. These children are tomorrow’s colto build a foundation margin 34% 27% for education. to society. SOS Children’s villages has, leagues. Employees and NNE donated for the second consecutive year, been a total of DKK 252,600 in 2016 . NNE delivers sustainable and 252,600 DKK competitive financial results with 8% in operating profit margin. 66% 73% Gender split
