GLOBAL COMPACT COP/2017 By Schmidt Hammer Lassen Architects ARoS/ Aarhus/ Denmark Content/ 04 About us 07 Statement of support/ CEO 09 The Global Compact/ Principles 10 We support 11 Principles/ Human Rights 14 Principles/ Labour Standards 21 Principles/ Environment 29 Principles/ Anti-corruption 33 Selected Architecture 55 Imprint DOKK1/ Aarhus/ Denmark Core Values We aspire to the highest standard in everything we do. Driven by the vocation that great architecture generates lasting and positive change, we combine intelligent solutions with exceptional experiences that appeal to senses and mind. 3 About us Schmidt Hammer Lassen is an international architecture practice and one of Scandinavia’s most recognized, awardwinning studios committed to innovative and sustainable design. Schmidt Hammer Lassen was founded in Denmark in 1986 and the practice has since grown substantially and now employs 175 staff, working out of studios in Aarhus, Copenhagen and Shanghai.The practice upholds a distinguished track record of architecture across a broad spectrum of building typologies and has established a reputation for devising truly sustainable solutions with high emotional value, that benefit the environment, society, user, and the overall economy. Adopting a holistic approach, we believe that the basis of sustainable design is the understanding that every component influences the project. We continuously challenge the concept of architecture by adding innovative methodology and technology to classic Scandinavian design traditions. Schmidt Hammer Lassen have supported the UN Global Compact initiative since 2008 and submits COP #8 in December 2017. The COP is available on the UN Global Compact website and on www.shl.dk 4 4 Company Profile 2017 Founded in 1986 3 offices 175 co-workers 20 nationalities International projects on 4 continents 5 Partners & CEO 2017 The group of partners includes senior partners Morten Schmidt, Bjarne Hammer, John F. Lassen, Kim Holst Jensen and Kristian Lars Ahlmark, along with partners Chris Hardie and Rong Lu. Day-to-day management of the practice is the responsibility of CEO Bente Damgaard. 6 Statement of Support/ CEO Bente Damgaard BENTE DAMGAARD/ MSc in Accounting & State Authorized Public Accountant CEO of Schmidt Hammer Lassen Architects since 2006 For more than 30 years, Schmidt Hammer Lassen have In our COP/2017, we take the opportunity to report on Global Compact Network Denmark. We are looking forward provided excellent architectural services all over the world. initiatives taken and achievements attained and we present to be part of the Danish network working together on Today we work on four continents with the overall goal selected architectural projects that add documented value “making global goals local business”. to optimize and improve existing standards for building and positive change to people, places and communities. design and construction. In acknowledgement of the substantial influence and responsibility of the building industry, Schmidt Hammer We believe that architecture solutions increasingly can Lassen have signed the Nordic Built Charter as well as and will drive positive change in our world. To accomplish The Charter of the Danish Association for Responsible this, we continuously seek to get smarter through new Construction. Bente Damgaard/ CEO knowledge and methodology. We engage in innovative December 2017 research projects, establish collaborative partnerships with Since 2008, we have supported the Global Compact both industry and higher education institutions, and we proinitiative and the principles continuously constitute an vide targeted internal continuing professional development essential policy frame of our CSR approach. In October to all staff members. 2017, we were excited to join the foundation of the new 7 The UN Global Compact/ Schmidt Hammer Lassen Architects joined the UN Global to improve the major social, economic and environmental Compact initiative in 2008. Global Compact is the world‘s challenges that follow globalization. Global Compact has largest voluntary CSR initiative and initiates and supports today grown to be an extensive international network of corporate operational and strategic focus on social more than 12,000 signatories from over 170 countries. responsibility. This important initiative was started in 2000 Global Compact‘s ten fundamental principles constitute the under the leadership of then Secretary General Kofi Annan. core of the stated objectives and cover four key focus areas: The overall goal is to actively commit companies to work human rights, labour rights, environment, and anti-corruption. 8 The Royal Libray/ Copenhagen/ Denmark 10 GUIDING PRINCIPLES Human Rights/ Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2 Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Labour Standards/ Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4 the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5 the effective abolition of child labour; Principle 6 the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Environment/ Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8 undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility, and; Principle 9 encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Anti-Corruption/ Principle 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. 9 We support/ The UN Sustainable Development Goals The World’s Best News Campaign/ 2017 In 2015, leaders from 193 countries came together to Schmidt Hammer Lassen Architects annually participates In 2016, the World’s Best News was founded as an commit to ending poverty, combating climate change, and as business partner in the Danish information campaign independent association and the campaign event is a fighting injustice by adopting a new set of 17 measurable The World’s Best News with the overall goal to spread the unique collaboration between the UN, DANIDA, and more global Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). word, that the United Nations’ Global Goals for Sustainable than 100 Danish NGOs and 100 private sector companies. Development are achievable; the world is making huge The UN Global Compact is committed to be a leading progress. Please find more information on the Campaign website: catalyst of this agenda – based on the sound values and www.verdensbedstenyheder.dk principles that the UN Global Compact is built upon. As business partner, Schmidt Hammer Lassen mark the official campaign at our offices outside the organization Schmidt Hammer Lassen will collaborate with the recently we contribute by spreading the positive news on our Social established Global Compact Network Denmark on “making Media networks reaching thousands of readers. global goals local business”. 10 PRINCIPLES ON HUMAN RIGHTS Principle 1/ Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2/ businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. 11 The Spinning Mills/ Vejle/ Denmark Schmidt Hammer Lassen Architects support the United Nations’ Universal Declaration on Human Rights and the UN Global Development Goals. We work in compliance with Danish legislation which meets international conventions on human rights. 12 Malmö Live/Malmö/ Denmark Danish charter supports CSR in the construction sector/ Schmidt Hammer Lassen joined the Danish Association for Responsible Construction in 2014. The objective of the association is to develop and promote social responsibility in the Danish property and construction sector based on a charter of six principles. 1. We systematically assess whether we are observing the principles of the Charter in the projects in which we are involved 2. We assess how collaboration partners and suppliers manage social responsibility 3. We establish dialogue with collaboration partners and stakeholders 4. We work for sustainable solutions 5. We have sound employment and working conditions 6. We demonstrate independence and anti-corruption practices By signing the charter Schmidt Hammer Lassen Architects declare our support to the six principles. We believe that cross-disciplinary collaboration will only contribute to strengthen social responsibility within the building sector and will support and inspire good practice. 13 Malmö Live/Malmö/ Denmark PRINCIPLES ON LABOUR STANDARDS Principle 3/ Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Principle 4/ the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. Principle 5/ the effective abolition of child labour. Principle 6/ the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. 14 Human Resource Management/ SHL DAYS 2016/ Shanghai/ China/ Labour rights/ At Schmidt Hammer Lassen Architects, we are exclusively dependent on staff members’ Additionally, Schmidt Hammer Lassen engage in several specifically selected and designed performance to continue the success of creating and delivering modern, holistic and activities to uphold and extend these rights and continuously improve conditions for all sustainable architectural solutions for a diverse and international group of private and staff members. public clients. Attracting, retaining, developing, and ensuring the health and safety of the In Denmark, a collective agreement is in place and applicable to the majority of the staff members is therefore important to the organizational development and a top priority organisation’s staff members. Colleagues in Shanghai and minor project offices are not in the strategic management teams’ ongoing efforts to realize the visions of our practice. covered by the Danish collective agreement, but the organization has made significant The Scandinavian countries are by definition attending to secure labour rights and conditions efforts to create conditions comparable to the rights and benefits included in the Danish of any staff members through collective agreements and state imposed regulations collective agreement. National rules and regulations in force on the non-Danish office sites concerning employee safeguarding. are followed with rigor. 15 A democratic work place/ The well-being of staff members is highly valued by the organisation. Three dedicated committees are in place to support, that we act in compliance with the defined goals and that procedures are followed. The strategic management participates actively and cooperatively in this work alongside staff elected representatives. The Health & Safety Committee takes precautionary measures against any form of counterproductive physical and non-physical working conditions, including the prevention of any labour related accident. The Collaboration Committee ensures a positive working environment and engage in dialogue with union representatives about organisational development and adjustment to foster employee commitment and retention. The Continuing Education Committee organises and administers the organisation’s strategic engagements in relation to staff member training and professional development. We communicate on general work conditions, benefits, rules and regulations in the SHL Staff Hand-book, which we hand out when welcoming a new colleague alongside a well-planned on-boarding program. DOKK1/ Aarhus/ Denmark 16 Work environment/ In Individual development/ A mandatory and well planned Employee Development Dialogue / EDD is held annually for all staff members together with their manager. This valuable session is focusing on motivation, job satisfaction, continuing professional development and career development. The outcome of the EDD is implemented in the Individual Development Plan/ IDP for each employee – this is done in collaboration with the manager as well. Additionally, there is an annual salary negation for every employee together with a status EDD. At all locations, Schmidt Hammer Lassen encourage the employees to participate in a wide range of social and professional development activities. We love to celebrate won competitions, birthdays and anniversaries by inviting to informal gatherings. The SHL Intranet monthly presents a variety of activities to ensure a spirited culture, including knowledge-sharing sessions, lectures, courses, site visits and inspiring study trips. CPD Plan To ensure assisted learning activities and ongoing professional and personal development for all employees, the Continuing Professional Development Committee annually compile a CPD Plan covering the majority of the assisted learning activities open for everyone. Our knowledge groups GREEN/ BIM/ BUILD arrange a variety of educational activities. In addition to the CPD plan, many different individual learning activities take place, also funded by company means. 17 Work Place Assessment/ The organisation administers a detailed employee survey, the Workplace Assessment/ WPA. The WPA is conducted once every third year and it support us in monitoring organisational development on physical working conditions as well as psychological working environment. In 2016, the WPA consisted of 64 questions in 10 categories. The categories covered topics as follows: physical working environment/ the daily work/ professional development/ my manager and reputation. In the assessment, scores range from zero to 100. We consider a score above 70 as satisfactory. In 2016, the number of respondents was 81% and 7 out of 10 categories scored above 70. The categories reputation/ general well-being and on boarding had an impressive score above 80. Some important questions in the WPA related to job-satisfaction has recurred in the last three surveys, showing a positive steady increase in the categories covering reputation and general well-being. The Executive Board in collaboration with Health & Safety/ Collaboration Committee / Managers / HR identify the key focus areas to be handled and prioritized in continuation of the employee feedback. Hereafter, action is taken on different organizational levels. Non-discrimination Non-discrimination/ Members of staff are the most valuable resource at Schmidt Hammer Lassen. We believe that diversity supports an innovative work environment with excellent architecture as a result. The staff of employees today counts around 20 different nationalities with an almost equal gender distribution. We focus on competencies and skills at any recruitment Schmidt Hammer Lassen/Office/ Copenhagen/Denmark and internal promotion within the organisation. 18 Collective Agreement/ In the section below, we outline the basic rules and regulations of the collective agreement pertinent to safeguarding labour rights and we include additional activities designed by the organisation to stimulate a positive working environment, where work life and family life is well balanced. The Danish Labour Law and Collective Agreement for architects in Denmark provides the following benefits to safeguard employee interests. 1/ Fixed salary tiers regulated according to seniority + individually salary negotiations 2/ Pension scheme 3/ Working hours regulation and overtime compensation 4/ Favourable maternity and paternity leave 5/ Holiday regulations (31 days per annum) 6/ Continuing Professional Development (CPD) funding and shared learning activities 7/ Employee representation on several organisational boards (Health & Safety committee, Collaboration Committee and Continuing Professional Development Committee) 8/ Free union representative elections without management intervention Additionally, the organisation offer extra health care insurances for a majority of staff members. Responsible behaviour/ At Schmidt Hammer Lassen responsible behaviour is integrated both in our professional work and in our everyday work life. Standards covering responsible behaviour are thoroughly described in the SHL Staff Handbook. A lunch scheme in place at the Danish offices, allowing staff members to enjoy healthy, fresh and well-prepared lunch meals. We avoid waste of food by offering a take-away solution. The supplier is certified with the Organic Trademark verified by the Danish Veterinary and Food Administration. 19 SHL DAYS/ At Schmidt Hammer Lassen, we have proud traditions when it comes to our grand gatherings; the SHL Days. Every second year, all staff members are invited to come together for a couple of days, to get inspired, to experience excellent architecture and to enjoy the company of good colleagues. In 2016, the SHL Days took place in Shanghai. 150 staff members set out to meet at a four-day adventurous architect-tour in one of the world’s most fascinating and fastest growing cities. We wanted to experience the unique atmosphere of Shanghai, where beauty and charm coexist with kitsch and commercialism. From the air, waterfront and ground we explored traditional and new architecture by Chinese and international architects, among these selected projects by Schmidt Hammer Lassen. 20 GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIPLES ON ENVIRONMENT Principle 7/ Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8/ undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility, and; Principle 9/ encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Vaxjo City Library/ Vaxjo/ Sweden 21 Above all, sustainability is about responding to the basic needs of a client, which can be an individual, a commercial enterprise, a school or an entire community. In the final analysis, sustainability is about delivering design that functions successfully as a catalyst for positive change. In other words, we are talking about successful place-making: when it works, sustainable design can engender a sense of civic pride, a sense of identity. This is an extraordinary challenge for architects – it is at the very heart of what we do. The Green Manifesto/ Schmidt Hammer Lassen Architects 22 A GREEN agenda/ The new Sports and Certified knowledge Administrations Centre and Town At Schmidt Hammer Lassen Architects, we commit to develop projects and Hall in Skanderborg is the first realise buildings based on a holistic concept of sustainability. We work in Danish public building to reach the multidisciplinary teams with innovative solutions in integrated design processes. We do this in frameworks of various certification systems as well as project DGNB Platinum Standard specific goal setting working closely together with our clients organisation. Our architectural staff counts in-house experts in the most important building certification systems, BREEAM International Assessors, LEED Ac-credited Professionals, DGNB International and DGNB Denmark Consultants and Cradle to Cradle trained professionals, offering certification processes and benchmarking for our clients projects. This enables us to evaluate the “green performance” of a building and give a profound understanding of the interaction of different sustainable parameters. The evaluations are used to seek for optimized green solutions during the design process and better building performances without compromising the ambition for high quality architecture. Knowledge sharing is fundamental in our practice and in the CPD strategy.. The CPD strategy aids to raise the common level and understanding of holistic sustainability throughout all of SHL. An important knowledge sharing platform is our GREENgroup, where passionate employees exchange cutting edge knowledge of highly sustainable projects and green ideas. In close collaboration with the architecture schools and university colleges we engage with students in different ways as mentors and external examiners in mutual inspiration. We participate in network initiatives with the focus on implementation of green value management, sustainable reuse of existing building mass and sustainable city development. The specialized staff members of our studio provide public lectures and communicate on our experienced work. We engage in strategic partnerships in pursuit of working with the UN Sustainable Development Goals like the Active House Alliance, where SHL is a supporting member and represented in the Advisory Board. 23 Selected certified projects/ by Schmidt Hammer Lassen Architects Sir Duncan Rice Library/Aberdeen/Scotland/ Office Building Buddinge/Copenhagen/Denmark/ BREEAM excellent Halifax Central Library/Halifax/Canada/ LEED Gold Certified DGNB Silver Certified Dokk1/Aarhus/Denmark/ Meets Danish class 2015 low Amazon Court Building/Prague/the Czech Republic/ The Crystal/Copenhagen/Denmark/Energy-consumption energy requirements DGNB Gold Certified reduction and best practice PV integrated facade design Urban Mountain/Oslo/Norway/Refurbishment project Green Valley/Shanghai/China/Office facilities with a high Skanderborg Administrations and Sports Centre/ employing Cradle to Cradle principles and targeting a level of flexibility and low operating costs DGNB Platinum BREEAM Outstanding certification 24 BIM/ State Library Re-development Victoria/ Melbourne/ Australia 25 Building Information Modelling/BIM Sustainability and Building Information Modelling/ BIM go hand in hand. At Schmidt Hammer Lassen, we have been working with BIM for many years, and today execute all major projects with the use of BIM. Internally, BIM is used to develop and validate the designs of our buildings with the use of sustainable analysis and simulations, which allows us to optimize documentation of the project for construction. Externally, BIM is used on all project organization levels to communicate the design enabling a smoother decision making process. The result is an optimally coordinated process and collaboration and minimisation of errors. We facilitate the dialogue with clients and related stakeholders to clarify and define the scope of information and data which need to be successfully handed over on delivery of the project, for better and lower cost facility management. When environmental analysis and simulation tools are used from the earliest stages of a design process, projects can be designed to benefit from local environmental conditions such as site orientation, solar access and seasonal winds as well as support selection of the used materials. For the client, coming user and the community, this means a more sustainable, enduring and energy efficient building. 26 University of Aberdeen New Library/Aberdeen/ UK Building new knowledge/ Successful integration of new methods and technologies requires an extensive level of knowledge sharing. Therefore, the BIM management group engages in BIM Networks, BIM standard organisations and conferences, and also lectures at conferences and educational institutions. These activities are essential in order to build and share new knowledge – internally as well as externally. Schmidt Hammer Lassen is co-founder and member of the BIM7AA, a voluntary collaboration between seven Danish architectural practices in collaboration with the Aarhus School of Architecture. The purpose of BIM7AA is to develop and continuously optimise commonly developed BIM-tools, -methods and -processes with focus on interdisciplinary cooperation. Knowledge Centre/ Molio Schmidt Hammer Lassen is also member of Molio, a construction knowledge centre focusing on digital solutions and new technology. Molio is taking over the role as the buildingSMART network in Denmark and will also be the new buildingSMART Nordic Chapter partner and coordinator of activities in Denmark. BIM is also one of the key cornerstones in the internal strategic continuing education plan. Additional BIM has its own internal taskforce and a separate internal budget as Schmidt Hammer Lassen acknowledges that being a first mover on this field requires constant research, a large professional network and education. Running evaluations of the BIM projects is part of these knowledge sharing initiatives. Links/ www.molio.dk 27 Quality Assurance/ Schmidt Hammer Lassen have wide-ranging experience in high-level quality management to meet both client demands and regulatory requirements from the very beginning of a project until final handover. Working internationally, the applied Quality Assurance standards need to be applicable to the multitude of projects, that we work on all over the world, as well as support the unique architectural quality. The quality assurance policy of the practice is described in detail in the SHL Quality Assurance Manual, and it has been prepared in accordance with the following guidelines and standards: / Quality Control in Architectural Practices published by The Danish Association of Architectural Firms / The DS/ISO 9001 standard The SHL Quality Assurance Manual is a process tool that includes guidelines and standards for planning, implementation and quality control. The Handbook is verified and updated on an ongoing basis. 28 Halifax New Public Library/ Halifax/ Canada GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIPLES ON ANTI-CORRUPTION Principle 10/ Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. 29 ARoS/Aarhus/Denmark Business Ethics/ The independent international NGO, Transparency International was founded in 1993 and is now present in more than 100 countries. The organization annually publishes reports on corruption – and for many years Denmark has been placed as one of the world’s least corrupt countries. The result underlines the very high standards of Danish companies. We hold a reputation as a responsible and conscientious business partner and dissociate from corruption, extortion, and bribery in any form. The studio has never been involved in corruption or bribery and the company has worked out policy guidelines which are carefully described in the Schmidt Hammer Lassen Staff Handbook that is handed out to all employees on their first day at work. In this we state that: „Our business ethics are grounded on trustworthiness, honesty and transparency. Accordingly, employees at all levels must avoid letting financial and/or personal interests influence – or arouse suspicion of influencing their work-related decisions or conflicting with the interests and ethics of the organisation. Moreover, we expect all employees to act in accordance with applicable legislation.“ 30 Dokk1/Aarhus/Denmark In 2015 Nordic Innovation published the book ”30 Sustainable Nordic buildings” featuring best practice examples based on the Nordic Built Charter principles. Schmidt Hammer Lassen’s highrise winning project in downtown Oslo, the Urban Mountain, will become another icon of the Norwegian capital and sets new standards for sustainability. 31 The Nordic Built Charter/ Schmidt Hammer Lassen Architects have signed The Nordic Built programme combines key Nordic the Nordic Built Charter; committed to accelerate strengths, provides attractive and effective arenas the development of sustainable building concepts for collaboration and realizes concrete projects that initiated by the Nordic ministers for trade and industry. demonstrate world-class scalable solutions. The Nordic Built Charter is a public declaration of the values, intentions and ambitions of a united Nordic In 2012 the Nordic Built Challenge – a high profiled building sector. It describes a holistic approach to the international architectural competition was built environment – taking energy, climate, economy organized by Nordic Innovation. The ambition were to and people into account. create five lighthouse projects for the Nordic region, one in each country, demonstrating the solutions for The intention is that relevant actors from across sustainable refurbishment of the existing building Nordic borders and across the entire value chain of stock, which the Nordic building industry is able to the building sector will commit to its ten principles. deliver. In short, The Nordic Built Charter gives the building sector a platform for cooperation and provides a With the Urban Mountain refurbishment project common set of fundamentally Nordic and sustainable Schmidt Hammer Lassen and team won 1st prize values, promoting a balanced and integrated societal for the innovative and sustainable new landmark development based on environmental, economic for the city of Oslo. and social sustainability. More information: www.nordicinnovation.org/nordicbuilt/ the-challenge/ 32 Urban Mountain/Oslo/Norway SELECTED ARCHITECTURE/ SOCIAL/ SUSTAINABLE/ IMPACT/ 33 Tjuvholmen Apartments House/ Oslo/ Norway/ Skanderborg Fælled/ Sports and Administration Centre/ Town Hall/Skanderborg/Denmark First DGNB Platinum certification to Danish public building Architect/ Schmidt Hammer Lassen Architects Size/ 18,424 m² Competition/ 2013, 1st prize in PPP competition Client/ Skanderborg Municipality Contractor/ KPC A/S Sustainability//DGNB Platinum 34 The Green Tower/ sharing/ social/ living/ urban/ interaction/ community/ flexible/ green/ Skanderborg Fælled/ Sports and Administration Centre/ Town Hall Skanderborg/Denmark The new Sports and Administrations Centre and Town Hall in Skanderborg is the first Danish public building to reach the DGNB Platinum Standard, the highest certification under the Danish DGNB sustainability standard. In 2017, the Green Building Council Denmark completed a thorough certification process of the completed project, which included 182 different parameter in terms of environmental, financial and technical quality. The project scored high on all parameters, and especially the building’s overall economy performance as an energy-efficient building of high quality for a low overall economy was emphasised. The new 18,000 m2 Sports and Administration Centre offers multiple administrative facilities for the municipality of Skanderborg in combination with new sports facilities for the use of the entire community. The aim is a complex, which sets new standards, supporting an innovative and multi-disciplinary work culture as well as being a vibrant gathering point for citizens of Skanderborg. The project appears informal, open, and accessible and in close contact with the unique surroundings of the recently established natural resort, Anebjergskov. Several sustainable measures are integrated in the design of the building, such as optimized use of daylight, natural ventilation and an efficient building envelope. Green plants grow on selected facades as solar screening whilst increasing local biodiversity, as well as indoor green walls contribute to a good indoor climate. More info available on the project’s website/ www.skanderborgfælled.dk/ 35 Vendsyssel Theatre/ Hjørring/ Denmark A dynamo for cultural life Architect/ Schmidt Hammer Lassen Architects Size/ 4,200 m² Competition/ 2013, 1st prize in restricted competition Client/ Municipality of Hjørring/ Realdania Landscape Architect/ LIW Planning Aps Engineer/ Brix & Kamp A/S/ ALECTIA A/S Visuals/ Beauty & the Bit Awards/ 2017, City of Hjørring Architecture Prize Status/ Opened January 2017 36 The Green Tower/ sharing/ social/ living/ urban/ interaction/ community/ flexible/ green/ Vendsyssel Theatre/ Hjørring/ Denmark The cultural life in Vendsyssel and the region’s identity and self-awareness have been strengthened through the establishment of a new theatre in Hjørring city centre. The building is a dynamo for cultural life throughout northern Jutland, thus supporting both settlement, education and business. Vendsyssel is an area with a long and proud tradition of art and culture, and the new theatre con-tributes to the cultural life of the region as a cultural lighthouse for the entire regional cultural life of Nordjylland. At the same time, Hjørring’s new theatre building helps to create renewed activity and coherence in the city. The vision of the new theatre has been to reinvent the role of cultural institutions as part of the city’s public space. In addition, it serves as a gathering place and growth layer for local youth and the non-organized people who are interested in music, theatre and cultural life. The theatre is a visionary building that contributes to strengthening the already strong cultural life in Vendsyssel. In addition, the theatre will help to make the city and the municipality more attrac-tive for attracting competent employees and ultimately creating settlements. The ambition for the new theatre has been to create a building, which blends into the surrounding environment while standing out as a new, vibrant organism in the city. The architectural and func-tional concept has five main themes: integration in the city, openness, functionality, flexibility and materiality. The result is a significant building, which relates to its function in a pragmatic way. The dynamic and multifunctional complex includes four halls; Music hall (190 seats), Black Box (150), rehearsal hall and a large flexible hall with up to 430 seats that can be set to “in-the-round” theatre. 37 Shenzhen East Waste-to-Energy Plant/ Shenzhen/ China The world’s largest waste-to-energy plant Architect/ Schmidt Hammer Lassen Architects Size/ 112,645 m² Competition/ 2016, 1st prize, international competition Client/ Shenzhen Energy Environmental Engineering Ltd. Partner architect/ Gottlieb Paludan Architects Structural Engineer/ Schlaich Bergermann Partners Visuals/ Beauty & the Bit 38 Shenzhen East Waste-to-Energy Plant/ Shenzhen/China In 2016, Schmidt Hammer Lassen Architects in collaboration with Gottlieb Paludan Architects won the international competition to design the world’s largest waste to energy power plant in Shenzhen, China. Located on the outskirts of Shenzhen, the Shenzhen East Waste-to-Energy Plant will incinerate 5,000 tonnes of waste per day, generating 550 million kWh every year. With a population of 20 million, Shenzhen produces 15,000 tonnes of waste a day, a number that is increasing approximately 7% per year. To counteract this, Shenzhen Energy wishes to build a new plant that not only uses the most advanced technological processes in waste incineration but also act as a source of education for the citizens of the city. The proposal organizes the entire plant, including auxiliary buildings, into one circular building breaking the traditional rectangular layout of an industrial power plant. By proposing a clean circular form, the footprint of the plant reduces the amount of excavation required to build on the site. Public visitors are invited into the plant through a landscaped park, via an entrance bridge that rises between the stacks to an entrance lobby and visitor centre overlooking the plant machinery. An internal circular path and walkway circle the plant explaining each process, before leading up to a 1.5km panoramic public walkway on the roof overlooking the surrounding landscape and back towards the city. The roof is designed to be covered by up to 44,000m2 of photovoltaic panels, providing the opportunity for the plant to not only provide a cleaner way to deal with the city’s waste but also contribute to the renewable energy provision for the city. The plant is intended to showcase the Waste to Energy production as an important technical process that is geared to deal with both the issues of growing waste, but also the issue of finding new more environmentally friendly ways of generating electricity. At the same time, visitors can become informed on the challenge of the growing waste we produce every day and be educated on initiatives on how we can reduce our own amount of daily waste. Schmidt Hammer Lassen has built a reputation for bringing a strong Scandinavian design approach to large complex public projects in China. Detailed design work is due to begin during 2016, and the plant is scheduled to go live in 2020. 39 The Green Tower/ High-rise build as a sustainable community 40 40 With this project we wanted to explore, how high-rise build in timber can be organized as a sustainable community. Morten Schmidt, senior partner 41 41 The Green Tower/ A new typology Schmidt Hammer Lassen have developed a new high-rise concept. The concept proposes a new typology for high rises. As oppose to the common method of designating fixed units for sale, this project proposes to design a structural framework for housing units, community facilities, and vegetation to be infilled at later stages. This approach creates the flexibility for a high-rise to serve multiple purpose through time. It is adaptable spatially, socially and economically. This type of building may serve as a green wall in the dense urban area at one point and then infilled by modular housings at a later stage. Modularity is a key factor in this typology. Prefabricated units can simplify the construction and allow units to be expand or reduced upon demand. Yet, the types of modules can be variable to create different spatial and social opportunities over time. Sustainable Housing Development of contemporary cities and urban environments is often operating on traditional and even outdated approaches for residential high-rise, designing towers that only address the demand for housing and utilizing obsoleted techniques, that organize family units into compact and isolated order. Over time, this type of housing can be prone to become a burden to our cities’ environmentally and socially and effect degrading of market value. It is crucial to develop a new housing typology that considers the whole environment for a sustainable lifestyle, Sustainable Housing solutions. The total environment for sustainable housing converges three key aspects: environment, community and building construction. 42 International Criminal Court/ The Hague/ Netherlands/ A landmark for peace and justice Architect/ Schmidt Hammer Lassen Architects Client/The International Criminal Court (ICC) Area/ 54,000 m² / 1,200 workplaces Competition/ 2008-2010, first prize in restricted international competition Engineer/ Royal Haskoning Nederland B.V. and Esbensen Consulting Engineers AS Landscaping/ SLA Project management/ Brink Group Interior & Art/ Bosch & Fjord Contractor/ Courtys 43 International Criminal Court/ The Hague/ Netherlands In 2010, Schmidt Hammer Lassen Architects won the prestigious architectural design competition for the new permanent premises of the ICC with an experienced interdisciplinary team of consultants. The design was selected for its understanding of the concept of transparency. The design also shows how democratic values upon which the Danish tradition for architecture rests, reflect in an international institution that is subject to some of the strictest security requirements in the world. Safety and openness In the design approach it has been paramount that the security measures, as much as possible, are an integrated part of the design. The public has easy and open access to the main entrance and the design of the landscape surrounding the building achieves a highly secure environment without the appearance of barbwire and high fences. The landscape The new ICC headquarters is located between the edge of the Hague city and the Meijendel Dune Landscape, which is a protected Natura 2000 area. One of the primary and most important aims of landscape architects SLA’s concept is to ‘reunite’ the site with this dune landscape. The primary idea has been to locate the complex as a cut in the landscape, establishing an interior that relates to the international collectivity of the ICC, and an exterior that entrenches the ICC to the local Dutch landscape and opens it to the public. Sustainability The new headquarters for the ICC is targeting a BREEAM Excellent ”In our design, we are aware of how important it is certification. The complex is part of the local water-win area. Therefore strict local regulations applied for materials, their possible leaching and for this building to express the values of the ICC. To work during the construction period. Several environmental sustainability the victims, to their families and to the world, the measurements have been implemented into the design such as: a heatICC premises must communicate and cold storage, which is the largest of its kind in the Netherlands, green roofs, water-saving taps and toilets, automatic daylight control of luminaires respect, trust and hope.” for all lighting in offices and biological cleaning of the mirror pond. Bjarne Hammer, senior partner 44 International Criminal Court/ 45 The library/ A new generation of public buildings Public Library of the Year Award/ 2016 In 2016, the visionary hybrid library project, Dokk1 in Aarhus, Denmark, was announced winner of the Public Library of the Year Award at a prestigious ceremony during the International Federation of Library Associations and Institutions (IFLA) congress in Columbus, Ohio. The international panel of judges recognised Dokk1 as a true library of the future, that embraces new digital developments, user demands, local culture, and a desire to accommodate diverse population groups within an open and functional architectural expression. The Dokk1 project also scooped an A+ Popular Choice Award in 2016 in the Library category. The event organized by Architizer brought together an eclectic mix of architects and designers from around the globe. 46 DOKK1/ Aarhus/ Denmark/ Space for change DOKK1/ Aarhus/ Denmark/ Space for change/ New public library/ Architect/ Schmidt Hammer Lassen Architects Client/ Aarhus Municipality Client Partner/ Realdania Area/ 35,600 m² Competition/ 2009, first prize in an international competition Engineer/ Alectia Rådgivende Ingeniører Landscaping/ Arkitekt Kristine Jensens Tegnestue Client Consultant/ Rambøll Danmark Other consultants/ Bahn arkitekter (accessibility) 47 “Dokk1 is not simply a building. It is a place for exchanging knowledge and opportunities and a multicultural meeting point that will change people’s perception of the entire city“ The new library has already become a new vibrant hub and a connecting “hinge” that opens up to new experiences in the city of Aarhus. Kim Holst Jensen, senior partner The two open levels of the library are connected by the media ramp, which consists of five platforms dedicated to numerous activities: exhibitions, gaming, interactive workshops, reading and events. Combined with the literature and media sections, the media ramp offers a meandering path of activity through the building leading up to the children’s area on the top floor. A covered urban space The principal idea behind Dokk1 is a transparent covered urban space, designed as a polygonal slice that hovers above a glazed building resting on a podium with large sculptural stairs. The stairs fan out to street level and the new harbour promenade surrounding the building. The glass building is designed as an open urban space with 360-degree views of the water, harbour, forest and city. The building has no clear front or back, which is emphasised by the multiedged top slice that creates the impression of rotation and movement. The facade is made of expanded metal, the scale of the city and harbour is reflected in the design, which twists, breaks and turns. The concept of the façade design is an interaction with the height of the surrounding DOKK1/ buildings and the scale of the port with reference to large elements, such Aarhus/ Denmark/ as cranes and ships. Dokk1 opened its doors to the public in 2015. Situated by the historic harbour front of Aarhus Sustainability the largest public library in Scandinavia today represents a new generation of modern, hybrid From the earliest stage, sustainability has been an important integrated libraries. part of developing the project, and the building meets the requirements of the Danish 2015 energy classification. Elements such as seawater Democratic, open and diverse cooling, effective shielding effects and the 3,000 m2 integrated roof solar The 30,000 square metre building is part of the Urban Mediaspace project, and houses the new library, a cells reduces energy consumption considerably. Also light fittings, LED citizen service centre, automatic parking for 1,000 cars and new harbour-side public squares. New cycle lamps, motion and daylight sensors as well as solar panel arrays reduces paths run through the scheme that includes over 450 bicycle parking spaces, and the new light railway dependency on conventional energy sources. will run with a station at Dokk1. 48 Schmidt Hammer Lassen Architects have extensive The Libary/ driver of social cohesion In social sciences, public spaces such as libraries, city halls and culture experience with library design. The most renowned of centres are defined to be cornerstones of the democratic society. These these being the extension to the Royal Library in Coplaces enable encounters and active citizenship of society. This makes penhagen, Denmark, the RIBA award-winning Univerthe public building an important facilitator for social cohesion of society, sity of Aberdeen New Library in Scotland and Dokk1 and architecture is a driving part of this. in Aarhus, Denmark. In 2018 a new central library in User involvement/ Christchurch, New Zealand, will open, and in 2020 the Schmidt Hammer Lassen and the City of Aarhus received a Best Collabonew Central Library in Shanghai, China. ration Award in 2012 for the extensive cooperation in creating the largest public library in Scandinavia, DOKK1. The Best Collaboration Award awards the best examples of collaboration between partners from the creative industries sector and local governments in the North Sea Region of the European Union. The jury selected the DOKK1 project team due to the broad and intensive collaboration process between the municipality, the architects, the citizens and future users. The philosophy behind the user involvement is that an active library will only come to life by actively involving the people who are going to use it. Therefore, citizens of Aarhus and the future staff of the library has been engaged in the design process throughout the whole process. Halifax Central Library awarded/ The 14,500 m2 Halifax Central Library is the most significant public building to be built in Halifax in a generation, and represents the diverse communities, talents, and creativity of the residents of Halifax throughout the municipality and present this to the world. The library is sited in a prominent position in downtown Halifax. I n 2016, The Halifax Central Library was awarded a Governor General’s Medal for its outstanding new civic building design, created by Schmidt Hammer Lassen Architects and local studio Fowler Bauld & Mitchell. The Governor General’s Medal in Architecture awarded by the Royal Architectural Institute of Canada (RAIC) and the Canada Council for the Arts celebrates outstanding architectural design in Canada. Halifax New Public Library/ Halifax/ Canada 49 Malmö Live/ Malmö/ Sweden/ A city in the city Architect/ Schmidt Hammer Lassen Architects Client/Skanska Sverige AB Area/54,000 m2 concert, congress and hotel Competition/2010, international property development competition construction 2010 2015 Landscape architect/ SLA Contractor/ Skanska Sverige AB Other collaborators/ Akustikon 50 The Malmö Live complex in Southern Sweden, was awarded a prestigious 1st prize in the Mixed-use Completed Buildings category at a ceremony during the World Architectural Festival 2016 in Berlin. The Jury praised the project as a public building in the best sense of the word: open to everyone, inclusive and very democratic: “It’s a real piece of the city and an important catalyst of urban regeneration” Malmö Live/ Malmö/ Sweden/ A city in the city In 2015 the new 54,000 square metres large concert, congress and hotel complex situated on like separate elements – like a small town. Here, the lobby becomes the Universitetsholmen in Malmö was completed. The building consists of a composition of cubic volumes street that runs through the whole ground floor plan and ties everything that are mutually twisted and given different sizes to meet the directions and building heights of the together. Like the medieval cities, with curved and narrow streets organised surrounding city. The façades are designed with a homogeneous expression to make the composition around plazas and squares, the lobby is designed to form small gathering appear as one architectonic sculpture. places and recesses where it is possible to stop, sit and enjoy the view to the canal and the park. The ground floor is open to the public. The main entrance is found at the northern part of the building, with a classic loggia-motif facing the plaza in front. The different functions in the building are organised 51 “The main idea of Malmö Live has been to create ‘a city in the city’. An example is the part of the building that faces the park and the canal that is shaped more openly and organic, and gives the people from Open and accessible the city the possibility to stroll through the building The new cultural centre becomes an open, expressive and dynamic if they are going to a concert, a conference, to the building that is manifold in both its activities and its architecture. The café or just want to make a shortcut. We wanted point of departure for the building design is the modern Scandinavian architectural tradition with the clear functional organisation and the the place to be vibrant, accessible, and inviting – accessible and open ground floor lay-out. The building becomes no doubt this approach will have great impact on the focal point and a landmark for Malmö – a place where the spirit the future life to be unfolded around and inside the of the city, the diversity and the intimacy is given an architectonic expression. buildings.” Kristian Ahlmark, senior partner Sustainability profile Malmö Live is a sustainable, green project. The intention is to develop the area with as little environmental impact as possible, for example by reducing energy consumption and using local energy sources such as geothermal heating, solar energy and wind power. Close proximity to City Tunnel and Central Station makes taking public transport easy. Green roofs absorb water, slow up runoff and promote biodiversity. Solar cells meet some of the building’s energy requirements. Food waste is collected and turned into biogas, and there are nesting boxes for kestrels on the roofs to help this bird of prey to live in a city environment. Malmö Live will be certified according to the international Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED) standard aiming for the highest level platinum in the assessment, which looks at factors like materials, indoor environment, design, and water use. The building also meets the category A standard of the Miljöbyggprogram Syd Green Construction Programme. 52 Green Valley/ Shanghai/ China/ Transformation as driver Lead design architect/Schmidt Hammer Lassen Architects Local architect/ECADI /East China Architecture and Design Institute Client/Shanghai EXPO Construction Development Co. Ltd. Area/50,000 m² Competition/2012, 1st prize in invited international competition Status/Construction period 2013 – 2015 53 Green Valley/ Shanghai/ China/ The Green Valley project is located on the former 2010 Shanghai World Expo site immediately next to the iconic Chinese pavilion. The Green Valley development is part of the new central urban development of Shanghai, integrating new sustainable solutions in both the urban design and the individual buildings on the site. Green Valley is just one of several major projects along Shanghai‘s historical Huangpu River waterfront being designed by Schmidt Hammer Lassen. All the projects relate to the redevelopment of the former industrial areas along the riverfront, and build on the studio’s track record in regenerating a number of prominent waterfront sites in major cities throughout Scandinavia. Besides Green Valley, our studio is involved in the Shanghai Dream Center development, a former cement factory being converted into Shanghai‘s new waterfront cultural and creative hub. ”Despite the monumental scale of the site, the Schmidt Hammer Lassen also won the prestigous competition to project relates to the human scale in the public design the new 125,000-square-metre city Library of Shanghai. The main library volume floats above two pavilions that will house a 1200spaces, giving a diverse, vibrant and inclusive seat performance venue, exhibition and event space and a dedicated community.” children’s library. They will all open up towards a series of landscaped courtyards and gardens. Chris Hardie, partner 54 All rights in this COP is reserved by Schmidt Hammer Lassen Architects Contact/ Njalsgade 17A Pakhus 2 2300 Copenhagen S. Denmark T +45 86 20 19 00 info@shl.dk www.shl.dk Graphic design/ Schmidt Hammer Lassen Architects Photos/ Hufton + Crow Thomas Damgaard Jensen Adam Mørk Anders Back Daniel Greniman Jeppe Carlsen Ricky Molloy Schmidt Hammer Lassen Architects Global Compact/CSR/contact point/ Trine Steffenauer/trs@shl.dk We support/ Schmidt Hammer Lassen Architects hereby states that we operate in accordance with The UN Global Compact’s ten principles in the areas of human rights, labour, the environment and anti-corruption. We state that our actions comply with Danish national legislation and related international conventions. This COP ARoS/Aarhus/Denmark reports on the continued commitment and describes actions taken within all four areas. 55
