CSR 2017 REPORT www.amplexor.com CONTENT Message from CEO 01 Mission & Vision 02 Worldwide 03 Materiality 04 Sustainability Model 05 Manage our Footprint 06 Actions 07 Results 08 Engage Our People 09 Actions 10 Results 11 Economic Value Creation 12 Action 13 Results 14 Contribution to Society 15 Action 16 Results 17 Sustainable 18 Development Goals International 19 Recognition INTRODUCTION Message from CEO Mark Evenepoel 2016 has been an important year for AMPLEXOR This report presents some of the initiatives we International. An Integrated Management have implemented according to the Global System was implemented throughout the group Compact areas. Besides kicking off several harmonizing processes. In this sense, the initiatives, we implemented a series of Corporate Social Responsibility approach was indicators that allow us to control and monitor fully revised and a new methodology was our performance concerning sustainable considered to ensure the group pays particular development. We are happy to report on the attention to the impact of its activities evolution of the last three years, as well as considering the four main themes of the United presenting the new actions carried out through Nations Global Compact (UNGC): human rights, 2016-2017. working standards, the environment and the ﬁght against corruption. In a world subject to ever increasing international I am personally committed to supporting competition, placing corporate responsibility is a the Global Compact and overall CSR best core value for our organization and is reﬂected by practices (ISO 26000, Ecovadis Rating), our Sustainability Model (engaging our people, managing our carbon footprint, contributing to acknowledging the important role we play society, and creating economic value).Backed by a in this initiative. Respecting the ten functional organizational structure and an principles of the UNGC and engaging our enhanced portfolio of products and solutions, the stakeholders is very important to us. company continues to transform itself towards continuous improvement. AMPLEXOR International S.A., by embracing the SIGNATURE values of the UNGC & ISO 26000 is not only Mark Evenepoel displaying a responsible attitude, but is also ready to respond to the social, environmental and economic challenges of the world today. 01 Mission & Values Mission Values We help our customers achieve process • Transparency: We believe that transparency is efﬁciency, increase revenue generation, essential to create long lasting relationships, built on trust and information. This is why we share information reduce time-to-market and ensure quality internally and with stakeholders. Transparency for and compliance. AMPLEXOR is deﬁned as openness, communication, knowledge, and responsibility. Our turnkey solutions support core • Innovation: We believe innovation is the driver for industry processes and include software change in today’s competitive world. Being open to change, improving continuously, and reinventing technology, consulting, system yourself on a regular basis is a must in becoming integration, and language & content market leader. management services. • Integrity: We shall always work honestly, fairly, ethically, and in compliance with legal regulations. We will consistently treat all of our stakeholders with the We provide state-of-the-art solutions in respect and discreteness they deserve. the ﬁelds of aerospace, defence & • Quality: We will always aim for excellence in all of our transport, energy, ﬁnance, life sciences, work, and seek to effectively maintain our quality manufacturing and the public sector. systems. We will keep optimizing our products and services whilst helping our clients and business partners develop. • Diversity: We believe that the differences in gender, age, background and knowledge are very valuable assets; therefore, we will work towards inclusion and diversity. • Accountability: We will always account for our activities, accept our responsibility for our actions and disclose results in a transparent manner. 02 World Wide Augsburg Lyon Bagnols-sur-Cèze Lorient Berlin Madrid Bertrange Minneapolis (MN) Brest Montigny-le-Bretonneux Broom eld (CO) Montréal Bucharest Nantes Budapest Newton (MA) Buenos Aires Novo mesto Cambridge Paris Chennai Rīga Cherbourg Octeville Singapore Cluj-Napoca Shanghai Düsseldorf Sibiu Eindhoven Suzhou Gent Hong Kong Kraków Toulouse Kreuzlingen Vitoria-Gasteiz Leuven Zagreb Lisboa Zürich 03 01 Materiality Analysis Engaging our Stakeholders The Stakeholder Engagement 2016 • Clients Project reﬂects the results of the inputs of • Employees, Managers & Work Councils our main stakeholders towards speciﬁc • Shareholders material issues for our company. In this • Suppliers sense the issues that fall on the top right • Government quadrant (most important, most relevant) • Optional Standards will be implemented into the strategy for • Competitors/Industry Associations next year. Council After a brainstorming session between Quality Management, Information Security We have identiﬁed the following material Manager & CEO the following stakeholder topics which stakeholders were asked to groups were identiﬁed: prioritize High Importance for both Customer Satisfaction Communication Proﬁtability Workplace Wellbeing 04 Coming together is the beginning, keeping together is progress, working together is sucess. Energy consumption Health & Safety Corruption & Bribery Intercompany Sharing: Amplexor Shares CO2 emissions Discrimination & Anticompetitive Practices Knowledge, Amplexor Harrasment Introduces, Amplexor Water management Respect of Intelectual World Days. Working Conditions Property Rights Waste management Commuity Volunteering: Social Dialogue Consumer/Client data Amplexor Eployee Promotion of sustainable protection & Volunteer. consumption Training & Career con dentiality Management 05 02 Manage our Footprint Policies CSR Policy, Health and Safety Policy, Purchasing Policy, Work Environment policy which assure mentioning and disclosure of the following topics: Energy consumption CO2 emissions Water management Waste management Promotion of sustainable consumption UNGC Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally-friendly technologies. Ecovadis Environment Supply Chain 06 Actions Energy Consumption CO2 Emissions Monitor Electric Consumption. Monitor CO2 emissions from plane travelling & cost. Compared to Distribute Online Newsletter with turnover. energy consumption best practices. Monitor CO2 emission from Replacement of obsolete company cars, through fuel credit equipment with Energy Star rated cards and / or fuel consumption and enabled active power saving receipts. management capabilities. Promote teleconferencing or Order AMPLEXOR stickers to videoconferencing over Business reminder all employees to turn Off Travelling à Travel Policy. all devices, lighting and air conditioning when leaving the Strengthen: different tool for building. videoconferencing Maria Santos. Ofﬁce rule to unplug equipment that drains energy when not in use, Water Management especially before weekends (i.e. cell phone chargers, fans, Distribute Newsletter with water coffeemakers, desktop printers, consumption best practices. radios, etc.). Install water consumption controls in taps where possible. Waste Management Distribute Newsletter with waste recycling best practices and post it Sustainable Procurement next to recycle bins. Include in the criteria for selection Implement recycling bins in all of suppliers and partners: entities (kitchen & workplace) with In line with our Code of Conduct clearly labeled recycling stations. High quality products/services Environmentally efﬁcient Implement recycle bins for toners Locally based & recycling IT equipment in all Compliance to Health and safety entities. measures Reliability Double-sided printing and Black & ISO certiﬁcation White automatic conﬁguration. Risk analysis for strategic Promote the use of non-plastic purchasing mugs and cups. Limit the use of paper and printing. Control the amount of Paper purchased. 07 Results Electricity Consumption CO2 Emissions 1849776.75 KW 359238 KG Water Management Recycling Bins Awareness Program to 100 % Recycling Bins be scheduled Sustainable Procurement Printing 20% # Printing % of procurement which has gone through: -CSR assessment or audit deployment of sustainable procurement Deployment will be actions done in September 2017 66% % of suppliers that include clauses on environmental, labor, human rights, and ethical requirements 08 03 Engage our People Policies CSR Policy, Health and Safety Policy, Human Rights Policy, Work Environment policy which assure mentioning and disclosure of the following topics: Health & Safety Discrimination & Harrasment -Working Conditions -Social Dialogue -Training & Career Management UNGC Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights, and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Ecovadis Social Ethics 09 Actions Health & Safety Discrimination & Harrasment Risk Assessment of Health and Safety -labour risks. During recruitment phase. not required to specify Provision of protective equipment gender/race/religion/age for to all impacted employees, if recruitment selection. applicable. Auditing of internal controls to Formal targets to reduce prevent discrimination and/or occupational injury and illness harassment . rates à Objectives 2017 Whistle-blower procedure on Joint labour management health discrimination and harassment and safety committee in operation. issues. Training / Newsletter to all Job Grid & Compensation Plans. employees on health and safety risks and good working practices. Mandatory health check-up for all Social Dialogue employees . Company public commitment to promote and facilitate structured Regular inspection or audit to labour relations. ensure safety of equipment/facility. Local employee representatives Working Conditions bodies for more than 75% of employees. Interactive communication session with employees with regards to working conditions. Training & Career Management Company-wide promotion of employees initiatives regarding Transparent recruitment process working conditions. (communicated clearly and formally to all candidates). Ofﬁcial measures to promote work and life balance: ﬂexible schedule, Regular assessment (at least once family friendly company. a year) of individual performance. Additional rest periods or Setting of Individual development vacations, above legal and career plan for all employees. requirements: Christmas, Seniority. Ofﬁcial measures promoting career mobility. Company speciﬁc health care program for employees. Policy to give priority to internal recruitment. Bonus scheme for more than 70% of employees. Provision of skills development Transparency (process and criteria training. communicated to all employees) on remuneration system: Local Ofﬁcial measures to anticipate or handbook. reduce layoffs and associated negative impacts (e.g. ﬁnancial Code of conduct on personal usage compensation, outplacement of IT by employees & security of service). 10 monitoring devices. Results Health & Safety Workforce 100% 43% % of all operational sites for which an % of the total workforce across all employee health & safety risk assessment has locations represented in: been conducted (please specify) formal joint management. formal collective agreements concerning % Risk Methodology + Health and Safety working conditions. Policy formally-elected employee representatives Training & Career Human Rights Violations 100% Zero % of the total workforce across all locations who: received regular performance and career development reviews. received careeror skills-related training. -received training on preventing discrimination and human rights violations Hours Worked Injuries & Lost time 3807360 1 Injury & 11 Lost Days 0.02 Lost time Injury Woman in Top Management Disability 41% XXX% 11 04 Economic Value Creation Policies CSR Policy, Human Rights Policy, Work Environment policy, Approval and Signing Policy, Supplier certiﬁcation Process, which assure mentioning and disclosure of the following topics: Corruption & Bribery Anticompetitive Practices Respect of Intelectual Property Rights Consumer/Client data protection & conﬁdentiality UNGC Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Ecovadis Ethics 12 Actions Corruption & Bribery Respect Intellectual & Signature acknowledgement of Property Rights anti-corruption policy required for Conducting investigations on third all concerned employees. parties patents/ trademarks at initial stages of R&D. Speciﬁc approval procedure for sensitive transactions (e.g. gifts, Conducting investigations on third travel). parties patents/ trademarks at all stages of product development. Speciﬁc procedures for retaining and using third-party Systematic intellectual property intermediaries (i.e. due diligence, audit to prevent/ identify potential certiﬁcations). infringements. Structured mechanisms to deal Measures to prevent counterfeiting with policy violations (e.g. potential of other products. sanctions). Secure communication channel for employees to seek advice or voice Consumer/Client data concerns (e.g. hotline, whistle protection & conﬁdentiality blowing procedure) Measures to limit types of data collected and stored. Measures to protect Anticompetitive Practices customer/client data from unauthorized access or disclosure. Acknowledgement of anticompetitive practices policy Measures to consult required for all concerned customers/clients on employees. personal/conﬁdential data. Structured mechanisms to deal Internal data protection audits with policy violations i.e. potential Web-based or in-person training sanctions. program on data protection and conﬁdentiality. Secure communication channel for employees to seek advice or voice Process to safely destroy concerns (e.g. hotline, whistle conﬁdential data of blowing procedure) client/customers. 13 Results Training in business ethics Audits to business ethics Deployment will be done in Deployment will be done in September 2017 September 2017 Security Management System Anticorruption Management ISO 27001 Deployment will be done in Deployment will be done in September 2017 September 2017 Incidents Related to Ethics Zero 14 05 Contribution to Society Policies CSR Policy: Intercompany Sharing: Amplexor Shares Knowledge, Amplexor Introduces, Amplexor World Days. Commuity Volunteering: Amplexor Eployee Volunteer. UNGC Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights, and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Ecovadis Social Ethics 15 Actions Intercompany Sharing Community Volunteering “AMPLEXOR Shares Knowledge” Program: Take advantage of travels “AMPLEXOR Employee Volunteer” done for other business purposes Program – AMPLEXOR supports and schedule training sessions in and allows employees to enroll in the entities to share knowledge volunteering programs of previous with all colleagues and / or selected eligible non-proﬁts concrete skills; organization(s) 5 days per year. The contribution of the company is “AMPLEXOR Introduces” Program: the number of extra days in the Create short videos of each employee’s vacations plan and the department: presenting them and contribution of the employee is the providing a general vision of what volunteering. they do. This provides more personal information, not only to new joiners, but to everybody at AMPLEXOR. Functional organizations located World Wide tends to detach from personal relations. “AMPLEXOR World Days” Program: Establish AMPLEXORs World Days calendar adherence, determining action to be carried out. For company events, donations, volunteer programs & other actions carried out we have estableished the CSR Event template to ensure our efforts are impactful and aligned! DWS-Space-Corporate Social Responsibility 16 Results World days Initiative Employees Engaged Deployment will be done in September 2017 XX ? Volunteering Programs Equipment Donated 7 114 Casa da Criança Computer's 14 Books 100 Forestation> Planting in colleges Probono Translation Awareness Health Challenges: Regular visits and support to Cancer Institutes Support to AIDS affected people Participation in Blood Donation Camps Environment cleanliness and Climate change support 17 We are addresing global challenges with our actions! Our areas of action are aligned with the Millenium Development Goals, speciﬁcally: 3. Good Health & Wellbeing 4. Quality Education 5. Gender Equality 8. Decent Work and Economic Growth 93 Industry Inovation & Infrastructure 10. Reduced Inequialities 12. Responsible Consumption and Production 18 Internationally Recognized by EcoVadis After requests for assessment by several of our clients under ECOVADIS, AMPLEXOR obtained a Bronze Certi cate issued by ECOVADIS.ECOVADIS is a Supplier assessment platform which assesses our efforts and actions on Corporate Social Responsibility criteria. The main areas of assessment are related to: -Environment, -Labour Practices, -Sustainable Procurement and -Fair Business Practices. UNGC Our company has been paying particular attention to the way in which its activities conform to the four main themes of the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC): namely, human rights, working standards, the environment, and the ght against corruption. It is very important to us to respect the ten principles of the UNGC and to secure our stakeholders’ backing. ISO ISO 9001: 2015Quality Management Systems EN 9100: 2009 Aviation, Space & Defense ISO 17100: 2015 Language Service Providers ISO 13485: 2003 Medical Devices ISO 26000: 2015 Social Responsibility 19 www.amplexor.com
