RAMADA HOTEL & SUITES AJMAN P.O. Box 31631 Sheikh Khalifa Bin Zayed Street, Ajman, United Arab Emirates 2016 Communication on Progress (COP) on the United Nations Global Compact Time Period: July 2016 till June 2017 Page 1 of 21 Contents 03 Introduction * About Ramada Hotel & Suites Ajman * Sustainability at Ramada Hotel & Suites Ajman 04 Letter from the Cluster General Manager 05 Human Rights 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights 2 Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses 08 Labor 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; 4 The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; 5 The effective abolition of child labour; and 6 The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation 12 Environment 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; 8 Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; 9 Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. 19 Anti-Corruption 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Page 2 of 21 Introduction About Ramada Hotel & Suites Ajman Ramada Hotel and Suites Ajman is a premier accommodation located on Sheikh Khalifa Bin Zayed Street, in the centre of the main city of Ajman. The hotel provides easy access to the UAE’s main airports, commercial centres and cultural attractions. With its spacious and stylish 388 rooms, Ramada Hotel and Suites Ajman caters to both business and leisure travellers, whether on short trips or long-term stays. The hotel offers modern comforts matched with unparalleled service. Guests can enjoy sumptuous food selection at Orchid Restaurant, R Cafe and the 24-hour room service, as well as the hotel’s first-rate facilities including a gym, indoor swimming pool, spa, and free access to its exclusive beach club. Sustainability at Ramada Hotel & Suites Ajman Ramada Hotel & Suites Ajman has been on the forefront of sustainability and CSR innovation for years, continuing to develop and implement initiatives that create positive experiences for associates, guests, and the surrounding community and environment. The property is known for its remarkable ground-breaking environment initiatives like the launch of Zero Landfill Project in 2012 -a waste management system of the property. Four years after the launch of the project, with the help of recycling and an in-house composter machine, the hotel was able to reduce its landfill waste disposal by 90% and divert more than a million kilogram of waste. The property improved more on its current waste management efficiency through installing new WasteStation dewaterer and macerator machine. With the new machine, it reduces the process of converting the waste into fertilisers from 24 hours to 12 hours, it simplify the process and cut down the labour cost. Ramada Hotel & Suites Ajman pioneered an Urban Farming project, where the property converted 430 square meters of its vast parking space to an urban farm, growing seasonal vegetables and crops, which can be of use in the hotel’s kitchen. The property also regularly teams up with various organisations on different sustainable projects including Sealed Air’s “Soap for Hope”, and Emirates Environmental Group’s “Your Can for Tree” campaigns, among others. All year-round, the team does their share for sustainable tourism through regular beach clean-ups and organising activities for Earth Hour, Earth Day, World Environment Day. Through their incessant efforts, the hotel looks ahead to well-preserved environment for the future generations. Page 3 of 21 Letter from the Cluster General Manager Ramada Hotel & Suites Ajman places high value on its commitment to the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and AntiCorruption. The property is actively involved in altruistic sustainable activities since 2011. We are honoured to be part of the United Nations Global Compact since July 2016. Our management has always ensured the welfare of our work force and has been actively involved in various sustainable initiatives and charitable projects over the years. Through our membership, we seek to enrich our current business practices, and improve our existing CSR programmes. We will strive to become responsible role models in our field and in the community, and ultimately inspire our industry peers to do their share for a socially responsible global economy. In this first annual Communication on Progress of Ramada Hotel & Suites Ajman, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We would like to highlight and share our commitment and achievements during the 2016/17. We aim to continuously support the United Nations Global Compact’s Ten Principles in its worldwide activities in the coming more years. Yours sincerely, Iftikhar Hamdani Cluster General Manager Page 4 of 21 Human Rights Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; Principle 2 Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses Assessment & Policy Ramada Hotel & Suites Ajman is committed to ensure a healthy environment without discrimination and protects all its employees, guests and business partners from any abuses. The hotel’s goal is to display fairness and integrity at all times. Ramada Hotel & Suites Ajman implemented a comprehensive Anti-Discrimination Policy, trainings and information that highlights on human rights. We believe that the persistence of human rights violations clearly demonstrates the need to focus more attention on preventive actions. To protect human rights is to ensure that employees, guests and business partners receive some degree of decent, humane treatment. Inclusion under Anti-Discrimination Policy set-forth by Ramada Hotel & Suites Ajman: · We are committed to ensure a healthy environment without discrimination and harassment in our hotel. · We treat all external and internal guests with dignity, courtesy and respect. · We don’t promote Racial, Sexual, Disability and age discrimination in our hotel. · We promote appropriate standards of conduct at all the times. · We will not endure discrimination and will treat all the complaints in a sensitive, fair, timely and confidential manner. · Provides awareness to all associates to know their rights and responsibilities in the hotel. · Disciplinary action will be taken against any associates who breach the policy. · Well define the outcomes (such as apology, transfer or dismissal) of the incidents. Page 5 of 21 Additionally, to demonstrate our commitment in this area, Ramada Hotel & Suites Ajman: · Respect our employees’ rights to voluntary freedom of expression, join of committee/association. · Provide a safe and healthy environment · Provide an equally remuneration as per its criterion and trainings to outgrow their livings and careers For our business partners, we conduct a Preliminary Supplier’s Assessment & Evaluation Form beforehand partnering to them where states about the supplier's facility to have procedures in-placed to ensure their workplace is free of physical abuse, physical contact with the intent to injure or intimidate, and disciplinary measures that cause physical discomfort. Ramada Hotel & Suites, Ajman recognizes the importance of providing the entire internal and external guests with better Health & Safety. Health & Safety Policy is implemented, whereas: · Prevent accidents and cases of work-related ill health by managing the health and safety risks in the workplace. · Provide clear instructions and information, and adequate training, to ensure associates are competent to do their work. · Engage and consult with employees on day-to-day health and safety conditions and issues. · Emergency procedures – evacuation in case of fire or other significant incident. · Maintain safe and healthy working conditions, provide and maintain plant, equipment and machinery, and ensure safe storage/use of substances. · Toilets, washing facilities and drinking water provided. · System in place for routine inspections and testing of equipment and machinery and for ensuring that action is promptly taken to address any defects. · Provide Health and Safety law poster are displayed, First-aid box, Incident book at the appropriate locations, · To ensure all employees are competent to do their tasks, and to give them adequate training; to maintain safe and healthy working conditions. All Managers at Ramada Hotel & Suites, Ajman will be responsible for the Health & Safety with a safe work place for the Associates: reporting the injuries and incidents; safety equipment and proper practices; to participate in the safety improvement activities. Implementation Ramada Hotel & Suites Ajman had taken the following measures to prevent human rights violations in its work locations: · A Training Manager is hired to conduct regular trainings and awareness about discrimination & human rights as well as providing trainings on safety and healthy environment. · Human Resources Department is well-versed in each of the human resources disciplines and conducts fair judgment in any misconduct transpire and with unfair treatment issues. · All Head of the Departments are conducting their regular briefings where staff can also share their thoughts and opinions. Page 6 of 21 · We developed Employee Handbook that tackles not only hotel’s information but also include Code of Conduct brief · Allocated Disabled Rooms for disabled guest as their right to be treated fairly with the other guests. · Endorsed the United Nations Global Compact to our team in order for them to understand all about the programme on August 29, 2016 and to be aware of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. · Hired different nationalities to avoid Racial, Sexual, Disability and age discrimination. · Supported with Action Care, Al Ihsan Charity Association, Human Appeal International, Elderly Home Ajman · Offered internships for the school students, locally and internationally. · Mohammed Ramzan who suffers a form of dwarfism worked with us as in Engineering Department and now assigned in the guest relations division as doorman since December 2013. Employed him without discrimination on his physical aspect. He brought awareness to all the disability is not a hindrance in achieving goals and being accepted in the community. Measurement of Outcomes As of March 2017, Ramada Hotel & Suites Ajman analysis of workforce as part of the Human Rights advocate of the property is as follows: Employees 2016 (as of Dec. 2016) Men Women Employed 237 47 Internship 09 05 Total No. of Employees 247 76 Nationality count as of 24 December 2016 At Ramada Hotel & Suites Ajman, we ensure that both Men and Women are equally treated with fair work. About 17% of Women are employed in Ramada Hotel & Suites Ajman giving the same opportunity to work in their field of expertise since December 2016 record. We welcome internships for school students, locally and internationally. As of December 2016, Ramada Hotel & Suites Ajman had 14 internship students. At Ramada Hotel & Suites Ajman, there is no human right violation has been reported till date. Page 7 of 21 Labor Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Principle 4 The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5 The effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6 The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Assessment & Policy To achieve excellence in the human resources and leadership practices, Ramada Hotel & Suites Ajman implemented an Employment Policy. This policy is in place to operate a fair and consistent approach to all associates which can improve their career development. Inclusion under Employment Policy set-forth by Ramada Hotel & Suites Ajman: · This policy and intent of the hotel is to provide equal employment opportunity for all persons regardless of sex, race, color, religion, national origin, marital status, gender identity, disability and age. · Our hotel also seeks to do business with organizations that encourage equal employment opportunity. · To meet organizational, functional, personal and social objectives · Provides our associates a greater job satisfaction, more professional, expressive development which will add more value in the quality of life · We focus on higher levels of quality, efficiency, productivity and potentiality of our associates · We conduct Employment without excluding any ethnicity, gender, religion, trends political or sexual in compliance with the laws governing the country Page 8 of 21 · Encourage professional development and encourage environmental, cultural and social responsibility Additionally, Ramada Hotel & Suites Ajman eliminates all forms of forced and compulsory labour, child labour Implementation Ramada Hotel & Suites Ajman intends to ensure to be a socially responsible employer. · We developed Employee Handbook that tackles all the information to assist an employee. The Employee Handbook covers: v Information about the company v Terms of Employment (Employment Contract, Probation Period, Point of Hire, Payment of Salaries, Hours of Work, Overtime, Annual Leave & Holidays, Emergency Leave, Medical, Sick Leave, Medical Insurance, End of Service Gratuity, Termination of Employment, Grounds for Termination, Service Certificate) v Health & Safety Procedures (Lifting Techniques, Hygiene Standards, Handling Chemicals, Use of Machinery, Reporting Accidents, First Aid) v Emergency Procedures in case of Fire v Code of Conduct v Disciplinary & Grievance Procedures v Bribery & Corruption v Discrimination & Harassment v Socio-Cultural v Environmental Commitment v Human Trafficking & Child Exploitation / Employee Exploitation & Abuse · We formed Committee that will provide platform to organize employee engagement programme in order to enhance the staff’s interaction and fortify good relationship to staff & management of Ramada Hotel & Suites Ajman. This Committee organizes sports activities, annual staff party, environmental activities, community participation, etc. Hotel’s Committee that designate leadership task for each responsible areas are: v Energy Saving Committee v Charity Committee v Waste Management Committee v Green Committee v Food Cost Committee v Fire & Safety Committee v Revenue Committee v Wyndham Rewards Committee v Expense/Cost Committee v Event Committee v Sorts Committee · A Training Manager is hired to conduct regular trainings and awareness about discrimination & human rights as well as providing trainings on safety and healthy environment. · Empowering labour with recognition for the staff in order for them to be felt appreciated. Such recognition are: v Star of the Month (Front & Back of the House): Given monthly to the selected employee. The selected employee will receive a certificate and gift from the hotel. Page 9 of 21 v Supervisor of the Quarter: Given quarterly to the selected employee. The selected employee will receive a certificate and gift from the hotel. v Star of the Year (Front & Back of the House) and Supervisor of the Year: Given every year to the selected employee/s. The selected employee/s will receive a certificate and gift from the hotel. v Other awards/recognitions were given to the selected employee/s for exceptional contribution towards the hotel. Recognition is given every Monthly Staff Gathering. · We allowed employee to engage in community training participation to enhance and develop their social skills. Measurement of Outcomes Grievance: No grievances were reported by any of the employees. Employee Engagement Activities were organized as listed below: Sn Date Employee Engagement Activities 1 July 09, 2016 Ramada Summer Sports Day 2 Nov. 06-07, 2016 Inter Hotel's Football, Malaeb Sports 3 April 22, 2017 Beach Sports Day 4 Sept. 11-17, 2016 International Housekeeping Week 5 Sept. 26, 2016 Ramada Hotels, Ajman’s Annual Staff Party 2016 6 Jan. 29, 2017 RPL Cricket at Mala3b Sports Complex 7 Feb. 07-08, 2017 Ajman Hotels Cricket Tournament 8 April 07, 2017 Ride Ajman by Ajman Tourism Development Department 9 April 11-12, 2017 Ajman Hotels Volleyball Tournament at Kempinski Ajman 10 Monthly Monthly Staff Gathering Training & Development: Apart from the departmental trainings conducted by the hotel’s Training Manager, the following trainings were attended by most of the employees to enhance their knowledge. · External Training: “Applications of CSR and Sustainability Practices”, facilitated by Ajman CSR in collaboration with Sweden CSR, at Ajman Saray, November 16-17, 2016 Participant: Nitin Sethi, Training Manager · Internal: “Stress Management”, facilitated by Mr. Zamir Abassi of COTHM Management Consultancy at Majestic Ballroom, February 26, 2017 Participant: Ramada Hotel & Suites Ajman and Ramada Beach Hotel Ajman’s employees Page 10 of 21 Monthly Turn-over Report: On record, we are proud to say that our staff turnover is only 1.36% for year 2016. We believe that the core value of the business is to give appreciation and care to staff. Providing their happiness like organizing sports activities, monthly staff gatherings and empowerment keeps them motivated and driven. Breakdown of Reasons for staff’s leaving: Page 11 of 21 Environment Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Principle 8 Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9 Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Assessment & Policy Ramada Hotel & Suites Ajman is fully committed to environmental sustainability and to minimize negative impacts to the Mother Nature and promotes environmentally friendly culture with our internal and external associates during the hotel operation. Ramada Hotel & Suites Ajman implemented policies to protect our environment. I. Environmental Policy This policy can de deliberately taken to direct and oversee human activities and thereby prevent harmful effects on the biophysical environment and natural resources, as well as to make sure that changes in the environment do not have harmful effects on humans. Inclusion under Environmental Policy set-forth by Ramada Hotel & Suites Ajman: v Comply with all necessary environmental legislation, rules & regulations. v Protect environment and prevent pollution of water, land and air. v Involve community in exemplary environmental activities to minimize wastes and prevent pollution to the environment. Page 12 of 21 v Maximize the use of recyclables and reusable materials and adopt renewable energy sources to promote sustainability. v Conserve natural resources, wildlife and scarce species. v Optimum utilization of resources or reduce wastage cause through consumer returns. v Use environmental friendly chemicals and implement proper waste management system. v Educate or train associates and communicate to the Public about the environmental concerns or issues. v Create a positive environmental culture with the hotel to reduce land fill. v Implement appropriate control measure when environmental hazards are identified. II. Biodiversity, Ecosystem and Landscape Policy Inclusion under Environmental Policy set-forth by Ramada Hotel & Suites Ajman: v Ramada Hotel & Suites Ajman ensures endangered species, products thereof or item stemming from unsustainable practices are not consumed, sold, traded or displayed. v The property ensures that no captive wildlife on property grounds. v The property prohibits use of alien species in garden, landscapes, and other area of operation. III. Procurement Policy Ramada Hotel & Suites Ajman’s procurement department should include identify, select and purchase products (i.e. goods and services) with significantly less adverse environmental and social impacts than alternative competing products wherever it’s applicable. Guidelines for Procurement: v Ramada Hotel & Suites Ajman always encourage dealing with vendor who adapts sustainability as their core business policies. v Biodegradable Material must be used for items like Laundry Suite cover roll, Shirt cover Bags, Trash bin liners, Garbage bags, Take-away bags, etc. v All Promotional Printing Material of the property must be printed on Wood Free, FSC and Recycle paper Material only and also encourage dealing with those printing press that strongly believe and encourage sustainability as their company policies. v Chemical used at Ramada Hotel & Suites Ajman should be eco-friendly, v Vendor for Fruits and Vegetable Vendor must use take back Containers and reuse it on every next delivery. v Amenities used for Guest Room must be certified & approved eco-friendly products by local Municipality or International Third body. v Procurement department must ensure that vendors to use fuel Efficient Vehicle for deliver at Ramada Hotel & suites Ajman and switch off the vehicle while delivering the requested products. v Ramada Hotel & Suites Ajman must encourage having at least 25% purchases from local manufacturer/vendors. Page 13 of 21 IV. Waste Management Plan The Waste Management Plan is to mainly identify the waste streams, determine its method of handling and its final disposition, whether it can be composted, sold to a recycler or taken to a landfill. Every effort will be made to limit, segregate, sort, collect and properly dispose of waste generated within the property. Ramada Hotel and Suites Ajman has established this Plan to assure that waste is segregated based on type and to achieve proper waste management scheme. Implementation Ramada Hotel & Suites Ajman bolsters up green enterprises by implementing the following actions to sustain our environment. · We formed hotel committees who will be responsible in their designated areas in order facilitate in planning activities, help create awareness and support community to preserve our environment. v Waste Management Committee The Waste Management Committee is responsible for the proper waste controlling, segregating, monitoring and transmitting properly the waste produced by the hotel. v Green Committee The Green Committee provides Environmental Activities every month. The said committee will facilitate activities that will create awareness not only for the employees but for the rest of the community. · Calendar of CSR Activities is prepared for 2016 & 2017. This is the hotel’s guide on what we could do and contribute towards environment each month. · Joined Emirates Environmental Group’s “Can Collection Campaign” since May 2016. · Continuously participating in the Sealed Air’s Soap for Hope Campaign. · Continued to spread the cause on sustainable waste management by speaking in different forums and conference and welcoming representatives from other hotels, establishments, schools across the UAE who wish to learn about Ramada Hotel & Suites Ajman’s best green practices. · Continued the acquisition of the Hotel Optimizer. Hotel Optimizer is a cost-effective tool to set proper targets and have a clear idea of the hotel’s resource management performance in terms energy, water and waste and even carbon emissions. · Organized International Roundtable Conference by Future Leaders with topic “Climate Change” on December 2016. The event was represented by 22 nations ages 12 to 16 years. The participating students of the conference are from UAE, Australia, China, Egypt, Fiji, India, Iraq, Jordan, Kazakhstan, Korea, Lebanon, Pakistan, Palestine, Russia, Spain, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Syria, Tunisia, Ukraine and USA. The aim is to have interactive discussions from our future generations and create an unparalleled, candid platform to facilitate fruitful exchange of innovative ideas, challenges and insights that are being carried out by their respective country to help understand the best way forward for the environment. Page 14 of 21 · Ramada Hotel & Suites Ajman improved food waste management efficiency through installing the IMC WasteStation Dewaterer & Macerator Machine on January 2017. WasteStation functions by grinding the food waste into fine particles, which are then fed directly into the built-in dewatering system. The WasteStation then forces out the excess liquid from the macerated waste using a centrifugal action. The resulting solid fraction of the food waste is collected in small, easily managed, lidded bins and the grey water fed directly to drain. The food waste will then be placed into the compost machine which Ramada Ajman had since 2012. The fertilizers are being used in the hotel’s own urban farm. Measurement of Outcomes CSR Activities conducted & participated from July 2016 till June 2017: Sn Date Participation / Event 1 July 03, 2016 Sealed Air’s “Soap for Hope” Campaign collected and handed over 30 kg of discarded soaps 2 August 02, 2016 Emirates Environmental Group’s “Aluminium Can Collection Campaign” collected and handed over 34kgs of used cans 3 October 09, 2016 Worldwide Green Day: Planted 25 new seasonal plants at the hotel’s Agriculture Boxes; Morning Briefing with Head of the Department at the Garden Area of the hotel; 4 October 29, 2016 Emirates Environmental Group’s Can Collection Drive where we collected 59 kg of aluminium used cans 5 December 22, Organized International Roundtable Conference by Future Leaders with 2016 topic “Climate Change” on December 2016. The event was represented by 22 nations ages 12 to 16 years. The aim is to have interactive discussions from our future generations and create an unparalleled, candid platform to facilitate fruitful exchange of innovative ideas, challenges and insights that are being carried out by their respective country to help understand the best way forward for the environment. 6 March 21, 2017 World Planting Day: Organized Essay writing contest for the staff on the importance of tree. Additionally, planted 10 Royal Poinciana or Gulmohar trees in the garden area. 7 March 22, 2017 World Water Day: Organized an “Awareness Talk on the importance of water” by the Chief Cluster Engineer for the entire staff. 8 March 25, 2017 Earth Hour: Switched-off lights at the hotel premises from 08:30pm till 09:30pm 9 April 17, 2017 Swap & Shop by Waste-Charity Committee 10 April 22, 2017 Beach Clean-up Drive at Ajman Private Beach 11 May 30, 2017 Hosted special Iftar for 150 workers in the emirate of Ajman 12 June 05, 2017 World Environment Day: Planted 01 Royal Poinciana or Gulmohar tree in the hotel’s garden area Page 15 of 21 Raising awareness to community about environment: Sn Date Raising Awareness to Community 1 September 08, Urban Farm & Zero Landfill was visited by HOPE Grade 9 Student, Our 2016 Own English HS 2 September 14, Wyndham Hotel Group Global Conference, Mandalay Bay Resort & 2016 Casino in Las Vegas, Nevada. Mr. Iftikhar Hamdani is part of the Green Panel at the Conference. 3 September 28, Mr. Iftikhar Hamdani as one of the speaker in the Ajman CSR Meet-up by 2016 Ajman Chamber with TOPIC: Applications of Sustainability & Social Responsibility @ Ramada Ajman at Fairmont Ajman Hotel. 4 November 11, WE CARE, a non-profit Organization that supports environment visited 2016 and planted tomato plants in the Urban Farm 5 November 15, Middle East Cleaning Technology Week Awards 2016 where Mr. Iftikhar 2016 Hamdani has been selected as one of the speaker in the Waste Management RoundTable “at Opal, Novotel World Trade Centre, Dubai 6 February 13, Ramada Hotel & Suites Ajman participated in the Action Care’s MOVE 2017 Career Fair 2017 at the National Charity School, Sharjah. The Career Fair made a memorable day for over 400 students from underprivileged families in Sharjah to prepare themselves in their future career paths. Ramada Hotel & Suites Ajman team actively shared all sustainability practices of the property to create awareness to students in Grades 11 & 12. 7 February 19, Ocular Field Visit of CUCA -BTEC Travel and Tourism students 2017 th 8 February 22, 9 Annual Exclusive Networking of Hozpitality.com at Jood Palace Hotel 2017 where Mr. Iftikhar Hamdani was part of the Sustainability panel. 9 April 18, 2017 Visit of Ajman Chamber Board Member H.E. Sheikh Sultan Bin Saqar Al Nuaimi 10 April 27, 2017 Visit of Sheikh Mohsin Al Hokair, Sheikh of Tourism in KSA 11 May 15, 2017 Visit of Ajman Tourism Development Department’s new General Manager Mr. Saleh Al Gaziri 12 May 23, 2017 Visit of Al Mazaya Green Saudi Contracting Co Community Participation of Ramada Hotel & Suites Ajman: Sn Date Community Participation 1 October 10, 2016 Supported the “Walk For A Cause Breast Cancer Awareness Campaign” organized by Amina Hospital together with Um Al Moumineen Association and Ajman Municipality at Al Safia Park, Ajman 2 October 16, 2016 Ramada Hotel & Suites Ajman joined hands with the rest of the globe in observing World Food Day, and affirming its commitment to fight hunger through simple yet impactful actions. 3 April 07, 2017 Ajman Tourism Development Department’s “Ride Ajman 2017”. 4 April 14, 2017 Abdul Aziz Bin Humaid Foundation Initiative’s “Paint Run Ajman 2017” – Running for 4km race to promote healthy lifestyle campaign aimed to inspire people to run for good health. 5 May 15, 2017 Participated in the Environmental Awareness Activities by Municipality & Planning Department – Ajman at the Ajman Public Beach. The participants had the chance to learn arts and crafts by creating dolls out of papers, expressing each thought by an art painting piece in a boat and educate the participants on the importance of plastic free day. The art painted boat will be displayed in public area of Ajman. Page 16 of 21 Outstanding Achievements: Sn Date Outstanding Change Achieved nd 1 November 09, Green Globe certified (re-certification on its 2 year) 2016 2 December 12, Hospitality Excellence Awards 2016’s “Hotel of the Year for Green 2016 Initiatives 2016” 3 February 15, Ramada Hotel & Suites Ajman bagged the Gulf Sustainability and CSR 2017 Awards 2016’s “Waste Management Award” 4 March 22, 2017 Wyndham Hotel Group’s “Wyndham Hotel Group EMEA President Award for CSR 2016” for Mr. Iftikhar Hamdani. Awarded at Brussels, Belgium Total Waste Generated in 2016: The property generated 346,098 kg of waste in 2016 with 79.10% of food waste generated. The hotel diverted approx. 760 kilograms of organic waste a day away from the local landfill. The food waste which mostly comes from the hotel’s kitchen is being fed into the dewatering and macerator machine and then to the composter machine that converts the waste into fertilizers in just 12 hours. The produced fertilizers will then be used in the hotel’s 430 sq mtr, Urban Farm, growing seasonal fruits and vegetables for use in the hotel’s kitchen. On the other hand, the paper, plastics and metals are handed over to recyclers; and a very minimal portion which is considered as waste rejects will go to the landfill. Waste Type Quantities Generated in 2016 Weight (kg) Weight (%) Waste Type 2016 2016 1 General Waste 31,463 9.09 2 Food Waste 273,750 79.10 3 Paper Waste 8,475 2.45 4 Cardboard Waste 15,800 4.57 5 Plastic Waste 3,210 0.93 6 Cans/Aluminium Waste 3,955 1.14 7 Cans/Metal Waste 4,472 1.29 8 Glass Waste 459 0.13 9 Tetra Pak Waste 10 Used Cooking Oil Waste 3,116 0.90 11 Yellow Bag Waste 12 Green Waste 13 Ceramic Waste 338 0.10 14 Waste Toiletries 15 Waste Textiles 723 0.21 16 Hazardous Waste 17 Waste Paints 136 0.04 18 Waste Batteries 79 0.02 19 Waste Light Bulbs 122 0.04 Page 17 of 21 20 eWaste (Electrical & Electronics) 21 Waste Furniture 22 Waste Metal (Scrap) 23 Waste Mattresses 24 Construction & Demolition Waste 25 Other Bulky Waste Total 346,098 100.00 Waste Type Quantities Generated in 2016 in kg (Graph): Waste Type Quantities Generated in 2016 in % (Graph): Hotel generated 273,750 kg or 79.10% of food waste in 2016, about 760 kg per day. Page 18 of 21 Anti-Corruption Principle 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery Assessment & Policy Ramada Hotel & Suites Ajman provides guidance on the standards of behavior to which all must adhere and most of these reflect the common sense and good business practices that we all work to in any event and to help identify when something is prohibited so that bribery and corruption is avoided. Ramada Hotel & Suites Ajman has a zero-tolerance policy for bribery & corruption. Inclusion under Bribery & Corruption Policy set-forth by Ramada Hotel & Suites Ajman: · The business prohibits all form of bribery whether they take place directly or through third parties. · The business also prohibits its employees from soliciting, arranging or accepting bribes intended for the employee’s benefit or that of the employee’s family, friends, associates or acquaintances. · The business, its employees or agents should not make direct or indirect contributions to political parties, organization or individuals engaged in politics, as a way of obtaining advantage in business transaction. · The business ensures that charitable contributions and sponsorships are not used as a subterfuge for bribery. · The business prohibit the offer or receipts of gifts, hospitality or expenses whenever they could affect or be perceived to affect the outcome of business transactions and are not reasonable and bona fide. · The business publicly discloses all its political and charitable contributions. · The business makes known its anti-bribery policies to contractors and suppliers. Page 19 of 21 · The business avoids dealing with contractors and suppliers known or reasonably suspected to be paying bribes. It undertake due diligence, as appropriate, in evaluating prospective contractors and suppliers to ensure that they have effective anti-bribery program. For our business partners, we conduct a Preliminary Supplier’s Assessment & Evaluation Form beforehand partnering to them where states about the supplier's facility to have procedures in-placed to ensure their workplace is free of physical abuse, physical contact with the intent to injure or intimidate, and disciplinary measures that cause physical discomfort. Implementation Ramada Hotel & Suites Ajman ensure that internal procedures support the hotel’s anti-corruption commitment, we continually ensure practicing the below measures: · Ramada Hotel & Suites Ajman has an excellent audit system. Internal Audit system sets procedure to periodically carried-out checks in some departments that mostly handle cash and contracts. · As part of the internal communication structure, employees can raise their concern over issues such fraud and conflict of interest, bribery & corruption, kickbacks, unethical business conduct, etc. Human Resources Department is well-versed in each of the human resources disciplines and conducts fair judgment in any misconduct transpire and with unfair treatment issues. · We developed Employee Handbook that tackles not only hotel’s information but also include Code of Conduct brief including Bribery & Corruption, whereas, “Bribery & Corruption” in any forms is strictly prohibited in the organization. It is not allowed to accept gifts, hospitality or expenses whenever, they would affect the outcome of business transaction. · We provided a track record of the “Lost & Found”. Lost & found programme maintained by the Housekeeping Department in a safe box that holds the forgotten items for a certain period of time depending on its value. Valuable items hold for one year & non-valuable items hold for six months. · Proper hand-over of shift especially cash count is followed as procedure most especially to those department handling cash. Measurement of Outcomes No deals with incidents of corruption. No case of violations of the policy was reported. Page 20 of 21 Communication on Progress | July 2016 – June 2017 P.O. Box 31631, Sheikh Khalifa Bin Zayed Street, Ajman, United Arab Emirates Tel: 00971 6 703 1111 Fax: 00971 6 740 3000 info@ramadaajman.com www.ramadaajman.com Page 21 of 21
