ATTRACTIVE MORTGAGE IN PRIME LOCATION. Integrated Annual Report 2016 01 ABOUT SBAB 01 About us 02 The year in brief 04 Statement by the CEO 08 STRATEGIC DIRECTION Operating profit: 2,011million 08 How we open doors to housing 10 What we offer our customers 12 Where, what and how SEK 16 THE WIDER WORLD 2015: SEK 1,492 million READ MORE ON PAGE 40. 16 Trends and the wider world 18 The housing and residential mortgage market 20 Our view of sustainability Net interest income: 22 2,829 million FOCUS AREAS 22 Objectives, targets and results 24 26 Sound finances Responsibility and transparency SEK 26 Our responsibility as a creditor 30 Our responsibility as an employer 2015: SEK 2,442 million READ MORE ON PAGE 40. 36 Sustainable housing 40 ADMINISTRATION REPORT Return on equity: 12.3% 40 Condensed income statement and balance sheet 41 Consolidated income statement 44 The Retail business area 49 The Corporate Clients & Tenant-Owners’ Associations business area 52 Funding and liquidity 2015: 10.2% READ MORE ON PAGE 24. 54 Risk and capital management 58 60 Statement by the Chairman of the Board Corporate Governance Report CET1 capital ratio: 32.2% 66 Board of Directors 68 Executive Management 70 Proposed appropriation of profits 71 Five-year overview 2015: 28.6% READ MORE ON PAGE 55. 72 INCOME STATEMENT, BALANCE SHEET AND NOTES 73 Income statement 73 Statement of comprehensive income 74 Balance sheet 75 Statement of changes in equity 76 Cash-flow statement 77 Financial notes 127 SUSTAINABILITY 127 Notes 131 GRI/COP index 133 The Board of Directors’ signatures 134 Auditor’s Report 137 Auditor’s limited assurance report 138 Key performance indicators, definitions 139 Contact details and addresses While every care has been taken in the translation of this report, readers are reminded that the original report, signed by the Board of Directors, is in Swedish. This is SBAB’s second integrated Annual Report. The Annual Report is submitted by the Board of Directors and applies a clear and integrated approach, integrating sustainability and financial information. The Annual Report has been prepared in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative’s (GRI) guidelines, G4 — Core option. It also constitutes SBAB’s Communication on Progress (COP) to the UN Global Compact. For additional information about the Annual Report and the reporting principles, see page 127. The table of contents has been colour-coded to show which pages have been audited and which pages have been subject to a review by the auditors. The Corporate Governance Report has been subject to a statutory review by the company’s auditor. ANNUAL REPORT THAT HAS BEEN AUDITED. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT THAT HAS BEEN SUBJECT TO A LIMITED ASSURANCE ENGAGEMENT. ABOUT US Our business, SBAB Bank AB (publ), (SBAB), was founded in 1985 and is wholly owned by the Swedish state. Our business idea is to be mindful and innovative in our offering of loan and savings products to consumers, O  ur vision is to tenant-owners’ associations and property companies in Sweden. offer the best residential The Retail business area offers savings and loan products, and digital home and housing services to consumers. The core product — residential mortgages — is supplemented by personal loans and mortgages in insurance broking. Our retail customers are primarily located in areas around Stockholm, Gothenburg, Malmö, and other university cities Sweden. and growth markets. No. of residential mortgage customers: Around 233,000 No. of savings customers: Around 270,000 TWO BUSINESS The Corporate Clients & TenantAREAS Owners’ Associations business area offers savings and housing financing primarily to property companies and tenant-owners’ associations. In this business area. our primary focus is on customers located south of the Dal River, with property holdings mainly Total of 510 concentrated in major cities and in growth regions. No. of corporate clients and tenant-owners’ associations: Around 2,600 employees No. of savings customers: Around 13,000 SBAB has 510 employees1) based at five offices in Stockholm (2), Karlstad, Malmö and Gothenburg. Stockholm is the main location of our IT unit and central functions. Our Customer Centre and Stockholm Karlstad Operations are located in Karlstad. In Gothenburg and Malmö, there are local 233 account managers serving the Corporate 262 Clients & Tenant-Owners’ Associations Business Area. Gothenburg 7 Malmö 8 1) Number of employees expressed as full-time equivalents (FTEs), adjusted for sick leave and leave of absence, including 25 employees of the subsidiary Booli Search Technologies AB, (Booli). One of the two Stockholm offices belongs to Booli. The year in brief THE YEAR IN BRIEF Q1 • Completes acquisition of Booli Q2 • Introduces repayment requirement in line with FinansinspekApartment: YEAR:2016 tionen’s (Sweden’s financial Hall supervisory authority) regulaBox room tions C • Becomes the first bank in SweProperty:SBAB den to issue a green bond Bath R/F Kitchen Q3 Q4 • Participates in the calculation of Living room STIBOR for the first time • Becomes the fifth largest particBedroom • Sweden’s most satisfied residential mortgage customers ipant in the Swedish market for according to Swedish Quality deposits Index (Svenskt Kvalitetsindex, • Agrees upon and starts project to Balcony SKI), for the third consecutive replace IT base system year • Begins mortgage licensing for • Credit rating outlook raised by employees Moody’s • Reports record strong financial results The first to issue a SBAB becomes green bond a STIBOR bank In mid-2016, we READ MORE In 2016, we READ MORE ON PAGE 39. ON PAGE 43. became the first became the bank in Sweden to issue a green seventh bank to participate in bond. the calculation of the STIBOR reference rate. SVERIG ES NÖJD A PRIVAT STE Booli acquisition KUND ER BOLÅ N 2016 completed Sweden’s most satisfied residential In January 2016, we mortgage customers — for the third completed the acquiREAD MORE ON PAGE 46. consecutive year sition of Booli Search Technologies AB, We once again have Sweden’s most satisfied resiREAD MORE (Booli). This is a step in our transition ON PAGE 11. dential mortgage customers according to Swedish towards a more extensive customer Quality Index (Svenskt Kvalitetsindex, SKI). SBAB offering within housing and household received the highest score in the sector, both in terms of value and finances. recommendation rate. 2 SBAB Integrated Annual Report 2016 Mortgage advert, spring 2016 WELLPLANNED MORTGAGE IN MINT CONDITION. Move to us and become one of Sweden’s most satisfied residential mortgage customers. Statement by the CEO MAKING HOUSEHOLD FINANCES FUN STATEMENT BY THE CEO 2016 proved to be a very good year for SBAB, delivering Sweden’s most satisfied residential mortgage customers and record earnings. The trend towards digitalisation is increasing transparency and intensifying competition, resulting in customers expecting nothing but the best. Through a focus on customers’ housing and household finances, we intend to offer the best customer experience. Margins on residential mortgages were at 2016 continued to be characterised by fit our business, both in terms of consumers a historically low level in 2016. Increased special market conditions. Strong ecoand corporates. Sustainable housing is capital requirements have driven up the nomic growth with high demand combined one of our sustainability areas, and we margins on residential mortgages and with extremely low interest rates comprises focus on financing new construction of resexpectations of further capital requireanything but normal conditions. We have idential properties that consume energy ment increases in the future have created high population growth in Sweden, which more efficiently than older properties in an underlying upward pressure on these combined with continued urbanisation is the housing stock. During the year, we margins. Healthy margins combined creating intense demand for housing — in became the first Swedish bank to issue a with robust new lending during the year a housing market where there unfortugreen bond, using the funds generated to resulted in a strong net interest income nately already is a housing shortage. finance residential properties with lower trend, which rose 16% to SEK 2,829 milStructural measures aiming to stimulate energy consumption. lion — our highest ever. Return on equity and increase housing market mobility Increased indebtedness and rising was 12.3 percent, which exceeded our along with measures to increase housing housing prices illustrate the importance return target of 10 percent. Our cost/ construction are still lacking, although it of responsible credit granting and susincome ratio for the year was low at 30.5% is pleasing to note that new housing containable business in general. Our mission, while the Common Equity Tier 1 capital struction did increase in 2016. Altogether, to help improve housing quality and ratio ended up at a strong 32.2%. Sound market conditions are driving household household finances, is clearly sustainable finances represent one of our sustainability debt levels and housing prices. With its and ensures that focus remains on responareas. We present a fantastic result for focus on residential mortgages and houssibility throughout our organisation. It the year and are heading into the future ing financing, SBAB finds itself right in the gives me great pleasure to note that our on a strong footing in anticipation of the middle of these developments. loan losses for 2016 were extremely low investments required to continue building High demand for residential mortgages and that the credit quality in our lending a long-term competitive and sustainable and an increase in new construction beneportfolio strengthened during the year, SBAB. 4 SBAB Integrated Annual Report 2016 Statement by the CEO due to a lower debt ratio in the new influx of customers as well as lower loan-to-value people switching banks, which in turn reduces competitiveness in the residential For the third consecutive ratios for both our existing loan portfolio mortgage market. year, we had Sweden’s and our new influx of customers. This most satisfied residential strong credit quality is a result of increased Sweden’s most satisfied customers creditworthiness among customers, tightOne of our most important aims is to have mortgage customers ened credit regulations and targeted work the most satisfied residential mortgage according to Swedish on our brand, distribution and customer customers. We are there for our customcommunication. On 1 June 2016, the new ers, and if they are extremely satisfied then Quality Index (SKI). Our mandatory repayment requirement for this will lead to many more customers. In value proposition recurs consumers’ residential mortgages was our value proposition, we describe three introduced. Greater repayments lower aspects that our residential mortgage as central themes in the the risk for both SBAB and its customers. customers greatly appreciate about us: results of SKI’s survey, Further mandatory regulations from the accessibility, transparency and considauthorities, such as the introduction of a eration. Responsibility and transparency with SBAB scoring highly ceiling for debt-to-income ratios, cannot form another of our sustainability areas. in terms of service, relibe ruled out. More regulations that affect For the third consecutive year, we had and control the ability of individuals to Sweden’s most satisfied residential mortability, conditions, borrow and buy a property as opposed gage customers according to Swedish accessibility and value. to structural measures that increase Quality Index (Svenskt Kvalitetsindex, SKI). the housing supply and housing market Our value proposition recurs as central mobility sadly create more difficulties and themes in the results of SKI’s survey, with lead to lock-in effects. They result in fewer SBAB scoring highly in terms of service, Integrated Annual Report 2016 SBAB 5 Statement by the CEO reliability, conditions, accessibility and ers and corporates a significantly higher customers via new services and innovative value. It is also very pleasing to note that savings interest rate than the zero interest solutions. We work actively to improve and taking second place in SKI’s survey of corrate offered by the major banks. Deposits develop our customer offering in terms of porates shows that our corporate customincreased during the year by nearly SEK housing and household finances. Resideners are also highly satisfied. 20 billion, amounting to SEK 97 billion at tial mortgages represent an infrequent Through “white label” partnerships, the end of the year. In addition to our savpurchase, with the customer relationship we have given other financial players the ings accounts representing an important at its strongest when the application for opportunity in the past to offer residential part of our customer offering, deposits a residential mortgage is made, a new mortgages under their own brand, with also represent an important and growing home is purchased and the mortgage is SBAB as the lender. In line with our decishare of our lending financing, together disbursed. Ensuring our customer relationsion to focus on our own brand and the with the issuance of housing bonds and ships last as long as possible is important to customer relationship, we decided during non-covered bonds. The share of deposits us. We therefore seek to create customer the year to terminate a few such partnerin relation to lending amounted to 32.7% value throughout the entire period in which ships. One such terminated partnership at year end. Demand from investors for our the customer’s home requires financing. was divested during the year and entailed bonds remained strong during the year, For this reason, we are strengthening our approximately SEK 20.5 billion in resiresulting in favourable funding conditions customer offering by way of content and dential mortgages being transferred from for SBAB. Our rating from international services relating to housing and household SBAB, which meant that our total lending credit rating agencies is important for our finances. Our acquisition of the housing during the year did not increase and our funding conditions, so it is pleasing to see service Booli forms part of this strategy. In market share declined, despite strong that the credit rating agency Moody’s set addition to business development, Booli levels of new lending. No further transfers a positive outlook for SBAB in November also brings value in areas such as market of residential mortgage stocks are under regarding a raised credit rating. and valuation data as well as communiway. Lending amounted to SEK 296 billion It is becoming increasingly important to cation and marketing. Booli is one of Sweat year end. have strong customer relationships, since den’s largest housing sites and also offers Our deposits continued to record digital developments are enabling new the HittaMäklare service, which is Swestrong growth in 2016. We offer consumplayers to establish relationships with our den’s largest digital estate agent service. 6 SBAB Integrated Annual Report 2016 Statement by the CEO Residential mortgages represent an infrequent purchase, with the customer relationship at its strongest when the application for a residential mortgage is made, a new home is purchased and the mortgage is disbursed. Ensuring our customer relationships last as long as possible is important to us. We therefore seek to create customer value throughout the entire period in which the customer’s home requires financing. For this reason, we are strengthening our customer offering by way of content and services relating to housing and household finances. The banking and financial market is in the part, to attract the best talent. In our most To conclude, I would like to say that I am early stages of a major transformation recent quarterly survey, a large majority of impressed by our performance over the in terms of digitalisation and customer all employees replied that overall, SBAB is past few years and the credit for this is behaviour. We do not know what the a very good workplace. due to all of my colleagues. Many thanks market will look like several years from Providing a strong, value-driven corfor your fantastic efforts and for coming now. Accordingly, to guarantee long-term porate culture with an inclusive leadership together to make SBAB a really great competitiveness, it is strategically importand self-driven employees is our way of workplace and a competitive and sustainant and sustainable in the long term to creating a fun and sustainable workplace able bank in the long term. ensure favourable conditions to be able to at which employees can develop. Sharing change, improve and efficiently develop values and being driven by those values the customer offering and increase effileads to everyone essentially adopting Solna, March 2017 ciency. We therefore initiated the replacethe same attitude. However, having the ment of our entire IT system structure with same attitude does not mean that everya modern and flexible version during the one acts and thinks in the same way. year, which is a project that will take sevDiversity, equality, expertise and differing eral years to complete. approaches promote creativity, innovation Klas Danielsson and problem-solving. We work daily in line CEO Our people at SBAB with our four values and their significance To transform problems and challenges in many ways. These efforts result in SBAB into opportunities and competitive advanbeing more enjoyable and developing tages, ability and the right attitude are at a faster pace, with more innovation, P.S. Don’t miss our show in November at both required. We secure ability through people exercising their own influence and Globen in Stockholm featuring Erik Haag, the fantastic people that work at SBAB. It strengthened competitiveness. Put simply “Making household finances fun.” is crucial that SBAB is an attractive com— an attractive workplace. pany to work for, in part to ensure existing employees are able to develop and in Integrated Annual Report 2016 SBAB 7 How we open doors to housing HOW WE OPEN DOORS TO HOUSING STRATEGIC DIRECTION Our business is to raise and lend capital for residential purposes. We are part of a financial infrastructure that enables consumers to purchase their own home and companies to finance residential properties. Our day-to-day work opens opportunities for our customers to realise their dreams — dreams of a home. Funding, deposits & equity FUNDING Interest expense & dividends INVESTORS SAVERS OWNER Total funding: Total deposits: Equity: Total lending: SEK 247billion SEK 97billion SEK 15 billion SEK 296 billion FUNDING The next largest share of our funding, around 26%, consists of deposits. DeposLENDING When consumers, property companies its involve consumers, companies or SBAB offers residential mortgages and and tenant-owners’ associations come tenant-owners’ associations saving money housing financing to consumers, property to SBAB to borrow money, we first need in SBAB’s savings accounts, in return companies and tenant-owners’ associato raise capital. A major part of a new for interest on their savings. The share tions in Sweden. We supplement our offerresidential mortgage is financed by funds of our funding provided by deposits has ing with personal loans, insurance brokerwe borrow from other participants, mainly increased considerably in recent years, ing and digital home and housing-related major investors and the public. which has reduced our dependence on services. Our vision is simple — to offer the The majority of our funding, approxicapital market financing. best residential mortgages in Sweden. mately 70%, consists of funds borrowed in We receive the remaining share, In this era of digitalisation, at SBAB the capital markets. To achieve this, SBAB around 4 percent, from our owner, the we have chosen to not only adapt — we and its subsidiary, SCBC, issue bonds Swedish state, in the form of equity. In ensure that digitalisation and innovation that are purchased by investors. In return, return for its contribution, the owner permeate every part of our operations. we pay interest that is determined by the receives a return in the form of profit genAnd we do it in a way that is valued by our general interest rate level and by how erated by SBAB. In accordance with the customers. This has been demonstrated by safe investments in the SBAB Group are owner’s dividend target, at least 40% of the fact that we, for the third consecutive considered to be. Investor risk is reduced profit after tax is to be distributed. The rest year, had Sweden’s most satisfied residenby the fact that we often use residential of the profit is to be reinvested in SBAB. tial mortgage customers in 2016 accordmortgages as collateral for the bonds. 8 SBAB Integrated Annual Report 2016 How we open doors to housing Mission To help improve housing quality and household finances Vision To offer the best residential mortgages in Sweden Residential mortgages & housing financing LENDING Interest income SBAB currently open doors to CONSUMERS housing for over PROPERTY COMPANIES TENANT-OWNERS’ ASSOCIATIONS half a million people across Sweden. To consumers: To property companies: To tenant-owners’ associations: SEK 212 billion SEK 33 billion SEK 51 billion ing to Svenskt Kvalitetsindex (SKI). We continuously strive to refine our offering, this comes great responsibility. Sweden faces numerous societal challenges that HOUSING including by strengthening business modare economically, socially and environOur operations are structured around els and processes, training our employees mentally related to housing and the houshousing. Through innovation, SBAB’s core and developing and improving our proding stock. We endeavour to offer financial product, the residential mortgage, along ucts and services further. products and services that are sustainable with our supplementary products and As a bank, we also fulfil an important for individuals as well as property comother services should all lead to improved societal function. We are part of a finanpanies, tenant-owners’ associations and housing quality and household finances. cial infrastructure that enables consumers society at large. SBAB currently open doors to housing for to purchase their own home and compaover half a million people across Sweden. nies to finance residential properties. With How we achieve our results Our total lending to consumers, property companies and tenant-owners’ associations amounted to SEK 296 billion at year end. We receive interest as compensation for these loans. The difference between the interest expense on funding and the total sum paid by our borrowers in the form of interest is referred to as net interest income. Put simply, our final earnings consist of the net interest income less expenses for running our operations and loan losses. Integrated Annual Report 2016 SBAB 9 What we offer our customers WHAT WE OFFER OUR CUSTOMERS STRATEGIC DIRECTION Our value proposition — or customer promise — is based on an understanding of and insight into the values we offer our customers, why they have chosen us and why they will continue to choose us in the future. It represents the core of our operations, our DNA. ACCESSIBILITY Mortgages online and over the phone, seven days a week, covering all circumstances. SBAB’s focus and main product is residential mortgages. It’s what we do. It’s what we know. There are no queries relating to residential mortgages that we cannot answer, and our answers are based on the customers’ circumstances and previous knowledge. Our customers are able to reach us by telephone from 8 am to 9 pm, seven days a week, or around the clock online or on mobile devices. TRANSPARENCY Fair prices and appropriate terms and conditions from the start. We want to offer our customers straightforward, high-quality, simple products. We do not believe that the interest rate you get on your residential mortgages should depend on who you talk to at the bank, how you are dressed or how well-spoken you are. Our customers do not need to put on an act or adopt a negotiation strategy — we always offer fair prices and appropriate terms and conditions from the start. CONSIDERATION Housing specialists who care. Whereas expertise and skills often go hand in hand with a businesslike or cold approach, our housing specialists are considerate and generous with their knowledge. Consequently, a dialogue with us rarely involves money alone; it often involves support with major decisions as well. We feel it is natural to offer our customers a personal contact to assist them, bring things to their attention and send them reminders during the entire process. 10 SBAB Integrated Annual Report 2016 What we offer our customers SVERIGES NÖJDASTE DER PRIVATKUN BOLÅN 2016 FOR THE THIRD CONSECUTIVE YEAR SWEDEN’S MOST SATISFIED RESIDENTIAL MORTGAGE CUSTOMERS For the third consecutive year, we had Sweden’s most satisfied residential mortgage customers according to Swedish Quality Index (Svenskt Kvalitetsindex, SKI) With a customer satisfaction score of 75.2 out of 100, we rank well above the sector average of 65.7. Responsibility and transparency recur as central themes in SKI’s survey, with high scores awarded to SBAB in terms of service, reliability, conditions, accessibility and value. We took second place in terms of corporate customers, just 0.2 points behind first place. SBAB received a customer satisfaction score of 71.2 out of 100, with the sector average at 67.3 About Swedish Quality Index Swedish Quality Index (Svenskt Kvalitetsindex) is an independent research company that conducts customer and employee studies. About the survey The interviews upon which the survey is based were carried out by telephone during the period October–November 2016. The target group consisted of people aged 18–79 who are resident in Sweden. The studies were based on 1,608 interviews and the results were presented in the form of a score on a scale from 0 to 100. The higher the score, the better customers deemed the products and suppliers to meet their requirements and expectations. Read more about the survey at www.kvalitetsindex. se (in Swedish). Integrated Annual Report 2016 SBAB 11 Where, what and how WHERE, WHAT AND HOW STRATEGIC DIRECTION SBAB’s governance model clearly and simply describes where we are going, what steps we will take to get there and how we will achieve it. Achieving a balance between “what” and “how” is a prerequisite for achieving our vision — to offer the best residential mortgages in Sweden. WHERE TO OFFER THE BEST RESIDENTIAL MORTGAGE IN SWEDEN TO HELP IMPROVE HOUSING QUALITY AND HOUSEHOLD FINANCES READ MORE ON PAGE 13. WHAT HOW AN INNOVATIVE APPROACH ATTITUDES AND FOCUSED ON HOUSING VALUES Strategy & Business Regulatory Inclusive Self-driven business Values idea framework leadership employees model READ MORE ON PAGE 14. READ MORE ON PAGE 15. 12 SBAB Integrated Annual Report 2016 Where, what and how WHERE WE ARE GOING Mission To help improve housing quality and household finances Vision We have a broad mission that comprises many difTo offer the best residential ferent dimensions. It governs our conduct and our offering to customers — everything we do as part of mortgages in Sweden our operations should directly or indirectly lead to improved housing quality and household finances. Our mission clarifies that sustainability is an inteAt SBAB, our vision is the guiding principle in everygrated part of our business. thing we do. It constantly encourages us to improve. Offering the best residential mortgages in Sweden entails great demands for innovation and mindfulness. Our view is that we will offer Sweden’s best residential mortgages if we achieve a number of objectives in eight areas: awareness, customer offering, price, customer satisfaction, the workplace, sustainability, growth and profitability. Integrated Annual Report 2016 SBAB 13 Where, what and how WHAT STEPS WE WILL TAKE TO GET THERE Business idea Strategy Our business idea is to be mindful and innovative in our offering An innovative approach focused on housing. of loan and savings products to consumers, tenant-owners’ associations and property companies in Sweden. The development of digital banking and financial services is gaining momentum. New players are driving developInnovative thinking means continuously developing our customer ments and new regulations are redrawing the playing offering. Mindfulness means consistently putting our customers first: field. Simply offering a comparable banking service is no fair prices, appropriate terms and conditions and personal service — longer a winning strategy for the future. Niche excellence every day, in every situation. and driving development in your niche with services that customers love, use and value is a winning strategy and that is what SBAB’s strategy within housing and household finances is all about. Business model We have formulated a number of supporting strategies with the aim of illustrating the way to offer the best resiIn recent years, banking operations have become increasingly comdential mortgages in Sweden and clarify our position in the plex and demanding due to regulatory developments, not least in area of housing and household finances. These include IT, terms of issues concerning capital and liquidity. This means that the HR, sustainability and brand strategies, among others. fixed costs of our operations have increased, which places increasAll of our strategies have a clear bearing on our vision. ingly strict demands on efficiency and expanding volumes for longThis does not mean that they simply contain lofty wordterm profitability. Our business model is based on high efficiency, low ing. They contain tangible measures and activities and, marginal costs, a low level of risk, competitive market funding and perhaps even more importantly, encourage innovative sustainable growth in customer volumes. approaches and change. Regulatory framework Our business builds on our stakeholders having confidence in SBAB and the values we represent. Confidence is a result of compliance with the laws and regulations — both external and internal — that govern and influence our work, but it is also a result of our actions as a company. Regulation and monitoring of the banking and financial sector have both increased considerably over the past few years. Regulatory matters are often handled at EU level. Regulatory developments have had various effects on SBAB, including increased capital and liquidity requirements. They have also required adaptation to existing and forthcoming regulations, such as the Mortgage Credit Directive, the Payment Services Directive (PSD2), the repayment requirement, the Anti-Money Laundering Act and the Personal Data Act (PUL). As part of our efforts to ensure regulatory compliance, we have ourselves produced a number of governance documents to cover the issues we consider to be so essential to our operations that they need to be determined, formalised and regulated. These include SBAB’s Code of Conduct, policies, directions and instructions. We promote a healthy and open corporate culture where every employee is personally responsible for complying with the applicable regulations and acting ethically. We also comply with the Global Compact’s ten principles on corporate social responsibility and report these efforts in our Communication on Progress (COP). 14 SBAB Integrated Annual Report 2016 Where, what and how HOW WE WILL ACHIEVE IT Attitudes and values To achieve our vision, we must supplement the efficiency, discipline and good procedures of our operations with creativity, determination and speed. Such an approach requires actions that aim to bring about change and innovation. We work actively to develop our value-driven working approach, with our self-driven employees and inclusive leadership at its core. A value-driven working approach involves always ensuring we work with our values in mind — using them as a basis to consistently practise, talk, discuss and give feedback. It is a matter of giving our employees the tools and courage they need to take initiatives, make their own decisions and implement and test new ideas. SBAB’s corporate culture is described in terms of four values: We assume We work fast We are proud Together — responsibility — from and smart professionals we succeed start to finish • I’m ready to challenge • I think one step ahead • I act professionally • We meet targets and and think innovatively • We take decisions where • We are all responsible celebrate successes • I act promptly and issues can be solved for our clients • I am direct and clear deal with issues • We are careful with • We foster long-term • I share my expertise • We test and learn money relationships with everyone • We keep it simple • We act sustainably • I continuously develop • I make a difference and my skills focus on the bigger picture • We love doing business • I am unassuming and caring At SBAB, we want all employees to keep selves apart by incorporating our values a monetary “Value boost”. So far, a total our values in mind in their daily lives and into their life and work. This could involve of 13 employees have received the award work. For this reason, we have introduced a specific behaviour, an improvement, a and a place on our “Wall of Fame”. the “Value Driver” award. This award is saving, an achievement — in principle, based on nominations from colleagues anything at all. Receiving this award is and is open to anyone who works for us. A extra special. The nominated value drivREAD MORE ABOUT SBAB AS A WORKPLACE ON value driver is an employee who sets themer(s) receive(s), in addition to the honour, PAGES 30–34. Integrated Annual Report 2016 SBAB 15 Trends and the wider world TRENDS AND THE WIDER WORLD THE WIDER WORLD All companies must continuously adapt and reinvent themselves in today’s changing world. This applies equally to smaller players in the financial sector and housing market. Technological, economic, social and political changes all have an impact on the conditions and opportunities linked to our operations. There are long-term risks linked to wider obstacles to trade and less internationaltions and new business models are ready geopolitical developments. Since the isation could hold the development of the to compete for customers. Those who beginning of the 1990s, there has been a Swedish economy back in the future. create the best customer relationships and global trend toward military disarmament customer experiences will be the winners and increasing exchanges of products, Digitalisation a challenge to old in tomorrow’s financial market. The right services, capital and people, as many business models technology is also required to maintain countries have undergone deregulation On the technology front, major steps are positive relationships, create unique expeand opened up markets. The result has being taken in terms of digitalisation of the riences and exceed expectations. been increased foreign trade and growing entire financial sector. New innovations prosperity, not least in parts of the world are appearing constantly. Technological Consistently high level of regulation that had previously trailed behind. Swedevelopments are challenging old busiThe financial sector is potentially the most den has also benefited from this. However, ness models and intense efforts are under regulated sector of the economy. Particthere are signs that the trend towards way at many companies to retain and ipants who want to offer simple loan and increased integration and cross-border defend their existing positions. At the same savings products have to contend with and exchange may start to be reversed. More time, many new players offering new soluadhere to an incredible volume of regu16 SBAB Integrated Annual Report 2016 Trends and the wider world lations. Regulations have increased conconsiderable imbalance between housing requirements that came into force at the siderably over the past ten years and are supply and demand, with rising house beginning of June 2016. However, achievlikely to continue increasing in the future. prices and a rapid accumulation of houseing a balance in the long term requires The regulations essentially aim to reduce hold debt. It is difficult to specify exactly measures that improve the function of the the risk of future financial crises, limit costs how major and serious these imbalances housing market, such as tax and regulato society if a crisis were to occur and are, but with each year that prices and tory amendments that both facilitate the maintain a strong level of consumer prodebt levels rise, so does the sensitivity of construction of new housing and stimulate tection. These aims are achieved at a cost, households and the economy to major turnover in the existing housing stock. however, and new, more extensive regulafluctuations in house prices and interest tion is expected on an international, Eurorates. It is pleasing, therefore, to see that pean and national level, which will render the increase in both prices and debt levels banking operations even more complex. slowed in 2016 as new housing construction gathered pace. Politically speaking, Problems in the housing market remain measures have mainly focused on the resFor a long time, the Swedish housing and idential mortgage market, most recently residential mortgage market has had a with the expanded mortgage repayment A new agenda for sustainable development The generational goal The Swedish environmental objective system contains a generational goal, 16 environmental quality objectives and 24 milestone targets. The overall goal of Swedish environmental policy, the generational goal, is to hand over to the next generation a society in which the major environmental problems in Sweden have been solved, without increasing environmental and health problems outside Sweden’s borders. A government proposal clarified that UN’s Sustainable Development Goals the generational goal is to be fulfilled by At the UN summit of 25 September 2015, heads of state from around the globe 2020. One of the environmental quality adopted the Agenda 2030 for Sustainable Development. This is a new development objectives, objective 15, refers to a good agenda comprising 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) that are to replace the built environment. This sector accounts for previous Millennium Development Goals (MDGs). An important part of the agenda nearly 40% of Sweden’s energy consumpconcerns the sharing of responsibility among all players in society. Every player in tion and is key to the country achieving society is considered important in terms of implementing the agenda, and the business its established targets. SBAB is a leading community plays a key role. player in the housing financing sector and The Swedish Government’s updated ownership policy, which will take effect as of thus has a great responsibility to drive 2017, states that companies in which the Government is an owner must analyse the developments in this area. SDGs contained in Agenda 2030 within the framework of their operations to identify which goals the company can influence and contribute to through its activities. Companies are also expected to identify business opportunities that contribute to the achievement of the goals. In 2017, we intend to analyse and map out the SDGs in relation to our strategies, focus areas and targets regarding sustainable business, in order to ultimately integrate relevant parts into our operations. Integrated Annual Report 2016 SBAB 17 The housing and residential mortgage market THE HOUSING AND RESIDENTIAL MORTGAGE MARKET THE WIDER WORLD The Swedish economy is continuing to develop strongly, despite uncertainty in the wider world and rising long-term interest rates. Swedish households have strong finances and savings account deposits are at record levels. The rise in household indebtedness slowed somewhat during the year, even though debts are continuing to increase at a faster rate than incomes. The authorities have announced that further macroprudential measures could become necessary in the future. For most of 2016, both short and long-term and uncertainties as to how political and same rate as last year, while maintaining market interest rates in the wider world economic conditions in the wider world will the high rate of saving. were below the levels seen in 2015. Howprogress moving forward. Inflation rose gradually during the ever, long-term interest rates rose towards year, though it continued to fall below the the end of the year. The wider world is High growth in the Swedish economy Riksbank’s inflation target of 2% and the still wrestling with problems in the form of Despite growth slowing marginally comincrease is mainly attributable to rising unexpectedly weak economic growth, high pared with 2015, the Swedish economy energy prices rather than a more general unemployment and prolonged low inflahad one of the highest growth rates in the increase in inflationary pressure. The Rikstion. Many countries’ public finances are western world in 2016. Growth in domestic bank therefore lowered its key interest rate under strain. The differences in developdemand was supported by both consumpfurther and increased purchases of govment between different regions and countion and investment. Housing construction ernment bonds in 2016. Short-term market tries became more pronounced in 2016. and public consumption accelerated, repinterest rates gradually declined slightly Growth forecasts for the US economy have resenting a particularly important contriduring the year and long-term market brightened while the European economy bution to the stable growth. Foreign trade interest rates also closed lower, despite a is showing weak growth. The economic sitheld growth back, however, with exports fairly notable increase in the latter part of uation in China remains uncertain, with a of goods developing particularly weakly. the year. number of question marks hovering over its The public finances have continued to property market. Initially, the results of the strengthen as employment levels have Increased housing construction UK’s referendum on EU membership along increased. Households benefited from Housing construction in 2016 was in line with the US presidential election had low interest rates, rising house prices and with demographic developments for the relatively minor impacts on the financial higher real incomes, and were thus able to first time in many years. However, the markets, but have definitely raised doubts increase their consumption at roughly the imbalance between supply and demand GROWTH AND INFLATION HOUSING PRICES INTEREST RATES % % % 8 300 6 6 5 4 250 4 2 3 0 200 2 –2 1 –4 150 –6 0 –8 100 –1 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 GDP growth Inflation Tenant-owners’ rights Houses The Riksbank’s key interest rate Mortgage bond rate, 5-year Government bond rate, 10-year 18 SBAB Integrated Annual Report 2016 The housing and residential mortgage market created in previous years is continuing to is also deemed to have expanded rapidly. tions further in 2016, with more tightening drive up housing prices while mobility in Low interest rates, the stable development likely to come in 2017. It is also probable the housing market is limited by various of household incomes, increased housing that capital adequacy regulations will be regulations and tax rules. The unchanged construction and beneficial conditions for tightened further in the future. A debt-tomortgage rates and tightening of repayproperty transactions have all contributed income ratio — a limit on the size of a loan ment requirements did however contribute to this expansion. compared to income — may also become to rate of increase in housing prices falling The rise in household indebtedness a reality if the increase in debt does not somewhat in 2016. slowed during the year, but debts are ease off. Other measures that may curb In 2016, the value of households’ mortcontinuing to increase at a faster rate this development, such as the abolition of gages grew 7.6% to SEK 2,902 billion, than incomes. Following a number of legal interest-rate deductions or moving-related while loans to tenant-owners’ associations rounds, Finansinspektionen’s repayment taxes, the reintroduction of property taxes, increased by 7.2% to SEK 416 billion. The requirement took effect on 1 June. Most amended rent controls and construction market for financing multi-family dwellings banks also tightened their lending condisubsidies, will likely also be discussed in the coming period. Continued high rate of saving At the end of 2016, the financial sector held SEK 3,094 billion in deposits from MARKET DEVELOPMENT HOUSEHOLD DEBT Swedish households, companies and SEK bn SEK bn organisations. The share of retail deposits 3,000 4,000 was SEK 1,654 billion. Households depos2,500 3,500 ited SEK 1,619 billion with banks, which are 3,000 subject to the national deposit guarantee. 2,000 2,500 Household savings increased at a faster rate than household debt, despite the 1,500 2,000 low interest rates. In 2016, retail deposits 1,500 in banks increased 8.6% and corporate 1,000 1,000 deposits rose 9.8%. 500 500 0 0 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 Residential mortgages Personal loans Household b ank deposits Integrated Annual Report 2016 SBAB 19 Our view of sustainability OUR VIEW OF SUSTAINABILITY THE WIDER WORLD Our operations depend and have an impact on many different types of stakeholder. The ability to contribute to sustainable societal development requires our stakeholders to have confidence in us and the values we represent. Customers The confidence our customers have in SBAB determines our ability to develop in many respects, and therefore also our ability to take on a greater role in societal development. The skills, professionalism and consideration shown by our employees on a daily basis are apparent in surveys conducted by Svenskt Kvalitetsindex (Swedish Quality Index, SKI) and Nordic Brand Academy (NBA). Suppliers Investors Investor confidence in SBAB is based on investors’ interaction with our employees as well as on a belief in our business model and our ability to support positive and sustainable economic developments. We note with great pleasure the growing interest in our sustainability efforts as a growing number of investors integrate sustainability aspects into their analyses and investment decisions. Partners Employees SBAB’s employees are its most important asset. Motivated and committed employees are a prerequisite for our success and one of the most important resources in terms of achieving our vision. Our employees’ motivation to create value through stakeholder relations depends on a number of factors, including leadership, skills development, development opportunities and our corporate culture. Stakeholder organisations Owner SBAB is wholly owned by the Swedish government. Corporate governance is exercised through the general shareholder meeting, the Board of Directors appointed by that Media meeting, the Articles of Association, the Swedish government’s ownership policy and continuous ministerial contacts with the Chairman of the Board and the CEO. The Swedish government’s ambition for Swedish state-owned companies — to set good examples and serve as role models for sustainable development — has inspired us to clarify our role in the sustainable development of society. 20 SBAB Integrated Annual Report 2016 Our view of sustainability Three focus areas within sustainable business Based on the results of the stakeholder and materiality analysis, SBAB’s Board of Directors has established three particularly important focus areas within sustainable business. Together, these focus areas form the basis of a common approach to SBAB’s contribution to sustainable societal development. Material aspects As a bank, SBAB bears a particular responsibility. This involves both contributing to our customers’ 1 Financial performance financial security and, as part of the financial 2 Sustainable products Sound system, ensuring the long-term sustainability of 3 Ethics finances the country’s economy. Sound finances are a prerequisite for our ability to achieve this and to conduct business operations that are sustainable 4 Customer relationships in the long term. 5 Communication 6 Employees 7 Social responsibility For SBAB, responsibility and transparency involve 8 Business relationships promoting responsible lending, marketing and Responsisales. Through openness and transparency, we 9 Environmental responsibility bility aim to improve the reputation of the banking and transand financial sectors. Our responsibility as an Being attentive to the requirements, needs parency employer is another important element of the and wishes of our stakeholders is a prereqfocus area. uisite for developing SBAB’s business in the desired direction and thereby creating long-term value. It emerged from our stakeholder and SBAB has extensive experience and knowledge materiality analysis — whereby we conwithin property financing, and matters related to ducted qualitative telephone interviews homes and housing are deeply ingrained in the with representatives from important Sustaincompany's roots. Sweden faces numerous societal stakeholder groups such as customers, the able challenges that are economically, socially or enviowner, employees and investors, asking housing ronmentally related to housing. As we are highly questions about the sustainability areas committed to sustainable housing, we seek to conthey considered to be most important for tribute to positive societal developments. SBAB to focus on — that our stakeholders would mainly like us to prioritise our contribution to financial performance, our For every focus area, we have adopted a fixed strategy, overall targets and meaability to create sustainable products and surable targets, and determined how the results should be reported. Targets and our responsibility to act ethically. metrics are reviewed each year in conjunction with the business planning process. Our policy for sustainable business is available on our website, www.sbab.se. READ MORE IN THE SUSTAINABILITY NOTES ON PAGE 127. Sustainability strategy review Much has happened in our macro-environment, which is why we the greatest opportunity to influence. This work is expected to be initiated a new stakeholder and materiality analysis at the end of completed in spring 2017 and may result in changed objectives 2016. The analysis aims to ensure that through our sustainability and new targets for our sustainability agenda. efforts, we drive and work on those issues and areas of primary importance to our stakeholders and ourselves, and where we have READ MORE IN THE SUSTAINABILITY NOTES ON PAGE 127. Integrated Annual Report 2016 SBAB 21 Objectives, targets and results OBJECTIVES, TARGETS AND RESULTS FOCUS AREAS: OBJECTIVES, TARGETS AND RESULTS SBAB’s objectives are based on our three focus areas within sustainable business: Sound finances, Responsibility and transparency and Sustainable housing. In addition to these objectives, each business area, department and function has a large number of internal business targets, which are regularly followed up and evaluated. Focus areas Overarching objectives Sound finances A profitable business ensures the return on equity Through long-term profitability — we can help promote sustainable societal development We are well capitalised and invest in achieving our vision READ MORE ON PAGES 24–25. — to offer the best residential mortgages in Sweden We are open and transparent in our sales and marketing activities as well as in our product terms and conditions. Our customers recommend us as a financing partner. Responsibility and Responsibility as a creditor We are responsible in our lending practices and assist transparency our customers throughout the entire residential mortgage process We are open and transparent and assume responsibility as a lender and SBAB is an attractive workplace that values equality and an employer. diversity Responsibility as an employer Our employees are considerate, skilled and proud to READ MORE ON PAGES 26–34. work for SBAB Sustainable We are involved in financing new housing housing We finance sustainable housing that results in less environmental impact and a better We develop products that contribute to a better home environment, home environment. improved housing finances and a reduced environmental impact READ MORE ON PAGES 36–39. 1) T  he Board of Directors adopted new capital targets for SBAB in 2016. According to these new targets, under normal conditions, SBAB’s Common Equity Tier 1 (CET1) capital ratio should be at least 1.5 percentage points higher than the CET1 capital requirement communicated by Finansinspektionen. This target is estimated, according to SBAB’s internal assessment, to correspond to a CET1 capital ratio of at least 25.4% as of 31 December 2016. 2) The target refers to the number of employees stating an NPS of 9–10 in response to the query “Would you consider recommending SBAB as an employer?” 3) R  efers to the number of retail customers who consume a sustainable product or service provided by SBAB. At year-end 2016, 44 retail customers had an Energy loan with SBAB. At the same time, SBAB’s mobile app, Energy guide, had 1,013 users. 4) SBAB issued a green bond on 16 June 2016. 5) Target set ahead of 2015 or 2016, thus explaining why there is no outcome for the year. 22 SBAB Integrated Annual Report 2016 Objectives, targets and results 2016 target Result 2016 2015 2014 Profitability: Return on equity over time >10.0% 12.3% 10.2% 12.1% Dividend: Ordinary dividend based on profit for the year after tax, taking the Group's capital structure into account >40% 40% 0% 40% Capitalisation: Common Equity Tier 1 capital ratio 1) 25.4% 32.2% 28.6% 29.8% Transparency: The percentage of customers who think that SBAB states its terms and conditions in an open and straightforward manner >85% 89% 88% 88% Customer ambassadors: Sweden’s most satisfied residential mortgage customers according to Swedish Quality Index (Svenskt Kvalitetsindex, SKI) 1st 1st 1st 1st Equality: Equality between women/men in management positions (within the range) 45–55% 45/55% 44/56% 41/59% An attractive workplace: The percentage of employees recommending SBAB as an employer (9–10 in the Net Promoter Score, NPS) 2) 40% 43% 37% n/a5) Financing of new housing: Contribute to the construction of new housing (number) 1,750 2,966 n/a5) n/a5) Retail: Sustainable customer offering (no. of customers) 5,000 1,0573) n/a5) n/a5) Product development Corporate Clients & Tenant-Owners’ Associations: Develop a sustainable 1 14) 1 n/a5) offering in 2016 Integrated Annual Report 2016 SBAB 23 Sound finances SOUND FINANCES FOCUS AREAS: SOUND FINANCES Long-term profitability allows us to contribute to sustainable societal development. As a bank, we are part of society’s basic Our day-to-day work opens opportunities Profitability infrastructure. Well-functioning banks for our customers to realise their dreams — SBAB’s profitability target specifies a contribute to societal development and dreams of a home. return on equity amounting to at least employment. We create conditions that Sound finances based on long-term 10%. It is important for SBAB to be profitallow consumers to build up their financial profitability are a prerequisite for our abilable since this, along with economic stabilsecurity by saving and borrowing money at ity to invest in and conduct our operations ity, creates the conditions for us to develop different life stages, and we enable comin a sustainable manner and thereby make our operations while also helping us create panies to operate, grow and create value a positive contribution to society. long-term value for the owner. Return on for many different kinds of stakeholders. equity amounted to 12.3% in 2016 (10.2). 2016 target Result 2016 2015 2014 Profitability: Return on equity over time >10.0% 12.3% 10.2% 12.1% Dividend: Ordinary dividend based on profit for the year after tax, taking the Group's capital structure into account >40% 40% 0% 40% Capitalisation: Common Equity Tier 1 capital ratio 25.4% 32.2% 28.6% 29.8% STOCKHOLMS STADSMISSION HOUSING FOR ALL We support Stockholms Stadsmission in a lot of suffering, not least for children, and of the project. We also arranged a number its aim to reduce the acute issue of homeit often takes many years to escape from. of meetings with representatives from the lessness in Stockholm County by 2018 by All housing market participants need to City of Stockholm and our property comoffering housing to 250 people through the work together to tackle the major chalpany customers to discuss what we can do “Särskildnyttan” project. The project aims lenge posed by the housing shortage,” says together and to identify solutions to reduce to enable property owners, housing develMarika Markovits, Director of Stockholms homelessness. The meetings resulted opers and financiers to contribute housing Stadsmission. in several agreements being drawn up or finance housing support for those peoWithin the framework of this project, between Stockholms Stadsmission and varple who are most cut off from the ordinary we arranged for one of our employees to ious property companies, aiming to make housing market. work at Stockholms Stadsmission in 2016. apartments available to Stadsmission to “Homelessness risks affecting new We also helped develop an administrative rent to homeless people as vacancies arise groups in our society; families with chilfunction, Bobyrån, which currently serves in property portfolios. dren, the elderly and new arrivals. It causes as the control centre for the practical parts 24 SBAB Integrated Annual Report 2016 Sound finances Dividend 2016, corresponding to SEK 628 million. points higher than the CET1 capital Part of our funding comes from The rest of the profit is to be reinvested requirement communicated by Finansinour owner, the Swedish state, in the form into operations. spektionen. At the end of the year, this of equity. In return for its contribution, target was expected, according to internal the owner receives a return in the form of Capitalisation estimates by SBAB, to correspond to a profit generated by SBAB. In accordance It is important for SBAB to be well capitalCET1 capital ratio of not less than 25.4%. with the owner’s dividend target, at least ised, since it contributes to the financial The CET1 capital ratio amounted to 40% of profit after tax is to be distributed, stability of the company as well as its abil32.2% (28.6) at the end of the year, which taking SBAB’s capital structure into considity to grow. In 2016, the Board of Directors is 6.8% above our target. eration. As our owner is the Swedish state, adopted new capital targets for SBAB. this profit goes back into the Treasury and According to these new targets, under READ MORE IN THE ADMINISTRATION helps to finance state expenditure. The normal conditions, SBAB’s CET1 capital REPORT BEGINNING ON PAGE 40. Board proposes a dividend of 40% (0) for ratio should be at least 1.5 percentage Interest paid to the Fee for national deposit public (deposit) guarantee and resolution fee Tax for the year SEK 515 million SEK 134 million SEK 441 million Profit for the year to be reinvested into operations Interest paid attributable Other operationally SEK 942 million Salaries and remuneration to funding related expenses Proposed dividend to employees SEK 1,120 million SEK 450 million SEK 628 million SEK 412 million Financial value creation One way of measuring how we generate financial value for our stakeholders is by presenting information on how the financial value is distributed. Homelessness risks affecting new “Our collaboration with SBAB has been groups in our society. Every decisive in terms of the project’s develplayer in the housing maropment. It is invaluable to have partners who offer a plan and a purpose for their ket needs to work together support.” to tackle the major challenge posed by the housing shortage. – Marika Markovits, Director, Stockholms Stadsmission Read more about Stockholms Stadsmission and the organisation’s work at www.stadsmissionen.se. Integrated Annual Report 2016 SBAB 25 Our responsibility as a creditor OUR RESPONSIBILITY AS A CREDITOR FOCUS AREAS: RESPONSIBILITY AND TRANSPARENCY Through openness and transparency, we aim to improve the reputation of the banking and financial sector. ... and transparency leads to satisfied customers Our customers appreciate transparent and straightforward pricing of residential mortgages and we believe this is a natural part of an open and trustworthy customer relationship. Our pricing of residential mortgages is based on the current listed rates for each maturity, as published on www.sbab.se. The customer’s specific interest rate is presented as a deviation from the list rate, and this deviation is based on the size of the loan and the loan-to-value (LTV) ratio of the property. The LTV ratio can be described as the proportion of the loan in relation to the market value of the property. Our customers can make their own calculations to see which interest rate they would receive on different loan amounts Responsibility... It is important that our customers fully and LTV ratios directly on our website, We strive to offer financial products that understand the terms and conditions when www.sbab.se. As a supplement to our are sustainable for individuals, companies, they purchase a product or service from us basic pricing, we occasionally apply temtenant-owners’ associations and society at and that they feel secure when they make porary offers with clearly stated terms. large. A prerequisite for sustainable finanimportant financial decisions. We strive to We believe that responsible and transcial products is sound credit granting. This be straightforward, clear and transparent parent credit granting is a prerequisite for involves being clear and transparent with throughout our credit process. Our cushaving satisfied customers, particularly terms, conditions and products. As a comtomers should always feel confident in their nowadays where confidence in the brokpany, we must also ensure that we conduct financial commitment and in having SBAB ering of residential mortgages is perhaps sales, marketing and credit approvals as their creditor. A full 89% of our custommore important than ever before. We are responsibly. ers feel that we present our terms and contherefore extremely proud of the fact that ditions in a simple and open manner. we had Sweden’s most satisfied residential mortgage customers 2016 according to SKI for the third consecutive year. 2016 target Result 2016 2015 2014 Transparency: The percentage of customers who think that SBAB states its terms and conditions in an open and straightforward manner >85% 89% 88% 88% Customer ambassadors: Sweden’s most satisfied residential mortgage customers according to Swedish Quality Index (Svenskt Kvalitetsindex, SKI) 1st 1st 1st 1st 26 SBAB Integrated Annual Report 2016 Our responsibility as a creditor Simplified credit approval process for consumers Credit Housing Credit Granted rules cost scoring credit calculation A responsible credit approval process the ability to make repayments cannot be loan. The customer’s properties are valued We continuously monitor developments in guaranteed. The credit approval process by SBAB’s valuation department. As part of terms of the property market, macroecocentres around a calculation of housing this valuation, we also assess future mainnomic conditions and household finances. costs. If the calculation indicates there tenance requirements and the customer’s Together with analyses of SBAB’s lending is a sufficient surplus, a loan is normally ability to finance such requirements. Cusportfolio, this knowledge forms the basis granted provided that the customer satistomers are managed individually by a team of changes and adjustments made to our fies other formal requirements and credit consisting of an account manager, analyst credit approval process. We continuously regulations. If the calculation indicates a and loan administrator. In contrast to retail review our credit rules for consumers, deficit, the loan is not granted. lending, we physically meet our corporate companies and tenant-owners’ associaFor SBAB’s residential mortgages, coland tenant-owners’ association customers tions alike. lateral is posted in the form of a mortgage via individual meetings and frequent semdeed on a property or a participation in inars to share our expertise, gather necConsumers a tenant-owners’ association. The loan is essary information and to create a close We strive to ensure a streamlined credit permitted to correspond to a maximum of customer relationship. approval process, which means that we do 85% of the value of the property. This limit, SBAB aims to ensure that the loans we not offer loans in every kind of situation. As or mortgage ceiling, was introduced in finance reflect sound environmental risk an online bank, SBAB does not grant credit 2010. In total, 5% (7) of our loan portfolio management. Any negative impact on the to customers who require major manual consists of loans with an LTV ratio of more climate or environment should be avoided analysis work or for properties that are difthan 85% — a proportion that is decreaswherever possible, or at least minimised, ficult to re-evaluate without a site visit. ing over time. mitigated or compensated for. As part of We place the same requirements on our credit granting to property compaour partners as we do on ourselves. This Corporates and tenant-owners’ nies and tenant-owners’ associations, we means that our credit regulations remain associations consider certain sustainability criteria as the same, regardless of whether a cusOur credit approval of corporates and a part of the overall assessment, including tomer comes to SBAB directly or to one tenant-owners’ associations is also prienvironmental risks, energy consumption of our partners. We carry out continuous marily based on the ability to make repayand environment classification of the random follow-ups along with other types ments. In addition to the ability to make properties used as collateral. The property of reviews to ensure that all of our credit repayments, which we assess by analysing companies’ environmental policies are approvals are managed in a sound manincome and cash-flow statements, we also also relevant. ner that complies with SBAB’s regulations. assess the collateral for the customer’s Our granting of credit to consumers is based on an extensive credit approval process that determines whether customers have the required financial capacity to meet their commitments. HOUSING COST CALCULATION LTV RATIO IN THE LOAN PORTFOLIO We base our credit approval process on existing credit rules, such as rules govern+ Borrower’s income 1) 0–50% ing debt ratios and LTV ratios, information 50–75% received from credit rating agencies, such – Housing expenses 2) 75–85% >85% as UC, and the Land Registry as well as information provided by the customers – Living expenses 3) themselves. The expertise and professionalism of our mortgage administrators are = Surplus (or deficit) an important part of the process. First, 1) T  he stated income is checked using the credit information we assess the customer’s ability to make service UC, among others. 2) Repayments, running costs, monthly fees and repayments, but also any collateral posted stressed interest rates. for the loan. Loans are not approved if 3) I n accordance with the Swedish Consumer Agency’s guidelines — taking the number of minors and adults in the household into account. Integrated Annual Report 2016 SBAB 27 Our responsibility as a creditor ing prices. The debt ratio gives us a good indication of how sensitive our customer's ability to make repayments is to changes in the interest rate or income levels, as well as of the customer’s scope for making repayments. SBAB has a credit rule that limits to the debt ratio to six. Customers with payment difficulties We have a responsibility and a duty to help customers who encounter temporary payment difficulties. Our insolvency team in Karlstad has extensive experience and works actively to help customers who have run into difficulties, while always working in a way to minimise our loan losses. We usually say that we work on preventative When viewing and valuing properties, gages with an LTV ratio of more than 70%, insolvency management. This means that in addition to the property’s location, and 1% per year down to an LTV ratio of our ambition is to initiate a dialogue at an condition, standard and other factors, 50%. Loans taken out before 1 June 2016 early stage in cases where we discover that special attention should be paid to any are not covered by the new repayment a customer is having payment difficulties. occurrence of environmentally disturbing requirements. In addition to the minimum factors, such as polluted land, substandard level of repayments, we offer our customSecurity ventilation and harmful building materials. ers individual repayment recommendaOur preventative work within banking tions. More information about the new security and banking confidentiality is of Loan repayments repayment requirement rules and the rules major importance in terms of the conSBAB believes that repayments help SBAB applies is available on our website, fidence our customers have in us. Our ensure sound household finances. www.sbab.se. security measures involve both prevention Approximately two thirds of our residential and control. We take measures to detect mortgage customers amortise at least Debt ratio and counteract threats in advance and we one of their loans. On 1 June 2016, we In recent years, we have noticed an regularly check that our protective meaintroduced new loan repayment rules in increase in how much our customers sures are effective. Security is always an line with Finansinspektionen’s regulations. borrow in relation to their gross income, important element in the management and These rules include a repayment rate of referred to as their debt ratio. This development of our products and services. 2% per year for new residential mortincrease is partly a result of soaring housSBAB’S HOUSING ECONOMISTS COMMUNICATING SO EVERYONE CAN UNDERSTAND To make a well thought-out and considered purchase in the possible understand them. This entails not simply talking to the housing market, it is important to do your homework and underfinancial press that is already up to speed with them, but attemptstand exactly what it is you are buying. This is made more diffiing to reach out by using a different tone in other channels,” Claucult by tricky terminology and complicated annual reports, dia continues. SBAB’s housing economists Emma Persson and Claudia WörThe fact our brains think in a visual way and want to have as mann think. much fun as possible doesn’t help when it comes to a buyer of a “In autumn 2016, we conducted a survey which showed that tenant-owners’ right attempting to understand a fairly inaccesfew people understood the meaning of the various concepts linked sible annual report produced by a tenant-owners’ association. to the housing market,” says Claudia Wörmann. Many apartment buyers have trouble sufficiently understanding SBAB’s housing economists believe the fact that more than half what they are buying as many lack the experience of interpreting of those surveyed often do not understand frequently occurring an annual report. concepts such as “debt-to-income ratio” and “deferred capital “My experience is that many people are not sufficiently aware gains tax rules” can lead to problems. of the fact that a tenant-owners’ right is a share in an association “Those of us who regularly use these concepts in various social and that they therefore also become owners of a share of the channels have a responsibility to ensure that as many people as association’s debt,” says Emma Persson. 28 SBAB Integrated Annual Report 2016 Our responsibility as a creditor 2016 was dedicated to refining our secutherefore have a programme to ensure We have carried out training programmes rity checks to ensure that they are relevant that we: and risk evaluations in this area as part of in terms of the threats to banks in Sweden. The focus was on IT security, information • Have a good level of customer awareour operations. All management teams have participated in an anti-corruption ness security, risk and continuity management course — and no incidents of corruption and process development. In addition, • Have risk-based procedures were reported during the year. SBAB’s risk reporting includes Key Security Indicators (KSI) within security, which • Have an adapted transaction monitorCode of Conduct ing system in place increases the Board’s ability to monitor and govern SBAB’s level of security. • Undertake regular checks We let our values and Code of Conduct act as a moral compass in terms of definIdentity theft, spyware, trojans and • Train employees; all employees at ing our behaviour and what we stand for other forms of IT-based threats are current SBAB have been trained in SBAB’s as a company. Our Code of Conduct is societal problems that affect our responsiefforts to counteract money laundering resolved by the Board of Directors and is bility as a creditor and a bank. We inform and financing of terrorism available for all employees on our intranet. our customers about what they should watch out for and what measures they • Continuously follow up on how our AML It provides guidance on how we should act and conduct ourselves in various situations programme is working should take to protect themselves and their and the inherent responsibilities of being computers. • Closely monitor regulatory developa SBAB employee. Employees, managers, ments consultants, members of the Executive Counteracting financial crime Management and Board members are Counteract corruption Money laundering and financing responsible for understanding and comIt is of the utmost importance for us as a of terrorism plying with our Code of Conduct. company to take a clear stand against corOur operations are to be conducted in a ruption. There are many reasons for this. manner that minimises the risk of the bank Whistleblower function Corruption undermines democracy, renbeing exploited for money laundering purWe have a whistleblower function in place, ders financial growth more difficult, disposes or financing of terrorism. An overall through which employees are able to torts competition and entails serious legal risk assessment is carried out at least once report potential internal improprieties. and reputational risks. a year aimed at identifying and assessing Instructions regarding this function are SBAB has an internal policy detailing how the risks to our operations in these areas. available for all employees on our intranet. our operations deal with benefits. During The assessment forms the basis of meathe year, the policy was updated to reflect sures taken to control risks. We need to changes in the Code on Gifts, Rewards and pose questions and make the necessary other Benefits in Business published by the checks in an effective manner to ensure Swedish Anti-Corruption Institute. our services are not at risk of abuse. We Some associations strive to keep the monthly service charge down to make the apartments more attractive to buyers. In this case, it is important to know that, despite this, the financial plan can support sufficient provisions for savings and future renovations. “If the association is forced to raise the service charge then you as an apartment owner are hit on two fronts. Firstly, the market value can fall and secondly, you may end up with an increased housing expense,” Emma explains. Poor grasp of terminology • 65% of all Swedes do not know the meaning of “debt-to-income ratio” • 52% are unsure what “deferred capital gains tax rules” entail • 49% state that they do not know what the term “moving-related taxes” entail • In contrast, only 15% do not know what the “interest-rate deduction” entails Integrated Annual Report 2016 SBAB 29 Our responsibility as an employer OUR RESPONSIBILITY AS AN EMPLOYER FOCUS AREAS: RESPONSIBILITY AND TRANSPARENCY We consider it important to dedicate as much energy and focus to our employees’ experience as we do to the customer experience. We are convinced that we are dependent now more than ever upon people who are motivated, who can identify needs and opportunities and who can act on them. For us, freedom is the key. The freedom to generate ideas, freedom to collaborate, freedom to find solutions — all of which is summarised in the term “self-driven employees.” Corporate culture At SBAB, we strive to enable all of our employees to be independent and driven and to take their own sensible decisions. Our corporate culture is describes in our four values, which are presented on page 15. At SBAB, it is not the Executive Management that decides which initiatives are to be implemented by issuing instructions. At our company, the focus is always on our 1. Corporate employees. We make decisions where the culture issue can be resolved and find a unique way to achieve our targets. Everyone is 2. 3. 4. expected to put forward their own initiaLeader Talent Skills tives. We refer to “climbing up the initiative ship managedevelopment ment ladder” as one of the symbols of having independent drive. The ladder symbolises HR strategy our ability to take our own initiatives. Being high up this ladder means taking initia5. 6. 7. A business-related HR strategy Change Health Remunerais the key to achieving our vision tives and taking action. Being a long way managetion and our business objectives. In down the ladder means falling victim to ment our new strategy, we have defined circumstances, complaining and waiting eight key areas, within which we for others to solve problems. Our managare to be at the forefront in order ers have a great responsibility in terms of for our operations to evolve in the creating the necessary conditions for our desired direction. 8. Equality and diversity employees to work in this independent and driven way. 2016 target Result 2016 2015 2014 Equality: Equality between women/men in management positions (within the range) 45–55% 45/55% 44/56% 41/59% An attractive workplace: The percentage of employees recommending SBAB as an employer (9–10 in the NPS) 40% 43% 37% n/a 30 SBAB Integrated Annual Report 2016 Our responsibility as an employer Inclusive leadership Learning in line with the Our value-driven working approach places major demands on managers to be 70-20-10 model 20% bold and to have a holistic perspective. LEARNING FROM OTHERS By serving as role models, our leads can Network, coaching, build the trust and commitment required mentorship, sponsorship. to help employees act in an independent and driven manner. We use a lighthouse to symbolise our managers’ responsibility. A lighthouse leads the way by setting a 70% 10% good example. Through our behaviour, we DEVELOPMENT IN THE CURRENT ROLE TRAINING send signals to others about how we want Projects, new role, job rotation, Internal courses, external to act and work. To support our managers delegation, more important role. courses, individual studies. and increase leadership skills, we trained all of them in the value-driven working approach and inclusive leadership skills during the year. Inclusive leadership is about participation, trust, responsibility Training and skills development learning and continuous development and clarity as well as equality and diverLearning and development are absolutely are strategically important priorities. sity. The manager serves as a role model, necessary if we are to achieve our ambiOur development efforts are based on establishes targets and frameworks, is tious established targets and attract and the ”70–20–10-model.” Put simply, the clear about expectations but demonretain the best talent. Our HR strategy model means that 70% of an employee’s strates trust by refraining from micromanfocuses strongly on developing a learning learning should come from developing in aging his or her employees. This enables organisation. It is important to ensure that their existing role, 20% from learning from us to increase the pace and enhance our training programmes are relevant others and 10% from traditional training. decisiveness and daily innovation, which in and contribute to business value and the The greatest and most important part of turn enables us to achieve our vision more long-term skills development of all employthis learning is the development that takes quickly. During the year, we worked on ees. Skills are perishable in our changing place on a day-to-day basis and together initiatives such as Leadership Forum and world, which is why the opportunities for with others. Leadership Development Programme. Symbols that inspire and give strength We have developed a number of symbols to breathe life into SBAB’s values. They are practical tools for daily life and symbolise how we are to act in our day-to-day work. The glass of water The helicopter repThe lighthouse repThe door represents The ladder symboThe egg represents represents trust. The resents our ability resents the signals we courage — daring to lises our ability to our approach to glass fills up slowly by to see the bigger send out — that we open unknown doors, take our own initiataking responsibility. our positive actions, picture — lifting up to are all role models try out new pathways tives. Being high up This is constant, whereas water spills get an overview, like and ambassadors. and think innovathis ladder means meaning we also take out when we act a helicopter. tively. taking initiatives and responsibility beyond incorrectly. taking action. Lower our function. down on the ladder are victims, people who complain and wait around. Integrated Annual Report 2016 SBAB 31 Our responsibility as an employer We worked throughout the year to create to as 1:1 meetings. These meetings focus of 2016, 43% of SBAB’s employees were awareness about what a learning organon coaching regading our values, the strongly inclined to recommend SBAB as isation actually entails. In 2016, we held fulfilment of targets and personal develan employer1), which exceeds our target of training sessions to explain what it means opment. 40%. The results of the employee survey to work in line with the 70-20-10 model We have also developed a concept that are discussed and analysed throughout and why it is important for us. By the end will allow us to introduce new employees the entire organisation — from Executive of 2016, around 85% of all employees had to our value-driven work method quickly Management to individual departments taken part in the training. and efficiently. We have named the conand teams. Reflection and feedback are prerequicept “SBAB Boost Camp” — a two-day In addition to our quarterly employee sites for learning and development, which intensive induction programme together survey, we conduct a supplementary explains why regular progress meetings with Executive Management and a numannual Group-wide employee survey in between manager and employee form an ber of dedicated employees. We carried collaboration with the company Great obvious part of our ongoing work. As part out seven Boost Camps during the year, Place to Work. The survey aims to deepen of the value-driven working approach, with plenty of positive feedback from the our understanding of our employee’s satistarget-setting is important for defining participants. faction and how they experience the workand finalising the direction of, and frameplace, based on a number of fundamental work for, future work. For this reason, all Results of employee surveys needs in the areas of trust, pride and employees produce an individual annual One of our aims is for SBAB to be an camaraderie. We want to use the survey plan together with their line manager each attractive workplace. We have chosen to to create a basis for analysis and a more year. The plan is followed up and adjusted define this aim based on a measurement of involved dialogue at departmental and at a minimum of two major progress meeteach individual employee’s inclination to team-level, as well as to establish a clearer ings per year. Furthermore, issues are recommend SBAB as an employer, which understanding of the measures we should discussed on a continuous basis by way we measure on a quarterly basis. In the be focusing on to improve or maintain our of regular individual meetings, referred most recent survey conducted at the end employees’ experiences of SBAB. Engagement with these issues is generally extensive, which is visible in the high response rate in this year’s survey — over 96% of all employees participated in the survey and The management’s commitment, demonstrated by a full 77% agreed with the statement: “All their participation in presentations, activities and the in all, I would say that I have a very good workplace.” banquet, is a clear signal of how important we are as employees and individuals. FOR MORE EMPLOYEE DATA, SEE NOTE 8 AND THE SUSTAINABILITY NOTES. – quote from a participant in the SBAB Boost Camp, our introductory programme for new employees. )1 The number of employees stating 9–10 in the NPS loyalty measurement in response to the query “Would you consider recommending SBAB as an employer?” 32 SBAB Integrated Annual Report 2016 Our responsibility as an employer How we approach equality and diversity SBAB has an equality and diversity policy that emphasises the value of employees VOLUNTEERING with different backgrounds. At our company, all employees naturally must have the same rights, obligations and opportunities in every aspect related to the GIVING VULNERABLE CHILDREN workplace. We want SBAB to be an equal workplace with a high level of integrity A HAPPY SUMMER that encourages difference. We are convinced that a mixture of opinions, talent Since spring 2016, all SBAB employees have been offered the and backgrounds enriches our company. chance to undertake two days of voluntary work per year at These matters are also an important part organisations that reflect our mission — to help improve housof the human rights principles that we have ing quality and household finances. One example is Stockholms undertaken to support within the scope of Stadsmission. the UN Global Compact’s ten principles on corporate social responsibility. You can Together with a number of colleagues from their day-to-day routine. For read more about our equality and diversity from the Stockholm office, Pernilla, a some of the camp participants, it is policy on our website, www.sbab.se. project manager at SBAB, decided the first time they have ever come out One of our targets concerns equality last spring to help Stockholms Stadinto the countryside. Many apply for between men and women in executive smission implement the seasonal a place at the camp, with Stockholms positions. At year-end, 45% (44) were opening of its summer holiday camp, Stadsmission having to turn down over women and 55% (56) were men, which where vulnerable children and families 100 families this year alone. falls within our range of 45–55%. We work get the chance to come and enjoy the For some time now, Pernilla has continuously to achieve our target in this summer. dedicated around half of her working area, including by collaborating with the “Having the ability to dedicate two hours to issues affecting SBAB’s sus“Nyckeltalinstitutet” to obtain an external full working days per year to something tainability initiatives. assessment of our equality initiatives, completely different to what we usually “Imagine if we as a company can requesting equal candidate lists from do is enriching, both for a person indimake the world a little better and more our external recruitment partners when vidually and for the organisation you humane through our commitment and recruiting for managerial positions and key work together with,” says Pernilla. some money. That is the kind of thing specialist roles, and by ensuring that we Stockholms Stadsmission’s holiday that inspires me. When I was given the have clear guidelines in place that help camp is located in a natural beauty privilege of working to promote our our employees combine their work with spot by Lake Mälaren, just outside social commitment, I was naturally parenthood. Strängnäs. Families and children come thrilled.” As of 2016, we have chosen to include to the camp for a much-needed break diversity in our equality plan with the aim of demonstrating that diversity is a highly important priority for SBAB. The term “diversity” entails the targets and activities implemented with the aim of promoting equal rights and opportunities at the workplace, and is thus important in terms of combatting discrimination. Efforts concerning equality and diversity are pursued across every part of SBAB. The HR department is responsible for producing, developing, driving and raising awareness of the equality and diversity plan at a company-wide level. Managers are responsible for driving equality and diversity efforts within their respective areas. Each individual employee has a personal responsibility to get involved in and adhere to the plan and to adopt an equality-driven approach that combats discrimination in day-to-day work. Integrated Annual Report 2016 SBAB 33 Our responsibility as an employer The total level of remuneration is determined based on responsibility, complexity and results within the respective employee’s area, but also on how well the employee is conforming to our values and our value-driven working approach. We apply individual salary-setting in accordance with our collective bargaining agreement, which means that remuneration and salary growth is individual and differentiated. Salary reviews take place annually by way of individual salary interviews, whereby performance in the role and applicable salary criteria are taken into consideration. In addition, we conduct annual salary surveys to ensure the continuation of our successful work to prevent non-objective salary differences and salary discrimination. Should abusive special treatment occur, procedures are in place to launch investigations and take measures. Reports should be submitted to line managers or HR. If the employee belongs to a union, a representative from that organisation is brought into the investigation. No New and introductory work for well-being of our employees. To achieve known cases of workplace discrimination new arrivals a good work environment, we offer all occurred at SBAB in 2016. Since the beginning of 2016, an initiative employees a wellness allowance, healthhas been in place at SBAB that aims to care hours, free gym access and subsiVolunteering opportunities contribute to diversity by working together dised health insurance and medical care. Since spring 2016, all SBAB employees with Arbetsförmedlingen (Sweden’s Public Flexible working hours, reinforced parental have been offered the chance to underEmployment Agency) to offer new and pay and the active prevention of long-term take two days of voluntary work per year introductory work to newly arrived immisick leave in cooperation with occupaat organisations that reflect our mission grants. We are spurred on by the ambition tional health services are other building and operations. Examples of such organito employ more new arrivals to give them blocks of our health-related initiatives. sations include Refugees Welcome, Hello the chance to gain an introduction to SweWorld! and Stockholms Stadsmission. As den’s workplace culture, language and relRemuneration and equal opportunities a company, we contribute through our evant employment. This effort is driven by Our remuneration policy is decided by the employees’ working hours, while employa cross-functional group of employees and Board and covers all SBAB employees, ees contribute through their commitment. managers who work actively to find releregardless of position. In accordance with vant employment within the company. the relevant policy, SBAB’s remuneration During the year, we recruited several is to be competitive, capped and approintroductory workers in both Karlstad and priate, moderate, reasonable, well considStockholm. ered and not salary-leading. It should also contribute to high ethical standards and a Health and fitness at SBAB good corporate culture. The same applies Health is one of the eight pillars of our HR to the benefits we offer — all employees strategy. We work actively to create an are offered the same benefits, regardless inspiring work environment that is adapted of position. to both operational needs and the needs Since 2012, there have been no of our employees. We want our efforts in incentive programmes and no variable this area to lead to a healthy workload, a remuneration to our employees that could high level of satisfaction and a good balhave any significant impact on the SBAB ance in life. In short — we want our work Group’s risk profile. environment to actively contribute to the * The number of employees stating 9–10 in the NPS loyalty measurement in response to the query “Would you consider recommending SBAB as an employer?” 34 SBAB Integrated Annual Report 2016 Mortgage advert, spring 2016 INVITING, CONTEMPORARY MORTGAGE THAT REACH NEW HEIGHTS. Move to us and become one of Sweden’s most satisfied residential mortgage customers. Sustainable housing SUSTAINABLE HOUSING FOCUS AREAS: SUSTAINABLE HOUSING We have extensive experience and knowledge of housing financing. Issues affecting homes and housing are part of SBAB’s DNA. Sweden faces numerous societal chalcustomers to stimulate new housing proand the environment in their properties. In lenges that are economically, socially and duction. Newly built properties are often 2016, we launched a green personal loan, environmentally related to housing and the also more energy-efficient than older the Energy loan. The Energy loan is a perhousing stock. Within the framework of our properties. In 2016, SBAB was involved in sonal loan with an interest rate discount operations, we can contribute by offering the financing of 2,966 new-build homes. available to customers intending to make financing, developing sustainable prodsustainable investments in their homes. ucts and services, distributing knowledge, The development of sustainable prodAt the end of the year, 19 corporate offering financial advice relating to housucts and services and tenant-owners’ association customers ing and household finances and actively Properties, business premises and homes had a green loan with SBAB, correspondcooperating in a development dialogue. account for a major proportion of total ing to a volume of SEK 55 million. At the energy consumption and CO2 emissions, same point in time, 44 retail customers Financing of new housing — good for both in Sweden and around the world. By had an Energy loan with SBAB, corresociety and the environment developing products that give our customsponding to a volume of SEK 4.2 million. Not enough new housing is being built in ers the opportunity and incentive to invest In mid-2016, we became the first bank Sweden. In many major urban areas, and implement measures that improve in Sweden to issue a green bond. A green demand vastly exceeds the supply of housenergy performance and the environment bond means that the funds SBAB receives ing, which is an important contributing in their homes and properties, we can be a from investors are used exclusively to factor to rising housing prices. A low level part of helping create more sustainable finance residential properties that, under of residential construction combined with societal development. We want sustaina specific framework, meet a number of low interest rates has caused rising levels able products and services to help improve energy-efficiency criteria or hold environof household indebtedness. It also preour customers’ household finances, but mental certification. SBAB’s green bond is vents young people from entering the most importantly — we contribute together unsecured, amounts to SEK 2 billion and property market, and those who are not to a better and more sustainable housing has a original maturity of 5 years. already on the housing ladder find it environment. increasingly difficult to purchase their own In 2015, we launched a green loan READ MORE ABOUT GREEN homes. aimed at tenant-owners’ associations BONDS ON PAGE 39. Sweden needs more housing, which and property companies — a loan with a gives us the opportunity to contribute an particularly advantageous interest rate for important societal benefit — financing customers intending to implement meaproperties, whereby we work with our sures that improve energy performance 2016 target Result 2016 2015 2014 Financing of new housing: Contribute to the construction of new housing (number) 1,750 2,966 n/a n/a Retail: Sustainable customer offering (no. of customers) 5,000 1,057 n/a n/a Product development Corporate Clients & TenantOwners’ Associations: Develop 1 1 1 n/a a sustainable offering in 2016 36 SBAB Integrated Annual Report 2016 Sustainable housing Knowledge sharing and advice an industry-wide standard for companies experts that conduct analyses on aspects We have extensive experience and knowlwhose work involves residential mortgages of macroeconomics, savings, household edge of housing financing. Issues affecting to be a positive idea. In total, around finances and other issues related to private homes and housing are part of SBAB’s 370 of SBAB’s 510 employees are to be finances. They serve as SBAB’s spokespeoDNA. To make objective and sound decilicenced, with 116 of those employees ple and work to disseminate information sions, our customers need to understand receiving their licences in 2016. to and share their expertise and skills with the relevant financial issues. In addition to customers, investors, the public and the contact with our customers via the internet Our Chief economist and media. This work is conducted in many or telephone, we attend trade shows, Housing economists ways and through multiple communication arrange seminars and regularly publish SBAB’s Chief economist, Tor Borg, and channels, and all reports and analyses are relevant analyses, surveys and reports that our two Housing economists, Emma Persavailable free of charge at www.sbab.se. contribute to sharing knowledge and raisson and Claudia Wörmann, are financial ing awareness of issues related to housing and household finances. Mortgage licencing Under the EU Mortgage Credit Directive that will be implemented in Sweden in early 2017, the personnel at organisations that offer credit, credit brokering or advisory services in the field of consumer mortgage credits to consumers are required to possess special knowledge and skills. As part of the work with the Mortgage Credit Directive and together with Swedish industry body SwedSec Licensing AB, the Swedish Bankers’ Association has developed a separate competence test for personnel who work with mortgages, which in turns leads to a license to be able to work with mortgages. We consider improved consumer protection in the residential mortgage market to be important, and Our economists are happy to respond to questions and can be followed on Twitter and on www.sbab.se/bloggen. Integrated Annual Report 2016 SBAB 37 Sustainable housing Seminars and trade shows The Almedalen week — a great platform Stockholms Stadsmission SBAB’s Corporate Clients & Tenant-Ownfor dialogues SBAB supports Stockholms S ­ tadsmission ers’ Associations business area regularly During the Almedalen week forum, we in its aim to reduce the acute issue visits trade shows and holds seminars that joined various property companies in semof homelessness by half in the City of are primarily aimed at trustees and board inars and panel discussions. We discussed Stockholm by 2018. representatives from tenant-owners’ assohow various stakeholders — property comciations. panies, public housing companies, poliBoost by FC Rosengård In 2016, we participated in 13 trade ticians, etc. — can cooperate to create a We want to contribute to better social shows to share expertise and experience, better social housing environment, where housing environments in deprived areas. forge new contacts and learn about residents are satisfied and feel safe. For this reason, we have been collaborattrends, as well as gather the sector’s ing with the football club FC Rosengård thoughts about the future. Collaboration and a development since 2015, which runs the labour market We also arranged nine of our own semidialogue project Boost in the Malmö region that nars during the year, whereby experts from Our social responsibility is a clear part aims to help unemployed youth find SBAB or our network are invited to address of our mission. This involves taking social work or begin studying. Employees at topics such as board liability, efficiency responsibility by clearly helping improve SBAB contribute to the content of the measures or new legislation affecting housing quality and household finances in project by teaching and giving lectures tenant-owners’ associations. various different ways. on a number of occasions each year, to increase the understanding of everyday personal finances. Situation Stockholm and Faktum SBAB supports Situation Stockholm with the aim of contributing to an improvement in the housing situation for homeless people in Stockholm. The magazine, which is sold by the homeless, is a societal and cultural magazine whose idea is to attract readers and thereby create work and a personal income for the magazine’s sellers. We also entered into a collaboration in 2016 with Faktum, a similar organisation active in southern Sweden. Hello World! In 2016, we entered into a collaboration with the non-profit organisation Hello World!, whose purpose is to promote children’s and young people’s interest in IT-related education in order to reduce Sweden’s future skills shortage in this area. We arranged a “Hello World! Meetup” during the year, which is an occasion on which children and young people got the chance to start up or proceed further with various types of digital development projects, with the support of coaches from KTH and SBAB’s IT department. There was a great deal of interest, with over one hundred future stars of the digital world spending a Sunday morning at SBAB’s Stockholm office developing different technical solutions together. 38 SBAB Integrated Annual Report 2016 Sustainable housing SUSTAINABLE FINANCING FIRST SWEDISH BANK TO ISSUE A GREEN BOND In 2007, the World Bank issued the framework has been reviewed by the “It is very pleasing to see a world’s first green bond. Since then, the independent climate and environmental global market for green bonds has seen research institute, Center for InterSwedish bank finally getting an explosion in growth. The market dounational Climate and Environmental down to issuing a green bled in size during 2016 alone. A green Research — Oslo (CICERO). SBAB’s bond actually works just like a normal green bond framework can be found on bond. SBAB’s green bond is bond, the exception being that the bond’s our website, www.sbab.se, along with perfectly suited to our expoliquidity is earmarked for environmentally CICERO’s statement. friendly projects. By purchasing green sure in the SPP Grön Obligabonds, investors can thus both directly Green bonds in SBAB’s tionsfond (Green Bond and indirectly invest in projects that are liquidity portfolio sustainable. These efforts ultimately aim SBAB also invests in green bonds. Our Fund). We now hope that to finance a climate-smart transformation liquidity portfolio currently contains more Swedish banks will folof both the economy and wider society. bonds issues by the European Investment Bank (EIB), Nordic Investment Bank low SBAB’s example and How SBAB’s green bond works (NIB), KfW and Kommuninvest. These conduct more green lending The funds we raise through our green bonds finance projects linked to energy bond are used exclusively to finance or efficiency enhancements, for example financed by green bonds.” refinance residential properties that, district heating and additional insulaHelena Lindahl, SPP Storebrand. under a specific framework, meet a tion, as well as projects linked to the number of energy-efficiency criteria development of renewable energy such or hold environmental certification. A as wind power, hydro power and solar framework based on the International energy. The financing of such projects At the end of 2016, our holdings of green Capital Market Association’s (ICMA) contributes to a sustainable, secure and bonds amounted to around SEK 1.4 billion “Green Bond Principles” has been competitive development of Europe’s (0.6) and it is our ambition to increase developed, which sets out the condienergy supply, which in turns contributes these holdings within the framework of the tions for issuing our green bonds and to the EU’s ability to achieve the estabapplicable investment policy. our onward lending of these funds. This lished climate targets for 2020. Integrated Annual Report 2016 SBAB 39 Condensed income statement and balance sheet CONDENSED INCOME STATEMENT AND BALANCE SHEET ADMINISTRATION REPORT CONDENSED INCOME STATEMENT CONDENSED BALANCE SHEET + SBAB’S INCOME SBAB’S ASSETS 2016 2016 SEK million (2015) SEK billion (2015) Net interest income 2,829 Securities (liquidity portfolio) 69 SBAB’s largest and most important revenue item is net interest (2,442) In order to maintain high liquidity, SBAB has various forms of securi(64) income, which comprises the difference between SBAB’s interest ties, mainly in the form of a liquidity portfolio. The liquidity portfolio income and interest expenses. Interest income is primarily from was set up to ensure access to finance at times when SBAB’s normal SBAB’s residential mortgages and housing loans, while interest funding sources are not operating satisfactorily. expenses mainly comprise SBAB’s funding costs. Lending to the public 296 Net commission 7 SBAB’s largest asset item in the balance sheet was Lending to the (297) Net commission mainly comprises income from insurance broking (–102) public. This item comprises residential mortgages and personal and other credit-related fees and funding-related expenses. loans to consumers as well as housing loans to businesses and tenant-owners’ associations. Net result of financial items 48 The net result of financial items arises through SBAB’s application of (1) Lending to credit institutions 2 financial instruments and as a result of accounting valuation effects. For short-term liquidity management, SBAB utilises, inter alia, the (4) repo market to invest or borrow money from other banks. Other income 34 Other income primarily consists of income from the subsidiary Booli (0) Derivatives 6 Search Technologies AB. SBAB utilises various forms of derivatives both on the asset and liabil(7) ity sides to protect the company against undesired changes in interTotal income 2,918 est rates or exchange rates. (2,341) Total assets 375 (375) — SBAB’S EXPENSES SBAB’S LIABILITIES AND EQUITY 2016 2016 SEK million (2015) SEK billion (2015) Expenses 889 Deposits 97 SBAB’s expenses mainly comprise personnel, premises and (809) SBAB’s lending is financed, among other things, by deposits. Depos(77) marketing costs and costs for IT and business development. its refer to consumers, companies or tenant-owners’ associations saving money in SBAB’s savings accounts, in return for interest on Loan losses 18 their savings. Loan losses arise when SBAB’s customers are unable to pay interest (40) and make loan repayments. We always work to minimise loan losses, Liabilities to credit institutions 5 based on our adopted risk tolerance levels. By way of precaution, we See the comment under the post “Lending to credit institutions” above. (5) also prepare for estimated future loan losses through provisions. Issued debt securities (funding) 247 Tax 441 The largest part of SBAB’s lending is funded through borrowing in the (264) Tax consists of income tax of 22% of net profit for the year with an (330) capital market, which is referred to in the balance sheet as issued debt addition for tax adjustments and any adjustments of tax for previous securities. years. Derivatives 3 Total expenses 1,348 See the comment under the item “Derivatives” above. (5) (1,179) Subordinated debt 6 SBAB utilises subordinated debt to strengthen its capital position. The (8) fact that the debt is subordinated means in the event of a bankruptcy, the debt will be realised only when other liabilities have been paid. = NET PROFIT FOR THE YEAR 1,570 Equity 15 (1,162) (12) The net profit for the year comprises total income less total expenses. According to SBAB’s dividend target, at least 40% of profit is distribTotal liabilities and equity 375 uted to owners, which in 2016 corresponded to SEK 628 million. The (375) remaining portion of net profit is returned to equity. 40 SBAB Integrated Annual Report 2016 Consolidated profit CONSOLIDATED PROFIT ADMINISTRATION REPORT SBAB’s business has continued to perform highly favourably. 2016 enters the record books as one of SBAB’s best years ever. Earnings changes as a result of changed credit Loan losses In 2016, SBAB’s operating profit amounted spreads for securities held in the trading For the full-year 2016, loan losses were to a record SEK 2,011 million (1,492), book, compensation for the transfer of SEK 18 million (40), which corresponds primarily attributable to improved net mortgages from the previous partnership to a loan loss ratio of 0.01% (0.01). For a interest income. The return on equity was with Sparbanken Öresund and buyback more detailed account of the Group’s loan 12.3% (10.2), which exceeded our profitexpenses linked to the discontinuation of losses, please refer to Note 10. ability target of 10% by a healthy margin. financing. Other comprehensive income totalled SEK 398 million (187) for the Dividend policy and appropriation of Income year. The increase was due to the positive profits SBAB’s operating income increased to impact on the item of a downturn in long The principle established by the owner is SEK 2,918 million (2,341) and net interest EUR interest rates. that ordinary dividends should be at least income grew to SEK 2,829 million (2,442), 40% of profit for the year after tax, taking mainly due to lower funding costs for Expenses the Group's capital structure into account. borrowing in the capital market and for SBAB’s expenses grew to SEK 889 million The Board proposes a dividend of 40% (0), deposits. Net commission income for the (809). The increase in expenses was due corresponding to SEK 628 million for 2016. period was SEK 7 million (expense: 102) to increased investments in personnel, The proposed appropriation of profits can attributable to the fee to the government regulatory compliance, IT, business develbe found on page 70. stability fund, which was recognised opment and marketing. Personnel costs under net commissions, being replaced amounted to SEK 412 million (376). Other Remuneration during the year by a resolution fee, which expenses exclusive of depreciation, amorThere are no differences between the is recognised in net interest income. The tisation and impairment amounted to SEK proposed guidelines for remuneration and resolution fee was SEK 102 million in 2016. 450 million (402). Depreciation, amortisaother terms of employment for senior execThe net result of financial items measured tion and impairment of PPE and intangible utives to be adopted at the 2017 Annual at fair value was SEK 48 million (1). The assets amounted to SEK 27 million (31). General Meeting compared to the guidedifference between the years was primarThe C/I ratio was 30% (35). lines that applied in 2016. The most recently ily attributable to unrealised market value adopted guidelines are provided in Note 7. OPERATING PROFIT AND RETURN INCOME, EXPENSES AND C/I RATIO LOAN LOSSES ON EQUITY SEK m % SEK m % SEK m 2,500 15 3,000 60 30 2,500 50 20 2,000 12 10 2,000 40 1,500 9 0 1,500 30 1,000 6 –10 1,000 20 –20 500 3 500 10 –30 0 0 0 0 –40 12 13 14 15 16 12 13 14 15 16 12 13 14 15 16 Operating profit, SEK million Income, SEK million C/I ratio, % Return on equity, % Expenses, SEK million Integrated Annual Report 2016 SBAB 41 Consolidated profit Return on equity: Risks and uncertainties We hold an established position in the hold indebtedness result in the economy being sensitive to changes in interest 12.3% Swedish residential mortgage market and rates and housing prices. The risks assoin recent years, we have also strengthened ciated with these factors are expected to our status in the deposits market. The ecoincrease as long as house prices and debt nomic trend in Sweden is the primary risk continue to outpace increases in income. factor for SBAB’s future earnings capacity, The many regulatory changes relating to 2015: 10.2% and the quality of our assets is mainly the residential mortgage market constitute exposed to credit risk in the Swedish another uncertainty factor. housing market. The management of interOn 23 June 2016, a slim majority of est-rate and currency risks also involves British voters passed a referendum saying some exposure to price risks. Retail no to continued membership of the EU C/I ratio: demand is expected to show stable growth (Brexit). Thus far, the outcome of the Brexit over the next few years, underpinned by referendum has had marginal effect on 30% low inflation, low interest rates and rising SBAB, both in terms of market and liquidity stock market and property prices. The risks. The effects are expected to remain Swedish economy is susceptible to global marginal, even if it is not possible to economic developments and conditions exclude longer-term effects. in the international financial markets. The 2015: 35% strained housing market and high house42 SBAB Integrated Annual Report 2016 Consolidated profit Parent Company THE PARENT COMPANY’S OPERATING PROFIT SCBC’S OPERATING PROFIT The operating profit amounted to SEK SEK m SEK m 355 million (loss: 148) for the period. The 600 2,000 change in operating profit was mainly 500 1,500 attributable to an improved net result from 400 financial transactions and higher net inter300 1,000 est income. Net interest income amounted 200 to SEK 326 million (161), driven by lower 100 500 funding costs. Net income from financial transactions amounted to SEK 143 million 0 0 (expense: 76). The increase was mainly –100 attributable to unrealised market value –200 –500 changes as a result of changed credit 12 13 14 15 16 12 13 14 15 16 spreads for securities held in the trading book. Expenses increased to SEK 872 million (810), and were attributable to higher personnel, IT, business development and the lending of the SBAB Group. At yearmissions amounted to an expense of SEK marketing costs. Loan losses dropped to end, SCBC’s lending portfolio amounted 39 million (expense: 106). The majority of SEK 9 million (51). to SEK 244.4 billion (215.8). SCBC’s operthe expenses are attributable to costs for ating profit for 2016 totalled SEK 1,563 operations outsourced to SBAB. SCBC’s AB Sveriges Säkerstallda Obligationer million (1,543). Total operating income total expenses increased during the year (publ) (Swedish Covered Bond rose to SEK 2,292 million (2,158). Net to SEK 720 million (627). Net loan losses Corporation — SCBC) interest income rose to SEK 2,503 million amounted to SEK 9 million (recoveries: SCBC is a wholly-owned subsidiary of (2,280) and the net result from financial 12). SCBC’s Annual Report is published on SBAB whose primary operations comprise transactions decreased to an expense of our website: www.sbab.se. of the issuance of covered bonds to fund SEK 179 million (expense: 16). Net comSTIBOR SBAB PARTICIPATES IN THE CALCULATION OF STIBOR On 26 September 2016, SBAB became the seventh Swedish bank to participate in the calculation of the STIBOR reference rate. STIBOR, the Stockholm Interbank STIBOR banks, are prepared to lend Offered Rate, is a reference rate that to each other without collateral at shows an average of the interest rates different maturities. at which a number of the banks active in the Swedish money market, the STIBOR is probably the most important reference rate in the Swedish financial market and impacts many business agreements. We are pleased and proud to contribute towards a stable and transparent calculation system. – Klas Danielsson, CEO SBAB Integrated Annual Report 2016 SBAB 43 The Retail business area THE RETAIL BUSINESS AREA ADMINISTRATION REPORT The Retail business area offers savings and loan products, and digital home and housing services to consumers. The core product — residential mortgages — is supplemented with personal loans, savings accounts and insurance broking. Since 2014, we have prioritised and focused At year end, the personal loans market Residential mortgages on housing and household finances. In amounted to SEK 215 billion, up 4.4% SBAB’s total lending related to retail 2015, we prepared a new brand platform year-on-year. mortgages decreased by SEK 2.1 billion to and objectives for SBAB, a platform that 209.9 billion (212.0) during the year. At the visualises the way forward toward offering Deposits end of 2016, we had 233,000 residential the best residential mortgages in Sweden Rising incomes and a strong labour marmortgage customers (254,000) distributed and clarifies our position within housing and ket have provided households increased over 149,000 mortgage objects (168,000). housing finances. In 2016, we took addiopportunities to save. At the same time as The market share was 7.23% (7.86) at the tional steps on our journey, including the demand for basic buffer saving remains end of the year, which puts SBAB in fifth launch of new, exciting products and serstrong. Retail deposits in savings accounts place after the four major banks. vices, the acquisition of Booli and increased also continued to increase rapidly in The decrease in total lending, the the focus on lending under our own brand. 2016. At year end, bank retail deposits number of customers and market shares amounted to SEK 1,619 billion, up 8.6% was attributable to the transfer, accordMarket development year-on-year. ing to plan, from SBAB to Swedbank of Residential mortgages the remaining mortgages amounting to Stagnant interest rates and more stringent Organisation approximately SEK 20.5 billion from the repayment requirements from 1 June resulted At the end of 2016, the Retail business previous partnership with Sparbanken in a slower year-on-year growth in the resarea comprised the units Retail, PartnerÖresund in 2016. Excluding the partneridential mortgage market in 2016. Price ships & Business Development unit and ships under discontinuation, the growth increases on the housing market also slowed. Booli. The Retail unit consists in turn of the rate for residential mortgages remained The residential mortgage market in departments: Customer Centre (sales), healthy. New lending amounted to SEK Sweden amounted to SEK 2,902 billion at Market & Digital, PR & Media, Product 47.8 billion (65.4) in 2016. year end, which is 7.6% higher than the and Customer Development. The business SBAB’s residential mortgage stock is previous year end. area has 238 employees and is located in concentrated to the Stockholm and ÖreKarlstad and Stockholm. sund regions, which together account for Personal loans nearly 77% (80). The majority of SBAB’s As in the previous year, growth in the AN ORGANISATIONAL CHANGE residential mortgage customers choose TOOK PLACE DURING THE YEAR. personal loans market was weak in 2016. READ MORE IN NOTE 7. shorter maturities. The share of total CONDENSED INCOME STATEMENT, OPERATING PROFIT AND RETURN ON INCOME, EXPENSES AND C/I RATIO RETAIL EQUITY SEK million 2016 2015 SEK m % SEK m % 2,000 20 2,500 50 Operating income 2,260 1,793 Expenses –705 –622 2,000 40 1,500 15 Net loan losses –13 –23 1,500 30 Operating profit 1,542 1,148 1,000 10 Return on equity, % 14.7 11.5 1,000 20 500 5 500 10 0 0 0 0 14 15 16 14 15 16 Operating profit, SEK million Income, SEK million C/I ratio, % Return on equity, % Expenses, SEK million 44 SBAB Integrated Annual Report 2016 The Retail business area lending with a three-month fixed-interest period amounted to 72.4% (71.8) at the end of 2016. Personal loans A personal loan is a loan without a requirement for collateral. Unlike residential mortgages, personal loans are not connected to any specific purpose, although they are frequently used to supplement residential mortgages in relation to home finance. At the end of the year, the total personal loan volume amounted to SEK 2.0 billion (2.0). At the same date, the market share was 0.93% (1.00). The reduced volume was attributable to a slightly weaker housing market in 2016 compared with 2015, which has given rise to a drop in demand for personal loans to finance home purchases during the year. At 31 December 2016, about 18,000 (17,000) customers had personal loans with SBAB. Savings accounts Our savings accounts offer competitive interest rates, are free of charge, have free withdrawals and are covered by the national deposit guarantee. Retail deposits during the year amounted to SEK 65.5 billion (56.1). At the same date, the market share was 4.05% (3.76). The increase was and home insurance. Mortgage insurance Partnerships due to increased marketing initiatives to insures customers against unemployPart of SBAB’s lending to consumers is position savings products in the market as ment or sick leave, by compensating carried out in partnership with other well as a continuing high level of deposits the monthly cost of the loan. Mortgage participants. At year end, the total volin savings accounts by households. At insurance also means that the borrower’s ume of mediated residential mortgages the end of 2016, approximately 270,000 residential mortgage may be wholly or amounted to SEK 41 billion (82), which is (265,000) retail customers held a savings partially written off in the event of death. equivalent to 20% of SBAB’s total lendaccount with SBAB. Home insurances pay compensation to ing to consumers. Approximately SEK 10 the homeowner in case of damage to the billion of mediated residential mortgages Insurance broking home or house. These products protect were under the SBAB brand. The remainWe offer two insurance products that are our customers, but they also add value der, about SEK 31 billion, were mediated related to residential mortgages and housfor SBAB, as good insurance protection residential mortgages using other brands, ing in different ways: mortgage insurance reduces the risk of loan losses. with SBAB as underlying creditor. VOLUME AND MARKET SHARE, VOLUME AND MARKET SHARE, NEW LENDING AND REDEMPTION, DEPOSITS MORTGAGES RESIDENTIAL MORTGAGES SEK bn % SEK bn % SEK bn 80 6 250 8.0 80 70 60 5 200 7.5 60 40 4 50 150 7.0 20 40 3 100 6.5 0 30 2 –20 20 1 50 6.0 10 –40 0 0 0 5.5 –60 12 13 14 15 16 12 13 14 15 16 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 Deposits, SEK billion Residential mortgage, SEK billion New lending Redemption Total Market share, % Market share, % Integrated Annual Report 2016 SBAB 45 The Retail business area (the value guide) is a quick, easy and free indicator of house and apartment values throughout Sweden and is available on App Store/Google Play and www.sbab.se. In 2016, we launched our first green lending product for consumers in the form of a green personal loan, Energilånet. Work creating greater digital customer and user benefits on issues related to housing and housing finances will continue in 2017. Through increased digitalisation, we can also offer better services, become more cost-efficient and grow at lower marginal costs. Booli In January 2016, we completed the acquisition of Booli. This is a further step in SBAB’s broadening of its housing services — to strengthen our offering to our residential mortgage customers through innovative thinking and smart housing services. Following the acquisition, Booli became a subsidiary of SBAB and operationally is part of the Retail business area. Booli will continue to be run as an independent For some time, we have prioritised new Business Development — continued development unit with a focus on initiating lending under the SBAB brand, where we focus on housing and household the integration of housing data services in believe we can deliver the greatest cusfinances 2017 on www.sbab.se. tomer benefit and build the strongest cusOur strategy involves producing and tomer relationships. As part of this work, offering digital services and products that Loan losses we discontinued certain partnerships help and inform our customers on issues SBAB’s low risk appetite and active manduring the year. In the future, we will priof housing and household finances. Since agement of insolvencies has resulted in low marily focus on partnerships with players 2015, we have offered digital legal serloan losses in recent years. Rising property using digital business models, where we vices via a business partner and a digital prices and low interest rates have contribstill see the potential for major economies notice service via Kivra, a letterbox where uted favourably to low loan losses. Loan of scale. During the year, we initiated two our customers can receive, manage and losses amounted to SEK 13 million (23) in such new partnerships. archive post online. The Värdeguiden app 2016. COMPOSITION OF COLLATERAL IN THE LOAN MARGIN DEVELOPMENT, AVERAGE MORTGAGE RATES PORTFOLIO, RETAIL RESIDENTIAL MORTGAGES SEK billion 2016 2015 2014 % % 1.2 6 Mortgage deeds 107.0 115.4 106.9 5 Tenant-owners’ rights 102.7 96.2 74.3 1.0 Municipal guarantees 4 and direct loans to municipalities 0.3 0.4 0.4 0.8 3 Government guarantees 0 0.0 0.0 2 0.6 Bank guarantees 0 0.0 0.0 1 Other collateral 0 0.0 0.0 0.4 0 Personal loans 1) 2.0 2.0 1.7 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 Total 212.0 214.0 183.4 3-month 2-year 5-year 10-year 1) Unsecured loans to retail customers. 46 SBAB Integrated Annual Report 2016 The Retail business area CHOSEN FIXED-INTEREST PERIOD, GEOGRAPHIC DISTRIBUTION OF THE LOAN RESIDENTIAL MORTGAGES PORTFOLIO % 80 70 60 50 40 30 20 10 0 Stockholm region 64.7% 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 Öresund region 11.9% 3-month 1–4 years 5–10 years Gothenburg region 9.3% University and growth areas 7.8% Other regions 6.3% OUR CUSTOMERS’ STORIES QUICK AND CONVENIENT Stefan Jönsson lives and works in Bromma near Stockholm. He has been a customer with SBAB for some time. “We bought a new flat just a few years ago, and opted for SBAB for the mortgage. But when the second child moved out it simply became too big, whereupon we decided to move to a slightly smaller flat in the same area.” Stefan says he never considered contacting another bank. “My earlier experiences with banks have not been particularly good. An acquaintance suggested I contact SBAB and have been highly satisfied ever since. I like the fact that my dealings with SBAB are based on available facts rather than arbitrary valuations, which can be the case with other banks.” “I also like that I can manage my banking transactions at times that suit me, which is usually after office hours. And that I do not need to be tied to a specific bank branch or banker.” I like that I can manage my banking transactions at times that suit me, which is usually after office hours. – Stefan Jönsson, residential mortgage customer Integrated Annual Report 2016 SBAB 47 Mortgage advert, spring 2016 MORTGAGE WITH FANTASTIC LOCATION. A REAL GEM. Move to us and become one of Sweden’s most satisfied residential mortgage customers. The Corporate Clients & Tenant-Owners’ Associations business area THE CORPORATE CLIENTS & TENANTOWNERS’ ASSOCIATIONS BUSINESS AREA ADMINISTRATION REPORT The Corporate Clients & Tenant-Owners’ Associations business area funds multi-family dwellings. With a flexible organisation and the capacity to manage major projects, we offer services that are characterised by expertise and professionalism. We primarily target major property own51,000 (42,000) apartments began during employees. We have offices in Stockholm, ers, tenant-owners’ associations and conthe year, evenly distributed between Gothenburg and Malmö. The Stockholm struction companies, where our skills and rented properties and tenant-owned office accounts for more than half of our extensive experience of credit granting and apartments, but with regional differences. lending. From these offices, we actively properties make us highly competitive. Our develop the property markets in growth credit granting in the Corporate Clients Tenant-owners’ associations areas south of the Dal River. & Tenant-Owners’ Associations business The market for lending to tenant-owners’ area is concentrated to expansive growth associations grew 7.2% to SEK 416 billion Property financing regions and near our three offices in Stockduring the year. In addition to new conCorporate Clients & Tenant-Owners’ holm, Gothenburg and Malmö, where we struction and renovations, the growth rate Associations finances multi-family dwellcan create the close relationships required in lending to tenant-owner associations ings, both privately owned and owned by to remain competitive and provide our cusis due to reorganisations from rented to tenant-owner associations. The properties tomers with the best possible service. tenant-owned apartments. The number may consist of existing buildings or new of reorganisations declined somewhat in construction, where we mortgage the land Market development 2016 compared with 2015. and the construction, and offer final fundCorporates ing. SBAB’s total lending to corporate cliIn 2016, the transaction volume in the Deposits ents and tenant-owners’ associations Swedish property market was approxiThe market for deposits from corporate amounted to SEK 84.2 billion (83.0) on 31 mately SEK 200 billion (151), according to clients and tenant-owners’ associations December 2016, equivalent to about 28% information from Fastighetsnytt (a leading grew 9.8% in 2016, to SEK 904 billion. The of SBAB’s total lending. Swedish property magazine). Swedish rate of growth was therefore slightly higher We offer funding of up to 75% of a participants were overrepresented and than the previous year, despite falling property’s value. In our credit process, about one third of the transaction volume interest rates. we monitor developments in the property pertained to the housing segment. The new market on a regular basis, and conduct a construction of multi-family dwellings conOrganisation review and risk evaluation of all customer tinued to increase in 2016. It is estimated The Corporate Clients & Tenant-owners’ relationships at least once a year. that the construction of approximately Associations business area has 37 (40) CONDENSED INCOME STATEMENT, OPERATING PROFIT AND RETURN ON INCOME, EXPENSES AND C/I RATIO CORPORATE CLIENTS & TENANT-OWNERS’ EQUITY ASSOCIATIONS SEK m % SEK m % 500 12 750 50 SEK million 2016 2015 Operating income 614 519 400 10 600 40 Expenses –192 –167 300 8 450 30 Loan losses –5 –17 Operating profit 417 335 200 6 300 20 Return on equity, % 8.1 7.9 100 4 150 10 0 2 0 0 14 15 16 14 15 16 Operating profit, SEK million Income, SEK million C/I ratio, % Return on equity, % Expenses, SEK million Integrated Annual Report 2016 SBAB 49 The Corporate Clients & Tenant-Owners’ Associations business area COMPOSITION OF COLLATERAL IN THE LOAN PORTFOLIO, CORPORATE CLIENTS & TENANT-OWNERS’ ASSOCIATIONS SEK billion 2016 2015 2014 Mortgage deeds 82.2 80.1 75.5 Tenant-owners’ rights 0.0 0.0 0.0 Municipal guarantees and direct loans to municipalities 1.1 1.7 2.2 Government guarantees 0.2 0.2 0.3 Bank guarantees 0.0 0.0 0.0 Other collateral 0.7 1.0 0.3 Personal loans 0.0 0.0 0.0 Total 84.2 83.0 78.2 Corporates Tenant-owners’ associations Savings accounts At the end of 2016, our lending to property At the end of 2016, our lending to SBAB also offers competitive terms for companies amounted to SEK 33.5 billion tenant-owners’ associations amounted to deposit accounts for companies and (30.6) and new lending for the period SEK 50.7 billion (52.4) and new lending tenant-owners’ associations. Deposits from amounted to SEK 6.0 billion (7.6). The for the period amounted to SEK 5.0 billion non-financial institutions increased over number of property company customers (6.1). The number of tenant-owners’ associthe year, totalling SEK 31.3 billion (20.6), increased over the year and amounted to ation company customers decreased over and the market share was 3.10% (2.24) 76 (66) at year-end 2016. At the same the year and amounted to 2,162 (2,468) at the end of 2016. At year end, 9,000 date, the market share for lending to propat year-end 2016. At the same date, the corporate clients (8,000) and 4,000 erty companies was 11.07% (10.59). The market share for lending to tenant-owners’ tenant-owners’ associations (2,000) held increase was due to high demand for new associations was 11.22% (13.05). savings accounts with SBAB. housing production. The decrease in lending and market At 31 December 2016, our lending share during the year was a consequence Loan losses to commercial properties amounted to of continued intense competition at low SBAB’s low risk appetite and active manSEK 4.8 billion (4.3). Our primary focus margins among Swedish banks regarding agement of insolvencies has resulted in is on financing of multi-family dwellings. lending to tenant-owners’ associations. low loan losses in recent years. Rising We do not intend to grow our lending The decline in customer numbers was property prices and low interest rates have to commercial properties, but we can primarily attributable to a reduction in the contributed favourably to low loan losses. offer funding if required by the overall number of customers in non-prioritised Loan losses amounted to SEK 5 million (17) business or the customer relationship in locations, in line with SBAB’s strategy of in 2016. individual cases. focused and qualitative credit granting. VOLUME AND MARKET SHARE, VOLUME AND MARKET SHARE, VOLUME AND MARKET SHARE, DEPOSITS TENANT-OWNERS’ ASSOCIATIONS CORPORATES SEK bn % SEK bn % SEK bn % 35 3.5 60 18 40 12 30 3.0 35 11 50 15 30 10 25 2.5 40 12 25 9 20 2.0 30 9 20 8 15 1.5 15 7 20 6 10 1.0 6 10 5 0.5 10 3 5 5 0 0.0 0 0 0 4 12 13 14 15 16 12 13 14 15 16 12 13 14 15 16 Deposits, SEK billion  enant-Owners’ Associations lending, T Corporate lending, SEK bn Market share, % SEK billion Market share, % Market share, % 50 SBAB Integrated Annual Report 2016 The Corporate Clients & Tenant-Owners’ Associations business area NEW LENDING AND REDEMPTION, NEW LENDING AND REDEMPTION, GEOGRAPHIC DISTRIBUTION OF THE LOAN TENANT-OWNERS’ ASSOCIATIONS CORPORATES PORTFOLIO SEK bn SEK bn 20 15 10 10 5 0 0 –5 –10 –10 –15 –20 –20 –30 –25 Stockholm region 51.7% 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 Öresund region 15.4% New lending Redemption Total New lending Redemption Total University and growth areas 15.3% Other regions 9.6% Gothenburg region 8.0% OUR CUSTOMERS’ STORIES INNOVATIVE SOLUTIONS The Vita Örn property company owns, eco-friendly construction. Joakim says manages and develops rental apartthat Vita Örn’s new build “Klyvaren” at ment buildings in the Malmö area. Västra Hamnen in Malmö is Europe’s “As a property company we have a first climate-compensated residential long-term business, which is why it is property with CO2-smart construction, important with a business partner that where the total burden from construcdoes not focus on short-term transtion and operation is essentially carbon actions in its own business. SBAB has neutral. The property has been financed both the commitment and the ability to by SBAB. understand what we want to achieve. “We need a source of financing that Proximity is also something we appreaccepts and understands the way we ciate,” says Joakim Feldt, CEO of Vita operate, and that is not afraid of innoÖrn. vative solutions. SBAB understands and Joakim says he has a background supports our way of working, as they are as a doctor and that this is something willing to finance assets with a long-term that has influenced his view on how to perspective.” develop and manage properties. “Promoting sustainable development “There is value in operating in a more is also about influencing others. We sustainable way. For example, lower want our tenants to contribute themenergy use improves economy over selves to reducing the carbon burden time. Greater satisfaction in residential worldwide. And there is plenty of new areas leads to fewer people choosing technology that can do just this. Our to move. There is a clear business case tenants can, for example, reduce their surrounding these issues, at the same own rent through lower consumption time as it feels right in your heart, which using an individual metering and is also important.” charging technology called IMD. I usuVita Örn wants to serve as a good ally say that it is friendly for both your example with its properties in terms of wallet and the environment.” sustainable property management and Integrated Annual Report 2016 SBAB 51 Funding and liquidity FUNDING AND LIQUIDITY ADMINISTRATION REPORT SBAB’s operations are primarily financed through funding in the capital market, but since 2007, funding is also increasingly raised through deposits from the public. Funding operations Funding Strategy to reduce SBAB’s liquidity and refinancing The SBAB Group is active in both the Through access to stable and competitive risk. We also attach great importance to senior unsecured bond market through the funding, we ensure that SBAB can offer regularly meeting and updating investors Parent Company SBAB, as well as in the lending at attractive terms. in the markets where we operate, primarily covered bond market through the wholly We actively work to diversify our sources in Sweden and Europe. owned subsidiary SCBC. of funding through increased retail and During the year, the SBAB Group corporate deposits. Growing deposit volSenior unsecured funding issued long-term bonds valued at SEK 47.6 umes have in recent years reduced our Long-term funding billion (77.4). SBAB also launched a SEK dependence on capital markets at the SBAB’s business involves financing hous1.5 billion Tier 1 capital transaction to same time as these have provided us with ing, which in turn requires stable long-term meet the growth in lending and to retain a a better and more balanced funding mix. financing. Continued strong deposit strong buffer against internal and external The cornerstones of our funding stratinflows and healthy liquidity contributed to capital requirements. At year end, the egy are to promote diversified borrowing a slight reduction in the need for long-term Group’s total volume of issued debt outand to be a regular issuer in both the senior unsecured funding in 2016. At the standing amounted to SEK 247.4 billion Swedish and European markets. Active end of the year, long-term senior unse(264.2), of which SEK 175.9 billion (187.3) debt management, in part through repurcured funding totalled SEK 71.5 billion was secured debt and SEK 71.5 billion chasing bonds with short remaining matur(76.9). (76.9) unsecured debt. ities, as well as a balanced maturity profile are other key elements, whose main aim is SHORT-TERM FUNDING SOURCES FUNDING SOURCES, FUNDING SOURCES, DISTRIBUTION GROUP BY CURRENCY, GROUP Limit Swedish Commercial Paper Programme (SVCP) SEK 25 billion European Commercial Paper Programme (ECP) EUR 3 billion LONG-TERM FUNDING SOURCES Limit Euro Medium Term Note Programme (EMTN), SBAB EUR 13 billion Euro Medium Term Covered Note Programme (EMTCN), SCBC EUR 16 billion Swedish benchmark covered bonds Swedish covered bond programme, SCBC 29.0% (31.5) SEK 74.6% (74.0) SCBC [No fixed limit] EUR 21.5% (20.0) Deposits 27.6% (22.0) Other currencies 3.7% (5.0) Australian Covered Bond Issuance EMTCN programme SCBC 21.3% (22.2) JPY 0.1% (1.0) Programme, SCBC AUD 4 billion EMTN programme SBAB 17.9% (18.9) ECP 2.5% (2.0) Subordinated loans 1.7% (2.3) Issues on the Japanese market, Samurai bonds 0.0% (1.1) SVCP 0.0% (0.1) USCP 0.0% (0.0) 52 SBAB Integrated Annual Report 2016 Funding and liquidity Short-term funding from other sources is limited or rendered Green bonds in the liquidity portfolio Short-term funding continues to reprematerially more difficult. The size of the At the end of 2016, our holdings in green sent a limited part of our total funding. liquidity portfolio is equivalent to slightly bonds amounted to about SEK 1.4 billion At the end of the year, short-term senior more than a year’s debt maturities. Both (0.6). It is our aim to increase these holdunsecured funding totalled SEK 8.8 billion external regulations and internal limits dicings within the scope of the current invest(7.2). SBAB mainly uses short-term funding tate the size and composition of the liquidment policy. to manage and balance liquidity between ity portfolio. different periods. At the end of 2016, the liquidity portCredit rating folio amounted to SEK 69.3 billion (64.0). During the fourth quarter 2016, the credit Secured funding Securities holdings are limited by asset rating agency Moody’s confirmed SBAB’s Funding through the issue of covered class and by country, respectively, and long-term credit rating of A2 and, concurbonds is carried out by the wholly-owned must have a AAA rating on acquisition. rently, raised the outlook from stable to subsidiary, SCBC. At the end of the year, The average maturity of the portfolio is positive, for reasons including the improvecovered debt outstanding totalled SEK 2.27 years (2.71), with a maximum of ten ments in SBAB’s profitability and financing 175.9 billion (187.3). years for new investments. Investments are structure. For more information, visit our mainly in SEK, EUR and USD and we use website, www.sbab.se. Other credit ratings SCBC in brief derivatives to manage the portfolio’s interwere unchanged during the year. SCBC’s primary operations comprise the est-rate and currency risks. issue of covered bonds in the Swedish and international capital markets. The company’s funding programmes have received the highest possible long-term rating of Aaa from the rating agency Moody’s. OUTSTANDING MATURITY PROFILE, RATING SCBC does not conduct any lending activGROUP Standard ities itself, but instead acquires loans from SEK bn Moody’s & Poor’s SBAB, with the aim that these are included 80 Long-term funding, SBAB A21) A 2) wholly or in part in the cover pool that 70 Long-term funding, SCBC Aaa – serves as collateral for SCBC’s covered 60 Short-term funding, SBAB P–1 A–1 bonds. Information on SCBC’s covered 50 1) Positive outlook bonds and cover pool is published monthly 2) Negative outlook 40 on our website, www.sbab.se. 30 Liquidity portfolio 20 SBAB’s liquidity portfolio has the primary 10 purpose of acting as a provision for situa0 tions when the ability to obtain liquidity 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 25 26 27 31 Integrated Annual Report 2016 SBAB 53 Risk and capital management RISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENT ADMINISTRATION REPORT Risk management involves ensuring that SBAB is resilient in all types of situation and that the company has capital that guarantees that even unexpected risks can be managed. SBAB’s risk management function identioccurs as well as the impact the event The CEO is responsible for ongoing operfies, analyses and prevents various types could have on SBAB’s profit, operations ational management and monitors that of risks in our operations. The main risk is and capital. The risks have, in accordance each unit’s, including the risk control units, credit risk arising from lending and loan with the risk policy, been classified using reporting to the Board of Directors is concommitments, primarily to household a framework known as ”SBAB’s risk appeducted in accordance with the relevant customers. In addition, SBAB is exposed tite”. This includes a definition of the risk instructions. to credit risk in treasury operations, above we are willing to take to achieve our busiThe risk control units within Credit & all the counterparty risk for the derivaness objectives within the framework of our Risk are responsible for the identification, tives and repo contracts we enter into in chosen long-term strategy. quantification, analysis and reporting of order to manage financial risks. Other In SBAB’s risk management, roles and all risks. The Chief Risk Officer ( CRO ) is risks in SBAB’s operations mainly pertain responsibilities is divided in accordance responsible for the independent risk conto market risk, liquidity risk, business risk with the three lines of defence: The Busitrol units within Credit & Risk and reports and operational risk. SBAB retains suffiness that owns and manages risks in daydirectly to the CEO and the Board of cient capital to cover these risks, even in to-day operations; Credit & Risk/CompliDirectors of SBAB. stressed situations. SBAB is currently well ance that governs, monitors and follows capitalised and has own funds that comup; and Internal Audit that assesses on Risk strategy and risk tolerance fortably exceed both the internally estiassignment from the Board of Directors. SBAB is tasked with identifying, measuring, mated need of own funds and the capital READ MORE ABOUT OUR governing, reporting internally and mainrequirement calculated by the FinansinSIGNIFICANT RISKS ON PAGE 57. taining control of the risks to which we are or spektionen. Liquidity risk is not managed may become exposed to. The Board adopts by capital provisions but by maintaining a Risk governance the strategic direction and the overarching liquidity reserve. All measureable risks are monitored and risk level that SBAB is willing to accept, reported to the Board of Directors The based on our business and how value is creSBAB’s risks and how we manage them Board of Directors bears the ultimate ated for our customers. This means SBAB is Risk is defined as a potentially negative responsibility for SBAB’s total risk expoto consciously expose itself only to risks that impact that may arise due to ongoing sure. It is the Board's responsibility to are directly connected to or are regarded or future events. The definition of risk ensure that operations are conducted with as necessary for its operations. includes the probability that an event good internal control. SBAB’s profitability is dependent on its ability to assess, manage and price risks. It is also about maintaining sufficient liquidity and capital to meet unforeseen events. Knowledge and awareness of any risks that SBAB may be exposed to, together with the right expertise to estimate the size of existThe three lines of defence ing and potential risks, is absolutely necessary for our operations. There is an indeThe business Credit & Risk, Compliance Internal audit pendent function for risk control at SBAB Owns and manages risks Controls Reviews on assignment whose principle task is to monitor that risk in day-to-day operations. and follows up. from the Board of Directors. awareness and acceptance are adequate for managing risks on a daily basis. SBAB has a documented process (NPAP) for the approval of new or signifiRISK RISK RISK cantly altered products, services, markets, 1ST LINE 2 ND LINE 3 RD LINE processes and IT-systems. The same process also covers major changes to the 54 SBAB Integrated Annual Report 2016 Risk and capital management company’s organisation and operations. The Board of Directors sets limits for all material risks, which should be commensurate with the pre-determined risk appetite. Risk taking SBAB’s risk taking is kept at a level consistent with our short-term and long-term plans for strategy, capital and financial stability. An important part of SBAB’s business model is that the risks we are exposed are low and predictable. In reality, this does not mean that each individual credit exposure has very low risk, rather that the total lending portfolio consists largely of low-risk loans. And each loans’ internal risk effect is such that the total risk is limited. The basis for SBAB’s appetite for various types of risk is that each risk should fit within a well-defined segment of our risk-bearing capacity. Risk-bearing capacity primarily refers to the capacity to cover expected and unexpected losses by means of our ongoing earnings capacity and own funds. The scope of acceptable risks is clearly linked to how important these are to our business mode, in other words the positive effects anticipated to be achieved in the are expected to correspond to a CET1 provides a comfortable margin to both form of expected revenue, cost savings or capital ratio of not less than 25.4% and a internal targets and external regulatory the mitigation of other risks. SBAB minitotal capital ratio of not less than 35.5% at requirements. Net profit for the year is mises undesired risks through appropriate the end of 2016. included in the calculation of own funds functions, strategies, processes, proceThe CET1 capital ratio was 32.2% and Tier 1 capital. Dividends calculated dures, internal rules, limits and controls. (28.6) at year end. At the same date, the according to SBAB’s dividend policy have total capital ratio was 51.6% (46.8). This been deducted. Capital adequacy In 2016, the Board of Directors adopted new capital targets for SBAB. According to these new targets, under normal conditions, SBAB’s CET1 capital ratio should be at least 1.5 percentage points higher than SBAB’s capital target the CET1 capital requirement communicated by Finansinspektionen. In addition, Total CET1 SEK million capital % capital % under normal conditions, SBAB’s total capital ratio should be at least 1.5 perPillar 1 minimum requirement 3,073 8.0 1,729 4.5 centage points higher than the capital Pillar 2 core requirement 1,937 5.0 1,292 3.4 requirement communicated by FinansinsPillar 2 risk-weight floor, Swedish mortgages 6,531 17.0 4,626 12.0 pektionen. The bank is also tasked with Capital conservation buffer 960 2.5 960 2.5 meeting any other regulatory capital requirements. According to internal estiCountercyclical buffer 571 1.5 571 1.5 mates by SBAB, the new capital targets Internally assessed capital requirement 13,073 34.0 9,178 23.9 SBAB’s capital target 13,649 35.5 9,754 25.4 SBAB’s actual capital 19,833 51.6 12,385 32.2 Integrated Annual Report 2016 SBAB 55 Risk and capital management Change in material risks in 2016 adapted loan repayment rules in line with arrangements for retail banking products, Credit risk Finansinspektionen’s guidelines. which is intended to be implemented from Credit risk declined slightly during the 2017. The process is based on guidelines year as the lending portfolio at the end of Other risk classes from the European Banking Authority 2016 was slightly smaller than the previous At the end of 2016, it became mandatory (EBA), published in March 2016. The year end, due to the discontinuation of the under the European Markets Infrastructure process aims to ensure that the interests, partnership with Sparbanken Öresund. Regulation (EMIR) for credit risk in treasury objectives and characteristics of consumDuring the year, we have also witnessed operations, above all the counterparty ers are taken into account when new proda positive trend for our new lending in risk, for SBAB to clear interest-rate derivaucts are developed or existing products the form of both lower average LTV ratios tives via central counterparties, known as are significantly modified. and debt ratios. The quality of the loan clearing houses. The pace of regulatory change has portfolio has also developed positively Over the year, market risk declined remained high and during the year, in other areas, with a reduction in the due to the liquidity portfolio largely being European authorities and the Basel Comnumber of customers in payment arrears, transferred from reported as the trading mittee presented additional proposals for an increased repayment rate and rising book to the banking book. changes, aimed at increasing transparproperty prices. ency and making credit institutions more Household debt levels are still an Other material events in 2016 resilient to disruptions in the market. Comimportant element in public debate and As part of strengthening SBAB’s risk culprehensive reforms are being drawn up in engage authorities, banks and politicians. ture during the year, the bank has estabthe regulatory framework. However, there To avoid strengthening the trend toward lished risk and compliance coordinators remains an uncertainty about capital conincreasing household debt, SBAB has over (RCCs) in the first line to support the trols and their impact on banks, which is the past two years made credit rules sucbusiness with its task of owning and manwhy it is still too early to express a view on cessively more stringent for new lending. aging its risks. These support the business their impact on SBAB. In order to maintain These measures include a limitation on the managers with a focus on risk managea high degree of risk awareness related to debt ratio, i.e. income in relation to loan, ment, internal controls and regulatory regulatory changes linked to capital adeto six times the gross income for new loans. compliance. quacy, the SBAB Board is being trained in During the year, we have also revised During the year, SBAB has created the risk areas on an ongoing basis. our housing cost calculation upward, instructions and guidelines on prodintroduced detailed income controls and uct oversight and governance (POG) 56 SBAB Integrated Annual Report 2016 Risk and capital management SBAB’s significant risks Risk appetite Risk type Classification Level Risk profile Risk management Credit risk in lending operations The risk that the counterparty does not fulfil its payment obligations Wanted risk Medium SBAB’s customer base is primarily Credit risk is central to SBAB’s business model and it is towards SBAB. Credit risk is defined as the risk of loss due to the customconsumers and tenant-owners’ considered to be the dominant risk in operations. Credit er’s inability to make interest and loan repayments or otherwise fulfil the associations, the majority of which granting in SBAB is characterised by responsible credit loan agreement. Credit risk arises in conjunction with loans and loan are concentrated to major metrogranting taking into account the customer’s long-term commitments, as well as in connection with value changes in pledged colpolitan areas. To a limited extent, repayment capacity and resilience. Credit rules and lateral. The credit risk also includes concentration risk, which refers to the lending takes place for commercial credit management is continuously analysed, processed increase in credit risk that arises in large exposures to individual counterproperties. and improved. Corporate clients are processed individuparties, regions or industries. ally while retail customers are analysed using a structured READ MORE — NOTE 2a. process in conjunction with the credit approval process. Credit risk in treasury operations Defined as the total of investment risk and counterparty risk. CounterNecessary risk Low SBAB’s counterparty credit risks Counterparty-risk exposure is primarily covered through party credit risk is defined as credit risk in financial derivatives that arises and investment risks are low and collateral agreements in which the counterparty provides when the value of the instrument changes resulting from variations, for are not considered dominant risks. collateral in an effort to reduce exposure. Investment risk is example, in interest rates or currency exchange rates, which means SBAB mitigated as SBAB only invests in interest-bearing bonds recognises a receivable against the counterparty. In addition, counterwith AAA credit ratings. party credit risk entails that SBAB’s financial counterparties cannot meet their commitments under the contracted repos. Investment risk is defined as credit risk in financial investments and entails the risk that a debtor does not fulfil its payment obligations, meaning either completes payments late or not at all. Investment risk arises through investments in the liquidity portfolio and the investment of surplus liquidity. READ MORE — NOTE 2b. Market risk The risk of loss or reduced future income due to market fluctuations MarNecessary risk Low SBAB’s market risk is low and is Interest-rate risk is to be mitigated through direct funding ket risk includes interest-rate risk, currency risk, basis risk and spread risk. not considered a dominant risk. or the use of derivatives. Currency risks are mitigated as Currency risk refers to the risk that changes in the exchange rate for SEK funding in international currency is hedged through curagainst other currencies result in losses or lower future income. Interrency swaps or invested in matching currencies. est-rate risk is defined as the risk that variations in interest rates result in losses or lower future income as assets and liabilities have different fixed-interest periods and interest terms. Spread risk refers to an exposure to changing conditions between interest costs for different issuers. Basis risk refers to the risk associated with deposits and lending that are locked to different interest bases. READ MORE — NOTE 2d. Operational risk The risk of losses due to inappropriate or unsuccessful processes, human Necessary risk Low Operational risk is a natural part of Within SBAB, risk management consists of uniform valuaerror, faulty systems or external events, including legal risk The forms of all business. SBAB aims to optimise tion and reporting of operational risk. The analysis of risk operational risk applicable to SBAB are shown in the categorisation of the relationship between costs for levels in all operations is conducted on a regular basis and types of events. Examples of types of events that could be applicable are operational risk and operating reported to the Board, the CEO and the Executive Maninternal and external fraud, work conditions and environment, damage to activities. SBAB considers operaagement. tangible assets, disruptions to the business operations and systems, transtional risk to be a prerequisite for Self-evaluation and incident management are central feaaction management and process control. Legal risk includes the risk that implementing the business concept tures in monitoring processes. agreements or other legal transactions cannot be completed in accorefficiently and competitively, takdance with specific terms and conditions or that judicial proceedings are ing into account operations, stratIn order to identify risks that may arise from changed or started that could have a negative impact on SBAB’s operations. egy, risk appetite and the macro new processes, a new product approval policy (NPAP) is environment. carried out before implementation. READ MORE — NOTE 2e. Business risk The risk of declining earnings due to harsher competition, inappropriate Necessary risk Low SBAB’s business risk is low and is New business is usually relatively similar to the business strategies or erroneous decisions. As the accounting standards used by not considered a dominant risk. SBAB already has. Changes in the form of new products or SBAB require that certain components of the portfolio are measured at new markets may only constitute a small part of SBAB’s market value while other components are recognised at their carrying activities and must be implemented at such a pace that amount, this has impacts on earnings, and consequently also own funds, SBAB does not substantially jeopardise its profit level and that do not correspond to the actual risk to which the portfolio is exposed. with great probability avoids pressure on its own funds. To limit such effects, income volatility is to be measured and limited. The effect on the operating profit/loss arising from READ MORE — NOTE 2f. applied accounting standards is mitigated through limit setting and the greater use of hedge accounting. Liquidity risk The risk that the company will not be able to meet its payment obligations Necessary risk Low SBAB has a low liquidity risk and SBAB’s liquidity strategy includes a proactive and continuon the date of maturity without the related cost increasing significantly. diversified funding. Securities that ous liquidity planning, active debt management and an Short-term liquidity risk measures the risk of being impacted in the short are part of the liquidity reserve adequate liquidity reserve. The funding strategy takes into term by a lack of liquidity, while structural liquidity risk is a measure of the have high credit ratings and are consideration the expected maturity on the asset side. On mismatch between assets and liabilities in terms of maturities, which risks eligible as collateral with either the this basis, SBAB limits its structural liquidity risk by mainleading to a lack of liquidity in the longer term. Riksbank or the European Central taining diversified funding with sufficiently long maturities. READ MORE — NOTE 2g. Bank, to guarantee liquidity. SBAB has several liquidity metrics, for which limits apply, most of which are monitored and reported on a daily basis. Integrated Annual Report 2016 SBAB 57 Statement by the Chairman of the Board THE NEXT GENERATION OF RESIDENTIAL MORTGAGES STATEMENT BY THE CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD Customers’ expectations of banking services have changed in line with rapid digital developments. Banks no longer only compete with each other, but increasingly with other, often smaller and rapidly expanding niche players. The banking and financial sector is curand are fulfilling our financial targets with on new lending under our own brand and rently facing major challenges, which a comfortable margin, both in terms of on ensuring that it is SBAB, and not any represent enormous opportunities if they profitability and capitalisation. It also gives other supplier, who will own the customer are met and managed in the right way. We me pleasure to note that the Board of relationship in the future. The Board of live in an era where customers are placing Directors for 2016 proposes a dividend of Directors and I are of the firm opinion that ever-greater demands on transparency 40%, corresponding to SEK 628 million, to SBAB is well-equipped to work towards and accessibility, while also expecting a our owner, the Swedish state. our goal and our vision — to offer the best high-quality customer experience and Thanks to its decision taken in 2014 to residential mortgages in Sweden. interaction. Digitalisation, new regulations focus fully on residential mortgages and and new players are speeding up develhousing financing, SBAB has claimed its Charting the right course in opments. Simply offering a good-value place in tomorrow’s banking and finana changeable world banking service will no longer be sufficient. cial market. This market requires focus Much of 2016 focused on the US presiInstead, it is a matter of establishing loyal and precision to become the best and dential election, refugee policy, the war customers who choose SBAB’s products gain customers’ confidence. During the in Syria and the UK’s decision to leave and services because the user-friendliness year, we continued our strategic transithe European Union, but also on negative and customer experience are better than tion towards housing, which includes an interest rates, the repayment requirement, other market options. At the same time, expanded product and service offering households’ growing indebtedness and a the regulations controlling and influencing linked to housing and household finances. continued notable rise in housing prices. our operations are becoming more numerOne initiative related to this is the acquiGood corporate governance is key to ous and extensive in their formulation. sition of Booli. It is important for us to ensuring that SBAB is managed in a qualcontinue investing in the development of itative and effective manner. This is perWe have a firm strategy our offering and in our ability to deliver haps even more important in the changeWe are able to report very strong earnhigh-quality customer experiences. In line able world in which we live today. SBAB’s ings for the full-year 2016. For the third with our plan, we wound up certain resicorporate governance structure supports consecutive year, we have Sweden’s most dential mortgage brokering partnerships the Board of Directors in obtaining necsatisfied residential mortgage customers during the year with the aim of focusing essary information, governing and con58 SBAB Integrated Annual Report 2016 Statement by the Chairman of the Board trolling operations and in taking necessary during the year, resulting in minor loan overall targets that can be followed up decisions on important strategic issues. losses and good credit quality. directly, and it follows up and evaluates The Board’s work during the year The Board took the decision during the SBAB’s sustainability work on an annual was characterised by a greater focus on year to begin work on replacing SBAB’s basis. In late 2016, a new stakeholder governance, internal control and comentire IT base system structure over a threeand materiality analysis was initiated that pliance, which are all fundamental if we year period. If SBAB is to offer the best aims to ensure SBAB focuses on the right are to achieve our ambitious targets and residential mortgages in Sweden, we need strategic issues in relation to sustainability ensure that our owner, public authorities, to be quick-footed and innovative in our — for us, our stakeholders and for society investors, customers and the general pubwork and in our processes, which requires at large. lic all have confidence in SBAB. In 2016, modern and flexible system support. the Board decided new capital targets A heartfelt thank you for SBAB, which entail that under normal Continued focus on sustainability On behalf of the Board of Directors, conditions, SBAB’s Common Equity Tier 1 As part of our efforts to create a sustainI would like to take this opportunity to (CET1) capital ratio should be at least 1.5 able society, the business community, express our deep appreciation to SBAB’s percentage points higher than the CET1 including SBAB, has a decisive role to play. employees and managers, and it is with capital requirement communicated by SBAB’s Board of Directors has adopted a confidence that I look forward to an excitFinansinspektionen. policy for sustainable business that forms ing and challenging 2017. To tackle households’ growing indebtthe basis of a common approach to our edness and rising property prices, Financontribution to sustainable developments Solna, March 2017 sinspektionen introduced a mandatory in society. The Board and I share the ambirepayment requirement during the year. tion to continue the implementation of There are currently intense discussions sustainability aspects in all parts of SBAB’s under way about further regulation. The operations. For us, sustainability is a matimportance of responsible credit granting ter of sound finances, responsibility and Bo Magnusson is becoming increasingly apparent and led transparency as well as sustainable housChairman of the Board to us tightening our credit granting further ing. The Board of Directors has adopted Integrated Annual Report 2016 SBAB 59 Corporate Governance Report CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT SBAB is a Swedish public limited banking company that is wholly owned by the Swedish state. SBAB is domiciled in Solna. Owner governance of SBAB is exercised through general shareholder meetings, the Board of Directors and the CEO in accordance with the Companies Act, the Articles of Association, and the policies and instructions adopted by SBAB. The Corporate Governance Report has been prepared pursuant to the regulations covering corporate governance reports in the Swedish Corporate Governance Code (the Code) and the Annual Accounts Act. This Corporate Governance Report has the public shall be invited to attend notice of the extraordinary general meetbeen subject to a statutory review by the the AGM. As a summons is sent to the ing that will address amendments to the company’s auditor. Central Bureau of the Swedish Riksdag Articles of Association is to be issued not (parliament), members of parliament earlier than six weeks and not later than The foundation of SBAB’s corporate also have the opportunity to attend. four weeks prior to the meeting. governance Well-functioning corporate governance, • Code rules 1.4 and 2 — the establishA General meeting of shareholders ment of a nomination committee responrisk management and internal governance sible for matters such as the appointment SBAB’s Annual General Meeting was held are essential for SBAB to reach set targets and remuneration of the Board of Direcon 28 April 2016. The AGM was open and gain the confidence of its stakeholders. tors and the auditor. The reason for the and the members of parliament and the In addition to corporate governance in the deviation is that nomination matters in general public were invited to attend. The traditional sense, which describes the sysstate-owned companies are handled by owner was represented by Linda Sundberg tem by which a company is governed and the government in the manner described from the Swedish Ministry of Enterprise controlled, SBAB’s vision, mission, business in the state’s ownership policy. and Innovation. Most of SBAB’s Board idea and values are important elements in members, the CEO and SBAB’s auditor SBAB’s governance model. As well as infor• Code rules 2.6, 4.4, 4.5, 4.6 and 10.2 also attended the AGM. Bo Magnusson, mation transparency, corporate culture, — information to be provided concernChairman of the Board of SBAB, served leadership and the long-term sustainable ing the independence of Board memas the Chairman of the AGM. The AGM conduct of operations. This, together with bers in relation to major shareholders. re-elected Board members Bo Magnusson corporate governance, means that we No such information is provided since (who was also elected Chairman), Jakob can maintain a high level of confidence in the primary objective of the Code rules Grinbaum (who was also elected Vice SBAB’s operations. Confidence forms the in question is to protect minority shareChairman), Carl-Henrik Borg, Lars Borjesbasis of all banking operations. holders in companies with dispersed son, Ebba Lindsö, Jane Lundgren-Ericsson ownership. Consequently, there is no and Karin Moberg. Daniel Kristiansson was Application reason for such information concernelected as a new Board Member. SBAB does not apply some of the rules of ing independence to be disclosed in The AGM passed resolutions regarding the Code that are specifically aimed at entirely state-owned companies. the discharge from liability for the Board of companies with more than one owner. Directors and the CEO, the appropriation This is because SBAB is wholly owned by Articles of Association of profits and the adoption of the annual the state and on these points it follows the SBAB’s Articles of Association regulate accounts for 2015. The meeting elected state’s ownership policy. matters such as the company’s business Deloitte AB, with Patrick Honeth as the objectives. The Articles of Association do auditor-in-charge, as SBAB’s auditor until Based on this ownership structure, devinot include any stipulations regulating the close of the 2017 AGM . The meeting ations have occurred from the following the appointment or dismissal of Board reviewed the guidelines for remuneraCode rules: members, with the exception of stipulations tion to senior executives adopted by the stating that the AGM is to appoint the • Code rule 1.1 — publication of inforChairman of the Board and determine the 2015 AGM, see Note 7 for details of the guidelines, and adopted new guidelines mation regarding the shareholders’ minimum and maximum number of Board for remuneration to senior executives. right to propose business for the Annual members. It is further stated that if the The meeting also decided on the fees to General Meeting (AGM). The purpose Chairman of the Board resigns from his or be paid to the members of the Board. No of this rule is to give shareholders the her office during the mandate period, the fees will be paid to Board members who opportunity to prepare ahead of time for Board is to appoint one of the Board memare either employed by the Government the AGM and have matters included in bers as the new Chairman until the end of Offices of Sweden or are employee repthe agenda for the AGM. In companies the AGM, when a new Chairman will be resentatives. The CEO and Chairman entirely owned by the Swedish state, in elected by the AGM. For amendments to reported on the operations of the bank and accordance with the owner's guidelines, be made to the Articles of Association, the the work of the Board of Directors in 2015. 60 SBAB Integrated Annual Report 2016 Corporate Governance Report OVERVIEW, 31 DECEMBER 2016 A GENERAL MEETING OF SHAREHOLDERS The General meeting is SBAB’s highest governing K EXTERNAL AUDITOR body where the shareholder exercises its decision-making authority. The auditor examines the Annual Report, the consolidated financial statements and the accounting records, as well as the Board’s and the CEO’s administration of B BOARD OF DIRECTORS the company. The Board of Directors is ultimately responsible for SBAB’s organisation and management. C AUDIT AND D E RISK AND F REMUNERATION CREDIT COMMITTEE COMPLIANCE COMMITTEE CAPITAL COMMITTEE COMMITTEE The Audit and Compliance The Credit Committee’s The Risk and Capital ComThe Remuneration CommitCommittee’s principal task is principal task is to decide on mittee’s principal task is to tee’s main task is to prepare to examine SBAB’s control loans and credit limits. prepare issues within the risk matters regarding the princimechanisms, the internal and capital area. ples for remuneration and controls and the financial other employment terms and information. conditions for senior executives. G CEO 1) J INTERNAL AUDIT The CEO is responsible for the ongoing management of the operations of SBAB. The internal audit is the Board’s audit function. H COMPLIANCE I CREDIT & RISK 1) Compliance ensures that operaRisk control, which is organisationally tions are conducted in accordance part of the Credit & Risk unit, analywith laws and regulations. ses and controls SBAB’s overall risks. ACCOUNTING CORPORATE SUSTAINABLE RETAIL OPERATIONS 1) IT 1) HR 1) & TREASURY1) & TENANTBUSINESS OWNERS’ ASSOCIATIONS1) Retail market 1) Partnerships & Business Development1) 1) Included in Executive Management. Integrated Annual Report 2016 SBAB 61 Corporate Governance Report B The Board of Directors the senior executives should take into of SBAB’s operations. The Board is also Composition and nomination procedure account the individual’s skills, experience, assigned with appointing, evaluating and, In entirely state-owned companies, unireputation and judgment. if the need arises, dismissing the CEO. The form and shared principles are applied to work of the Board complies with the formal achieve a structured nomination process Chairman of the Board work plan adopted annually at the Board for the appointment of board members in The Chairman of the Board is elected by of Directors’ statutory Board meeting state-owned companies. The objective is the AGM. If the Chairman of the Board immediately after the AGM. to ensure an adequate supply of comperesigns during the mandate period, the The formal work plan regulates decitence for the boards of directors of these Board is to appoint one of the Board memsion-making within SBAB, the arrangecompanies. The Board nomination process bers as the new Chairman until the end of ments for Board meetings and the division is coordinated by the Swedish Ministry of the AGM, when a new Chairman will be of work among the Board, the Chairman Enterprise and Innovation. For each comelected by the AGM. The Chairman leads of the Board and the Board committees. pany, competence needs are analysed the Board’s work, monitors to ensure that The work of the Board complies with an on the basis of the company’s business, the Board is performing its duties, repannual plan that satisfies, inter alia, the circumstances and future challenges, resents the Board in relation to the owner Board’s need for information. SBAB’s as well as the composition of the Board and maintains contact with the owner. The Board makes decisions on matters relating of Directors and the Board assessments Chairman is also responsible for initiating to SBAB’s strategic direction, for example that have been conducted. Recruitment the annual evaluation of the Board’s and by means of a business plan, and makes requirements are then established and the CEO’s work. The Chairman of the decisions regarding larger investments, work commences. Members are selected Board ensures that the Board receives funding, capitalisation (including capital from a broad recruitment base in order to adequate information and decision data and liquidity adequacy assessments), sigdraw on the expertise of both women and for its work and the training necessary for nificant organisational issues, policies and men, as well as individuals with different the Board to function efficiently. certain guidelines. backgrounds and experience. The Board addresses and determines Board governance and activities the company’s interim reports. The Board Diversity and eligibility policies SBAB’s Board comprises eight members also follows up SBAB’s risks, compliance, The Board has adopted a policy on diverelected by the AGM and two members and reports on the effectiveness of internal sity in the Board and a policy on eligibility appointed by the employees’ organisacontrol within SBAB by means of reports assessments for Board members, the tions, SACO and the Financial Sector provided by SBAB’s independent Risk CEO and senior executives. The diversity Union of Sweden. The CEO is not a memControl, Compliance and Internal Audit policy includes statements to the effect ber of the Board. None of the board memunits. The Board also receives reports from that the composition of the Board should bers or the CEO hold shares or financial SBAB’s auditor regarding the reporting of be such that a balance is achieved with instruments issued by SBAB. completed audits, and financial reporting regard to background, areas of comThe Board adopts business objectives assessments and internal control. The petence, experience and gender. The and strategies for SBAB’s operations. The CEO attends the meetings of the Board eligibility policy states that the eligibility Board ensures that an efficient system of Directors, and other SBAB officers may assessment of the Board, the CEO and is in place for the follow-up and control participate in a reporting role if necessary. Work of the Board of Directors in 2016 In 2016, the Board of Directors held nine board meetings, of which eight were scheduled board meetings and one was an extraordinary board meeting. JANUARY FEBRUARY MARCH APRIL MAY JUNE The Annual Report and Sustainability Extraordinary Board Meeting Report for 2015, matters prior to Resolutions regarding organiSBAB’s AGM, decisions regarding sational and management SBAB’s internal capital and liquidity matters. adequacy assessment. Strategy meeting with a presentation and focus on the Payment Services Directive and Fintech, resoluPerformance in 2015 and adoption of the year-end tion on investment in the IT system report, discussion about issues concerning internal and review of material risks in governance and control, reporting from Compliance, Statutory board meeting, resolutions regarding goverSBAB. Risk Control, Internal Audit, resolution regarding the nance documents and statutory matters, performance assumptions for the internal capital and liquidity adein the first quarter of 2016 and adoption of the interim quacy assessment. On this occasion, the auditor also report, the control functions’ reports for the first quarreported on the review of the end-of-year accounts. ter, a review of the inventory of conflicts of interest. Decision also taken on issue concerning eligibility assessments of new Board members. 62 SBAB Integrated Annual Report 2016 Corporate Governance Report The Board’s committees and monitor the auditor’s impartiality and D Credit Committee The Board has established the following independence. Annual plans and reports The principal task of the Credit Committee committees to prepare matters ahead of from Internal Audit and Compliance are is to decide on loans and credit limits in the Board’s decisions. also addressed by the Audit and ComSBAB’s lending and funding operations. pliance Committee in preparation for The Credit Committee also has the task C Audit and Compliance Committee decision by or for presentation to the Board of preparing matters involving changes in The Audit and Compliance Committee of Directors. The Audit and Compliance the credit policy and credit instructions for is SBAB’s Audit Committee and its main Committee comprises three Board memdecision by the Board, the assessment of task is to examine the SBAB Group’s govbers. The Committee’s assignment has portfolio strategies, the transparency of ernance, internal controls and financial been adapted over the years to new rules the loan portfolio, the evaluation of existinformation and to prepare issues in these concerning the Audit Committee’s assigning or proposed portfolio strategies, the areas for decision by the Board. This is ment, which came into force during the evaluation of existing or new delegation done at the request of the owner and on year as a result of the EU’s audit package. rights and the Board’s annual review of the basis of the applicable regulations. The regulatory frameworks, models for grantCommittee is also responsible for monitorFollowing the statutory Board meeting in ing credits and outcomes in terms of retail ing financial statements and the efficiency 2016, the members of the Audit and Comcredit granting. The Committee prepares of risk management and of the work carried pliance Committee are: all matters relating to credit risk and out by Compliance and Internal Audit. • Karin Moberg (Chairperson) approves new IRB models and significant Moreover, the Committee is responsible for evaluating external auditing work, inform• Daniel Kristiansson changes to existing models. The Committee consists of at least ing the owner of the results of this work and • Bo Magnusson three Board members. assisting in the drafting of proposals for The Audit and Compliance Committee auditors. The Committee is also to review held five meetings during the year. Risk and Audit and ATTENDANCE OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS Board of Credit Capital Compliance Remuneration IN 2016 Board members Directors Committee Committee Committee Committee The table presents the meeting attendance Bo Magnusson 9/9 13/17* – 5/5 4/4 of the Board and its committees in 2016 by Jakob Grinbaum 8/9 15/17* 5/5 – – those who were members of the Board as of CarlHenrik Borg 9/9 – – – – 31 December 2016. Three members, Daniel Lars Börjesson 9/9 3/17 – – – Kristiansson, Johan Eriksson and Kristina Ljung, joined the Board of Directors during Daniel Kristiansson 6/9* – – 3/5* – the year, so their attendance refers to part Johan Eriksson 6/9* – – – – of the year. Attendance of the Credit ComEbba Lindsö 9/9 – 5/5 – – mittee for Bo Magnusson and Lars Börjesson Jane Lundgren-Ericsson 9/9 17/17 3/5 – – refers to part of the year. Kristina Ekengren Karin Moberg 8/9 – 5/5 – has been a member of the Remuneration Kristina Ljung 6/9* – – – – Committee in addition to Bo Magnusson. However, she stepped down from the Board * Pertains to part of the year in conjunction with the 2016 AGM. JULY AUGUST SEPTEMBER OCTOBER NOVEMBER DECEMBER Performance in the second quarter and adoption of the interim Performance in the third quarter, report, reporting from Compliadoption of the interim report, ance and Internal Audit. The audireporting from Compliance, Risk tor's review of the second quarter Control and Internal Audit. Adoption of the 2017 business plan and budaccounts. get, adoption of annual plans for the control functions review and discussion regarding an evaluation of the Board’s work. The evaluaPresentation of blockchain technology, review of tion was conducted with the assistance of an the overriding conditions for the 2016 business external party by way of a questionnaire that plan as well as a presentation from SBAB’s Cuswas then compiled, the result of which was tomer Centre and other operations in Karlstad, discussed by the Board at the board meetwhere the meeting was held. ings. On the same occasion, the Board of Directors resolved on measures arising from the evaluation. Integrated Annual Report 2016 SBAB 63 Corporate Governance Report Following a change in the composition of G CEO and Executive Management and activities. The Executive Management the Committee on 1 October 2016, the The Board has formulated instructions for presents the company’s strategic business members of the Committee are: the CEO’s work. The CEO is responsible for plan, including its aims, direction and objec• Jane Lundgren-Ericsson (Chairperson) the ongoing management of the operations tives for sustainability efforts, in conjunction • Lars Börjesson in accordance with guidelines, established policies and instructions issued by the with deciding the business plan and budget. SBAB has a Sustainability Council and a • Jakob Grinbaum Board. The CEO reports to the Board. ExecSustainability Forum that meet regularly to utive Management provides the CEO with thereby optimise the integration and focus Bo Magnusson was a member and Chairsupport in exercising operational manageof sustainability efforts. The Sustainability man of the committee until 30 September ment of SBAB. Council comprises the Executive Manage2016, when he was replaced by Lars In addition to the CEO, the following ment and the Head of Sustainability (who Börjesson. The Credit Committee held 17 positions are included in SBAB’s Executive convenes the meetings), and has been meetings during the year. Management: CFO, COO, CIO, CRO, tasked with guiding SBAB’s sustainability Head of HR, Head of Retail Market, Head efforts. The Sustainability Council takes E Risk and Capital Committee of Partnerships & Business Development, decisions on priorities and strategic direcThe Risk and Capital Committee prepares Head of Corporate Clients & Tenant-Owntion in accordance with the decided busimatters concerning SBAB’s treasury operers’ Associations. ness strategy. ations, matters related to risk and capital The Sustainability Forum is a working and the use of new financial instruments. The CEO’s councils and committees group tasked primarily with evaluating and The Committee also prepares issues The CEO has appointed a number of prioritising larger and more significant ideas for resolution by the Board of Directors councils and committees within SBAB to pertaining to sustainability. The group is concerning objectives, strategies and support him in his work in the management cross-functional. The efforts of the Sustaincontrol documents within the areas of risk of the operations. These are tasked with ability Forum and the Sustainability Council and capital. The Committee consists of preparing issues for the CEO, either prior at SBAB are supported by SBAB’s overriding at least three members appointed by the to his decisions or his recommendations on business plan, current materiality analysis Board. The Risk and Capital Committee is matters to be determined by the Board. and the prioritised sustainability aspects. the statutory Risk Committee of the SBAB These established councils and commitThe objectives within sustainable busiGroup. tees are the Marketing Council, the Price ness are measured and reported to the Council, the Sustainability Council, ALCO CEO and the Board quarterly. The actual The members of the Committee following (Asset and Liability Committee), the Credit work takes place within the organisation, the statutory meeting in 2016 are: Council and the Forum for Matters of Prinwhere the operation-specific expertise • Jakob Grinbaum (Chairman) ciple. The Marketing Council prepares marexists. Based on the company-wide objec• Ebba Lindsö keting-related matters, the Price Council tives, operational objectives and activities • Jane Lundgren-Ericsson prepares matters related to the pricing of SBAB’s products, the Sustainability Council are identified and integrated into the business plans of each unit, thereby contributing prepares and coordinates issues related to meeting the overarching objectives for The Risk and Capital Committee held five to sustainability, ALCO prepares issues sustainable business. meetings during the year. related to the Group’s financial operations, balance-sheet risks and capital issues, the Remuneration of the Board of Directors F Remuneration Committee Credit Council prepares and has a certain and senior executives The principal task of the Remuneration scope to make decisions on matters conInformation regarding the remuneration Committee is to prepare issues regarding nected to SBAB’s credit operations and of the Board, the CEO and Executive principles for remuneration and other limits for the financial operations, and the Management is presented in Note 7 to the employment terms and conditions for Forum for Matters of Principle coordinates annual accounts. senior executives for resolution by the and makes proposals on the Group’s more Board. The Committee also prepares important standpoints. Internal control and governance matters pertaining to SBAB’s remuneraInternal control is important for ensuring tion system ahead of Board decisions. The Governance of sustainable business that SBAB’s operations are conducted in Committee follows up remuneration strucWithin SBAB, the Board is ultimately responaccordance with prevailing regulations, tures and remuneration levels within SBAB. sible for ensuring that proactive, long-term as well as ensuring that SBAB identifies, efforts to achieve sustainable development measures and controls relevant risks and has Following the statutory Board meeting in are carried out within the company. The an efficient organisation and operational 2016, the members of the Remuneration Board also adopts a strategy, objectives management, and reliable financial reportCommittee are: and a policy for sustainable business. Furing. The Board and the CEO are ultimately • Bo Magnusson (Chairman) thermore, the Board monitors and assesses responsible for ensuring good internal • Daniel Kristiansson SBAB’s sustainability efforts. control and governance. The Board and The Sustainable Business function is the CEO of SBAB are assisted in this work The Remuneration Committee held four responsible for developing a company-wide by several functions. Key control functions meetings during the year. business plan for SBAB’s sustainability in this regard are the Compliance, Risk agenda, including a strategy, objectives Control and Internal Audit functions, which 64 SBAB Integrated Annual Report 2016 Corporate Governance Report are described in further detail below. Other to review and regularly assess the reliability The control environment functions, including Accounting, Credit and quality of the work conducted in other The internal control of financial reporting and Legal, support the Board and the CEO control functions in SBAB. All reporting is uses SBAB’s values, organisational strucwith regard to good internal governance conducted in accordance with a reporting ture, codes of conduct, policies, instructions and control. All managers in each area of and meeting plan. and directions for SBAB’s operations as its responsibility are responsible for the activstarting point. ities they oversee being conducted with K External auditor good internal governance and control. The AGM appoints auditors. SBAB’s Audit Risk assessment and Compliance Committee evaluates the Each unit within SBAB identifies, evaluH Compliance contribution of the auditor and assists the ates, manages and assesses its own risks. SBAB has a central Compliance funcowner in preparing motions for the auditor. The analysis of risk levels in all operations, tion. The Compliance function’s area of Officials at the Government Offices of Sweincluding financial reporting, is conducted responsibility comprises rules on internal den monitor all stages of the procurement on a regular basis and reported to the governance and control, customer proprocess from tendering criteria to selection Executive Management, the CEO and the tection and market conduct. Compliance and evaluation. At the AGM, the owner Board. is independent of the business operations appoints the auditor or the accounting firm Each year, a risk assessment is perand is directly subordinate to the CEO. that is commissioned to audit SBAB. Audiformed in the form of a self-evaluation of Compliance provides advice and support tors must be authorised public accountants all business-support processes, including to the operations on compliance matters, or an authorised accounting firm with an financial reporting, and is managed and analyses compliance risks and monitors regauditor-in-charge. As of 2011, SBAB’s audireported using separate risk tools. In relation ulatory compliance in respect of operations tor is appointed annually in accordance with to changes related to financial reporting, a requiring licences. Reporting occurs on an the Companies Act and the Articles of Assonew product approval policy (NPAP) is also ongoing basis to the CEO and quarterly by ciation. For the period until the 2016 AGM, carried out. means of a written report to the Board and KPMG AB was auditor with Anders Tagde as the CEO. The scope and focus of the work of auditor-in-charge. The 2016 AGM elected Control activities Compliance is established in an annual plan Deloitte AB as auditor, with Patrick Honeth Business-support processes that provide adopted by the Board. as the auditor-in-charge. A more detailed data for the financial statements are presentation of the auditor, the auditorcharted and contain control activities in the I Risk Control in-charge and the fees and expenses paid form of descriptions of processes, reasonThe SBAB Group has a central Risk Control to auditors is provided in Note 8 of the ability assessments, reconciliations, attestadepartment with overall responsibility for Annual Report. The auditor examines the tions and performance analyses. An internal developing and ensuring that risk-taking Annual Report, the consolidated financial set of rules, including accounting policies, strategies are conducted in accordance statements and the accounting records, as planning and reporting procedures, ensures with the Board’s intention, and that policies well as the Board’s and the CEO’s adminthe application of control activities. and processes facilitate relevant follow-up. istration of the company. In addition, the SBAB’s financial position and perforRisk Control is responsible for the identificaauditor reviews SBAB’s interim reports and mance, target attainment and analysis of tion, quantification, analysis and reporting year-end reports and presents his findings operations is reported on a monthly basis of all risks. The CRO is responsible for Risk to the Audit and Compliance Committee at to both the Executive Management and the Control. The CRO is directly subordinate to regular meetings of the Committee, when Board. The Board’s Audit and Compliance the CEO and reports to the Board and CEO the interim and year-end reports reviewed Committee supervises the financial reportof SBAB. Risk Control is to ensure that risk by the auditor are considered, and when ing as well as the effectiveness of internal awareness and acceptance are sufficient the internal control review is reported to the control. to be able to manage risks on a daily basis. Board. The auditor also reviews the SustainRisk Control also has a supportive role and ability Report and the Communication on Information and communication works to ensure that the operations have the Progress (COP). The Economy and Finance unit ensures that requisite procedures, systems and tools for the instructions on accounting and financial daily management of risks, thereby ensuring Internal Control of Financial Reporting reporting are updated, communicated that operations comply with the applicable At SBAB, the internal control of financial and made available for the units that need laws and regulations in risk control’s sphere reporting is primarily aimed at ensuring them for their work. The instructions are also of responsibility. that an effective and reliable procedure for available on SBAB’s intranet. SBAB’s financial reporting is in place, and J Internal audit that both internal and external reporting is Follow-up SBAB’s Internal Audit unit constitutes correct and accurate. Work with the internal The Board’s measures to follow up on an internal independent audit function. control of financial reporting is based on the the internal control of financial reporting Accordingly, the main function of the InterCommittee of Sponsoring Organizations of include the Board’s regular follow-up of nal Audit is to examine and evaluate goverthe Treadway Commission (COSO) frameSBAB’s financial position and performance, nance and internal controls, to examine and work, which comprises five internal control etc., but also include the Board’s review and evaluate that the company’s organisation, components. follow-up on the auditor’s review reports. control processes, IT systems, models and routines are appropriate and efficient, and Integrated Annual Report 2016 SBAB 65 Board of Directors BOARD OF DIRECTORS Deputy Chairman of the Board Bachelor of Arts. Born in 1949. Elected in 2010. Board assignments: Oscar Properties Holding AB (Chairman), Fourth AP fund (Deputy Chairman), AB Sveriges Säkerstallda ObliBoard member gationer (publ) (Swedish Covered Bond Corporation — SCBC), Bachelor of Business Administration and the foundation Stiftelsen Ostgotagarden Uppsala, the sport club IK Economics, Born 1974. Elected in 2016. Sirius, J Grinbaum Finanskonsult, Jernhusen AB, ATS Finans Holding AB and ATS Finans AB. Board assignments: Vasallen AB, Villekulla (cooperative association). Other assignments: Advisory Board of Genesta Property Nordic AB. Other assignments: Under-secretary at Chairman of the Board Previous experience: Executive Vice President, Group Treasury and the Government Offices. Group Corporate Development at Nordea. Higher bank degree (SEB). Previous experience: Vice President, Investment Born in 1962. Elected in 2013. Banking Citigroup Board assignments: Carnegie Investment Bank AB and Carnegie Holding AB, Rikshem AB and Rikshem intressenter AB, AB Sverige Säkerställda Obligationer (publ), Chairman of the Board in all of the above companies. Board member of KBC Bank N.V., Bmag DA N I E L K R I S T I A N S S O N AB, Föreningen Vikborgsöns Parkintressenter with limited liability. Other assignments: – Previous experience: Deputy CEO at SEB and other senior positions within SEB. J A KO B G R I N B A U M B O M AG N U S S O N LARS BÖRJESSON C A R LH E N R I K B O R G Board member Master of Engineering. Born in 1964. Elected in 2014. Board member Board assignments: Taggsvampen AB, Dovana AB. LLM. Born in 1952. Elected in 2015. Other assignments: CEO of KGH Customs Services. Board assignments: Lägenhetsbyte Sverige AB (ChairPrevious experience: CEO of Stena Technoworld, man), Chiffer Media Aktiebolag (Chairman) and CABO Director of Strategy and Business Development Stena consulting AB. metall, Senior partner of Accenture, including ManOther assignments: Self employed and digital advisor. aging Director of Accenture Management Consulting Nordic. Previous experience: CEO of Hemnet, founder/senior partner of Webanalys Sitesfaction AB. 66 SBAB Integrated Annual Report 2016 Board of Directors Board member Bachelor of Business Administration and Economics, M.Sc., M.Phil. Born in 1955. Elected in 2012. Board assignments: Sixth AP fund (Chairman), Burenstam & Partners. Other assignments: – Board member Previous experience: CEO Respect Europe, CEO Confederation of Swedish Enterprise, CEO and editor in chief TT, editor in chief Bachelor of Business Administration and Economics. Affärsvärlden, CEO Transferator Fondkommission. Born in 1963. Elected in 2009. Board assignments: FriendsOfAdam, DORO AB, Doro Care AB. Board Member (Employee Representative) Other assignments: CEO Friends of Adam. Born in 1982. Appointed in 2016 by the local club Previous experience: CEO Telia e-bolaget, Marketcommittee of SACO. ing Director and Acting Chief Communication Officer TeliaSonera, Management consultant. Board assignments: BRF Trekanten Liljeholmen Other assignments: Project manager IT, SBAB, Chairman of the local club committee of the ConfedEBBA LINDSÖ eration of Professional Associations (SACO) at SBAB. K ARI N MOBERG JOHAN ERIKSSON JOHAN GRUDE KRISTINA LJUNG Board Member (Employee Representative, deputy) JANE LUNDGREN-ERICSSON Born in 1972. Appointed in 2016 by the local club committee of the Financial Sector Board Member (Employee Representative) Union of Sweden. Born in 1966. Appointed in 2016 by the local Board assignments: BRF Boklok Strand Board member Strand (deputy) club committee of the Financial Sector Union Master of Law, LL.M (London). Born in 1965. Elected of Sweden. Other assignments: Employee within Credit in 2013. Management at SBAB, member of the local Board assignments: – Board assignments: Miskatonic Musik Aktiebolag club committee of the Financial Sector Other assignments: Key Account Manager (deputy). Union of Sweden at SBAB. Köp och Byt, Retail Market SBAB, Chairman Other assignments: Executive Director & Head of of the local club committee of the Financial Lending at Svensk Exportkredit. Sector Union of Sweden at SBAB. Previous experience: CEO of SEK Securities and other senior positions at Svensk Exportkredit AB. Integrated Annual Report 2016 SBAB 67 Executive Management EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT CEO Bachelor of Social Sciences Business Administration Born in 1963. Year of employment: 2014 CIO Board assignments: Board member AB Sveriges Säkerstallda Master of Engineering, Born in 1966. Year Obligationer (publ) (Swedish Covered Bond Corporation — of employment: 2016. COO SCBC)) and DE Capital Chairman of the Board of Booli Search Board assignments: Technologies AB. Deputy Member of the Board of the Swedish Master of Law. Born in 1973. Year of employment: 1999. Previous experience: CTO of Nordnet Bankers’ Association. Bank AB, various managerial positions Previous experience: Founder and CEO of Nordnet AB (publ) Board assignments: Board Member of Maricon within Abaris. and Nordnet Bank AB, Head of Trading at SBC Warburg AB, Marinconsult AB’s Pension Fund, Deputy Board Chairman of SwedSec Licensiering AB, Board Member of Member of Maricon Marinconsult AB. Ikano Bank AB, East Capital AB, the Swedish Consumers’ Previous experience: Legal Counsel at Volvo Banking and Finance Bureau, Alternativa Aktiemarknaden AB, Treasury AB (publ), Chief Legal Counsel at the Swedish Securities Dealers Association, and others. SBAB CH RISTI N E EH NSTRÖM KLAS LJUNGKVIST K L A S DA N I E L S S O N ELIZABET JÖNSSON CARINA ERIKSSON Head of Retail Market Master of Business Administration and Economics. Born in 1976. HR Manager Year of employment: 2015. Master of Business Administration and Economics. Board assignments: Board member Miljonlotteriet and Booli Born in 1965. Year of employment: 2015. Search Technologies AB. Board assignments: – Previous experience: Head of Digital Consumer Market, Tele2 Previous experience: Scandinavian HR Business Sverige, Head of Customer Loyalty and Market Analysis, Head of Partner Lead, Trygg Hansa/Codan; Scandinavian Sales Online and other positions within Svenska Spel. HR Director Personal Lines, Trygg Hansa/Codan; HR Director, Microsoft Sweden; COO, Deutsche Bank Nordic Equities. 68 SBAB Integrated Annual Report 2016 Executive Management Head of Partnerships & Business Development Master of Business Administration and Economics. Born in 1975. Year of employment: 2015. Board assignments: Board member of Booli Search Technologies AB. Previous experience: Sales Manager at East Capital, Head of Funds at Nordnet. CFO Master of Business Administration and Economics. Born in 1963. Year of employment: 2014 Board assignments: Board member of Booli Search Technologies AB. Previous experience: CEO of Lindorff Sverige AB, Executive Vice President and CFO of Swedbank AB, Regional Manager and Executive Vice President of ForeningsSparbanken AB, Board member of ICA Banken, OK-Q8 Bank AB, HansaBank Group AS, and others. MIKAEL INGLANDER DA N I E L L J U N G E L Patrick Honeth Deloitte AB Auditor-in-charge at SBAB since 2016. AUDITOR The 2016 AGM appointed Deloitte AB as auditor, with Patrick Honeth as the auditor-incharge. For the period until the 2016 AGM, KPMG AB was auditor with Anders Tagde as auditor-in-charge. TIM PETTERSSON PETER SVENSÉN Head of Corporate Clients & Tenant-Owners’ Associations Post-secondary school education — economics. Born in 1960. Year of employment: 2002. CRO Board assignments: – Master of Engineering. Born in 1974. Year of Previous experience: Office and Area Manager, employment: 2012. Swedbank, Head of Sales, Corporate Clients & Board assignments: – Tenant-Owners’ Associations, SBAB. Previous experience: Senior Job Manager at Oliver Wyman, Manager at KPMG Financial Services. Integrated Annual Report 2016 SBAB 69 Proposed appropriation of profits PROPOSED APPROPRIATION OF PROFITS SBAB posted a net profit for the year after tax of SEK 277,206,792. According to SBAB’s balance sheet, SEK 7,598,300,831 is at the disposal of the Annual General Meeting. Tier 1 capital instruments 1,500,000,000 Reserves/Fair value reserve 118,304,814 Retained earnings 5,702,789,225 Net profit for the year 277,206,792 Total 7,598,300,831 The Board proposes that the earnings be appropriated as follows: A dividend payment of SEK 32,074 per share, in total 628,105,142 Carried forward to next year 6,970,195,689 Total 7,598,300,831 The proposed dividend, which amounts to 6% of the Company’s equity, has been proposed with consideration for the rules on buffer capital, risk limitation and transparency according to the Banking and Financing Business Act. The applicable regulations on capital adequacy and major exposures mean that the Company’s own funds at any given time shall correspond to at least the total capital requirements for credit risk, market risk and operational risk and the calculated capital requirements for additional identified risks in the operations, in accordance with the Company’s internal capital adequacy assessment. After the proposed appropriation of profits, own capital amounts to SEK 15,157 million (15,400) and the final minimum capital requirement amounts to SEK 2,519 million (2,664). The specification of the items is set out in Note 2i. In the Board’s assessment, the proposed dividend is justified considering the requirements that the nature, scope and risks of the operations impose on the scale of equity in the Parent Company and the Group, as well as on the needs of the Parent Company and the Group in terms of consolidation, liquidity and position. 70 SBAB Integrated Annual Report 2016 Five-year overview FIVE-YEAR OVERVIEW Group, SEK million 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 Interest income 4,601 5,123 7,261 8,147 10,485 Interest expense –1,772 –2,681 –5,150 –6,184 –8,544 Net interest income 2,829 2,442 2,111 1,963 1,941 Other operating income 1) 89 –101 510 –70 –693 Total operating income 2,918 2,341 2,621 1,893 1,248 Depreciation, amortisation and impairment of PPE and intangible assets –27 –31 –160 –69 –24 Other operating expenses –862 –778 –848 –746 –704 Total operating expenses –889 –809 –1,008 –815 –728 Profit before loan losses 2,029 1,532 1,613 1,078 520 Loan losses –18 –40 30 7 –20 Participations in joint ventures – – 1 – – Operating profit 2,011 1,492 1,644 1,085 500 Lending portfolio 296,022 296,981 261,445 258,739 255,946 Other assets 79,134 77,571 77,540 76,319 78,482 TOTAL ASSETS 375,156 374,552 338,985 335,058 334,428 Deposits 96,769 76,639 60,610 45,869 27,654 Debt securities issued, etc. 247,407 264,205 243,168 243,870 253,897 Other liabilities 9,552 13,870 18,260 29,388 37,057 Deferred tax liabilities 207 47 – 459 0 Subordinated debt 5,939 7,943 5,946 5,791 7,052 Equity 15,282 11,848 11,001 9,681 8,768 Total liabilities and equity 375,156 374,552 338,985 335,058 334,428 Selected key performance indicators New lending, SEK million 59,648 80,470 48,297 37,367 34,878 Net interest margin, % 0.75 0.68 0.63 0.59 0.58 Loan loss ratio, % –0.01 –0.01 0.01 0.00 –0.01 C/I ratio, % 30 35 38 43 58 Return on equity, % 12.3 10.2 12.1 9.5 4.2 Return on assets, % 0.4 0.3 0.4 0.3 0.1 Number of employees at year-end, FTEs 2) 510 429 397 436 380 Capital structure CET1 capital ratio, % 32.2 28.6 29.8 23.3 16.4 Tier 1 capital ratio, % 40.1 35.1 36.8 30.6 21.7 Total capital ratio, % 51.6 49.3 44.7 35.6 27.4 Total capital ratio with transitional rules, % 11.7 11.4 10.8 10.5 11.5 1) The item includes net commission, the net result of financial items and other operating income. 2) Number of employees expressed as full-time equivalents (FTEs), adjusted for sick leave and leave of absence. Integrated Annual Report 2016 SBAB 71 Financial statements FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND NOTES FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Income statement 73 Statement of comprehensive income 73 Balance sheet 74 Statement of Changes in Equity 75 Cash-flow statement 76 FINANCIAL NOTES Note 1 Accounting policies 77 Note 16 Derivatives 109 Note 2 Risk management and capital adequacy 82 Note 17 Shares and participations in Note 2a Risk management — Credit risk in lending Group companies 109 operations 82 Note 18 Intangible assets 110 Note 2b Risk management — Credit risk in treasury Note 19 Property, plant and equipment 111 operations 86 Note 20 Other assets 111 Note 2c Risk management — Liquidity risk 88 Note 21 Prepaid expenses and Note 2d Risk management — Market risk 91 accrued income 111 Note 2e Risk management — Operational risk 93 Note 22 Liabilities to credit institutions 111 Note 2f Risk management — Business risk 93 Note 23 Deposits from the public 111 Note 2g Risk management — Concentration risk 93 Note 24 Debt securities issued, etc. 111 Note 2h Risk management — Internal capital Note 25 Other liabilities  112 adequacy assessment  94 Note 26 Accrued expenses and Note 2i Risk management — Capital adequacy deferred income 112 analysis 95 Note 27 Deferred tax 112 Note 3 Net interest income 101 Note 28 Provisions 113 Note 4 Commission 101 Note 29 Subordinated debt and capital instruments 114 Note 5 Net result of financial items Note 30 Equity 115 measured at fair value/Net result of financial transactions 101 Note 31 Assets pledged for own liabilities 115 Note 6 Other operating income 101 Note 32 Contingent liabilities 115 Note 7 Personnel costs 102 Note 33 Classification of financial instruments 116 Note 8 Other expenses 104 Note 34 Fair value disclosures 120 Note 9 Depreciation, amortisation and impairment Note 35 Offsetting disclosures 121 of PPE and intangible assets 105 Note 36 Related party disclosures 122 Note 10 Net loan losses 105 Note 37 Operating segments 124 Note 11 Tax 106 Note 38 Five-year overview 125 Note 12 Sovereign bonds eligible as collateral, etc.  106 Note 39 Business combinations 126 Note 13 Lending to credit institutions 106 Note 40 Proposed appropriation of profits 126 Note 14 Lending to the public 107 Note 15 Bonds and other interest-bearing securities 108 72 SBAB Integrated Annual Report 2016 Financial statements INCOME STATEMENT GROUP PARENT COMPANY SEK million Note 2016 2015 2016 2015 Interest income 3 4,601 5,123 1,300 1,419 Interest expense 3 –1,772 –2,681 –974 –1,258 Net interest income 2,829 2,442 326 161 Commission income 4 69 61 85 82 Commission expense 4 –62 –163 –39 –79 Net result of financial items measured at fair value/ Net income from financial transactions 5 48 1 143 –76 Other operating income 6 34 0 721 625 Total operating income 2,918 2,341 1,236 713 Personnel costs 7 –412 –376 –408 –379 Other expenses 8 –450 –402 –449 –409 Depreciation, amortisation and impairment of PPE and intangible assets 9 –27 –31 –15 –22 Total expenses before loan losses –889 –809 –872 –810 Profit/loss before loan losses 2,029 1,532 364 –97 Net loan losses 10 –18 –40 –9 –51 Operating profit/loss 2,011 1,492 355 –148 Tax 11 –441 –330 –78 31 Net profit/loss for the year 1,570 1,162 277 –117 STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME GROUP PARENT COMPANY SEK million Note 2016 2015 2016 2015 Net profit/loss for the year 1,570 1,162 277 -117 Other comprehensive income: Components that will be reclassified to profit or loss 30 Change in reclassified financial assets, before tax – – – – Changes related to available-for-sale financial assets, before tax 198 -7 198 –7 Changes related to cash-flow hedges, before tax 370 175 –28 –6 Tax attributable to components that will be reclassified to profit or loss –125 –37 –37 3 Components that will not be reclassified to profit or loss 30 Revaluation effects of defined-benefit pension plans, before tax –58 72 – – Tax attributable to components that will not be reclassified to profit or loss 13 –16 – – Other comprehensive income, net of tax 398 187 133 –10 Total comprehensive income for the year 1,968 1,349 410 –127 Integrated Annual Report 2016 SBAB 73 Financial statements BALANCE SHEET GROUP PARENT COMPANY SEK million Note 2016 2015 2016 2015 ASSETS Cash and balances at central banks 0 0 0 0 Sovereign bonds eligible as collateral, etc. 12 20,492 14,312 20,492 14,312 Lending to credit institutions 13 1,619 3,456 56,630 17,162 Lending to the public 14 296,022 296,981 51,577 81,207 Value changes of interest-rate-risk hedged items in macro hedges 396 549 0 5 Bonds and other interest-bearing securities 15 48,851 49,714 48,851 49,714 Derivatives 16 6,192 7,192 6,221 6,430 Shares and participations in Group companies 17 – – 10,386 10,300 Deferred tax assets 27 – – – 52 Intangible assets 18 152 56 31 13 Property, plant and equipment 19 16 20 16 20 Other assets 20 550 1,246 179 554 Prepaid expenses and accrued income 21 866 1,026 761 904 TOTAL ASSETS 375,156 374,552 195,144 180,673 LIABILITIES AND EQUITY Liabilities Liabilities to credit institutions 22 4,689 5,111 4,191 2,973 Deposits from the public 23 96,769 76,639 96,769 76,639 Debt securities issued, etc. 24 247,407 264,205 71,474 76,925 Derivatives 16 2,475 5,194 6,075 6,778 Other liabilities 25 347 783 334 773 Accrued expenses and deferred income 26 1,976 2,767 373 569 Deferred tax liabilities 27 207 47 41 – Provisions 28 65 15 0 – Subordinated debt 29 5,939 7,943 5,939 7,943 Total liabilities 359,874 362,704 185,196 172,600 Untaxed reserves Equity Share capital 30 1,958 1,958 1,958 1,958 Statutory reserve – – 392 392 Tier 1 capital instruments 29 1,500 – 1,500 – Reserves/Fair value reserve 30 662 264 118 –14 Retained earnings 9,592 8,464 5,703 5,854 Net profit/loss for the year 1,570 1,162 277 –117 Total equity 15,282 11,848 9,948 8,073 TOTAL LIABILITIES AND EQUITY 375,156 374,552 195,144 180,673 74 SBAB Integrated Annual Report 2016 Financial statements STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY RESTRICTED EQUITY UNRESTRICTED EQUITY GROUP Retained earnings Tier 1 capital and net profit for SEK million Note Share capital Reserves instruments the year Total equity OPENING BALANCE, 1 JANUARY 2015 1,958 77 – 8,966 11,001 Dividends paid –502 –502 Other comprehensive income, net of tax 30 187 187 Net profit/loss for the year 1,162 1,162 Comprehensive income for the year 187 1,162 1,349 CLOSING BALANCE, 31 DECEMBER 2015 1,958 264 – 9,626 11,848 OPENING BALANCE, 1 JANUARY 2016 1,958 264 – 9,626 11,848 Tier 1 capital instruments 1,500 –34 1,466 Other 0 0 Other comprehensive income, net of tax 30 398 398 Net profit for the year 1,570 1,570 Comprehensive income for the year 398 1,570 1,968 CLOSING BALANCE, 31 DECEMBER 2016 1,958 662 1,500 11,162 15,282 PARENT COMPANY RESTRICTED EQUITY UNRESTRICTED EQUITY Retained earnings Statutory Fair value Tier 1 capital and net profit for SEK million Note Share capital reserve reserve instruments the year Total equity OPENING BALANCE, 1 JANUARY 2015 1,958 392 –4 – 6,356 8,702 Dividends paid –502 –502 Other comprehensive income, net of tax 30 –10 –10 Net loss for the year –117 –117 Comprehensive income for the year –10 –117 –127 CLOSING BALANCE, 31 DECEMBER 2015 1,958 392 –14 – 5,737 8,073 OPENING BALANCE, 1 JANUARY 2016 1,958 392 –14 – 5,737 8,073 Tier 1 capital instruments 1,500 –34 1,466 Other 0 0 Other comprehensive income, net of tax 30 132 132 Net profit for the year 277 277 Comprehensive income for the year 132 277 409 CLOSING BALANCE, 31 DECEMBER 2016 1,958 392 118 1,500 5,980 9,948 Integrated Annual Report 2016 SBAB 75 Financial statements CASH-FLOW STATEMENT GROUP PARENT COMPANY SEK million 2016 2015 2016 2015 Opening cash and cash equivalents 3,456 7,437 17,162 35,823 OPERATING ACTIVITIES Interest received 4,745 4,600 1,430 880 Commission received 69 58 86 79 Interest paid –2,407 –3,065 –1,075 –611 Commission paid –91 –99 –68 –19 Outflows to suppliers and employees –863 –813 –858 -823 Taxes paid/refunded –394 –601 –41 –4 Change in lending to the public 941 –35,421 29,622 –37,368 Sovereign bonds eligible as collateral, etc. –6,287 1,177 –6,287 1,177 Change in bonds and other interest-bearing securities and fund units 1,092 –7,898 1,092 –7,898 Change in liabilities to credit institutions –422 –2,149 1,218 –254 Change in deposits from the public 20,130 16,029 20,130 16,029 Change in debt securities issued, etc. –16,226 23,972 –5,331 8,833 Change in other assets and liabilities –1,535 –1,428 138 –352 Cash flow from operating activities –1,248 –5,638 40,056 –20,331 INVESTING ACTIVITIES Sale of property plant and equipment 0 1 0 1 Investments in property plant and equipment and intangible fixed assets –30 –29 –29 –16 Investments in subsidiaries –59 – –59 – Cash flow from investing activities –89 –28 –88 –15 FUNDING ACTIVITIES Dividends paid – –502 – –502 Subordinated debentures issued – 4,947 – 4,947 Repayment of subordinated debentures –2,000 –2,760 –2,000 –2,760 Tier 1 capital instruments issued 1,500 – 1,500 – Cash flow from funding activities –500 1,685 –500 1,685 Increase/decrease in cash and cash equivalents –1,837 –3,981 39,468 –18,661 Closing cash and cash equivalents 1,619 3,456 56,630 17,162 Cash and cash equivalents are defined as cash and lending to credit institutions. Subordinated receivables (receivables from Group companies) are included in cash and cash equivalents for the Parent Company, and are recognised in the balance sheet under Lending to credit institutions. 76 SBAB Integrated Annual Report 2016 Financial notes FINANCIAL NOTES NOTE 1 Accounting policies SBAB Bank AB (publ), “SBAB,” and its subsidiaries mainly conduct lending to conChange in IAS 34 Interim Financial Reporting sumers, tenant-owners’ associations and companies in the Swedish residential mortThe amendment means interim reports are required to include a section containing gage market. SBAB’s offering also includes savings products. SBAB is a Swedish financial statements, including notes, similar to the annual reports. Disclosures propublic limited banking company domiciled in Solna. The address of the Head Office vided in accordance with IAS 34.16A are either to be included in the section for is SBAB Bank AB (publ), Box 4209, SE-171 04 Solna, Sweden. financial statements, including notes, or a reference must be included from the The Annual Report for SBAB has been prepared in accordance with the Internanotes to a different section in the interim report, where such disclosures are made. tional Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as adopted by the EU. In addition to This will be applied effective from 1 January 2016. these accounting standards, Finansinspektionen’s (Sweden’s financial supervisory authority) regulations and general guidelines on annual accounts for credit instituAmendments to the Annual Accounts Act tions and securities companies (FFFS 2008:25), the Swedish Annual Accounts Act Amendments in 2016 for Credit Institutions and Securities Companies and the Swedish Financial ReportDue to the new EU accounting directive, amendments to the Annual Accounts Act ing Board’s recommendation RFR 1 Supplementary Accounting Rules for Groups (1995:1554) and the Annual Accounts for Credit Institutions and Securities Comwere taken into consideration. panies Act (1995:1559) were adopted. For SBAB, this means the introduction of a The Annual Report has been prepared in accordance with the acquisition Development expenditure reserve. This means that when expenses for proprietary method, apart from the revaluation of derivatives, and financial assets and liabilities software are capitalised, a corresponding amount in equity is transferred from unremeasured at fair value through profit or loss, financial assets measured at fair value stricted equity to a restricted reserve, the Development expenditure reserve. All through other comprehensive income, and hedge-accounted items. On 21 March intangible assets are amortised in the same way as fixed assets in general, i.e. over 2017, the Board of Directors approved the financial statements for publication and their useful life. Only in cases where the useful life of development expenditure canawait final adoption by the Annual General Meeting on 24 April 2017. not be determined with a reasonable degree of certainty, is a useful life of five years applied. The balance-sheet section that currently contains information about memIntroduction of new accounting standards orandum items will be removed, and this information will instead be provided in a IFRS 9 Financial instruments note. Moreover, the Swedish term ansvarsforbindelse (contingent liabilities) will be In 2014, the IASB published IFRS 9 Financial Instruments. IFRS 9 Financial Instrureplaced by the term eventualforpliktelser (contingent liabilities). Other examples of ments replaces IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement — with situations where information under this proposal is provided in a different place in regard to classification and measurement, and impairment and hedge accounting. the annual accounts pertains to the disclosure about events after the balance-sheet A separate project under the IASB is ongoing with regard to macro hedge accountdate, which will now be provided in a note instead of in the administration report. ing. The standard becomes effective as of 1 January 2018. Disclosures regarding the appropriation of profits are provided both in the adminisUnder IFRS 9, classification is based on both the entity’s business model and the tration report and in a note. Other changes in the new annual accounts acts will contractual cash flow characteristics. This classification, in turn, determines the have no material practical impact on SBAB’s financial statements. These legislative measurement. The impairment model under IFRS 9 is based on expected credit changes will apply for the first time on 1 January 2016. losses as opposed to the current model, which is instead based on incurred credit loss events. The aim of the new model is to capture and recognise expected credit Forthcoming amendments losses at an earlier stage. The new standard also specifies more detailed disclosures. Moreover, the accounting act inquiry has fulfilled its assignment by presenting a final The new hedge accounting rules have a clearer ambition to reflect risk managereport. It proposes that the provisions on the preparation of interim reports be ment and entail a number of new disclosures. SBAB has conducted a comprehensive removed from the annual accounts acts and instead be compiled under a separate study of how the new rules will impact SBAB. The new rules will have most impact on new act, the Interim Report Act. However, the contents of the provisions will remain SBAB’s reporting in terms of the recognition of expected credit losses. SBAB has iniunchanged. It also proposes changes to how the accounts are signed. The provisions tiated a model development and evaluated how systems and processes will be requiring annual and consolidated reports to be signed by all board members and affected. The development of models and methods is characterised by a large numthe CEO are supplemented by the possibility to finalise the accounts through a resober of choices and judgements, and since no final decision has been taken on these lution recorded in the minutes of a board meeting where all board members and the issues, it is not possible to state a figure with sufficient precision to represent the CEO are present, instead of the current signing. It also proposes to allow the certifiimpact of the new rules. In terms of classification and measurement, these could cate of adoption be signed by someone other than a Board Member or the CEO, to impact the recognition and measurement of securities in the liquidity portfolio. be appointed by the Board of Directors. Moreover, the inquiry proposes that credit Analysis has not been completed, but the preliminary assessment is that the new institutions and securities companies, when preparing consolidated accounts, rules will not have any material effect on the income statement and balance sheet. should not be required to break down equity in the way otherwise required in the No decision has yet been taken as to whether the new hedge accounting rules preparation of annual accounts. Therefore, equity should not be required to be broshould apply from 1 January or whether SBAB, pursuant to the permitted choices in ken down into restricted and unrestricted equity in the consolidated accounts. It is IFRS 9, will begin implementing the new rules only when IFRS 9 has been supplealso proposed that all credit institutions and securities companies should require mented with rules for macro hedge accounting. In terms of any future possible Finansinspektionen’s consent to write up fixed assets. Other changes in the new impact of the new hedge accounting rules, a preliminary assessment has been made annual accounts acts pertaining to the contents of the final report have no practical that it is the new rules for recognition of the unrealised effects of changes in cross-curmaterial impact on SBAB’s financial statements. The amendments to the Annual rency basis spreads that could have any material effect on financial reporting. Accounts Act will be applied from 1 January 2017. IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers General accounting policies The standard introduces a five-step model to determine when revenues within the Consolidated financial statements scope of IFRS 15 will be recognised. Depending on when certain criteria are met, The consolidated financial statements were prepared in accordance with the acquiincome is either recognised over time in a manner that shows the company’s perforsition method and include the Parent Company SBAB and its subsidiaries. Entities mance, or at a point in time when control over the goods or services is transferred. qualify as subsidiaries if they are controlled by the Parent Company. A parent comThe standard will have limited impact on SBAB’s financial statements, and becomes pany is deemed to have control of a subsidiary when it not only controls the subsidieffective as of 1 January 2018. ary and is exposed to, or is entitled to, variable returns from the subsidiary but when it can also affect the returns from the subsidiary by means of its influence. The comIFRS 16 Leases panies are consolidated as of the date when the Parent Company assumes control The new IFRS 16 has changed the lease classification criteria. Assuming that the EU of the subsidiary, and the consolidation ends when the Parent Company no longer adopts IFRS 16 and that the date proposed by the IASB for it to enter force does not exercises controlling influence over the subsidiary. Intra-Group transactions and change, the standard will apply from the 2019 financial year. As yet, SBAB has not conreceivables and liabilities between Group companies are eliminated. ducted an analysis of how the new standard will affect SBAB’s financial statements. Integrated Annual Report 2016 SBAB 77 Financial notes Cont. NOTE 1 Accounting policies The cost of an acquisition comprises the fair value of any assets provided by way of Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss remuneration and any arisen or assumed liabilities. Any unsettled consideration for The category “Financial assets measured at fair value through profit or loss” is a put option is valued at the present value of the redemption amount. Identifiable divided into “held for trading” and “financial assets that Executive Management acquired assets, and assumed liabilities and contingent liabilities are valued at fair designated as such upon initial recognition.” All of SBAB’s assets in this category are value on the acquisition date. Any consideration transferred for corporate acquisiclassified as held for trading and primarily encompass interest-bearing instruments. tions that exceeds the fair value of identifiable acquired net assets is recognised as This category includes derivatives that are not subject to hedge accounting. goodwill. Goodwill is distributed over cash-generating units (CGUs) or groups of On the first accounting occasion, assets in this category are recognised at fair CGUs, which are expected to benefit from the acquisition through synergies. The value, while related transaction costs are recognised in profit or loss. CGUs to which goodwill is distributed correspond to the lowest level within the Changes in fair value and realised gains or losses for these assets are recognised Group where goodwill is followed up in the internal governance. directly in profit or loss under the heading “Net result of financial items measured at Transaction costs, with the exception of transaction costs related to the issue of fair value,” while the effective interest rate is recognised as interest income. equity or debt instruments, that arise through the acquisition are recognised directly in profit/loss for the year. For acquisitions where a put option has been issued, the Loans and accounts receivable anticipated-acquisition method is applied, which means that the put option for the Financial assets classified as loans and accounts receivable are recognised at fair remaining shares is considered as acquired at the time of acquisition. Consequently, value at the time the loan is disbursed plus transaction costs. no minority holdings are recognised. The debt regarding the present value of the Loans and accounts receivable are subsequently recognised at amortised cost redemption price for a put option will thereby be included in the fair value of the using the effective-interest method. This category consists of assets with fixed or total consideration. determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market. Loan receivables consist of lending to the public and credit institutions and include associated items. Recognition in and derecognition from the balance sheet The majority of lending comprises retail loans for the funding of housing and loans to Issued and acquired securities, including all derivatives, are recognised on the trade legal entities and consumers for multi-family dwellings and commercial properties. date, meaning the date on which the significant risks and rights are transferred Changes in value are recognised as “Net loan losses,” while the effective interest between the parties. rate is recognised as interest income. The assets are tested for impairment if there Other financial instruments are recognised on the settlement date. are indications, referred to as objective evidence, of impairment. Also refer to the A financial asset is derecognised from the balance sheet when the contractual Loan losses and impairment of financial assets section. rights to receive cash flows from the financial asset expire and the Group has transferred essentially all of the risks and rewards of ownership of the asset. A financial Investments held to maturity liability is derecognised from the balance sheet when it is extinguished, meaning The “Investments held to maturity” category recognises interest-bearing assets that when the obligation specified in the contract is fulfilled, cancelled or has expired. the Group has the intent and ability to hold to maturity. If any more than an insignificant amount in this category is sold or reclassified in the current financial year or in Recognition of income and expense the two previous financial years, no assets can be classified as belonging to this catInterest income and interest expense (including interest income from impaired egory. The exception to this rule is sales or reclassifications made close to maturity, receivables) are recognised using the effective-interest method. The calculation of or if more or less the entire original nominal amount has been received, or if it the effective interest rate includes all fees paid or received between the parties to depends on an isolated event over which the company had no control, that was the contract, including transaction costs. non-recurrent, and that the company could not reasonably foresee. Since transaction costs in the form of remuneration to business partners or issue “Investments held to maturity” are measured at amortised cost. The assets are expenses attributable to the acquisition of loans constitute part of the acquisition tested for impairment if there are indications, referred to as objective evidence, of cost of the loan, these costs are recognised in the balance sheet and included in impairment. Impairment losses are recognised as “Impairment of financial assets,” profit or loss using the effective-interest method via net interest income over the while the effective interest rate is recognised as interest income. Also refer to the expected tenor of the loan. “Loan losses and impairment of financial assets” section. Commission income and commission expense are included in profit or loss continuously in accordance with the contractual terms. Available-for-sale financial assets In the event of premature redemption of loans, the customer pays interest comIn the “Available-for-sale financial assets” category, financial assets are recognised pensation intended to cover the cost that arises for SBAB. This compensation is recfor which there is an active market, but where the assets are not held for trading and ognised as income directly under the “Net result of financial items measured at fair are not intended to be held until maturity. These are measured at fair value in the value.” Other items under this heading are described in the “Financial instruments” balance sheet, with the change in value recognised as a component of other comsection. prehensive income and accumulated in a separate reserve (the fair-value reserve) in equity. Changes in fair value are not recognised in profit or loss until the asset has Financial instruments been realised or an impairment is recognised. Changes in value that are attributClassification able to exchange rate changes are recognised in profit or loss. All financial instruments covered by IAS 39 and which are not subject to hedge When a fair value reduction for a financial asset that has been categorised as accounting are classified pursuant to this standard in the following categories: available for sale has been recognised in other comprehensive income and objec• Financial assets measured at fair value through profit or loss (FVTPL) tive evidence of impairment exists, the accumulated loss reported in other compre• Loans and accounts receivable hensive income is reclassified from equity to profit or loss as a reclassification adjust• Investments held to maturity ment, even if the financial asset has not been removed from the statement of finan• Available-for-sale financial assets cial position. The impairment amount is recognised under the “Net result of financial • Financial liabilities measured at FVTPL items measured at fair value.” • Other financial liabilities Financial liabilities measured at fair value through profit or loss Offsetting The “Financial liabilities measured at FVTPL” category is divided into financial liabilFinancial assets and financial liabilities are to be offset and recognised at net ities held for trading and financial liabilities that Executive Management has desigamounts only where the recognised amounts may legally be offset and the intention nated as such upon initial recognition. All of SBAB’s liabilities in this category are is to settle the items with a net amount or to simultaneously realise the asset and setclassified as held for trading. This category includes derivatives that are not subject tle the liability. No financial instruments are recognised at net amounts in the balto hedge accounting. Liabilities in this category are initially recognised at fair value, ance sheet. while related transaction costs are recognised in profit or loss. Changes in fair value and realised gains or losses for these liabilities are recognised in profit or loss under Fair value measurement the “Net result of financial items measured at fair value,” while the effective interest Fair value is defined as the price that would be received on the valuation date on the rate is recognised as interest expense. sale of an asset or the price that would be paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants. Other financial liabilities Fair value measurement of financial instruments measured at fair value and Financial liabilities that are not classified as “Financial liabilities measured at FVTPL” traded on an active market is based on quoted prices. are initially recognised at fair value with an addition for transaction costs and are If the market for a financial instrument is not active, the fair value is established on subsequently recognised at amortised cost using the effective-interest method. This the basis of generally accepted measurement methods. As far as possible, calculacategory consists mainly of issued debt securities, deposits from the public and liations conducted in connection with measurement are based on observable market bilities to credit institutions. Realised gains or losses from the repurchase of own liainformation. The main tools used are models based on discounted cash flows. In bilities affects profit or loss when incurred and is recognised under the “Net result of individual cases, the calculations may also be based on assumptions or estimates. financial items measured at fair value,” while the effective interest rate is recognised as interest expense. 78 SBAB Integrated Annual Report 2016 Financial notes Liabilities to the owners of the remaining shares and warrants in subsidiaries, for The amount of impairment is measured as the difference between the carrying which put options have been issued, are classified as other financial liabilities and amount of the receivable and the present value of estimated future cash flows disrecognised under other liabilities. The amounts recognised are based on the counted at the effective interest rate of the receivable in accordance with the most amounts expected to be disbursed under the option agreements outstanding. The recent interest-rate adjustment date. The cash flows attributable to the borrower or revaluation of the liability is recognised against retained earnings. For ownership the issuer and any use of the collateral are taken into consideration when assessing details, refer to Note 17 Shares and participations in Group companies. the need for impairment. Any expenses associated with the realisation of the collateral are included in the cash-flow calculations. The measurement of probable loan Repos losses or impairment of other financial assets is effected in gross amounts and, when Repos are agreements where the parties have reached agreement on the sale and there is a guarantee or the equivalent, this is recognised as a receivable against the repurchase of a particular security at a pre-determined price. Securities that have counterparty. If the present value of future cash flows exceeds the carrying amount been provided or received under these repo agreements are not derecognised from of the asset, no impairment takes place and the receivable is not regarded as doubtor not recognised in the balance sheet, respectively. Payments received are recful. The impairment amount is recognised in profit or loss under “Net loan losses” or ognised in the balance sheet as liabilities to credit institutions and payments made “Impairment of financial assets” depending on the type of receivable. See the are recognised as lending to credit institutions. The impact on profit or loss is attrib“Loans and accounts receivable” and “Investments held to maturity” sections. If the utable to the difference between sale and repurchase prices and is recognised as impairment requirement has declined in a subsequent period and the decrease can interest income or interest expense, respectively. objectively be attributed to an event that occurred after recognition of the impairment, a reversal of a previously recognised impairment can be recognised under the Equity instruments corresponding income statement item. Issued debt securities with the financial nature of equity, as per the definitions in IAS Confirmed loan losses and provisions for probable losses, with deductions for 32, are recognised as additional Tier 1 capital under equity. Interest payments on guarantees expected to be utilised or that have been utilised plus any recoveries, these instruments are recognised as a deduction from equity at the time of payment. are recognised as loan losses. The term “Confirmed loan losses” refers to losses where the amounts are definite or established with a high level of probability and Derivatives and hedge accounting have thus been derecognised. Derivatives are used primarily to manage interest-rate and currency risk in the Group’s assets and liabilities, and are recognised at fair value in the balance sheet. Individually measured loan receivables For economic hedges where the risk of a significant fluctuation in profit or loss is the Corporate market loans (loans to companies and tenant-owners’ associations) are greatest and that meet the formal hedge accounting criteria, SBAB has chosen to apply individually measured for impairment. Retail market loans are individually measured hedge accounting for the hedging of interest-rate and currency risk. There are also other for impairment if there are special reasons for doing so. Loan receivables not detereconomic hedges for which hedge accounting is not applied. These derivatives outside mined to have an individual impairment requirement are included in a group of hedge accounting are classified as assets or liabilities, respectively, measured at FVTPL. financial assets with similar credit risk characteristics and are judged on a collective basis in terms of the impairment requirement. Fair-value hedging In the case of fair-value hedging, the derivative hedging instrument is measured at Collectively measured loan receivables fair value at the same time as the hedged asset or liability is measured with an addiThe loan receivables assessed in this group are as follows: tion for accumulated changes in fair value attributable to the hedged risk associated • Retail market loans not individually measured. These consist of a large number of with the hedged item. Changes in fair value are recognised directly in profit or loss loans each of a limited amount and with similar credit risk characteristics under the “Net result of financial items measured at fair value.” The effective inter• Individually measured loan receivables where no objective evidence of individual est rate of the hedge is recognised in net interest income. impairment has been determined in accordance with the above information on When hedging relationships are terminated, the cumulative gains or losses are “Individually measured loan receivables.” accrued in profit or loss, after adjustment of the carrying amount of the hedged item in the income statement in accordance with the effective-interest method. The The impairment of collectively measured loans is identified in two different ways: accrual extends over the remaining maturity of the hedged item. The realised gain • Based on the internal risk classification and adjusted in accordance with the IFRS or loss arising from premature closing of a hedging instrument is recognised in profit regulatory framework, groups of loans have been identified that have been subor loss under “Net result of financial items measured at fair value.” ject to events that produced a measurable negative impact on the expected future cash flows Macro hedges • In addition, groups of loans are identified for which future cash flows have underIn this type of hedging, derivatives are used at an aggregated level to hedge strucgone a measurable deterioration due to recent events but which have not yet had tured interest-rate risks. When reporting these transactions, the carve-out version of an impact on the risk classification system. IAS 39 is applied, as adopted by the EU. In the financial statements, derivative instruments designated as macro hedges are treated in the same way as other fairLoans with renegotiated terms and conditions value hedging instruments. Loans with renegotiated terms and conditions are receivables where SBAB has In fair value hedging of portfolios of assets, the gain or loss attributable to the granted some form of concession due to a deterioration in the borrower’s financial hedged risk is recognised under “Value changes of interest-rate-risk hedged items in position or because the borrower has encountered other financial problems. Conmacro hedges” in the balance sheet. The hedged item is a portfolio of lending transcessions granted are considered to constitute confirmed loan losses, and are recactions based on the next contractual renewal date. The hedging instrument used is ognised in profit or loss under “Net loan losses.” Additional information about loans a portfolio of interest-rate swaps grouped in accordance with renewal intervals with renegotiated terms and conditions is provided in Note 2a Risk management — based on conditions in the fixed leg of the swap. Credit risk in lending operations. Cash-flow hedges Individually measured securities In the case of cash-flow hedges, the hedging instrument (the derivative) is valued at Receivables included in this group are securities that have been classified as “Investfair value. The effective part of the total change in value is reported as a component ments held to maturity.” Each security is impairment tested individually. in other comprehensive income and accumulated in a separate reserve (hedge reserve) in equity. The accumulated amount is reversed in the income statement in Other periods where the hedged item affects the profit or loss. The ineffective part of the Functional currency derivative’s change in value is transferred to the income statement under “Net result Functional currency is the currency used in the primary economic environments in of financial items measured at fair value,” where the realised gain or loss arising at which the Group operates. The companies included in the Group are the Parent the end of the hedge relationship is recognised. The effective interest-rate of the Company and subsidiaries. The Parent Company’s functional currency and presenderivative is recognised in net interest income. tation currency is SEK. The Group’s presentation currency is SEK. Loan losses and impairment of financial assets Foreign currency translation of receivables and liabilities Loans and receivables recognised at amortised cost Foreign currency transactions are recognised by applying the exchange rate on the On the balance-sheet date, an assessment takes place of whether any objective evitransaction date, and foreign currency receivables and liabilities are translated dence exist of impairment of an individual receivable or group of receivables. This using the closing-date rate. Foreign exchange gains or losses resulting from settletakes place as a result of events that have occurred after the initial recognition of ments of foreign currency transactions and from the translation of monetary assets the asset and which have impacted the expected future cash flows for the loan and liabilities in foreign currency are recognised in profit or loss under “Net result of receivable or group of receivables. Events that could lead to impairment of the loan financial items measured at fair value.” being include, depending on the circumstances, receivership, suspension of payments, a composition, a court order to pay or a changed credit rating. Integrated Annual Report 2016 SBAB 79 Financial notes Cont. NOTE 1 Accounting policies Leases The impairment amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use. Existing leases relate to normal leases for SBAB’s operations. They mainly concern When calculating the value in use, future cash flows are discounted using a disoffice premises and office equipment and are classified as operating leases. In opercounting factor that takes into account risk-free interest and the risks associated with ating leases, lease payments are recognised as expenses in profit or loss on a the asset in question. straight-line basis over the lease term. Agreed future lease payments are presented in Note 9. Tax Total tax consists of current tax and deferred tax. Current tax comprises tax that is to Property, plant and equipment be paid or received for taxable earnings during the current year and adjustments of Property, plant and equipment are recognised as assets in the balance sheet if it is current tax for previous years. Accordingly, for items recognised in profit or loss, the probable that future financial benefits will flow to the entity and the cost of the item related tax effects are also recognised in profit or loss. can be measured reliably. Property, plant and equipment are recognised at cost less Tax effects of items recognised in other comprehensive income or equity are recany accumulated depreciation and impairment losses. ognised in other comprehensive income or equity. Deferred tax assets and tax liabilities are measured according to the balance Depreciation of property, plant and equipment sheet method on the basis of temporary differences that arise between the carrying The depreciable amount is calculated as the cost of the asset less its estimated amount and the tax base of an asset or liability. Deferred tax assets are recognised residual value at the end of its useful life. The depreciable amount is allocated on a for unutilised tax losses to the extent that it is probable that the carry-forwards can straight-line basis over the estimated useful life of the asset, and the depreciation be used to offset future taxable profit. Deferred tax is calculated in accordance with charge for each period is recognised in profit or loss. This means that computer the tax rate applicable at the time of taxation. hardware is depreciated over four years and other equipment over five years. The residual value and useful life of an asset are assessed annually. Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents are defined as cash and lending to credit institutions with Intangible assets maturities of not later than three months from the acquisition date. Investments in acquired computer software and/or software developed by SBAB are recognised at cost after accumulated amortisation and impairment losses have Pensions been deducted. Costs for the maintenance of software are expensed as they arise. The Group has both defined-contribution and defined-benefit pension plans. For Development expenditure that is directly attributable to the development and testthe defined-contribution pension plans, fixed fees are paid to an independent unit, ing of identifiable and unique software products controlled by the Group is recfollowing which no additional obligations arise. Pension costs for defined-contribuognised as an intangible asset when the following criteria are fulfilled: tion plans are expensed on a continuous basis in pace with vesting by the individual • It is technically possible to complete the software so that it can be used. employee. • The company intends to complete the software product and use it. The Group’s net obligation with regard to defined-benefit plans is calculated sep• It can be demonstrated how the software will generate probable future financial arately for each plan by estimating the future benefit that employees have earned benefits; and that adequate technical, financial and other resources for completthrough their service in current and prior periods, with that benefit being discounted ing the development and for using the software are available. to its present value. The present value of the defined-benefit obligation is deter• The expenditure attributable to the software product during its development can mined by discounting the estimated future cash flows applying the interest rate for be reliably measured. mortgage bonds in SEK with maturities comparable to those of the pension obligaOther development expenditure that does not fulfil these criteria is expensed as it tion in question. Changes or reductions in a defined-benefit plan are recognised on arises. Development expenditure that has previously been expensed may not be the earliest of the following dates: a, when the change or reduction in the plan recognised as an asset in a later period. occurs or b, when the Company reports related restructuring costs and severance Additional expenses for capitalised intangible fixed assets are recognised as benefits. The changes/ reductions are recognised directly in profit for the year. The assets in the balance sheet only in cases where they increase the future financial defined-benefit pension obligation is calculated annually by independent actuaries benefits of the specific asset to which they are attributable. All other costs are using the “projected unit credit method.” expensed as they arise. Development expenditure is capitalised only in the consoliThe provision recognised in the balance sheet for defined-benefit pension plans dated financial statements. represents the present value of the defined-benefit obligation at the close of the On the acquisition of a subsidiary, its identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent reporting period less the fair value of the plan assets. The provision includes special liabilities are measured at fair value on the acquisition date. The portion of the employer’s contributions. All of the components included in the period’s cost for a acquisition cost that exceeds the fair value of the net identifiable assets is recdefined-benefit plan are recognised in operating profit. This includes the return on ognised as goodwill. Goodwill is allocated to the CGUs and tested not less than plan assets, calculated applying the same discount rate used to calculate the presonce each year for impairment. ent value of the obligation. Revaluation effects comprise actuarial gains and losses, including the difference between the actual return on plan assets and the total Amortisation of intangible fixed assets included in operating profit. All revaluation effects are recognised under “Reserves” Amortisation is allocated on a straight-line basis over the useful life of the asset. This in equity. entails amortisation periods of four or five years. The amortisation period and amortisation method for intangible fixed assets are reviewed at each financial year-end. Segment reporting A segment is a part of a business for which independent financial information is Impairment of non-financial items available, that conducts business operations from which income can be generated The recoverable amount of an asset is measured when there is any indication that and expenses incurred and whose operating profits are regularly assessed by the an asset may be impaired. Development work not yet available for use is tested company’s chief operating decision maker as a basis for decisions regarding the annually for impairment irrespective of whether there is any indication of impairallocation of resources to segments and an assessment of the segment’s profit or ment. An asset is impaired when its carrying amount exceeds its recoverable loss. At SBAB, the CEO is the function that is responsible for allocating resources amount. The impairment loss for each period is charged against net profit/loss for and assessing the profit or loss of the operating segment. the period. Impairment of goodwill is recognised when a CGU (group of CGUs) carrying amount exceeds its recoverable amount. An impairment is recognised as an expense in the profit for the year. When a need for impairment is identified for a CGU (group of CGUs), the impairment amount is primarily allocated to goodwill. Thereafter, proportional impairment is applied to the other assets in the CGU (group of CGUs). Goodwill impairment is never reversed. 80 SBAB Integrated Annual Report 2016 Financial notes Parent Company accounting policies Critical accounting estimates and judgements The Parent Company, SBAB AB (publ), applies statutory IFRS, which means that the Critical assumptions Annual Report has been prepared in compliance with IFRS subject to the additions To prepare the annual accounts in compliance with statutory IFRS, it is required that and exceptions that ensue from the Swedish Financial Reporting Board’s recomExecutive Management use estimates and judgements based on historical experimendation RFR 2 Accounting for Legal Entities, the Annual Accounts Act for Credit ence and assumptions that are considered to be reasonable and fair. These estiInstitutions and Securities Companies and Finansinspektionen’s regulations and mates affect the carrying amounts of assets, liabilities and off-balance sheet expogeneral guidelines on annual accounts for credit institutions and securities compasures, as well as income and expenses presented in the Annual Report. Subsenies (FFFS 2008:25). quently, the actual outcome may differ to some extent from the estimates made. Differences compared with the Group Measurement of loan receivables The main differences between the accounting policies of the Group and those of the The area that primarily entails a risk of causing an adjustment to recognised assets Parent Company are shown below: in the next financial year is the measurement of loan receivables. In the case of individually measured loan receivables, the most critical assessment, which also conPresentation of the income statement and balance sheet tains the most uncertainty, is the estimate of the future cash flow that the customer The Parent Company complies with the presentation standards for income statewill generate. For collectively measured loan receivables, the estimates of future ments and balance sheets stipulated in the Annual Accounts Act for Credit Institucash flows are based partly on assumptions concerning how observable data may tions and Securities Companies, which entail a different presentation of equity. The result in loan losses. See also the “Loan losses and impairment of financial assets” Parent Company’s statutory reserve is recognised in the Group as retained earnsection above. ings, while the Parent Company’s Fair value reserve is included in the Group’s Reserves. Recognition of pensions Measurement of the Group’s pension obligations is based on a number of actuarial Pensions and financial assumptions that have a material impact on carrying amounts. SBAB The Swedish Pension Obligations Vesting Act and regulations issued by Finansinsuses the yield on mortgage bonds for discounting pension obligations, since a funcpektionen contain rules requiring a different method of recognising defined-benefit tioning market for mortgage bonds exists in Sweden. The assumptions upon which pension plans compared with that stipulated in IAS 19. Application of the Swedish the measurement is based, as well as a sensitivity analysis, are presented in Note 28. Pension Obligations Vesting Act is a prerequisite for tax deductibility of the pension payments. In view of this, RFR 2 states that the regulations of IAS 19 in terms of Recognition of deferred tax assets defined-benefit pension plans need not be applied by the legal entity. The recognition of deferred tax assets pertaining to deductible temporary differences or loss carry-forwards is based on management’s assessment of the future Measurement in relation to the assumption of receivables likelihood of the company generating taxable profits corresponding to the basis for Intra-group loan receivables between the Parent Company and the subsidiary, deferred tax assets. SCBC, are recognised at fair value. When a reserved receivable is transferred between the companies, it is assumed at the net carrying amount after provisions. Impairment testing of goodwill The selling company recognises the loss as a confirmed loss, while the purchasing The value of recognised goodwill is tested at least once a year with regard to a company recognises the receivable at the net carrying amount, without provisions. potential need for impairment. This testing requires an assessment to be made of The loan will be recognised as a doubtful receivable in the purchasing company, the value in use of the cash-generating unit to which the goodwill value is attributalbeit at the net carrying amount. If it is later established that the receivable can be able. Furthermore, an assumption regarding expected future cash flows is required measured at its original value (after amortisation), the income will be recognised in along with the establishment of a relevant discount rate for calculating the present profit or loss under “Net income from financial transactions.” cash flow value. The assessments conducted as of 31 December 2016 are described in Note 18. Subsidiaries Participations in subsidiaries are recognised in the Parent Company in accordance with the cost method. Dividend Dividends received from subsidiaries are recognised in profit or loss. Anticipated dividends from subsidiaries are recognised in cases where formal decisions have been taken in the subsidiary or where the Parent Company otherwise has full control over the decision-making process before it publishes its financial statements. Dividends paid are recognised as a reduction of unrestricted equity following the passing of a resolution on dividends at the Annual General Meeting. Group contributions Group contributions received from subsidiaries are recognised as financial income, while Group contributions paid to subsidiaries by the Parent Company are recognised as increased participations in Group companies. Integrated Annual Report 2016 SBAB 81 Financial notes NOTE 2 Risk management and capital adequacy Note 2, Risk management and capital adequacy is divided into the following segments: e) Operational risk a) Credit risk in lending operations f) Business risk b) Credit risk in treasury operations g) Concentration risk c) Liquidity risk h) Internal capital adequacy assessment d) Market risk i) Capital adequacy analysis NOTE 2a Risk management — Credit risk in lending operations Credit risk in lending operations is defined as the risk that the counterparty is unable to In the financial statements, the EL according to IRB models differs from the provision fulfil its payment obligations. Credit risk arises in conjunction with loans and loan commitfor probable loan losses. The calculation of EL according to Basel Pillar 1 is governed ments, as well as in connection with value changes in pledged assets entailing that these by the Capital Requirements Regulation ( CRR )2). Under this regulation, the risk no longer cover the Group’s receivables. Credit risk also arises in treasury operations associated with each individual loan is to be estimated based on historic information, (Note 2b). over a longer time horizon and using a statistical model. The management of the loss The credit risk in lending operations is managed through a credit granting process that arising in the financial statements is still regulated by IAS 39, according to which, analyses the ability of potential borrowers to meet their interest payments and make capassets are to be impaired when there are objective grounds for impairment due to ital repayments. New loans are only granted to borrowers who are judged able to pay the occurrence of one or more events that have a negative impact on future cash interest and make capital repayments when interest rates comfortably exceed the rate flows. Total EL for loans calculated according to IRB models amounts to SEK 208 milprevailing when the loan decision is taken. Moreover, the credit risk is restricted by credit lion (281). The net provision for corresponding loans in the financial statements is limits adopted for various customers or customer groups. SBAB applies a debt ratio1) ceilSEK 206 million (198). The capital adequacy calculations separate non-performing ing for new retail loans of 600% with the aim of ensuring that the good credit quality of loans from other loans. Any positive difference reduces CET1 capital while negative the lending portfolio is maintained. Furthermore, risk classification is based on the interdifferences are added to Tier 2 capital. New forthcoming rules in IFRS 9 will change nal ratings-based approach (IRB approach) for the analysis of the credit risk for new and the method used for credit risk provisions from 2018, refer to Note 1. existing customers in the loan portfolios. SBAB applies the IRB approach for retail loans In connection with quantitative assessments in lending to companies, systematic and lending to many tenant-owners’ associations and the foundation IRB approach (FIRB qualitative assessments are conducted based on the internal loan regulations approach) for corporate loans and lending to tenant-owners’ associations with turnover through responses to a number of questions. This enables a more uniform risk assessexceeding EUR 50 million. Finansinspektionen has reviewed the bank’s IRB approach and ment based on more substantial data. found it reliable. The standardised approach is used for quantifying credit risk for unsecured loans. When external ratings are used, the lowest rating from either Moody’s or Collateral in the lending operations Standard & Poor’s is selected. For loans granted by SBAB, adequate collateral must normally be provided. Adequate The IRB approach has been used since 2007 for assessing credit risk where a mortcollateral primarily refers to mortgage deeds in residential properties or shares in gage deed or a tenant-owners’ right is used as collateral. In 2015, SBAB also received tenant-owners’ associations within a maximum of 75–85% of the market value. The 85% permission to use the IRB approach for excess exposures that are not fully covered by level only applies if collateral can be obtained with a primary lien and the customer is mortgage deeds, property financing using other collateral than directly pledged mortincluded in a lower risk class. The lower risk classes for retail customers (Retail — R) comgage deeds and letters of credit. Previously, the standardised approach was used for prise the levels R1–R4, while the lower risk classes for Corporate customers, (Corporate these exposures. — C) comprise the levels C0–C3, and manually adjusted from C3 to C43). In other cases, a loan-to-value (LTV) ratio of 75% generally applies. The IRB credit risk models assess the following parameters: In addition to collateral in the form of mortgage deeds or tenant-owners’ rights, it is • Probability of default by the customer — PD (Probability of Default) possible to grant loans against, inter alia, collateral in the form of a government guaran• Loss amount in the event of default — LGD (Loss Given Default) tee, municipal guarantee, securities, bank guarantees and deposits in a Swedish bank. • The part of the off-balance sheet exposure that is utilised in the event of default — A very limited part of total lending has been made without any collateral being obtained. Credit conversion factor (CCF) SBAB does not hold any collateral that has been taken over to protect a receivable. Lend• The expected exposure in the event of default — EAD (Exposure at default) ing to the public accounts for 79% (79) of SBAB’s overall assets. • The expected loan loss (EL) is measured using the formula The financial effect of collateral received is illustrated in the diagram below, which EL=PD*LGD*EAD shows loans in relation to the market value of underlying collateral for loans secured on Customers are ranked according to risk based on these parameters, and expected and collateral comprising mortgage deeds or shares in tenant-owners’ associations. The area unexpected losses can be estimated. After assessment, the exposure is allocated to one in the diagram corresponds to the lending volume and shows that SBAB’s lending portfoof eight risk classes for retail and corporate exposures, of which the eighth class comprises lio has favourable collateral, since the largest area in the diagram is for lower LTV ratios. customers in default. Trends for customers in high-risk classes are monitored thoroughly The diagram encompasses 98% (97) of the company’s total lending to the public. Since and, when necessary, exposures are managed actively by credit monitoring personnel in 98% (97) of total lending is secured with collateral in mortgage deeds or shares in the credit division. The developed models are validated annually and calibrated as the tenant-owners’ associations to within 75%, credit quality is assessed as highly favourable. need arises. Validations conducted in 2016 did not result in any changes to the models. LOANS IN RELATION TO THE MARKET VALUE OF UNDERLYING COLLATERAL (LTV) FOR LOANS SECURED ON COLLATERAL COMPRISING MORTGAGE DEEDS OR TENANT-OWNERS’ RIGHTS CORPORATE EXPOSURES RETAIL EXPOSURES Lending volume Lending volume 0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 100 110 120 130 140 >150 0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 100 110 120 130 140 >150 LTV, % LTV, % 1) Gross  income before tax in relation to loan. 2) CRR refers to the European Parliament and Council’s recommendation on supervisory requirements for credit institutions and securities companies No. 575/2013. 3) “Retail loans” refers to all lending to the public pertaining to single-family homes, holiday homes and tenant-owners’ rights, as well as unsecured loans to consumers and loans to tenant-owners’ associations, with a turnover of less than EUR 50 million. “Loans to corporates” refers to i) loans to other legal entities, and ii) other lending to consumers. 82 SBAB Integrated Annual Report 2016 Financial notes Exposure-weighted Segment, % Below 50% Below 75% Below 100% average LTV Corporate exposures 77.8 99.3 99.9 64.5 Retail exposures 83.2 98.1 99.8 56.8 Total 82.6 98.2 99.8 57.7 Loan portfolios in lending operations allocated by risk class For loan receivables with individual provisions, an individual assessment of the loan’s As per 31 December 2016, SBAB’s lending to the public amounted to SEK 296 bilfuture cash flow is conducted in conjunction with an estimate of the market value of the lion (297). Every customer is allocated to a risk class. Customers with individual loan underlying collateral, which constitutes the basis for the individual provision. For collecprovisions are always allocated to the corporate risk class (C8) or the retail risk class tive provisions, a change has occurred in the risk associated with a group of loans, but (R8). For corporates, loans covered by collective provisions are assigned risk classes this change cannot be traced to an individual customer. The table provides a specificafrom C6–C7, and collectively impaired retail loans comprise loans are assigned risk tion of provisions without taking guarantees into account, as well as a specification of classes R5–R8. The risk class C0 comprises loans to counterparties with a 0% risk the guaranteed amount for each group of provisions. The value of collateral and guarweight (Swedish municipalities). Transaction costs of SEK 89 million (104), which antees largely refers to the value of mortgage deeds or tenant-owners’ rights and to a were attributable to the loans, are distributed in the table on a pro rata basis. lesser extent to the value of loan guarantees from the Swedish National Housing Credit Guarantee Board (currently part of the National Board of Housing, Building and Planning), insurance companies and banks that have been recognised at the assessed value LOAN PORTFOLIO BY RISK CLASS — RETAIL of what is expected to be received in the event of insolvency. (INCLUDING TENANT-OWNERS’ ASSOCIATIONS) At 31 December 2016, total provisions (individual and collective) amounted to SEK 2016 2015 221 million (214) after a deduction for guarantees, which corresponds to 0.07% (0.07) of the loan portfolio, of which the provision for individually assessed loans accounted for Provisions Provisions SEK 59 million (81). At year-end 2016, individual provisions after deduction for guarin respective in respective Risk class 1) Lending risk class Lending risk class antees decreased by SEK 22 million (increased: 45) compared with the preceding year, and accounted for 44% (48) of loans with individual provisions, which amounted R1/C1, % 35.8 – 28.8 0.0 to SEK 134 million (170). No need for provisions arose for lending to credit institutions. R2/C2, % 30.1 – 31.1 0.0 R3/C3, % 17.2 – 20.4 0.0 LENDING TO THE PUBLIC AND CREDIT INSTITUTIONS R4/C4, % 10.6 – 11.6 0.0 BASED ON THE STATUS OF THE BORROWER’S PAYMENTS R5/C5, % 4.7 0.5 5.7 0.3 2016 2015 R6/C6, % 1.0 1.2 1.4 0.8 Credit Credit SEK million Public institutions Public institutions R7/C7, % 0.5 4.8 0.8 3.4 R8/C8, % 0.1 15.5 0.2 18.0 Current loans without past-due 100% 0.1% 100% 0.1% unpaid amounts or 1) R=Retail, C=Corporate. provisions 295,744 1,619 296,577 3,456 Loans with unpaid amounts more than LOAN PORTFOLIO ALLOCATED BY RISK CLASS — CORPORATE five days past due 379 – 487 – 2016 2015 Loans with individual Provisions Provisions provisions 134 – 170 – in respective in respective Risk class 1) Lending risk class Lending risk class Total loans outstanding 296,257 1,619 297,234 3,456 C0, % 0.0 – 0.0 – Individual provisions –59 – –81 – C1, % 58.7 – 56.5 – Collective provisions, corporates –1 – –11 – C2, % 26.4 – 23.1 – Collective provisions, C3, % 13.1 – 15.8 – retail –175 – –161 – C4, % 1.4 – 3.4 0.0 Total provisions –235 – –253 – C5, % 0.3 – 1.0 0.1 Total lending after C6, % 0.0 19.8 0.0 10.4 provisions 296,022 1,619 296,981 3,456 C7, % 0.0 4.0 0.0 27.3 Guarantees for loans C8, % 0.1 37.2 0.2 36.3 with individual provisions – – 0 – 100% 0.1% 100% 0.1% Guarantees for loans with collective 1) C=Corporate provisions, corporates 1 – 3 – Guarantees for loans Lending to the public and credit institutions with collective The table below shows loans to the public and credit institutions in three categories provisions, retail 13 – 36 – based on the status of the borrower’s payments: Total guarantees 14 – 39 – • Without past-due unpaid amounts or provisions — the borrower has fulfilled its payment obligations in accordance with the loan terms and conditions Total lending after • With unpaid amounts more than five days past-due — the borrower has not fulprovisions and guarantees 296,036 1,619 297,020 3,456 filled its payment obligations • With individual provisions, doubtful loan receivables Current loans without past-due unpaid amounts or provisions The allocation of loans per risk class for the loans that had neither past-due unpaid amounts nor individual provisions shows that 94% (93) are in the risk classes C0/ R1–C4/R4. The allocation includes total transaction costs of SEK 89 million (104), which were allocated on a pro rata basis. The costs derive mainly from single-family dwellings and tenant-owners’ rights. Integrated Annual Report 2016 SBAB 83 Financial notes Cont. NOTE 2a Risk management — Credit risk in lending operations LENDING TO THE PUBLIC BY SEGMENT — CURRENT LOANS WITHOUT PAST-DUE UNPAID AMOUNTS OR INDIVIDUAL PROVISIONS 2016 Single-family Private Municipal Risk class dwellings and Tenant-owners’ Tenant-owners’ multi-family multi-family Commercial Loans without SEK million holiday homes rights associations dwellings dwellings properties formal collateral Total C0 – – – – 2 – – 2 C/R1 39,145 26,158 28,691 18,205 112 2,053 166 114,530 C/R2 31,384 29,849 17,748 7,075 82 1,229 367 87,734 C/R3 17,164 23,851 3,555 3,056 – 1,057 748 49,431 C/R4 12,417 14,161 393 139 43 328 370 27,851 C/R5 5,272 6,509 97 4 1 112 234 12,229 C/R6 1,037 1,325 43 3 – – 71 2,479 C/R7 697 591 14 11 – – 32 1,345 C/R8 33 14 75 21 – – 0 143 Total 107,149 102,458 50,616 28,514 240 4,779 1,988 295,744 2015 Single-family Private Municipal Risk class dwellings and Tenant-owners’ Tenant-owners’ multi-family multi-family Commercial Loans without SEK million holiday homes rights associations dwellings dwellings properties formal collateral Total C0 – – – – 8 – – 8 C/R1 35,047 18,669 23,201 15,314 202 2,102 116 94,651 C/R2 34,282 25,520 23,067 5,799 41 720 332 89,761 C/R3 22,214 26,232 4,771 3,876 217 911 768 58,989 C/R4 14,347 15,283 688 687 0 395 431 31,831 C/R5 6,867 7,588 327 140 2 185 255 15,364 C/R6 1,560 1,891 168 16 – – 88 3,723 C/R7 1,152 828 50 0 – – 40 2,070 C/R8 44 26 73 21 – – 1 165 Not assigned a risk class – – – – – – 15 15 Total 115,513 96,037 52,345 25,853 470 4,313 2,046 296,577 Loans with unpaid amounts more than five days past due The table describes loans with a past-due principal. All amounts are distributed by At year-end 2016, 99.8% (99.8) of lending had no past-due unpaid amounts and segment. Loans with past-due amounts in several time intervals are shown in full in was not assessed as doubtful. Of SBAB’s loan portfolio totalling SEK 296 billion the oldest time interval. (297), SEK 379 million (487) of the principal has past-due unpaid amounts. LENDING TO THE PUBLIC BY SEGMENT — LOANS WITH UNPAID AMOUNTS MORE THAN FIVE DAYS PAST DUE 2016 Single-family Private Municipal dwellings and Tenant-owners’ Tenant-owners’ multi-family multi-family Commercial Loans without SEK million holiday homes rights associations dwellings dwellings properties formal collateral Total Past due 5–30 days 1) 5 8 4 – – – 0 17 Past-due 31–60 days 110 108 – – – – 6 224 Past-due 61–90 days 14 26 – – – – 2 42 Past-due 91–180 days 17 18 – – – – 3 38 Past-due 181–365 days 19 15 – – – – 2 36 Past due > 365 days 13 7 – – – – 2 22 Total 178 182 4 – – – 15 379 2015 Single-family Private Municipal dwellings and Tenant-owners’ Tenant-owners’ multi-family multi-family Commercial Loans without SEK million holiday homes rights associations dwellings dwellings properties formal collateral Total Past due 5–30 days 1) 12 13 17 – – – 0 42 Past-due 31–60 days 160 105 2 – – – 8 275 Past-due 61–90 days 32 13 – – – – 1 46 Past-due 91–180 days 29 11 – – – – 1 41 Past-due 181–365 days 24 10 – – – – 1 35 Past due > 365 days 42 5 – – – – 1 48 Total 299 157 19 – – – 12 487 1) For the first time interval, amounts past-due by five days or less are not taken into consideration to ensure that the analysis is not distorted by payments delayed because the payment date is a holiday. 84 SBAB Integrated Annual Report 2016 Financial notes Loans with individual provisions Loans with individual provisions refers to receivables where provisions have been made following individual risk assessment. These loans account for no more than 0.05% (0.06) of SBAB’s total lending. LENDING TO THE PUBLIC BY SEGMENT — LOANS WITH INDIVIDUAL PROVISIONS 2016 Single-family Private Municipal Unsecured dwellings and Tenant-owners’ Tenant-owners’ multi-family multi-family Commercial loans SEK million holiday homes rights associations dwellings dwellings properties Total Loans with individual provisions 15 64 23 28 – – 4 134 Individual provision, Corporate Market – – –21 –18 – – – –39 Individual provision, Retail Market –4 –12 – – – – –4 –20 Loans with individual provisions, net 11 52 2 10 – – 0 75 Estimated value of guarantees – – – – – – – – Loans with individual provisions with pledged guarantees taken into consideration 11 52 2 10 – – 0 75 2015 Single-family Private Municipal Unsecured dwellings and Tenant-owners’ Tenant-owners’ multi-family multi-family Commercial loans SEK million holiday homes rights associations dwellings dwellings properties Total Loans with individual provisions 19 90 27 29 – – 5 170 Individual provision, Corporate Market – – –25 –18 – – – –43 Individual provision, Retail Market –6 –27 – – – – –5 –38 Loans with individual provisions, net 13 63 2 11 – – 0 89 Estimated value of guarantees – – – – – – – – Loans with individual provisions with pledged guarantees taken into consideration 13 63 2 11 – – 0 89 Loans with renegotiated terms and conditions In exceptional cases, loans may be renegotiated due to a deterioration of the borrower's financial position or because the borrower has encountered other financial problems. Such receivables are monitored carefully. Loans that have been renegotiated due to the borrower’s inability to fulfil the loan agreement may entail that: • The terms of the loan are modified by terms that are not normal market terms • The borrower partly repays the loan through the surrender of various assets • The borrower agrees to convert part of the loan receivable into an ownership share • The borrower is replaced or supplemented by a new borrower CARRYING AMOUNT OF RENEGOTIATED LOANS BY SEGMENT SEK million 2016 2015 Single-family dwellings and holiday homes 7 8 Tenant-owners’ rights 0 1 Tenant-owners’ associations 38 60 Private multi-family dwellings – – Municipal properties – – Commercial properties – – Unsecured loans – – Total 45 69 The carrying amount of financial assets that would otherwise have been recognised as past-due or impaired and whose terms have been renegotiated, by segment. Integrated Annual Report 2016 SBAB 85 Financial notes NOTE 2b Risk management — Credit risk in treasury operations Credit risk in treasury operations arises when the counterparty is unable to fulfil its effect of collateral pledged or received under CSAs or GMRAs is included in the payment obligations. Credit risk arises, in part, in the form of counterparty risk for the total limit. Moreover, for derivatives, an add-on amount is also calculated for future derivative and repo contracts entered into by SBAB to manage financial risks and, in risk-related changes. The limit is coordinated with the credit limit for counterparties part, as a result of investments in the liquidity portfolio and of surplus liquidity. who also are loan customers. Counterparty limits may be established for a period of The SBAB Group’s counterparties are banks and credit institutions, and the not longer than one year, after which a new assessment must be conducted. The underlying exposure in the table includes investments, derivatives and repos. The decisions of the Credit Committee are reported to the Board at the following Board limits are set by the Board’s Credit Committee within the confines of the framework meeting. All of SBAB’s counterparties have a rating from either Moody’s or Stanadopted by the Board of Directors. The utilised limit is calculated as the market dard & Poor’s. value of financial derivatives, repos and investments. For derivatives and repos, the LIMIT UTILISATION GROUP PARENT COMPANY 2016 2015 2016 2015 Rating category, SEK million Limit Utilised limit Limit Utilised limit Limit Utilised limit Limit Utilised limit AAA – – – – – – – – AAto AA+ 11,600 3,092 11,600 3,546 11,600 2,917 11,600 2,812 Ato A+ 13,910 3,957 12,910 3,851 13,910 3,526 12,910 3,468 Lower than A4,310 542 4,320 597 4,310 542 4,320 597 Unrated – – – – – – – – Total 29,820 7,592 28,830 7,994 29,820 6,984 28,830 6,877 The “Limit utilisation” table shows the limits and the utilised limits, respectively, for the confines of the framework adopted by the Board of Directors. The values in the SBAB’s derivative counterparties. The limits for each derivative counterparty are table comprise an aggregate of individual derivative counterparty’s total exposure proposed by SBAB’s Treasury and adopted by the Board’s Credit Committee within and the limits for the respective rating category. DISTRIBUTION OF ELIGIBLE TREASURY BILLS, BONDS AND OTHER INTEREST-BEARING SECURITIES BY RATING CATEGORY The table below shows an analysis of eligible treasury bills, bonds and other interest-bearing securities distributed in accordance with the lowest rating as at 31 December 2016, based on Standard & Poor’s rating or equivalent. 2016 Rating category, SEK milCovered Government Sovereigns, supranationals Non-governmental lion bonds guaranteed securities and agencies public sector entities Total AAA 37,255 21,297 1,753 6,323 66,628 AAto AA+ 1,882 834 2,716 Ato A+ – – – – – Lower than A– – – – – Total 37,255 23,179 1,753 7,157 69,343 2015 Rating category, SEK milCovered Government Sovereigns, supranationals Non-governmental lion bonds guaranteed securities and agencies public sector entities Total AAA 38,004 15,170 1,962 5,779 60,915 AAto AA+ – 1,988 – 1,124 3,112 Ato A+ – – – – – Lower than A– – – – – Total 38,004 17,158 1,962 6,903 64,027 86 SBAB Integrated Annual Report 2016 Financial notes GEOGRAPHICAL DISTRIBUTION OF ELIGIBLE TREASURY BILLS, BONDS AND OTHER INTEREST-BEARING SECURITIES 2016 Securities, SEK million Sweden Other EU Other Total Covered bonds 31,598 2,187 3,470 37,255 Government guaranteed securities 17,746 5,326 107 23,179 Sovereigns, supranationals and agencies – 1,753 – 1,753 Non-governmental public sector entities 6,323 834 0 7,157 Total as per 31 December 2016 55,667 10,100 3,577 69,343 Total as per 31 December 2015 47,979 11,354 4,694 64,027 Counterparty risk Derivative contracts entered into with external counterparties are mostly entered Counterparty credit risk is the risk that SBAB’s financial counterparties cannot meet into within the Parent Company, where the CSAs are reconciled with all counterpartheir commitments pursuant to the completed derivatives and repo contracts, and ties on a daily basis. When collateral agreements exist, collateral is transferred to such risk consists primarily of exposures to major banks. This exposure is predomireduce the exposure. Wherever applicable, the posted and received collateral takes nantly covered by collateral agreements, where the counterparty posts collateral to the form of cash with a transfer of title, which entitles the party that receives the colreduce SBAB’s exposure. In accordance with SBAB’s credit instruction, the credlateral to use the collateral in its operations. The effects of pledged and received it-risk limits are established by SBAB’s Credit Committee for all counterparties in collateral are shown in greater detail in Note 38 Offsetting disclosures. Treasury, with the exception of the Swedish government and companies included in In 2016, SBAB started to participate in the calculation of the STIBOR (Stockholm the SBAB Group, for which no credit limits are established. Interbank Offered Rate) reference rate for the Swedish market. The number of To limit the potential counterparty credit risk associated with derivative transacbanks providing STIBOR data thereby increased from six to seven banks. STIBOR is tions involving non-standardised derivatives that are not cleared by clearing organia reference rate that shows an average of the interest rates at which a number of sations approved by the competent authority (in accordance with Regulation (EU) the banks active in the Swedish money market are prepared to lend to each other No 648/2012), a framework agreement is to be entered into with the counterparty. without collateral under different maturities. In most cases such framework agreements, which are known as ISDA Master AgreeIn 2016, it became mandatory under the European Markets Infrastructure Reguments or similar agreements, have been supplemented with associated collateral lation (EMIR) for SBAB to clear interest-rate derivatives via central counterparties, agreements, known as a Credit Support Annex (CSA). A CSA must always be estabknown as clearing houses. The interest-rate derivatives that SBAB enters into with lished for counterparties entering into derivative contracts with SCBC. The framefinancial counterparties will thus be sent to a clearing house, whose purpose is to act work agreements entitle the parties to offset receivables against debt in the event of as a central counterparty for buyers and sellers. The clearing house is responsible for a payment default. fulfillment of the payment obligations. Cleared derivatives will give rise to a considCounterparty risk is reconciled on a daily basis for all counterparties. CSAs are erably lower capital requirement. reconciled on a daily basis or on a weekly basis if a collateral agreement exists. MAXIMUM CREDIT-RISK EXPOSURE IN TREASURY, GROUP Without taking into account collateral received Taking into account collateral received or other credit enhancements or other credit enhancements SEK million 2016 2015 2016 2015 Lending to credit institutions 1,619 1,739 1,619 1,739 Sovereign bonds eligible as collateral, etc. 20,492 14,312 20,492 14,312 Bonds and other interest-bearing securities 48,851 49,714 48,851 49,714 Derivatives 6,192 7,192 2,001 3,314 Maximum credit risk exposure as of 31 December 77,154 72,957 72,963 69,079 COLLATERAL POSTED AND RECEIVED UNDER COLLATERAL AGREEMENTS 2016 2015 Company, SEK million Collateral pledged Collateral received Collateral pledged Collateral received SBAB 792 4,191 1,717 2,973 SCBC 0 0 0 905 Integrated Annual Report 2016 SBAB 87 Financial notes NOTE 2c Risk management — Liquidity risk Continuous monitoring of liquidity risk Active debt management, the liquidity of the balance sheet and the size of SBAB’s liquidity reserve are key factors in SBAB’s liquidity risk management. By viewing Liquidity risk is defined as the risk that the company will not be able to meet its payfunding activities as a natural part of both operational work and the strategic planment obligations on the date of maturity without the related cost increasing signifining of liquidity risk, concentrations of excessively large funding maturities are cantly. The SBAB Group has long identified the importance of well-functioning and avoided. Another important part of the ongoing liquidity risk management is the proactive liquidity risk management. SBAB’s liquidity risk management is described continuous monitoring and testing of the practical liquidity value of the liquidity below. portfolio in the secondary market. Liquidity risk at SBAB is classified as short-term or structural liquidity risk. Broad and diversified funding Because the SBAB Group has maintained an active presence in the international Liquidity risk measurements — short-term liquidity risk capital market since 1989, its brand is well established. The SBAB Group has access Since 1 January 2013, SBAB is subject to Finansinspektionen’s liquidity coverage to the covered bond market, both in Sweden and internationally, through SCBC. In ratio (LCR) requirements as defined in FFFS 2012:6. The LCR measures the amount addition to issuing bonds, SBAB is funded by deposits from the public. of assets that can be converted to cash in relation to a stressed liquidity need for a 30-day period. The regulations stipulate that the institutions covered by them must, Liquidity reserve at every point in time, have an LCR amounting to at least 100%, both at the total The liquidity reserve is defined as the reserve value of the securities in the liquidity level and for EUR and USD isolated. portfolio and other liquid short-term investments. When calculating the reserve On 31 December 2016, the LCR, in accordance with the definition in FFFS value of the securities included in the liquidity reserve, the SBAB Group applies the 2012:6, was 243% (232) at the consolidated level, and 182,704% (1,544,051) and haircuts issued in accordance with the Riksbank’s Guidelines for Collateral Manage258% (233), respectively, in EUR and USD. In 2016, SBAB’s LCR never fell below ment in the regulatory framework for RIX and monetary policy instruments. 131% (171). The liquidity portfolio acts as a buffer, as the securities in the portfolio can be sold At 31 December 2016, the LCR, in accordance with the EU’s Delegated Regulato free up liquidity in stressed conditions. The portfolio holdings are long-term and tion (EU) 2015/61, was 277% (251) at the consolidated level, and 7,315% mainly comprise liquid, interest-bearing securities with high ratings, where 100% of (1,419,484) and 262% (188), respectively, in EUR and USD. In 2016, SBAB’s LCR the portfolio’s value can be used as collateral for repos with the Riksbank or the never fell below 178% (211). According to the EU’s Delegated Regulation, all credit European Central Bank (ECB). institutions must meet a total LCR of at least 70%. The requirement will be raised to Holdings in the liquidity portfolio are limited by asset class and by country, and 80% on 1 January 2017 and 100% on 1 January 2018. Since SBAB is already must have the highest rating upon acquisition. In addition to these collective limits, required to comply with Finansinspektionen’s requirement of an LCR of 100%, the limits for individual issuers are also set. Securities holdings constitute an integrated introduction will not have any material effect on SBAB. part of the total credit risk utilisation for each issuer/counterparty. At 31 December Internally within the SBAB Group, the liquidity risk is measured and stress tested 2016, 96% (95) of the portfolio had a rating of Aaa from Moody’s or AAA from by totalling the maximum conceivable need for liquidity for each coming day. This Standard & Poor’s. liquidity risk measure is referred to as the survival horizon. The calculations are Excluding pledged collateral, SBAB’s liquidity reserve amounted to SEK 66.3 bilbased on a crisis scenario in which all loans are assumed to be extended on matulion (62.1) at year end (the reserve value at Riksbanken or the ECB). The market rity, meaning that no liquidity is added through loan redemption, and where no value amounted to SEK 69.5 billion (65.3) with an average maturity of 2.2 years funding is available. Deposits from the public are treated with a conservative (2.7). Moreover, unutilised issuance capacity for covered bonds comprises an addiassumption, whereby withdrawals from the portfolio are distributed over time on the tional reserve that is not included in the calculation of the below liquidity metrics. basis of historical balance volatility. Accordingly, the maximum need for liquidity can be identified for every given future period, and the necessary liquidity reserve can The liquidity reserve’s market value is distributed over the following asset classes: be established. The survival horizon corresponds to the number of days for which the • Securities issued by central governments: SEK 20.7 billion (14.5) liquidity reserve covers the maximum outflow and it has been limited to a minimum • Securities guaranteed by central governments: SEK 2.7 billion (2.9) of 180 days at any given time. On 31 December 2016, the Group’s survival horizon • Securities issued by sovereigns, supranationals and agencies (SSAs), amounted to 444 days (265). In 2016, the survival horizon was never less than 244 SEK 1.7 billion (2.0) days (189). • Securities issued by public sector entities, SEK 6.6 billion (7.0) • European covered bonds, SEK 37.1 billion (38.5) • Deposits at central banks SEK 0.6 billion (0.5) 31 Dec 2016 31 Dec 2015 Distribution by currency Distribution by currency Group, SEK million Total SEK EUR USD Other Total SEK EUR USD Other Cash and balances at central banks 632 632 – – – 461 461 – – – Balances at other banks – – – – – – – – – – Securities issued or guaranteed by governments, central banks or multinational development banks 25,166 14,343 7,602 3,221 – 19,345 10,435 7,715 1,195 – Securities issued or guaranteed by municipalities or public sector entities 6,596 5,311 – 1,285 – 6,972 5,674 – 1,298 – Covered bonds issued by other institutions 37,070 31,364 4,739 967 – 38,504 31,575 5,292 1,447 190 Covered bonds issued by SBAB – – – – – – – – – – Securities issued by non-financial corporates – – – – – – – – – – Securities issued by financial corporates (excl. covered bonds) – – – – – – – – – – Other securities – – – – – – – – – – Total 69,464 51,650 12,341 5,473 – 65,282 48,145 13,007 3,940 190 Bank and loan facilities – – – – – – – – – – Total 69,464 51,650 12,341 5,473 – 65,282 48,145 13,007 3,940 190 Distribution by currency, % 74.4 17.8 7.9 – 73.7 20.0 6.0 0.3 88 SBAB Integrated Annual Report 2016 Financial notes Liquidity risk measurements — structural liquidity risk Stress tests Structural liquidity risk is a measure of the mismatch between assets and liabilities in SBAB has a model for stress testing liquidity risk aimed at internal requirements for terms of maturities, which risks leading to a lack of liquidity in the longer term. SBAB analytical and contingency management of liquidity risk. The stress tests have been aims to have a diversified funding. The SBAB Group has adopted a conservative designed in line with Finansinspektionen’s regulations on liquidity management, approach to the management of funding. A larger share of future maturities is being which impose general requirements on stress tests (FFFS 2010:7). The models analpre-financed and the share of total funding attributable to short-term funding is yse SBAB’s capacity to meet the need for cash and cash equivalents in various marbeing maintained at a low level. SBAB works actively to ensure an even distribution ket scenarios and to assess the effect of protracted stress SBAB’s ability to finance its of maturities, while at the same time extending the maturity of the liabilities. Monioperations. The scenarios are designed on the basis of SBAB’s specific risk profile toring of upcoming maturities, repurchases, replacements and pre-financing constiand cover both company-specific and market-related scenarios that may render the tute key elements of the practical management aimed at reducing the risk. financing of the operations difficult. The scenarios are divided into different stages SBAB limits its dependence on market funding by applying a limit on the ratio that illustrate increasing levels of stress intensity to reflect how a crisis can continubetween deposits from the public and lending to the public. On 31 December 2016, ously deteriorate. the ratio was 33% (26) compared to a limit of 24% (18). Access to funding from The scenarios simulated by the stress tests include: covered bonds is further secured by monitoring, at each point in time, including in • The 2008/2009 financial crisis — stress in the funding operations, with funding stressed circumstances, that the over collateralisation in the cover pool exceeds programmes closing at various stages Moody’s requirements for Aaa ratings. • Rating-related stress, with gradually lower ratings for SBAB and SCBC SBAB also measures its structural liquidity risk through a metric for maturity • Falling property market prices — various levels of falling prices, which increase matching that measures the relationship between the term to maturity of assets and LTV ratios, thus lowering the share of funding that can be conducted via covered liabilities from a liquidity perspective at various points in the future. This can be bonds viewed as SBAB’s internal version of the net stable funding ratio (NSFR), in which • Stress of liquidity in the liquidity reserve the maturity, in terms of liquidity, on deposits and lending is estimated by means of • Sizeable fluctuations in interest and currency exchange rates, leading to larger SBAB’s own statistical models, which are based on historical data of the behaviour amounts having to be secured through CSAs, which could thus impair liquidity of SBAB’s customers. At 31 December 2016, the ratio was 116% (112) at the oneyear point, compared with the limit of 90%. NSFR according to the Basel CommitThe stress tests are under continuous development and the assumptions on which tee definition was 122% (115). the various scenarios are based are assessed regularly. The stress tests are conThe tables “Maturities of hedged cash flows in cash flow hedges” and “Maturities ducted and reported quarterly, with results assessed against SBAB’s established risk of financial assets and liabilities” show the status of SBAB’s future cash flows at 31 appetite and used to adapt strategies and guidelines. December 2016 and 31 December 2015, respectively, from both a short-term and long-term perspective. GROUP Maturities of financial assets and liabilities (amounts refer to contractual, undiscounted cash flows) 2016 2015 No <3 3–6 6–12 1–5 >5 No <3 3–6 6–12 1–5 >5 SEK million maturity months months months years years Total maturity months months months years years Total ASSETS Cash and balances held at central banks 632 – – – – – 632 0 – – – – – 0 Sovereign bonds eligible as collateral, etc. – 6,841 64 2,919 10,295 601 20,720 – 526 27 1,710 11,653 586 14,502 Lending to credit institutions 0 1,861 – – – – 1,861 0 3,593 – – – – 3,593 Lending to the public – 42,965 59,147 105,103 91,041 5,264 303,520 – 40,954 60,232 110,059 89,214 5,441 305,900 Bonds and other interestbearing securities – 672 1,103 3,684 42,899 1,265 49,623 – 1,093 1,333 3,642 43,163 1,953 51,184 of which classified as loans and accounts receivable – – – – – – 0 – – – – – – 0 Derivatives – 26,950 2,544 5,107 122,182 20,043 176,826 – 20,369 35,707 3,457 77,222 48,262 185,017 Other assets 550 550 2,273 2,273 Total financial assets 1,182 79,289 62,858 116,813 266,417 27,173 553,732 2,273 66,535 97,299 118,868 221,252 56,242 562,469 LIABILITIES Liabilities to credit institutions – 4,896 – – – – 4,896 – 5,307 – – – – 5,307 Deposits from the public 95,494 83 20 1,129 62 0 96,788 76,450 94 20 22 54 0 76,640 Debt securities issued, etc. – 24,792 14,416 8,604 250,537 27,073 325,422 – 13,402 21,184 33,162 236,475 33,651 337,874 Derivatives – 26,314 2,439 4,652 120,527 20,094 174,026 – 19,908 35,088 3,360 77,009 48,919 184,284 Other liabilities 348 – – – – – 348 3,550 – – – – – 3,550 Subordinated debt – 72 42 1,082 7,058 0 8,254 – 2,123 38 71 6,521 0 8,753 Loan commitments and other credit-related commitments – 32,560 0 80 4,189 0 36,829 – 44,572 11 – 3,366 – 47,949 Total financial liabilities 95,842 88,717 16,917 15,547 382,373 47,167 646,563 80,000 85,406 56,341 36,615 323,425 82,570 664,357 Maturities of hedged cash flows in cash flow hedges SEK million No maturity < 3 months 3–6 months 6–12 months 1–5 years > 5 years Total Interest-rate-hedged 0 27 72 103 726 114 1,042 Currency-hedged 0 0 0 –2,634 –36,769 –5,823 –45,226 Net 0 27 72 –2,531 –36,043 –5,709 –44,184 Integrated Annual Report 2016 SBAB 89 Financial notes Cont. NOTE 2c Risk management — Liquidity risk PARENT COMPANY Maturities of financial assets and liabilities (amounts refer to contractual, undiscounted cash flows) 2016 2015 No <3 3–6 6–12 1–5 >5 No <3 3–6 6–12 1–5 >5 SEK million maturity months months months years years Total maturity months months months years years Total ASSETS Cash and balances held at central banks 632 – – – – – 632 0 – – – – – 0 Sovereign bonds eligible as collateral, etc. – 6,841 64 2,919 10,295 601 20,720 – 526 27 1,710 11,653 586 14,502 Lending to credit institutions 55 123 1,743 0 0 0 0 56,866 14,920 2,374 0 0 0 0 17,294 Lending to the public – 6,689 11,308 18,711 15,248 1,247 53,203 – 11,840 17,401 37,987 14,923 1,237 83,388 Bonds and other interestbearing securities – 672 1,103 3,684 42,899 1,265 49,623 – 1,093 1,333 3,642 43,163 1,953 51,184 of which classified as loans and accounts receivable – – – – – – – – – – – – – 0 Derivatives – 14,207 1,627 4,431 90,492 13,173 123,930 – 17,093 19,905 1,532 52,703 31,809 123,042 Other assets 179 – – – – – 179 1,459 – – – – – 1,459 Total financial assets 55,934 30,152 14,102 29,745 158,934 16,286 305,153 16,379 32,926 38,666 44,871 122,442 35,585 290,869 LIABILITIES Liabilities to credit institutions – 4,398 – – – – 4,398 – 3,169 – – – – 3,169 Deposits from the public 95,494 83 20 1,129 62 0 96,788 76,450 94 20 22 54 0 76,640 Debt securities issued, etc. – 12,175 3,186 6,869 50,304 0 72,534 – 10,491 6,587 7,623 53,142 511 78,354 Derivatives – 14,349 1,729 4,416 90,244 13,190 123,928 – 17,109 20,614 1,663 52,278 31,826 123,490 Other liabilities 334 – – – – – 334 1,342 – – – – – 1,342 Subordinated debt – 42 72 1,082 7,058 0 8,254 – 38 2,123 71 6,521 0 8,753 Loan commitments and other credit-related commitments – 32,560 0 80 4,189 0 36,829 – 44,572 11 – 3,366 – 47,949 Total financial liabilities 95,828 63,607 5,007 13,577 151,857 13,190 343,066 77,792 75,473 29,355 9,379 115,361 32,337 339,697 Maturities of hedged cash flows in cash flow hedges SEK million No maturity < 3 months 3–6 months 6–12 months 1–5 years > 5 years Total Interest-rate-hedged 0 3 28 7 112 0 150 Currency-hedged 0 0 0 -2,634 -10,066 0 -12,700 Net 0 3 28 -2,627 -9,954 0 -12,550 The maturity of the amortisation for amortised receivables and liabilities has been calculated as the period up to the date of maturity of the respective amortisation. Foreign currency cash flows have been converted using the closing rate at 31 December 2016. Future interest-rate cash flows with floating interest rates are estimated until the next fixing date using forward interest rates based on the actual interest base, usually the three-month STIBOR. The Parent Company, SBAB, is the creditor for the subsidiary SCBC’s subordinated debt. If the maturity is not specified, current debt is recognised as having no maturity and without estimated interest-rate cash flows. The item “Loan commitments and other credit-related commitments” for the Group, which totals SEK 36,829 million (47,949), amounted to SEK 11,861 million (13,242) after application of the internal model for calculating the CCF. The reduction has not been included in the table. The corresponding figures for the Parent Company amounted to SEK 36,829 million (47,949) and SEK 11,861 million (13,242), respectively. New regulations for liquidity risk The EBA has developed five more metrics for liquidity risk that are intended for comIn the wake of the financial crisis and its implications, a major international review parison and supervisory purposes. No quantitative requirements have been set for was carried out and extensive efforts launched to review the regulations for the these metrics. Reporting to the EBA started in spring 2016 for four of the metrics. management of liquidity risk in banks and credit institutions. The aim of the new regReporting of the fifth metric — a maturity ladder showing maturities of assets and liaulations, which are still being formulated, is to increase the resilience of banks to bilities up to ten years into the future — has not yet been initiated. The other four serious disruptions in the capital market and to achieve a more harmonised and metrics are: transparent approach to liquidity risk at the international level. • Concentration of counterbalancing capacity per issuer/counterparty, showing In order to set minimum levels for the liquidity of banks, the new regulations focus the bank’s holdings of liquid assets or liquidity facilities to meet temporary on two key ratios or standard metrics called the net stable funding ratio (NSFR) and declines in access to liquidity in the market the LCR, as described in more detail above. The aim of the NSFR is to indicate how • Concentration of financing counterparties and products, showing the counterstable the Group’s funding is by comparing the maturities of assets and liabilities. parties or financing products representing such a large percentage that losing In the EU, both metrics are included in the new capital adequacy regulations that them would affect the bank’s liquidity risk came into effect on 1 January 2014 and are reported to the EBA. The NSFR is not • Prices for various financing maturities currently subject to a quantitative requirement. It is expected that the Basel Com• Extension of maturing financing during the reporting period. mittee’s definition of the NSFR will be implemented in the EU, potentially with some deviations, and it is expected that the quantitative requirements will enter into force in 2019. 90 SBAB Integrated Annual Report 2016 Financial notes NOTE 2d Risk management — Market risk centage point up and down over a 12-month time horizon with no changes to the balance sheet. At the end of the year, the net interest income effect was negative SEK 97 million. Market risk is the risk of loss or reduced future income due to market fluctuations. SBAB is characterised by low risk taking, with the Board determining the overall risk Risks in the trading book appetite and setting the limit for the risk metric Value at Risk (VaR). In addition to The trading book consists of investments in SBAB’s trading portfolio and the part of VaR, a number of supplementary risk based metrics set by the CEO of SBAB are also the liquidity portfolio that is classified as “financial assets measured at FVTPL.” The subject to limitation. Through daily reports, Risk Control checks compliance with liquidity portfolio is subject to a limited interest-rate risk. The risk in the liquidity portcurrent risk levels and limits. Market risk is followed up on the Group level as well as folio primarily derives from credit risk. The trading portfolio gives SBAB a limited broken down to lower levels. mandate to accept market risk by taking its own positions in the market. All market The general principle governing SBAB’s exposure to market risk is that the level of risks in the trading book are managed within SBAB as an integrated part of the balrisk taking should be low. As a general principle, interest-rate risk is to be mitigated ance sheet together with other operations. through direct funding or the use of derivatives. SBAB’s interest-rate structure as of 31 December 2016 is shown in the table “Fixed-interest periods for financial assets and liabilities.” Currency risks are mitigated as funding in international currency is NOMINAL AMOUNTS FOR ASSETS, LIABILITIES AND DERIVATIVES hedged through currency swap contracts or invested in matching currencies. As per IN FOREIGN CURRENCY 31 December 2016, total assets and liabilities in foreign currency amounted to a GROUP, net liability of SEK 74.2 billion (liability: 75.0) in nominal terms. The risk outstanding SEK million Assets and liabilities Derivatives was reduced using derivatives where the nominal amount was equivalent to SEK 74.3 billion (74.7). The total effect per currency is reported in the table “Nominal AUD 0 0 amounts for assets, liabilities and derivatives in foreign currency.” CAD 0 0 CHF –2,673 2,673 Value at Risk VaR is a comprehensive portfolio measurement expressing the potential loss that DKK 0 0 could occur given a certain level of probability and holding period. SBAB’s model is EUR –66,326 66,465 a historical model and applies percentiles in historical market data from the past two GBP –1,439 1,439 years. Limits for the day to day follow up of VaR are set at three levels: SBAB’s total marJPY –339 339 ket risk, all market risks which Treasury is responsible for managing and the trading NOK –1,640 1,640 portfolio. The limit for SBAB’s total market risk is based on the VaR metric included in USD –1,758 1,746 the model for economic capital and applies a probability level of 99.97% and a holding period of one year, while the other two metrics apply a probability level of ZAR 0 0 99% and a holding period of one day. Total –74,174 74,302 As per 31 December 2016, SBAB’s total market risk exposure was SEK 1,118 million (1,154), compared with the limit of SEK 1,650 million (1,650). Exposure to market risks managed by Treasury was SEK 42 million (36) and the limit was SEK 55 milNOMINAL AMOUNTS FOR ASSETS, LIABILITIES AND DERIVATIVES lion (55). Exposure in the trading portfolio was SEK 1.5 million (1.6) and the limit IN FOREIGN CURRENCY was SEK 12 million (12). PARENT COMPANY SEK million Assets and liabilities Derivatives Supplementary risk metrics In addition to the overall VaR limits determined by the Board, the CEO has set a AUD 0 0 number of supplementary risk metrics for different kinds of risks to which SBAB is CAD 0 0 exposed. For interest-rate risk, there are limits for parallel shifts, where the effect on CHF –1,337 1,337 the present value of a one percentage point shift in the yield curve is measured, and curve risk where the effect on the present value is measured in different scenarios, in DKK 0 0 which the short end of the yield curve is adjusted down (up) and the long end is EUR –23,550 23,674 adjusted up (down). Currency risk is controlled by measuring the effect on present GBP –1,439 1,439 value when currency exchange rates change compared to SEK, and in the liquidity portfolio by controlling the matching of the principal in each currency. There are JPY –339 339 also limits for basis risk, credit-spread risk and income volatility from basis spreads. NOK 0 0 Income volatility from basis spreads arises because the derivatives used to hedge USD –1,395 1,384 funding is recognised at fair value while the underlying funding is reported as book value, in accordance with the accounting standards applied by SBAB. This causes ZAR 0 0 effects to arise in operating profit that do not correspond to the actual risk to which Total –28,059 28,172 SBAB’s portfolio is exposed to. The income volatility from basis spreads is expected to decrease in the future, as SBAB has applied hedge accounting through cash-flow hedges since 2014, which means that income volatility will only be calculated for swap contracts that are not subject to cash flow hedges. Interest-rate risk in other operations Interest-rate risk in other operations is measured and reported to Finansinspektionen in accordance with FFFS 2007:4. As per 31 December 2016, the effect on the present value was negative SEK 818.2 million (negative: 785.3) for a 2 percentage-point parallel upward shift and SEK 834.6 million (809.5) for a 2 percentage-point parallel downward shift. As SBAB’s own funds amounted to SEK 19.8 billion (18.9) at 31 December 2016, the effect of the stress tests amounted to negative 4.1% (negative: 4.2) and 4.2% (4.3) of own funds, respectively. The net interest income effect is measured to capture the impact of changes in interest rates on profit or loss. The metric reflects the differences in volume and fixed-interest periods between assets, liabilities and derivatives in other operations. The net interest income effect is based on an instantaneous parallel shift of one perIntegrated Annual Report 2016 SBAB 91 Financial notes Cont. NOTE 2d Risk management — Market risk FIXED-INTEREST PERIODS FOR FINANCIAL ASSETS AND LIABILITIES 2016 2015 Without Without Group interest <3 3–6 6–12 1–5 >5 interest <3 3–6 6–12 1–5 >5 SEK million period months months months years years Total period months months months years years Total ASSETS Cash and balances held at central banks – 0 – – – – 0 – 0 – – – – 0 Sovereign bonds eligible as collateral, etc. – 6,696 33 2,856 10,254 653 20,492 – 435 0 1,504 11,765 609 14,313 Lending to credit institutions – 1,619 – – – – 1,619 – 3,456 – – – – 3,456 Lending to the public – 206,929 9,440 13,493 62,008 4,152 296,022 15 200,788 12,727 15,414 63,853 4,184 296,981 Change in fair value of interest-rate-hedged loan receivables – 91 49 8 122 126 396 – 18 39 73 392 26 548 Bonds and other interestbearing securities – 8,040 448 2,713 36,363 1,287 48,851 – 6,024 640 3,101 38,021 1,928 49,714 Derivatives – –716 34 14 5,342 1,518 6,192 – –5,622 3,466 427 6,820 2,102 7,193 Other assets 1,416 – – – – – 1,416 2,273 – – – – – 2,273 Total financial assets 1,416 222,659 10,004 19,084 114,089 7,736 374,988 2,288 205,099 16,872 20,519 120,851 8,849 374,478 LIABILITIES Liabilities to credit institutions – 4,689 – – – – 4,689 – 5,111 – – – – 5,111 Deposits from the public – 95,513 51 1,143 62 – 96,769 – 76,544 20 22 54 0 76,640 Debt securities issued, etc. – 65,761 15,113 2,602 144,906 19,025 247,407 – 56,987 30,708 18,074 131,776 26,659 264,204 Derivatives – 622 –735 277 2,424 –113 2,475 – 7,222 –3,576 –489 2,084 –47 5,194 Other liabilities 2,323 – – – – – 2,323 3,550 – – – – – 3,550 Subordinated debt – 4,741 0 200 998 0 5,939 – 5,038 1,726 0 1,180 0 7,944 Total financial liabilities 2,323 171,326 14,429 4,222 148,390 18,912 359,602 3,550 150,902 28,878 17,607 135,094 26,612 362,643 Difference assets and liabilities –907 51,333 –4,425 14,862 –34,301 –11,176 15,386 –1,262 54,197 –12,006 2,912 –14,243 –17,763 11,835 2016 2015 Without Without PARENT COMPANY interest <3 3–6 6–12 1–5 >5 interest <3 3–6 6–12 1–5 >5 SEK million period months months months years years Total period months months months years years Total ASSETS Cash and balances held at central banks – 0 – – – – 0 – 0 – – – – 0 Sovereign bonds eligible as collateral, etc. – 6,696 33 2,856 10,254 653 20,492 – 435 0 1,504 11,765 609 14,313 Lending to credit institutions – 56,630 – – – – 56,630 –557 17,720 – – – – 17,163 Lending to the public – 45,458 754 1,192 3,875 298 51,577 15 73,594 1,315 2,672 3,406 205 81,207 Change in fair value of interest-rate-hedged loan receivables – – – – – – 0 – – 5 – – – 5 Bonds and other interestbearing securities – 8,040 448 2,713 36,363 1,287 48,851 – 6,024 640 3,101 38,021 1,928 49,714 Derivatives – 972 31 74 4,316 828 6,221 – –1,722 1,708 185 5,497 762 6,430 Other assets 940 – – – – – 940 1,459 – – – – – 1,459 Total financial assets 940 117,796 1,266 6,835 54,808 3,066 184,711 917 96,051 3,668 7,462 58,689 3,504 170,290 LIABILITIES Liabilities to credit institutions – 4,191 – – – – 4,191 – 2,973 – – – – 2,973 Deposits from the public – 95,513 51 1,143 62 – 96,769 – 76,544 20 22 54 0 76,639 Debt securities issued, etc. – 37,569 3,937 2,602 27,366 0 71,474 – 38,194 11,744 2,018 24,646 324 76,925 Derivatives – 347 –113 285 4,571 985 6,075 – 1,506 –2,057 535 5,773 1,021 6,778 Other liabilities 707 – – – – – 707 1,342 – – – – – 1,342 Subordinated debt – 4,741 – 200 998 – 5,939 – 5,038 1,726 – 1,180 – 7,943 Total financial liabilities 707 142,361 3,875 4,230 32,997 985 185,155 1,342 124,255 11,433 2,575 31,653 1,345 172,600 Difference assets and liabilities 233 –24,565 –2,609 2,605 21,811 2,081 –444 –425 –28,204 –7,765 4,887 27,036 2,159 –2,310 92 SBAB Integrated Annual Report 2016 Financial notes NOTE 2e Risk management NOTE 2f Risk management — Business risk — Operational risk By business risk, SBAB means the risk of declining earnings due to harsher competition, inappropriate strategies or erroneous decisions. Business risk includes strategic Operational risk means the risk of losses due to inappropriate or unsuccessful processes, risk, reputational risk and margin risk, which arise when the interest margins on lendhuman error, faulty systems or external events. The definition includes legal risk. ing and borrowing have different maturities. New business is usually relatively similar to the business SBAB already has. Risk management Changes in the form of new products or new markets may only constitute a small Within SBAB, risk management consists of uniform measurement and reporting of part of SBAB’s activities and must be implemented at such a pace that SBAB does operational risk. An analysis of risk levels in all operations is conducted on a regular not substantially jeopardise its profit level and with great probability avoids pressure basis and reported to the Board, the CEO and the Executive Management. The on its own funds. Operational Risk function within the Credit and Risk department has overall responAs the accounting standards used by SBAB require that certain components of sibility for the methods and procedures used for identifying, measuring, monitoring the portfolio are measured at market value while other components are recognised and reporting on operational risk. The management of operational risk is carried out at their carrying amount, this has effects on the operating profit/loss, and consebased on SBAB’s risk appetite and the significant processes for the business. This quently also on own funds, that do not correspond to the actual risk to which the entails constant efforts to improve the risk culture, and processes and procedures as portfolio is exposed. To limit such effects, income volatility is measured and limited, well as to provide the right tools to efficiently manage day to day operational risk. and mitigated through the use of hedge accounting. Business risk is included in the calculation of the Pillar 2 capital requirement as Self-evaluation part of SBAB’s stress tests. The self-evaluation process encompasses the identification and evaluation of operational risks in all significant processes. Self-evaluation is carried out using a shared method that includes system support. The result of the self-evaluation is reported annually to the Board, the CEO and the Executive Management. NOTE 2g  isk management — ConcentraR Incident management tion risk SBAB has procedures and system support intended to facilitate the reporting and follow-up of incidents. The Operational Risk function supports the operations with Concentration risk arises when major exposures or exposures in the loan portfolio the analysis of reported incidents to ensure that root causes are identified and suitare concentrated to certain counterparties, regions or industries. SBAB is primarily able measures are implemented. Even incidents that have not caused direct damconsidered to be exposed to credit-risk related concentration risk in its lending operage or financial loss are reported, to promote proactive risk management. ations. The concentration risk is calculated based on the size of the exposures, industry concentration and geographical concentration. The entire capital requirement New product approval policy (NPAP) for concentration risk is included in the economic capital for credit risk. Upon calcuSBAB has an NPAP in place for the implementation of new or significantly altered lation at 31 December 2016, the internally calculated capital requirement for conproducts, services, markets, processes and IT-systems as well as major operational centration risk was SEK 669 million (562), of which SEK 619 million (521) pertained and organisational changes at SBAB. The aim of the NPAP is the advance identificato credit risk in lending operations and SEK 50 million (41) to credit risk in funding tion and management of risks related to changes. operations. For additional information regarding SBAB’s concentration risk, please refer to the Capital Adequacy and Risk Management (Pillar 3) Report 2016. Security and contingency management At SBAB, security involves protecting customers, individuals, information and physical assets. Information must be kept confidential and be reliable and accurate, and it must be made available to the appropriate people as and when needed. SBAB’s security efforts include technical, organisational and administrative measures, which are based on the international information security standard ISO/IEC 27000. SBAB works in a pre-emptive manner to prevent security incidents that may affect the company’s ability to operate. The bank has an established contingency organisation that is responsible for crisis and catastrophe management, and communication in case of serious incidents, crises or disasters. In 2016, responsibility for security and continuity management was moved from operational risk to the operations unit. Risk and compliance coordinator As part of strengthening SBAB’s risk culture the bank has established a risk and compliance coordinator (RCC) in the first line. The RCC supports the business managers with a focus on risk management, process mapping, internal controls, incident management, and regulatory compliance. RCC initiatives are coordinated by a Regulatory Manager. Capital requirements for operational risks SBAB uses the standardised approach to quantify capital requirements for measuring and managing operational risk. This approach calculates the capital requirement based on 12–18% of the business area’s average operating income over the past three years. The capital requirements for operational risk are presented in the Capital requirements table (Note 2i). Integrated Annual Report 2016 SBAB 93 Financial notes NOTE 2h R isk management — Internal tal. However, if the economic capital for risks included in Pillar 1 is less than the capital requirements under Pillar 1 for a given type of risk, the capital requirements capital adequacy assessment under Pillar 1 are applied. Finally, consideration is given to the risk associated with deteriorating macro-ecoInternal capital adequacy assessment nomic conditions, which is illustrated in conjunction with stress tests. Within the framework of Pillar 2, the Basel regulations impose the requirement that Within the Pillar 2 framework, the risk-weight floor applied to Swedish residential banks’ management and assessment of risks must be satisfactory to ensure that the mortgages by Finansinspektionen in its supervisory practices is considered. Since banks can fulfil their obligations. To meet this requirement, the banks must have September 2014, the risk-weight floor has been 25%. The internal capital requiremethods that enable them to continuously evaluate and uphold capital in an ment is reported both including and excluding the risk-weight floor. amount, type and distribution sufficient to cover the risks to which they are or will Taken together, the above comprise the capital that, in accordance with Basel 3, become exposed. This is called the internal capital adequacy assessment process is required to meet all risks in the operations. Additional information on the internal (ICAAP). capital adequacy assessment can be found in the document “Capital Adequacy The ICAAP aims to identify, evaluate and manage the risks to which SBAB is and Risk Management 2016,” which is published on www.sbab.se exposed and ensure that the Group has sufficient own funds for its selected risk proFor the Parent Company, the internally assessed capital requirement amounted file. The ICAAP is revised annually to identify changes in the operating environment to SEK 5,132 million (5,525). and changed regulations and supervisory practices that continuously affect the bank’s performance. The amount of own funds required to manage the combined risk in the operations is based primarily on the calculation of SBAB’s economic capiEXCLUDING INCLUDING RISK-WEIGHT FLOOR RISK-WEIGHT FLOOR Internally assessed capital Internally assessed capital Pillar 1 requirement requirement Credit risk 2,656 2,656 2,656 Pillar 1 Market risk 126 126 126 Operational risk 291 291 291 Credit risk 1) 1,019 Market risk 1,118 1,118 Operational risk 91 91 Pillar 2 Risk-weight floor 0 6,532 Concentration risk 669 669 Sovereign risk 59 59 Pension risk 0 0 Capital conservation buffer 960 960 960 Buffers Capital planning buffer 2) 1,000 Countercyclical buffer 571 571 571 Total 4,604 8,560 13,073 1) In the internal capital requirement without taking the risk-weight floor into account, additional credit risks in Pillar 2 consist of SBAB’s estimated capital requirement in economic capital. Since the additional capital requirement for the risk-weight floor is larger than the additional capital requirement according to economic capital, only the risk-weight floor is included in the internal capital requirement with consideration for the risk-weight floor. 2) The higher of the stress test buffer and the capital planning buffer is included in the internally assessed capital requirement. After taking into account the risk-weight floor, the stress test buffer is calculated without consideration for risk migration in the residential mortgage portfolios and, accordingly, the required buffer is smaller. 94 SBAB Integrated Annual Report 2016 Financial notes NOTE 2i  isk management — Capital R SBAB primarily recognises credit risk in accordance with the internal ratings-based (IRB) approach, and operational and market risk in accordance with the stanadequacy analysis dardised approach. Net profit/loss for the period is included in the calculation of own funds and Tier 1 capital. Dividends calculated according to SBAB’s dividend Regulatory framework policy have been deducted. However, considering future capital requirements and New common regulations on supervisory requirements for credit institutions were the uncertainty regarding these, the Board of Directors proposes that no dividends adopted by the EU and have been applied since 1 January 2014. The purpose of be paid. the rules is in part to make institutions more resilient to new crises, and in part to The SBAB Group has no securitised loans of its own and has not contributed to raise confidence in the institutions’ ability to manage new crises. The regulations any other institution’s securitisation. include proposals for higher capital requirements, stricter demands on capital qualSection 2h contains a summary of the method used to assess the internal capital ity, the introduction of a non-risk-based metric (debt/equity ratio) and quantitative requirement. liquidity requirements. Within the framework of these regulations, Finansinspektionen has adopted a Own funds national risk-weight floor of 25% for residential mortgages to Swedish households SBAB’s own funds comprise equity as well as additional Tier 1 capital and Tier 2 within Pillar 2. Banks that are considered systemic will be subject to additional capicapital consisting of subordinated loans. SBAB’s own funds amounted to SEK 19,833 tal requirements. SBAB is not subject to these requirements. million (18,867) as per 31 December 2016. In April 2016, Finansinspektionen announced that a capital repayment requireOver the year, the CET1 capital was affected by the fact that net profit/loss for the ment would be introduced for new residential mortgages from 1 June. The requireperiod was added and the estimated dividend was deducted. The surplus has been ment entails that not less than 2% of the original loan principal must be repaid each verified by the company’s auditors, in accordance with Article 26, item 2, of the CRR. year on new residential mortgages with LTV ratios in excess of 70%. For loans with According to Article 35 of the CRR, the institution shall, except in the case of the an LTV ratio of less than 70% but more than 50%, at least 1% of the original loan items referred to in Article 33, not make adjustments to remove from own funds principal must be repaid each year. SBAB complies with the new loan amortisation unrealised gains or losses on assets or liabilities recognised at fair value. According regulations (FFFS 2016:16). to this Article, SEK 662 million (264) has been added to CET1 capital. Moreover, the rate of change in the regulatory frameworks has remained high. According to Article 33, item 1, of the CRR, part of the fair-value reserves related Over the year, the EBA and the Basel Committee presented additional proposals for to gains or losses on cash-flow hedges of financial instruments that are not meachanges aimed at increasing transparency and making institutions more resilient to sured at fair value, including projected cash flows, is not to be included in own funds. disruptions in the market. Proposals have, inter alia, been submitted regarding The CET1 capital has been adjusted for SEK 526 million (236) in cash-flow hedges. changes in the Capital Requirements Regulation and new common reporting rules. Changes in fair value that depend on the institution’s own credit standing and Future rules in IFRS 9 will regulate a new method for credit-risk provisions, refer that are related to derivatives had an impact of SEK 31 million (25) on the CET1 to Note 1. capital, in accordance with Article 33, item 1b. With reference to Articles 34 and 105 of the CRR, SEK 67 million (67) has been SBAB’s capital deducted due to the requirements for prudent valuation. SBAB is well capitalised, and to retain a strong capital position, SBAB’s Board of A deduction of SEK 142 million (46) for intangible assets and a deduction of SEK Directors adopted a new capital policy in 2016. According to these new targets, 3 million (83) for net provisions were made in accordance with Article 36. Positive under normal conditions, SBAB’s CET1 capital ratio should be at least 1.5 percentnet provision of SEK 1 million (–) were added to Tier 2 capital in accordance with age points higher than the CET1 capital requirement communicated by FinansinsArticle 62. pektionen. In addition, under normal conditions, SBAB’s total capital ratio should be at least 1.5 percentage points higher than the capital requirement communicated The consolidated situation by Finansinspektionen. The bank is also tasked with meeting any other regulatory The table below lists the companies that are included in the consolidated situation capital requirements. By means of a strong capital position and good risk managewithin the SBAB Group. There are no on-going or unforeseen material obstacles or ment, SBAB meets the supervisory rules adopted by the EU. legal barriers to a rapid transfer of funds from own funds other than what is stipuDuring the year, SBAB acquired 69% of Booli Search Technologies AB. The aim of lated in the terms and conditions governing subordinated loans (see Note 32) or the acquisition is to strengthen SBAB’s position as an institution focused on housing, what is generally stipulated by the Companies Act. thereby increasing competitiveness within residential mortgages and housing financing. The acquisition had only a marginal impact on SBAB’s capital. COMPANIES INCLUDED IN THE CONSOLIDATED SITUATION Corporate Consolidation Consolidation Registration Ownership method used method used Company Number share in the accounts for capital adequacy Company description SBAB Bank AB (publ) 556253-7513 Parent Company – – Institution AB Sveriges Säkerstallda Obligationer (publ) (Swedish Covered Bond Corporation — SCBC) 56645-9755 100% Fully consolidated Acquisition method Institution IT company Booli Search Technologies AB 556733-0567 69% Fully consolidated Acquisition method (associated company) Subordinated loans and conditions for subordinated loans in accordance with Commission ImplementSubordinated debt may be included in the calculation of Tier 1 capital if certain coning Regulation (EU) No 1423/2013. The complete terms and conditions for each ditions are present according to the transitional regulations of the CRR and if Finans­ subordinated loan are specified in the same place. For further information on suborinspektionen has given its consent. SBAB received such consent for four subordinated dinated loans, also refer to Note 32. loans with a nominal value of SEK 2,000 million (see Note 32), of which two loans totalling SEK 1,500 million were concluded during the year and included in own The consolidated situation funds as Tier 1 capital. Tier 2 capital amounted to SEK 4,447 million. No new loans Disclosure of own funds during a transitional period recognised as Tier 2 capital were included in 2016. Three previously concluded subDisclosures in accordance with Article 5 of Commission Implementing Regulation ordinated loans of SEK 2,000 million and were redeemed during the year. (EU) No 1423/2013. Subordinated loans are subordinate to the Parent Company’s other liabilities, No amounts are subject to the provisions preceding Regulation (EU) No and subordinated loans that are included in Tier 1 capital are subordinate to other 575/2013 (“CRR”) or the prescribed residual amount according to Regulation (EU) subordinated loans. Please refer to the link under “Capital adequacy and risk manNo 575/2013. agement” at www.sbab.se. for a specification of own funds and the complete terms Integrated Annual Report 2016 SBAB 95 Financial notes Cont. NOTE 2i Risk management — Capital adequacy analysis OWN FUNDS GROUP, SEK million 31 Dec 2016 31 Dec 2015 CET1 capital instruments: Instruments and reserves Capital instruments and the related share premium accounts 1,958 1,958 Retained earnings 9,592 8,464 Accumulated other comprehensive income (and other reserves, to include unrealised gains and losses under the applicable accounting standards) 662 264 Tier 1 capital instruments 1,500 – Independently verified interim profits net of any foreseeable charge or dividend 942 697 CET1 capital before regulatory adjustments 14,654 11,383 CET1 capital: Legislative changes Additional value adjustments (negative amount) –67 –67 Intangible assets (net of related tax liability) (negative amount) –142 –46 Fair value reserves related to gains or losses on cash-flow hedges –526 –236 Negative amounts resulting from the calculation of expected loss amounts –3 –83 Gains or losses on liabilities valued at fair value resulting from changes in own credit standing –31 –25 Tier 1 capital instruments in equity –1,500 – Total regulatory adjustments to CET1 capital –2,269 -457 CET1 capital 12,385 10,926 Additional Tier 1 capital: Instruments Capital instruments and the related share premium accounts 3,000 1,500 of which classified as equity under applicable accounting standards 1,500 – of which classified as liabilities under applicable accounting standards 1,500 1,500 Amount of qualifying items referred to in Article 484(4) and the related share premium accounts subject to phase out from Additional Tier 1 capital – 994 Additional Tier 1 capital before regulatory adjustments 3,000 2,494 Additional Tier 1 capital: Regulatory adjustments Total regulatory adjustments to Additional Tier 1 capital – – Additional Tier 1 capital 3,000 2,494 Tier 1 capital (Tier 1 capital=CET1 + Additional Tier 1 capital) 15,385 13,420 Tier 2 capital: Instruments and provisions Capital instruments and the related share premium accounts 4,447 5,447 Credit risk adjustments 1 – Tier 2 capital before regulatory adjustments 4,448 5,447 Tier 2 capital: Regulatory adjustments Total regulatory adjustments to Tier 2 capital – – Tier 2 capital 4,448 5,447 Total capital (Total capital=Tier 1 capital + Tier 2 capital) 19,833 18,867 Total risk-weighted assets 38,413 38,244 Capital ratio and buffers CET1 capital (as a percentage of total risk-weighted exposure amount), % 32.2 28.6 Tier 1 capital (as a percentage of total risk-weighted exposure amount), % 40.1 35.1 Total capital (as a percentage of total risk-weighted exposure amount), % 51.6 49.3 Institution-specific buffer requirements (CET1 capital requirement in accordance with Article 92(1)(a) plus the capital conservation buffer and countercyclical capital buffer requirements, plus the systemic risk buffer, plus the systemically important institution buffers [G-SII buffer and O-SII buffer]) expressed as a percentage of the riskweighted exposure amount), % 8.5 8.0 of which: CET1 capital, minimum requirement, % 4.5 4.5 of which, capital conservation buffer requirement, % 2.5 2.5 of which, countercyclical buffer requirement, % 1.5 1.0 of which, systemic risk buffer requirement, % – – of which, G-SII buffer and O-SII buffer, % – – CET1 capital available to meet buffers (as a share of risk-weighted exposure amounts), % 27.7 24.1 Capital instruments subject to phase-out arrangements (only applicable between 1 January 2013 and 1 January 2022) Current cap on AT1 instruments subject to phase-out arrangements – 2,096 Amount excluded from AT1 due to cap (excess over cap after redemptions and maturities) – – Current cap on T2 instruments subject to phase-out arrangements – 910 96 SBAB Integrated Annual Report 2016 Financial notes Capital Risk exposure amount Capital requirements Risk exposure amount requirements CAPITAL REQUIREMENTS GROUP, SEK million 31 Dec 2016 31 Dec 2016 31 Dec 2015 31 Dec 2015 Credit risk recognised in accordance with IRB approach Exposures to corporates 12,106 969 10,795 864 Retail exposures 11,440 915 14,103 1,128 of which: exposures to SMEs 1,211 97 1,628 130 of which: retail exposures secured by immovable property 10,229 818 12,475 998 Total exposures recognised with the IRB approach 23,546 1,884 24,898 1,992 Credit risk recognised with the standardised approach Exposure to governments and central banks 0 0 0 0 Exposures to regional governments or local authorities or agencies 0 0 0 0 Exposures to multilateral development banks 0 0 0 0 Exposures to institutions 1) 1,907 152 1,526 122 of which, derivatives according to CRR, Appendix 2 1,903 152 1,505 120 of which, repos 3 0 14 1 of which, other 1 0 7 1 Exposures to corporates – – 15 1 Retail exposures 1,933 155 2,106 168 Exposures in default 12 1 7 1 Exposures in the form of covered bonds 3,384 271 2,957 237 Exposures to institutions and corporates with a short-term credit rating 19 1 15 1 Other items 561 44 730 58 Total exposures recognised with standardised approach 7,816 624 7,356 588 Market risk 1,571 126 1,856 149 of which, position risk 886 71 1,314 105 of which, currency risk 685 55 542 44 Operational risk 3,634 291 2,989 239 Credit valuation adjustment risk 1,846 148 1,145 92 Total risk exposure amount and minimum capital requirements 38,413 3,073 38,244 3,060 Capital requirements for capital conservation buffer 960 956 Capital requirements for countercyclical buffer 571 379 Total capital requirements 4,604 4,395 1) The risk-weighted exposure amount for counterparty risk according to CRR, Article 92, item 3(f), amounts to SEK 1,907 million (1,519). 2016 2015 Exposure Risk Exposure Risk AVERAGE RISK WEIGHT FOR CREDIT RISK before expoAverage before expoAverage RECOGNISED USING THE IRB APPROACH, creditExposure sure Capital risk creditExposure sure Capital risk GROUP risk after amount requireweight, risk after amount requireweight, SEK million hedge CCF (REA) ment % hedge CCF (REA) ment % Credit risk in lending portfolio recognised under the IRB approach Exposures to corporates 42,574 40,801 12,106 969 29.7 36,029 34,836 10,795 864 31.0 Retail exposures 287,316 263,459 11,440 915 4.3 305,509 271,213 14,103 1,128 5.2 of which, single-family dwellings and holiday homes 118,792 110,205 4,939 395 4.5 131,829 119,421 6,643 531 5.6 of which, tenant-owners’ rights 121,663 107,472 5,290 423 4.9 122,698 102,133 5,832 467 5.7 of which, tenant-owners’ associations 46,861 45,782 1,211 97 2.6 50,982 49,659 1,628 130 3.3 Total credit risk under the IRB approach 329,890 304,259 23,546 1,884 7.7 341,538 306,049 24,898 1,992 8.1 Disclosure of own funds during a transitional period. Disclosures in accordance with Article 5 of Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 1423/2013. No amounts are subject to the provisions preceding Regulation (EU) No 575/2013 (CRR) or the prescribed residual amount according to Regulation (EU) No 575/2013. Integrated Annual Report 2016 SBAB 97 Financial notes Cont. NOTE 2i Risk management — Capital adequacy analysis OWN FUNDS PARENT COMPANY, SEK million 31 Dec 2016 31 Dec 2015 CET1 capital instruments: Instruments and reserves Capital instruments and the related share premium accounts 1,958 1,958 Retained earnings 6,094 5,781 Accumulated other comprehensive income (and other reserves, to include unrealised gains and losses under the applicable accounting standards)) 118 –14 Tier 1 capital instruments 1,500 – Independently verified interim profits net of any foreseeable charge or dividend –350 –117 CET1 capital before regulatory adjustments 9,320 7,608 CET1 capital: Regulatory adjustments Additional value adjustments (negative amount) –70 –68 Intangible assets (net of related tax liability) (negative amount) –31 –13 Fair value reserves related to gains or losses on cash-flow hedges 27 5 Negative amounts resulting from the calculation of expected loss amounts –7 –49 Gains or losses on liabilities valued at fair value resulting from changes in own credit standing –31 –24 Tier 1 capital instruments in equity –1500 – Total regulatory adjustments to CET1 capital –1,612 –149 CET1 capital 7,708 7,459 Additional Tier 1 capital: Instruments Capital instruments and the related share premium accounts 3,000 1,500 of which classified as equity under applicable accounting standards 1,500 – of which classified as liabilities under applicable accounting standards 1,500 1,500 Amount of qualifying items referred to in Article 484(4) and the related share premium accounts subject to phase out from Additional Tier 1 capital – 994 Additional Tier 1 capital before regulatory adjustments 3,000 2,494 Additional Tier 1 capital: Regulatory adjustments Total regulatory adjustments to Additional Tier 1 capital – – Additional Tier 1 capital 3,000 2,494 Tier 1 capital (Tier 1 capital=CET1 + Additional Tier 1 capital) 10,708 9,953 Tier 2 capital: Instruments and provisions Capital instruments and the related share premium accounts 4,447 5,447 Credit risk adjustments 2 – Tier 2 capital before regulatory adjustments 4,449 5,447 Tier 2 capital: Regulatory adjustments Total regulatory adjustments to Tier 2 capital – – Tier 2 capital 4,449 5,447 Total capital (Total capital=Tier 1 capital + Tier 2 capital) 15,157 15,400 Total risk-weighted assets 31,484 33,295 Capital ratio and buffers CET1 capital (as a percentage of total risk-weighted exposure amount), % 24.5 22.4 Tier 1 capital (as a percentage of total risk-weighted exposure amount), % 34.0 29.9 Total capital (as a percentage of total risk-weighted exposure amount), % 48.1 46.3 Institution-specific buffer requirements (CET1 capital requirement in accordance with Article 92(1)(a) plus the capital conservation buffer and countercyclical capital buffer requirements, plus the systemic risk buffer, plus the systemically important institution buffers [G-SII buffer and O-SII buffer]) expressed as a percentage of the risk-weighted exposure amount), % 8.5 8.0 of which, CET1 capital, minimum requirement, % 4.5 4.5 of which, capital conservation buffer requirement, % 2.5 2.5 of which, countercyclical buffer requirement, % 1.5 1.0 of which, systemic risk buffer requirement, % – – of which, G-SII buffer and O-SII buffer, % – – CET1 capital available to meet buffers (as a share of risk-weighted exposure amounts), % 20.0 17.9 Capital instruments subject to phase-out arrangements (only applicable between 1 January 2013 and 1 January 2022) Current cap on AT1 instruments subject to phase-out arrangements – 2,096 Amount excluded from AT1 due to cap (excess over cap after redemptions and maturities) – – Current cap on T2 instruments subject to phase-out arrangements – 910 98 SBAB Integrated Annual Report 2016 Financial notes Capital CAPITAL REQUIREMENT PARENT COMPANY, Risk exposure amount Capital requirements Risk exposure amount requirements SEK million 31 Dec 2016 31 Dec 2016 31 Dec 2015 31 Dec 2015 Credit risk recognised in accordance with IRB approach Exposures to corporates 6,474 518 6,052 484 Retail exposures 3,172 254 6,247 500 of which: exposures to SMEs 351 28 648 52 of which: retail exposures secured by immovable property 2,821 226 5,599 448 Total exposures recognised with the IRB approach 9,646 772 12,299 984 Credit risk recognised with the standardised approach Exposure to governments and central banks 0 0 129 10 Exposures to regional governments or local authorities or agencies 0 0 0 0 Exposures to multilateral development banks 0 0 0 0 Exposures to institutions 1) 1,645 132 1,190 95 of which, derivatives according to CRR, Appendix 2 1,645 132 1,186 95 of which, repos – – – – of which, other 0 0 4 0 Exposures to corporates – – 15 1 Retail exposures 1,933 155 2,106 168 Exposures in default 12 1 7 1 Exposures in the form of covered bonds 3,384 271 2,957 237 Exposures to institutions and corporates with a short-term credit rating 16 1 19 2 Equity exposures 10,386 831 10,300 824 Other items 85 6 105 8 Total exposures recognised with standardised approach 17,461 1,397 16,828 1,346 Market risk 1,195 96 1,498 120 of which, position risk 887 71 1,314 105 of which, currency risk 308 25 184 15 Operational risk 1,478 118 1,709 137 Credit valuation adjustment risk 1,704 136 961 77 Total minimum capital requirements and risk exposure amount 31,484 2,519 33,295 2,664 Capital requirements for capital conservation buffer 787 832 Capital requirements for countercyclical buffer 467 330 Total capital requirements 3,773 3,826 1)The risk-weighted amount for counterparty risk according to the CRR, Article 92(3)(f), amounts to SEK 1,645 million (1,186). 2016 2015 Exposure Risk Exposure Risk AVERAGE RISK WEIGHT FOR CREDIT RISK before ExpoexpoAverage before ExpoexpoAverage RECOGNISED USING THE IRB APPROACH, creditsure sure Capital risk creditsure sure Capital risk PARENT COMPANY risk after amount requireweight, risk after amount requireweight, SEK million hedge CCF (REA) ment % hedge CCF (REA) ment % Credit risk in lending portfolio recognised under the IRB approach Exposures to corporates 18,990 17,360 6,474 518 37.3 17,189 16,137 6,052 484 37.5 Retail exposures 66,316 43,406 3,172 254 7.3 108,458 75,285 6,247 500 8.3 of which, single-family dwellings and holiday homes 25,929 17,344 1,450 116 8.4 44,882 32,593 3,105 248 9.5 of which, tenant-owners’ rights 33,766 19,575 1,371 110 7.0 51,055 30,490 2,495 200 8.2 of which, tenant-owners’ associations 6,621 6,487 351 28 5.4 12,521 12,202 648 52 5.3 Total credit risk under the IRB approach 85,307 60,766 9645 772 15.9 125,647 91,422 12,299 984 13.5 Integrated Annual Report 2016 SBAB 99 Financial notes Cont. NOTE 2i Risk management — Capital adequacy analysis GROUP PARENT COMPANY SCBC CAPITAL ADEQUACY SEK million 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 CET1 capital 12,385 10,926 7,708 7,459 15,162 13,906 Tier 1 capital 15,385 13,420 10,708 9,953 15,162 13,906 Total capital 19,833 18,867 15,157 15,400 15,165 13,906 Without transitional rules Risk exposure amount 38,413 38,244 31,484 33,295 18,401 16,151 CET1 capital ratio, % 32.2 28.6 24.5 22.4 82.4 86.1 Excess CET1 capital 10,656 9,205 6,292 5,961 14,334 13,179 Tier 1 capital ratio, % 40.1 35.1 34.0 29.9 82.4 86.1 Excess Tier 1 capital 13,080 11,125 8,819 7,955 14,058 12,937 Total capital ratio, % 51.6 49.3 48.1 46.3 82.4 86.1 Excess total capital 16,760 15,807 12,639 12,737 13,693 12,614 With transitional rules Own funds 19,835 18,950 15,162 15,449 15,162 13,940 Risk exposure amount 168,936 165,830 35,833 50,414 133,171 115,555 Total capital ratio, % 11.7 11.4 42.3 30.6 11.4 12.1 100 SBAB Integrated Annual Report 2016 Financial notes NOTE 3 Net interest income NOTE 5 N  et result of financial items measGROUP PARENT COMPANY ured at fair value/Net result of financial transactions SEK million 2016 2015 2016 2015 GROUP PARENT COMPANY Interest income Lending to credit institutions –24 –23 508 472 SEK million 2016 2015 2016 2015 Lending to the public 1) 5,117 5,643 926 978 Gains/losses on interestbearing financial instruments Interest-bearing securities 500 796 500 796 Securities measured at FVTPL Derivatives –992 –1,293 –634 –827 –43 –411 –43 –411 Total interest income 4,601 5,123 1,300 1,419 Change in value of hedged items in hedge accounting 691 1,505 387 516 of which, interest income from financial assets that is R  ealised gain/loss from financial not measured at FVTPL 5,308 5,698 1,649 1,528 liabilities –489 -113 –30 –31 Derivatives in hedge accounting –464 –1,406 –351 –458 Interest expense Liabilities to credit institutions 47 28 34 24 Other derivatives 112 307 110 295 Deposits from the public –515 –572 –515 –572 Loan receivables 240 113 69 7 Issued debt securities –3,262 –4,302 –676 –985 Currency translation effects 1 –2 1 –2 Subordinated debt –166 -279 –166 –279 Gains/losses on shares and Derivatives 2,261 2,474 420 585 participations measured at FVTPL – 8 – 8 Other –35 –30 –34 –31 Total 48 1 143 –76 Resolution fee2) –102 – -37 – Total interest expense –1,772 –2,681 –974 –1,258 The currency and interest-rate risk inherent in funding conducted in foreign currency is generally hedged throughout the maturity of the funding through currency of which, interest expense from financial liabilities that is interest-rate derivatives, known as basis swaps. According to IFRS, all derivative not measured at FVTPL –3,931 –5,155 1,357 –1,843 instruments are to be recognised at fair value. Major variations in fair value between reporting periods could result in significant Net interest income 2,829 2,442 326 161 changes in carrying amounts and hence also in capital adequacy. Changes in the 1) Includes interest income from doubtful receivables of SEK 3 million (2). form of losses/gains remain unrealised as long as the basis swap is not closed pre2) The resolution fee is a new fee payable to the Swedish National Debt Office and replaces the maturely. previous stability fund fee to the Swedish National Debt Office recognised under commission In cases where the derivative is held to maturity, earnings are not affected by the expense. accumulated changes, as the unrealised interest-rate-related value changes that affect the performance of each derivative contract starts and ends at zero. Most of SBAB’s basis swaps are held to maturity. An accounting effect also arises in SBAB’s securities holding, since the accounting policies that SBAB applies entail NOTE 4 Commission that parts of the securities’ assets are measured at fair value, while a large portion of SBAB’s liabilities are measured at amortised cost. Also in the case of securities assets, the unrealised interest rate-related value GROUP PARENT COMPANY changes that affect the result will be recovered over the remaining tenor, if the asset SEK million 2016 2015 2016 2015 is held to maturity and the issuer is able to make its payments. Most of SBAB’s securities are held to maturity. Commission income Commission on lending 27 25 17 15 Other commissions Total 42 69 36 61 68 85 67 82 NOTE 6 Other operating income GROUP PARENT COMPANY Commission expense SEK million 2016 2015 2016 2015 Commission on securities –62 –34 –39 –21 Stability Fund fees1) – –129 – –58 Administrative services on behalf of subsidiary – – 716 625 Total –62 –163 –39 –79 Other operating income1) 34 0 5 0 Net commission 7 –102 46 3 Total 34 0 721 625 1) The Stability Fund fee to the Swedish National Debt Office was replaced by the resolution fee from 2016, which is recognised in net interest income, refer to Note 3. 1) Other operating income primarily includes revenue from Booli. Integrated Annual Report 2016 SBAB 101 Financial notes NOTE 7 Personnel costs GENDER DISTRIBUTION AMONG SENIOR EXECUTIVES GROUP PARENT COMPANY GROUP PARENT COMPANY Board of Directors 2016 2015 2016 2015 SEK million 2016 2015 2016 2015 Women, % 26 38 40 50 Salaries and other remuneration –254 –225 –247 –226 Men, % 74 62 60 50 Pension costs –39 –44 –45 –45 Other social security expenses –91 –82 –90 –83 The Group includes the Board Members of the subsidiaries: Swedish Covered Bond Corporation (SCBC) and Booli Search Technologies AB. Other personnel costs –28 –25 –26 –25 Total –412 –376 –408 –379 GROUP PARENT COMPANY Restructuring costs amounted to SEK – million (1). Executive Management 2016 2015 2016 2015 Women 3 3 3 3 GROUP PARENT COMPANY Men 6 7 6 7 Salaries and other remuneraTotal number of employees in tion, SEK million 2016 2015 2016 2015 Executive Management 9 10 9 10 CEO –5 –5 –5 –5 Senior executives who report GROUP PARENT COMPANY directly to the CEO –18 –16 –18 –16 Form of employment 2016 2015 2016 2015 Other employees –231 –205 –224 –205 Total salaries and other Total number of employees at remuneration –254 –225 –247 –226 year end 510 471 485 471 of whom, women, % 51.8 53.5 52.6 53.5 Salaries and other remuneration for employees of Booli Search Technologies AB is of whom, managers, % 13.5 11.5 13.2 11.5 included in the Group’s expenses. Board Members who are employed by the Parent Company receive remuneration and pension benefits as a result of their employof managers, women, % 5.7 5.4 6.0 5.4 ment. No additional remuneration or pension benefits are paid for Board assignof whom, temporary ments. No remuneration was paid to the CEO of the subsidiary Swedish Covered employees, % 2.0 1.3 1.6 1.3 Bond Corporation (SCBC). The number of senior executives who reported directly to the CEO as per the end of the year was 8 (9). of whom, part-time employees, % 2.5 1.7 2.5 1.7 GROUP PARENT COMPANY Average number of employees 2016 2015 2016 2015 GROUP PARENT COMPANY Personnel turnover 2016 2015 2016 2015 Women 263 235 257 235 Men 239 208 227 208 Number of permanent employees who terminated Average number of employees 502 443 484 443 employment during the year 65 58 62 58 of whom, women, % 41.5 53.4 41.9 53.4 GROUP PARENT COMPANY of whom, 29 or younger, % 26.2 19.0 24.2 19.0 Sickness absence, % 2016 2015 2016 2015 of whom, 30–49, % 46.2 69.0 46.8 69.0 of whom, 50 or older, % 27.7 12.1 29.0 12.1 Total sickness absence 4.6 3.9 3.8 3.9 Women 3.3 2.3 2.3 2.3 Salary, remuneration and pension costs for the CEO Men 2.2 1.6 1.5 1.6 No company car or non-cash benefits were provided to the CEO. The company pays for a defined-contribution pension insurance plan corresponding to 30% of the 29 or younger 4.6 3.1 3.7 3.1 CEO's pensionable salary, although not longer than until age 65. 30–49 4.4 4.1 3.6 4.1 Salaries and other remuneration 50 or older 4.3 4.1 4.3 4.1 Fringe benefits (subsidised interest rate, company car and sickness benefit) to senior Proportion of long-term sickness executives who report directly to the CEO amounted to SEK 0.1 million (0.1). Salary absence compared to total and other remuneration were paid in the following amounts: sickness absence that exceeded 60 days 36.7 52.4 44.1 52.4 102 SBAB Integrated Annual Report 2016 Financial notes SALARIES AND OTHER REMUNERATION AND PENSIONS TO THE CEO AND OTHER SENIOR EXECUTIVES WHO REPORT DIRECTLY TO THE CEO 2016 Salary and other Title, SEK million Period remuneration Severance pay Pension cost Klas Danielsson, CEO 1 January–31 December 2016 4.7 1.4 Christine Ehnström, Chief Legal Counsel 1 January–31 May 2016 0.6 0.2 Christine Ehnström, COO 2 May–31 December 2016 1.6 0.3 Mikael Inglander, CFO 1 January–31 December 2016 2.6 0.8 Peter Svensén, CRO 1 January–31 December 2016 1.9 0.3 Elizabet Jönsson, Chief Retail Officer 1 January–31 December 2016 1.7 0.5 Tim Pettersson, Head of Corporate Clients & Tenant-Owners’ Associations 1 January–31 December 2016 1.6 0.4 Daniel Ljungel, Head of Partnerships & Business Development 1 January–31 December 2016 1.5 0.3 Carina Eriksson, Head of HR 1 January–31 December 2016 1.7 0.5 Klas Ljungkvist, CIO 1 January–31 December 2016 2.0 0.4 Bror-Göran Pettersson, COO 1 January–1 May 2016 0.4 0.1 Marie Ljungholm, Chief Compliance Officer 1 January–31 December 2016 1.3 0.3 Michael Sparreskog, Head of Internal Audit 1 January–31 December 2016 1.3 0.3 22.9 5.8 SBAB completed a reorganisation on 2 May. The new organisation has two business unit after the reorganisation. All responsibility for risk and credit granting to retail areas: Corporate Clients & Tenant-Owners’ Associations and Retail. The Retail customers is included under the Retail Market. Operations became one unit with business area includes the Retail Market, Booli and the new Partnerships & Business much greater and broader responsibility and, accordingly, a new manager, Chief Development unit. The former Partner Market unit was included in the Retail Market Operating Officer Christine Ehnström. 2015 Salary and other Title, SEK million Period remuneration Severance pay Pension cost Klas Danielsson, CEO 1 January–31 December 2015 4.6 1.4 Christine Ehnström, Chief Legal Counsel 1 January–31 December 2015 1.9 0.5 Mikael Inglander, CFO 1 January–31 December 2015 2.5 0.7 Peter Svensén, CRO 1 January–31 December 2015 1.6 0.4 Elizabet Jönsson, Head of Retail Market 8 June–31 December 2015 0.8 0.1 Håkan Höijer, Head of Retail Market 1 January–7 June 2015 0.6 0.2 Elizabet Jönsson, Head of Communication & Business Development Officer 1 March–7 June 2015 0.4 0.3 Bror-Göran Pettersson, COO 1 January–31 December 2015 1.2 0.4 Daniel Ljungel, Head of Partner Market 1 March–31 December 2015 1.0 0.2 Carina Eriksson, Head of HR 15 June–31 December 2015 0.9 0.3 Catharina Kandel, Head of HR 1 January–29 May 2015 0.2 1.1 0.1 Per O Dahlstedt, Head of Corporate Clients & TenantOwners’ Associations 1 January–30 September 2015 1.7 0.3 Tim Pettersson, Head of Corporate Clients & Tenant-Owners’ Associations 1 October–31 December 2015 0.4 0.1 Marie Ljungholm, Chief Compliance Officer 1 January–31 December 2015 1.3 0.3 Michael Sparreskog, Head of Internal Audit 1 January–31 December 2015 1.2 0.3 20.3 1.1 5.6 After preparation by SBAB’s Remuneration Committee and based on the risk analyRemuneration to the Board sis for SBAB’s remuneration system, the Board decided on an updated remuneration The remuneration paid to Board Members is resolved by the Annual General Meetpolicy and the identification of specially regulated personnel, in accordance with ing. Fees paid to Board Members in the Parent Company amounted to SEK 2.0 milFinansinspektionen’s regulations regarding remuneration structures in credit institulion (1.8) for Board work and SEK 0.3 million (0.3) for work on committees. tions, investment firms and fund management companies licensed to conduct disBoard Members who served on a committee received SEK 3,500 per committee cretionary portfolio management (FFFS 2011:1). Risk analyses for SBAB’s remunermeeting attended. The fees paid to the Chairman of the Board amounted to SEK ation system and remuneration policy are published on sbab.se. The composition 0.6 million (0.4). and mandates of the Remuneration Committee are described on page 64. Two of the six Board Members elected by the Annual General Meeting received Salaries and other remuneration to specially regulated personnel, 14 employees fees amounting to SEK 0.6 million (0.3) each, and the remaining Board Members (14), excluding senior executives who report directly to the CEO, amounted to SEK elected by the General meeting received fees of SEK 0.2 million (0.2). No fees were 10.4 million (9.4). paid to Board Members employed by the Parent Company or the Government Offices or to the employee representatives who are members of the Board. Integrated Annual Report 2016 SBAB 103 Financial notes Cont. NOTE 7 Personnel costs Pensions Employees recruited to SBAB from 1 February 2013 are covered by the new collecNOTE 8 Other expenses tive pension plan BTP1, which is a defined-contribution plan. The plan encompasses disability and survivor pensions, as well as provisions for retirement pensions. In BTP1, GROUP PARENT COMPANY employees have a high degree of self-determination in how premiums are invested. SEK million 2016 2015 2016 2015 Employees recruited to SBAB before 1 February 2013 are covered by the BTP2 collective pension plan, which is a defined-benefit plan. BTP2 entails that the IT expenses –214 –180 –220 –192 employee is guaranteed a lifelong pension corresponding to a specified percentage of the employee’s final salary and mainly comprises retirement pension, disability Rent 1) –26 –26 –26 –26 pension, survivors’ pension, supplementary pension (BTPK) and, where applicable, Other costs for premises –11 –26 –9 –26 family pension. The levels of remuneration vary for salaries within different income base amounts. Or salaries over 30 income base amounts, no pension is payable Other administrative expenses –119 –115 –115 –113 under BTP2. Employees who earn more than ten income base amounts are provided Marketing –63 –40 –62 –40 the possibility of selecting an alternative investment for part of the premium. BTP2 is a collective defined-benefit employer plan secured through insurance Other operating expenses –17 –15 –17 –12 with the insurance company SPP and comprise several employers. SPP is responsible Total –450 –402 –449 –409 for investing the pension capital of the BTP2 plan. The aim of the investment strategy is to obtain a high and consistent return while ensuring the investors’ guaranteed increase in value. Development expenditure amounted to SEK 97 million (84), of which SEK 9 million SBAB’s costs for its defined-benefit pensions amounted to SEK 22.0 million (14) pertained to internally produced intangible Group assets. Most of the develop(33.8), excluding payroll tax. SBAB’s costs for its defined-contribution pensions ment work is pursued in project form and includes the budgets of entire projects, amounted to SEK 16.7 million (9.9), excluding payroll tax. In 2016, pension contriincluding such expenses as planning, analysis, specification of requirements, probutions for defined-benefit plans are expected to total SEK 21.0 million. Further gramming, implementation and quality testing, etc. information is provided in Note 28 Provisions. Restructuring costs amounted to SEK million (19). Guidelines adopted by the AGM for remuneration and other employment terms and conditions for senior executives GROUP PARENT COMPANY The AGM’s principles for remuneration and other employment terms and conditions Fees and expenses to auditors 2016 2015 2016 2015 for senior executives, which were adopted by the 2016 AGM, state that remuneration and terms and conditions are to be reasonable and well-considered. With Audit assignment –2.8 –2.1 –2.1 –1.7 regard to remuneration and other terms and conditions of employment, SBAB will continue to apply the “Guidelines for Terms of Employment for Senior Executives in of which, Deloitte –2.2 – –1.5 – State-owned Companies” as adopted by the Swedish government on 20 April 2009. of which, KPMG –0.6 2.1 –0.6 1.7 This remuneration should be competitive, with a set ceiling and appropriate for its purpose, as well as contributing to high ethical standards and a good corporate culAudit tasks in addition to audit ture. Remuneration should not correspond to a leading salary level in relation to assignment –1.8 –1.6 –1.5 –1.1 comparable companies but be characterised by moderation. This is also to provide of which, Deloitte –1.6 – –1.3 – guidance for the total amount of remuneration to other employees. Variable salary is not paid to senior executives. These guidelines were not amended in 2016. of which, KPMG –0.2 1.6 –0.2 1.1 Other services –0.0 –0.4 –0.0 –0.4 Other terms and conditions for the CEO and senior executives As regards pension conditions, notice periods and severance pay for senior execuof which, Deloitte –0.0 – –0.0 – tives, SBAB observes the principles stated in the government’s Guidelines for Terms of which, KPMG – 0.4 – 0.4 of Employment for Senior Executives in State-owned Companies (April 2009). The company pays for a defined-contribution pension insurance corresponding to Total –4.6 –4.1 –3.6 –3.2 30% of the CEO’s pensionable salary, although not longer than until age 65. During the year, an agreement was reached with the other managers who report The AGM on 28 April 2016 appointed Deloitte as SBAB’s auditors. The audit assigndirectly to the CEO regarding a defined-contribution pension premium correspondment includes examination of the annual report, the accounting records and the ing to 30% of pensionable salary. administration by the Board and CEO. The audit assignment also includes consulThere are no other pension agreements that deviate from the general rules of coltancy and other assistance resulting from such examination. lective agreements in the banking area. Audit tasks in addition to the audit assignment pertain to the examination of interim reports/year-end report and such other duties that may only be performed Agreements on severance pay by the signing-off auditor, such as the preparation of various types of certificates. The CEO and SBAB are subject to a mutual notice period of six months. With Other services pertain to consultancy services required at the initiative of SBAB. respect to severance pay, the agreement stipulates that if the company gives notice terminating the agreement and thereby the CEO’s employment, the company must — in addition to salary and pension during the notice period — pay severance pay GROUP PARENT COMPANY corresponding to 18 monthly salaries, all subject to deduction of any new salary. Should the employment be terminated by the company, remuneration of up to two Future rents 1), SEK million 2016 2015 2016 2015 years’ salary is paid, including the period of notice. Deductions will be made from the remuneration should new employment or income from another activity be Agreed future rents due for payment received during the two-year period. Five members of Executive Management have concluded severance pay agreements Within one year –24 –23 –24 –23 in case of termination by the company. In addition to salary and pension during the Between one and five years –95 –102 –95 –102 notice period, the company will pay severance pay corresponding to 12 months’ salary. Three members of Executive Management have concluded agreements on severance After five years –32 –47 –32 –47 pay in case of termination by the company. In addition to salary and pension during the Total –151 –172 –151 –172 notice period, the company will pay severance pay corresponding to six months’ salary. Deductions will be made from the remuneration should new employment or income from 1) Rents = operating leases. another activity be received during the six and 12 month periods, respectively. In 2016, SEK 2.2 million was also carried as an expense, of which SEK 0.9 million All of SBAB’s leases are in accordance with the Swedish Property Federation’s standard agreewas paid to a former senior executive who reported directly to the CEO. ment 12B.2 prepared in 2008 in consultation with the Swedish Association of Public Housing Companies, the Swedish Trade Federation and Visita. Revised in 2012 and 2014. This agreement regulates lease costs through an index clause covering rent and property taxes. The total sum of Loans to senior executives future rents pertains to fixed-term contracts. Loans to senior executives are presented in Note 36 Related party disclosures. Incentive programme SBAB has no incentive programme. 104 SBAB Integrated Annual Report 2016 Financial notes NOTE 9 Depreciation, amortisation and impairment of PPE and intangible assets GROUP PARENT COMPANY SEK million 2016 2015 2016 2015 Property, plant and equipment Depreciation, computer hardware –5 –6 –5 –6 Depreciation, other equipment –4 –6 –4 –6 Disposals/divestments 0 –3 0 –3 Intangible assets Amortisation, acquired software –7 –7 –6 –7 Amortisation, internally developed part of software –11 –9 – – Amortisation of trademarks 0 – – – Total –27 –31 –15 –22 NOTE 10 Net loan losses GROUP PARENT COMPANY SEK million 2016 2015 2016 2015 CORPORATE MARKET Individual provision for corporate market loans Write-off of confirmed loan losses for the year – –1 – –1 Reversals of previous provisions for probable loan losses recognised as confirmed loan losses in the end of year accounts – – – – Provision for probable loan losses for the year –0 –22 – –22 Recoveries of confirmed loan losses in prior years 0 0 0 0 Reversal of prior provisions no longer necessary for probable loan losses 4 0 4 0 Guarantees – – – – Net cost for the year for individual provisions for corporate market loans 4 –23 4 –23 Collective provision for corporate market loans Allocations to/unwinding of collective provisions 9 7 –0 3 Guarantees –3 –2 –3 –1 Net cost for the year for collective provisions for corporate market loans 6 5 –3 2 RETAIL MARKET Individual provision for retail market loans Write-off of confirmed loan losses for the year –2 –3 –2 –3 Reversals of previous provisions for probable loan losses recognised as confirmed loan losses in the end of year accounts 2 – 2 – Provision for probable loan losses for the year –0 –24 –0 –24 Reversal of prior provisions no longer necessary for probable loan losses 16 1 16 1 Guarantees –0 – –0 – Net cost for the year for individual provisions for retail market loans 16 –26 16 –26 Collective provision for retail market loans Write-off of confirmed loan losses for the year –11 –12 –10 –12 Recoveries of confirmed loan losses in prior years 2 2 2 2 Allocations to/unwinding of collective provisions –13 26 4 10 Guarantees –22 –12 –22 –4 Net cost for the year for collective provisions for retail market loans –44 4 –26 –4 Net cost for the year for loan losses –18 –40 –9 –51 Both write-offs of confirmed loan losses and reversals of write-offs for the year in accordance with the specification above pertain to receivables from the public. The net change in loans with individual provisions was primarily affected by the provisions for a tenant-owners’ association with its inherent consumer commitment having been reversed from loans with individual provisions and by several separate commitments with individual provisions having been settled by customers with no losses for SBAB. The net change in the collective provision was impacted by a change in the underlying approach for collective provisions, where two of the parameters included were adjusted in the third and fourth quarters. The guarantees pertain to received or expected receivables from the National Board of Housing, Building and Planning, insurance companies and banks. For additional analyses and information on loan losses, refer to Note 2a Risk management — Credit risk in lending operations. Integrated Annual Report 2016 SBAB 105 Financial notes NOTE 11 Tax NOTE 13 Lending to credit institutions GROUP PARENT COMPANY GROUP PARENT COMPANY SEK million 2016 2015 2016 2015 SEK million 2016 2015 2016 2015 Current tax –352 –232 19 – Lending in SEK 852 1,726 55,863 15,427 Deferred tax on changes in Lending in foreign currency 767 1,730 767 1,735 temporary differences –89 –98 –97 31 Total 1,619 3,456 56,630 17,162 Total –441 –330 –78 31 of which, repos 118 1,219 – – The effective tax rate differs from the nominal tax rate in Of the Parent Company’s lending to credit institutions, SEK 55,123 million (14,920) Sweden as below relates to a receivable from the wholly owned subsidiary, the Swedish Covered Bond Corporation (SCBC). These receivables are subordinated, which means that payProfit/loss before tax 2,011 1,492 355 –148 ment is received only after other creditors of the subsidiary have been paid. Interest-bearing securities that SBAB purchases with an obligation to sell at a preNominal tax rate in Sweden 22% –442 –328 –78 33 determined price are not recognised in the balance sheet, while the purchase price paid is recognised in the balance sheet under Lending to credit institutions. The Tax for prior years and other 1 –2 0 –2 securities are regarded as collateral received and can be pledged or sold by SBAB. In the event that the counterparty is unable to meet its repurchase obligation, SBAB Total tax –441 –330 –78 31 is entitled to keep the security. The fair value of collateral received in the Group was SEK 118 million (1,219), of which – (–) was pledged or sold, and in the Parent Effective tax rate, % 21.9 22.1 22.0 21.0 Company, it was – (–), of which – (–) was pledged or sold. NOTE 12 S  overeign bonds eligible as collateral, etc. GROUP PARENT COMPANY SEK million 2016 2015 2016 2015 Current assets Swedish state 17,746 11,141 17,746 11,141 Foreign states 2,746 3,171 2,746 3,171 Total sovereign bonds eligible as collateral, etc. 20,492 14,312 20,492 14,312 106 SBAB Integrated Annual Report 2016 Financial notes NOTE 14 Lending to the public GROUP PARENT COMPANY SEK million 2016 2015 2016 2015 Opening balance 296,981 261,445 81,207 43,866 Lending for the year 59,648 80,470 59,648 80,470 Transferred to/from Group companies – – –48,695 –17,017 Amortisation, write-offs, redemption, etc. –60,625 –44,923 –40,631 –26,047 Change in provision for probable loan losses 18 –11 48 –65 Closing balance 296,022 296,981 51,577 81,207 GROUP 2016 2015 AB Sveriges AB Sveriges Säkerstallda ObliSäkerstallda Obligationer (publ) gationer (publ) (Swedish Covered (Swedish Covered Distribution of lending by property type, Bond Corporation SBAB Bank AB Bond Corporation SBAB Bank AB including provisions, SEK million — SCBC) (publ) Total — SCBC) (publ) Total Single-family dwellings and holiday homes 92,858 14,414 107,272 86,943 28,790 115,733 Tenant-owners’ rights 87,864 14,732 102,596 71,638 24,560 96,198 Tenant-owners’ associations 40,316 10,306 50,622 38,431 13,926 52,357 Private multi-family dwellings 23,110 5,413 28,523 18,413 7,449 25,862 Municipal multi-family dwellings 213 27 240 349 121 470 Commercial properties 84 4,695 4,779 – 4,313 4,313 Other – 1,990 1,990 – 2,048 2,048 Total 244,445 51,577 296,022 215,774 81,207 296,981 Percentage of lending with a governmental or municipal guarantee, % 1 1 1 1 1 1 Average fixed-interest period, years 0.8 0.4 0.7 1.0 0.3 0.8 In the event of early redemption during the fixed-interest period, SBAB has the right certain cases, received government or municipal guarantees as collateral for the to receive interest compensation. In the case of retail loans, the amount of compenborrower’s commitments. The proportion of loans covered by this type of guarantee sation is based on the interest rate for the loan compared to the interest rate for is shown in the table above. mortgage bonds with a maturity that corresponds to the remaining fixed-interest A total of SEK 41,431 million (82,309) of SBAB’s lending portfolio, of which SEK period for the loan, plus one percentage point. For other loans, the reinvestment 5,833 million (23,294) in the Parent Company, was mediated by business partners. interest rate for comparable government securities is, in most cases, the comparable Loan commitments and other credit-related commitments are shown in Note 32. interest rate. In other cases, the comparable interest rate is specified in the current terms of the loan. In addition to mortgage deeds in pledged property, SBAB has, in GROUP PARENT COMPANY Doubtful loan receivables and provisions, SEK million 2016 2015 2016 2015 a) Doubtful loan receivables 134 170 134 170 b) Individual provisions for loan receivables 59 81 59 57 c) Collective provision for corporate market loans 1 11 0 5 d) Collective provision for retail market loans 175 161 78 99 e) Total provisions (b+c+d) 235 253 137 161 f) Doubtful loan receivables after individual provisions (a-b) 75 89 75 113 g) Provision ratio for individual provisions (b/a), % 44 48 44 34 For further information on doubtful and non-performing loan receivables, refer to Note 2a Risk management — Credit risk in lending operations. Integrated Annual Report 2016 SBAB 107 Financial notes Cont. NOTE 14 Lending to the public GROUP 2016 2015 SinSingle-famgle-family dwellTenantPrivate ily dwellTenantPrivate ings and Tenantowners’ multiings and Tenantowners’ multiDistribution of doubtful loan receivables and holiday owners’ associfamily holiday owners’ associafamily provisions by type of property, SEK homes rights ation dwellings Other Total homes rights tion dwellings Other Total Doubtful loan receivables, gross 15 64 23 28 4 134 19 90 27 29 5 170 Individual provisions for loan receivables –4 –12 –21 –18 –4 –59 –6 –27 –25 –18 –5 –81 Collective provision for corporate market loans –0 –1 – –1 –9 –2 –11 Collective provision for retail market loans –69 –93 –12 –175 –93 –58 –10 –161 Doubtful loan receivables after individual provisions 75 89 2016 2015 Individual proviIndividual proviIndividual proviIndividual provision for individusion for collecsion for individusion for collecChange in provision for probable loan losses, SEK ally measured tively measured Collective ally measured tively measured Collective million receivables receivables provision receivables receivables provision Provision at the beginning of the year –43 –38 –172 –21 –15 –206 Individual provision for the year – – –22 –24 Reversed from previous provisions 4 16 – – Individual provision utilised for confirmed loan losses – 2 – 1 Allocations to/unwinding of collective provisions –4 34 Provision at the end of the year –39 –20 –176 –43 –38 –172 NOTE 15 Bonds and other interest-bearing securities GROUP PARENT COMPANY SEK million 2016 2015 2016 2015 Distribution of holdings by issuer, etc. CURRENT ASSETS Listed securities Issued by public bodies Intergovernmental issuers 1,753 1,962 1,753 1,962 Other public issuers 7,157 6,903 7,157 6,903 Issued by other borrowers Swedish mortgage institutions 31,598 31,109 31,598 31,109 Other foreign issuers 5,657 6,895 5,657 6,895 Other foreign issuers (with government guarantee) 2,686 2,845 2,686 2,845 Total listed securities 48,851 49,714 48,851 49,714 Total 48,851 49,714 48,851 49,714 108 SBAB Integrated Annual Report 2016 Financial notes NOTE 16 Derivatives GROUP PARENT COMPANY 2016 2015 2016 2015 Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair value of Fair value of Fair value of Fair value of value of liabiliNominal value of liabiliNominal value of liabiliNominal value of liabiliNominal SEK million assets ties amount assets ties amount assets ties amount assets ties amount Derivatives in fair-value hedging Interest-rate-related — interest-rate swaps 3,171 1,014 169,217 4,051 929 170,181 887 422 53,291 1,081 171 51,522 Currency-related 827 273 22,981 2,595 2,070 44,046 372 38 8,551 1,142 873 14,184 Total 3,998 1,287 192,198 6,646 2,999 214,227 1,259 460 61,842 2,223 1,044 65,706 Derivatives in cash-flow hedges Interest-rate-related — interest-rate swaps 610 17 36,637 160 20 21,323 – 17 4,789 – – – Currency-related 1,305 1 43,865 35 393 27,901 369 1 12,296 – 65 5,613 Total 1,915 18 80,502 195 413 49,224 369 18 17,085 – 65 5,613 Other derivatives Interest-rate-related — interest-rate swaps 162 669 16,566 271 1,252 40,358 3,139 3,727 287,372 2,820 3,869 262,728 Currency-related 117 501 15,667 80 530 18,237 1,454 1,870 83,061 1,387 1,800 79,698 Total 279 1,170 32,233 351 1,782 58,595 4,593 5,597 370,433 4,207 5,669 342,426 Currency interest-rate swaps are classified as currency-related. GROUP PARENT COMPANY 2016 2015 2016 2015 Derivatives allocated by remaining maturity, Nominal Nominal Nominal Nominal carrying amounts, SEK million Fair value amount Fair value amount Fair value amount Fair value amount Maximum 3 months 460 40,864 58 30,345 –6 28,269 103 40,074 3–12 months –144 22,023 170 64,498 –64 32,794 –745 59,492 1–5 years 3,020 214,434 1,715 182,516 336 336,891 453 230,654 Longer than five years 381 27,611 55 44,687 –120 51,406 –159 83,525 Total 3,717 304,932 1,998 322,046 146 449,360 –348 413,745 NOTE 17 Shares and participations in Group companies PARENT COMPANY 2016 Corporate Registration Number of Share of equity, Carrying SEK million Number Cost Group contributions paid shares % amount Swedish credit institutions AB Sveriges Säkerstallda Obligationer (publ), Solna 556645-9755 10,300 – 500,000 100 10,300 Other companies Booli SearchTechnologies AB, Stockholm 556733-0567 86 – 222,796 69 86 2015 Corporate Registration Number of Share of equity, Carrying SEK million Number Cost Group contributions paid shares % amount Swedish credit institutions AB Sveriges Säkerställda Obligationer (publ), 556645-9755 10,300 – 500,000 100 10,300 Solna On 14 January 2016, SBAB acquired 70.92% of the shares in Booli Search Technologies AB. In Q4 2016, the existing option program in Booli was exercised, upon which SBAB’s shareholding fell from 70.92% to 69.34%. Integrated Annual Report 2016 SBAB 109 Financial notes NOTE 18 Intangible assets GROUP 2016 2015 SEK million Goodwill Trademarks Software Total Goodwill Trademarks Software Total Opening balance, cost – – 423 423 – – 403 403 Acquisition of subsidiaries 75 3 3 81 – – – – Acquisitions during the year – – 33 33 – – 20 20 Divestments and disposals during the year – – –335 –335 – – – – Closing balance, cost 75 3 124 202 – – 423 423 Opening balance, amortisation – – –204 –204 – – –188 –188 Amortisation for the year according to plan – –0 –18 –18 – – –16 –16 Divestments and disposals during the year – – 172 172 – – – – Closing balance, accumulated amortisation – –0 –50 –50 – – –204 –204 Opening balance, impairment – – –163 –163 – – –163 -163 Divestments and disposals during the year – – 163 163 – – – – Closing balance, accumulated impairment – – – – – – –163 –163 Net carrying amount 75 3 74 152 – – 56 56 PARENT COMPANY 2016 2015 SEK million Goodwill Trademarks Software Total Goodwill Trademarks Software Total Opening balance, cost – – 81 81 – – 74 74 Acquisitions during the year – – 24 24 – – 7 7 Divestments and disposals during the year – – –51 –51 – – – – Closing balance, cost – – 54 54 – – 81 81 Opening balance, amortisation – – –68 –68 – – –61 –61 Amortisation for the year according to plan – – –6 –6 – – –7 –7 Divestments and disposals during the year – – 51 51 – – – – Closing balance, accumulated amortisation – – –23 –23 – – –68 –68 Net carrying amount – – 31 31 – – 13 13 Refer to Note 39 Business combinations for information about goodwill, trademarks The year’s impairment testing of goodwill is based on the company’s assessment of and software from the acquisition of the subsidiary Booli Search Technologies AB. future revenue and expense trends over the next nine years and on the assumption Other software pertains to internally produced intangible assets, which are reported of a long-term growth rate of 1.5%. The discount rate for the year’s impairment testin the consolidated financial statements. Intangible assets are subject to impairment ing was 12% after tax, corresponding to a rate of 14% before tax. In the year’s testing on an annual basis. When impairment testing, the value in use is calculated impairment testing, there was a comfortable margin between the value in use and by discounting estimated future cash flows with a discounting factor that takes into the carrying amount for goodwill. The most significant variables for the calculation account risk-free interest and the risks associated with the specific asset. comprised the assumption of future revenue and expenses as well as the discount rate. No reasonable change in these assumptions would impact the carrying amount for goodwill. 110 SBAB Integrated Annual Report 2016 Financial notes NOT 19 Property, plant and equipment NOTE 22 Liabilities to credit institutions GROUP PARENT COMPANY GROUP PARENT COMPANY SEK million 2016 2015 2016 2015 SEK million 2016 2015 2016 2015 Opening balance, cost 183 187 183 187 Liabilities in SEK 498 1,565 – 275 Acquisitions during the year 5 9 5 9 Liabilities in foreign currencies 4,191 3,545 4,191 2,698 Divestments during the year –1 –1 –1 –1 Total 4,689 5,111 4,191 2,973 Disposals during the year –143 –12 –143 –12 of which, repos 498 1,233 – – Closing balance, cost 44 183 44 183 NOTE 23 Opening balance, depreciation –163 –160 –163 –160 Depreciation for the year Deposits from the public according to plan –9 –12 –9 –12 GROUP PARENT COMPANY Divestments during the year 1 0 1 0 SEK million 2016 2015 2016 2015 Disposals during the year 143 9 143 9 Consumers 65,501 56,061 65,501 56,061 Accumulated depreciation according to plan –28 –163 –28 –163 Tenant-owners’ associations 7,548 3,677 7,548 3,677 Net carrying amount 16 20 16 20 Corporates 23,720 16,901 23,720 16,901 Total 96,769 76,639 96,769 76,639 NOTE 20 Other assets GROUP PARENT COMPANY NOTE 24 Debt securities issued, etc. SEK million 2016 2015 2016 2015 GROUP PARENT COMPANY Tax assets 497 796 143 120 SEK million 2016 2015 2016 2015 Other 53 450 36 434 Commercial paper Total 550 1,246 179 554 Commercial paper in SEK Other assets distributed by – at amortised cost 301 320 301 320 remaining maturity, carrying amount Commercial paper in foreign currency Maximum 1 year 550 1,246 179 554 — at amortised cost 8,526 6,897 8,526 6,897 Total 550 1,246 179 554 Total 8,827 7,217 8,827 7,217 Bond loans NOTE 21 P  repaid expenses and Bond loans in SEK — at amortised cost 81,752 99,423 22,664 29,966 accrued income — in fair value hedging 76,579 73,601 6,011 5,270 GROUP PARENT COMPANY Bonds loans in foreign currency SEK million 2016 2015 2016 2015 — at amortised cost 50,416 35,793 17,504 12,584 Prepaid expenses 49 41 47 39 — in fair value hedging 29,833 48,171 16,468 21,888 Accrued interest income 786 930 700 831 Total 238,580 256,988 62,647 69,708 Accrued guarantees 14 39 6 26 Total debt securities issued, etc. 247,407 264,205 71,474 76,925 Other accrued income 17 16 8 8 of which, covered bonds 175,933 187,280 – – Total 866 1,026 761 904 The bond loan conditions in SBAB’s long-term funding programme include a possiPrepaid expenses and accrued bility for the bondholder to demand premature redemption of the holder’s bonds income distributed by remaining issued in such loan programmes if the Swedish state ceases to own the majority of maturity, carrying amount the shares in SBAB and the Swedish state, before such change in ownership, has not Maximum 1 year 862 1,000 752 887 taken steps to guarantee SBAB’s commitments ensuing from the bond loan or the bondholders have accepted this in such a way as is described in the current terms More than 1 year 4 26 9 17 and conditions. However, subordinated debentures and additional Tier 1 capital issued under the long-term funding programme do not include the aforesaid condiTotal 866 1,026 761 904 tions. Total funding under these programmes with the right to demand redemption amounted to SEK 61.9 billion (68.9) at 31 December 2016. Integrated Annual Report 2016 SBAB 111 Financial notes NOTE 25 Other liabilities NOTE 27 Deferred tax GROUP PARENT COMPANY GROUP PARENT COMPANY SEK million 2016 2015 2016 2015 SEK million 2016 2015 2016 2015 Trade payables 40 3 40 3 Deferred tax assets (+)/tax liabilities (-) for temporary Employee withholding taxes 9 8 9 8 differences in: Liabilities to employees 202 298 189 288 Stock of financial instruments –65 –25 –50 6 Other 96 474 96 474 Issued debt securities – 673 – 190 Total 347 783 334 773 Derivatives –148 –729 7 –184 Other liabilities distributed by Intangible assets –10 –9 – – remaining maturity, carrying amount Pension provision 14 3 – – Maximum 1 year 347 783 334 773 Loss carry-forwards – 38 – 38 Total 347 783 334 773 Other 2 2 2 2 Total –207 –47 –41 52 NOTE 26 A  ccrued expenses and Change in deferred tax Deferred tax in the income deferred income statement –89 –98 –97 31 Deferred tax attributable to GROUP PARENT COMPANY items recognised directly SEK million 2016 2015 2016 2015 against other comprehensive income –71 –53 4 3 Accrued interest expense 1,842 2,477 274 375 Total –160 –151 –93 34 Other accrued expenses 133 290 99 194 Deferred tax distributed by Total 1,975 2,767 373 569 expected maturity date, carrying amount Accrued expenses and deferred income distributed by remaining Maximum 1 year – – – – maturity, carrying amount More than 1 year –207 –47 –41 52 Maximum 1 year 1,975 2,767 373 569 Total –207 –47 –41 52 Total 1,975 2,767 373 569 112 SBAB Integrated Annual Report 2016 Financial notes NOTE 28 Provisions DISTRIBUTION OF PLAN ASSETS GROUP GROUP % 2016 2015 SEK million 2016 2015 Swedish shares 2 4 Pension provisions –52 –12 Foreign shares 2 4 Provision for special employer’s contribution on pensions –13 –3 Government and government-guaranteed bonds 32 31 Total –65 –15 Mortgage institutions 24 24 Corporate bonds 32 31 PENSION PROVISIONS Real estate and infrastructure 8 6 GROUP Total 100 100 Summary of defined-benefit pension plan, SEK million 2016 2015 The defined-benefit pension plan is secured through insurance with SPP Pension och Forsakring AB. Through investments in shares, interest-bearing instruments and Present value of the obligation, closing balance –390 326 property, the insurance capital will track the performance of the financial markets. The aim of the management is to achieve a high and consistent return while ensurFair value of plan assets –338 –314 ing a guaranteed increase in value. Pension provisions (excl. special employer’s contributions) 52 12 FINANCIAL AND DEMOGRAPHIC ASSUMPTIONS RECONCILIATION OF CHANGE IN PRESENT VALUE OF OBLIGATION GROUP GROUP % 2016 2015 SEK million 2016 2015 Financial assumptions Present value of the obligation, opening balance 326 372 Discount rate 2.90 3.70 Service costs during the current year 7 11 Annual salary increase 3.00 3.00 Interest expense 12 11 Annual inflation 2.00 2.00 Gain/loss arising from changed financial assumptions 57 –50 Annual increase in income base amount 3.00 3.00 Experience-based gains/losses –3 –3 Annual increase in pension disbursements 2.00 2.00 Pension disbursements from plan –9 –6 Demographic assumptions Gain/loss due to demographic assumptions – –9 Personnel turnover 9.00 9.00 Present value of the obligation, closing balance 390 326 Mortality table DUS14 DUS14 The weighted average maturity of the defined-benefit obligation is 19.77 years. SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS OF ASSUMPTIONS RECONCILIATION OF CHANGE IN PLAN ASSETS GROUP GROUP Discount rate, SEK million 2016 SEK million 2016 2015 Assumption, % 3.90 Fair value of plan assets, opening balance 314 301 Interest income 11 9 Present value of the obligation 321 Return on plan assets, excluding amounts included in Service costs during the current period 6 interest expense/interest income 8 –4 Interest expense 12 Premiums paid by employer 14 14 Assumption, % 1.90 Pension disbursements from plan –9 –6 Present value of the obligation 484 Fair value of plan assets, closing balance 338 314 Service costs during the current period 10 Interest expense 9 The sensitivity analysis above is based on a change in one assumption while all other assumptions are kept constant. In the calculation of sensitivity in the defined-benefit obligation, the same method is applied as in the calculation of the reported pension provision. For further information on pensions, see Note 1 Accounting policies and Note 7 Personnel costs. Integrated Annual Report 2016 SBAB 113 Financial notes NOTE 29 Subordinated debt and capital instruments PARENT COMPANY AND GROUP First possible CARRYING AMOUNT, SEK million Nominal redemption CurNominal amount right Interest rate, % Loan designation rency amount outstanding for SBAB 31 December 2016 Maturity date 2016 2015 SUBORDINATED DEBT Subordinated loan SEK 1 1) SEK 700,000,000 – 2016 5.220 Perpetual – 714 Subordinated loan SEK 2 1) SEK 300,000,000 – 2016 3 M STIBOR + 0.930 Perpetual – 300 Subordinated loan SEK 3 2) SEK 1,000,000,000 – 2016 6.123 20 May 2021 – 1,011 Subordinated loan SEK 4 SEK 800,000,000 800,000,000 2017 3 M STIBOR + 2.650 16 Nov 2022 800 800 Subordinated loan SEK 5 3) SEK 200,000,000 200,000,000 2017 4.180 16 Nov 2022 200 200 Subordinated loan SEK 6 4) SEK 400,000,000 400,000,000 2020 3.825 Perpetual 397 397 Subordinated loan SEK 7 SEK 1,100,000,000 1,100,000,000 2020 3 M STIBOR + 3.250 Perpetual 1,093 1,091 Subordinated loan SEK 8 SEK 1,000,000,000 1,000,000,000 2020 3 M STIBOR + 1.300 11 June 2025 998 997 Subordinated loan SEK 9 5) SEK 600,000,000 600,000,000 2020 2.250 10 Nov 2025 601 583 Subordinated loan SEK 10 SEK 1,850,000,000 1,850,000,000 2020 3 M STIBOR + 1.900 10 Nov 2025 1,850 1,850 TOTAL 5,939 7,943 ADDITIONAL TIER 1 CAPITAL (equity) Subordinated loan SEK 11 SEK 725,000,000 725,000,000 2021 3 M STIBOR + 4.75 Perpetual 725 – Subordinated loan SEK 12 6) SEK 775,000,000 775,000,000 2021 5.05 Perpetual 775 – TOTAL 1,500 – 1) The loan was repaid in full as soon as redemption was allowed, by 30 June 2016. 2) The loan was repaid in full as soon as redemption was allowed, by 20 April 2016. 3) Interest rate: For the period 16 November 2012 to 16 November 2017: 4.18% For the subsequent period: Floating interest corresponding to three-month STIBOR plus 2.65%. 4) Interest rate: For the period 16 March 2015 to 16 March 2020: 3.8245%. For the subsequent period: Floating interest corresponding to three-month STIBOR plus 3.25%. 5) Interest rate: For the period 10 November 2015 to 10 November 2020: 2.25%. For the subsequent period: Floating interest corresponding to three-month STIBOR plus 1.90%. 6) Interest rate: For the period 17 May 2015 to 17 June 2021: 5.052%. For the subsequent period: Floating interest corresponding to three-month STIBOR plus 4.75%. Subordinated loans are subordinate to the Parent Company’s other liabilities, which means that they carry entitlement to payment only after other unsubordinated creditors have received payment. The subordinated loans SEK 1, SEK 2, SEK 6, SEK 7, SEK 11 and SEK 12 are subordinate to other subordinated loans, known as additional Tier 1 capital. Under the applicable transitional rules, SEK 1 and SEK 2 comprised Tier 1 capital, but have been redeemed in full. The capital instruments issued in accordance with the more recent regulatory framework and which are included in own funds as additional Tier 1 capital comprised SEK 6 and SEK 7 (recognised as subordinated debt), and SEK 11 and SEK 12 (recognised as equity). Subordinated loans (capital instruments) that have not been redeemed are included in own funds when calculating the capital adequacy of the Parent Company and the Group. For further information on the terms and conditions of SBAB’s subordinated loans, see www.sbab.se and Note 2i Risk management — Capital adequacy analysis. 114 SBAB Integrated Annual Report 2016 Financial notes NOTE 30 Equity NOTE 31 Assets pledged for own liabilities The share capital amounted to SEK 1,958,300,000. At 31 December 2016, the GROUP PARENT COMPANY number of shares was 19,583 (19,583), each with a quotient value of SEK 100,000. SEK million 2016 2015 2016 2015 All shares are owned by the Swedish state. Dividends are proposed by the Board in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act and are resolved by the Loan receivables 240,086 211,420 – – Annual General Meeting. The Board proposes a dividend of SEK 628,105,142 for 2016, see Note 40. Further information on equity is provided in the “Statement of Other receivables 113 15 113 15 Changes in Equity” on page 75. Securities 1,249 – 1,249 – STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY Total 241,448 211,435 1,362 15 GROUP Of the assets pledged, SEK 240.0 billion (211.4) comprise the cover pool for covReserves, SEK million 2016 2015 ered bonds totalling SEK 175.9 billion (187.3). Loan receivables pledged as collateral mainly consist of the registered cover pool benefiting holders of covered bonds issued by SCBC and SCBC’s covered derivative Available-for-sale financial assets, opening balance –9 –4 counterparties. In the event that the company becomes insolvent, the holders of the Unrealised change in value over the year 216 –7 covered bonds and the covered derivatives counterparties have priority rights to the Reclassified to profit or loss during the year –18 0 pledged assets under the Covered Bonds Issuance Act and the Rights of Priority Act. Tax attributable to the change –44 2 NOTE 32 Available-for-sale financial assets, closing balance 145 –9 Contingent liabilities Cash-flow hedges, opening balance 236 100 Unrealised change in value over the year 793 –297 GROUP PARENT COMPANY Reclassified to profit or loss during the year –422 472 SEK million 2016 2015 2016 2015 Tax attributable to the change –81 –39 Contingent liabilities concerning future payments Cash-flow hedges, closing balance 526 236 Other contingent liabilities Defined-benefit pension plans, opening balance 37 –19 Loan commitments and other credit-related contingent Revaluation effects of defined-benefit pension plans –58 72 liabilities 36,829 47,949 36,829 47,949 Tax attributable to the change 12 –16 Other contingent liabilities – – 17,322 32,823 Defined-benefit pension plans, closing balance –9 37 Total 36,829 47,949 54,151 80,772 Total 662 264 Contingent liabilities distributed by remaining maturity PARENT COMPANY Within 1 year 32,640 44,583 49,962 77,406 Fair value reserve, SEK million 2016 2015 1–5 years 4,189 3,366 4,189 3,366 Total 36,829 47,949 54,151 80,772 Available-for-sale financial assets, opening balance –9 –4 Unrealised change in value over the year 216 –7 Excluding building credits of SEK 4,275 million (3,432), loan commitments and Reclassified to profit or loss during the year –18 – other credit-related contingent liabilities in the Group totalling SEK 32,554 million (44,516) were reduced to SEK 8,659 million (10,667) after taking into account the Tax attributable to the change –44 2 credit conversion factor, meaning the statistically calculated probability that the Available-for-sale financial assets, closing balance 145 –9 exposure will lead to disbursement of the loan. Excluding building credits of SEK 4,275 million (3,432), the corresponding figures Cash-flow hedges, opening balance –5 – for the Parent Company were SEK 32,554 million (44,516) and SEK 8,659 million (10,667), respectively. The Parent Company’s other commitments include an agreeUnrealised change in value over the year 58 –137 ment concerning a liquidity facility with the subsidiary, SCBC, through which SCBC Realised change in value, reclassified to profit or loss –86 131 may borrow funds from the Parent Company for its operations if the need arises. Tax attributable to the change 6 1 Cash-flow hedges, closing balance –27 –5 Total 118 –14 Further information on Reserves and the Fair value reserve is provided in Note 1 Accounting policies, in the sections “Available-for-sale financial assets,” “Cash-flow hedges” and “Pensions.” Integrated Annual Report 2016 SBAB 115 Financial notes NOTE 33 Classification of financial instruments GROUP Financial assets 2016 Assets measured at Available-for-sale Investments Total SEK million FVTPL (held for trading) financial assets Loan receivables held to maturity Total fair value Cash and balances at central banks 0 0 0 Sovereign bonds eligible as collateral, etc. 7,135 13,357 20,492 20,492 Lending to credit institutions 1,619 1,619 1,619 Lending to the public 296,022 296,022 297,118 Value changes of interest-rate-risk hedged items in macro hedges 396 396 – Bonds and other interest-bearing securities 9,101 28,554 11,196 48,851 48,913 Derivatives 6,192 6,192 6,192 Shares and participations Other assets 52 52 52 Prepaid expenses and accrued income 157 453 144 67 821 821 Total 22,585 42,364 298,233 11,263 374,445 375,207 2015 Assets measured at Available-for-sale Investments Total SEK million FVTPL (held for trading) financial assets Loan receivables held to maturity Total fair value Cash and balances at central banks 0 0 0 Sovereign bonds eligible as collateral, etc. 10,185 4,127 14,312 14,312 Lending to credit institutions 3,456 3,456 3,456 Lending to the public 296,981 296,981 298,353 Value changes of interest-rate-risk hedged items in macro hedges 549 549 – Bonds and other interest-bearing securities 16,275 24,115 9,324 49,714 49,708 Derivatives 7,192 7,192 7,192 Shares and participations – – – Other assets 1,246 1,246 1,246 Prepaid expenses and accrued income 255 455 224 92 1,026 1,026 Total 33,907 28,697 302,456 9,416 374,476 375,293 116 SBAB Integrated Annual Report 2016 Financial notes GROUP Financial liabilities 2016 Assets measured at FVTPL Other Total SEK million (held for trading) financial liabilities Total fair value Liabilities to credit institutions 4,689 4,689 4,689 Deposits from the public 96,769 96,769 96,769 Debt securities issued, etc. 247,407 247,407 249,331 Derivatives 2,475 2,475 2,475 Other liabilities 219 219 219 Accrued expenses and deferred income 1,952 1,952 1,952 Subordinated debt 5,939 5,939 5,967 Total 2,475 356,975 359,450 361,402 2015 Assets measured at FVTPL Other Total SEK million (held for trading) financial liabilities Total fair value Liabilities to credit institutions 5,111 5,111 5,111 Deposits from the public 76,639 76,639 76,639 Debt securities issued, etc. 264,205 264,205 265,160 Derivatives 5,194 5,194 5,194 Other liabilities 783 783 783 Accrued expenses and deferred income 2,767 2,767 2,767 Subordinated debt 7,943 7,943 7 974 Total 5 194 357,448 362,642 363,628 Integrated Annual Report 2016 SBAB 117 Financial notes Cont. NOTE 33 Classification of financial instruments PARENT COMPANY Financial assets 2016 Assets measured at Available-for-sale Investments Total SEK million FVTPL (held for trading) financial assets Loan receivables held to maturity Total fair value Cash and balances at central banks 0 0 0 0 Sovereign bonds eligible as collateral, etc. 7,135 13,357 20,492 20,492 Lending to credit institutions 1,507 1,507 1,507 Lending to the public 51,577 51,577 51,752 Value changes of interest-rate-risk hedged items in macro hedges Bonds and other interest-bearing securities 9,101 28,554 11,196 48,851 48,913 Derivatives 6,221 6,221 6,221 Shares and participations Other assets 36 36 36 Prepaid expenses and accrued income 157 453 39 67 715 715 Total 22,614 42,364 53,159 11,263 129,399 129,636 2015 Assets measured at Available-for-sale Investments Total SEK million FVTPL (held for trading) financial assets Loan receivables held to maturity Total fair value Cash and balances at central banks 0 0 0 Sovereign bonds eligible as collateral, etc. 10,185 14,312 14,312 Lending to credit institutions 17,162 17,162 17,162 Lending to the public 81,207 81,207 81,465 Value changes of interest-rate-risk hedged items in macro hedges 5 5 – Bonds and other interest-bearing securities 16,275 9,324 49,714 49,708 Derivatives 6,430 6,430 6,430 Shares and participations – – Other assets 554 554 554 Prepaid expenses and accrued income 255 103 92 904 904 Total 33,145 99,031 9,416 170,288 170,535 118 SBAB Integrated Annual Report 2016 Financial notes PARENT COMPANY Financial liabilities 2016 Liabilities measured at FVTPL Other Total SEK million (held for trading) financial liabilities Total fair value Liabilities to credit institutions 4,191 4,191 4,191 Deposits from the public 96,769 96,769 96,769 Debt securities issued, etc. 71,474 71,474 71,657 Derivatives 6,075 6,075 6,075 Other liabilities 206 206 206 Accrued expenses and deferred income 349 349 349 Subordinated debt 5,939 5,939 5,967 Total 6,075 178,928 185,003 185,214 2015 Liabilities measured at FVTPL Other Total SEK million (held for trading) financial liabilities Total fair value Liabilities to credit institutions 2,973 2,973 2,973 Deposits from the public 76,639 76,639 76,639 Debt securities issued, etc. 76,925 76,925 77,052 Derivatives 6,778 6,778 6,778 Other liabilities 773 773 773 Accrued expenses and deferred income 569 569 569 Subordinated debt 7,943 7,943 7 974 Total 6,778 165,822 172,600 172,758 Fair value measurement of financial instruments calculations conducted in connection with measurement are based on observable The measurement policies for financial instruments recognised at fair value in the market information. The main tools used are models based on discounted cash balance sheet are provided in Note 1 Accounting Policies. In the “Total fair value” flows. Issued debt securities and subordinated debt are measured at the Group’s column above, information is also provided on the fair value of financial instruments current borrowing rate, Level 2. For “Lending to the public,” where no observable that are recognised at amortised cost in the balance sheet. The carrying amounts credit margin data is available at the time of measurement, the credit margin on the for current receivables and liabilities have been assessed as equal to their fair valmost recent stipulated date of expiry is applied to set the discount rate, Level 3. ues. Investments held to maturity were measured at quoted prices, Level 1. For Lending to the public, issued debt securities and subordinated debt, fair value is established based on generally accepted valuation techniques. As far as possible, Integrated Annual Report 2016 SBAB 119 Financial notes NOTE 34 Fair value disclosures GROUP 2016 2015 Other Other observable Unobservable observable Unobservable Quoted market market data market data Quoted market market data market data SEK million prices (Level 1) (Level 2) (Level 3) Total prices (Level 1) (Level 2) (Level 3) Total Assets Sovereign bonds eligible as collateral, etc. 20,492 – – 20,492 14,312 – – 55,412 Bonds and other interestbearing securities 37,655 – – 37,655 40,390 – – – Derivatives – 6,192 – 6,192 – 7,192 – 351 Prepaid expenses and accrued income 609 – – 609 710 – – 710 Total 58,756 6,192 – 64,948 55,412 7,192 – 62,604 Liabilities – – Derivatives – 2,475 – 2,475 – 5,194 – 5,194 Total – 2,475 – 2,475 – 5,194 – 5,194 PARENT COMPANY 2016 2015 Other Other observable Unobservable observable Unobservable Quoted market market data market data Quoted market market data market data SEK million prices (Level 1) (Level 2) (Level 3) Total prices (Level 1) (Level 2) (Level 3) Total Assets Sovereign bonds eligible as collateral, etc. 20,492 – – 20,492 14,312 – – 14,312 Bonds and other interestbearing securities 37,655 – – 37,655 40,390 – – 40,390 Derivatives – 6,220 – 6,220 – 6,430 – 6,430 Prepaid expenses and accrued income 609 – – 609 710 – – 710 Total 58,756 6,220 – 64,976 55,412 6,430 – 61,842 Liabilities Derivatives – 6,075 – 6,075 – 6,778 – 6,778 Total – 6,075 – 6,075 – 6,778 – 6,778 Parent Company and Group Measurement based on observable market data (Level 2) In the table, financial assets and liabilities recognised at fair value in the balance Measurement aided by external market information other than quoted prices sheet are divided on the basis of the measurement methods used. included in Level 1, such as quoted interest rates or prices for closely related instruNo transfers were made between levels in 2015 or 2016. ments. This group includes all non-quoted derivatives. Quoted market prices (Level 1) Measurement based in part on unobservable market data (Level 3) Measurement at quoted prices in an active market for identical assets and liabilities. Measurement whereby a material component of the model is based on estimates or A market is deemed to be active if the price data is easily accessible and correassumptions that do not originate directly from the market. This method is currently sponds to actual regularly occurring transactions. The measurement method is used not used on any asset or liability. for holdings of quoted interest-bearing securities and for publicly quoted derivatives, primarily interest-rate futures. 120 SBAB Integrated Annual Report 2016 Financial notes NOTE 35 Offsetting disclosures GROUP Financial assets and liabilities covered by a legally binding agreement regarding netting or a similar agreement but that are not offset in the balance sheet. RELATED AMOUNTS NOT OFFSET IN THE BALANCE SHEET 2016 Provided (+)/Received Provided (+)/ Amounts reported Financial (–) collateral Received (–) SEK million in the balance sheet instruments — securities cash collateral Net amount Assets Derivatives 6,192 –1,518 – –4,015 659 Repos 118 –118 – – – Liabilities Derivatives –2,475 1,518 – 784 –173 Repos –498 118 380 – – Total 3,337 0 380 –3,231 486 RELATED AMOUNTS NOT OFFSET IN THE BALANCE SHEET 2015 Provided (+)/Received Provided (+)/ Amounts reported Financial (–) collateral Received (–) SEK million in the balance sheet instruments — securities cash collateral Net amount Assets Derivatives 7,192 –3,115 – –3,602 475 Repos 1,219 –1,219 – – – Liabilities Derivatives –5,194 3,115 – 1,530 –549 Repos –1,233 1,219 14 – 0 Total 1,984 0 14 –2,072 –74 Repos are recognised in the balance sheet under the headings Lending and Liabilities to credit institutions, respectively. For further information on offsetting, see Note 2b Risk management — Credit risk in treasury operations, the section on Counterparty risk. Integrated Annual Report 2016 SBAB 121 Financial notes Cont. NOTE 35 Offsetting disclosures PARENT COMPANY Financial assets and liabilities covered by a legally binding agreement regarding netting or a similar agreement but that are not offset in the balance sheet. RELATED AMOUNTS NOT OFFSET IN THE BALANCE SHEET 2016 Provided (+)/Received Provided (+)/ Amounts reported Financial (–) collateral Received (–) SEK million in the balance sheet instruments — securities cash collateral Net amount Assets Derivatives 6,221 –2,078 – –4,015 128 Repos – – – – – Liabilities Derivatives –6,075 2,078 – 784 –3,213 Repos – – – – – Total 146 – – –3,231 –3,085 RELATED AMOUNTS NOT OFFSET IN THE BALANCE SHEET 2015 Provided (+)/Received Provided (+)/ Amounts reported Financial (–) collateral Received (–) SEK million in the balance sheet instruments — securities cash collateral Net amount Assets Derivatives 6,430 –3,558 – –2,774 98 Repos – – – – – Liabilities Derivatives –6,778 3,558 1,530 –1,690 Repos – – – – – Total –348 – – –1,244 –1,592 NOTE 36 Related party disclosures SBAB Bank AB (publ) is a Swedish public limited company that is wholly owned by the Swedish state. Group companies The Swedish Covered Bond Corporation (SCBC) and Booli Search Technologies AB are to be regarded as subsidiaries and recognised in accordance with the acquisition method, which entails the elimination of internal transactions at Group level. Transactions with related parties have taken place at market terms. PARENT COMPANY GROUP COMPANIES TOTAL 2016 Assets/ Interest income/ Assets/ Interest income/ SEK million Liabilities Interest expense Liabilities Interest expense Lending to credit institutions 55,123 524 55,123 524 Derivatives 645 434 645 434 Other assets 2 – 2 – Total 55,770 958 55,770 958 Derivatives 3,826 –1,215 3,826 –1,215 Other liabilities 1 – 1 – Total 3,827 –1,215 3,827 –1,215 122 SBAB Integrated Annual Report 2016 Financial notes GROUP COMPANIES TOTAL 2015 Assets/ Interest income/InterAssets/ Interest income/InterSEK million Liabilities est expense Liabilities est expense Lending to credit institutions 14,920 493 14,920 493 Derivatives 1,233 445 1,233 445 Other assets 2 – 2 – Total 16,155 938 16,155 938 Derivatives 2,788 –818 2,788 –818 Other liabilities – – – – Total 2,788 –818 2,788 –818 Of the Parent Company’s other commission income, SEK 26 million (32) pertained The Parent Company also conducted administrative services on behalf of Group to the possibility for SCBC to utilise a liquidity facility at the Parent Company, refer companies for SEK 716 million (625), refer to Note 6. Under marketing, expenses of to Note 4. SEK 2 million pertained to the advertising spend, etc. in Booli. LOANS TO THE BOARD, CEO AND OTHER KEY SENIOR EXECUTIVES 2016 2015 SEK million Lending Interest income Lending Interest income Loans to key personnel CEO – – – – Board of Directors 5 0 3 0 Other key senior executives 5 0 5 0 Total 10 0 8 0 The CEO and the Board of Directors refer to the Parent Company. Wherever relesonnel. The ceiling for total capital debt on preferential terms is SEK 2,000,000 per vant, the managing directors and boards of other Group companies are included household on the condition that the loan is within 85% of the property’s LTV. On under “Other key senior executives.” preferential loans of up to SEK 2,000,000, a 2 percentage point discount is given Lending to Board Members of SBAB Bank AB (publ) or to employees holding key against SBAB’s current list rate. The preferential loan is taxable. The interest rate positions in the company may not occur on terms that are not available to other perreceived after the discount must not be less than 0.25%. 2016 2015 SEK million Deposits Interest expense Deposits Interest expense Deposits from key personnel CEO and other key senior executives 4 0 3 0 Board of Directors 2 0 0 0 Total 6 0 3 0 The CEO and the Board of Directors refer to the Parent Company. Wherever relevant, the managing directors and boards of other Group companies are included under “Other key senior executives.” Deposits from key personnel are made on the same terms and conditions as other deposits in the company. Integrated Annual Report 2016 SBAB 123 Financial notes NOTE 37 Operating segments Operating segments are reported in accordance with IFRS 8 Operating Segments, Market ceased to exist as a profit centre in conjunction with the organisational which means that the segment information is presented in a manner that correchange in 2016. The Retail Market includes loans for single-family homes, holiday sponds to that applied internally for monitoring and control purposes. The Group homes and tenant-owned apartments, as well as all retail deposits. Corporate Clihas identified the CEO as the chief operating decision maker and the internal ents and Tenant-owners’ Associations mainly include lending to multifamily dwellreporting used by the CEO to monitor and make decisions regarding the allocation ings as well as commercial properties. The item Net result of financial items meaof resources as the basis for the information to be presented. sured at fair value, which derives from the finance operations, has not been distribThe comparative figures for 2015 have been recalculated to reflect the organiuted and is included in Other. The expenses are allocated to the business areas, sational change that took effect in Q2 2016. The Retail operating segment includes using distribution quotas. the Retail Market and the Partner Market, which were previously reported as separate operating segments, and Booli, which was acquired in Q1 2016. The Partner GROUP 2016 2015 Corporate Corporate & Tenant& TenantOwners’ Owners’ Income statement by segment, SEK million Retail Associations Other Total Retail Associations Other Total Net interest income 2,221 608 – 2,829 1,859 555 28 2,442 Net commissions 39 2 – 41 –66 –36 – –102 Net result of financial items measured at fair value – 4 44 48 – – 1 1 Other operating income 0 0 0 0 – – 0 0 Total operating income 2,260 614 44 2,918 1,793 519 29 2,341 Salaries and remuneration –198 –59 3 –254 –173 –52 – –225 Other personnel costs –152 –44 1 –195 –143 –41 –1 –185 Other expenses –333 –84 4 –413 –279 –70 –19 –368 Depreciation of PPE and amortisation of intangible assets –22 –5 – –27 –27 –4 – –31 Net loan losses –13 –5 – –18 –23 –17 – –40 Operating profit 1,542 417 52 2,011 1,148 335 9 1,492 Standardised tax (22%) –339 –92 –11 –442 –252 –74 –2 –328 Profit after standardised tax 1,203 325 41 1,569 896 261 7 1,164 Adjustment for actual tax 1 0 0 1 –2 0 0 –2 Profit after tax 1,204 325 41 1,570 894 261 7 1,162 Return on equity, % 14.7 8.1 12.3 11.4 7.9 10.2 In relation to the statutory income statement, an expense of SEK 37 million The return on equity is calculated based on the earnings of each business area after (expense: 34) was transferred between the rows “Other personnel costs” and standardised tax (22%) and internally distributed capital. “Other expenses.” The cost refers to administrative consultants, which pertain to “Other personnel costs” in the internal monitoring. 124 SBAB Integrated Annual Report 2016 Financial notes NOTE 38 Five-year overview PARENT COMPANY SEK million 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 Interest income 1,300 1,419 2,758 3,243 4,162 Interest expense –974 –1,258 –2,423 –2,960 –4,032 Net interest income 326 161 335 283 130 Other operating income 910 552 1,124 778 811 Total operating income 1,236 713 1,459 1,061 941 Depreciation of PPE and amortisation of intangible assets –15 –22 –22 –20 –15 Other operating expenses –857 –788 –878 –851 –788 Total operating expenses –872 –810 –900 –871 –803 Profit/loss before loan losses 364 –97 559 190 138 Net loan losses –9 –51 1 –14 –34 Operating profit/loss 355 –148 560 176 104 Lending portfolio 1) 51,577 81,207 43,866 48,758 46,360 Other assets 143,567 99,466 113,069 112,937 115,668 TOTAL ASSETS 195,144 180,673 156,935 161,695 162,028 Deposits from the public 96,769 76,639 60,610 45,869 27,654 Debt securities issued, etc. 71,474 76,925 68,182 91,316 101,782 Other liabilities 10,973 11,093 13,495 10,310 17,543 Deferred tax liabilities 41 – – 133 65 Subordinated debt 5,939 7,943 5,946 5,791 7,052 Equity 9,948 8,073 8,702 8,276 7,932 Total liabilities and equity 195,144 180,673 156,935 161,695 162,028 CET1 capital ratio, % 24.5 22.4 28.4 35.3 29.7 1) The Parent Company continuously transfers loans to the subsidiary, Swedish Covered Bond Corporation (SCBC). Integrated Annual Report 2016 SBAB 125 Financial notes NOTE 39 Business combinations NOTE 40 Proposed appropriation of profits Acquisitions in 2016 SBAB posted a net profit for the year after tax of SEK 277,206,792. According to In December 2015, SBAB agreed to acquire 71% of the shares in Booli Search SBAB’s balance sheet, SEK 7,598,300,831 is at the disposal of the Annual General Technologies AB with affiliates (Booli). The day of taking possession was the 14 JanMeeting. uary 2016, which is the date on which control was obtained. For the remaining shares and issued warrants, both put and call options exist. The put option liability is calculated at the present value of the exercise price based on the option clauses in Tier 1 capital instruments 1,500,000,000 the contract and, as a consequence, the acquisition of Booli is recognised without any non-controlling interest at the day of taking possession. Reserves/Fair value reserve 118,304,814 Booli develops products and services focusing on the housing market. The compaRetained earnings 5,702,789,225 ny’s services include www.booli.se, which is one of Sweden’s largest real-estate search services with approximately 270,000 unique users per week. SBAB believes Net profit for the year 277,206,792 the acquisition will strengthen the company’s competitiveness, its position in the resTotal 7,598,300,831 idential mortgage market and the customer offering. Booli Search Technologies AB is a subsidiary of SBAB and will be a part of the Retail business area. Booli is operated as a separate business unit under the Booli trademark. The Board proposes that the earnings be appropriated as follows: Fair value recognized A dividend payment of SEK 32,074 per share, in total 628,105,142 Net assets acquired at the acquisition date: on acquisition Carried forward to next year 6,970,195,689 Property, plant and equipment 0 Total 7,598,300,831 Intangible assets, of which 80 – Databases/software 3 – Trademarks 3 – Deferred tax –1 – Goodwill 75 Accounts and other receivables 3 Cash and cash equivalents 7 Trade and other payables –4 Net assets and consideration 86 Fair value recognized The consideration consists of: on acquisition Cash 59 Liability to the owners of the remaining shares and warrants 27 At the time of acquisition, intangible assets have been identified and consist mainly of trademarks/domain names and software/databases. The acquisition also led to the creation of goodwill, which is attributable to synergy effects. The transaction costs related to the acquisition were charged to profit or loss under Other expenses. Analysis of the acquisition’s impact Fair value recognized on consolidated cash flows: on acquisition Consideration 59 Settled: Cash and cash equivalents (acquired) 7 Net cash outflows 52 126 SBAB Integrated Annual Report 2016 Sustainability notes SUSTAINABILITY NOTES Sustainability is reported as an integrated part of our Annual Report. Our sustainability reporting follows the Global Reporting Initiative’s (GRI) guidelines, G4 — Core option, and has been reviewed by the auditing firm Deloitte in accordance with the Assurance Report on page 137. NOTE 1 Information about the report Clients Dialogue with our customers is at the core of SBAB’s operations and all customer feedSBAB complies with the Swedish Government Offices’ special Guidelines for exterback comprises valuable information. Our primary communication channels are the nal reporting by state-owned companies, adopted by the Swedish Government on internet and telephone. Our customer centre in Karlstad answers questions regarding 29 November 2007. products and services, it also receives comments and suggestions. Irrespective of the communication channel, we always strive to give our customers professional, fast and Report profile polite service that exceeds the customer’s expectations. We conduct various types of In the 2016, we take a further step toward integrating sustainability-related inforcustomer surveys on an ongoing basis to obtain a clear understanding of customers’ mation with the financial information in our second endeavour to provide an Inteperception of the company. These include customer panels, focus groups and meagrated Annual Report. This report has been prepared in accordance with the Global surements of the customer loyalty metric, Net Promoter Score (NPS). Reporting Initiative’s (GRI) guidelines, G4 — Core option. We also measure customer satisfaction with the Reputation Index from Nordic Brand Academy and Svenskt Kvalitetsindex (SKI (Swedish Quality Index)). Report defined by the Board of Directors One channel that is becoming increasingly important for communication with the The Board of Directors have signed, and thereby submitted, the Integrated Annual company’s customers is social media. We maintain active dialogue with customers Report in its entirety. The formal Annual Report is to be found in specially marked via Facebook, Twitter, our own blogs and www.sbab.kundo.se. sections, which are also apparent from the table of contents. The Sustainability Customer dialogues are also conducted through personal meetings, customer Report, excluding the Corporate Governance Report, constitutes the remaining part meetings, information from SBAB’s Head Economist and housing economists in the of this year’s Integrated Annual Report. form of analyses and reports, the AGM, cr@sbab and www.sbab.se. CUSTOMER SATISFACTION — RESULTS FROM CONFIDENCE SURVEYS The Global Reporting Initiative’s (GRI) reporting framework We apply the Global Reporting Initiative’s framework for sustainability reporting, G4 — Core option, including GRI G4 Sector Disclosures, Financial Services. The sepaCustomer satisfaction 2016 2015 2014 rate GRI/COP index on page 131 sets out which parts of the Integrated Annual SKI Retail market 75.2 77.5 76.7 Report constitute SBAB’s Sustainability Report according to GRI. NBA Reputation Index 1) 64 65 62 UN Global Compact, Communication on Progress (COP) SBAB joined the UN Global Compact in 2009. SBAB’s commitment to the Global 1) Index figure in the Reputation Index from Nordic Brand Academy (NBA). The index measures the Compact means that SBAB reports its work on implementing the Ten Principles of popularity, societal responsibility and ethics of Swedish banks, as well as their trustworthiness and the Global Compact in an annual Communication on Progress (COP). The sepaexpertise. rate GRI/COP index states which parts of the Integrated Annual Report constitute SBAB’s Communication on Progress, which is based on the BASIC GUIDE CommuEmployees nication on Progress, GC Active Level, developed by the Global Compact. Motivated and committed employees are a prerequisite for our success and one of the most important drivers in meeting our adopted goals. We are a relatively small Audit and limited assurance report organisation with short decision paths, and where all employees are well informed The report defined by the Board of Directors clarifies which parts of SBAB’s Integrated about the company’s vision, objectives and results. We hold regular monthly and Report constitute the formal Annual Report, and therefore have been subject to audit. departmental meetings to inform and conduct dialogues with employees regarding The sections that do not constitute the Annual Report constitute SBAB’s Sustainability the performance trend, goals and other relevant and current issues that pertain to Report according to GRI and Communication on Progress and have been subject to a the company. The employees’ opinions are leveraged through employee surveys limited assurance review by the auditors in their entirety, except in the sections made and emplyee dialogues. The CEO has a regular blog on SBAB’s intranet that available through links. The Corporate Governance Report is subject to a statutory addresses current issues and the blog has an open comment function. review, which is less comprehensive than an audit or auditor’s review. Deloitte submits an audit report for the Annual Report and the Corporate Governance Report, and a Investors separate limited assurance report for the Sustainability Report/COP. Investors’ relationships to SBAB are largely based on confidence in our employees, the company’s business model and sustainable economic development. Our stratThe report’s scope and boundaries egy for sustainable business has also become increasingly relevant in pace with a The Annual Report comprises the Parent Company, SBAB Bank AB (publ). The growing number of investors integrating their sustainability aspects in their analyses wholly owned subsidiary AB Sveriges Säkerstallda Obligationer (publ) (Swedish and investment decisions. We have regular face-to-face meetings with Swedish and Covered Bond Corporation — SCBC) and the majority-owned subsidiary Booli international investors. The aim is to keep investors well informed about the compaSearch Technologies AB issue their own annual reports. The Sustainability Report ny’s financial performance, its bonds and strategies, and to give our vision of the comprises of the Parent Company, SBAB Bank AB (publ), and the wholly-owned economic trend for Sweden. For SBAB, investor dialogues mean greater undersubsidiary, AB Sveriges Säkerstallda Obligationer (publ) (Swedish Covered Bond standing of the issues they deem important. Corporation — SCBC). Owner SBAB is wholly owned by the Swedish government. Owner governance of SBAB is NOTE 2 Stakeholder dialogue exercised through general shareholder meetings, the elected Board of Directors in accordance with the Companies Act, the Articles of Association, and internal poliSince the bank was founded, SBAB has identified eight important stakeholder cies. SBAB applies the state’s ownership policy, whereby the government details its groups that affect and are affected by the bank’s operations: customers, the owner, assignments and objectives, the applicable frameworks and its position on key policy employees, investors, partners, suppliers, stakeholder organisations and the media. issues pertaining to corporate governance at all state-owned companies. The ownFrom a business perspective, the most important stakeholders in the short, ership policy also means that SBAB applies the Swedish Corporate Governance medium and long-term are the customers, the owner, the employees and investors. Code. Since November 2014, the government department responsible has been This priority has grown out of a recurring internal dialogue regarding the bank’s the Swedish Ministry of Enterprise and Innovation (formerly, the Ministry of Finance). business logic in the Board of Directors and the Executive Management. SBAB’s Chairman and CEO meet with the Swedish Ministry of Enterprise and InnoWe maintain ongoing communication, primarily with the most important stakevation semiannually to report SBAB’s performance, which also includes developholders, to set the right priorities in our business development and sustainability work. ments in sustainable business. Integrated Annual Report 2016 SBAB 127 Sustainability notes NOTE 3 M  ateriality analysis, material Sound finances As a bank, SBAB bears a particular responsibility. This involves both contributing aspects and how they are reported to our customers’ financial security and, as part of the financial system, ensuring the long-term sustainability of the country’s economy. Sound finances are a preIn 2013, an externally conducted materiality analysis identified the most relevant requisite for our ability to achieve this and to conduct business operations that are sustainability issues, risks and opportunities linked to business development within sustainable in the long term. the area of sustainability. 38 stakeholder representatives were invited to participate In the Sound finances focus area, the goals are mainly financial. SBAB’s in interviews. 11 interviews were conducted with customer representatives, the accounting and treasury department are responsible for the ongoing governance bank’s Board of Directors, employees, investors (including a representative of and follow-up of these goals. Socially Responsible Investors), banks, the bank sector and one stakeholder organiRead more under the Sound finances section on page 24. sation. All of the responsibility issues listed by SBAB’s stakeholders in the materiality Responsibility and transparency analysis are reported as material aspects. The issues are reported in three focus For SBAB, responsibility and transparency involve the promotion of responsible lendareas, according to the following: ing, marketing and sales. Through openness and transparency, we aim to improve • Sound finances (financial development and ethics) the reputation of the banking and financial sectors. Our responsibility as an • Responsibility and transparency (customer relations, communication, employees employer is another important element of the focus area. and business relationships) The goals within the Responsibility and transparency focus area primarily reflect • Sustainable housing (sustainable products and social responsibility). our responsibility as an employer and creditor. SBAB’s HR department is responsible for the ongoing governance and follow-up of the goals linked to SBAB’s responsibilThe above responsibility issues have been delimited in the report to include SBAB’s ity as an employer. SBAB’s Retail Market and Corporate Clients & Tenant-Owners’ direct efforts and are reported using at least one GRI indicator per material aspect Associations business areas are responsible for the goals linked to SBAB’s responsi(see the GRI/COP index, page 131). bility as a creditor. Environmental responsibility refers to the work on SBAB’s internal environmental Read more under the sections: Our responsibility as a creditor on page 26; and impact. It is therefore delimited to SBAB and reported in the notes. Three indicators Our responsibility as an employer on page 30. are reported, divided according to GHG scopes 1, 2 and 3. Sustainable housing Sustainability strategy review in 2017 SBAB has extensive experience and knowledge within property financing, and matMuch has happened in our macro-environment since 2013, we therefore initiated a ters related to homes and housing are deeply ingrained in the company's roots. new stakeholder and materiality analysis at the end of 2016. The analysis aims to Sweden faces numerous societal challenges that are economically, socially or enviensure that through our sustainability efforts, we drive and work on those issues and ronmentally related to housing. As we are highly committed to sustainable housing, areas of primary importance to our stakeholders and ourselves, and where we have we seek to contribute to positive societal development. the greatest opportunity to influence. This work is expected to be completed in The goals for the Sustainable housing focus area pertain primarily to SBAB’s spring 2017 and may result in changed objectives and new targets for our sustainproduct development and its financing of new builds. SBAB’s Retail Market and Corability agenda. In 2017, based on the completed stakeholder and materiality analyporate Clients & Tenant-Owners’ Associations business areas are responsible for sis, we will coordinate the vision, strategy, goals and activities, to ensure that the prithe goals linked to this area. oritised sustainability aspects more clearly support the business and our strategic Read more under the Sustainable housing section on page 36. direction, and are integrated into our business goals. For this reason, no sustainability goals are presented in this report for 2017. The strategy, overarching goals and measureable goals for each focus area are established in the company’s business plan. Goals and metrics are reviewed each year in conjunction with the business planning process. Our policy for sustainable NOTE 4 Responsibility and governance business is available at www.sbab.se. Within SBAB, the Board of Directors is ultimately responsible for ensuring that proactive, long-term efforts to achieve sustainable development are carried out within the company. The Board also adopts a strategy, objectives and a policy for sustainable business. Furthermore, the Board monitors and assesses SBAB’s sustainability efforts. The Sustainable Business function is responsible for developing a company-wide business plan for SBAB’s sustainability agenda, including a strategy, objectives and activities. The Executive Management presents the company’s strategic business plan, including its aims, direction and objectives for sustainability efforts, in conjunction with deciding the business plan and budget. SBAB has a Sustainability Council and a Sustainability Forum that meet regularly to thereby optimise the integration and focus of sustainability efforts. The Sustainability Council comprises the Executive Management and the Head of Sustainability (who convenes the meetings), and has been tasked with guiding SBAB’s sustainability efforts. The Sustainability Council takes decisions on priorities and strategic direction in accordance with the decided business strategy. The Sustainability Forum is a cross-functional working group tasked primarily with evaluating and prioritising larger and more significant ideas pertaining to sustainability. The efforts of the Sustainability Forum and the Sustainability Council at SBAB are supported by SBAB’s overriding business plan, current materiality analysis and the prioritised sustainability aspects. Governance, follow-up and responsibility by focus area The goals for the respective focus areas are measured and reported to the CEO and the Board each quarter. These goals are formulated within the framework of the annual business planning and responsibility for the relevance and measurability of these goals rests ultimately with the CEO. Based on the company-wide goals, operational goals and activities are identified and integrated into the business plans of each unit, thereby contributing to meeting the overarching goals for sustainable business. 128 SBAB Integrated Annual Report 2016 Sustainability notes NOTE 5 Environmental efforts NOTE 7 Marketing Communication We are a digital bank. We have no branch offices and are mainly reached by our Communication is a broad term that includes both financial reporting and customer digital channels and over the telephone. This enables us to avoid unnecessary transdialogue. Regardless of the occasion or target group, it is critical to how SBAB’s portation and the operation of a number of branch offices around the country, which brand is perceived in the market. For brand management to be effective in the longcontributes to the relatively small size of our direct environmental impact. But we still term, all communication must be coordinated and adhere to a number of overarchwant to reduce the impact we have. Since 2008, we have therefore measured the ing guidelines. company’s carbon dioxide emissions. SBAB’s Communication instruction regulates SBAB’s external and internal comAs employees, we contribute to the company’s ambitions by taking personal munication and information disclosure. This instruction also aims to ensure that responsibility and, for example, utilise the office’s waste sorting facilities, turn off SBAB’s information disclosure to the market is correct, relevant and complies with lights and computers when we leave, use paper and printing frugally, and travel by applicable laws and regulations. rail instead of air whenever possible. Each employee is also responsible for noticing, SBAB’s Direction for the marketing process aims to describe the work process driving and developing resource and energy-saving work methods that contribute to SBAB is to follow in its marketing activities. It is a tool aimed at ensuring compliance reducing the environmental impact. The property we rent in Solna holds silver certiwith applicable regulations. The direction is aimed at the personnel working with fication under the GreenBuilding standard. marketing and communication at SBAB. The table data shows greenhouse gas emissions expressed in carbon dioxide SBAB had no incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes equivalents, CO2e. Unless otherwise stated, we report in tonnes of CO2e. SBAB’s concerning marketing communication during the year. Greenhouse Gas Protocol Assesment is available in its entirety at sbab.se. EMISSIONS DIVIDED BY SCOPE NOTE 8 Organisations Emissions tCO2e 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 SBAB has been a signatory of the UN Global Compact since 2009. Each year a COP, Communication on Progress, is reported and published via Global Compact’s Total 185.5 158.6 170.9 200.2 161.7 website. Since 2012, SBAB has been a member of the Swedish Financial Coalition against Scope 1 16.9 13.7 12.6 10.0 11.5 child pornography. The Financial Coalition collaborates with ECPAT with the aim of Scope 2 26.1 54.5 86.0 89.4 71.7 preventing and rendering it more difficult to trade in pictures featuring sexual abuse of children through financial systems on the internet. Scope 3 142.5 90.4 72.2 100.8 78.6 EMISSIONS DIVIDED BY SOURCE Emissions tCO2e 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 NOTE 9 Policies and instructions Each year, SBAB’s Board of Directors adopts a number of policies at the statutory District heating 25.0 45.4 69.7 71.6 54.9 Board meeting. These are an important part of the internal governance and help Electricity 14.1 15.0 16.6 18.1 16.8 the company to create a consensus on company-wide issues and areas. For example, SBAB has policies on sustainable business, ethics, equality and Waste for incineration 2.5 0.2 0.1 0.1 0.1 diversity (which are available at www.sbab.se) as well as a policy aimed at preventVehicles 20.4 15.0 13.3 11.1 12.3 ing money laundering and the financing of terrorism. In addition to these policies, a number of guidelines adopted by the Executive Air travel 108.2 65.7 59.3 85.9 65.8 Management and the CEO also contribute to sustainable business. Examples of these are guidelines for the management of complaints, communication, work enviRail travel 1.5 1.3 1.1 1.2 1.1 ronment, bribery, bank secrecy, compliance and security. Vehicles used by employees 11.3 16.0 10.8 12.4 10.8 Taxi 1) 2.4 n/a n/a n/a n/a District cooling 1) 0.1 n/a n/a n/a n/a Total 185,5 158.6 170.9 200.2 161.7 1) New measurement for 2016 NOTE 6 Suppliers Our supply chain also includes suppliers of various services and materials. Examples of these are IT-systems, office materials and consultancy services. In 2016, we initiated a systematic project to continuously consolidate the number of suppliers and to review existing agreements to evaluate potential savings. This work was led by SBAB’s purchasing function, together with representatives of all SBAB’s business areas to ensure that our purchasing needs are coordinated. We developed a supplier code in 2016, which addresses SBAB’s view and expectations of our suppliers’ sustainability efforts and compliance with international guidelines and principles. This supplier code was established with SBAB’s suppliers in 2016. Around 20% of SBAB’s suppliers have accepted the code. We intend to continue developing our supplier code, which aims to secure increased focus on responsibility and sustainability across SBAB’s supply chain. Our aim over time, is to only enter into contracts with suppliers that comply with SBAB’s adopted sustainability criteria and to follow up compliance on an ongoing basis. Moving forward, our aim is to conduct internal training on the code for all management at SBAB and to ensure that all business-critical agreements are supplemented with the supplier code and/or a deviation form. Integrated Annual Report 2016 SBAB 129 Sustainability notes NOTE 10 Employee data 1) AGE DISTRIBUTION WOMEN/MEN LENGTH OF EMPLOYMENT WOMEN/MEN PERCENTAGE DISTRIBUTION (%) PERCENTAGE DISTRIBUTION (%) Age distribution at 31 December 2016 Women Men Total Length of employment at 31 December 2016 Women Men Total 20–29 8.5 10.4 18.9 <3 years 25.7 26.0 51.7 30–39 14.0 13.4 27.4 4–6 years 4.0 4.7 8.7 40–49 15.8 11.3 27.2 7–9 years 5.1 4.5 9.6 50–59 13.8 8.7 22.5 10–12 years 2.1 2.1 4.2 60–69 2.6 1.5 4.2 13–15 years 2.5 0.6 4.2 Total 54.7 45.3 100.0 >16 years 15.5 7.4 22.8 Total 54.7 45.3 100.0 KEY EMPLOYEE FIGURES Key figures 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 Total number of employees at the end of the year 2) 485 429 397 436 380 of whom, women2), % 52.6 51.7 55.6 55.0 55.3 Temporary employees 3), % 1.6 1.3 0.5 1.3 2.1 Part-time employees 3), % 2.5 1.7 2.1 2.1 2.1 Average age, years 41 41 43 42 42 People who left the company over the year 62 58 78 31 36 People who joined the company over the year 113 100 39 82 48 Personnel turnover, % 12 13 18 7 9 Equality Share of women on the Board of Directors4), % 36 50 50 50 50 Share of women in the Executive Management, % 33 30 43 33 40 Share of female managers, % 45 44 41 41 44 Proportion of male employees, receiving parental leave allowance, % 41 24 28 28 41 Sick leave and wellness Short-term sick leave, % 2.1 1.9 1.9 2 1.9 Long-term sick leave, % 1.7 2.0 0.9 0.7 0.2 Total sick leave, % 3.8 3.9 2.8 2.7 2.1 Use of health-promotion contribution by all employees, % 74 69 75 76 78 1) Employee data excluding the subsidiary Booli Search Technologies AB. 2) Number of employees expressed as full-time equivalents (FTEs), adjusted for sick leave and leave of absence. 3) Total number of employees at the end of the year. 4) Pertains to the Board of the Parent Company SBAB Bank AB (publ) 130 SBAB Integrated Annual Report 2016 GRI/COP index GRI/COP INDEX STANDARD DISCLOSURES UNGC princiDescription Page reference Comment/Omission ple Strategy and Analysis G4-1 Statements from the CEO and the Chairman 4, 58 Organisational profile G4-3 Name of the organisation 1 G4-4 Primary brands, products, and services 1, 44-51 G4-5 Location of the organisation’s headquarters 77 G4-6 Countries where the organisation operates 1 G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form 60-61 G4-8 Markets served 42-51, 77 G4-9 Scale of the organisation 40-53 G4-10 Total number of employees 1, 102, 130 These statistics are not broken down per region, as SBAB only 6 conducts operations in Sweden, which can be considered a single region G4-11 Percentage of total employees covered by collective bargaining All employees, except the CEO, are covered by collective bargaining 3 agreements agreements G4-12 The organisation’s supply chain 8, 129 4, 5 G4-13 Significant changes during the reporting period In Q4 2015, SBAB entered into an agreement to acquire Booli Search Technologies AB with subsidiaries (Booli). The day of taking possession was the 14 January 2016. G4-14 Application of the precautionary approach or principle 26-29, 127, 129 G4-15 Externally developed economic, environmental and social charters, 127 principles, or other initiatives G4-16 Memberships of associations 127, 129 Identified Material Aspects and Boundaries G4-17 Entities included or not covered by the report 127 G4-18 Process for defining the report content 1, 20-21, 127-128 G4-19 Material aspects identified in the process for defining report content 20-21, 127-128 G4-20 Aspect boundary within the organisation 128 G4-21 Aspect boundary outside the organisation 128 G4-22 Effect of any restatements of information provided in previous reports, There have been no significant restatements of information in and the reasons for such restatements comparison to previous reports G4-23 Significant changes from previous reporting periods There have been no significant changes in the scope and aspect in the scope and aspect boundaries boundaries in comparison to previous reporting periods Stakeholder Engagement G4-24 Stakeholder groups 20-21, 127-128 G4-25 Identification and selection of stakeholders 20-21, 127-128 G4-26 The organisation’s approach to stakeholder engagement 20-21, 127-128 G4-27 Key topics and concerns raised through stakeholder engagement, and 20-21, 127-128 how the organization responded to those key topics and concerns Report Profile G4-28 Reporting period 1 January–31 December 2016 G4-29 Date of most recent previous report 31 March 2016 G4-30 Reporting cycle Updated annually as at 31 December G4-31 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents 139 G4-32 The “in accordance”' option the organisation has chosen, the GRI 127, 131 Content Index and the reference to the External Assurance Report G4-33 Policy and current practice regarding external assurance 65, 127, 137 Governance G4-34 Governance structure 60-65 Ethics and integrity G4-56 Values, principles, standards and norms of behavior such as codes of 15, 29, 129 10 conduct and codes of ethics Integrated Annual Report 2016 SBAB 131 GRI/COP index SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES UNGC Issue in SBAB’s DMA* and Page Comment/ princimateriality Aspects indicators Description reference Omission ple analysis Economy Economic G4-DMA Disclosures on management approach 128 Financial Performance performance G4-EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 25 Social responsibility Environmental Emissions G4-DMA Disclosures on management approach 128 Environmental responsibility G4-EN15 Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions 129 7.8 G4-EN16 Energy indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions 129 7.8 G4-EN17 Other indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions 129 7.8 Social Labour Practices and Decent Work Employment G4-DMA Disclosures on management approach 128 4.5 Employees G4-LA1 Total number and rates of new employee hires and employee 102, 130 Deviation: statistics not broken down 6 turnover by age group, gender and region per region, as SBAB only conducts operations in Sweden, which can be considered a single region Occupational G4-DMA Disclosures on management approach 128 Employees Health and Safety G4-LA6 Type of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, 102, 130 It is only relevant for SBAB to report and absenteeism, and total number of work-related fatalities, by sick leave. Deviation: statistics not region and by gender broken down per gender or region Training and G4-DMA Disclosures on management approach 128 Employees Education G4-LA11 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and 31-32 Deviation: statistics not broken down 6 career development reviews, by gender and by employee category per gender or employment category Diversity and G4-DMA Disclosures on management approach 128 Employees Equal Opportunity G4-LA12 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees 102, 130 Deviation: statistics not broken down 6 per employee category according to gender, age group, minority per minority group membership group membership, and other indicators of diversity Human Rights NonG4-DMA Disclosures on management approach 128 1.2 Employees Discrimination G4-HR3 Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective actions 34 No incidents of discrimination were 6 taken reported during the year Community Anti-Corruption G4-DMA Disclosures on management approach 128 Ethics Business G4-SO4 Communication and training on anti-corruption policies and 29 10 relationships procedures G4-SO5 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken 29 No incidents of corruption were 10 reported during the year Compliance G4-DMA Disclosures on management approach 128 Ethics G4-SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of nonNo significant fines or sanctions monetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws and regulations were imposed on the organisation for non-compliance with laws and regulations Product Responsibility Product and G4-DMA Disclosures on management approach 128 Customer Service Labelling relationships G4-PR5 Results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction 11, 127 Marketing G4-DMA Disclosures on management approach 128 Communication Communication G4-PR7 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and 129 SBAB had no incidents of non-comvoluntary codes concerning marketing communication, including pliance with regulations and volunadvertising, promotion, and sponsorship, by type of outcomes tary codes concerning marketing communication during the year Compliance G4-DMA Disclosures on management approach 128 Ethics G4-PR9 Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws No fines of this nature were and regulations concerning the provision and use of products incurred during the year and services Product Portfolio G4-DMA Disclosures on management approach 128 9 Sustainable products FS8 Monetary value of products and services designed to deliver a 36, 53 9 specific environmental benefit * DMA=Disclosure on Management Approach 132 SBAB Integrated Annual Report 2016 The Board of Directors’ signatures SIGNATURES OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS The Board of Directors of SBAB hereby submit SBAB’s Integrated Annual Report, marked specially, provides a true and fair view of the development of the operations, which includes both the Annual Report and the Sustainability Report. The formal position and earnings, and describes the significant risks and uncertainties faced by Annual Report is to be found in specially marked sections, which are apparent from the Parent Company and the companies included in the Group. the table of contents. The Sustainability Report, excluding the Corporate GoverIn accordance with Chapter 6, Section 2, Item 2 of the Annual Accounts Act for nance Report, constitutes the remaining part of the year’s Integrated Annual Credit Institutions and Securities Companies, the Board considers the Company’s Report. equity to be sufficiently large in relation to the scope and risks of the operations. The Board and the CEO certify that the sections containing to the formal annual The information provided gives a true and fair view of the circumstances of the accounts and the consolidated financial statements were prepared in accordance Company and nothing of material significance has been omitted which might affect with the international accounting standard (IFRS) as adopted by the EU and provide the view of the Company created by the Annual Report. a true and fair view of the Group’s position and earnings. The formal annual SBAB’s Integrated Annual Report has been prepared in accordance with the accounts were otherwise prepared in accordance with generally accepted accountGlobal Reporting Initiative’s (GRI) G4 Core guidelines. It also constitutes SBAB’s ing policies and provides a true and fair view of the Parent Company’s position and Communication on Progress (COP) to the UN Global Compact. earnings. The Administration Report, which is provided on pages that have been Stockholm, 21 March 2017 Bo Magnusson Chairman Jakob Grinbaum Carl-Henrik Borg Lars Börjesson Vice Chairman Board Member Board Member Daniel Kristiansson Ebba Lindsö Board Member Board Member Jane Lundgren-Ericsson Karin Moberg Board Member Board Member Johan Eriksson Kristina Ljung Employee representative Employee representative Klas Danielsson CEO Our audit report was submitted on 21 March 2016 Deloitte AB Patrick Honeth Authorised Public Accountant Integrated Annual Report 2016 SBAB 133 Auditor’s Report AUDITOR’S REPORT To the general meeting of the shareholders of SBAB Bank AB (publ) corporate identity number 556253-7513 REPORT ON THE ANNUAL ACCOUNTS AND • F or provisions calculated on an individual basis we examined a selection of individual loan exposure in detail, and evaluated management assessment of the recovCONSOLIDATED ACCOUNTS erable amount. We tested the assumptions underlying the impairment, including forecast of future cash flows, valuation of underlying collateral and estimates of Opinions recovery on default. We examined a selection of loans that had been identified by We have audited the annual accounts and consolidated accounts of SBAB Bank AB management as potentially impaired. (publ) for the year 2016 except for the corporate governance statement on pages 60–69. The annual accounts and consolidated accounts of the company are • W e examined the sufficiency of the underlying models, assumptions and data used included on pages 40–59 and 70–126 in this document. to measure loan loss provisions for portfolios of loans with similar credit characterIn our opinion, the annual accounts have been prepared in accordance with the istics. Likewise we have examined the models, assumptions and data used for the Annual Accounts Act for Credit Institutions and Securities Companies and present collective impairment for incurred but not identified loss events. fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of parent company as of 31 • F inally, we assessed the completeness and accuracy of the disclosures relating to December 2016 and its financial performance and cash flow for the year then loan loss provision to assess compliance with disclosure requirements included in ended in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act for Credit Institutions and SecuIFRS. rities Companies. The consolidated accounts have been prepared in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act for Credit Institutions and Securities Companies and Application of hedge accounting present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the group as of 31 Several criteria’s in IAS 39 has to be fulfilled to be able to qualify for hedge accountDecember 2016 and their financial performance and cash flow for the year then ing, including documentation of the characteristics and purpose of the hedge and ended in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), as regular testing performed on the effectiveness of the hedge. Given the complexity adopted by the EU, and the Annual Accounts Act for Credit Institutions and Securiof the regulation for hedge accounting this is an area with higher risks for banks. ties Companies. Our opinions do not cover the corporate governance statement on SBAB has chosen to use hedge accounting for hedging of interest and currency pages 60–69. The statutory administration report is consistent with the other parts risk and applies hedging of fair value, macro hedge and cash flow hedges. of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts. At December 31, 2016, effects of hedge accounting in Net result of financial We therefore recommend that the general meeting of shareholders adopts the items measured at fair value amounted to SEK 691 million, and in Other compreincome statement and balance sheet for the parent company and the group. hensive income of SEK 370 million. Given the complexity in the regulation for hedge accounting and the subjectivity Basis for Opinions involved in the judgements made, we consider this to be a key audit matter for our We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing audit. (ISA) and generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden. Our responsibilities Refer to accounting principles regarding critical judgments and estimates in note under those standards are further described in the Auditor’s Responsibilities section. 1 in the financial statement and related disclosures of market risk in note 2d. We are independent of the parent company and the group in accordance with proOur audit procedures included, but were not limited to: fessional ethics for accountants in Sweden and have otherwise fulfilled our ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements. • W e assessed key controls over the documentation and overview of hedge relations We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriand their initial and on-going effectiveness. ate to provide a basis for our opinions. • W e evaluated the hedge documentation and relations to assess if the hedges were appropriately designed in accordance with IFRS. Other information The audit of the annual accounts for year 2015 was conducted by another auditor • W e evaluated management’s assessment of the effectiveness of the hedges, and who issued an unmodified opinion dated March 11, 2016 in the Report on the assessment and accounting for ineffectiveness in hedges. annual accounts. • F inally, we assessed the completeness and accuracy of the disclosures relating to hedge accounting to assess compliance with disclosure requirements included in Key Audit Matters IFRS. Key audit matters of the audit are those matters that, in our professional judgment, were of most significance in our audit of the annual accounts and consolidated IT-systems that support complete and accurate financial reporting accounts of the current period. These matters were addressed in the context of our SBAB is dependent on their IT-systems to (1) serve customers, (2) support their busiaudit of, and in forming our opinion thereon, the annual accounts and consolidated ness processes, (3) ensure complete and accurate processing of financial transacaccounts as a whole, but we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters. tions and (4) support the overall internal control framework. Many of SBAB’s internal controls over financial reporting are depending upon automated application conJudgments and estimates with respect to valuation of loan receivables trols and completeness and integrity of reports generated by the IT-systems. Given Recognition and measurement of financial instruments as regulated in IAS 39 is a the high dependency on technology, we consider this to be a key audit matter for complex and significant area with large impact on SBAB’s business and financial our audit. reporting. SBAB’s management exercises significant judgment when determining SBAB categorises their key IT-risk and control domains relating to financial reportboth when and how much to record as loan loss provisions. Example of various ing in the following sections: assumptions and judgments includes the financial condition of the counterparty, expected future cash flow, observable market prices and expected net selling prices. • M odifications to the IT-environment The use of different modelling techniques and assumptions could produce signifi• O perations and monitoring of the IT-environment cantly different estimates of loan loss provisions. Furthermore, the associated disclosures are complex and dependent on high quality data. • Information security At December 31, 2016, gross loans to the public amounted to SEK 296 022 million, with loan loss provisions of SEK 235 million. Given the significance of loans to Modifications to the IT-environment the public (representing 78% of total assets) as well as the impact from the inherent Inappropriate modifications to the IT-environment may result in systems that do not uncertainty and subjectivity involved in assessing loan loss provisions, we consider function as expected and result in unreliable data processing with impact on finanthis to be a key audit matter for our audit. cial reporting. Hence SBAB has implemented processes and controls to support that Refer to accounting principles regarding critical judgments and estimates in note changes to the IT-environment are appropriately implemented and function consis1 in the financial statement and related disclosures of credit risk in note 2a. tently with management’s intentions. Our audit procedures included, but were not limited to: Our audit procedures included, but were not limited to: • W e assessed key controls over the approval, recording and monitoring of loans • W e assessed management principles and processes for modifications to the IT-enand receivables, and evaluating the methodologies, inputs and assumptions used vironment. in determining and calculating the loan loss provisions. • W e assessed management monitoring of modifications in the IT-environment. • W e evaluated segregations of duties. 134 SBAB Integrated Annual Report 2016 Auditor’s Report Operations and monitoring of the IT-environment Auditor’s Responsibility Inappropriate operation and monitoring of the ITenvironment may result in the Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the annual inability to prevent or detect incorrect data processing. Hence SBAB has impleaccounts and consolidated accounts as a whole are free from material misstatemented processes and controls to support that IT-environment is monitored continument, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor’s report that includes ously and that incorrect data processing is identified and corrected. our opinions. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guaranOur audit procedures included, but were not limited to: tee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs and generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. • W e evaluated the appropriateness of IT-System job scheduling and alarm configuMisstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individuration capabilities. ally or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the eco• W e evaluated the process for monitoring IT-System. nomic decisions of users taken on the basis of these annual accounts and consolidated accounts. Information security As part of an audit in accordance with ISAs, we exercise professional judgment If physical and logical security tools and controls are not implemented and configand maintain professional scepticism throughout the audit. We also: ured appropriately, key control activities may be ineffective, desired segregation of • Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the annual accounts and duties may not be maintained, and information may be modified inappropriately, consolidated accounts, whether due to fraud or error, design and perform audit become unavailable or disclosed inappropriately. This is of particular importance procedures responsive to those risks, and obtain audit evidence that is sufficient considering the current cyber threat level. Hence SBAB has implemented processes and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinions. The risk of not detecting a and controls to support that information is safeguarded through access controls and material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting from that known vulnerabilities are managed timely. error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentaOur audit procedures included, but were not limited to: tions, or the override of internal control. • W e evaluated the process for identity and access management, including access • O btain an understanding of the company’s internal control relevant to our audit in granting, change and removal. order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but • W e evaluated the appropriateness of processes and tools to ensure availability of not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the company’s data as per user requests and business requirements, including data back-up and internal control. restore procedures. • E valuate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness • W e evaluated the appropriateness of controls for security governance to protect of accounting estimates and related disclosures made by the Board of Directors systems and data from unauthorised use, including logging of security events and and the Managing Director. procedures to identify known vulnerabilities. • C onclude on the appropriateness of the Board of Directors’ and the Managing Director’s use of the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the annual Other information than the annual accounts and consolidated accounts accounts and consolidated accounts. We also draw a conclusion, based on the This document also contains other information than the annual accounts and conaudit evidence obtained, as to whether any material uncertainty exists related to solidated accounts and is found on pages 1-39 and 127-132. The Board of Direcevents or conditions that may cast significant doubt on the company’s and the tors and the Managing Director are responsible for this other information. group’s ability to continue as a going concern. If we conclude that a material Our opinion on the annual accounts and consolidated accounts does not cover uncertainty exists, we are required to draw attention in our auditor’s report to the this other information and we do not express any form of assurance conclusion related disclosures in the annual accounts and consolidated accounts or, if such regarding this other information. disclosures are inadequate, to modify our opinion about the annual accounts and In connection with our audit of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts, consolidated accounts. Our conclusions are based on the audit evidence our responsibility is to read the information identified above and consider whether obtained up to the date of our auditor’s report. However, future events or condithe information is materially inconsistent with the annual accounts and consolidated tions may cause a company and a group to cease to continue as a going concern. accounts. In this procedure we also take into account our knowledge otherwise obtained in the audit and assess whether the information otherwise appears to be • E valuate the overall presentation, structure and content of the annual accounts materially misstated. and consolidated accounts, including the disclosures, and whether the annual If we, based on the work performed concerning this information, conclude that accounts and consolidated accounts represent the underlying transactions and there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report events in a manner that achieves fair presentation. that fact. We have nothing to report in this regard. • O btain sufficient and appropriate audit evidence regarding the financial information of the entities or business activities within the group to express an opinion on Responsibilities of the Board of Directors and the Managing Director the consolidated accounts. We are responsible for the direction, supervision and The Board of Directors and the Managing Director are responsible for the preparaperformance of the group audit. We remain solely responsible for our opinions. tion of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts and that they give a fair presentation in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act for Credit Institutions and We must inform the Board of Directors of, among other matters, the planned scope Securities Companies and, concerning the consolidated accounts, in accordance and timing of the audit. We must also inform of significant audit findings during our with IFRS as adopted by the EU. The Board of Directors and the Managing Director audit, including any significant deficiencies in internal control that we identified. are also responsible for such internal control as they determine is necessary to We must also provide the Board of Directors with a statement that we have comenable the preparation of annual accounts and consolidated accounts that are free plied with relevant ethical requirements regarding independence, and to communifrom material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. cate with them all relationships and other matters that may reasonably be thought In preparing the annual accounts and consolidated accounts, The Board of Directo bear on our independence, and where applicable, related safeguards. tors and the Managing Director are responsible for the assessment of the company’s From the matters communicated with the Board of Directors, we determine those and the group’s ability to continue as a going concern. They disclose, as applicable, matters that were of most significance in the audit of the annual accounts and conmatters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting. solidated accounts, including the most important assessed risks for material misThe going concern basis of accounting is however not applied if the Board of Direcstatement, and are therefore the key audit matters. We describe these matters in tors and the Managing Director intend to liquidate the company, to cease operathe auditor’s report unless law or regulation precludes disclosure about the matter tions, or have no realistic alternative but to do so. or when, in extremely rare circumstances, we determine that a matter should not be The Audit Committee shall, without prejudice to the Board of Director’s responsicommunicated in the auditor’s report because the adverse consequences of doing bilities and tasks in general, among other things oversee the company’s financial so would reasonably be expected to outweigh the public interest benefits of such reporting process. communication. Integrated Annual Report 2016 SBAB 135 Auditor’s Report REPORT ON OTHER LEGAL AND REGULATORY accounts. Additional audit procedures performed are based on our professional judgment with starting point in risk and materiality. This means that we focus the REQUIREMENTS examination on such actions, areas and relationships that are material for the operations and where deviations and violations would have particular importance for the Opinions company’s situation. We examine and test decisions undertaken, support for deciIn addition to our audit of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts, we have sions, actions taken and other circumstances that are relevant to our opinion conalso audited the administration of the Board of Directors and the Managing Director cerning discharge from liability. As a basis for our opinion on the Board of Directors’ of SBAB Bank AB (publ) for the year 2016 and the proposed appropriations of the proposed appropriations of the company’s profit or loss we examined the Board of company’s profit or loss. Directors’ reasoned statement and a selection of supporting evidence in order to be We recommend to the general meeting of shareholders that the profit to be able to assess whether the proposal is in accordance with the Companies Act. appropriated in accordance with the proposal in the statutory administration report and that the members of the Board of Directors and the Managing Director be disThe Auditor’s Examination of the Corporate Governance Statement charged from liability for the financial year. The Board of Directors is responsible for that the corporate governance statement on pages 60–69 has been prepared in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act. Basis for Opinions Our examination of the corporate governance statement is conducted in accorWe conducted the audit in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards dance with FAR´s auditing standard RevU 16 The auditor´s examination of the corin Sweden. Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the porate governance statement. This means that our examination of the corporate Auditor’s Responsibilities section. We are independent of the parent company and governance statement is different and substantially less in scope than an audit conthe group in accordance with professional ethics for accountants in Sweden and ducted in accordance with International Standards on Auditing and generally have otherwise fulfilled our ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requireaccepted auditing standards in Sweden. We believe that the examination has proments. vided us with sufficient basis for our opinions. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriA corporate governance statement has been prepared. Disclosures in accorate to provide a basis for our opinions. dance with chapter 6 section 6 the second paragraph points 2-6 of the Annual Accounts Act and chapter 7 section 31 the second paragraph the same law are Responsibilities of the Board of Directors and the Managing Director consistent with the other parts of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts The Board of Directors is responsible for the proposal for appropriations of the comand are in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act for Credit Institutions and pany’s profit or loss. At the proposal of a dividend, this includes an assessment of Securities Companies. whether the dividend is justifiable considering the requirements which the company’s and the group’s type of operations, size and risks place on the size of the parent company’s and the group’s equity, consolidation requirements, liquidity and position Stockholm, March 21, 2017 in general. The Board of Directors is responsible for the company’s organisation and the Deloitte AB administration of the company’s affairs. This includes among other things continuous assessment of the company’s and the group’s financial situation and ensuring that the company’s organisation is designed so that the accounting, management of assets and the company’s financial affairs otherwise are controlled in a reassuring manner. The Managing Director shall manage the ongoing administration accordPatrick Honeth ing to the Board of Directors’ guidelines and instructions and among other matters Authorised public accountant take measures that are necessary to fulfill the company’s accounting in accordance with law and handle the management of assets in a reassuring manner. Auditor’s Responsibility Our objective concerning the audit of the administration, and thereby our opinion about discharge from liability, is to obtain audit evidence to assess with a reasonable degree of assurance whether any member of the Board of Directors or the Managing Director in any material respect: • h as undertaken any action or been guilty of any omission which can give rise to liability to the company, or • in any other way has acted in contravention of the Companies Act, the Banking and Financing Business Act, the Annual Accounts Act for Credit Institutions and Securities Companies or the Articles of Association. Our objective concerning the audit of the proposed appropriations of the company’s profit or loss, and thereby our opinion about this, is to assess with reasonable degree of assurance whether the proposal is in accordance with the Companies Act. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden will always detect actions or omissions that can give rise to liability to the company, or that the proposed appropriations of the company’s profit or loss are not in accordance with the Companies Act. As part of an audit in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden, we exercise professional judgment and maintain professional scepticism throughout the audit. The examination of the administration and the proposed appropriations of the company’s profit or loss is based primarily on the audit of the 136 SBAB Integrated Annual Report 2016 Auditor’s Limited Assurance Report AUDITOR’S LIMITED ASSURANCE REPORT ON THE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT This is the translation of the auditor’s report in Swedish. To SBAB Bank AB (publ), corporate identity number 556253-7513 Introduction We have been engaged by the Board of Directors of SBAB Bank AB (publ) to undertake a limited assurance engagement of the SBAB Bank AB Sustainability Report for the year 2016. The Company has defined the scope of the Sustainability Report on the inside of the cover page and on page 127. Responsibilities of the Board of Directors and the Executive Management for the Sustainability Report The Board of Directors and the Executive Management are responsible for the preparation of the Sustainability Report in accordance with the applicable criteria, as explained on page 127 in the Sustainability Report, and are the parts of the Sustainability Reporting Guidelines (published by The Global Reporting Initiative (GRI)) which are applicable to the Sustainability Report, as well as the accounting and calculation principles that the Company has developed. This responsibility also includes the internal control relevant to the preparation of a Sustainability Report that is free from material misstatements, whether due to fraud or error. Responsibilities of the auditor Our responsibility is to express a conclusion on the Sustainability Report based on the limited assurance procedures we have performed. We conducted our limited assurance engagement in accordance with RevR 6 Assurance of Sustainability Reports issued by FAR. A limited assurance engagement consists of making inquiries, primarily of persons responsible for the preparation of the Sustainability Report, and applying analytical and other limited assurance procedures. The procedures performed in a limited assurance engagement vary in nature from, and are less in extent than for, a reasonable assurance engagement conducted in accordance with IAASB’s Standards on Auditing and other generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden. The firm applies ISQC 1 (International Standard on Quality Control) and accordingly maintains a comprehensive system of quality control including documented policies and procedures regarding compliance with ethical requirements, professional standards and applicable legal and regulatory requirements. The procedures performed consequently do not enable us to obtain assurance that we would become aware of all significant matters that might be identified in a reasonable assurance engagement. Accordingly, we do not express a reasonable assurance conclusion. Our procedures are based on the criteria defined by the Board of Directors and the Executive Management as described above. We consider these criteria suitable for the preparation of the Sustainability Report. We believe that the evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our conclusion below. Conclusion Based on the limited assurance procedures we have performed, nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the Sustainability Report, is not prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with the criteria defined by the Board of Directors and Executive Management. Stockholm, March 21, 2017 Deloitte AB Signatures on Swedish original Patrick Honeth Didrik Roos Authorised Public Accountant Authorised Public Accountant Integrated Annual Report 2016 SBAB 137 Key performance indicators, definitions KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS, DEFINITIONS Alternative performance measures (APMs) are financial metrics of historical or future performance, financial position or cash flows that are not defined in the applicable rules for financial reporting (for example, IFRS or the Swedish Annual Accounts Act). SBAB uses APMs when these are relevant for the presentation and follow-up of the bank’s financial position and when these metrics are deemed to provide additional valuable information to readers of the financial reports. APMs can be calculated with various approaches and, accordingly, SBAB’s metrics are not directly comparable with similar metrics presented by other companies. New lending Gross lending Deposits/lending Ratio of total deposits to total lending Net interest margin Net interest income in relation to average total assets Loan loss ratio Loan losses in relation to closing balance for lending to the public C/I ratio Total operating expenses/total income Return on equity Earnings after actual tax in relation to average equity, adjusted for Tier 1 capital loans Return on assets Operating profit/loss after actual tax, in relation to average total assets Number of employees (FTEs) Number of employees expressed as full-time equivalents (FTEs), adjusted for sick leave and leave of absence CET1 capital ratio CET1 capital in relation to risk-weighted assets Total capital ratio Own funds in relation to risk-weighted assets Tier 1 capital ratio Tier 1 capital in relation to risk-weighted assets Liquidity coverage ratio, LCR Liquid assets in relation to net outgoing cash flows over a 30-day stress scenario Survival horizon The number of days that the need for liquidity can be met in a stress scenario before new liquidity is needed Net Stable Funding Ratio, NSFR A liquidity risk metric of a structural nature that demonstrates the stability of the Group’s funding in relation to its assets 138 SBAB Integrated Annual Report 2016 Contact details and addresses CONTACT DETAILS Report contacts IR contacts Financial calendar Telephone: +46 (0)8-614 43 98 Year-end report 2016 8 February 2017 Pontus Niléhn E-mail: investor@sbab.se Manager Financial Communications Annual General Meeting (Solna) 24 April 2017 Telephone: +46 (0)706-91 24 44 Fredrik Jönsson Interim Report January–March 2017 25 April 2017 pontus.nilehn@sbab.se Head of Treasury Telephone: +46 (0)8-614 3822 Interim report January–June 2017 19 July 2017 fredrik.jonsson@sbab.se Interim report January–September 2017 26 October 2017 Louise Bergström Year-end report 2017 9 February 2018 Head of Investor Relations Telephone: +46 (0)8-614 4311 louise.bergstrom@sbab.se Anders Hult Head of Funding Telephone: +46 (0)8 614 3864 anders.hult@sbab.se Information for investors For more information and contacts, see www.sbab.se ADDRESSES Head Office: SBAB Bank SBAB Bank Box 53072 Box 4209 SE-400 14 Gothenburg SE-171 04 Solna (Visiting address: Södra Larmgatan 13) (Visiting address: Svetsarvägen 24) Telephone: +46 (0)771-45 30 30 Telephone: +46 (0)771-45 30 00 Fax: +46 (0)31-743 37 10 Fax: +46 (0)8-614 38 60 E-mail: foretag-brf@sbab.se E-mail: kundcenter@sbab.se Telephone Corporate Clients & Tenant-Owners’ AssociSBAB Bank ations: +46 (0)771-45 30 30 Rundelsgatan 16 E-mail: Företag & Brf: foretag-brf@sbab.se SE-211 36 Malmö Corp. Reg. No.: 556253-7513 Telephone: +46 (0)771-45 30 30 www.sbab.sesbab.se Fax: +46 (0)40-664 53 58 E-mail: foretag-brf@sbab.se SBAB Bank Box 1012 SE-651 15 Karlstad (Visiting address: Östra Torggatan 9, Arkaden) Telephone: +46 (0)771-45 30 00 Fax: +46 (0)54-17 71 10 E-mail: kundcenter@sbab.se Integrated Annual Report 2016 SBAB 139 Production: SBAB in cooperation with Sjö&Berg, Photographer: Linda Klemner, Mats Högberg, Printed by: Strokirk-Landströms 2017
