Daifuku CSR Report 2017 Today we are doing better than we were yesterday. Tomorrow we will be growing ahead of where we are today. Contact: CSR Promotion Group, Human Resources Department 1-2-3 Kaigan, Minato-ku, Tokyo, Japan Phone: +81 3 6721 3502 FAX: +81 3 6721 3570 1709-14CSR-E A Company That Supports Society and the Future View from our new Tokyo Head Office Contents ● Editorial policy ● CSR information disclosure tools and approaches ● Corporate Data In commemoration of Daifuku’s 80th anniversary, this CSR At Daifuku, we use different tools for different types of Message from the President ........................................ 3 Corporate name: Daifuku Co., Ltd. Report 2017 looks back at the Daifuku Group’s history. readers and objectives to ensure the information we disclose Principal Headquarters: 3-2-11 Mitejima, The 80-Year History of Daifuku .................................... 5 Since its founding 80 years ago, Daifuku has been about our CSR and other corporate activities is conveyed to locations: Nishiyodogawa-ku, Osaka, Japan involved in a variety of activities to contribute to society, to our various stakeholders in a way that is easily understood. Tokyo Head Office: 1-2-3 Kaigan, Minato-ku, An 80-Year Chronicle Tokyo, Japan care for the global environment, and to create rewarding Print version Web version Shiga Works: 1225 Nakazaiji, Hino-cho, Products: The Dawn of Material Handling ................. 9 workplaces through its business. Gamo-gun, Shiga, Japan Conveyors Bear the Infrastructure of the Future .... 11 This report reveals the words of past company leaders Komaki Works: 4-103 Komakihara, Komaki-shi, Aichi, Japan Daifuku CSR Report 2017 and describes some of the accomplishments of our Environment: Factories Where Nature and Technologies are in Harmony ....................................... 13 predecessors. Established: May 20, 1937 Paid-in capital: 15,016.1 million yen Human Resources: Healthy People Inhabit a Sound ● Front cover Company .................................... 15 Representative: Masaki Hojo, President and CEO The phrase Hini Arata, which is Daifuku’s company Today we are doing better than we were yesterday. Tomorrow we will be growing ahead of where we are today. A Company That Supports Society and the Future ..... 17 creed, comes from the Daxue, or Great Learning, one Employees: 8,689 (consolidated) of the four books of classic Chinese Confucianism. It Consolidated 320,825 million yen A CSR-focused The website provides a comprehensive report of means to always move forward, filled with a frontier spirit communication book non-financial information, and details of various net sales: initiatives and other data. and with a quiet determination to leap forward and grow. www.daifuku.com/sustainability/ Group 56 (9 in Japan and 47 outside Japan) companies: Note: Above figures as of March 31, 2017 1 Daifuku CSR Report 2017 Daifuku CSR Report 2017 2 Message from the President From a behind-the-scenes industry player to a lead role. Our tradition of responding to Continuing to aim for sustainable On the occasion of Daifuku’s 80th anniversary, each and the expectations and trust of our growth by advancing our CSR efforts customers, an ethic imbued in Daifuku’s every employee brings a renewed determination as we DNA, continues unceasing. To fulfill our responsibility to society as a company, it is important that we build a framework that contributes to continue toward our goal of sound, sustainable growth. Looking back at our history since our founding, society. Masaki Hojo Japan’s first transport system for automated factories Our CSR Action Plan was formulated to provide President and CEO that we began work on in the latter half of the 1950s specific initiatives for promoting our CSR activities. Daifuku Co., Ltd. represented a major turning point for the Company. That In fiscal 2017, in line with Value Innovation 2020, challenge confirmed for us that material handling was our new four-year medium-term business plan, we the business domain we should pursue, and established revised this Action Plan, restructuring and integrating our direction as a company that would contribute to our approaches and establishing new targets based society through that business. On that point, we must on our original six initiatives: I. Provide high quality not forget the presence of Kenjiro Masuda, who was products and services; II. Strengthen risk management; As the expectations from society grow, responsible for leading the Company at the time. III. Nurture relationships of trust with our suppliers; IV. so do our responsibilities Certainly, the term “CSR” did not exist then. Still, Respect human dignity (human rights, labor practices, every employee shared a common mission to respond safety, health); V. Create good relationships with In May 2017, Daifuku marked its 80th anniversary. to the expectations and trust of our customers, no communities, and; VI. Contribute to the environment Over that long history, Daifuku has become a worldmatter what. When I was still a junior employee, I felt through corporate activities. Among these, we class leader in the material handling systems industry, that sense of mission for myself, when I spoke directly place great priority in respecting human dignity, with with more than 8,600 employees across the Group. In to our president at the time and as I gained experience the Company proactive in its efforts to create an fiscal 2016, ended March 31, 2017, the final year of the working on the front lines. This corporate culture, built environment for developing global talent across the four-year medium-term business plan, Value Innovation up by Kenjiro Masuda, can be considered Daifuku’s group, inviting affiliate employees to Japan for educating 2017, Daifuku achieved record-high operating income, DNA. In a phrase, our DNA might be described as and training, and giving our young employees in Japan ordinary income, and net income, and at 7.2%, the an attitude of “seeing things through”—a singlethe opportunity to gain experience overseas. I believe operating margin surpassed the initial target of 7.0%. minded determination to respond to the customer’s engagement with our stakeholders is important to I anticipate that as the environment in which we expectations and trust, and to face even the most further advancing our CSR initiatives. We will work to do business expands, society’s expectations to us difficult challenge head-on. I enjoy going on-site, and ensure compliance, and place even greater emphasis increase, as does our responsibility to society. go out to talk to our employees whenever I have the on communication as we work to build a relationship of Also, with the growth of e-commerce, our customers opportunity. In doing so, I get the sense that today, this trust with our stakeholders. in the distribution industry face the pressing issue of DNA continues to be handed down within Daifuku. I feel the time has come for us to change our how to respond to the needs of consumers who expect perception. The logistics systems that serve as the profile to get what they want when they want it. The same social infrastructure in supporting peoples’ daily lives issue applies to Daifuku. Being responsible for our Kenjiro Masuda are moving from being a behind-the-scenes industry customers’ distribution systems, I believe that providing Served as president of Daifuku Machinery Works Co., Ltd. from 1947 to 1949 and from 1953 to player to a lead role. On the occasion of Daifuku’s 80th 1967. He restored Daifuku by transforming it from solutions that respond to those consumer needs—and a manufacturer of forge rolling machinery and anniversary, each and every employee shall embrace cranes in its early years, to handling and conveyor thus the needs of society—will be extremely important machinery, building the Company’s material this feeling, as we continue toward our goal of sound, handling business. Based on collaboration with for us going forward. companies outside Japan, Daifuku established sustainable growth. mass production systems using chain conveyors, leaving a lasting mark on the automobile industry and the history of industry in Japan. The Company went on to bring together its competitors to form the Kinki Material Handling Machinery Association, playing a role in promoting awareness activities involving rationalization and automation of handling and conveying. Daifuku CSR Report 2017 4 The 80-Year History of Daifuku 1965 ● Daifuku Club launched ● Green Strategy 1985 ● Wins Green Cross Award at the National Industrial 2006 ● Shiga Works, Daifuku’s main production site, completed, Evolving from a material handling manufacturer to a value innovator ● Joins the United Nations Global Compact introduced at Shiga Works Health and Safety Conference becoming world’s largest logistics production site 1966 ● Rackbuil System and elsewhere. Employees ● Develops the superfast mini load AS/RS, Synchronized System 2012 ● audit Japan’s first high-rise automated storage 1986 ● Digital Pick System An automatic prescription take the initiative in planting Delivered to distribution centers for supermarkets, coand retrieval system (AS/RS) delivered 2 trees and weeding checking system that 1937 ~ 2017 ops, and others prevents dispensing errors ● Saturday afternoons designated 1976 ● Sorting Master to build trust between Education Days for all employees Japan’s first steel beltpatients and pharmacists Since its founding, Daifuku has been working with its customers in responding to society’s needs. Understand the past, The foundation of a five-day work week type automated sorter 2 developed 6 ● Delivers a nitrogen purge system reflect on the present, and create the future. Facing the next generation, aiming to be a company that supports society 1967 ● New Osaka Headquarters building completed ● Shiga Works recognized with a Green Factory Award and the future. Built in time for the Company’s 30th anniversary 1978 ● TELELIFT System ● Daifuku Eco-Products certification program established from the Kinki METI Bureau Japan’s first automated book ● Establishes Taiwan Daifuku Co., Ltd. 6 ● Business and product milestones ● CSR milestones ● Global milestones conveying system delivered ● Formulates Daifuku’s CSR policies and action plans ● Establishes Daifuku Mechatronics (Singapore) Pte. Ltd. as an affiliate in Singapore Innovating material handling technologies to create added-value ● Hands-on safety training facility opened in the Shiga Works The pre-war years and post-war recovery era Era of systemization Expanding business to DA*2 fields, and beyond to SCM*3 2007 ● Group company Contec Co., Ltd. listed on the Second Section of Tokyo Stock Exchange ● Austria-based Knapp AG becomes an equity-method ● New Zealand’s BCS Group Limited joins the Group 1937 ● Founded as Sakaguchi Kikai Seisakusho Ltd. 1957 ● Enters into a partnership 1991 ● Establishes Daifuku (Thailand) Ltd. affiliate with U.S.-based Jervis B. ● U.S.-based Jervis B. Webb joins the Daifuku family 2015 ● Ranked first in global sales in the material handling industry Webb Company. Delivers 1993 ● Ramrun-HID ● Hallim Machinery Co., Ltd. of South Korea joins the Group ● Fukuwakai, an information exchange meeting with ● Receives an honorable mention first chain conveyor system partner companies, launched World’s first electrified 2008 ● Develops DUOSYS superfast ● U.S.-based Elite Line Services, LLC joins the Group at the 2015 Environment monorail system with mini load AS/RS  Advanced FA*1 Personnel Training Awards  Challenging automatic guide operation non-contact power ● Establishes Daifuku (Suzhou) Cleanroom Automation 1959 ● Chain conveyor system ● Integrates two Taiwan supply developed subsidiaries Co., Ltd. in China 2016 ● Tokyo Head Office relocated Delivered to Japan’s first passenger 1969 ● Listed on the First Section of Tokyo, Osaka and 1980 ● Daifuku’s trolley conveyor plays an 1939 ● Mitejima Factory completed and begins operation in Osaka automobile factory 1 Nagoya Stock Exchanges active role in major repair of the Great 1994 ● Hini Arata Kan logistics demo center opens 2013 ● RFID Tray Return System ● D-PAD 2009 ● Integrates three South Buddha Hall at Todai-ji Temple, a developed World’s first wireless battery 1962 ● Company begins enhancing its employee Korean subsidiaries ● Once-monthly five-day work week introduced National Treasure of Japan 7 12 benefits programs. Food stand set up in ● Daifuku Shiga Mega Solar charging system 2010 ● Environmental Osaka factory to supply meals to employees ● Fukujukai, an information exchange meeting with ● Fukuyukai launched as an has a generating capacity for electric forklifts 1 Enhancement Management working overtime and on weekends. Start agents, launched organization to offer social gatherings of 4,438 kW, producing developed and put 7 Committee launched of health consultations and birthday celebrations for retirees from the Company 4.3 million kWh annually into practical use ● Daifuku Health Insurance Union established ● Inaugurates hands-on 11 ● The first issue of Daifuku News, ● The first issue of an internal 1981 ● Waxmore 303 safety training facility at Osaka headquarters the Company’s external PR newsletter, replacing 1970 ● Plans for construction of an industrial park Japan’s first 1944 ● Changes company name to Kanematsu Kiko Co., Ltd. magazine, published Daifuku Monthly, published Acquires land in Hino-cho, Shiga Prefecture and begins microcomputer-equipped ● Revamps six Chinese affiliates and launches Daifuku ● U.S.-based Wynright Corporation joins the Group 1999 ● With major earthquake, adoption of quake-absorbing development for an industrial site car wash machine (China) Co., Ltd. Towards an era of rapid economic growth AS/RS advances 2014 ● Area Management System developed Achieving sound, sustained growth ● Showcases our prontow and 2011 ● eye-navi developed 2002 ● Publishes the Environmental Report 9 1947 ● Changes company name to Daifuku Machinery Works Palletainer at the Japan World High-throughput pick-to-light system 2017 ● Recognized as a Health and Co., Ltd. Expo in Osaka 3 3 ● Establishes Daifuku (Shanghai) Ltd. developed to support the growth of ● Develops the superfast mini Productivity Excellent Company 1982 ● FA systems as the first subsidiary in China the Co-op individual delivery business load AS/RS, Smart Stocker ● Daifuku Machinery Works labor union formed ● Every Wednesday designated Health Day 2017 (White 500) by METI  Delivered to the world’s most advanced motor factory Quattro Promotes leaving work on time 2003 ● Introduces new human resources system ● Baggage Tray System ● Achieves the top rank in the 1948 ● The Kinki Material Handling Machinery Association emphasizing output-oriented evaluation DBJ* Business Continuity 13 9 Realizes the world’s fastest established ● Employees’ shareholding association established 1963 ● Komaki Plant completed and begins operation conveyor speed of 600 m/min Management Ratings ● Establishes Daifuku Automation (Tianjin) Co., Ltd. in China 1971 ● Twice-monthly five-day work week *DBJ: The Development Bank of Japan 1952 ● Forms a technical partnership with Buhler Brothers of introduced 2004 ● E-DIP ● Guinness World Records * title set on date of 80th anniversary TM Switzerland. Manufacture of Bulkveyor begins An eco-friendly automobile A chain of origami sculptures in the shape of the peregrine 1972 ● Unit load AS/RS ● SPDR (pronounced spider) 1953 ● Bulkveyor paint line system developed  falcon set a new world record Small and midsize unit load AS/RS developed 4 1983 ● Establishes the first global subsidiary, Daifuku U.S.A. Inc., in Chicago Temporary storage and sortation system for parts Japan’s first grain and developed *Guinness World RecordsTM is a registered trademark of Guinness 4 ● Corporate Code of bulk unloading equipment ● Rules on Compensation for Accidents 1984 ● Company name changed to Daifuku Co., Ltd. World Records Limited. Conduct formulated delivered While Commuting introduced in 10 advance of the 1973 revision of the law ● Cleanway, Clean Stocker ● Establishes Daifuku Automation (Guangzhou) Co., Ltd. in China Developed for the semiconductor industry ● Develops the first Japan-made 1973 ● Bucketbuil System ● Palletainer becomes first distribution 2005 ● Visitors to Hini Arata Kan exceed 200,000 1955 ● The first issue of Daifuku Monthly, bowling machine Bucket-type AS/RS developed 5 ● Formulates Daifuku Environmental Vision 2020 system selected for a Good Design the Company’s internal and external Delivered to the world’s largest ● Establishes Jiangsu Daifuku Rixin Automation Co., ● Fourth-monthly five-day work week award from METI* 8 PR magazine, published bowling alley ● Establishes U.S. holding company introduced 5 *METI: Ministry of Economy, Trade, and Industry Ltd., the first production subsidiary in China (Japan) 1964 ● Hini Arata, established as the company creed 8 *2DA=Distribution Automation, *3SCM=Supply Chain Management ● Logan Teleflex and its group companies join the Group 1937 1974 ● Mandatory retirement at age 60 introduced *1FA: Factory Automation 2017 Key World 1937 Sino-Japanese War 1958 Tokyo Tower completed 1968 Black-and-white televisions, refrigerators and 1973 First oil crisis 1989 The Berlin wall falls, marking the end 1997 Ministry of the Environment announces 2001 Multiple terrorist attacks against the 2005 Internet penetration rate exceeds 70% in Japan 2008 Major U.S. securities firm Lehman Brothers fails 2011 The Great East Japan Earthquake 2016 Act on Promotion 1939 1960 washing machines popularized as the “Three 1980 Iran-Iraq War of the Cold War Environmental Reporting Guidelines United States of Women’s Events 1945 World War II World War II ends 1962 Color television broadcasts begin Cuban Missile Crisis Sacred Treasures” 1986 Automobile household penetration rate 1991 The Gulf War; the fall of the Soviet Great Britain returns Hong Kong to China 2003 Iraq War Postal service privatization; Aichi World Expo held; Kyoto Protocol goes into effect Global financial crisis 2009 Start of lay judge system in Japan Television broadcasts switch to terrestrial digital broadcasting in Japan Participation and Advancement in the 1969 America’s Apollo 11 lands on the moon exceeds 70% in Japan Union 1999 The euro is introduced as a currency Act on the Protection of Personal 2006 Restriction of Hazardous Substances (RoHS) 2012 TOKYO SKYTREE completed ® 1956 Outbreak of Minamata disease and 1964 Tokyo Olympics held 2010 COP 10 Biodiversity Treaty Workplace other pollution-borne illnesses in Japan 1970 Japan World Exposition (Osaka Expo) held The “bubble” economy; Equal Employment 1995 The Great Hanshin Awaji Earthquake United Nations Global Compact is Information becomes law in Japan directive comes into force 2015 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) A bowling boom in Japan 10th Convention on Biological Diversity (Nagoya) Kumamoto Earthquake Opportunity Law enacted 1996 ISO 14001 standard published proposed 2004 The Niigata Chuetsu Earthquake 2007 EU Registration, Evaluation, Authorization and Restriction adopted of Chemicals (REACH) regulation comes into force 5 Daifuku CSR Report 2017 Daifuku CSR Report 2017 8 The 80-Year History of Daifuku 1965 ● Daifuku Club launched ● Green Strategy introduced at Shiga Works 1966 ● Rackbuil System and elsewhere. Employees Japan’s first high-rise automated storage take the initiative in planting and retrieval system (AS/RS) delivered 2 trees and weeding 1937 ~ 2017 ● Saturday afternoons designated Education Days for all employees 1976 ● Sorting Master Japan’s first steel beltSince its founding, Daifuku has been working with its customers in responding to society’s needs. Understand the past, The foundation of a five-day work week type automated sorter 2 developed 6 reflect on the present, and create the future. Facing the next generation, aiming to be a company that supports society 1967 ● New Osaka Headquarters building completed and the future. Built in time for the Company’s 30th anniversary 1978 ● TELELIFT System Japan’s first automated book 6 ● Business and product milestones ● CSR milestones ● Global milestones conveying system delivered The pre-war years and post-war recovery era Era of systemization 1937 ● Founded as Sakaguchi Kikai Seisakusho Ltd. 1957 ● Enters into a partnership with U.S.-based Jervis B. Webb Company. Delivers ● Fukuwakai, an information exchange meeting with first chain conveyor system partner companies, launched Challenging automatic guide operation Advanced FA*1 1959 ● Chain conveyor system Delivered to Japan’s first passenger 1969 ● Listed on the First Section of Tokyo, Osaka and 1980 ● Daifuku’s trolley conveyor plays an 1939 ● Mitejima Factory completed and begins operation in Osaka automobile factory 1 Nagoya Stock Exchanges active role in major repair of the Great Buddha Hall at Todai-ji Temple, a 1962 ● Company begins enhancing its employee ● Once-monthly five-day work week introduced National Treasure of Japan 7 benefits programs. Food stand set up in Osaka factory to supply meals to employees 1 ● Fukujukai, an information exchange meeting with ● Fukuyukai launched as an working overtime and on weekends. Start agents, launched organization to offer social gatherings 7 of health consultations and birthday celebrations for retirees from the Company ● Daifuku Health Insurance Union established ● The first issue of Daifuku News, ● The first issue of an internal 1981 ● Waxmore 303 the Company’s external PR newsletter, replacing 1970 ● Plans for construction of an industrial park Japan’s first 1944 ● Changes company name to Kanematsu Kiko Co., Ltd. magazine, published Daifuku Monthly, published Acquires land in Hino-cho, Shiga Prefecture and begins microcomputer-equipped development for an industrial site car wash machine Towards an era of rapid economic growth developed ● Showcases our prontow and 1947 ● Changes company name to Daifuku Machinery Works Palletainer at the Japan World Co., Ltd. Expo in Osaka 3 3 1982 ● FA systems ● Daifuku Machinery Works labor union formed ● Every Wednesday designated Health Day Delivered to the world’s most advanced motor factory Promotes leaving work on time 1948 ● The Kinki Material Handling Machinery Association established ● Employees’ shareholding association established 1963 ● Komaki Plant completed and begins operation 1971 ● Twice-monthly five-day work week 1952 ● Forms a technical partnership with Buhler Brothers of introduced Switzerland. Manufacture of Bulkveyor begins 1972 ● Unit load AS/RS 1953 ● Bulkveyor Small and midsize unit load AS/RS developed 4 1983 ● Establishes the first global subsidiary, Daifuku U.S.A. Inc., in Chicago Japan’s first grain and ● Rules on Compensation for Accidents 4 1984 ● Company name changed to Daifuku Co., Ltd. bulk unloading equipment delivered While Commuting introduced in advance of the 1973 revision of the law ● Cleanway, Clean Stocker Developed for the semiconductor industry ● Develops the first Japan-made 1973 ● Bucketbuil System ● Palletainer becomes first distribution 1955 ● The first issue of Daifuku Monthly, bowling machine Bucket-type AS/RS developed 5 system selected for a Good Design the Company’s internal and external Delivered to the world’s largest ● Fourth-monthly five-day work week award from METI* 8 PR magazine, published bowling alley *METI: Ministry of Economy, Trade, and Industry introduced 5 (Japan) 1964 ● Hini Arata, established as the company creed 8 1937 1974 ● Mandatory retirement at age 60 introduced *1FA: Factory Automation Key World 1937 Sino-Japanese War 1958 Tokyo Tower completed 1968 Black-and-white televisions, refrigerators and 1973 First oil crisis 1989 The Berlin wall falls, marking the end 1939 1960 washing machines popularized as the “Three 1980 Iran-Iraq War of the Cold War Events 1945 World War II World War II ends 1962 Color television broadcasts begin Cuban Missile Crisis Sacred Treasures” 1986 Automobile household penetration rate 1991 The Gulf War; the fall of the Soviet 1969 America’s Apollo 11 lands on the moon exceeds 70% in Japan Union 1956 Outbreak of Minamata disease and 1964 Tokyo Olympics held other pollution-borne illnesses in Japan 1970 Japan World Exposition (Osaka Expo) held The “bubble” economy; Equal Employment 1995 The Great Hanshin Awaji Earthquake A bowling boom in Japan Opportunity Law enacted 1996 ISO 14001 standard published 5 Daifuku CSR Report 2017 1985 ● Wins Green Cross Award at the National Industrial 2006 ● Shiga Works, Daifuku’s main production site, completed, Evolving from a material handling manufacturer to a value innovator ● Joins the United Nations Global Compact Health and Safety Conference becoming world’s largest logistics production site ● Develops the superfast mini load AS/RS, Synchronized System 2012 ● audit 1986 ● Digital Pick System An automatic prescription Delivered to distribution centers for supermarkets, cochecking system that ops, and others prevents dispensing errors to build trust between patients and pharmacists ● Delivers a nitrogen purge system ● Shiga Works recognized with a Green Factory Award ● Daifuku Eco-Products certification program established from the Kinki METI Bureau ● Establishes Taiwan Daifuku Co., Ltd. ● Formulates Daifuku’s CSR policies and action plans ● Establishes Daifuku Mechatronics (Singapore) Pte. Ltd. as an affiliate in Singapore Innovating material handling technologies to create added-value ● Hands-on safety training facility opened in the Shiga Works Expanding business to DA*2 fields, and beyond to SCM*3 2007 ● Group company Contec Co., Ltd. listed on the Second Section of Tokyo Stock Exchange ● Austria-based Knapp AG becomes an equity-method ● New Zealand’s BCS Group Limited joins the Group 1991 ● Establishes Daifuku (Thailand) Ltd. affiliate ● U.S.-based Jervis B. Webb joins the Daifuku family 2015 ● Ranked first in global sales in the material handling industry 1993 ● Ramrun-HID ● Hallim Machinery Co., Ltd. of South Korea joins the Group ● Receives an honorable mention World’s first electrified 2008 ● Develops DUOSYS superfast ● U.S.-based Elite Line Services, LLC joins the Group at the 2015 Environment monorail system with mini load AS/RS  Personnel Training Awards  non-contact power ● Establishes Daifuku (Suzhou) Cleanroom Automation ● Integrates two Taiwan supply developed subsidiaries Co., Ltd. in China 2016 ● Tokyo Head Office relocated 1994 ● Hini Arata Kan logistics demo center opens 2013 ● RFID Tray Return System ● D-PAD 2009 ● Integrates three South developed World’s first wireless battery Korean subsidiaries 12 ● Daifuku Shiga Mega Solar charging system 2010 ● Environmental has a generating capacity for electric forklifts Enhancement Management of 4,438 kW, producing developed and put Committee launched 4.3 million kWh annually into practical use ● Inaugurates hands-on 11 safety training facility at Osaka headquarters ● Revamps six Chinese affiliates and launches Daifuku ● U.S.-based Wynright Corporation joins the Group 1999 ● With major earthquake, adoption of quake-absorbing (China) Co., Ltd. AS/RS advances 2014 ● Area Management System Achieving sound, sustained growth 2011 ● eye-navi developed 2002 ● Publishes the Environmental Report 9 High-throughput pick-to-light system 2017 ● Recognized as a Health and ● Establishes Daifuku (Shanghai) Ltd. developed to support the growth of ● Develops the superfast mini Productivity Excellent Company as the first subsidiary in China the Co-op individual delivery business load AS/RS, Smart Stocker 2017 (White 500) by METI  Quattro 2003 ● Introduces new human resources system ● Baggage Tray System ● Achieves the top rank in the emphasizing output-oriented evaluation 9 Realizes the world’s fastest DBJ* Business Continuity 13 conveyor speed of 600 m/min Management Ratings ● Establishes Daifuku Automation (Tianjin) Co., Ltd. in China *DBJ: The Development Bank of Japan 2004 ● E-DIP ● Guinness World Records * title set on date of 80th anniversary TM An eco-friendly automobile A chain of origami sculptures in the shape of the peregrine ● SPDR (pronounced spider) paint line system developed  falcon set a new world record Temporary storage and sortation system for parts developed *Guinness World RecordsTM is a registered trademark of Guinness ● Corporate Code of World Records Limited. Conduct formulated 10 ● Establishes Daifuku Automation (Guangzhou) Co., Ltd. in China 2005 ● Visitors to Hini Arata Kan exceed 200,000 ● Formulates Daifuku Environmental Vision 2020 ● Establishes Jiangsu Daifuku Rixin Automation Co., ● Establishes U.S. holding company Ltd., the first production subsidiary in China *2DA=Distribution Automation, *3SCM=Supply Chain Management ● Logan Teleflex and its group companies join the Group 2017 1997 Ministry of the Environment announces 2001 Multiple terrorist attacks against the 2005 Internet penetration rate exceeds 70% in Japan 2008 Major U.S. securities firm Lehman Brothers fails 2011 The Great East Japan Earthquake 2016 Act on Promotion Environmental Reporting Guidelines United States Postal service privatization; Aichi World Expo held; Global financial crisis Television broadcasts switch to terrestrial of Women’s Great Britain returns Hong Kong to China 2003 Iraq War Kyoto Protocol goes into effect digital broadcasting in Japan Participation and 2009 Start of lay judge system in Japan Advancement in the 1999 The euro is introduced as a currency 2006 Restriction of Hazardous Substances (RoHS) 2012 TOKYO SKYTREE completed ® Act on the Protection of Personal 2010 COP 10 Biodiversity Treaty Workplace United Nations Global Compact is Information becomes law in Japan directive comes into force 2015 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) 10th Convention on Biological Diversity (Nagoya) Kumamoto Earthquake proposed 2004 The Niigata Chuetsu Earthquake 2007 EU Registration, Evaluation, Authorization and Restriction adopted of Chemicals (REACH) regulation comes into force Daifuku CSR Report 2017 8 Seventy years have passed since then-president An 80-Year Chronicle: Products Becoming an all-around Masuda decided to embark on becoming a material handling machinery manufacturer. material handling Today, Daifuku enjoys the industry’s top sales as a material handling systems supplier, and machinery provider has contributed to the modernization of material handling by anticipating the future and responding to the diversifying needs of its customers. Kenjiro Masuda Even today, this “all-around” spirit lives on in its President of Daifuku Machinery Works Co., Ltd. (1947-1949, 1953-1967) current business model, which provides solutions for a diverse range of industries and fields that go In 1947, in the post-World War II turbulence, Kenjiro beyond material handling. Masuda was seeking a direction for the company, and decided to bet the company’s future on modernizing material Providing quality products and services handling, which had largely relied on human power. in response to advancing material He wrote a marketing policy titled, “Becoming an Allhandling needs Around Material Handling Machinery Provider.” That Stevedores carrying cargo (photo credit: Museum of Logistics) Since 2000, Daifuku has provided its customers with year became “Year One of Material Handling” at Daifuku. 1953 integrated services that encompass everything from proposals for logistics strategies to maintenance of distribution centers and other facilities. From human power to machines In the logistics field, the shift to high-mix, low-volume The Dawn of Material Handling Modernization of material handling handling accelerated, leading to the rapid widespread rise Until around the 1940s, most materials were handled by of supermarkets, convenience stores and home delivery stevedores who carried cargoes on their shoulders. Daifuku services, and manufacturers, wholesalers and those in 2011 introduced material handling machinery designed to reduce other industries were faced with an increasing need for physical burdens and enhance productivity. material handling systems in response to the shift to highHigh-throughput pick-to-light system This high performance pick-to-light system allows individual delivery services to Machinery such as the Stacker, a lift that could stack frequency, small-lot shipping. Introduction of automated achieve efficient and accurate picking. bags in high places, the Piler, a portable conveyor system warehouses, picking systems and conveyors developed for stacking cargoes high or low, and the Bulkveyor, a The first Bulkveyor installed by Daifuku has made work more efficient and has met the conveyor developed through technical partnership with expectations of its customers. Buhler Brothers of Switzerland, all delivered outstanding The “living” warehouse brings a performance in the traditionally labor-intensive handling of revolution in distribution Responding to a reduced labor force with grain and cement, making Daifuku popular among a wide Into the 1960s, economic recovery also brought the cutting-edge automated systems range of industries. development of technology for transport, handling, and Distribution centers are expected to address a number of storage. Meanwhile, processing of cargo at the point of issues, primarily shortened lead times, improved shipping shipment failed to keep up with such advances, and mountains accuracy and quality, and reduced costs. These need to of cargo piled up awaiting shipment became a common sight. be resolved not as individual issues, but by linking them Around that time, Daifuku, which had begun exploring together to improve performance levels across the board. new fields after its success with conveyors, developed the A logistics system that can resolve these multiple issues Rackbuil, a pioneering automated warehousing technology. simultaneously can offer same day ordering and delivery, In 1966, Daifuku delivered the first Rackbuil System to and eliminate shortages or excess stock, creating a 1966 Matsushita Electric Industrial (now system that can offer a wide range of goods and deliver Panasonic Corporation), and orders customers what they need when they need it. poured in from the automobile, textile, In addition, with Japan’s falling birthrate and rapidly and other industries. The Rackbuil, aging society, every industry in Japan today faces which became a part of their production severe labor shortages. Labor costs have risen over lines as a “moving, living warehouse,” the past several years, and industries are competing was called a revolutionary development for workforce. By automating the distribution centers, that changed the conventional concept of the warehouse, and in no time grew The Rackbuil installed Distribution center 2016 This cutting-edge distribution center pursues the automation of wholesale Daifuku contributes to enhancing customer productivity. in a Matsushita Electric operations where possible. Automated equipment can resolve labor shortages Cargo terminal overflowing with loads (photo credit: Museum of Logistics) to become a core product for Daifuku. Industrial facility and reduce distribution costs. 9 Daifuku CSR Report 2017 Daifuku CSR Report 2017 10 Today, Daifuku technology is used in a wide In time, a need will An 80-Year Chronicle: Products number of products that support society’s infr astructure, not only automobiles, but arise, even where hospitals, airports and other facilities. As Masuda foresaw, as systems grew more none exists today advanced, material handling technology would widen its role in a variety of industries and applications, and today, is a vital part of society. Kenjiro Masuda In 1955, the motorization of Japan quickly accelerated. Becoming a power behind the scenes “Conveyors will no longer be simply for carrying of the social infrastructure supporting objects from one place to another. They will be industry and everyday lives systematized and gain increasingly advanced functions. Daifuku’s material handling technology plays a role Automobile assembly line systems 2012 Conveyor systems allow for flexible configuration so that chassis transport height Even if they do not sell well now, the day when they not only in factories and production sites, but is found can be adjusted to the height of the worker, providing optimal ergonomics. are needed is sure to come.” Convinced of this, Masuda throughout society’s infrastructure, including storage looked to U.S.-based Jervis B. Webb Company (Webb, of medical equipment and medicine in hospitals, and in baggage handling systems at airports, among others. 2011 now part of the Daifuku Group) for advanced system technology, gaining an opportunity to leap forward. Methods for moving goods are as varied as the goods themselves, and requirements differ from one customer to the next. As needs have changed with the times, The Webb conveyor that supported mass 1959 Daifuku has strived to identify those needs, refine its Conveyors Bear the Infrastructure of the Future Delivered to Japan’s first passenger automobile factory production of the Ford Model T, the Taking advantage of delivering a chain conveyor to Toyota Motor’s Motomachi technology and respond to its customers’ expectations. Factory, Daifuku enhanced its reputation by responding to a variety of requirements. “peoples’ car” Daifuku continues to pursue advanced material handling Automobiles were previously out of reach for any but Achieving dramatic growth by staking the technology to support society. the wealthy. However, the advent of the Ford Model T, future of the company on motorization introduced through a new production system of full-scale assembly lines using conveyors, made them attainable for In the latter half of the 1950s, the Japanese economy shifted to a period of unprecedented growth, bringing with it 2001 the general public. rapid motorization. In 1957, Daifuku, which had formed a The chain conveyor delivered by Webb to Ford would technical partnership with Webb, was approached by Toyota Solutions for hospitals go on to support a mass production system that enabled Auto Body about delivering a chain conveyor to its new Automated warehouse systems and vertical carousels, combined with automatic guided vehicles, can automate the storage, supply and collection of surgical Ford to produce a record 15 million Model T cars. factory. This was the moment when all the hard work, the instruments and help hospitals save space. many different obstacles overcome in the belief that the age of the conveyor would eventually arrive, came to fruition. 2017 Subsequently, Daifuku received a series of orders for largescale projects, including for Toyota Motor’s (now Toyota Motor Corporation) first passenger car factory, and for Toyo Kogyo’s (now Mazda Motor Corporation) new factory. With this rapid growth, Daifuku would move on to do business exclusively as a material handling system manufacturer. Cleanroom transport systems for semiconductor production In response to the growing size of semiconductor wafers and the need for miniaturization, Daifuku supports production lines with transport systems incorporating the latest technology. 1920s Solutions for airports worldwide Daifuku’s airport technologies play a role in ensuring safe, secure, comfortable air travel, with belt conveyors, tilt-tray systems, and automated Mass production of the Ford Model T Forged rivetless chain baggage check-in systems. 11 Daifuku CSR Report 2017 Daifuku CSR Report 2017 12 The vision then-president Hirosawa laid out at the time of construction continues to be Plans for construction An 80-Year Chronicle: Environment followed today, and the Shiga Works grew to become the world’s largest material handling site, with a total of 11 factories. Going forward, Daifuku will continue to work toward achieving of an industrial park Toshio Hirosawa President of Daifuku Machinery Works Co., Ltd. a sustainable society, devoting itself to trusted manufacturing and a rich natural environment. Shiga Works today (1967-1977) Daifuku’s longtime dream was to have a highly productive, employee-focused factory in an environment rich in nature. In 1970, the Company acquired 1.2 million square meters of land in Shiga Prefecture, Japan, and began construction of an industrial park that would become the Hino Plant (now the Shiga Works). Factories Where Nature and Technologies are in Harmony Creating a site where manufacturing and the natural environment co-exist 1994 Hini Arata Kan logistics demo center opened in 1994. It serves not only as a development and production site, but also plays an important role in business by providing a place to communicate with customers. Construction progresses at the Hino Plant, a welcoming place surrounded by lush greenery 1970 In 2006, a factory with a high-rise research facility was completed. In the 2010s, under Daifuku’s Environmental Vision 2020 (formulated in 2011), 2013 saw the installation of the Mega A factory appreciated by its community, Solar power plant at the Shiga Works, the largest such installation that raises the spirits of its employees in Shiga Prefecture at the time. In 2014, Daifuku launched the World’s largest logistics demo center, Hini Arata Kan, opens On display are 400 items, 150 categories of material handling systems and equipment that represent Daifuku’s technology Daifuku acquired extensive land for a factory on the eastern Yui Project*, activities to protect biodiversity. These efforts and expertise. shore of Lake Biwa. The objective was to achieve its vision for an industrial park, a production site that would co-exist with the enabled Daifuku to achieve its vision of an industrial park where 2014 manufacturing and preservation of the natural environment co-exist. natural environment, emphasize its ties with the local community, The abundance of nature at the Shiga Works has raised and foster a productive nature amongst its employees. employee awareness of the environment, and has led to the At the groundbreaking ceremony, Toshio Hirosawa, thendevelopment of environmentally friendly Eco-Products and the president, said that he hoped the factory would be appreciated promotion of environmental protection activities. by the community, and raise the spirits of employees. This large*Yui means to “bring together,” and the project refers to activities to bring scale, long-term vision gradually but steadily took shape. together “water with greenery, people with nature, and people to people.” 1974 2006 Green Strategy To improve team spirit within the Company, 2013 employees themselves Yui no Mori did everything from Yui no Mori was developed as part of efforts to protect biodiversity. weeding, clearing, and In addition to protecting the indigenous species, Yui no Mori is used preparing the industrial Daifuku Shiga Mega Solar 17,752 solar panels are installed on grounds as a place of learning, both inside and outside the Company. site to transplanting measuring about 52,000 square meters. With trees. Signing ceremony for purchase of the industrial site a generating capacity of 4,400 kW, it produces Then-president Hirosawa at the signing ceremony held on January 31, 4.3 million kWh annually. 1970 in the meeting hall of the Hino Town assembly. High-rise research facility The 45-meter-high R&D tower is a local landmark, in which various tests of durability and innovative 13 Daifuku CSR Report 2017 technology are conducted on the 40-meter-tall Daifuku CSR Report 2017 14 stacker crane. 2006 Flowers for their colors, An 80-Year Chronicle: Human Resources Osamu Sato Today, a company founded in 1937 with just 150 Mental and Physical Health Promotion Committee Events and seminars open to all were held as part of efforts to create a safe, people for their hearts reassuring workplace and promote good health. President of Daifuku Machinery Works Co., Ltd. employees is now a global enterprise with more (1977-1989) than 8,000 employees. This is also the history of Then-president Sato quoted these words from an old poem. “Flowers are meant to be enjoyed for their colors; challenge at a company that, in the 80 years since Measure ❶ Mental people should be judged by their hearts. If managers know their subordinates’ hearts, they will learn to value its founding, and through repeated trial and error, Line care, which offered guidance to managers and supervisors on looking after their staff, and self-care handbooks were created. them, and themselves as well. We must not forget that before we are businesspeople, we are human.” This took on advanced initiatives and systemic reforms, Mental health sessions were conducted using these handbooks. desire to nurture people is carried on today. both for the development of its business and for the growth of its employees. President Sato’s spirit of comprehensive welfare lives on today. A diverse and positive culture opens a path to the future In 2003, Daifuku introduced a new human resources Measure ❷ Physical system emphasizing not only results, but process. This Employees exercising at their helped further solidify the diverse and positive culture that desks. This creates opportunities for making exercise a habit and Then-president Sato speaking with junior employees is such an important foundation in enhancing employees’ for creating awareness of good health. motivation, sense of reward and willingness to take Revolutionary programs ahead of their times enabling the Company to build a culture that valued people early on challenges, in enriching communication between Measure ❸ In the 1960s and 1970s, Daifuku introduced a number of on. In 1986, based on his long-held belief that, “Ultimately, supervisors and their subordinates, and in developing Diet Healthy People Inhabit a Sound Company revolutionary programs, including full employee status and management comes down to how well you value the people Food education with lunch. Participants enjoy health-conscious lunches while learning human resources at Daifuku. from talks by nutritionists. monthly salaries for all personnel (1965), a five-day work week in your organization,” Sato organized his approach to With changes in the structure of industry and in the (1969), and mandatory retirement at 60 years of age (1974). comprehensive employee welfare centered around the concepts workplace environment, mental health has also become a In 1984, Daifuku launched “Hatsuratsu Trim,” a health and of an abundant life, a rewarding life, and a life free of uncertainty. social issue. As the number of employees feeling mentally wellbeing campaign to encourage good health through habitual unwell began to rise, in 2006 Daifuku established an exercise and sports, and established its Lifecycle Plan (LCP) 1969 1974 organization-wide Mental and Physical Health Promotion consulting office for employees seeking advice on everyday Committee, led by management. Its efforts focused on problems from when they are hired to the time they retire. creating a lively, positive workplace environment through The Company built deeper ties between its employees by enhancing their benefits program with athletic events, softball a variety of health promotion measures and events based 2010 on various health-related issues. Anzen-Taikan Dojo hands-on safety games, summer festivals and other events held around Japan. training facilities The Company also works to create comfortable, These facilities provide simulated Then-president Sato was active in creating opportunities to speak experiences of the dangerous work healthy workplaces while ensuring safety, with the goal involved in equipment installation and other jobs. It comprises various themes, with junior employees, and his open approach to employee of enhancing the working and private lives of each including falls, electric shocks, and fire among others. relations won him their respect and confidence. employee. These efforts to achieve work-life balance Thanks to the efforts of its people, Daifuku was able through labor, safety, and health are highly lauded outside to overcome the post war turbulence and other challenges, the company as well. 2017 1972 Full five-day work week Mandatory retirement at age 2016 The second Saturday of each 60 introduced month was designated a day off. Launch of mandatory retirement Recognized as a Health and In 1971, two Saturdays a month, at age 60, with the goal of Productivity Excellent Company 2017 and in 1973 four Saturdays a leveraging the experience and (White 500) by METI month were designated days off expertise of senior personnel The Ministry of Economy, Trade and (from the in-house newsletter at (from the in-house newsletter at Industry’s Health and Productivity the time). the time). Management Organization 2017 (White 1984 500) award recognizes companies whose health management practices are particularly outstanding, based on initiatives aligned with regional health issues and health promotion efforts The Hatsuratsu put forward by the Nippon Kenko Kaigi Trim campaign (Japan Health Council). Daifuku, its health insurance association, and its labor union created the Health Promotion Group, and launched efforts to make exercise Daifuku’s playing field a regular lifestyle habit (from the inMulti-purpose ground Located adjacent to the Komaki Plant (now the Komaki Works) A new welfare facility was established at the Shiga Works with the goal of The President’s Cup softball tournament was held to commemorate the opening of house newsletter at the time). promoting employee health and greater communication between employees. the field. 15 Daifuku CSR Report 2017 Daifuku CSR Report 2017 16 Provide Smart Logistics A Company That Supports Society Develop Increase environmentally open friendly innovation products Achieving and the Future Value Achieve Innovation work-life Raise labor balance productivity CSR Action Plan Revised 2020 Number of Ⅰ Ⅱ Percentage inventors*1 receiving information As Daifuku marks its 80th anniversary in 2017, it has 240 Provide high Strengthen security training 100 % Promote diversity Optimize Group established Value Innovation 2020, a new four-year quality products risk management Strengthen governance medium-term business plan, along with a revised and services human resource CSR Action Plan. – Maintain and improve product quality – Ensure compliance and prevent corruption management The six initiatives set out in Daifuku’s CSR to satisfy customer needs around – Promote and strengthen information the world security measures formulated in 2014 will continue to serve as pillars – Strengthen technology – Continue expanding business of the plan; while some specific initiatives reflect development platform continuity management societal trends, KPIs*, targets and scope have been set for every item. Daifuku will further extend its CSR activities by Contribution putting the Action Plan into practice, with the goal Ⅵ Ⅲ to reducing CO2 CSR of achieving a sustainable society in 2020, the emission from products and services*2 ultimate deadline for these targets, and beyond into the future. Contribute to the 100,000 t-CO2 Nurture relationships of *Key Performance Indicators: A quantitative performance environment through trust with our suppliers evaluation index that measures target achievement. corporate activities Action – Promote CSR procurement – Promote environmentally friendly in the supply chain Details of the CSR Action Plan are available on our website at: activities in business operations www.daifuku.com/sustainability/management/plan/ – Expand environmentally friendly Percentage of products and services suppliers visited Plan (cumulative) 80 – Strengthen environmental management platform 2020 Targets: Global % 2020 Targets: Japan Number Ⅴ Ⅳ participating in social Initiatives I through VI include main KPIs and numerical targets. contribution activities Create good relations Respect human dignity 2,000 people with communities (human rights, labor practices, safety, health) Average paid – Encourage communication with leave utilization rate – Eliminate workplace accidents 70 shareholders and investors and serious accidents – Encourage communication with local communities and society at large, – Promote diversity % – Create a comfortable workplace and social contribution activities environment – Promote human resource development *1 The maker of the invention who is also listed as inventor on the patent application form *2 CO2 volume after subtracting all CO2 emissions of Daifuku products and services in society from CO2 emissions in fiscal 2005, used as a base standard for environmental performance at the time 17 Daifuku CSR Report 2017 Daifuku CSR Report 2017 18
