United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress October 2017 Statutory statement in accordance with section 99a of the Danish Financial Statements Act. Declaration of Continued Support On behalf of Henning Larsen Architects A/S, member of United Nations Global Compact since 2008, we are happy to reaffirm our continued support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact within the areas of human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. In this 2017 Communication on Progress, we describe initiatives and actions taken to integrate the principles into our business strategy, management, organizational values and culture, and daily operations. Henning Larsen is committed to uphold the high standards set by Global Compact and to share this commitment across our organization and with external stakeholders. Since joining United Nations Global Compact, we have placed particular emphasis on promoting sustainable architecture, urban spaces, and interior design. Through a knowledge-based approach to design, sustainability has grown to become a inherent part of our business strategy and an invariable principle of our practice as architects and designers. Henning Larsen has also initiated an effort to work actively with United Nations' 17 Sustainable Development Goals of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. These will assist in guiding our efforts within CSR. While maintaining and constantly strengthening our focus on sustainability, we are also aware of the challenges that present themselves when operating a global organization. We work in more than 20 different countries and encounter many different cultures, traditions and political systems. As architects, we thrive in a variety of contexts, and we continue to work in countries and cultures in which our architecture and design can make a difference and contribute to improving quality of life. As a company, we are commited to reacting if we experience any violation of human rights, labor rights or harmful acts towards our environment. On behalf of the Partner Group of Henning Larsen Architects A/S, Mette Kynne Frandsen Louis Becker CEO, Partner Design Principal, Partner Contents 1.0 Introduction to Henning Larsen 6 2.0 Status on Support 7 3.0 Human Rights 8 4.0 Labor 12 5.0 Environment 16 6.0 Anti-Corruption 21 7.0 Charter for Social Responsibility in the Building Sector 22 8.0 Nordic Built Charter 23 9.0 Contact 25 United Nations Global Compact Henning Larsen Originating from the Scandinavian architectural tradition, we aim to create vibrant, sustainable buildings that transcend their physical bounds and provide lasting value to the user, culture and society of which they are part. Henning Larsen is one of the most progressive architectural Kong, Riyadh, Oslo, New York and the Faroe Islands, we work practices in the world. Born from the Scandinavian architecglobally, but always with a local presence. tural tradition of aesthetically, socially and intellectually driven design, we aim to create vibrant, sustainable buildWe challenge, shape and change the physical environment, ings that transcend their physical bounds and provide from architecture to planning and design – creating good lasting value to the user, culture and society of which they social spaces for human connection and activity. Our experare part. tise lies in identity-creating cultural buildings, educational institutions, headquarters and cities. Our approach is scienWe were founded in 1959 by Danish architect, Henning tific and evidence-based. We master all aspects of complex Larsen, whose name we proudly carry today. We create construction processes with resolute professionalism. We architecture with curiosity and artistic audacity that rests on take responsibility and never compromise on quality. a foundation of knowledge and attention to detail. Our projects are generous and give people the opportunity to The field we work in is defined by people, daylight and space. experience the unexpected. We work together in a non-hierOur solutions are living architecture, designed for people. archical community. We bring daylight into all of our buildings, because daylight gives rise to life and joy. As architects, space is our foundaCopenhagen is our base, but our projects are born in harmotion – and we design it in an ever-evolving process that ny with the world around us. With offices in Munich, Hong pushes the boundaries of what is possible. Harpa Conference Centre and Concert Hall in Reykjavík, Iceland Communication on Progress 2017 Status on Support This report is our seventh Communication on Progress (CoP) in which we address and renew our commitment to United Nations Global Compact's ten principles Henning Larsen joined the United Nations Global Compact in This year, Henning Larsen has committed to work actively 2008 to participate in the international partnership between with United Nations' 17 Sustainable Development Goals of UN and the corporate world with the objective to promote the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development with primary the committment for companies to operate in ways that emphasis on, but not limited to, goals no. 4, 11, 12, and 13: meet fundamental responsibilites in the areas of human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. 4. Ensure inclusive and equitable quality education and promote lifelong learning opportunities for all. This report will be publicly accesible for external partners 11. Make cities and human settlements inclusive, safe, and collaborators through our website and will be published resilient and sustainable. globally to all employees on our intranet. This way we 12. Ensure sustainable consumption and production communicate our ethical standards and values transparently. patterns. 13. Take urgent action to combat climate change and its As Architects we are able to make the greatest difference in impacts. the world and for its inhabitants through the built environment. Our projects reflect this premise as they are based on For the coming year, we aim to draw up policies describing a holistic approach to sustainability and always strive to add how we will integrate the premises of the goals with our lasting value to users while making important contributions business strategy, operations, stakeholder relations, and not to the surrounding culture and society. least our projects in which we will employ the Sustainable Development Goals as design drivers in our methodology. Moesgaard Museum in Aarhus, Denmark 7 United Nations Global Compact Human Rights People are at the center of everything we do at Henning Larsen. It is what drives our design process towards solutions that stimulate human interaction and improve quality of life. Henning Larsen supports and respects the protection of strive to support local improvement of human rights and we internationally proclaimed human rights and will, to the wish to actively engage in current developments towards extend our capacity allows, prevent any violation of human improving quality of life. and fundamental constitutional rights. We will not take active part in intentional abuse of human rights. For more than 20 years, Henning Larsen has been working in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia (KSA) and in 2008, we chose Henning Larsen complies with the provisions of Danish to open a local office in Riyadh, which today employs 10 legislation which is fully aligned with international convenpeople. The staff is comprised of different genders, nationations on human rights. In addition to our commitment to lities, cultural backgrounds, and spiritual orientations. prevent any violation or negative impact on human rights, we actively support and promote the enjoyment of human In 2015, Henning Larsen was awarded the prize as Architecrights by the projects we choose to engage in, by our ture Firm of the year in KSA. In 2017, our local Partner, approach to architecture, and by our recruitment process, Aljohara AlSaud, received her architectural business license employment policy and intern program. as one of the first female Architects in the histiory of KSA. Henning Larsen is proud to participate in and contribute to Actively seeking opportunities to make a change this development. An important issue to address when operating an international organization, is the encounters with local legislation and We choose to take actively part in societal change by engatraditions which do not comply sufficiently with internatioging in dialogue and collaboration. Through our design we nal conventions on human rights. At Henning Larsen, we are able to promote human rights and the concept of freeImage from the offical Danish royal visit in Saudi Arabia by the Crown Prince and Princess of Denmark, 2016. Communication on Progress 2017 dom and thus, we believe that it is our obligation as Arcally screen all incoming projects and will decline any chitects to be involved in regions and projects which strive project which purpose will entail a violation of United towards better conditions for our planet and the human race. Nations' universal declaration on human rights. In 2016/17, we have declined to work in Lebanon. We believe that by not being involved in activities that aspire towards change and solving societal challenges, we passively Promoting Gender Equality choose to accept current situations. Our accomplishments in With the addition of five new partners in October 2016, two e.g. KSA proves that we in fact are able to contribute positiof which are female, the partner group of Henning Larsen vely by choosing to engage in the right projects and collaboconsists of 15 individuals 19 globally including local partrations. ners. In total Henning Larsen has seven female partners and 12 male partners. Henning Larsen deliberately declines invitations to engage in projects or collaborations when our assesment of a Henning Larsen is led by a female CEO, and in 2016/17, country, region, or organization proves that our involvement Henning Larsen expanded the management group with two will potentially contribute to supporting violation of internanew female managers: Helle Basse Larsen as Head of Operationally proclaimed human rights. tions and Frida Ferdinand as Head of Business Development and Marketing. We only engage in projects and collaborations with and for organizations and individuals who support and respect the As per June 2017, the Henning Larsen group employs a total basic rights and freedoms of human beings. We systematiof 275 people in 7 different offices. 48% are female and 52% New partners in Henning Larsen, October 2016. From left: Michael Sørensen, Sarah Müllertz, Nina la Cour Sell, Jakob Strømann-Andersen og Kasper Kyndesen. 9 United Nations Global Compact are male. The office in Copenhagen employs the majority of public services no longer function, volunteers risk their lives the individuals working at Henning Larsen, totalling 188 to help innocent people who suffer the terrors of war. In an people. 54% identify themselves as female and 46% identify effort to help and support the work of the White Helmets, themselves as male. Finally, the Board of Directors of HenHenning Larsen donated DKK 40,000 to the organization. ning Larsen Architects A/S is made up of three females and three males. Our ambition for Henning Larsen globally is to Goals for 2017/18 achieve equal gender distribution. Henning Larsen's goal for the next year is to strengthen our procedures across all offices for screening potential projects, All employees at Henning Larsen are employed because of clients and collaborators. We will renew and update practitheir talent and skills, not their gender. ces in order to increasingly act proactively and globally aligned as well as procedures which outline a course of Supporting the White Helmets in Syria action in the unfortunate case that Henning Larsen should In 2016/17, Henning Larsen chose to support the Syrian discover that any stakeholder does not respect or work to Civil Defense known as the White Helmets. In a place where protect human rights proclaimed by the United Nations. Communication on Progress 2017 At Frederiksbjerg Skole in Aarhus, Denmark, the pupils are allowed to run in the hallways. 11 United Nations Global Compact Labor Henning Larsen has offices in Copenhagen, Hong Kong, Munich, New York, Oslo, Riyadh and on the Faroe Islands, and in total employs 275 people. These people are our greatest assets. All employees at Henning Larsen are treated equally and all of Architectural Firms which collaborates with the Danish employment contracts comply with international conventiUnion of Salaried Architects and the Danish Architects' ons and local legislation. Through a law-abiding contract Association. with all employees, we ensure and govern employees' health, safety, working conditions and rights. Henning Larsen These organizations safeguard and balance individual and constantly monitors employees' well-being and works to commercial interests as regards collective bargaining, legiseliminate all forms of forced and cumpolsory labor, abolish lation concerning salaried employees, labor market, induchild labor, and eliminate any kind of diskrimination. strial and educational policies etc. Through colleborative efforts, Henning Larsen upholds the freedom of association Denmark and effect recognition of the right to collective bargaining. The danish labor market, in which Henning Larsen employs 188 people, is largely self-regulated by collective agreements International concluded between trade unions and employers' organizatiAll employees are secured through a contract. All contracts ons and is to some extent statutorily regulated by the Danish within Henning Larsen comply with national legislation and state and EU bodies. all employees are provided with a staff handbook. The staff handbook for all offices is accesible through our intranet and Henning Larsen participates in, respects, and supports this describes any individual's rights as an employee at Henning system thorugh our membership in the Danish Association Larsen as well as procedures and policies for good behavior. Colleagues from Copenhagen and Munich celebrating the opening of Siemens' new headquarter. Communication on Progress 2017 The staff hanbook guides the employee in regards to e.g. Ressources have been assigned to the project which will be maternity leave, illness, mobility, confidentiality etc. developed in accordance with our design methodology. Each office is associated with a staff handbook that is adjuThe initial research has led to defining the following goals sted to comply with national legislation and respect for the for the project: local culture in question. • To improve the indoor climate of our office space; • To ensure that our workplace accomodates different Creating Job Satisfaction modes of working; In 2016/17, Henning Larsen has conducted an annual • To increase visibility of our projects and work. workplace assesment as prescribed by Danish law. Among other things, the assesment suggests that the physical The staff at our office in Copenhagen has been interviewed working environment presents some challenges and is due and has been invited to take part in a co-creative excerise for improvements in order to enhance employees' ability to through which the final solution will be identified. The work creatively, efficiently and ergonomically. project is expected to be completed and implemented by the end of 2017/18. Supported by the Board of Henning Larsen Architects A/S, the Executive Management has decided to initiate and invest in a refurbishment of the office facilities in Copenhagen. Copenhagen office. 13 United Nations Global Compact Stress part of the organizational culture at Henning Larsen has Stress is something that Henning Larsen takes very seriously, always been to embrace and encourage diversity believing and by monitoring employees' worload, we work proactivey that exposure to various cultures and backgrounds contrito prevent that our employees suffer from the illness. butes to our development as human beings and enables a greater understanding of the world we build in and the In the unfortunate case that an employees become ill due people we build for. to stress, we offer support and assist during the process of recovery. Skilled personel and a written course of action All employees are perceived and treated as equal indviduals ensures that employees with stress are offered the sufficent of equal value regardsless of their gender, cultural backhelp. Henning Larsen defines a personal plan according to ground, position or seniority. At Henning Larsen, the best individual needs in order to achieve the best recovery. idea wins regardless of authorship. Further training and earning Each year, we employ more than 40 interns on a short-term At Henning Larsen, education and further training is parabasis. All interns are paid a fair wage for their contribution mount. As the world changes around us, we must ensure and their professional development is closely followed by that we as architects, designers, engineers, constructing management. Henning Larsen assists with accommodation, architects, project managers and leaders also develop and visa processes etc., Furthermore, Henning Larsen has inveimprove our skills and acquire new knowledge. sted in an apartment in close proximity to the office in Copenhagen. The apartment accomodates six interns. During 2016/17, more than half of our staff has participated in further training programs or conferences, and more than Henning Larsen Culture Club 10 study trips to various locations have been conducted. Culture Club is a staff organization, run by the staff for the Furthermore, Henning Larsen encourages employees to staff in Copenhagen, with the purpose of strengthening the share knowledge internally and across offices. Different social relationships amongst employees. Through events forums focussing on a particular field of work, e.g. project such as friday bars, excursions, study trips etc. all employees management, design leadership and office management, are are welcomed and encouraged to particiapate in social set up to enable employees to share knowledge and experigatherings both inside and outside normal working hours. ences, and to proactively work with challenges and opportunities within our organization. Goals for 2017/18 Focus for the next year is to sustain a strong focus on educaFinally, Henning Larsen facilitates a series of internal lectuting our staff. Furthermore, we wish to offer our employees res which zoom in on different topics. We call these Lunch a better working environment. For us, this naturally entails and Learn . All employees are invited to bring lunch and an office space that is based on sustainable and healthy participate during their break. solutions to the extent our current space allows. Henning Larsen will for the coming year invest in a substantial Embracing Diversity refurbishment of the office space in Copenhagen in order to Globally, Henning Larsen employs people representing 31 acheive a healthier work environment for out employees. nationalities. 47% of the employees are female, 53% are male. The avarage age is 37, the youngest being 20 and the Furthermore, we want to increase our focus on diversity. eldest being 74 years old. Globally across all offices, we wish to represent an even more diverse group of people than currently on all levels of Henning Larsen condemns all kinds of discrimination and the organization. activily pursue elimination of all prejudices. An inherent Communication on Progress 2017 Moesgaard Museum in Aarhus, Denmark 15 United Nations Global Compact Environment At Henning Larsen, research and innovation are a natural part of any design process. We develop the most sustainable solutions through our knowledge-based approach. Good architecture is sustainable architecture. At Henning tion components. Information in materials has been collectLarsen, sustainability is a design approach where all phases ed and organized in an internal database; a powerful tool and aspects of a project are qualified in terms of sustainabilavailable to employees to evaluate materials, their qualities, ity. We are committed to continuously advance the field of toxicity and ethics, and Life Cycle Assessment (LCA). architecture through research and innovation, promote environmental behaviour, and encourage development and LCA evaluates the products from cradle to grave: from dissimination of sustainable and environmental technoloextraction of raw materials and natural ressources, through gies and knowledge. production and use of the product. This includes maintenance and repairs, and furthermore considers the final As one of the only architectural practices in the world, disposal and possible reuse of the discarded product. The Henning Larsen has inhouse resources commited to reless strain on the environment, the longer the lifespand of search. Our team of architects, engineers, landscape archithe product. tects and inhouse Ph.D.’s conduct research on daylight and artificial lighting, sustainable materials, facade design, Recycled Bricks Reduces CO2 Emissions by 1 Million Kg acoustics, and sustainable urban development. Our goal is to By using recycled bricks in six projects, data shows that create solutions that move architecture into a sustainable Henning Larsen has saved 1.15 million kg of CO2. future. In recent years, Henning Larsen has designed five large-scale residential projects and a school, all of which have recycled Database of Sustainable Materials brick facades. This choice of materials in the six buildings In the work with sustainable design it has been an inevitable combined represents a total saving of 1.15 million kg of CO2, step to focus on the use and reuse of materials and construccompared to when using new bricks. That is equal to the The facade of Frederikbjerg Skole in Aarhus, Denmark, is constructed using recycled bricks. Communication on Progress 2017 emission of 10,000 one-way flights between Copenhagen has been verified by a third party, and the documents are and New York City. available on Technological Institute’s website. The comparison of the new vs. recycled bricks is based solely At Henning Larsen, we are committed to reducing the envion activities in the production phases as defined in the EU ronmental impact of our buildings. Using recycled brick, is standard for sustainability of construction works, EN15804. one way to actively contribute to reducing the environmenOne ton of newly manufactured bricks releases 258 kg of tal impact of our work. CO2 emissions, whereas a ton of recycled bricks emits 2,7 kg. It means that new bricks emit 95 times more CO2 in its Organizational Changes production than recycled bricks. To combine our knowledge within microclimate design, botanic engineering and rainwater management with the The six buildings are the Frederiksbjerg School in Aarhus, innovative use of nature and landscape, we have decided to two residential projects at Islands Brygge (Pollux + Castor), gather all inhouse skills within sustainability, engineering the Jacobsen Hus in the Carlsberg City, a residential project and landscape design in one multidisciplinary research lab. at Sandkajen in Nordhavnen, and the Nimbus youth residenHenning Larsen announced five new partners in 2016/17. tial project in Frederiksberg, Copenhagen. All projects have One of these is PhD, MSc. Arch. Eng. Jakob Strømann-Andersbeen under construction during all of or parts of 2016/17. en. He will head the development of the new structure. Jakob is the first partner at Henning Larsen who does not have a The data for our brick comparison derives from an EPD for background in traditional architecture. recycled Danish bricks and is compared with an EPD for newly manufactured Danish bricks. The data in both EPDs Sustainability Engineering and Landscape Design, 2017 17 United Nations Global Compact New Research Projects We encourage employees to participate in e.g. advisory During 2016/17 Henning Larsen has engaged in two new boards, councils, interviews and accept invitations to teach industrial PhD projects. and research. We engage in public debates and share knowledge through our communication channels, social media and Under the title Designing the Common: Tools for Creating publications. Furthermore, we assist our employees in Shared Space PhD. student within ethnology, Drew sharing knowledge and material related to activities within Thilmany will investigate new behaviors associated with Henning Larsen (see examples here and here). shared spatial environments and explore how these can be addressed through architectural design. The PhD is supReducing and Reusing ported by Innovationsfonden and Realdania and is a collaboIn 2016 Henning Larsen in Copenhagen invested in a new ration between Henning Larsen and Københavns Universitet. canteen program. The choice of provider was made on a This is our first PhD project within social science. basis on increasing the quality of the food and to obtain a healthier and more sustainable profile of the food we serve our In 2016/17, we have also invested in a virtual reality (VR) employees in Copenhagen. lab located at our office in Copenhagen. With the research Therefore, Henning Larsen has chosen to partner with conducted by industrial PhD. in acoustics, Finnur Pind, we Cheval Blanc who are able to meet our requirements. Our are able to implement sounds in the mix of data used in our lunch is now partly produced of organic ingredients, and the design process. When realistic 3D-sounds are added, it gives staff at Cheval Blanc is trained to minimize food waste and an extra dimension and makes the data significantly more base the meals on a nutritionally correct diet. applicable in the design of spaces. The PhD by Finnur Pind is supported by Innovationsfonden and Realdania and is a In 2016, Henning Larsen donated approximately 30 used collaboration between Henning Larsen and The Technical computers to Africa. Through an NGO, the old computers University of Denmark. were reparied and sent to schools in Sierra Leone and Ghana where teachers and students will benefit fromt them in their Certifications educational programs. A Henning Larsen, we supervise and conduct documentation within LEED, DGNB and BREEAM. The audits can be reforGoals for 2017/18 med for existing projects, proposed concepts or design Our goal for the coming year is to further develop tools for strategies. measuring the effects of our building projects and designs and more effectively evaluate and improve our skills and In 2017, Partner Jakob Strømann-Andersen became a WELL knowledge within the area of sustainability. Accredited Professional (WELL AP), which means we now are able to quantifiably measure a building's effect on the user's well-being. An important step towards healthier, sustainable architecture. Thought Leadership We believe that it is our responsibility to share knowledge publicly in order to support and promote a sustainable agenda. Through publications, debates and public involvement, we are able to communicate transparently how architecture impacts our carbon footprint. Our ambition is to inspire fellow colleagues in the construction industry and spark new collaborations across different disciplinary fields. Communication on Progress 2017 Nordea's new headquarter in Ørestad, Copenhagen, is designed with the ambition to obtain the highest rating within the LEED certification system, LEED Platinum. The project was handed over to the owner in May 2017. 19 United Nations Global Compact The University of Southern Denmark in Kolding is designed to consume 60% less energy than that required by local code requirements of similar buildings. Communication on Progress 2017 Anti-corruption Henning Larsen works against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Henning Larsen has not directly nor indirectly been involved Goals for 2017/18 in or supported any kind of corruption during 2016/17. Our ambition for the next year is to further formlize our procedures which regard prevention of anti-corruption and As a professional, international organization, Henning to develop policies, suplementary to our staff handbooks, Larsen supports the United Nations' Convention Aagainst that directly address how to prevent and react towards Corruption and fully comply with Danish and international corruption, both internally and within our supply chains. legislation. A respectful and open relationship with our clients, collaborators, organizational affiliations and emploWe wish to further train relevant employees to act responsiyees is an essential part of all our projects and operations. bly, proactively and to enable them to react in case they experience any violation of good business behaviour. Henning Larsen is commited to fight corruption globally and will only engage in collaborations and relations that share the same mission. Umeå School of Architecture in Umeå, Sweden 21 United Nations Global Compact Charter for Social Responsibility in the Building Sector The association for Social Resposibility in the Building 1. We will systematically assess to what extent the prinSector was founded in November 2014 by 42 Danish compaciples of the charter are followed on projects in which nies including Henning Larsen. The initiative aims to develwe are involved. op and strengthen collaboration across the building sector 2. We will assess our collaborators' and suppliers' work to raise th standards for labor conditions, sustainability and with social responsibility. stakeholder dialogue. The association is supported by the 3. We will enter into dialogue with collaborators and Realdania Foundation. stakeholders. 4. We aim for sustainble solutions. The platform for the association is a charter comprising six 5. We have good conditions of employment and work. principles, which Henning Larsen is committed to uphold. 6. We demonstrate independent and anti-corrupt practice. Communication on Progress 2017 Nordic Built Charter Henning Larsen supports the Nordic Built Charter. The 1. is made for people and promote quality of life: charter is an initiative aimed at accelerating the develop2. pushes the limits of sustainable performance, as a result ment of sustainable building concepts. The program comof our innovative mind-set and high level of knowledge; bines key Nordic strengths, provides attactive and effective 3. merges urban living with the qualities of nature; arenas for collaboration and realizes concrete projects that 4. achieves zero emissions over its lifecycle; demonstrate world-class scalable solutions. 5. is functional, smart and aesthetically appealing, building on the best of the Nordic design tradition; The ten principles of the Nordic Built Charter include focus 6. is robust, durable, flexible and timeless built to last; on aesthetically appealing design while maintaining the 7. utilises local resources and is adapted to local condihighest possible standards for sustainability, which is centions; tral to all of Henning Larsen's projects and practices. 8. is produced and maintained through partnerships founded on transparent collaboration across borders The ten principles entails that Henning Larsen supports a and disciplines; built environment that: 9. employs in concepts that are scalable and used globally; 10. profits people, business and the environment; Frederiksbjerg Skole in Aarhus, Denmark includes a publically assecible playing field on the rooftop of the building. 23
