UN Global Compact Communication on Progress –2017 Statement of continued support I am pleased to confirm that Atradius N.V. reaffirms its support of the ten principles of the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) with respect to Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this, our eighth Communication on Progress, we express our intent to remain a ‘good corporate citizen’ by embedding these principles in our strategy, culture, and day-to-day operations. As a credit insurance company, our aim is to help our customers to conduct their business safely and with confidence. We believe that our products and services contribute to successful national and international trade and to our customers’ prosperity, and this is at the core of our commitment. In our commitment to the UNGC principles, our ambition is to continue to have a positive impact on our surroundings, and to strive for even higher reporting levels to guarantee our transparency and accountability. Isidoro Unda Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Atradius N.V. Atradius and CSR To understand the way in which we manage our positive impact in the world, it is important to first understand our commercial function. As a leading global credit insurer, Atradius' aim is to support our customers' growth by strengthening their credit and cash management. Our core product – credit insurance – provides a safety net in the event that any of our customers’ buyers fail to pay for the goods and services supplied on credit terms. In addition, we offer a wide range of credit management products and services, including bonding, debt collection and reinsurance, all of which are supported by the expertise of our people and a wealth of constantly updated financial data on over 200 million companies worldwide. At the heart of our business is our assessment of the ability of companies across the globe to pay and therein lies our social responsibility. We aim to stimulate the economy responsibly, analyse and safeguard millions of business relationships, and thus generate confidence in businesses from all sectors, sizes and countries to cooperate in worldwide trade. In this way, we enable over 60,000 businesses, shipping €800 billion in goods and services, to trade worldwide with almost 2.4 million customers. Around 2% of the value of global export trade takes place because of the insurance cover we provide. Thus, as a company whose remit is to enable successful trade, we believe that our biggest corporate responsibility is an economic one. Trade is by definition essential for the world’s economic development. It allows companies to grow, compete and improve their products, thereby creating employment and reducing poverty. Our credit insurance is a vital element in ensuring that trade, and those engaged in trade, remain safe and secure. Through the strict corporate governance that ensures that we run our business and manage risk for our customers in a transparent and ethical way, we play an important role in helping those many thousands of customers around the world to remain profitable and to provide both employment and valuable services to their markets and communities. The world is constantly changing, and to continue to serve our customers in this way we adapt and evolve as a business too. Each year we build on the foundation of service excellence which our customers value and have come to rely on, with product innovations designed to suit the specific needs of both small businesses and larger organizations, and a reinforcement of our drive for increased efficiency and improved customer service. Whether through our core credit insurance products or our other credit and risk management services, excelling in the way we serve our customers is the main driver of our strategy: a strategy that is designed to maintain our own profitability and to create wealth and employment for our customers. Indeed that strong customer focus has always been a defining characteristic of the way we do business. During the reporting period we continued to ensure that all our people understand the need to maintain a customer-focused mindset, whatever their role within the organization. Atradius Communication on Progress 2 That is a key factor in our CSR priority of, as it were, oiling the wheels of international trade with all the benefits that that brings in terms of wealth creation and well-being. Expertise in underwriting is at the core of what we do: one of the most fundamental aspects of our service proposition is our credit limit service. That is why we continue to invest in infrastructure that increases our underwriting capabilities. Atradius’ geographic expansion is of major strategic importance: we aim to support our customers wherever they do business, both now and in the future. Latin America, South East Asia, Africa and Russia are all focus areas that will contribute to our customers’ growth. Investment is the key to creating a solid base in these markets, ensuring that, wherever we are, we can offer the consistent excellence in underwriting, business intelligence, automation and communication that are our trademark. Above all else, our people are our most valuable asset: it is their skill and professionalism that set us apart and allow us to deliver best-in-class service to our customers. That is why we are committed to ongoing investment in our employees. It is through that investment that we continue to improve our expertise in risk management and build lasting, meaningful and fruitful relationships with our customers – and fulfill our mission. In the value creation model below, we present the way in which Atradius creates value. It shows the value we create in our value chain, our business model, the inputs we need to do business and the outputs and outcomes we deliver. Atradius Communication on Progress 3 Our Material Issues In 2014, we have conducted a materiality analysis involving our most important stakeholder groups to further improve our corporate responsibility activities. Materiality – or the identification of and focus on material topics – is a concept that is central to corporate responsibility reporting. It helps us understand what topics have a direct or indirect impact on our day to day business and on the value chain in which we operate. These topics then form the basis of what we focus our corporate responsibility efforts on and eventually, they will form the basis of what we report on. In 2017 we will update our materiality matrix. We are aware that strong stakeholder relationships is one of the requirements for an effective materiality analysis. That is why we have identified and prioritized our material topics by engaging internally across the business as well as externally with a broad set of stakeholders. We started off with a long list of relevant topics, which were discussed with a group of internal stakeholders such as top management, the Corporate Responsibility Team and the Corporate Strategy Department. These discussions resulted in a shortlist. From this shortlist, a survey was created that was sent to internal stakeholders – including the Atradius Leadership Team, employees and the European Works Council – as well as to external stakeholders – including suppliers, customers, regulators and the Dutch government. The shortlist constitutes the main topics that were discussed. We are always open to learning from people both inside and outside our business, because we believe that corporate responsibility is fundamentally an inclusive concept. This is one of the primary reasons why we have included stakeholders in our reporting and invited them to offer external perspectives on corporate responsibility at Atradius. We have included our stakeholders last year and this year, and aim to do so on an annual basis .The outcome of this stakeholder interaction was a clear understanding of which topics our external stakeholders want us to focus our efforts on. Based on the result of the stakeholder interaction and the materiality analysis as a whole, we will identify existing and new KPIs to be able to measure our material issues in a quantitative manner. Based on these KPIs we can steer our CSR efforts and increase their efficiency and effectiveness. The result of the analysis (including all stakeholder groups) is the materiality matrix shown below. The matrix shows the relative importance of each issue for our stakeholders and for our sustainability as a business. The resulting materiality matrix ensures we focus on the most material topics for our evolving business. We plan on revisiting our materiality analysis regularly to ensure our efforts remain aligned with what is most important to our business and our stakeholders. The material topics also provide an indicator for our overall strategy and strategic themes. When we see a shift in material topics, we will adapt our strategy likewise. Atradius Communication on Progress 4 Figure 1: Atradius Materiality Matrix 1 Economic development & growth of emerging 7 Customer loyalty & values markets 8 Cybercrime & protection of sensitive information 2 Digitisation & 24/7 economy 3 Regulation & legislation 9 Employee satisfaction & retention 4 Environmental protection & sustainable sourcing 10 Relationship management with partners and intermediaries 5 Demand of simplicity and transparency in 11 Compliance and integrity management product and service delivery 12 Corporate governance & risk management 6 Fraudulent claims & trustworthiness of customers Based on the Materiality Matrix and the United Nations Global Compact Ten Principles, we are setting up a reporting framework in 2018 following the GRI Sustainability Reporting Guidelines. The data gathering is forecast to start in 2017 to prepare our first GRI report. This reporting framework is in line with our strategy and is built around our three strategic themes ‘solvency’, ‘growth’, ‘profitability’. These themes are elaborated upon on below. Atradius Communication on Progress 5 Connectivity To make the relation between our strategy and our material issues transparent it is important to show the underlying connectivity. Our strategy is to achieve profitable and sustainable growth by focusing on three different pillars: Growth and Customer Service Pillar – including initiatives such as product or service development, geographic expansion, technology innovation and process improvements Profitability Pillar – including initiatives that target efficiency and positively impact the cost ratio. Solvency Pillar – including initiatives that focus on compliance. Economic development & growth of emerging markets Cybercrime & protection of sensitive information Relationship management with partners and intermediaries Employee satisfaction & Customer loyalty & values retention Fraudulent claims & trustworthiness of Compliance and integrity customers management Corporate governance & risk management Regulation & legislation Demand of simplicity and transparency in product and service delivery Environmental protection & Digitisation & 24/7 economy sustainable sourcing Stakeholder opinions “The first contact with Atradius was so positive that we immediately decided to go through with it and so far we have absolutely no regrets!” Gert Hendriksen, Managing Director, MPR & MPS “Atradius moves along with us, adapting to our needs and adjusting our credit insurance policy in the best possible way to support our aims.“ Bert Stellinga, Managing Director, Continental Banden Groep B.V. “Atradius has always been very professional and understand our commercial decisions. They listen to us and allow us to work with account managers who are accessible and pay attentions to our needs and our business.” Robert Maslin, General Manager of Credit, Elders Atradius Communication on Progress 6 The ten principles Principle Global Compact Principle Assessment, Implementation & Outcomes no. 1 Businesses should Our commitment to upholding human rights in their support and respect the many forms is embodied in our Code of Conduct, which protection of includes the corporate, legal and ethical compliance internationally principles that apply to every Atradius employee. proclaimed human rights. One example is the right to protection of personal data, which is embodied in our Code of Conduct and Compliance Codes. This right is embedded into the procedure for processing personal data at Atradius. Furthermore, our Supplier Code of Conduct includes guidelines for supplier behaviour, covering the support of and respect for human rights by our suppliers. In 2014, we started measuring our people’s perceptions of equal treatment in our Employee Engagement Survey. The survey states that, we acknowledge that human rights encompass much more than equal treatment. For that reason, during the next reporting period, we will include more KPIs regarding human rights in our data collection and analysis. In 2017 a renewed Employee Engagement Survey has been conducted. Atradius Communication on Progress 7 2 Businesses should make We ensure that we comply with this principle sure that they are not throughout our business, notably through prevention complicit in human of breaches of laws, rules and regulations as prescribed rights abuses. in our Compliance Code. Another way in which we ensure that we comply with this principle is by being transparent to the outside world in what we do and how we do it. For example, our ‘Evolve’ initiative, through which we motivate our staff to engage in continuous improvement, is embedded in Atradius’ values, and makes us as a company more reliable and accountable. No incidents on human rights abuses have been reported in the reporting period. 3 Businesses should Employee involvement is guaranteed through our uphold the freedom of employee representations or labour unions in countries association and the in which this is not prohibited. effective recognition of the right to collective One example of the implementation of this principle in bargaining. practice is the Works Councils which are present in some countries and also clustered regions – for example, Europe. During Works Council meetings, employees are able to raise concerns about specific topics. These topics are then discussed with the Management Board. No violations on freedom of associations have been reported in the reporting period. 4 Businesses should Our compliance with national and international laws uphold the elimination and rules prohibit these forms of labour in our of all forms of forced business. and compulsory labour. No violations of our strict rules preventing compulsory labour have been reported during the reporting period. 5 Businesses should Our compliance with national and international laws uphold the effective and rules prohibit all forms of child labour in our abolition of child labour. business. Atradius Communication on Progress 8 The Group Procurement Framework states that every (potential) supplier will be screened to find out whether or not they apply the same standards of ethical practice as Atradius, which also covers the abolition of child labour. No violations of our strict rules on child labour have been reported in the reporting period.When suppliers do not meet the standards of Atradius’ Code of Conduct, or any other issue arises from the screening we will start a dialogue with the (potential) supplier, urging them to better their ways. An action plan will result from these dialogues. In extreme cases, relationships with suppliers will be terminated 6 Businesses should Our Code of Conduct states that all employees and uphold the elimination potential employees are treated equally, regardless of of discrimination in their nationality, race, religion, age, sex, sexual respect of employment orientation, belief or due to disability. Furthermore, and occupation. harassment will not be tolerated. All incidents of discrimination or disrespect can be reported to our Employees’ supervisor, Human Resources representative, Group Compliance Manager, or designated owner. No incidents have been reported in the reporting period. 7 Businesses should Atradius has an environmental policy stating our support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges in our business. approach to environmental We have developed a system of measuring key challenges. performance indicators for each country in which we operate, to accurately gauge our consumption of energy and other resources. We also monitor how much of that is derived from renewable and recycled sources. Furthermore, our greenhouse gas emissions and our methods of disposal of waste materials are monitored. While our measurement methods do have some limitations, due to diversity among our different offices and data collectors, such that not all of our data are Atradius Communication on Progress 9 measured the same way, we are continuously seeking ways to make improvements. The definitions and measurement methods to gather information on our key performance indicators remained the same as previous years. An updated online data collection tool is being used to collect and aggregate the environmental KPI data. Our Country Managers in each country are responsible for the quality of the submitted data. Lastly the collected data is reviewed and verified at a central level. All of the above positively contributes to the quality of the obtained data. We plan to use these data in the development of objectives for further reductions of our environmental footprint. 8 Businesses should To promote greater environmental responsibility, undertake initiatives to initiatives have been introduced in respect of energy promote greater use, recycling and disposal of waste, transportation and environmental procurement. These are stipulated in our environmental responsibility. policy. Each year, we aim to reduce our energy consumption by efficient use and careful planning. Also, we minimize waste and recycle materials whenever possible. Furthermore, we make every endeavour to dispose our waste in safe and responsible ways and we establish travel plans that encourage staff to use alternatives to single-occupancy car use. 9 Businesses should Our environmental policy states that we are willing to encourage the make investments in order to improve our energy development and efficiency. diffusion of environmentally friendly If we identify inefficiencies in any current facilities, we technologies. will invest in environmentally friendly technologies in order to reduce our energy use and costs. Furthermore, our recently updated Corporate Real Estate Statement includes technical principles which explain that, for all technical specifications of buildings, requirements for environmental and sustainability factors are taken into account. Atradius Communication on Progress 10 In Belgium the staff moved to a new sustainable office building which has been designed to offer high quality public spaces. It also includes a new pedestrian street, a new park and a public square. The office building will apply for a BREEAM ‘very good’ certificate because of its very efficient energy performance. 10 Businesses should work Our Code of Conduct states that bribery and corruption against corruption in all are never allowed. its forms, including extortion and bribery. Atradius employees are trained in this topic and are firmly instructed not to accept gifts if this creates an obligation for the receiving party. No incidents of corruption and bribery were reported in the reporting period. Atradius Communication on Progress 11 Activities across the Atradius Group At Atradius, people in different offices in various countries work on CR. We have a global CR team, consisting of seven people from various departments and located all over the world. This team is responsible for our group CR activities, including the identification of material CR issues, the development of the CR policy and the evaluation of our activities. The team reports to Isidoro Unda, the CEO and Chairman of the Management Board. In this manner, the Management Board keeps control and overview regarding our CR activities. Each team member gets to spend 5 per cent of his or her work time on CR activities. Apart from this global CR team, each country has local CR activities coordinated by its Country Manager, who is responsible and accountable for the local implementation and maintenance of the CR strategy and the reporting on the applicable KPIs. Apart from our commitment to the United Nations’ Global Compact Principles, it is the hard work and enthusiasm of our entrepreneurial employees that makes our corporate responsibility a reality. Below, we describe just some of the CR activities that result from the enthusiasm and imagination of our people across the world. This report is published on the 9th of June 2017. Our people drive our corporate responsibility progress One example of a great activity initiated by our people is our annual participation in the Amsterdam City Swim. The Amsterdam City Swim is a charity event in which money is raised to find a cure for Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis (ALS). Last year more employees have chosen for Electric cars which can be charged at the office. As the employees mainly use these cars for commuting to the office, this has a significant impact on fuel consumption. Another experiment has been kicked off to stimulate the use of electric bikes in-stead of conventional cars, this is both a stimulus for a healthier lifestyle and is a boost for the environment. Atradius Communication on Progress 12 Ambition level In the past few years we have developed our corporate social responsibility policy into one that we are proud of, which is why our ambition is to keep performing according to this policy. However, our commitment to corporate responsibility means that we can never ‘rest on our laurels’ and be satisfied with our performance. It is important that we keep progressing in our ambition and formulate objectives for each period. Our aim is to achieve in 2019 the following: report externally fully on all UNGC principles. achieve GRI reporting with A+ application level have external auditor’s reassurance of our CR reporting Dilemma’s Doing business means making decisions on the best way to go forward. Sometimes these choices are easy, sometimes conflicting interests make it harder to choose. Below, we highlight two of these issues Atradius aims to be a profitable company, and we want to make sure our positive impact on society and the planet is as big as possible. To improve sustainability, we need to look at long goals. However, we need to keep our company healthy in the short term as well. If we fail to focus on the short term, it will be impossible to make a positive impact on the long term. The second dilemma comprises the decision on where to do business. There are underdeveloped countries where political instability or war make it hard to do business, and doing it could be detrimental to the business continuity of Atradius. However, supporting local business in instable countries to develop could aid the stabilization of economies. This is an opportunity to really contribute to a better way, by doing what we do best. However, taking decisions between difficult countries and contributing opportunity remains difficult. Atradius Communication on Progress 13 About this report Technically the scope and boundary of this report is limited to Atradius which includes the different lines of businesses in the different countries but excludes Crédito y Caución (CYC) activities. Business units include Credit Insurance, Bonding, Instalment Credit Protection (ICP) and Reinsurance. The data in this report refers to Atradius’s performance and not to that of our subcontractors, brokers or any other parties unless stated otherwise. All our material topics are included in the scope and boundaries of this report. All topics are related to the activities of Atradius as mentioned above, unless stated otherwise. Some topics involve our value chain and/or stakeholders. We focus on action that can be taken by Atradius itself, and not those of other actors. We also do not report on the activities of our acquisitions, before the first full year of ownership. These scope and boundaries are chosen in such a way that they meet the informational needs of our stakeholders. These reporting policies have been elaborated upon in more detail, yet their content has not changed based on last year. Credit insurance relates to commercial and/or political risk insurance whereby the customer is protected against non-payment of trade receivables due to insolvency or default. Bonding is the activity of providing guarantees that protect the beneficiary if the supplier fails to meet the agreed performance level. Bonding is also known as surety insurance. ICP is Atradius’ offering to financial and corporate policyholders in Belgium and Luxembourg, that protects against short and medium-term risks involved in multiple instalment credit agreements between private individuals and businesses (business-to-consumer). Reinsurance is a risk-sharing operation, whereby the insurer obtains cover from a third party (the reinsurer) for part of the credit risks that it has guaranteed, in exchange for the payment of a premium. In 2016, Atradius scored 116/200 points on the Dutch Transparency Benchmark. Atradius Communication on Progress 14 Our global footprint is indicated below: Do you have questions or need advice about CSR? Contact us at cr@atradius.com Atradius Communication on Progress 15 Appendix 1 – Atradius Environmental Policy Policy Statement Atradius offers a comprehensive range of credit management solutions that protect businesses of all sizes against the commercial and political risks inherent in domestic and global trade. Atradius recognises that our operations have an effect on the local, regional and global environment. Atradius N.V. is committed to a process of continuous improvement in environmental performance and pollution prevention. Environmental legislation will be regarded as setting the minimum standards of environmental performance. Environmental Goals Energy Use ▪ We will strive to conserve resources through efficient use and careful planning. ▪ We will seek to use environmentally safe and sustainable energy sources to meet our needs wherever practicable. We will plan to invest in improved energy efficiency. Recycling & Disposal of Waste ▪ We will minimize waste and whenever possible recycle materials. ▪ We will make every endeavour to dispose of all waste through safe and responsible methods. Transportation ▪ We strive to reduce the effect on the environment due to the work related transportation of our employees. ▪ We will promote a travel plan that encourages staff to use alternatives to single-occupancy car-use. Procurement ▪ We will seek to address our impact on the environment when procuring goods and services. ▪ We will work with our suppliers and contractors to encourage that they recognise and reduce the environmental impact of their products and transportation. Policy Management and Communication ▪ We will implement our policies through a coordinated environmental management system, guidelines and training where appropriate. ▪ We will continue setting environmental targets and action plans designed to improve our environmental performance. Atradius Communication on Progress 16 ▪ We will review and update as necessary this policy on an annual basis. As part of the review we will conduct an evaluation of our performance in implementing these principles and in complying with all applicable laws and regulations. ▪ This policy will be promoted to all employees and made publicly available. Atradius Communication on Progress 17 Appendix 2 – Terms and definitions Economic development & Good financial results to ensure a solid financial growth of emerging markets position and good creditworthiness in order to achieve our business goals (see Annual Report Atradius 2016 p. 32-42). Digitisation & 24/7 economy We ensure the accessibility and stability of our digital services in an increasingly digital society (see Annual Report Atradius 2016 p. 3 & 21). Regulation & legislation Promoting a culture of integrity in order to safeguard the company‘s reputation. Having policies and procedures in place that guide employees in their dealings with customers. Including fraud prevention, tax policies and corruption (see Annual Report Atradius 2016 p.94) Environmental How we avoid and reduce our impact on climate protection & sustainable change. We do this by substitution with lowersourcing carbon alternatives (such as buying renewable energy and using fuel-efficient vehicles), reducing our Greenhouse Gas Emissions wherever possible and decreasing our paper use and waste (see Annual Report Atradius 2016 p. 52) Demand of simplicity Communicating transparently with all of Atradius' and transparency in stakeholders. This includes our annual reporting, fair product and service marketing to customers and making sure our delivery customers are able to fully understand our products and services. Simple and transparent products lead to a good reputation and will increase customer loyalty (see Annual Report Atradius 2016 p. 14-16) Fraudulent claims & Reducing the amount of fraudulent claims and trustworthiness of increasing the amount of trust we have in our customers customers by building better relationship that are focused on the long term. Includes making sure Atradius Communication on Progress 18 insurance applicant do not provide wrong information when applying Customer loyalty & Thinking and working according to the wishes of a values. satisfied customer. Attention is given to engagement, marketing and customer service (see Annual Report Atradius 2016 p. 14-16) Cybercrime & protection Making sure all potentially sensitive data is stored of sensitive information and handled in a safe manner. Employee satisfaction & Guaranteeing a working environment where retention. Atradius engages with its employees in order to keep employees engaged and satisfied (see Annual Report Atradius 2016 p. 43-44) Relationship If and how we manage/influence our supply chain management with by setting minimum requirements covering topics partners and such as the responsible usage of Atradius assets, intermediaries data privacy, prevention of bribery/corruption, money laundering, terrorist financing, sanction breaches, respect for human rights and nondiscrimination, fair-labour practices and environmental protection (see Annual Report Atradius 2016 p. 47-50) Compliance and integrity Promoting a culture of integrity in order to management safeguard the company‘s reputation. Having policies and procedures in place that guide employees in their dealings with customers. Including fraud prevention, tax policies and corruption (See page 714 above) Corporate governance & Our system of rules, practices and processes by risk management which the organisation is directed and controlled. It is the system by which the organisation ensures accountability, fairness (also regarding laws and regulation) and transparency on taking an integrated approach to managing sustainability, in the relationship with its stakeholders, and their interests (see Annual Report Atradius 2016 p. 26-30 & 45-46) Atradius Communication on Progress 19 As a responsible global company, we aim to manage the ethical, environmental and social risks of the way we do business. That means that, while endeavouring to make a worthwhile contribution to successful world trade and to our customer's prosperity, we do so with a regard for the environment and for human rights, and act with absolute integrity towards our employees, customers, shareholders and indeed to all those with whom we interact. One way in which this commitment is manifested is through our affiliation to the UN Global Compact and to its principles on human rights, labour conditions, the environment and anti-corruption. Each year we report to the UN Global Compact on our continued commitment and the progress that we are making in all areas of corporate responsibility. While we have an environmental and social strategy that covers the whole Atradius group, this also gives freedom to our operations across the globe to follow their own CSR initiatives. As well as the annual progress report that we submit to the UN Global Compact, we also publish our environmental key performance indicators in our Annual Report. Our ambition for the future years is to keep progressing in line with our commitment to corporate responsibility, and continuously improve our performance. By 2019 our objective is to report externally on all UNGC principles through the GRI reporting system and have external auditor's reassurance of our CR reporting. What follows is a summary of the impact that our corporate responsibility activities have on our various stakeholders and on the environment. Atradius Communication on Progress 20 Our people We strive to improve our employees' satisfaction with the company and to raise our reputation within the labour market: effectively to be an employer of choice within our industry and in each region in which we operate. Through regular employee surveys, we seek to measure our employees' perception of the various aspects of their terms, conditions and quality of employment, to benchmark the results and wherever possible improve how we act as an employer. One example of how that manifests itself is our active strategy of internal engagement with our people to successively increase their knowledge level, attitude and behaviour. For instance, our people are involved and are encouraged to play an active part in realising our vision of sustainability. Our business principles and code of conduct support this engagement. Our customers As we look forward, we will strengthen our leadership in the multi-stakeholder debate i.e. understanding all of those stakeholders on whom, as a business, we have an impact and in meeting the sustainability challenges present in our industry. We will continue to be open and transparent in informing our stakeholders of the way that we conduct ourselves within our professional and financial environment and will undertake a regular reputation survey to assess our progress in this field. We convey and, wherever possible, demonstrate our corporate responsibility principles to our customers and engage with them to increase understanding of socially responsible business practices. Our suppliers We expect our suppliers to apply the same standards of ethical practice, diversity and environmental awareness that we set ourselves. In our purchasing, we seek to procure ethically sourced materials from our suppliers and, as a global corporation, we promote corporate responsibility throughout our entire supply chain, working towards the elimination of toxic substances, preventing pollution, promoting energy conservation and supporting human rights. Our communities Atradius is fully aware of the responsibility it has towards the communities in which it operates, and as a company we encourage our people to involve themselves in initiatives that benefit those communities: whether financial, personal or social. We encourage all our operating companies, wherever they are based, to be actively involved in their local community. Atradius Communication on Progress 21 Our environment We operate in a way that minimises our consumption of valuable and finite resources, simply because we believe that every business must be conscious of the impact they have on the environment. As a result, all our decisions take account of their lasting environmental effects. We have established internal environmental sustainability programmes in our operations worldwide, including energy saving, recycling, and a travel policy that minimises our environmental footprint. We have also put in place environmentally friendly ways to distribute products and services to our customers. Atradius' commitment to corporate responsibility is always evolving as we seek to improve our performance in every aspect of that responsibility as defined in the ten principles of the UN Global Compact, and through our own observations of how we can better serve our stakeholders, communities and the environment. On behalf of Atradius N.V., Isidoro Unda Chairman of the Management Board and Chief Executive Officer of Atradius Atradius Communication on Progress 22
