LEADING THE WAY Hyundai Elevator 2017 INTEGRATED SUSTAINABILITY REPORT About this report This report is an <Integrated Sustainability Report> prepared to report the annual performance of Hyundai Elevator (HDEL) to our investors and stakeholders. HDEL released its first sustainability report in 2016 and decided to publish an integrated sustainability report that contains an annual report, as of 2017. HDEL aimed to include our financial and non-financial performance, prospects and corporate activities for the value creation in this report. Compliance with International Guidelines This report is in compliance with the principles and contents of IR Framework provided by the International Integrated Reporting Council (IIRC) as well as in accordance with core requirements of GRI STANDARDS provided by Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). Scope and Boundary 'Hyundai Elevator (HDEL)' in this Report refers to Hyundai Elevator as an individual company subject to consolidation in accordance with K-IFRS, excluding its subsidiaries. Financial data used in this report is prepared on a consolidated basis and non-financial data on an individual basis. The geographic boundaries of the reporting are based on the Republic of Korea, where HDEL's Head Office and business sites are located and most of the revenue is generated. The reporting period covers January 1 to December 31 of 2016, and includes some significant activities from the first half of 2017. The reporting cycle is one year. The previous report published is Hyundai Elevator 2016 Sustainability Report published in 2016. External Auditor's Report and the Third Party Assurance This report contains estimates relating to HDEL's financial situation, operations, operating performances, and plans and objectives of its Management. The financial information contained in this report has undergone an external auditor's audit, and non-financial information and GHG emission data have been verified by a third party assurance body. Despite the assurance of a third party organization, the outlook and forecasts described in this report may differ from the actual results due to uncertainties of the management performances and the domestic and overseas market. contents Our Sustainable Who We Are 04 Where We Operate 06 Questions How We Performed 08 What We Offer 10 What We Achieved 20 How We Create Value 22 How We Sustain Value 24 Governance & CEO Letter 30 Governance 32 Leadership Ethical Management 34 Stakeholder Engagement System 38 Strategic Risk and Opportunity 42 Materiality Assessment Process and Result 44 Focus Issue 1: Improvement of Product Safety 46 Issue 2: Enhancement of Employee Competence and Welfare Benefits 50 Issue 3: Enhancement of Health and Safety at Workplace 54 Issue 4: Enhancement of Customer Satisfaction through Communication 58 Financial and Financial Statements 64 Financial MD&A 68 Non-Financial Statements Non-Financial MD&A 76 Audit Report 84 Third-party Assurance Statement 86 GHG Emissions Verification Statement 88 UNGC & SDGs INDEX 89 GRI STANDARDS INDEX 90 5 4 Hyundai Elevator SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 Our Sustainable Questions ▼ ▼ Who We Are Where We Operate 0 4 p~ 0 5 p 06p ~ 07p ▼ ▼ How We Performed What We Offer 0 8 p~ 0 9 p 10 p ~ 19 p ▼ ▼ What We Achieved How We Create Value 2 0 p~ 2 1 p 22 p ~ 23 p ▼ How We Sustain Value 24p~27p WHO We ARe COMPANY OVERVIEW Hyundai Elevator has continuously innovated to achieve values higher than what is expected from the elevator industry with high-end technology and design, smart operating systems, safety and environmental technology. Based on the high-end technology, HDEL has boasted excellence in elevators, escalators and other non-elevator products such as screen doors and parking systems. In particular, HDEL has maintained its position as the No. 1 elevator installer for ten consecutive years. HDEL will strive to be a global leader by sharing all created values with stakeholders. Name Hyundai Elevator Co., Ltd. Date of Establishment May 23, 1984 CEO Bob Jang Major Major Business Area Production, Sales and Maintenance of Shareholder elevators and non-elevator products Location of Headquarters 2091, Gyeongchung-daero, Bubal-eup, Icheon-si, Gyeonggi-do, Korea Number of Employees 2,106 (As of Dec 31, 2016) Number of Business Partners 285 (As of Jan, 2017) Major Shareholders and Affiliated Persons 26.1% Number of Deployed Elevators 134,205 units (No. 1 in Korea) Employee Stock Ownership Association 5.5% Market Share 41.3% Schindler Holding AG 17.1% Total Sales KRW 1.7588 trillion National Pension Service 11.5% Operating Income KRW 181.6 billion KB Asset Management 6.3% ※ 2016 Consolidated Basis Other Minor Shareholders 33.5% 4 Hyundai Elevator SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 5 1,758.8 Vision System In Feb. 2017, HDEL established its ‘Vision House’ consisting of three core values, behavioral norms, and a new slogan, based on its corporate Total Sales (unit: KRW in billion) philosophy of ‘Safety and Ethics.’ Its new slogan ‘Go Global’ conveys HDEL’s corporate policy to pursue sustainable growth in the global market as well as its strong will to rank as one of the Top 7 businesses in the global elevator market. 181.6 Operating Income (unit: KRW in billion) Slogan GO GLOBAL! Core Value Service Excellence Kindest customer Global Competence Globally Respect Talent Respect talents 41.3 Market Share (unit: %) service and Competitive cost and develop them Norm second-to-none and quality as the best customer response Philosophy SAFETY & ethics Business Areas • Moving Solutions Elevators, Escalators, Moving Walks • System Solutions Platform Screen Doors (PSD), Material Handling Systems, Auto Parking Systems (automobiles & bicycles), Auto-folding Canopy, Mechanical Gap Filler (Gap Zero), etc. • Services Elevator Maintenance Service, Parking Service Hyundai Elevator Head Office, Gyeonggi Province, Icheon Where We Operate Global Network With its head in Icheon and Seoul office, there are 12 other branch offices in Korea, and 7 overseas corporations and 54 overseas Agencies. Domestic Branches Head Office | Factories Icheon | Factory 1, 2, and 3, R&D Center, Customer Care Center Domestic Offices Seoul Office | Gyeonggi Branch Office | Busan Branch Office | Incheon Branch Office Daejeon Branch Office | Daegu Branch Office | Ulsan Branch Office Gangwon Branch Office | Jeonju Branch Office | Gwangju Branch Office Gyeongnam Branch Office | Jeju Branch Office Distribution Center Cheonan Distribution Center Overseas Branches Overseas Corporations  China | Brazil | USA | Malaysia | Vietnam | Indonesia | Turkey Overseas Agencies 11 in Asia | 14 in Middle East | 11 in North / South America 8 in Europe & CIS | 10 in Africa USA CUBA MEXICO DOMINICAN REPUBLIC Major Overseas Facilities GUATEMALA PANAMA VENEZUELA 6 COLOMBIA Hyundai Elevator SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 7 ECUADOR PERU BRAZIL Shanghai Hyundai Elevator Co., Ltd. Showroom CHILE Manufactures elevators and escalators ARGENTINA (size: 28,716m2) Elevator test tower (height: 72m) Gangwon Major Domestic Facilities Branch Office Seoul Office Incheon Head Office/ Branch Factories Office Gyeonggi Branch Office Cheonan Distribution Center Daejeon Daegu Branch Office Branch Office Jeonju Ulsan Branch Office Branch Office Gyeongnam Gwangju Branch Office Busan Icheon Head Office Seoul Office Hyundai Asan Tower Hyundai Customer Care Branch Office Branch Office Factory 1, 2, and 3, R&D Center Sales, service, planning A world-class elevator Center (CCC) (size: 46,484m2) and management test tower (205m) Offers real-time remote management service (HRTS: Hyundai Real Time Service) and Jeju Branch Office customer counseling RUSSIA POLAND MAKEDONIA MONGOLIA AZERBAIJAN KAZAKHSTAN ARMENIA TURKMENISTAN TURKEY SYRIA KYRGYZSTAN JAPAN TUNISIA ALGERIA LEBANON IRAQ IRAN KOREA LIBYA JORDAN SEOUL MOROCCO ISRAEL KUWAIT PAKISTAN BANGLADESH CHINA ICHEON EGYPT BAHRAIN UAE MYANMAR SAUDI ARABIA QATAR OMAN INDIA HONG KONG THAILAND VIETNAM SUDAN YEMEN PHILIPPINES CAMBODIA NIGERIA ETHIOPIA SRILANKA KENYA MALAYSIA INDONESIA SOUTH AFRICA How We Performed eCONOMIC PeRFORMANCe No. 1 Level A Domestic Elevator Korea Ratings Installation for 10 Credit Rating Consecutive Years (June 2017) No. 1 17,588 Market Share in Sales in 2016 Domestic Elevator (Unit: Hundred Maintenance for 2 Million in KRW) Consecutive Years 21.4 10.32 Increase in Sales Rate of Operating (Unit: %) Profits (Unit: %) 20,535 Number of Elevators Produced in 2016 (unit: elevator) 8 Hyundai Elevator SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 9 SOCIAL PeRFORMANCe eNVIRONMeNTAL PeRFORMANCe 188 11.3 11.7 14.1 Financial Support for Increase in Purchase Reduction Rate of Unit Reduction Rate of Unit Business Partners Amount by Business GHG Usage (Unit: %) Energy Consumption (Unit: Hundred Million Partners (Unit: %) (Unit: %) in KRW) 100 13.5 17.5 14.2 Payment (Cash or Cash Per Capita Hours for Reduction Rate of Reduction of Waste Equivalents) Made to Social Contribution Unit Water Usage (Unit: %) Partner Companies Activities (Unit: Hour) (Unit: %) (Unit: %) 7,149 0.04 100 5.2 Amount of Purchase by Accident Rate Recycling of Increase in Major Business Partners (Unit: %) By-products (Unit: %) Environmental (Unit: Hundred Million Investment (Unit: %) in KRW) Busan International Finance Center(BIFC) what we offer Hyundai Department Store, Pangyo Court House(Turkey) Incheon International Airport 10 현대엘리베이터 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 11 Hyundai Customer Care Center (HCCC) what we oFFer | THe eL / THe eL DUO ELEVATORS THe eL / THe eL DUO NeW YZeR SIGNATURe LUXeN INNOVeR SPECIAL PURPOSE ELEVATORs SeRVICe (MAINTeNANCe) eSCALATORS MOVING WALKS SYSTeM SOLUTIONS Auto Parking Systems Platform Screen Doors Material Handling SystemS Shinbundang Line Platform Screen Door what we oFFer | THe eL / THe eL DUO THe eL THE EL has everything that an ultra-high speed elevator should have. It boasts a highly-advanced technology and a system that gives its users world-class speed (1,080mpm) and a comfortable ride with a smart security control system combined with video/mobile call operations. The EL has obtained Class A in the elevator energy efficiency certification system in Germany and has successfully achieved energy-savings (77.5%) through power recycling. PRESTIGE TECHNOLOGY Ultra-high speed nine-phase synchronous motor THE EL is operated by nine-phase multi motors (three sets of three-phase synchronous motors), guaranteeing its seamless and safe operation even when a problem has occurred in some part. N.V.H (Noise, Vibration, Harshness) Technology The streamlined capsule structure and a vibration control system minimizes the air resistance and removes even minute noises and vibrations, providing the most comfortable ride to its users. Atmospheric pressure control system Pressure variation control system that functions according to the altitude minimizes ear noise, providing the users with a comfortable ride while using the elevator in skyscraper buildings. GREEN TECHNOLOGY 12 Class A elevator energy efficiency obtained in Germany for the first time in the world Hyundai Elevator SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 THE EL has been classified as Class A (VDI 4707 Part1) in the category of ultra-high speed VDI 4707 Part1 A class of the TÜV, German 13 elevators (600mpm) for the first time in the world, according to the German elevator energy efficiency class system. NET (New Excellent Technology) Energy recycling inverter Certification Power regenerating inverter THE EL has an energy recycling inverter, which reuses the energy that is generated during its operations, resulting in an increased energy efficiency of up to 77.5%. THE EL also features a leading green technology. It has no charging or braking resistance parts, so only a minimal amount of carbon emissions is generated. Ultra-light and ultra-slim green technology The permanent magnet in the synchronous motor of THE EL has an ultra-slim and lightweight design, resulting in reduced machine room construction costs. It also consumes 25% less energy when compared to induction motors. THe eL DUO (Advanced Double Deck System) THE EL DUO is a next-generation elevator where two elevator units are operated by one hoistway, providing enhanced space efficiency with a reduced number of hoistways (and an increased area of exclusive space), resulting in higher rental incomes and lower construction expenses. The elevators employ a Floor Distance Adjustable Device, which allows for its operation in buildings with different floor heights. ▶ 3 Modes of the Double Deck System Three modes including Exclusive, Core and Free mode allows lenient operation. ❶E  xclusive Mode Operation mode under which upper elevator car stops only at even number floors and lower elevator car stops only at odd number floors. ❷ Core Mode Operation mode under which both upper and lower elevator cars stop at a designated floor ❸ Free Mode Operation mode under which both upper and lower elevator cars stop at every floor except for ❶ ❷ ❸ the lowest floor for an upper elevator car and the highest floor for a lower elevator car SMART TECHNOLOGY IBS (Intelligent Building System) The IBS integrates the management systems of a building and information technologies to provide a variety of services for users through video/mobile call systems and IT security systems. Destination Floor Reservation System Under this system, the elevator with the most optimal status can be selected by users to serve them on the destination floor. This system reduces unnecessary waiting times for users of the platform and offers top-class operating efficiency. Artificial Intelligence-based Group Control System An artificial intelligence-based analysis of the elevator traffic volume allows the system to learn weekly traffic volumes and patterns. This enables optimal group management and the efficient operation of multiple elevators. Remote Monitoring System This system monitors the operation of elevators 24/7, while collecting and analyzing the elevator operation data even from remote places, helping to prevent malfunctions and accidents in advance. Three modes including Exclusive, Core and Free mode allows lenient operation. what we oFFer | NeW YZeR SIGNATURe / LUXeN / INNOVeR / Special Purpose Elevators ❹ ❶ ❸ ❷ ❶ Emerald Gold ❷ Topaz Bronze ❸ Garnet Burgundy ❹ Crystal Black NeW YZeR SIGNATURe YZER, the first elevator without mechanical room (MRL, machine room less) developed by Hyundai Elevator in 1999, has been reborn as NEW YZER, for new lifestyle and deeper consideration for humanity. New Yzer has employed horizontal space that enhances space efficiency and convenience in access, as well as a smart indicator system that provides various information in real time. All these features are packed in beautiful, comfortable, and sophisticated design concept. What New Yzer pursues to be is a high-tech and sophisticated elevator that communicates with humans. COMPACT Reduced construction costs and maximized space efficiency CARING Designed for the safety and health of users TIME SAVING Less time spent on its installation SMART Various smart technologies are employed EFFICIENCY Increased energy efficiency and easier maintenance work COLORED Four types of gemstones are combined ROUNDED Rounded design for the front and corners of the cage with different colors LUXeN Luxen is an economical and eco-friendly elevator unit boasting excellent operating efficiency. It provides excellent comfort and significant energy saving by using high efficiency gearless synchronous traction machine. For the first time among domestic lifts, Luxen and THE EL has acquired Class A in the elevator energy efficiency certification in Germany. In addition, it provides passengers a sense of stability 14 with its rounded corner design in which curves and Hyundai Elevator SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 15 straight lines exist in harmony. Luxen takes the spatial value of elevators to the next level by employing antiviral handrails and welcome system operation panels. Smart Indicator An LCD Indicator, applied for the first time in the world, provides various information. Anti-viral Handrails Anti-viral materials are used for the health and safety of passengers. Touch-less Foot Button A foot button is provided for the passenger to call for the elevator, providing enhanced convenience. IBS system(card key) Stronger security and an anti-crime function with the application of a card-key system. INNOVeR In Innover, a seamless and comfortable ride is guaranteed thanks to the reduced level of vibration and noise. The compact hoistway has maximized the spatial efficiency, and simpler installation structures had reduced the time spent in installation and construction. As such, Innover boasts excellent performance, enhanced efficiency, and remarkable durability. New materials optimized for durability and detailed design have been developed and applied to Innover. A high ceiling also provides passengers pleasant spatial experiences. GLAMOROUS Application of state-of-the-art new materials SPACIOUS Spacious design thanks to the greater ceiling height NATURAL Design that conveys the beauty and value of nature ❶ Mercury ❷ Venus ❸ Saturn ❹ Jupiter ❹ ❶ ❸ ❷ Special Purpose Elevators Freight & Automobile elevators Hospital Bed elevators Marine elevators Observation elevators Providing safe and convenient Designed for effective medical Providing the best quality Elevator with high-end mobility which is fit for the size services with comfortable ride elevators for various types of technology and design suitable and purpose of the building. and special functions for cruise ships, oil tankers, for hotels and observatory patient safety. container ships, etc. towers. what we oFFer | eSCALATORs / MOVING WALKs / SeRVICe eSCALATORs Hyundai Elevator's escalator seeks to maximize the use of architectural space through design that employs ergonomic curves and values harmony with the building. It is equipped with a variety of optional features for efficient maintenance and energy savings, including system inverters, transport capacity control systems and CRT monitoring panels, etc. In addition, a slip prevention step, foot slip minimization system, and other advanced safety devices provide higher stability and greater comfort. High Class Design Superior design in harmony with the design concept of the building Multiple Function Efficient maintenance and energy-saving technology Reliable Safety A highly reliable, safe and comfortable ride Performance Hyundai Department Store / Garden Five / Yeosu Expo / Seongnam City Hall Incheon International Airport / National Museum of Korea 16 Hyundai Elevator SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 17 MOVING WALKs The moving walk of Hyundai Elevator adopts a noise-free design and flexibly connects the horizontal and the slope parts, boasting an excellent and comfort ride. Our moving walk has been widely supplied to large-scale transportation facilities such as airports and subway stations, social welfare facilities, cultural sports facilities, and other commercial buildings, etc., and has been confirmed to secure high level of safety and reliability. Performance Incheon International Airport / Kintex / Airport Railroad / Shinbundang Line, etc. SeRVICe (MAINTeNANCe) Hyundai Customer Care Center (HCCC) Hyundai CCC is equipped with advanced facilities using the Geographic Information System for the first time in the domestic industry, so that it can reach the site as fast as possible. In addition, we impress customers through our professional consultants who promptly receive the breakdown reports and kindly consult customers for 24 hours a day, 365 days a year. Hyundai Real Time Service (HRTS) This system monitors an elevator’s operation in real time, remotely controls it and builds up prompt dispatch system in case of the elevator’s breakdown or confinement. By applying HRTS, we have shortened the process that starts with the detection of an elevator’s breakdown and ends with its recovery, so as to minimize the inconvenience of users and ensure customer safety. Remote Monitoring/Inspection/ Detection of Abnormal Sign by Control using Advanced Real-Time Monitoring & Automatic Equipment (Central Computer) Receipt ∙ Prompt dispatch in case of an ∙ Operation of a real-time remote elevator’s breakdown or confinement monitoring system for 365 days a year what we oFFer | SYSTeM SOLUTIONs AUTO PARKING SYSTeM 오토파킹시스템은 한정된 공간에 많은 차량을 안전하게 주차할 수 있어 공간 효율은 높이고 건축비는 절감할 수 있는 장점이 있습니 다. 현대엘리베이터는 맞춤형 시스템으로 입출고가 간편해 편리성을 제고하고, 주차 시간 단축으로 연료 및 CO2 배출량 감소까지 고려한 최 첨단 주차설비시스템을 제공함으로써 새로운 시장으로 사업영역을 확장해 나가고 있습니다. PSD (Platform Screen Doors) Platform Screen Door (PSD) is a safety door system that separates railroad and platform, while blocking wind, noise, and dust caused by rail motors. By enhancing airconditioning efficiency, it also achieves significant energy saving. Hyundai Elevator has entered into the PSD business for the first time in Korea and has secured the top rank in the domestic PSD market share since, with its abundant know-how and technical prowess in extensive f i e ld s ra n g i n g f ro m d e s i g n , co n st r u c t i o n , a n d maintenance, high quality management system with 18 passenger safety as the top priority, and excellent design Hyundai Elevator SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 and quality products and services. 19 AUTO PARKING SYSTeMs Hyundai Elevator's Auto parking systems enable parking of many vehicles safely in limited space, which can increase space efficiency and reduce construction cost. Hyundai Elevator is expanding its business into a new market by providing a state-of-the-art and customized auto parking systems that provide convenient access of vehicles and less parking time, resulting in reduced fuel usage and CO 2 emissions. Material Handling Systems As a comprehensive logistics company, Hyundai Elevator provides Total Engineering Solution from refrigeration, logistics, petrochemicals, pharmaceuticals, foods, processing and airport logistics system. Moreover, consulting, design, production, installation and maintenance are all part of the work that Hyundai Elevator is in charge of. Our main facilities include the Stacker Crane for automated storage, RTV for ground level movement, Sky Rav for overhead guided vehicles as well as the AGV, LGV and the Sorting System. what we ACHIeVeD Major Domestic PerformanceS 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8    9 20 Hyundai Elevator SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 21 1 Busan International Finance Center(BIFC) | Installed 46 elevators including the fastest elevator in Korea (600m/min) 2 Park Hyatt Busan | Installed 7 elevators including ultra high-speed elevator (240m/min) 3 KEPCO Head Office(Naju) | Installed 23 elevators including ultra high-speed elevator (300m/min) 4 LG U+ Yongsan Office Building | Installed 8 elevators including the first Double Deck elevator (240m/min) 5 Cheongna Prugio | Installed 18 elevators including ultra high-speed elevator (240m/min) 6 Songdo G Tower | Installed 18 elevators including ultra high-speed elevator (360m/min) 7 Yongsan Hotel | Total of 43 elevators to be installed including ultra high-speed elevators (240m/min) 8 D-Cube City | Installed 28 elevators including ultra high-speed elevator (210m/min) 9 Daishin Securities | Installed 19 elevators including ultra high-speed elevator (240m/min)  Hyundai Department Store Pangyo | Installed 116 units including high-speed elevators (120m/min) and escalators  El Tower | Auto Parking System, Cart type  Incheon International Airport Transportation Center | Installed 95 units including low-speed elevators (60m/min) and escalators Major Overseas PerformanceS 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9   1 Centro Simon Boliver(Venezuela) | Installed 17 elevators including ultra high-speed elevator (480m/min) 2 Hanoi Landmark Tower(Vietnam) | Installed 29 elevators including ultra high-speed elevator (240m/min) 3 Lerthai Center(China) | Installed 10 elevators including ultra high-speed elevator (including 360m/min) 4 Panama Revolution Tower(Panama) | Installed 5 elevators including ultra high-speed elevator (240m/min) 5 Varyap Meridian Hotel(Turkey) | Installed 10 elevators including ultra high-speed elevator (240m/min) 6 Court House(Turkey) | Installed 121 elevators including high-speed elevator (105m/min) 7 Genting Highlands (Malaysia) | A total of 103 elevators, including ultra-high-speed elevator units (300m/min) to be installed 8 St. Moritz(Indonesia) | Installed 20 elevators including ultra high-speed elevator (240m/min) 9 Hilton Hotel(Panama) | Installed 30 elevators including ultra high-speed elevator (240m/min)  Security Forces Medical City(Saudi Arabia) | A total of 308 units, including high-speed elevators (120m/min) and escalators to be installed  Metropol Istanbul(Turkey) | Installed 119 elevators including ultra high-speed elevator (360m/min) HOW We CReATe VALUe INPUTS VALUE DRIVERS VALUE CREATION FINANCIAL As listed in the Korea Stock Exchange, SUSTAINABILITY HDEL is doing its business based on financial capital provided by shareholders and investors. We are striving to maximize our shareholders' value through dividends and other shareholder return systems. HUMAN CAPITAL Human Resource is an important core value for achieving our business goals, and employee competencies, including R&D capability and sales force, and we are striving to sustain such competencies. SERVICE PRODUCTS Hyundai Elevator is strengthening its AND SERVICES competitiveness as a global elevator and logistics automation equipment powerhouse by developing new products with enhanced performance and efficiency, and building a competitive and differentiated product portfolio. 22 Hyundai Elevator SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 EXTERNAL 23 We use raw materials such as steel plate RELATIONSHIPS and shaped steel for parts production, and we also use electricity and gas to operate our business units. In addition, we continue to promote shared value creating activities for cooperative relations with our business partners, local communities, and other stakeholders. Financial Human Intellectual Manufactured Natural Social & Relationship Capital Capital Capital Capital Capital Capital Hyundai Elevator is conducting our business activities considering financial and non-financial values, While providing positive changes and direct and indirect values to our stakeholders in organizations, society and the environment. ACTIVITIES OUTCOMES Sales KRW 1,758.8 billion Operating Profits KRW 181.6 billion Market Share 41.3 % FINANCIAL VALUE Number of Employment 2,106 employees Per capital Training Hours 69.5 hours Number of Elevator Units Produced SUSTAINABILITY VALUE 20,535 units (2016) Number of Business Networks (Domestic and Overseas) Over 80 units Customer Satisfaction 93.3 point CP Grade AA Patent 17 Waste Disposal 309.9 ton Design 18 ※As of 2016 to mid 2017 Energy Savings 80,496 kWh/year The total value distributed to our stakeholders including shareholders, investors, employees, and partners in 2016 is KRW 994.493 billion (Unit: KRW in million) Shareholders and Investors 종로 5가 종로 3가 47,297 Government Number of Employees 3,876 228,350 VALUE Local Community Business Partners DISTRIBUTED 85 714,885 How We Sustain Value SPeCIAL FeATUReS 1 – GO GLOBAL! Aiming to be one of the Top 7 elevator businesses in the world by 2020 Hyundai Elevator has established a growth strategy to rank in the seventh place in the global elevator industry by 2020. We plan to increase our overseas elevator sales by KRW 300bn to KRW 840bn by 2020, increasing the proportion of overseas business to 38% of the activeness and accessibility, we have selected 10 potential countries including India and Saudi Arabia as the Next Home Market and plan to establish new overseas subsidiaries. In addition, in order to stabilize overseas subsidiaries as early as possible, we will establish a market entry strategy and integrated computerized management system, and operate resident employee candidate training programs. Global Vision Declaration Ceremony (Apr. 19, 2016) Globalization Strategy of Hyundai Elevator Vision Make a leap forward as a global Top 7 elevator company (Increase overseas elevator sales to KRW 840bn by 2020) Where to Play Market Selection Entrance Market Barrier We need to penetrate the overseas market n order to secure the Attractiveness (Local driving force for sustainable growth. We will pursue the global top Competitiveness) 7 by establishing efficient operating system and strengthening product competitiveness. Globalization Vision Declaration Ceremony, Bob Jang, CEO of Hyundai ElevatorHow to Win Selecting the Entrance Model Glocalization Development and The globalization that Hyundai Elevator pursues is to make a leap Establishment Training implementation of forward as a leading group in the overseas countries through of an efficient employees to the GTM operating dispatch localization based on our global strategy and operating system. (Go-to-Market) system Framework 24 Hyundai Elevator SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 Glocalization 25 Hyundai Elevator has aggressively advanced into overseas markets since 2010, but now, we are facing the oversupply in global market, the oligopoly of the leading group and the chase of Chinese competitors. Against this backdrop, Hyundai Elevator found that this is time of urgency to raise our competitiveness in the global Globalization + Localization market and to pursue the leading group as fast as we can. We have first established a globalization strategy for overseas markets so as to secure driving force for sustainable growth. For globalization strategy for elevator sector, we prioritize the selection of focus THINK GLOBAL! ACT LOCAL! countries to which we will enter by 2020 and establish the driving force and competencies required in the process. HDEL’s 2016 Glocalization Hyundai Elevator has progressively implemented its globalization strategy with the motto 'Think Global, Act Local' in 2016. Hyundai Elevator pursues to be a global leader as a company representing Korea's elevator solution industry based on its world-class technology and the abundant experiences gained both at home and abroad. Now, you can meet our products in a number of landmarks in major cities across the globe. Go Global! Establishment of Turkish Corporation (July 20, 2016) In its effort to become the Global Top 7 elevator solution business In July 2016, Hyundai by 2020, Hyundai Elevator established its vision slogan Go Global , Elevator established a and set three core values that will serve as cornerstone of its future Turkish corporation in growth as follows: Istanbul via a joint venture with HMF Asansor which is an affiliate company of • Service Excellence : Kindest customer service and STFA, the most represensecond-to-none customer response tative corporation in the • Global Competence : Globally competitive cost and quality Turkish construction and • Respect Talent : Respect talents and develop them as the best energy industries. In January of 2017, we have further expanded our sales network by establishing additional branches in Izmir (the third-largest city). By the end of 2017, we will secure seven dealers to strengthen our sales targeting mid-sized and local customers. Turkey has a market size of 30,000 units per year (approx. KRW 1 trillion), and is meaningful as a bridgehead to open up the European market thanks to its geographical characteristic Establishment of the Globalization Promotion connecting Europe and Asia. Hyundai Elevator will continuously Department strive to make Turkey its second home market and expand its portion in the European market. In 2016, Hyundai Elevator newly established the CSO division and the Globalization Promotion Department, with the purpose of pursuing the vision of Globalization. The Globalization Promotion Department will select potential countries as 'Next Home Participated in 'Shanghai WEE Expo 2016’ Markets' and develop strategies accordingly, as well as transfer (May 10 ~ 13, 2016) competencies at home to promote a profitable growth. Based Hyundai Elevator participated in 'Shanghai WEE Expo 2016', on such strategies, Hyundai Elevator will endorse localization to the world's largest elevator exhibition held in Shanghai, China. become the market leader in the country. The event was held at the Shanghai National Exhibition Center. The event was held for four days, and attended by over 120,000 visitors, with 1,050 businesses in elevator and part manufacturing KRW 316.9 billion companies from more than 50 countries participating, demonstrating keen interests towards the elevator industry. Through participation in exhibitions, Hyundai Elevator has secured In 2016 overseas sales resulted in KRW 316.9 billion. Going various achievements; it obtained the bidding qualification for forward, we plan to strengthen our position in the global market Chinese state-run organizations and scored spec-in status for new by increasing overseas sales and ratio based on our robust domestic sites. globalization strategy. 23.9 23.0 18.0 Overseas sales 3,360 (Unit: KRW in 100 million) 17.2 3,169 3,121 Ratio of overseas sales (Unit: %) 1,848 2013 2014 2015 2016 How We Sustain Value SPeCIAL FeATUReS 2 – Value Creation through Technological Innovation HDEL's R&D efforts for the world's best product and system solutions Hyundai Elevator is promoting technological innovation for the world's No. 1 products and systems. In order to provide more convenient and safer mobility to the world, Hyundai Elevator is vigorously investing in R&D and continuously developing new technologies. As a result, Hyundai Elevator successfully secured 17 patents and 18 design rights in between 2016 to mid 2017. . Three Key Technical Innovation To Become The World's Best Hyundai Elevator will expand its market share in overseas markets based on its three key technical Innovations. I had a vigorous discussion with Hyundai Elevator about its R&D efforts and directions. At that time, I could tell a strong commitment of Hyundai Elevator to the technological development for its businesses.” ‌Professor Jung-Pyo Hong | Department of Automotive Engineering, Hanyang University 1 st 2 nd 3 rd Development of Perfecting product Differentiation of the products for the implementation products with new global market with technological and advanced features advancements HDEL is increasing research and development In order to ensure the reliability of the product, Hyundai Elevator's technological capabilities with a focus on global markets as targets. stable quality and minimal failure rate should are evolving in order to catch up with the trend be secured first. of new products emerging and evolving rapidly. Local research has been adopted in China With this in mind, Hyundai Elevator has built The IoT (Internet of Things) is the most repre26 Branch for the first time. For this local research database to share and disseminate quality issues sentative case in point of such technological Hyundai Elevator SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 project, HDEL has provided technical training on existing products with related departments trend. Against this backdrop, Hyundai Elevator 27 program for local engineers and deployed so as to formulate proper countermeasures and is actively collaborating IoT technology talented Korean engineers to China Branch, reflect them in development process. Technology with elevator technology in various ways. seeking to secure independence and stability of implementation requires the diverse capabilities Examples include IoT-based smart building the products made in China. In addition to that, of many researchers. Hyundai Elevator is mobile solution technology and smart remote HDEL strives to ensure that its products meet enhancing the competence of its researchers maintenance system development. In addition, customer's needs under any circumstances, by inviting external experts in various fields, Hyundai Elevator is introducing various by establishing an effective response system providing the researchers opportunities for convergence technology employing sensor, to respond to overseas orders in a swift and professional training programs and seminars voice and images to its elevator solutions to seamless manner. We believe this is a good both at home and abroad. Furthermore, Hyundai enhance convenience and safety of elevators. opportunity to increase our market share in Elevator intends to achieve perfect technology This technological innovation of Hyundai overseas markets by attracting more overseas through continuous exchange with domestic and Elevator will be the cornerstone for its future customers. foreign schools and research institutes. businesses. HDEL's Technological Innovation With the purpose of R&D for developing the world-class product and systems, Hyundai Elevator is making technological innovations every day, creating values in diverse areas to build the best possible products for our customers. H.I.L.S(Hardware In the Loop Simulation) Two-way Video Call H.I.L.S is a technique that can combine system model Hyundai Elevator uses two-way video calling technology to ensure the (numerical analysis model) with actual H / W model safety of passengers. Two-way video calls enable HD-grade video calls (developed product) to perform real time verification between the elevator room and a call center as well as the emergency on the performance of the product or controller. room (Control room). Also, full HD video call technology is currently under Hyundai H.I.L.S is used in many industrial research developing. With this technology, it is possible to elaborately identify a fields such as aviation, railway, automobiles, and trapped accident and to cope with it quickly. It has also become easier to defense industry. We apply H.I.L.S technique to prevent the secondary damage in case of an emergency. development process for products related to riding quality (Roller Guide Shoe, Spring, Isolation Pad, Active Roller Guide Shoe, etc.) to evaluate the performance and select design parameters. For Active Roller Guide Shoe, in particular, stability and performance of the product (H/W) and controller (S/W) need to be verified simultaneously. In this case, H.I.L.S helps develop a product specifically optimized for such requirements. Advanced Double Deck System Hyundai Elevator's height variable double deck system is a safe and efficient system that allows maximum use of resources on one hoistway. The transportation speed between the two decks can differ up to 20m/min, IoT Technology and using high precision sensors and dual CPU system control technology, it is safer than ever. Hyundai Elevator applies loT technology to various fields such as surveillance, mobility, security, safety and maintenance systems. Multiple Surveillance Smart Customized and Image-link System Moving Solution Multiple surveillance system Minimizing standby time, made possible through the maximizing operation use of network to enhance efficiency, fulfilling Ultra High Speed Inverter surveillance and energy reduction credibility. Demand for ultra high-speed elevators is on the constant rise as highrise buildings continue to grow. Against this backdrop, Hyundai Elevator IoT has adopted an ultra high-speed inverter to secure higher system stability Technology and reliability. By operating two inverters in parallel, we eliminate the power imbalance and secure a back-up inverter for an emergency; in this way, seamless elevator operation can be guaranteed even when one Smart Security/ Remote of the two inverters has broken Prevention System Maintenance System down. Hyundai Elevator's ultraLive feed linked to smart devices for Enhancing the credibility of high-speed inverter technology efficient operation of security and safety in elevator operation is the technology that promotes prevention systems for residents and and extending life cycle safety, convenience and the green elevator users. environment at once. 29 28 Hyundai Elevator SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 SERVICE Governance & Leadership ▼ ▼ CEO LETTER Governance 3 0 p~ 3 1 p 32p~33p ▼ ▼ Stakeholder Ethical Management Engagement System 3 4 p~ 3 7 p 38p~39p Governance & Leadership CeO Letter “Go Global! Global Hyundai! ” 30 Hyundai Elevator SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 31 Hyundai Elevator will secure sustainability as a global leader in the world. CEO Letter Governance Ethical Management Stakeholder Engagement System Dear stakeholders, I would like to express my sincere gratitude for your continued support to Hyundai Elevator. Hyundai Elevator has published a Sustainability Report from 2016 to communicate with our stakeholders. The 2017 Report contains our efforts to communicate with stakeholders as well as economic, environmental, and social activities and achievements for the year. This year, we have introduced unique elements to the Report to avoid unnecessary formality and simple quantification but to more effectively communicate with our stakeholders so that we can deliver our sustainability management activities and achievements in a more friendly manner. Monumental business performance despite fierce global competition Recently, domestic and overseas competitions have been intensified due to the oversupply in the global market, the oligopoly of the leading group, the chase of Chinese competitors and the intensified competition of domestic market. Amidst such an unfavorable environment, however, Hyundai Elevator achieved remarkable sales of KRW 1,758.8 billion and operating income of KRW 181.6 billion in 2016, which were the highest performance ever achieved since its inception. In addition, we posted a monumental achievement of 2,000 units produced per month, annual output of 20,000 units, and a cumulative output of 200,000 units. The number of elevators managed in a paid system also surpassed 120,000, marking the first place in the domestic market for two consecutive years to achieve both financial and qualitative growth. Sustainable growth with winning management Hyundai Elevator seeks to win in the age of the 4th industrial revolution and uncertain global environment with innovation. First, we will expand our portion of overseas sales by focusing on focus markets and tapping into new markets, and lay the foundation for success in Next Home Market. Second, we will further strengthen our dominance in the domestic market by cutting costs, improving quality, developing differentiated new products, and expanding maintenance sector. Last but not least, we will secure a competitive advantage by fostering global talent with global R&D competencies. Taking a leap forward to become a global leader by accomplishing Vision 2020 Hyundai Elevator’s globalization slogan is ‘GO GLOBAL’. In order to achieve sustainability with customers around the world, Hyundai Elevator will lead globalization and achieve sustainability with the three core values: Service Excellence, Global Competence and Respect Talent. Additionally, based on the firm domestic market leadership we will continue to share sustainable values with customers and become one of the global top 7 companies by 2020. Going forward, Hyundai Elevator will comply with the ten principles of the UNGC, act as a global corporate citizen, and strive to create sustainable value for all. We will also share our achievement with stakeholders and prepare for a sustainable future. Thank you. July, 2017 Bob Jang, CEO of Hyundai Elevator Governance & Leadership Governance Composition Board of Directors Hyundai Elevator Board of Director (BOD) is the premier decision-making body that deliberates and resolves the overall management policies and major issues for enhancing corporate value and bringing the best possible benefits to its stakeholders through transparent management practices. BOD consists of seven directors, including three internal directors, three outside directors, and one non-executive director. In order to ensure efficient decision-making process, the BOD operates Audit Committee, the Outside Director Candidate Recommendation Committee, and Personnel Management Committee under the Board. Currently, the internal director is the chairperson of the BOD. However, an outside director can also be the chair of the board as prescribed in the BOD Regulations. Hyundai Elevator Board of Directors (March, 2017) Date of Status Position Appointment Jeong-Eun Chairperson of Hyundai Group, Chairperson of Hyundai Elevator BOD, Mar. 30, 2004 Hyun (F) Vice Chairperson of Seoul Chamber of Commerce and Industry Internal Bob Jang CEO of Hyundai Elevator, Former CEO of Otis Elevator Mar. 18, 2016 Director (M) Ki-Seon CFO of Hyundai Elevator, Former Deputy Managing Director Mar. 27, 2015 Kwon (M) of Hyundai Group, Strategic Planning Division Former Assistant Planning Director at the Office for Government Policy Jong-Sang Coordination, Chair of the Audit Committee, Former Visiting Professor at Mar. 18, 2016 Yu (M) Myongji University, Department of Public Administration Outside Dong-Beom Managing Director at Yieum Private Equity, Former Managing Director at Director Mar. 18, 2016 Seo (M) Kamur Investment Partners, PE Division Yu-Jong Former Business Sales Director for Gangnam at Woori Bank, Mar. 24, 2017 Kim (M) Former Auditor at Woori FIS Other Ho-Jin Executive Managing Director at Hyundai Group Strategic Planning Division, Non-executive Mar. 28, 2014 Kim (M) Former Executive Managing Director at Daewoo Securities IB Division Director Independence Hyundai Elevator specified that more than 25% of the total number of board members be composed of outside directors. Currently, three outside directors are appointed to check management and support objective decision-making within the company. Outside directors participate in all committees under the Board of Directors to ensure independence and transparency of decision-making process. In particular, the Audit Committee may request reports on operations or investigate the state of the company’s assets when necessary. In addition, the Committee may require employees or external auditors to attend committee meetings, or may be consulted by a specialist at the expense of the Company. Transparency and Expertise in Board Appointment Internal and outside directors are appointed at the general shareholders’ meeting after the recommendations by the BOD and the External Director Recommendation Committee. The whole director recommendation process is free of discriminatory consideration. Outside directors are 32 composed of experts in various fields to ensure professionalism and diversity in our decision-making Hyundai Elevator SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 process. Now there are one academic expert, one accounting specialist, and one financial expert so that 33 the BOD secures diversity in its members’ occupation group. Division Member Activity Jong-Sang Yu, •Matters regarding the general shareholders meeting Audit Dong-Beom Seo, •Matters regarding the directors and BOD Committee Yu-Jong Kim •Matters regarding audits Jong-Sang Yu, Outside Director Dong-Beom Seo, •Recommendation, evaluation and selection of candidates for external directors Recommendation Yu-Jong Kim, who are to be appointed by the general shareholders meeting Committee Bob Jang, Ki-Seon Kwon •Appointment, dismissal and promotion of executives Jong-Sang Yu, Personnel •Matters regarding the compensation of executives including remunerations and bonuses Yu-Jong Kim, Management •Employment conditions and incentive system for executives Bob Jang, Committee •Granting of stock options and their quantity Ki-Seon Kwon •Changing and installing key HR systems CEO Letter Governance Ethical Management Stakeholder Engagement System Operation and Activities Operation Hyundai Elevator decides on the main agenda at the BOD and reflects various opinions gathered in shareholders’ meetings and Investor Relations (IR) meetings in the decision-making process. All directors may, by law, participate in resolutions by means of telecommunications, which can also be counted as attendance. The formation and resolution of the BOD shall be determined when majority of BOD Operation the members present and the majority of the present members approve the matter. An extraordinary No. of BOD Meetings board meeting may be held if found necessary, and voting right of directors who have conflict of interest No. of Issues as well as proxy voting are limited. A total of 17 board meetings were held in 2016, with an attendance Attendance Rate (Unit: %) rate of 83.6%, and the number of cases proposed and handled in the 2016 BOD meetings were 30. 85.0 84.0 83.6 Evaluation and Compensation 30 30 Hyundai Elevator periodically evaluates the role and responsibilities of the BOD. In accordance with Article 388 of the Commercial Act and the Articles of Incorporation, the remuneration ceiling of the 18 17 directors is determined as a resolution of the general shareholders meeting. We set remuneration for 11 the directors in a fair and transparent way in accordance with the regulations, considering results of 9 performance evaluation of each BOD member. 2014 2015 2016 Communication with Stakeholders To establish trust with stakeholders, the BOD communicates with various stakeholders through internal and external communication channels including corporate disclosure, shareholders’ meetings, and IR. In addition, key business decisions are promptly disclosed to shareholders and stakeholders. Evaluation and compensation for the executives are conducted and provided based on executive Evaluation and compensation payment criteria. Executives are payed basic bonuses (sales and operating profits, growth Compensation for rates-based) and over-profit bonuses (operating profit surplus and increase) that are paid to all employees, based on their position allowance and performance evaluation. Executives are subject to Executives assessments that include non-financial factors such as personnel, safety, and the environment, depending on the position and duties. The Sustainability Management Committee, the chief decision-making body for sustainability Sustainability management, is chaired by the CHO and composed of head directors of each business divisions. The Management System Committee sets up sustainable management strategies, identifies the risks and opportunities associated with them, and reviews sustainability management activities, action items, and implementation planning. The Committee covers sustainability management issues in a wide-ranging area, including sustainability management in general, human rights, labor, compliance, mutual growth, social contribution, environment, safety, technology and products. The Sustainability Management Working Group, composed of the working-level members of each business unit, establishes improvement tasks and plans, and Employee Remuneration reports to the Committee half-yearly about their achievements and the next steps. Sustainability Average Employees Remuneration management plans and achievements are reviewed and approved by the Sustainability Management (Unit: Million in KRW) CEO Remuneration (Unit: Million in KRW) Committee and published as sustainability reports. Ratio (Unit: Times) 26. 1 13.7 7.7 1,827* CEO 1,069 Sustainability Management Committee | Chair CHO 565 78 73 70 Korea Material Ethical Global Global Service ManuQuality H-1 Elevator Handling ManageSales Sales Business facturing Safety cto cho cFo cso Innovation Business System ment 2014 2015 2016 Unit 1 Unit 2 Division Division Division Division Division Division Division *Including the retirement income for the former CEO upon his retirement in March 2016 (564 Million KRW) Governance & Leadership Ethical Management Ethical Management System Ethical Management As the anti-corruption laws and regulations of government and supervisory organizations are tightened globally, the social needs for business ethics and ethical management are rising as well. With the establishment of the Ethics Management Department in 2007 and reshuffle in 2012, Hyundai Elevator has steadily strengthened diagnostic functions for its business activities. The Ethics Management Department inspects, evaluates, and improves compliance with regulations and instructions regarding overall business activities in Hyundai Elevator. It is also engaged in various other ethical management activities, providing relevant training to employees and serving as a channel for extensive information on ethical management. Based on ‘Ethics’, the core philosophy in Hyundai Elevator’s vision, ‘Go Global!’, Hyundai Elevator focuses on securing transparency, propriety, and accountability in business, while promoting a culture of fair trade and ethical awareness among its employees. Regular Conducted on a regular basis in Internal Audit Audit accordance with the Audit plan Internal audit is divided into regular, special and confirmatory audits. In 2016, we conducted a total of Conducted upon CEO’s approval nine internal audits, including one regular audit, seven special audits, and one confirmatory audit. Three Special when there is a special direction out of nine cases were related to overseas branches, as Hyundai Elevator are increasing the proportion Audit from CEO or it is found of audit programs for overseas branches, including the establishment of regular inspection system and necessary to conduct an audit. the reinforcement of education on cases to prevent the recurrence of the same case, in line with our Conducted when it is needed to vision of ‘Go Global!’ Confirmcheck whether proper actions atory are taken by applicable Audit department for the issues found in regular and/or special audit Establishment of Continuous Monitoring System and Fraud Preventive Management System Hyundai Elevator operates a continuous monitoring and fraud preventive management system for efficient internal control. Continuous monitoring Continuous monitoring is applied to sites with long-term service vacant and approval process of billcollection in sales division in order to promote integrity in order management and efficiency in bill collection. Fraud prevention system Cyber Report Center’s Process With the rising demands for fraud risk management and response mechanism to properly cope with any potential risks, Hyundai Elevator is developing multiple fraud-related scenarios. For more efficient Receipt of Complaint/ continuous monitoring, it has also developed preemptive fraud prevention system and applied it to a wide Report at Domestic Office range of areas in its business. This preemptive fraud prevention system is designed to monitor potential frauds and risks that can occur in diverse fields (including domestic sales, overseas sales, installation, Simple Complaint Valid Report service, purchase, logistics, and quality control, etc.) on a continuous basis with a detailed and specific 34 checklist for such potential risk factors. Based on the checklist, key issues are being monitored and Hyundai Elevator SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 (On-site complaint, (Malpractices, request for unfair trade, and 35 after-sales service) corruption, etc.) inspected monthly, so as to encourage the law-abiding spirit in all of its employees. Transferred to Relevant Report to CEO Extended Operation of Cyber Report Center Department Hyundai Elevator is operating Cyber Report Center both for domestic and overseas branches so that unethical practices can be filed at anytime anywhere. The complaints received for domestic business units are handled after being classified into simple complaint (on-site complaints, request for after-sale Receipt Conduct of of Results Special service, etc) and valid report (malpractice, unfair trade, corruption, etc.). The valid reports received at of Action Audit overseas branch office are handled in cooperation with the Ethical Management Dept. and the personnel in charge at the applicable branch. Starting with an opening of Cyber Report Center in China branch in Jul, 2015, Hyundai Elevator has established the Centers in Brazil, Malaysia, Indonesia, and Vietnam in Notification of Results of Action Aug, 2016, and expanded the operation of the Center into the Turkish branch in June 2017. CEO Letter Governance Ethical Management Stakeholder Engagement System Culture of Ethical Management Practice In order to settle ethical corporate culture and ethical mindset in employees, Hyundai Elevator has published and distributed ‘Ethical Regulation Handbook’, ‘Ethical Management Self-check Card’, and ‘Ethical Management Casebook’, as well as conducted surveys on ethical management and practices. Moreover, it provides ethical management training programs for newly appointed heads of department or branch, based on the ‘Ethical Management Casebook.’ Ethical Regulation Handbook Ethical Practice Handbook is available in four languages (Korean, English, Chinese, and Portuguese) on the corporate website to raise ethical mindset in employees working in domestic and overseas business units. Ethical Management Self-Check Card Hyundai Elevator distributed ‘Ethical Management Self-check Card’ to all of its employees in 2014 to help them check and practice ethical management. This Self-check Card has five items for quick self-check, can be attached to a desk, computer, or the back of the employee ID card so that they can always refer to it when necessary. Ethical Management Casebook Hyundai Elevator updates the results of its audit and reports that are related to unethical practices each month, and provides newly appointed head of department or branch education on ethical management violation cases. In 2016, it added illustration to the existing Casebook so that users can better understand and be more interested in the content. This Casebook was distributed to each department and our business partners. Survey on Ethical Management Practice Hyundai Elevator has conducted ‘Ethical Management Practice Survey’ since 2015 to identify the awareness of its employees on ethical management. The survey is conducted once a year on all HDEL employees; the survey items include job attitude, level of ethical consciousness, misuse of position and illegal request and graft. The 2016 survey results showed that the ethical consciousness point was 82.8, increased by 6.2 point year-on-year. Performance of Ethical Management Promoting Plan Division 2014 2015 2016 No. of Audit 15 14 9 Complaints/Reports Receipt 57 39 38 Received at Cyber Report Center Action Taken (%) 100 100 100 Certification of Contents Receipt 119 62 55 and Complaints (Domestic) Action Taken (%) 100 100 100 Ethical Consciousness (Points) 76.6 82.8 Ethical Regulation Handbook Ethical Management Self-Check Card Ethical Management Casebook Governance & Leadership Respect of Human Rights Business with Hyundai Elevator is promoting human rights-based management to prevent risks related to human Human Rights rights issues and to instill a culture of respect for human rights throughout the company. It has joined the UN Global Compact in 2015, and supported its ten principles. Since then, Hyundai Elevator has strictly complied with the principle of prohibition of child labor and forced labor, and followed the domestic laws and regulations of International Labor Organization (ILO) and other human rights organizations. All employees are provided with education on prevention of sexual harassment and discrimination. Anyone can report complaints related to human rights or discriminatory practices via Cyber Report Center. All reports/complaints received are handled in a swift manner, and the identification of the informant is strictly kept confidential. Sexual Harassment Prevention Education (Unit: Person, Hour) Division 2014 2015 2016 No. of Sexual Harassment Prevention Education Participants No. of Participants (On/Offline) 1,559 (361/1,198) 1,690 (795/895) 1,925 (total on-line) (Unit: Person) No. of Program Hours 1,559 2,409 3,850 Online 1,925 Offline No. of Hours Per Person 1 1.4 2 1,925 1,690 1,559 1,198 895 Anti-discrimination and Promoting Diversity All employees of Hyundai Elevator are not unreasonably discriminated on the grounds of gender, race, religion, place of origin, disability, marital status, etc., and everyone is granted with an equal opportunity at work. The results of the multifaceted evaluation are used as effective basic data for organizational 795 restructuring, promotion and the selection of managers, and no discrimination occurred during the 361 reporting period. In addition to that, Hyundai Elevator is constantly hiring and nurturing female employees despite the unique characteristics of machinery manufacturing and facilities business. In 2016, the number of female employees higher was increased by 18% from 172 in 2015 to 203, in positions 2014 2015 2016 such as Managers (team leader) and Professional occupations (education, public relations, services, sales skills, lawyers and nurses). Through these efforts, it is helping to create firm ground for female workers for careerand capacity-building opportunities. Operation of Compliance Program (CP) Voluntary Hyundai Elevator notifies employees, external stakeholders and customers of our strict compliance with Compliance of the Fair Trade Act to establish a culture of fair trade through the Management Meeting and CEO’s Letter. Fair Trade We have introduced and implemented nine fair trade requisites, including seven requisites in fair trade compliance programs recommended by the Korea Fair Trade Commission and two requisites for voluntary fair trade operation. Operation of Nine Major Factors for CP Division Item Content Declaration of will and direction •Declaration of voluntary compliance with fair trade regulations for CP (CEO) 36 Appointment of Voluntary Hyundai Elevator SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 •Managing Director Ki-Seon Kwon appointed by BOD Compliance Manager 37 Production and distribution of the •Comprehensive handbook and Booklet (e-book) for voluntary compliance manual subcontractors published Mandatory Factors •Regular training (two hours per program, half-yearly), Training program on voluntary CP Ad hoc training, Compliance Newsletter Internal supervisory system •Regular training (twice a year, half-yearly), Ad hoc training monitoring Sanction on violators •Standing sanctions on violation of laws and cyber reporting system Document control system •Establishment and operation of compliance support system •Consisting of executives in departments related to fair trade Operation of CP Committee •Establishing basic directions in CP, holding review and consultation for Voluntary important matters Factors Operating Performance •Reporting the operating performance to the BOD Assessment •Conducting rating CEO Letter Governance Ethical Management Stakeholder Engagement System The core of the Fair Trade Compliance Program is prevention and monitoring of legal violations. Hyundai Elevator conducts cartel risk survey, inspection on fair subcontract transaction process and unfair special contract with subcontractors, and inspection on compliance of Framework Act On The Construction Industry and Fair Subcontract Transactions Act half-yearly (first/second half of the year). We also have strict discipline and sanctions systems to prevent violations of relevant laws and regulations. 2016 Fair Trade Compliance Program Performance Division Description Amendment of regulations related to CP committee operation through the BOD Introduction of compliance self-practice assessment index Signing compliance pledge (1,940 employees) CP Inspection: Investigation on actual condition for improving relations with dealership, First Half inspection on the use of standard subcontracting contract, and inspection on compliance with issuance of reduced subcontracting payment deeds in writing First-half regular training: Globalization and Global Compliance (974 employees) Fair Trade Training (63 departments / teams, 861 employees) Departmental risk assessment: Selection of 14 high-risk departments related to fair trade and 9 high-risk departments related to subcontracting Intensive training and monitoring for high-risk departments Second Half CP inspection: Inspection on execution of mandatory notification of test results, inspection on fulfillment of subcontract payment guarantee, and inspection on execution of mandatory design change notification Distribution of mouse pads for promoting cartel prevention CP PR activities: Compliance Newsletter (6 times) CP Education In order to establish a culture of self-compliance practice for fair trade, we provide employees training courses on violations of the Fair Trade Act and subcontracting and cartel prevention. We regularly conduct CP training for our employees in the first and second half of the year. Special training is provided to high-risk departments, executives, new employees, agents, and sales representatives. We also provide opportunities for employees to experience the importance of compliance firsthand through various programs, including company-wise CP workshop and a declaration ceremony on compliance management. Support for Partners’ CP for Fair Trade Hyundai Elevator has signed fair trade agreements with our business partners every year to foster mutual competitiveness for both parties. We have entered into an ethical management agreement to forge a transparent trading relation with suppliers and sound ethical management practices. We also comply with four exemplary subcontracting practices and build a fair trade culture by using standard subcontracting contract forms. In addition, detailed action items that HDEL employees and employees of partner companies can always refer to are posted on our website (http://www.hyundaielevator.co.kr). Governance & Leadership Stakeholder Engagement System Stakeholder Grouping and Classification Stakeholder As an upstanding corporate citizen, Hyundai Elevator has multiple relationships with various Engagement stakeholders. We have set up six major stakeholder groups based on the responsibility and influence on our management activities: shareholders, investors, customers, employees, local communities, partners and governments. Stakeholder Engagement Channels and Activities Hyundai Elevator has established channels of communication for each stakeholder group to identify their key concerns. We regularly monitor stakeholder engagement and collect feedback to identify risks and opportunities. Key opinions are reflected in our management activities, and methods and activities of stakeholder engagement are disclosed in our Sustainability Report. Stakeholder Engagement Channels and Activities Interval :  On-demand  Yearly  Half-yearly  Quarterly  Occasionally  Ordinarily Internal Employee Issue Action Communication Channel & Interval •Improvement of job satisfaction and welfare • Strengthened training programs for job • In-house intranet  program competence • Company newsletter  • Enhanced communication within company • Promoting maternity protection system • Survey on employees  • Building mutually beneficial labor-management • Wage collective negotiation  relations • Labor-management meetings  • Competency development and knowledge sharing and councils • Fair assessment and rewards External Customer Issue Action Communication Channel & Interval • Customer complaint handling •Participated in Korea International Elevator Expo •HCCC  •Strengthened customer satisfaction-related (for introducing new technology and product) (Hyundai Customer Care Center) activities • Promoting safety campaigns to prevent accidents • Customer Satisfaction Survey  • Product quality improvement • Systematization of quality management system • Customer Invitation  38 • Higher product accountability •Conducted regular sales meeting (65 participants • Website  Hyundai Elevator SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 • Strengthening communication with customers from 46 sales agencies) 39 •CS education program External Shareholder and Investor Issue Action Communication Channel & Interval • Participation in decision-making process through • Transparent management disclosure • Website  shareholders’ meeting • Performance and IR data announcement • General Shareholders’ Meeting  •Sound corporate governance • Establishment of Turkey corporation • Board Meeting  •Improved profitability/dividend policy • IR Activity  • Sustainable growth/risk management • Transparent remuneration system for executives CEO Letter Governance Ethical Management Stakeholder Engagement System External Business Partner Issue Action Communication Channel & Interval • Support for competitiveness and competence •F inancial support, technical support / protection • Cosigned company meetings  • Expanded communication and information •S upport for recruiting and welfare • Business partner meetings  sharing •M onitoring for compliance of subcontract act • Sending newsletters  • Fair trade • Satisfactory Survey  External Local Community Issue Action Communication Channel & Interval • Communication and opinion exchange on a • ‌Corporate social responsibility activities, including • Various CSR activities  regular basis scholarship for local talents, love house repairing • Building sisterhood ties and  • Support for the growth of local community project, one corporation-one village linking program. partnership  adjacent to HDEL business site • Securing  funds with donation from executives and • Meetings with local community corporate credit card points representatives External Government Issue Action Communication Channel & Interval • Compliance of laws and regulations • Stricter ethical management • Agreement with government  • Tax payment / policy cooperation agencies and public institutions • Private-Public partnership • Participating in government funded projects • Survey  Stakeholder Survey Top 5 Sustainability Issues We conducted a survey on internal/external stakeholders in order to collect feedback on the previous year’s report and identify issues of interests and their materiality. The survey on the previous year’s report showed that the stakeholders found content ➊ Investment and activities for R&D on technical competitiveness, economic performance, financial status, ethical management, and company overview useful. ➋ Improvement of product safety The survey was also conducted on the issues of interest and materiality in seven areas; general sustainability management, economy, customer, business partners, employees, local ➌ Fair performance assessment community, and environment. The results showed that the stakeholders selected ‘Investment and activities for R&D’ and ‘Improvement of product safety’ as the most material issues. ➍ Anti-discrimination and stronger human rights Those two issued were followed by ‘Fair performance assessment,’ ‘Anti-discrimination and stronger human rights,’ and ‘Activities for enhancing employee satisfaction.’ ➎ Activities for enhancing employee satisfaction 3 2 Hyundai Elevator SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 Strategic Focus Risk and Opportunity Materiality Assessment Process and Result 4 2 p~ 4 3 p 44p~45p Issue 1: Improvement of Product I ss u e 2 : Enhancement of Safety Employee Competence and Welfare Benefits 4 6 p~ 4 9 p 50p~53p Issue 3: Enhancement of Issue 4: Enhancement of Customer Safety and Health at Workplace Satisfaction through Communication 5 4 p~ 5 7 p 58p~61p Strategic Focus Risk and Opportunity Policy Due to the fast-changing business environment, the risks inside and outside the company have diversified and the correlation among those risks has increased accordingly. In this context, it has become ever more important to identify and prevent various risks from a company-wide perspective. Hyundai Elevator monitors and preemptively responds to risks by identifying financial and non-financial risks that can pose a threat to the overall management activities and formulating proper measures to handle such risks. Management System Hyundai Elevator has established a preemptive risk prevention system to minimize the possibility of risks and potential damages. To that end, it has identified risks as financial and non-financial risks, and preemptively responded to those based on definition and cause of each risk factor. Major financial and non-financial risks are reviewed and evaluated in the subsidiary committees of the board: Audit Committee and Sustainable Management Committee to formulate proper action plans. Financial Risk The Audit Committee reviews and evaluates key financial risks so that the BOD can make proper decisions on action plans for matters that can significantly affect HDEL's business plans and operations. Financial risk is divided into Market risk, Credit risk, Liquidity risk, and Capital risk. Those risks are handled by thorough research, analysis, monitoring, and proper hedging. Through this, we aim to make sound financial structure and raise the predictability of management indicators so as to realize our management plans in a more sustainable way. Non-Financial Risk Hyundai Elevator's Sustainability Management Committee reviews major non-financial risks that can arise from general business activities in areas including safety, environment, quality, and company reputation, and based on the review results, identifies and responds to both risks and opportunities. Non-financial risks are categorized into Legal Risk, Safety and Health Risk, and Environment Risk. By establishing proper response process, we try to minimize possible losses from such risks. Opportunities in the 4th Industrial Revolution In an effort to better respond to the 4th Industrial Revolution emerging as the next big thing in global trend, Hyundai Elevator established a dedicated team, '4th Industrial Revolution TFT' in 2017. This 4th Industrial Revolution TFT is divided into Planning, Manufacturing, and Service divisions, which will be in charge of company-wide strategic planning and execution, smart factory operation, and new business development and commercialization, respectively. The Steering Committee will examine the 42 progress of projects conducted by the TFT, encouraging it to better execute its plans. Going forward, Hyundai Elevator will strive Hyundai Elevator SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 to more effectively and strategically respond to global trends by improving productivity with technological convergence, 43 promoting activities for the 4th Industrial Revolution, and strengthening corporate competitiveness with new products and items. TFT Organization CEO CSO STEERING COMMITTEE H-1 Innovation Division Manufacturing Division Service Business Division 4th Industrial Revolution 4th Industrial Revolution 4th Industrial Revolution Planning Team Manufacturing Team Service Team Risk and Opportunity Materiality Assessment Process and Result Issue 1: Improvement of Product Safety Issue 2: Enhancement of Employee Competence and Welfare Benefits Issue 3: Enhancement of Safety and Health at Workplace Issue 4: Enhancement of Customer Satisfaction through Communication Type Definition Cause Action • Conducting ‌ sensitivity analysis on six currencies including Risk resulting from an increase/ Caused by the fluctuating USD, EUR and JPY Foreign decrease of sales and cost of sales exchange rate affecting overseas • ‌Measuring exchange rate risk driven by exchange rate Exchange in relation to fluctuation of project operation or raw  fluctuations on a regular basis Risk exchange rate affecting assets material purchase • Hedging ‌ such as substitute settlement of foreign currency, and/or liabilities currency swap, and exchange risk insurance • Improving ‌ short and long term debt structure Risk coming from changes in Market • Maintaining ‌ proper ratio between fixed rate and variable rate interest income and expenses Risk Interest Rate Deposits and borrowings having  deposits arising from deposits and Risk variable interest rate terms • Monitoring ‌ interest rate trends on a weekly/monthly basis and borrowings due to changes in establishing proper countermeasures future market interest rates • Conducting ‌ analysis on impact of fluctuating interest rate Risk of changes in the price of • Estimating ‌ impact of rising/falling value of derivative financial Derived from changes in the Financial Risk financial assets at fair value assets Price Risk through profit or loss and price of derivative financial  • Estimating ‌ impact of rising/falling value of available-for-sale assets and equity securities available-for-sale financial assets financial assets • Setting ‌ credit limits for customers and counter parties • Conducting ‌ financial credit rating of the customer and counter Possibility that the customer or the Arising from normal trading and party, taking into account their financial conditions (past and Credit Risk counter party may fail to comply  investment activities present) other relevant factors with the terms of the contract • ‌Conducting credit risk exposure assessment through analysis of individual bonds • Continuously ‌ forecasting cash flow and monitoring financial Possibility of external payment When the payment to external market liquidity status Liquidity Risk problems due to lack of liquidity of party cannot be made within the  • Maintaining ‌ ample liquidity capacity through vigorous business assets agreed period. activities and utilization of credit limits in financial institution. • Conducting ‌ maturity analysis of matured financial liabilities Arising from general business Possibility of problem in providing • Conducting ‌ monthly monitoring on financial ratios such as debt activities, including negative Capital Risk profits to shareholders and impact on performance due to  ratio, net debt ratio stakeholders on a continued basis • Executing ‌ proper measures to improve financial structure financial/non-financial losses • Inspecting, ‌ evaluating, and improving compliance of laws, Risk of legal sanctions, financial regulations, and directions throughout the entire business Cased in the forms of legal loss, compromised reputation, etc. activities disputes, sanctions, or loss in Legal Risk due to violation of internal case that the legal standards or  • Operating ‌ monitoring system and fraud preventive regulations, code of ethics, and management system regulations are violated. laws and regulations. • ‌Operating education program on fair trading compliance program • ‌Having discussion on measures to strengthen safety and health Non-Financial Risk sector throughout the company via activities of Industrial Safety and Health Committee Fine, legal sanctions, discontinued Insufficient response to changes • Conducting ‌ periodic checkups on safety and health conditions business, financial loss, and in relevant laws and regulations, Safety & of domestic and overseas business sites and identifying Health Risk compromised reputation caused or insufficient awareness  potential risks by safety accident or violation of training, personal negligence, or • Operating ‌ phased accident response process relevant laws and regulations lack of recognition • Establishing ‌ company-wise safety and health directions and strengthening risk management through effective safety and health management system. Potential negative impact on the In case where the company did • Analyzing ‌ environmental impact of its business activities company such as fine, unintended not meet the required level and • Establishing ‌ 5-year EHS Plan and Global EHS strategic system Environmental costs, and legal sanctions due to scope of environmental • Monitoring ‌ the trend in relevant regulations and policies Risk violation of relevant laws and information disclosure or failed  • Establishing ‌ and managing GHG inventory regulations or environmental to respond to relevant laws and • Operating ‌ harmful chemical substance and waste accidents regulations management process Risk Management Process Process Drawing Quantifiable Minimizing Feasibility Risks Indicators Loss Confirmation Strategic Focus Materiality Assessment Process and Result Hyundai Elevator selected core issues based on key areas of interest identified in the Materiality Assessment, and provided as detailed information as possible on such issues in this section. This report is in accordance with the formats of the reporting principles of the GRI Guidelines for global sustainability reporting. Materiality Assessment Process Hyundai Elevator performed the materiality assessment based on the GRI reporting principles of “Stakeholder Inclusiveness”, “Sustainability Context”, “Materiality” and “Completeness.” The Assessment was conducted by evaluating stakeholder impact and business relevance of 32 issues in consideration of the characteristics of the industry and the current circumstances of Hyundai Elevator. Materiality Assessment Process and Issue Reporting Step 1 Step 2 Step 3 Issue Pooling Assessment Selecting Material Issues Global benchmarking Business Relevance Assessment Materiality assessment results Analysis of global standards Global benchmarking results Reported materials Media analysis Results from the analysis of global standards Media analysis results   Stakeholder Impact Assessment Employee interview analysis results Pool of 32 Issues Stakeholder survey results 11 Material Issues ▼ ▼ ▼ To organize a pool of 32 issues for our 2017 Business relevance assessment: Global A total of 11 issues were selected in areas Sustainability Report, Hyundai Elevator benchmarking efforts revealed ‘investment ranging from economy, society, to consulted our own analysis on key issues in and activities for R&D in sustainable environment, as the result of the materiality terms of management, domestic and management strategies’ is as material issue. assessment. 'Improvement of product safety' Analysis of international standards showed overseas elevator industry, press release on and 'Investment and activities for R&D' are ‘legalization of corporate social responsibility’ Hyundai Elevator for the last three years, and and ‘expansion of regulations on capital selected as key issues for two consecutive international standards including GRI markets’ as material issues. Media analysis years, while 'Fair and transparent selection of Standards and ISO 26000. revealed that ‘corporate governance’ and partners', ‘Business-related social 44 ‘advancement into new and overseas markets’ contribution activities’, ‘Management of Hyundai Elevator SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 were most frequently reported keywords. environment pollutants’, and ‘Response to 45 climate change’ do not made the top 11 Stakeholder impact assessment: Stakeholder issues. ‘Anti-discrimination and stronger survey results showed that ‘Investment and human rights’ and ‘expansion of ethical activities for R&D in sustainable management management activities’ were added to the list strategies’, ‘Improvement of product safety,’ for the first time this year. ‘Fair performance assessment,’ ‘Antidiscrimination and stronger human rights’ were most interested areas. For two consecutive years, the ‘improvement of product safety’ was selected as a key issue; ‘fair performance assessment,’ ‘antidiscrimination’ and ‘activities for enhancing employee satisfaction’ were added to key issues compared to the previous year. Risk and Opportunity Materiality Assessment Process and Result Issue 1: Improvement of Product Safety Issue 2: Enhancement of Employee Competence and Welfare Benefits Issue 3: Enhancement of Safety and Health at Workplace Issue 4: Enhancement of Customer Satisfaction through Communication Materiality Assessment Results | Materiality Map Key Issues Key 5 1 Topics No Issue* Fair evaluation 3 1 Improvement of product safety 2 Maximizing customer value with quality innovation 7 2 Activities for enhancing employee satisfaction 6 4 Global new market establishment 9 3 Anti-discrimination and stronger human rights Transparency in selection of business partners 11 8 4 Strengthening employee competencies 10 Business Impact Sustainable innovation in the supply chain 5 Investment and activities for R&D Profit enhancement Development of environment-friendly products Managing toxic chemicals 6 Enhancement of safety and health in work site Managing polluting materials Expanding communication with business partners Reporting 7 Strengthening communication with employees Management of whole process Topics Establishing and operating a green supply system Disclosing product information 8 Expansion of ethical management activities Social contribution related to the business Reducing environmental Supporting Response to climate change influence from business activities for Enhancement of safety and health in installation operations business Social contribution with regard to the local needs 9 or service sites Recycling partners Enhancement of customer satisfaction through Improving local environment Potential 10 communication Social contribution in entered markets Topics (Monitoring) Prevention of unfair trading 11 (price-fixing, illegal lobbying, etc.) Social Relevance *Material Issues related to policy and system* have been excluded from the materiality map. ‌ Sustainability strategy, sustainability committee and organizational operation, governance integrity, promoting stakeholder participation process, management leadership, building (* the risk management process, growing together policies, social contribution strategy and policies, corporate environmental management system establishment and implementation) Contents for Material Issues Impact on Hyundai Elevator Material Issue Shareholder Business Local Government Page Customer Employee /Investor Partner Community /NGO Improvement of product safety 46-49 Activities for enhancing employee satisfaction 52-53 Anti-discrimination and stronger human rights 36 Strengthening employee competencies 50-51 Investment and activities for R&D 26-27 Enhancement of safety and health in work site 54-57 Strengthening communication with employees 52 Expansion of ethical management activities 34-35 Enhancement of safety and health in installation or 54-57 service sites Enhancement of customer satisfaction through 58-61 communication Prevention of unfair trading 36-37 (price-fixing, illegal lobbying, etc.) [ Issue 1 ] Improvement of Product Safety Context Safe operation of elevator is the top priority of Hyundai Elevator, as it is directly related to safety of passengers. We have applied the top-notch safety assurance process from the development to installation stages with thorough verification so as to make your elevator experience safer and more pleasant. Our Differentiation Hyundai Elevator develops, produces, and manages our products with the safety of customers as the top priority. In line with the efforts to realize the highest level of safety and customer satisfaction, we have established DCB (Design Change Board) designed to redefine the quality assurance system for new products. Outcomes Product Reliability Test Development Stage stage 0 stage 1 stage 2 stage 3 stage 4 stage 5 Proto-type TEST Post-mass Reliability Code Review Test Planning (Single unit Tower TEST Pilot TEST production quality Test reliablity) analysis GATE 0 GATE 1 GATE 2 GATE 3 GATE 4 GATE 5 Conducting reliability test with strict standards to improve product stability From the initial product development stage to final field pilot test and statistical analysis of post-production quality, etc. 46 Hyundai Elevator SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 * Continue to accumulate data for new tests conducted in 2016 47 Outlook Hyundai Elevator is preparing to revise its quality management system in accordance with ISO 9001: 2015 revised standard to improve the safety of our products. In order to further sophisticate quality management, we plan to introduce D-FMEA (Design-Failure Mode Effects Analysis) and fostering reliability experts, thereby continuously improving the safety of our products. Risk and Opportunity Materiality Assessment Process and Result Strategic Focus Issue 1: Improvement of Product Safety Issue 2: Enhancement of Employee Competence and Welfare Benefits Issue 3: Enhancement of Safety and Health at Workplace Issue 4: Enhancement of Customer Satisfaction through Communication Efforts to enhance product safety Main Activity Quality management Management of Safety test Product system production quality certification Quality Management System As part of our efforts to improve product safety, Hyundai Elevator has established and operated an enterprise-wide quality management system. Hyundai Elevator's quality management system is applied throughout business processes from sales to production, installation and maintenance to improve the safety of our products. All employees are aware of and adhere to the relevant regulations during all processes. Hyundai Elevator has obtained ISO 9001 (Quality Management System), ISO 14001 (Environmental Management System) and OHSAS 18001 (Safety and Health Management System) certification, as it strives to operate a systematic and effective quality management system. In particular, in 2016, a total of 25 core business processes were redefined in an effort to systematize the entire quality management system. Throughout the systematization process that took about 11 months from March 2016, Hyundai Elevator introduced APQP (Advanced Product Quality Planning) technique to its existing system. Through this, we expect that product safety will be significantly improved, as quality defects and product defect rate are expected to be decreased from the development stage. Busan International Finance Center(BIFC) building declaration ceremony Quality management structure map All-in-one system 30 min 2 hours Sales Development/ Purchase Domestic production Inspection/ Shipping Installation/ Design (manufacturing/ Testing Service installation) Strategic Focus Management of Production Quality Hyundai Elevator carries out quality improvement activities through the APQP technique and the FMEA technique to prevent quality defects from the development stage. In particular, the FMEA technique helps to prevent recurrence of error or defect in the production stage by clearly evaluating the causes and effects of such faults or errors so as to more effectively improve the quality of products. In 2017, we plan to reorganize our quality management system in accordance with the revised ISO 9001: 2015 and implement the D-FMEA (Design-Failure Mode Effects Analysis). Hyundai Elevator plans to improve the safety of our products through systematic quality inspection and regular overhaul and reorganization of the system. In addition, we plan to minimize quality problems from the development stage to the process and production stage, thereby realizing higher customer satisfaction and safety of our products. Safety Test Reliability equipment Hyundai Elevator is engaged in various activities to check the safety of products not only in the reinforcement and investments production process but also in the post-production stages. First, in order to improve the quality of major safety-related parts, we are restructuring the reliability system of the developed 48 60% increase in products. From 2016, we have invested KRW 270 million to reinforce reliability equipment. Hyundai Elevator SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 investments Furthermore, we also plan to invest 60% more in 2017 in reliability sector. We have also 49 270 million won restructured the education and training systems. Going forward, we plan to continue our efforts to foster product reliability experts through systematic education and to ensure higher quality and stability of safety-related parts. 2016 2017 Hyundai Elevator utilizes cutting-edge services to improve the safety of our products by introducing follow-up check on the products. Hyundai Real Time Service (HRTS), a remote product maintenance service developed by Hyundai Elevator, monitors the status of elevators 24 hours throughout the year. In addition, by analyzing the operation data, we identify the optimum replacement cycle of consumables, thereby reducing costs and preventing malfunctions. Hyundai Elevator will also continue to increase the applicable models for HRTS models through vigorous research. Risk and Opportunity Materiality Assessment Process and Result Issue 1: Improvement of Product Safety Issue 2: Enhancement of Employee Competence and Welfare Benefits Issue 3: Enhancement of Safety and Health at Workplace Issue 4: Enhancement of Customer Satisfaction through Communication Product Certification Hyundai Elevator has acquired external certification in an effort to increase reliability of product External safety and stability. We have obtained KC, CE mark (compulsory marking in the EU), and the UL/ Certification (KC) CSA in the US and Canada, thus securing objective reliability of our product. for Elevator Safety In addition, in order to ensure the safety of elevator parts, we also have conducted safety tests for the parts and have acquired external certifications for each part. Certified components include emergency stop devices, governors, locks on platform doors, brakes for over-speed prevention devices, shock absorbers (spring, hydraulic), anti-departing devices with doors open and platform door assemblies. With thorough inspections and tests for all parts, we make every effort to keep our units and products safe. While striving to improve product safety internally, Hyundai Elevator continues to carry out quality control and improvement activities to ensure that it is well appreciated in external objective evaluation and certification. Product safety certification Emergency stop device Ascending overspeed protection brake Draft gear EMI certification Governor Platform door locking device [ Issue 2 ] Enhancement of Employee Competence and Welfare Benefits Context 'Human resource development' is an essential element for securing a sustainable competitive advantage and a core value for achieving our management goals. Hyundai Elevator will only be able to further grow by cultivating excellent employees with global competitiveness through systematic talent cultivation so that excellent talents can achieve the best results in their respective fields. Our Differentiation Hyundai Elevator recognizes that it is an important task to find and cultivate key talent for continuous growth of our business in the global market. In order to continuously grow and nurture employees in accordance with the corporate vision and strategy, we operate a systematic human resource development program. Outcomes Job Training Sexual Average Received the 7th Best of (Number of Harassment Education CHAMP Day Grand Prize Prevention Fee Per (Minister Prize from the Hours Per 10,662 10,662 Program Employee Ministry of Employment capita) and Labor) (Number of (Thousand Attendees) in KRW) 1,081.0 Acquired Grade A in the 37.9 75.9 69.5* 1,559 1,690 1,925 656.2 695.6 National Human Resource Development Consortium 2014 2015 2016 2014 2015 2016 2014 2015 2016 in 2016 (hosted by the 50 Ministry of Employment Hyundai Elevator SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 *Hyundai Elevator is conducting Hanmaum (One heart) training for all employees every two years. As the Hanmaum and Labor) training was conducted in 2015, per capital training hours and fees were slightly decreased in 2016. 51 Outlook Hyundai Elevator plans to expand its support for specialized education programs to meet the needs of the market and strengthen employees' individual competencies. In addition, we will create an environment in which individuals and organizations can grow together by utilizing new learning methods and customized education programs in response to the rapidly changing external environments. Risk and Opportunity Materiality Assessment Process and Result STRATEGIC FOCUS Issue 1: Improvement of Product Safety Issue 2: Enhancement of Employee Competence and Welfare Benefits Issue 3: Enhancement of Safety and Health at Workplace Issue 4: Enhancement of Customer Satisfaction through Communication HR Development Roadmap and Training System Main Activity To achieve sustainable growth of employees and to reach the globalization strategy, Hyundai Elevator has human resource development program consisting of three axes: leadership, professionalism, and organizational culture. Leadership Professional Organizational Culture Overview Leadership Competency Expertise Global Culture Developing the leadership Improving common Understanding company-wise Improving expertise Improving global communication, core value, competencies required for competencies for all for elevator sector business competencies and culture each position employees Future Leader Global Task Report Writing Skills Installation of Elevator Hanmaum Training (Innovation School, HLDP) Competency Competency-Building of the Usage of MS Office Maintenance of Elevator Regional Expert Training Managerial Issues Curriculum Heads of Teams/Departments Tax / Financial Field Safety / Female Leadership Production and Sales Foreign Language Accounting CP Education Workplace Learning (Mentoring, Coaching, OJT) Introductory Training for New (Career) Employees New Employee Fostering System Training Program for New Employees Program Contents Total For new employees, Hyundai Elevator provides a one-year introductory program to assist them Name Period quickly to settle in the organization and to adapt to their work. In 2016, a total of 36 new Core values Group and basic employees contributed to the growth of Hyundai Elevator by faithfully completing one-year Training competencies programs consisting of group training, introductory training, and department-specific training. (2 weeks) Understanding Introductory elevator sector Program and organization Leadership Program (4 weeks) Hyundai Elevator operates a leadership program to improve the leadership of the employees Adopting to on-site Departmental department and and to foster new leaders for the next generation. The leadership program, which is provided by OJT organization position, helps employees to carry out their current duties successfully and to prepare for their (4 weeks) 1 year future roles. In addition, we also run female leadership programs for female employees' selfEssential MBA for On-Line improvement and career development. New Employees Education (4 weeks) Leadership Number of Completed Familiarizing with Purpose Note (Subject) Field Work Program Name Employees field work (Installation) Cultivating members who lead organizational Associate ~ (2 weeks) Innovation change and innovation in a rapidly changing Assistant 57 Strengthen School society Manager Organizational Mentoring Network Establishing personal vision and connecting it Associate ~ (12 weeks) Vision School with the organizational vision to foster Deputy General 299 employees who realize their vision Manager Training business leaders (executives) with HLDP (Hyundai practical management ability to create and Leader Develop General Manager 48 rebuild the business environment and Contents of the Global Program) organizational culture Task Competency Building Global Task Competency Building Global Capacity Building Program • ‌English, Chinese and other Hyundai Elevator operates a program to enhance the global competitiveness of our employees language programs • ‌Global business manners and in order to bring the foundation for future value creation to the global level. As the overseas etiquette elevator market expands, we are providing diverse training courses such as Global Job • ‌Global business communication • ‌Overseas business strategy and Competency Enhancement Program and Global Regional Research Courses to foster global execution talents that will lead the global market going forward. In 2016, a total of 189 employees participated in the Global Job Competency Enhancement Program, and 98 employees Global Regional Research completed Global Regional Professional Fostering Courses. In addition to strengthening its global capabilities, Hyundai Elevator operates professional training programs to enhance the • ‌Understanding the Industry / Economy and Culture of Countries job competency of its employees. As the need for job sophistication and expert fostering is on • ‌Analysis of success / failure cases the rise, we have developed and operated an elevator specialist curriculum based on the (businesses advanced into overseas markets) competencies derived from analyses on each job. Hyundai Elevator will continue to strengthen • ‌Regional Professional Fostering job competence of the employees and plan to expand its job competency training courses such Courses (Turkey, Malaysia) as elevator installation course and elevator maintenance course. STRATEGIC FOCUS Employee Communication Hyundai Elevator's labor union is actively engaged in an active communication with various labor groups, via collective wage negotiation, quarterly labor-management cooperation, cafeteria improvement committee, and safety and health committee. In particular, the 1st Junior Board, launched in 2007 as part of our efforts to promote internal communication, has actively and successfully played its part. The Junior Board is an autonomous consultative body that is designed to discover innovative management ideas and provide employees with opportunities to participate in management through smooth communication between departments and positions. The Board holds regular monthly meetings to find ways to develop the company, discover new business items, improve corporate culture, and collect opinions and suggestions from other employees. Employee Welfare Benefits Reward Marking the '28th year of non-complication' this year, Hyundai Elevator recognizes the stable System employment status of our employees as the foremost important competitiveness of our Welfare Club business. In line with this perspective, we are operating the best welfare system for our Point Employee Activity employees and continuously improving and managing welfare benefits in various fields, System Welfare Benefits including medical care fees, child education fees, and social activities (in-house clubs, etc.) Child Medical Tuition Expense Reward System Support Support Hyundai Elevator is seeking to improve corporate competitiveness and productivity by collecting suggestions from our employees on cost reduction and efficiency of workforce resources through an in-house proposal system. We encourage our employees to actively participate in the proposal activities by providing them with rewards and prizes. We also have a long-term employee reward system to encourage and long-term service and to appreciate his/her hard work. When the employee has worked in Hyundai Elevator for 5 to 30 years, they are provided with commemorative clocks, gold medals, vacation expenses, and paid holidays according to their service years so that they can work hard again with higher efficiency and concentration. Welfare Point System Hyundai Elevator offers the employees benefit points every year to improve the welfare of our employees. The points given to employees annually assist them to improve the quality of life; they can use the points at a number of designated areas both onand off-line shops for leisure, dining, and cultural experiences. Child Tuition Support In order to improve the welfare of our employees and reduce the burden on their family, we provide financial support for the tuition of children of our employees. Kindergarten education expenses for preschool children, middle and high school entrance fees and examination fees, full support for school administration fees, university entrance fees and tuition fees are all provided. We also provide middle and high school entrance fees, tuition fees, university entrance fees and tuition fees for students studying in overseas schools as well. 52 Hyundai Elevator SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 Medical Expense Support 53 Hyundai Elevator supports some medical expenses of our employees for promoting healthy life of the employees. In particular, we support the medical expenses of the employee him/herself and their immediate family members (parents, parents-in-law, and children) as well within the annual limit. This way, they can maintain healthy lives while taking care of the health of their family members. Club Activity We are actively supporting in-house club activities for improving the welfare of employees and promoting healthy lifestyles. The club activity allowance is provided only for the clubs established in accordance with the Company's regulations, with differential rates considering the number of members and years of operation. We also support participation fee for external events to enhance and promote the physical fitness and leisure activities of our employees. Risk and Opportunity Materiality Assessment Process and Result Issue 1: Improvement of Product Safety Issue 2: Enhancement of Employee Competence and Welfare Benefits Issue 3: Enhancement of Safety and Health at Workplace Issue 4: Enhancement of Customer Satisfaction through Communication Work & Learning Program Since 2016, Hyundai Elevator has systematically implemented education based on the national competency standards (NCS), and has begun a Work and Learning program so that job-seekers can grow as talents equipped with practical competencies desired by the company. The Work and Learning program was developed by incorporating the needs from the job sites to the technical trainee curriculum operated by Hyundai Elevator and by integrating government system designed to promote working and learning at the same time into the current curriculum. The trainee who participate in Hyundai Elevator's Work and Learning program first complete intensive group training for one month as Off-JT at the Icheon Headquarters. After being placed in the field department, they were given 11-month for work and learn period in the form of OJT under the on-site instructor. After 12 months of training period, they will receive a final evaluation. Based on the results of the evaluation, excellent trainee awards and excellent field instructor awards will be given. In 2016, a total of 56 students participated in this program, reborn as the desired talent equipped with practical job competencies. Hyundai Elevator will actively respond to government policies to implement a competence-based society. Business Partner’s Task Competency Building Program Hyundai Elevator is implementing technical expertise improvement training for employees of partner companies in order to achieve win-win cooperation and mutual growth between conglomerates and SMEs. We are striving to improve the technological capabilities of our partner companies' employees, focusing on manufacturing quality, installation and maintenance of elevator products. Especially, since we are currently carrying out the 'National Human Resources Development Consortium' education project, governed by the Ministry of Employment and Labor, we are developing and operating a professional technical education program for elevators based on NCS curriculum. In addition, Hyundai Elevator also operates an employee recruiting and training program for our business partners, through which tailored employees are trained to meet the actual demands in elevator sector. Through this program, job seekers who completed professional elevator training for four weeks (160 hours) can be hired by HDEL's partner companies via recruiting linkage program. In 2016, a total of 21 employees were hired by 16 SME partners through this program. C ase in P oint On September 22, 2016, Hyundai Elevator Technology Education Center was awarded the Grand Prize in Joint Training part, at the Best of CHAMP Day , the HRD Best Practice Competition, organized by the Ministry of Employment and Labor and the Korea Human Resources Development Service. The Best of CHAMP Day was held by the Ministry of Employment and Labor and Korea Human Resources Development Service in order to promote business efficiency and enthusiasm for further achievements among the participating businesses. This event was attended by about 214 business organizations. Hyundai Elevator, which was awarded the Grand Prize, received high praise for its Grand Prize 'G-Learning (Game-based Learning)', a new learning method for improving the in Best immersion in technical education, and case presentation on job competency improvement CHAMP through practical training. [ Issue 3 ] Enhancement of Safety and Health at Workplace Context There is always a risk and hazard in the elevator work sites and fields. Safety accident is a potential risk factor for management activities, which can result in financial impacts such as fines and delays in work process, as well as non-financial impacts such as a decline in the brand value of the company. Our Differentiation Considering the safety and health of our employees as a priority, Hyundai Elevator is strengthening its safety and health management system and carrying out field-based safety and health activities. In addition, we are establishing a five-year mid to long-term EHS* plan and are working to create a safer working environment by establishing a global EHS strategy system consisting of strategic tasks for each phase. In addition, the voluntary EHS culture settlement program that is centered on voluntary accident prevention activities of each department has been implemented. * Environment, Health & Safety Outcomes Safety Accident Rate Safety and Health Training Number of Accident Rate Number of Number of Accidents (Unit : %) Participants Hours (Unit : cases) 10,662 10,662 (Unit: person) (Unit: hour) 54 0.05 0.04 32,380 37,669 21,599 63,336 73,349 85,194 Hyundai Elevator SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 0 1 1 2014 2015 2016 2014 2015 2016 2014 2015 2016 2014 2015 2016 55 * ‌Number of Injured Employees /Number of Total Employees *100 Outlook Hyundai Elevator plans to improve safety and health at the workplace through rigorous inspection, evaluation, and education and prevention activities. We will actively carry out improvement activities to prevent safety and health accidents for a risk found during field inspection. Furthermore, we will create safer work environment by providing proper training to our employees to settle advanced culture for safety and healthy at workplace. Risk and Opportunity Materiality Assessment Process and Result STRATEGIC FOCUS Issue 1: Improvement of Product Safety Issue 2: Enhancement of Employee Competence and Welfare Benefits Issue 3: Enhancement of Safety and Health at Workplace Issue 4: Enhancement of Customer Satisfaction through Communication EHS POLICY Main Activity EHS (Environment, Health, Safety) Hyundai Elevator is deeply aware of the significance of environmental preservation. To lead green management and operate our business in a safe and healthy manner by being equipped with the best working environment, we will practice the following. 1. ‌Hyundai Elevator shall establish goals and detailed targets to minimize impacts of all management activities on the environment, safety and health, and make continuous improvements by checking their implementation. 2. ‌Hyundai Elevator shall comply with local statutes, agreements and organizational regulations, and establish and implement strict management standards if necessary in order to continuously improve its level. 3. ‌Hyundai Elevator shall actively promote the prevention of environmental pollution, the use of sustainable resources and the mitigation and countermeasure of climate change through the ISO 14001 development of eco-friendly technology, green purchasing and the continuous improvement of its process. 4. ‌Hyundai Elevator shall enhance the safety and health of employees, create a comfortable working environment, and achieve zero accidents by eliminating the causes of all harmful and dangerous factors at each workplace in relation to production, installation and service (A/S). 5. All ‌ employees shall be deeply aware of their social responsibilities for stakeholders, continue their education and training, and faithfully perform their responsibilities and roles. Hyundai Elevator shall actively meet the requirements of stakeholders in its management activities, and disclose its performance in a transparent manner so as to fulfill its corporate social responsibilities and conduct sustainable management. OHSAS 18001 Safety and Health Manual Hyundai Elevator has a Safety and Health Manual consisting of 43 items designed to promote safety and health at the workplace. This manual complies with the Industrial Safety and Health Act and the OHSAS 18001 standard, and other national and international standards, and provides specific guidelines and procedures for establishing a safe workplace. The main contents of the manual include accident handling, inspection and evaluation, training and education, health management, hazardous materials' management, and detailed instructions and procedures related to field work such as production, installation, and services. Type System Field Manual Total of 13 manuals Total of 10 manuals (Management • ‌Management : OHSAS 18001/Environmental Safety tasks/OHSAS Management • Safety ‌ protection item management manual Standards, 23) regulations/Industrial OHSAS operational manual/OHSAS preliminary review • business ‌ partner safety management manual manual • construction ‌ safety management manual • ‌Accidents: Safety accident manual/management of incongruencies/uninjury • f ‌ ire prevention management manual record operational manual/near-miss cases and potential threats manual • dangerous ‌ task management manual • prevention ‌ of musculoskeletal disease manual • ‌Evaluation : OHSAS inspection and evaluation manual • dangerous ‌ equipment management manual • ‌Training: Training manual • emergency ‌ response manual • ‌Health : Health management manual • risk ‌ assessment manual • occupational ‌ environment management manual • ‌Environment: Chemical and hazardous material management manual Guidelines Total of 2 guidelines Production Installation Service (Operational (4 guidelines) (13 guidelines) (1 guideline) guidelines, 20) STRATEGIC FOCUS Establishment of Voluntary Safety Culture Hyundai Elevator has implemented the voluntary EHS Culture Establishment Program to support the establishment of EHS culture through accident prevention activities* that each department voluntarily finds and improves problems. In 2016, the MP Installation Department was awarded the grand prize for the regular index category, and the Future Technology Department was awarded the best prize for the simple index category. The prizes and money were awarded at the closing ceremony in December. * ‌Accident Prevention Activity : Self-Inspection, Self-Improvement, Implementation of Management Program, Participation in Education, Voluntary EHS Campaign Activities, etc. Implementation • Target : 42 departments that need safety/environmental management (including 4 overseas corporations) Establishment of Corporate • Evaluation Index EHS Organization (Including 4 Overseas Corporations) Division Regular Index Simple Index Overseas Index 22 Department that 16 Department that Target 4 Overseas Corporations Management of EHS Indices Operate No Field Operate No Field (10 indices) Evaluation Index 10 Indices 8 Indices 8 Indices Award 1st ~ 5th 1st ~ 2nd 1st Evaluation (Departmental Index Management) • How to Reward : Awarded at the closing ceremony in the end of December •‌‌Follow-Up : The evaluation results will be reported through EHS monthly reports. In addition, the evaluation Award results and issues will be shared via e-mail (For High Rankings) Industrial Safety and Health Committee Hyundai Elevator operates the Industrial Safety and Health Committee to raise awareness for industrial safety and health throughout the company. The Industrial Safety Committee consists of nine HDEL managements members including the factory manager, the head of the quality safety center, the heads of the production, installation and service departments, and nine labor union members, including the chairman, the vice chairman, the branch manager and the safety manager. A variety of material items have been discussed, such as the establishment of a rapid response system for an accident, the company-wide sharing of information on EHS activities and the negotiation for improving the health of employees. Safety and Health Training Hyundai Elevator conducts a wide range of safety and health education and training courses for managers, HDEL employees, and those hired by our business partners. We provide both online and offline courses to enhance accessibility to education and utilize various learning methods such as experiential education and drama education to maximize learning effect. 56 Hyundai Elevator SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 57 Safety Experience Training Safety Play Training Business Partner Training Hyundai Elevator has also published casebooks to enhance the effectiveness of safety and health education and to help the employees better understand the contents. In this casebook, the safety and health accident cases are provided with illustration as comic books, so employees can be better aware of the possibility and causes of accidents and learn how to handle and prevent similar accidents. The casebook contains 67 cases of industrial accidents, including fall, overturning, flying objects, and constriction. Hyundai Elevator plans to constantly add industrial Safety and Health Accidents Casebook accident cases to the case book. Risk and Opportunity Materiality Assessment Process and Result Issue 1: Improvement of Product Safety Issue 2: Enhancement of Employee Competence and Welfare Benefits Issue 3: Enhancement of Safety and Health at Workplace Issue 4: Enhancement of Customer Satisfaction through Communication Safety and Health Promotion Activity Hyundai Elevator is carrying out various activities to promote safety and health at workplaces. We investigate and prevent harmful factors that cause musculoskeletal disorders, while installing AEDs (Automatic Cardioverter Defibrillator) at workplaces and providing employees CPR training in order to respond to the increasing risk of cardiac arrest of our employees due to aging. In addition, we provide preventive education for noise-induced hearing loss that can be caused by the noise of the workplace so as to improve the overall health conditions of employees. In addition, we are strengthening our responsiveness to fire risks that may arise in our workplace through fire drills conducted once a year. We transmit safety and health information to all employees and employees of partner companies through smart phone text services in case of emergency. Accident Response Process By establishing a step-by-step response process, Hyundai elevator is effectively coping with occupational safety and health accidents that can sometimes inevitably occur. The four-step process consists of reporting to relevant departments and personnel, notification of the accident, investigation, and analysis of the cause, as well as a phase where measures to prevent recurrence are established. Through these efforts, we actively respond to accidents that may arise and strive to prevent those from occurring again. Step Contents Within 1 hour of the accident, the occurrence of the accident shall be reported to CEO and relevant departments (Head of applicable business division, Directors of Quality Safety Step 1: division, Strategic Planning Department, Public Relations Department, Legal Affairs Report Support Department, Labor Union, Group Strategic Planning Division, etc.) via text message or phone call. Intensive inspection on the accident and major safety points, Creating safety newsletter Step 2: after concurrent propagation of the notification of the event to HDEL and partner companies' Notification employees via KakaoTalk and SMS (SMS) Crisis management TFT formed for joint accident investigation and cause analysis Head of TFT: Director of applicable business unit Step 3: ‌Members: Director/Manager of applicable departments, Director of Management Investigation & Department, Safety and Environment Department Analysis ‌General affairs for internal/external affairs: Group's safety manager/Director of Quality Safety Division Step 4: Prevention of Establishing and implementing preventive measures against recurrence Recurrence Issues Requiring Actions Assessment of Safety and Health at Workplace Hyundai Elevator evaluates safety and health conditions at workplaces and conducts an analysis Workingof risk factors and carries out improvement activities. In the second half of 2016, we analyzed Environmental risk factors by business process in each business site. As a result, a total of 172 improvement 36 targets were identified from mechanical, electrical, and chemical processes, and those were Taskimproved by 100% through thorough improvement activities. Mechanical Specific Risk 54 43 Hyundai Elevator is managing and evaluating the EHS index performance so that each department can autonomously draw out and improve its problems. The target department is 38 departments Electrical Chemical in total, including 5 overseas corporations. Based on their activities in evaluation, excellent 28 11 departments are awarded. Since the working-level employees are directly managing related performances, safety and health awareness and accident prevention activities of applicable departments are strengthened, contributing to advanced EHS culture in Hyundai Elevator. Total Hyundai Elevator will continue to do our best to make our workplace safer and healthier, by 172 making continuous research efforts on measures to manage and improve safety and health conditions at our workplace. [ Issue 4 ] Enhancement of Customer Satisfaction through Communication Context Communicating with customers is essential for corporate image and reliability. To ensure sustainable market competitiveness, it is important to provide products and services that satisfy customers. We will continue to achieve long-term growth based on customer trust and satisfaction through prompt and friendly communication with our customers. Our Differentiation Hyundai Elevator maximizes customer satisfaction with prompt response to their feedback and reputable service quality. In response to changes in the 4th Industrial Revolution, our quality services and active communication with customers using Big Data and are translated into high customer satisfaction. Outcomes Results of Customer Satisfaction Survey Customer Hospitality Swiftness Satisfaction (Unit : Point) (Unit : Point) (Unit : Point) 10,662 10,662 10,662 10,662 10,662 10,662 58 93.8 94.8 93.3 95.0 93.2 94.5 92.5 95.0 91.1 94.2 92.4 95.0 Hyundai Elevator SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 59 2014 2015 2016 2017 2014 2015 2016 2017 2014 2015 2016 2017 Outlook Hyundai Elevator will provide our customers with higher quality service based on the Service Excellence team that was newly established in 2017. In addition, we will make a customer satisfaction process to foster service professionals, and will establish a customer-oriented service culture through continuous evaluation and management. Risk and Opportunity Materiality Assessment Process and Result STRATEGIC FOCUS Issue 1: Improvement of Product Safety Issue 2: Enhancement of Employee Competence and Welfare Benefits Issue 3: Enhancement of Safety and Health at Workplace Issue 4: Enhancement of Customer Satisfaction through Communication Strengthening Communication with Customers Main Activity Hyundai Elevator operates the Customer Care Center, which operates 24 hours for 365 days, for smooth communication with our customers. HCCC (Hyundai Customer Care Center) located in Icheon Head Office is equipped with specialized counseling staff to provide prompt customer consultation and trouble shooting. Hyundai Customer Care HCCC is providing state-of-the-art customer service utilizing GIS (Geographic Information Center (HCCC) System) primarily in the elevator industry. When customer inquiries or trouble shooting requests are received at HCCC, information and repair history of the customer are sent to the Operating smart phone of an engineer who is in the nearest location of the customer using the 365 days a year geographic information system. This way, Hyundai Elevator provides a prompt response to 24 hours a day the customer's request. Enhancement of Customer Satisfaction Hyundai Real Time Service Hyundai Elevator utilizes various technologies and data to provide differentiated services to our (HRTS) customers and maximize customer satisfaction. Hyundai Real Time Service (HRTS), which utilizes IT technology, is a remote management service that allows HCCC to monitor the status of elevator Live monitoring operations nationwide in real time. In particular, the HRTS provides real-time confirmation of the of elevator number of operations and lifetime of elevators, and anticipates aged parts and parts that need operation replacing, thereby preventing accidents beforehand and saving the time and efforts that customers status should otherwise have spent taking care of such issues. In addition to this, HRTS utilizes sensors attached to elevator parts to identify fault types and provide remote repair services. As a result, 66% of claims filed to the HCCC are remotely repaired, contributing to improving customer satisfaction with the product as well. Hyundai Elevator compiles data on all fault data received at HCCC, such as promptness of response, failure rate, and fault handling time. By doing so, Hyundai Elevator continues to enhance the level of customer satisfaction by more effectively identifying areas that need to be improved. Going forward, Hyundai Elevator will carefully listen to customers' opinions through aggressive customer communication and continue to provide services and products that satisfy our customers. http://www.hyundaielevator.co.kr E-mail inquiry on the corporate homepage STRATEGIC FOCUS Strengthening Quality of Customer Service Hyundai Elevator offers a variety of training and campaigns to enhance customer service quality. In order to provide a high level service, we set up 12 steps of basic code of conduct and employ service lecturers specialized in in-house service to provide service mind training throughout the company. In addition, we are continuing our efforts to improve customer service quality by conducting a Happy Call, a customer satisfaction survey, and '321 customer call response' campaign, a protocol for contact with customers via phone call. Customer Call Reception In 2017, we created a Service Excellence team to set desired service goals and build proper processes. In addition, we plan to carry out continuous and integrated customer satisfaction activities that will lead to customer-oriented service culture by fostering specialized service manpower and conducting service evaluation and management on an ongoing basis. Service Zone Code of Conduct Safety always comes first Start with cheerful greetings Dress like a professional  Provide pre-work description to help customer's understanding ‌ Tend to customer's feeling using apologetic expressions ('cushion language') ‌ Use honorific words to customers to show respect 60 Hyundai Elevator SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 Close up the work with feedback 61 ‌ Respond to customer complaint as quickly as possible  Listen first to the content of complaint calmly before starting talking for help Keep a promise with customers scrupulously Be gentle on the phone with cheerful voice Respond to customer's needs and complaints in a timely manner with a sense  of ownership and responsibility Risk and Opportunity Materiality Assessment Process and Result Issue 1: Improvement of Product Safety Issue 2: Enhancement of Employee Competence and Welfare Benefits Issue 3: Enhancement of Safety and Health at Workplace Issue 4: Enhancement of Customer Satisfaction through Communication Customer Satisfaction Survey Hyundai Elevator conducts customer satisfaction surveys to enhance the level of customer satisfaction. In the survey, we investigate eight factors in five areas: sales, installation, design, quality, and manufacturing. By doing so, we aim to identify the current position of Hyundai Elevator and to find ways to further raise the level of customer satisfaction. In 2016, we began developing applications for mobile satisfaction surveys. The application has implemented from May 2017. Products Diversity & Quality Design Insta es Sal llati On-site responsiveness, on Price, Sales Network Compliance of delivery date Customer Satisfaction Survey Item Qu n ali tio ty uc rod P Low fault rate Place of origin Sales Agency Meeting Hyundai Elevator holds meetings with our sales agents for higher customer satisfaction. Through these meetings, Hyundai Elevator is exploring obstacles that the agents face in sales and action items, thereby identifying customers' true needs and increasing customer satisfaction. In 2016, we held round-table meetings with 47 sales agents nationwide and carried out action items, including improvement of commission payment ratio and product catalog upgrading, so that the agents can streamline their business processes and enhance customer relation management. In 2017, we will hold a discussion tour for sales agencies across the country so as to enhance the level of customer satisfaction through active communication with the sales agents. FINANCIAL AND NON-FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FINANCIAL AND NON-FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 62 HYUNDAI ELEVATOR SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 63 Financial Performance Financial MD&A Non-Financial MD&A 감사보고서 제3자의견서 / 온실가스 검증의견서 GRI & SDG Index UN Global Compact ▼ ▼ Financial Statements Financial MD&A 6 4 p~ 6 7 p 68p~75p ▼ ▼ Non-Financial MD&A Audit Report 7 6 p~ 8 3 p 84p~85p ▼ ▼ Third-party Assurance Statement GHG Emissions Verification Statement 8 6 p~ 8 7 p 88p ▼ ▼ UNGC & SDGs INDEX GRI STANDARDS INDEX 89p 90p~91p FINANCIAL AND NON-FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Consolidated Statement of Financial Position 33rd Period: As of Dec. 31, 2016 32nd Period: As of Dec. 31, 2015 31st Period: As of Dec. 31, 2014 (Unit : KRW) 33rd Period 32nd Period 31st Period Assets Current Assets 1,045,088,587,364 1,014,834,502,764 552,482,729,615 Cash and Cash Equivalents 489,901,998,618 429,503,480,822 126,819,019,126 Short-Term Financial Instruments 8,000,000,000 7,000,000,000 8,000,000,000 Sellable Financial Assets 246,926,398 0 0 Held-to-Maturity Financial Assets 102,380,000 761,050,000 1,513,520,000 Account Receivables 273,895,584,646 245,190,565,952 215,173,610,311 Receivables for Unclaimed Constructions 148,150,114,284 120,170,428,164 99,944,963,660 Other Receivables 9,230,837,729 15,098,136,948 12,410,822,908 Financial Derivatives 3,670,088,428 6,462,345 301,505,182 Inventory 60,135,300,594 33,467,518,829 29,812,734,336 Other Financial Assets 21,283,227,638 144,275,566,689 43,764,461,506 Other Current Assets 28,844,424,664 15,257,571,616 14,064,980,181 Tax Assets 1,627,704,365 4,103,721,399 677,112,405 Non-Current Assets 1,062,469,912,816 757,850,065,725 520,429,333,686 Long-Term Financial Instruments 22,500,000 18,000,000 8,142,970,330 Sellable Financial Assets 10,889,890,121 2,281,289,898 2,559,473,609 Held-to-Maturity Financial Assets 2,539,805,000 2,587,172,153 3,146,540,000 Investment in Affiliated Companies 2,429,704,524 175,722,305,483 257,540,610,213 Financial Derivatives 0 8,190,570,000 0 64 HYUNDAI ELEVATOR SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 65 Investments in Real Estate 13,176,814,227 13,430,343,071 13,539,927,499 Tangible Assets 683,548,019,713 439,159,367,027 120,851,188,402 Intangible Assets 180,470,352,765 48,028,695,243 6,559,741,689 Other Financial Assets 15,369,769,490 17,833,718,389 16,536,924,631 Other Non-Current Assets 14,691,262,221 18,754,812,060 2,690,078,446 Deferred Tax Assets 139,331,794,755 31,843,792,401 88,861,878,867 Total Assets 2,107,558,500,180 1,772,684,568,489 1,072,912,063,301 Financial Statements FINANCIAL MD&A Non-Financial MD&A Audit Report Third-party Assurance Statement GHG Emissions Verification Statement UNGC & SDGs INDEX GRI STANDARDS INDEX 33rd Period 32nd Period 31st Period Liabilities Current Liabilities 719,356,053,884 647,739,460,355 567,195,613,095 Trade Payables 185,614,026,794 150,146,204,852 137,035,681,247 Other Liabilities 103,569,316,743 98,314,121,966 52,395,836,462 Loan Payables and Private Loans 163,388,926,467 162,798,349,819 187,624,041,569 Liabilities for Financial Derivatives 6,545,026,700 18,275,734,852 44,695,181,160 Advances 38,439,959,166 29,251,142,050 22,359,982,529 Liabilities for Over-Claimed Constructions 171,786,404,682 144,091,424,537 98,242,730,751 Estimated Liabilities 14,809,015,544 18,923,209,433 10,168,152,753 Other Financial Liabilities 224,720 661,880 1,099,040 Other Current Liabilities 30,551,273,839 22,842,009,771 13,181,570,522 Tax Liabilities 4,651,879,229 3,096,601,195 1,491,337,062 Non-Current Liabilities 597,125,570,211 483,142,891,044 134,030,841,529 Other Liabilities 214,868,705,783 75,601,972,592 689,500,000 Other Non-Current Liabilities 176,001,168,605 177,964,929,605 0 Loan Payables and Private Loans 182,987,663,935 194,701,862,900 105,402,211,036 Liabilities for Financial Derivatives 0 4,704,406,053 626,359,939 Estimated Liabilities 5,373,319,171 627,308,000 0 Liabilities for Net Defined Benefits 10,847,586,969 23,494,321,794 20,710,602,734 Liabilities ‌ for Long-Term Employee 6,638,200,233 5,890,282,937 5,139,742,038 Salaries Deferred Tax Liabilities 408,925,515 157,807,163 1,462,425,782 Total Liabilities 1,316,481,624,095 1,130,882,351,399 701,226,454,624 Capital Controlling Company’s Share 778,505,635,949 641,517,557,231 370,621,466,824 Capital 123,162,565,000 123,162,565,000 98,162,565,000 Consolidated Capital Surplus 463,768,269,111 469,224,378,554 678,534,277,559 Consolidated Other Capital Components 31,192,972,200 31,192,972,200 0 ‌ Consolidated Accumulated Other (5,535,084,879) (17,633,477,291) (5,409,401,513) Comprehensive Income Consolidated Earned Surplus 165,916,914,517 35,571,118,768 (400,665,974,222) Non-Controlling Share 12,571,240,136 284,659,859 1,064,141,853 Total Capital 791,076,876,085 641,802,217,090 371,685,608,677 Total Liabilities and Capital 2,107,558,500,180 1,772,684,568,489 1,072,912,063,301 FINANCIAL AND NON-FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income 33rd Period Jan. 1, 2016 ~ Dec. 31, 2016 32nd Period Jan. 1, 2015 ~ Dec. 31, 2015 31st Period Jan. 1, 2014 ~ Dec. 31, 2014 (Unit : KRW) 33rd Period 32nd Period 31st Period Sales 1,758,791,900,587 1,448,653,887,563 1,305,580,741,993 Cost of Sales 1,363,643,462,224 1,138,026,321,805 1,047,283,518,957 Gross Income 395,148,438,363 310,627,565,758 258,297,223,036 Selling and Administrative Expenses 213,582,405,005 154,117,053,936 124,534,588,459 Operating Income 181,566,033,358 156,510,511,822 133,762,634,577 Other Income 33,392,463,408 20,381,010,916 18,729,170,525 Other Expense 140,092,218,900 19,444,658,697 15,732,136,113 Equity-Method Income from Investment in (52,711,228,314) (128,550,994,676) 4,848,216,022 Affiliated Companies Income from Disposal of Investment in Affiliated 33,088,867,215 18,253,632,872 504,673,263 Companies Financial Income 12,676,839,346 17,050,270,649 8,987,158,284 Financial Expense 48,997,964,854 30,210,905,028 79,661,327,158 Net Income before Income Taxes (Loss) 18,922,791,259 33,988,867,858 71,438,389,400 Income Taxes (Income) (98,011,589,617) 39,025,499,883 21,018,936,495 Net Income 116,934,380,876 (5,036,632,025) 50,419,452,905 Other Comprehensive Income (After Income 13,559,272,080 (31,044,441,916) (17,339,861,542) Taxes): Items that are not Re-Measurement Element of Net Defined Benefit reclassified as 2,074,539,762 (17,185,482,295) (1,688,151,261) Liabilities Income Share in Affiliated Company's Re-Measurement (354,923,293) (1,726,746,301) (1,239,562,881) Element of Net Defined Benefit Liabilities Items that Income ‌ on Valuation of Sellable Financial subsequently can be 86,820,060 81,417,677 (8,692,877,899) Assets reclassified as Income ‌ Share in Affiliated Company's Other 12,446,748,279 (9,170,320,284) (6,410,531,799) Comprehensive Income 66 Income ‌ on Translation of Overseas (693,912,728) (3,043,310,713) 691,262,298 HYUNDAI ELEVATOR SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 Operations 67 Consolidated Total Comprehensive Income 130,493,652,956 (36,081,073,941) 33,079,591,363 Attribution of Controlling Company Owner 128,700,276,400 (4,050,678,414) 50,465,456,159 Consolidated Net Income Non-Controlling Share (11,765,895,524) (985,953,611) (46,003,254) Attribution of Controlling Company Owner 142,444,188,161 (35,186,982,788) 33,105,424,858 Consolidated Total Comprehensive Income Non-Controlling Share (11,950,535,205) (894,091,153) (25,833,495) Income Per Share on Basic Income Per Share 5,225 (185) 2,711 Controlling Company Owner’s Share Diluted Income Per Share 4,888 (185) 2,711 Financial Statements FINANCIAL MD&A Non-Financial MD&A Audit Report Third-party Assurance Statement GHG Emissions Verification Statement UNGC & SDGs INDEX GRI STANDARDS INDEX Consolidated Statement of Cash Flow 33rd Period Jan. 1, 2016 ~ Dec. 31, 2016 32nd Period Jan. 1, 2015 ~ Dec. 31, 2015 31st Period Jan. 1, 2014 ~ Dec. 31, 2014 (Unit : KRW) 33rd Period 32rd Period 31st Period Cash Flows from Cash Flows from Operation 168,755,985,363 162,020,947,794 164,736,531,896 Operating Receipt of Interests 9,101,355,510 11,956,018,134 3,068,262,269 Activities Payment of Interests (15,453,133,083) (14,398,400,761) (13,130,826,836) Receipt of Dividends 95,506,529 41,053,300 765,218,993 Payment of Corporate Taxes (3,876,252,077) (9,567,676,649) (11,955,912,355) Net Cash Flow from Operating Activities 158,623,462,242 150,051,941,818 143,483,273,967 Cash Flows from Disposal of Held-to-Maturity Financial Assets 761,050,000 1,513,520,000 841,308,070 Investing Activities Disposal of Sellable Financial Assets 68,885,656 172,315,168 19,108,647,257 Disposal of Short-Term Financial Instruments 3,000,000,000 3,608,681,630 0 Disposal of Preemptive Right 0 5,305,851,971 0 Disposal of Investments in Affiliated Companies 28,910 0 1,293,979,737 Withdrawal of Deposits 5,399,265,307 42,422,837,987 164,867,436,333 Disposal of Investments in Real Estate 81,381,273 0 0 Decrease in Financial Derivatives 4,545,193,310 465,732,653 503,270,941 Disposal of Tangible Properties 1,969,516,170 170,064,821 1,301,215,599 Disposal of Intangible Properties 379,962,000 985,454,545 0 Receipt of Governmental Subsidies 179,979,908 1,300,000,000 0 Decrease in Long-Term Loans 448,940,797 169,707,375 0 Decrease in Short-Term Loans 171,927,344,000 0 0 Decrease in Long-Term Financial Instruments 2,000,000,000 5,516,288,700 817,485,120 ‌ Cash Flow from Subsidiary's Acquisition of Net (88,761,009,683) 13,001,249,564 7,840,848,430 Investment Increase in Short-Term Loans (32,700,000,000) (139,200,000,000) 0 Increase in Long-Term Loans (4,447,294,382) 0 (260,051,600) ‌ Acquisition of Short-Term Financial (500,000,000) 0 (3,000,000,000) Instruments ‌ Acquisition of Long-Term Financial 0 0 (8,140,610,561) Instruments ‌Acquisition of Held-to-Maturity Financial Assets (431,640,000) (1,175,055,000) (297,325,000) ‌Acquisition of Sellable Financial Assets 0 0 (501,882,510) ‌Acquisition of Investments in Affiliated Companies 0 (51,366,931,440) 0 Increase in Deposits (5,479,915,982) (4,530,995,108) (979,653,306) ‌Acquisition of Tangible Properties (11,706,552,256) (10,674,947,963) (27,048,855,284) ‌Acquisition of Intangible Properties (17,295,602,353) (7,031,406,124) 0 ‌Decrease in Liabilities from Financial Derivatives (29,093,325,973) (39,247,897,163) (445,591,347,703) Net Cash Flow from Investing Activities 346,206,702 (178,595,528,384) (289,245,534,477) Cash Flows from Increase in Loan Payables and Private Loans 49,656,258,937 357,015,655,520 79,225,812,642 Financing Collection of Insurance 9,295,474,750 0 0 Activities Capital Increase with Consideration 0 275,073,259,006 178,533,969,900 Return of Subsidiary's Capital 0 (200,000) 0 Payment of Loan Payables and Private Loans (159,070,963,844) (298,931,896,656) (100,824,259,873) Payment of Dividends 0 (81,732,096) 0 Net Cash Flow from Financial Activities (100,119,230,157) 333,075,085,774 156,935,522,669 Increase (Decrease) in Cash and Cash Equivalents 58,850,438,787 304,531,499,208 11,173,262,159 Cash and Cash Equivalents at the Beginning of the 429,503,480,822 126,819,019,126 114,983,668,303 Period Impact of Exchange Rate Fluctuation on Cash and 1,548,079,009 (1,847,037,512) 662,088,664 Cash Equivalents Cash and Cash Equivalents at the End of the Period 489,901,998,618 429,503,480,822 126,819,019,126 FINANCIAL AND NON-FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS This Management Discussion and Analysis MD&A was prepared to evaluate the results of operations and financial position of Hyundai Elevator for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2016, as compared with the previous year. Unless otherwise specified, all amounts included in this section are based on consolidated financial statements prepared and audited in accordance with K-IFRS. All amounts are expressed in Korean Won (KRW). In this MD&A, ‘we (the Company)’ means ‘Hyundai Elevator’ unless otherwise stated. The activities, events, or phenomena that the Company expects or anticipates for the future will reflect the Company’s views on the events and financial performance at the time of preparation of such official documents of the year 2016. These forecasts included here are based on various assumptions related to the future business environment, thus those assumptions may eventually turn out to be inaccurate. In addition, these assumptions include risks, uncertainties and other factors that could cause a material difference between the estimates presented in the forward-looking statements and the actual results. Factors that can cause these important differences include, but are not limited to, factors related to internal management of the Company and external factors. The Company has no obligation to publish an amended report that reflects the risks or uncertainties that occur after the date of preparation of the forecast information. In conclusion, we cannot provide assurance that the results, expectations, or anticipated influences forecast by the Company will be realized in the future. Please note that the forecasts presented in this report are prepared as of the date of this report and that the Company will not update these risk factors or forecast information in the future. 1. 2016 in General In 2016, the domestic and global economy was in a period of uncertainty due to the ongoing recession and political and diplomatic instability. The global economy has grown in uncertainty due to Britain’s withdrawal from the EU the possibility of policy changes due to a new President elect in the US, while the domestic economy has also experienced an economic slowdown in general, including falling manufacturing indices and sluggish exports. However, even under such a difficult operating environment, we posted record-high performances in 2016, with KRW 1,744.2 billion in new orders, KRW 1,758.8 billion in sales, and KRW 181.6 billion in operating income. We have also achieved the top position in the domestic installation capacity for 10 consecutive years and in the domestic maintenance market share for the second consecutive year. In addition, we have established a system to grow into a global company through the establishment of a new vision and declaration ceremony for globalization. The year 2016 was a meaningful year in which we laid a firm foundation for market expansion and competency-building in a global arena. In 2016, we established a new overseas corporation in Turkey, promoted a construction project for a new factory in the Chinese corporation, and opened a R&D center in China. 2. Performance by Business Sector 68 Korea Elevator Business HYUNDAI ELEVATOR SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 69 Korea elevator business is in charge of sales for domestic elevators as well as replacement works. In 2016, the elevator sector grew by more than 10% year-on-year. It results from external factors, such as the increase in demands for pre-sale and remodeling of apartment buildings before the apartment loan regulation policy was implemented, in addition to strategic factors, such as increase in demand and an increase in sales of short-term deliveries. Overseas Business Overseas business is in charge of overseas elevator sales. Overseas sales in 2016 grew by more than 10% year-on-year. We believe that our continued efforts in overseas markets have been fruitful despite the negative externalities in the Middle East market due to the drop in oil prices. In addition, the Turkey branch, which was newly established in July 2016, and our strategy to expand customer-oriented sales network in major overseas markets such as Saudi Arabia, Vietnam, Malaysia and the Philippines are believed to be effective as well. With our sales expansion strategies in focus markets, Hyundai Elevator has solidified its overseas sales base in 2016. Financial Statements FINANCIAL MD&A Non-Financial MD&A Audit Report Third-party Assurance Statement GHG Emissions Verification Statement UNGC & SDGs INDEX GRI STANDARDS INDEX Service Business Service business is in charge of maintenance of elevators and related equipment. 2016 service business sales has increased by more than 10% compared to the year before. As of January 2017, the number of elevators with paid maintenance service increased by 11,382 units (10.4%) relative to the previous year to 120,433 units. The number of elevators with full maintenance service also increased by 26.8% relative to January 2016 to 28,520 units, showing our constant growth, and we are continuously striving to increase our market share and sales. Material Handling System Business Material handling system business is in charge of automated material handling system and PSD sales. The growth of the material handling system business has slightly slowed down. In 2016, however, we secured a foothold in the Chinese market through a strategic partnership with Double Star Tire. Following the partnership building, we also secured an order amounting to KRW 79.1 billion for Korea Rail Network Authority platform screen door project. At the same time, we are seeking to improve profitability by further exploring potential markets and by continuing to strengthen our cost competitiveness. Overseas Corporation Hyundai Elevator operates 7 overseas corporations around the world including Asia, Europe and the Americas. In 2016, with the steady exchange rate trend in Southeast Asia and large-scale project orders such as Genting Highland, Muong Thanh, Samsung Display Vietnam V3 plants won by Southeast Asian corporations we achieved remarkable results. 3. Summary Our main revenue comes from manufacturing, sales, installation and maintenance of elevators, escalators, logistics automation equipment, parking facilities and platform screen doors and related components. The following financial highlights is derived from consolidated financial statements audited by the auditors as included in the business report and must be accompanied by the consolidated financial statements Summary of Consolidated Financial Information (Unit: Million in KRW) 2016 2015 2014 Financial Total Assets 2,107,559 1,772,685 1,072,912 Statement Cash and Cash Equivalents 489,902 429,503 126,819 Total Debt 1,316,482 1,130,882 701,226 Total Capital 791,077 641,802 371,686 Financial Total Sales 1,758,792 1,448,654 1,305,581 Statement Operating Income 181,566 156,511 133,763 EBITDA 209,733 165,783 143,502 Operating Expense 1,577,226 1,292,143 1,171,818 Net Income 116,934 (5,037) 50,419 Financial Operating Margin (%) 10.32 10.80 10.25 Information Net Income Margin (%) 6.65 (0.35) 3.86 ROE (%) 18.13 (0.80) 19.05 Debt percentage (%) 166.42 176.20 188.66 Retention Rate (%) 541.02 435.19 283.07 Primary Earning Per Share (won) 5,225 (185) 2,711 Cash Dividend Per Share (won) 500 FINANCIAL AND NON-FINANCIAL STATEMENTS We achieved operating profit of KRW 181.6 billion, up 16% from 2015, thanks to solid sales and profit growth in key areas such as domestic elevator business, service solutions, and overseas business. In addition, Hyundai Merchant Marine was excluded from Hyundai Elevator’s affiliated companies from the second quarter of 2016, as the equity-method losses were concluded with the disposal of Hyundai Merchant Marine Co., Ltd. Thus, the related shares were classified as available-for-sale financial assets. As a result, the net loss of about KRW 5 billion in 2015 was improved by approx. 2,400% to the net profit of KRW 116.9 billion in 2016. The total assets and liabilities of the Company increased by 19% and 16%, respectively, compared to the end of the previous year due to the merger of affiliated companies such as Hyundai Asan. In 2016, total assets amounted to KRW 2.1076 trillion, and total debt amounted to KRW 1.3165 trillion. Debt-to-equity ratio decreased 9.8 percentage points from the end of the previous year due to the termination of derivative contracts and the increase in retained earnings. 4. Sales In 2016, we achieved KRW 1,758.8 billion in sales, an increase of 21% year-on-year. This is because demand for residential elevators has increased due to the revitalization of the construction industry, and the number of paid maintenance units for newly installed elevators and repair requests for obsolete parts has increased steadily. Annual Sales (Unit: 100 Million in KRW) 2016 2015 2014 Total Sales 17,588 14,487 13,056 As of the end of 2016, the total number of elevators installed in Korea is 598,489. Among them, the number of elevators that were installed in 2016 increased by 16.6% relative to the previous year, to 43,998. Korea’s elevator market is ranked 4th to 5th in the world, and it has a high proportion of high-rise buildings such as apartments. With the steady growth of Korean construction industry, demands for new unit installation as well as the maintenance market for existing elevators are quite significant. Hyundai Elevator has developed high value-added products with continuous technological development, maximized the efficiency of production, installation and maintenance process, while strengthening its sales force. Thanks to these efforts, we have maintained our top position for 10 years from 2007 in terms of domestic market share in installation performance, surpassing global manufacturers operating in Korea. 70 Market Share (Source: Korea Elevator Safety Agency) HYUNDAI ELEVATOR SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 71 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 % 41.3 43.3 44.5 45.3 42.1 Sales by Business in 2016 (Consolidated Basis) Item Percentage Machinery Production for General Purpose Elevator, etc. 75.1% Service Elevator maintenance, etc. 16.0% Other Other sales 8.9% Financial Statements FINANCIAL MD&A Non-Financial MD&A Audit Report Third-party Assurance Statement GHG Emissions Verification Statement UNGC & SDGs INDEX GRI STANDARDS INDEX 5. Profitability Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income (Unit: Million in KRW) 2016 2015 2014 Total Sales 1,758,792 1,448,654 1,305,581 Cost of Sales 1,363,643 1,138,026 1,047,284 Gross Sales Income 395,148 310,628 258,297 Selling & Administrative Expenses 213,582 154,117 124,535 Operating Income 181,566 156,511 133,763 Other Income 33,392 20,381 18,729 Other Expenses 140,092 19,445 15,732 Equity-Method Income from Investments (52,711) (128,551) 4,848 in Affiliated Companies Income from Disposal of Investments in 33,089 18,254 505 Affiliated Companies Financial Income 12,677 17,050 8,987 Financial Expense 48,998 30,211 79,661 Net Income Before Income Taxes (Loss) 18,923 33,989 71,438 Income Taxes (Gain) (98,012) 39,025 21,019 Net Income 116,934 (5,037) 50,419 Operating profit from the business in 2016 was KRW 181.6 billion, up 16% from KRW 156.5 billion in 2015, thanks to an increase in COGSto-sales ratio (up by 1.0% relative to the previous year) due to increased sales and cost reduction. Although the COGS-to-sales ratio improved, selling & administrative expenses increased by 38% due to the acquisition of excellent talent, increase in commission fees, and the merger of affiliated businesses. The Company reflected an equity method loss of KRW 52.9 billion in 2015 and a loss on disposal of KRW 87.8 billion of available-for-sale in non-operating expenses. Equity-method losses were attributable to loss on valuation of stocks the Company held in Hyundai Merchant Marine due to its deteriorating earnings, while loss on disposal of available-for-sale securities reflects losses on disposal of assets held by Hyundai Merchant Marine by differential capital reduction. On the other hand, due to the recognition of deferred income tax assets related to the impairment loss of stock holdings of Hyundai Merchant Marine, we recorded net income of KRW 116.9 billion this year. Corporate Tax The Company recognized deferred tax assets of KRW 138.9 billion related to the impairment loss on Hyundai Merchant Marine Co., Ltd. and recognized corporate tax revenue of KRW 98 billion. As a result, we were able to record net profit of KRW 116.9 billion in 2016. (Unit: Million in KRW) 2016 2015 Net Income before Corporate Taxes 18,923 33,989 Deferred Tax Assets (138,923) 31,686 Return of Corporate Taxes 98,012 (39,026) FINANCIAL AND NON-FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Operating Expense In 2016, our operating expenses amounted to KRW 1.5772 trillion, a 22% increase from KRW 1.2921 trillion in 2015. The main reasons for the rise in operating expenses were the effects of the merger of affiliated companies, the rise in employment costs due to an increase in the number of employees, and the increase in commission fees due to the expansion of product sales. (Unit: Million in KRW) 2016 2015 2014 Cost of Sales 1,363,643 1,138,026 1,047,284 Salary 78,525 55,852 45,585 Retirement Benefit 6,825 3,113 2,607 Rent 10,153 5,466 4,267 Insurance 6,278 4,865 3,854 Commission 38,228 30,277 24,248 Computing Expense 8,419 6,913 5,700 Ordinary Development Expense 17,347 15,152 11,332 Other 47,808 32,479 26,941 Total Operating Expenses 1,577,226 1,292,143 1,171,818 6. Financial Structure Current Asset In 2016, our current assets increased by 3% from 2015 to KRW 1,045 billion. This is because cash and cash equivalents increased by 14% compared to the previous year, and account receivables and receivables for unclaimed constructions increased by 12% and 23%, 72 respectively, due to the effect of business combination of affiliated companies. In addition, inventories increased by about 80% compared HYUNDAI ELEVATOR SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 to the previous year. Other financial assets decreased by 85% from the previous year due to the decrease in short-term loans. 73 (Unit: Million in KRW) 2016 2015 2014 Cash and Cash Equivalents 489,902 429,503 126,819 Account Receivables & Other Trade 431,276 380,459 327,529 Receivables Inventory 60,135 33,468 29,813 Other Current Assets 63,776 171,405 68,322 Total Current Asset 1,045,089 1,014,835 552,483 Financial Statements FINANCIAL MD&A Non-Financial MD&A Audit Report Third-party Assurance Statement GHG Emissions Verification Statement UNGC & SDGs INDEX GRI STANDARDS INDEX Non-Current Asset In 2016, our non-current assets increased by 40% from 2015 to KRW 1,062.4 billion. Tangible assets (up 56% from the previous year) and intangible assets (up 276% from the previous year) increased due to the effect of the business combination of affiliated companies as we recognized deferred income tax assets (KRW 139.3 billion) related to the impairment loss of Hyundai Merchant Marine. (Unit: Million in KRW) 2016 2015 2014 Investment in Affiliated Companies 2,430 175,722 257,541 Tangible Asset 683,548 439,159 120,851 Intangible Asset 180,470 48,029 6,560 Other 196,022 94,940 135,477 Total Non-Current Asset 1,062,470 757,850 520,429 Liabilities In 2016, our liabilities increased by 16% from 2015 to KRW 1.3164 trillion. This is because of the increase in borrowings and debentures as a result of the affiliate business combination. On the other hand, debt-to-equity ratio decreased 9.8 percentage points from the end of the previous year, as capital stock growth rate surpassed debt growth rate due to the increase in consolidated retained earnings. (Unit: Million in KRW) 2016 2015 2014 Current Liabilities 719,356 647,739 567,195 Non-Current Liabilities 597,126 483,143 134,031 Total Liabilities 1,316,482 1,130,882 701,226 Capital Retained earnings amounted to KRW 165.9 billion as of December 31, 2016, which was KRW 35.6 billion as of December 31, 2015. Therefore, the total amount of our capital, which was KRW 641.8 billion as of the end of 2015, increased 23% to KRW 791.1 billion as of the end of 2016. (Unit: Million in KRW) 2016 2015 2014 Capital 123,163 123,163 98,163 Capital Surplus 463,768 469,224 678,534 Other Capital Components 31,193 31,193 Accumulated Other Comprehensive (5,535) (17,633) (5,409) Income Earned Surplus (Deficit) 165,917 35,571 (400,666) [Controlling Company’s Share] 778,506 641,517 370,622 [Non-Controlling Share] 12,571 285 1,064 Total Capital 791,077 641,802 371,686 FINANCIAL AND NON-FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 7. Domestic Operation Despite unfavorable economic conditions, Hyundai Elevator has achieved record highs in sales every year, achieving KRW 1.3056 trillion in 2014, KRW 1.4487 trillion in 2015, and KRW 1.7588 trillion in 2016. In August 2014, we installed the fastest elevator in Korea (Busan International Financial Center, 600mpm). In April 2015, we installed the double deck elevator (Seoul Yongsan LG U+ new building), which was the first case in Korea to operate two elevators at the same time. In May 2015, we completed the construction of the longest escalator in Korea (Daegu Metropolitan Subway Line No. 3 Shinnam Station, length: 57m), winning all new records in domestic elevator sectors. In March 2015, the Company ranked first in the paid maintenance market in Korea, proving its competitiveness in the service sector as well as its products. Among others, elevator maintenance is a very important market for continuous profit generation. Hyundai Elevator has surpassed 120,000 units for paid maintenance sector in 2016, securing the top position for the second consecutive year. We have established a firm foundation for the elevator maintenance market with aggressive market penetration strategy. Furthermore, we have developed ‘Green Elevator’ which realizes green concept by minimizing carbon emissions from energy efficiency improvement, material saving and recycling, and use of environmentally friendly materials. We are also strengthening sales of highvalue-added products and key components that prevent environmental pollution in advance such as LOWATT, a power regenerative inverter that can reduce power consumption by up to 60%. Recently, we have been showing new technologies that have not been tried in other companies and getting good response from consumers. The cutting edge technologies that we introduced in our products include ultra-large multi-vision where the 3D animation screen changes according to the floors, streamlined ergonomic interior design LED display floor sensor, and handwriting input type touch button. In addition, we are actively responding to the short-term delivery market with the launch of ready-made elevators that satisfy the customers’ changing needs. HRTS (Hyundai Real Time Service), the most advanced remote management service provides unique and superb services to our customers. 8. Overseas Operations Hyundai Elevator, which celebrated its 33rd anniversary in 2017, has strengthened international competitiveness through entering overseas markets such as China, Brazil, Southeast Asia, and the United States, we are emerging as a specialized elevator brand for logistics automation equipment and parking facilities in overseas markets. In particular, we established a Turkish subsidiary in 2016 to 74 secure a firm base for entry into the European market. HYUNDAI ELEVATOR SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 75 As a result of steady efforts to expand our brand image since the early 2000s when Hyundai Elevator first advanced into Iraq, we have won large projects such as the Bismarck New City Project in Iraq in 2014 in which involved 1,668 elevator orders, and the project to install all the elevators for the Water Garden, the largest shopping mall in the Turkish International Financial Center in 2015. In March 2016, by winning the Genting Highland, the only casino resort and the largest multi-entertainment facility in Malaysia, our position in overseas market has become stronger. In addition, we have also won several other large-scale projects, including large-scale medical complex project (SFMC) project in Riyadh, led by Saudi Arabian government, and Mashhad Urban Railway Line 2 project in Iran. Financial Statements FINANCIAL MD&A Non-Financial MD&A Audit Report Third-party Assurance Statement GHG Emissions Verification Statement UNGC & SDGs INDEX GRI STANDARDS INDEX 9. 2017 Plan In 2017, we plan to establish a new factory in China as part of our strategy to expand our business in China in order to secure stable source of profits with expanded overseas operation. In particular, we have set three key business strategies as we mark the first year to make a leap forward Global Top 7: accelerating globalization, strengthening dominance in domestic market, and securing foundation for sustainable growth. We will accelerate globalization strategies through success in Next Home Market such as China, India and Turkey and opening up new markets, while expanding our market share in domestic market and increasing the number of paid services to 130,000 units by strengthening our dominance in the domestic elevator industry. We plan to strengthen R&D capabilities, secure technological competitiveness, and expedite the growth of the service sector to lay the foundations for sustained growth in our future. To this end, we are actively tapping into the maintenance market by further strengthening our position on the back of the increased installed capacity, new installed capacity, and the technological prowess. In 2017, we set our sales target at KRW 1.7 trillion*, striving to achieve our management goals and sustainable growth. The business environment in 2017 is expected to be full of unfavorable elements; the uncertainties in overseas economies are expected to last due to the anticipated capital hemorrhage in emerging economies with potential interest rate hike in the U.S., and the real estate market in China is slowing down. Devaluation of local currencies in several countries can also be a concern. Despite such difficult business environment ahead, Hyundai Elevator employees will continue their active sales activities to maximize the company’s growth and values for our shareholders. Furthermore, we will do our best to realize a sustainable future with our stakeholders based on external growth and profit improvement. (*Separate Basis) FINANCIAL AND NON-FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NON-FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS 1. Human Capital Composition of Employees 2014 2015 2016 Male 1,509 1,701 1,903 Gender Female 158 172 203 Administrative 755 852 923 Manufacturing/Technical 726 806 893 Occupational Group Research 66 89 91 Other 120 126 199 Regular 1,547 1,747 1,907 Type of Employment Contractual 120 126 199 High School Graduate 605 631 801 Diversity Handicapped 22 22 22 Patriots & Veterans 18 18 18 30 or less 447 531 594 31 to 40 483 551 644 Age 41 to 50 518 547 563 51 or more 219 244 305 Ever since it declared its vision “Go Global” in April 2016, Hyundai Elevator has been striving to attract the best and brightest both in domestic and overseas markets to strengthen its global business capabilities. As of the end of 2016, a total of 3,470 people (2,100 in Korea and 1,370 overseas) are working. We will continue to attract more talent as we expand our overseas business operation going forward. As of December 2016, Hyundai Elevator has a total of 2,106 employees in Korea, including 51.9% of field workers and office workers, and 48.1% of technical workers. Recruiting & Resignation 2014 2015 2016 Male 289 330 317 New Female 31 28 39 Resignation Rate 5.6% 8.9% 5.6% 76 HYUNDAI ELEVATOR SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 Number of Resigned 93 166 118 77 Employees Hyundai Elevator has actively participated in job sharing policy led by the Korean Number of Employees 2,106 government, contributing to resolving the youth unemployment problem. The number of employees increased from 1,230 in 2011 to 2,106 in 2016, a 1.7-fold increase in employment. Hyundai Elevator is continuously striving to secure global talent to expand overseas business as well. In accordance with our core value of Service Excellence, we are making efforts to 1,230 increase service employees. We are also striving to recruit excellent researchers to secure future growth engines through various programs, including industry-university cooperation 71.2% Increase programs, industry-university R&D scholarship programs, or recruiting in connection with the establishment of corporations or business plans of overseas subsidiaries. 2011 2016 Financial Statements FINANCIAL MD&A Non-Financial MD&A Audit Report Third-party Assurance Statement GHG Emissions Verification Statement UNGC & SDGs INDEX GRI STANDARDS INDEX There is no discrimination in recruiting process based on gender in Hyundai Elevator. We are actively promoting recruiting plans to attract excellent minds. In addition, we have established a system through which the local talent can be actively hired in collaboration with the recruiting centers of leading regional universities and colleges. Among the 356 employees employed in 2016, 18 female workers, 97 college graduates, and 45 high school graduates were employed through this local talent recruiting system. Hyundai Elevator offers opportunities to explore and build your career through a variety of workplace experiences. We have a wide range of programs to raise career awareness and professionalism so that employees can grow the ability to design their career that suits for their aptitude. Retirement Pension System (Unit: 100 Million in KRW) 2014 2015 2016 Retirement Pension 498 804 1,127 Hyundai Elevator implements a defined benefit (DB) retirement pension system in accordance with the Employee Retirement Benefit Security Act. In addition, the wage peak system has been introduced since 2017, so that the applicable employees can use it as a preparatory period for retirement and a training period for their successor. (Defined Contribution (DC) is also in operation) Maternity Leave & Return 2014 2015 2016 Number of Employees on Maternity Leave (Person) 5 8 10 Number of Employees who Returned from Maternity 2 5 5 Leave (Person) Return Rate (%) 40% 63% 50% Hyundai Elevator supports employees so that pregnancy, childbirth, and childcare would not negatively affect their career. We are encouraging employees to use diverse supportive systems, including preand post-childcare leave, ordinary childcare leave and the shortening work system during pregnancy. In 2016, seven employees used the parental leave and four returned to work from the leave. In addition, Hyundai Elevator’s headquarters and the Seoul Office have maternity protection rooms (nursing rooms). As such, we are striving to make favorable working environment for female workers. Hyundai Elevator is constantly expanding the employment of female workers and striving to nurture them as managers. In 2016, nine out of 223 female employees were selected as key managers. Although the employment of women is inevitably limited due to the nature of manufacturing and maintenance work for machinery/electrical equipment, we posted 3.57% in female manage ratio in ‘Active Employment Improvement Measures’ in a survey conducted by the Ministry of Employment and Labor. The ratio of female workers wage to that of male workers is about 51%. In order to further reduce this gap, we are trying to nurture female professionals and managers in an ongoing basis. Labor-Management Relationship 2014 2015 2016 Labor Union Membership Rate 71.5% 68.6% 65.1% * The labor union membership rate decreased slightly due to the increase in the number of office workers compared to the technical workers Based on its perception of labor-management cooperation and mutual growth as the best competitiveness, Hyundai Elevator pursues ‘Labor-management relations for mutual growth’, ‘Advanced labor-management relation based on honesty and trust’, and ‘Active communication between the labor union and management.’ Based on the Article 14 of the Labor Collective Agreement, Hyundai Elevator has created a culture that enables labor and management to co-exist with each other by providing a channel for notifying labor and management about important matters of the company, including changes in position and work place of labor union officers, opening and closing of the employment rules, opening and closing of the union code and protocol, and appointment/dismissal/relocation of union officers. Hyundai Elevator plans to grow by maintaining good management performance and secure conditions through win-win cooperation between labor and management. FINANCIAL AND NON-FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2. Social Capital Selection of Business Partners Hyundai Elevator selects new business partners through transparent and objective procedures. Companies wishing to start a new business relation can apply for a new transaction at any time through our website. We select partners by comprehensively evaluating financial and non-financial factors through the 1st assessment (self-assessments of the applicant) and 2nd PQ Assessment.* * PQ Assessment Pre-qualification process conducted for partner companies that include financial/technical evaluation as well as non-financial Go to application for new evaluation for aspects of environment and safety. business partner registration Business Partner Selecting Process Developing Web Banner (Partner Registration) NO New Partners and Recommendations Re-evaluation According to re-evaluation standards SelfYES YES Check Sheet Assessment Screening Results Confirmation of 1st Screening PQ Screening Distribution Results Discussion Screening Results NO Partner Elimination Department Head SelfResults Confirmation Assessment Win-Win Growth with Business Partners Result of Win-Win Growth Strategy Division 2014 2015 2016 Number of Partners which Received Financial Supports 149 178 307 Amount of Financial Support (Hundred Million in KRW) 59 41 84.6 78 Financial Support HYUNDAI ELEVATOR SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 Cash (Cash Equivalents) Payment Ratio (%) 100 100 100 79 Number of Payments (Times) 1 to 2 1 to 2 1 to 2 Number of Technical Development Supports (Case) 1,546 1,778 1,589 Technical Support/ Protection Number of Technical Protection Supports (Case) 3 4 5 Educational Support (Person) 4,169 7,367 5,824 Support for Education / HR / Recruitment Number of Employees Recruited at Partner's Job Expo 0 4 2 Hyundai Elevator strives to build a healthy corporate ecosystem through mutual growth with its partners and to strengthen the industrial competitiveness. Collaborating with its partner companies, Hyundai Elevator is making vigorous efforts to reduce costs, improve processes, enhance quality, and develop innovative parts and new products. Financial Statements FINANCIAL MD&A Non-Financial MD&A Audit Report Third-party Assurance Statement GHG Emissions Verification Statement UNGC & SDGs INDEX GRI STANDARDS INDEX The achievements of innovative activities are shared with partner companies through prearranged methods such as cash compensation, long-term contracts, unit price adjustments, and joint patent applications, so that Hyundai Elevator and the partner companies can winwin. From 2015, we have also operated multilateral performance-sharing system* by expanding the scope of the coverage for performance sharing from our second-tier partners. * ‌The Multilateral Performance Sharing System is a system in which a contracting entity and a primary and a secondary supplier enter into a one-to-one or one-to-many contract, so that they can share the achievements created in the joint project through a pre-contracted method. Key Performance in Multilateral Performance Sharing System Performance Sharing Project Name HDEL Primary Primary Supplier Supplier Secondary Supplier Woojin Electric/ Changdai Industry Cost reduction by changing the thickness of SUS board plate 3-year contract 3-year contract Compensation by Daejoo ENT/ Dain NGI Cost reduction by changing weight case welding method 3-year contract Cash Cost reduction through improvement of transformer structure in Woojin Electric/ Liftregen 3-year contract 3-year contract control panel Vision Motors/ Daeseong Stator assy productivity improvement 2-year contract 3-year contract Cost reduction through development and introduction of new design Cheil Steel/ SDK 3-year contract 3-year contract material (GLAM) Business Partner Meeting Hyundai Elevator holds a meeting with partner companies to promote mutual growth with them. In the meeting held in the first half of 2016, we provided awards to outstanding suppliers and shared important changes in major systems and regulations. Through Q&A session, active communication and exchange of opinions were observed between the HDEL and partner companies. Going forward, Hyundai Elevator will continue to hold the meetings with partner companies twice a year to listen to the difficulties of them and to lay the groundwork for continuous mutual growth in the future. Fair Trade Fair Trade Agreement with Major Business Partners 2014 2015 2016 Total Amount of Purchase of Major 568,987 642,440 714,885 Business Partners (Million in KRW) Number of Contractual Business 262 267 274 Partners Through fair trade agreements with our partners, Hyundai Elevator pledges to comply with fair trade practice and to conduct competitiveness-building activities. We are also continuing our efforts to discuss and improve important issues through the meetings with partner companies. Coexisting Collaboration Fair Contracts Compliance Efforts Support financial support, technology Contract process, contract Law violation prevention/ support, HR support, training contents, fair Post verification system and education, implementation implementation welfare, etc. process Fair trade compliance and activities to enhance competitiveness Fair Trade Agreement FINANCIAL AND NON-FINANCIAL STATEMENTS In addition, Hyundai Elevator follows four major guidelines in fair subcontracting transactions and uses standard subcontracting contract forms to build a fair subcontracting relationship with our partner companies. Details of the guidelines are posted on the company website (http://www.hyundaielevator.co.kr) so that not only HDEL employees but also those hired by our partners can always refer to the guidelines. Coexisting collaboration Business partner selection and contracting guideline operation guideline 4 Guidelines for Subcontracting Subcontracting transactions Regulation on the Operation of documentation and preservation the Shared Growth Committee guideline In recognition of our achievement in establishing fair trade order and spreading the culture of cooperation and shared growth, Hyundai Elevator received a certificate from the Chair of Fair Trade Commission in December 2016. In addition, we received a rating of Excellent in the “2015 Shared Growth Index” announced by Korea Commission for Corporate Partnership in 2016. Social Contribution Key Social Contribution Index 2014 2015 2016 Participants 3,836 4,358 4,978 Activities 151 197 255 Hours 18,481 22,421 28,215 Hours Per Person 11.9 12.8 13.5 80 HYUNDAI ELEVATOR SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 Donation (Million in KRW) 350.5 60.7 36.8* 81 Expense (Million in KRW) 21.9 47.2 47.8 * ‌During the year (2016), the amount of donations decreased while the number of participants and activities increased, as we focused more on increasing man-hour with activities such as talent donation activities, community cleaning campaigns, and volunteer work at welfare facility than the monetary donation. Under the slogan of “To be a company that grows by sharing,” Hyundai Elevator pursues sustainable growth by seeking continuous communication with community and returning the benefits we have received, as a responsible member of our society. In particular, Hyundai Elevator is planning and conducting strategic social contribution activities related to ‘safety’, which is a keyword for us considering the characteristics of our business. Furthermore, we are also engaged in various social contribution activities such as community support, scholarship projects, and talent donation. Moreover, social contribution activities that are promoted through our newsletter, donation, sharing and cultural education, Hyundai Elevator strives to address not only corporate issues but also social, political and environmental issues, thereby contributing to sustainable management. Financial Statements FINANCIAL MD&A Non-Financial MD&A Audit Report Third-party Assurance Statement GHG Emissions Verification Statement UNGC & SDGs INDEX GRI STANDARDS INDEX Major Social Contribution Activities Program Strategic Social Contribution Safe Use of Elevator Campaign, Elevator Safety Training for Children, 119 Rescue Drill for Trapped Incident One branch for one village support, sponsorship for child welfare facility, voluntary work for welfare facilities in local Support for Local Community community Donation & Sponsorship Matching Grant Fund Scholarship Project, Last digit (salary) donation (briquettes, rice, school uniforms support) Talent Donation House repair, photo clubs talent donation activities Reward Volunteer festivals and year-end awards for voluntary work, departments and individuals, clubs Medicine & Health Blood donation campaign 3. Environmental Capital Integrated Environment Management System Hyundai Elevator systematically manages environmental facility operation, air pollutant emission, and water and power consumption through our integrated environmental management system. Going forward, we plan to upgrade the system so that chemical handling and management can be also conducted within the system. Air Pollutant Control In our facilities, air pollutants sources are minimized through pollution prevention facilities before being discharged into the atmosphere. Although major pollutants are classified as dust, we also make efforts to reduce them by conducting annual maintenance of preventive facilities and replacing the consumables according to the statutory replacement period. (Unit: kg) 2014 2015 2016 Air Pollutant (Dust) 4,173 3,961 4,140 Raw Material Procurement (Unit: Million in KRW) 2014 2015 2016 Total 580,575 663,799 580,305 Iron Plate & Shaped Steel 28,053 28,413 32,263 Traction Machine 38,872 39,974 44,451 Casting 13,755 18,332 19,216 Control Panel 47,996 57,712 61,118 Guide Rail 35,607 42,721 44,925 Cable 21,588 23,215 23,603 Wire Rope 11,517 15,299 26,759 Step & Chain 10,057 12,577 12,500 Drive Unit 2,938 6,575 7,275 Platform Hatch Part 100,730 114,543 149,272 Other 269,462 304,438 158,923 FINANCIAL AND NON-FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Water Resource Management Hyundai Elevator operates a zero waste water treatment system that does not discharge even a small amount of wastewater by evaporating it through physical and chemical primary treatment and final treatment using filter system. Moreover, we have operated one oil-water separating unit that processes the waste oil generated from the cutting process to prevent direct discharge of such highly concentrated wastewater into the environment. Through active investments in various environment facilities, we are working to maintain efficient wastewater management system. (Unit: Thousand Ton) 2014 2015 2016 Total Water Resource Consumption 41.2 36.3 36.4 Underground Water 39.1 28.6 27.7 Industrial Water 2.1 7.7 8.7 Total Water Recycling 3.4 3.4 3.4 Unit Consumption* 3.16 2.51 2.07 Unit Reduction Rate -2.8% -20.6% -17.4% * (Consumption * 1000 / Sales (Hundred Million in KRW)) (Unit: Ton) 2014 2015 2016 Amount of Wastewater 2,785 2,510 3,065 Harmful Chemical Substance Control Hazardous chemicals used in the production process of Hyundai Elevator are managed through a dedicated chemical substance management processes such as chemical inventory, impact assessment, etc. in all processes, from receipt to use, emission and disposal stages. We identify and manage the amount of chemical substances emitted during the use process via chemical substance emission and flow inspection. By constantly checking and conducting preventive activities, we are doing our best to prevent leakage accidents in advance. (Unit: Ton) 2014 2015 2016 Total Hazardous Chemicals Usage 40 32.17 35.13 Waste Disposal Hyundai Elevator applies the Waste Manifest System Network to all processes such as the generation, transportation and disposal of waste generated during production, and handle them in one system on-line. In addition, we carry out environmental education such as separate collection and storage inspection status to those in charge of handling and discharging wastes every year in order to secure proper waste treatment system from the generation stage. (Unit: Ton) 2014 2015 2016 82 Total Waste Discharge Amount 394 422 391 HYUNDAI ELEVATOR SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 Reclamation 21 19 17 83 Incineration 225 255 235 Recycling 101 107 104 Designated Waste 47 40 34 Waste Reduction Rate -5.9% -15.4% -14.2% Total By-Products 904 745 768 Scrap Metal 520 425 366 Chip 373 315 395 SUS 11 5 7 Amount of Recycling 904 745 768 Recycling Rate (%) 100 100 100 Financial Statements FINANCIAL MD&A Non-Financial MD&A Audit Report Third-party Assurance Statement GHG Emissions Verification Statement UNGC & SDGs INDEX GRI STANDARDS INDEX Energy Saving Hyundai Elevator is engaged in diverse activities to minimize energy consumption in each production process. The energy use of Hyundai Elevator is mainly occupied by electricity and LNG. In order to save more energy, we replaced lamps in Factory 3 from metal highlights (250w) to LED (100w) in 2016, saving 80,496kw of energy per year. In the future, we plan to implement a smart factory system in the production process to further increase energy efficiency. 2014 2015 2016 Total Energy Consumption (TJ) 157 159 169 Electricity (kWh) 11,785,962 11,640,790 12,144,219 Gas (Nm3) 875,078 881,699 977,743 Fuel (ℓ) 157,883 253,921 281,094 Unit Consumption* 12.01 11.01 9.61 Unit Reduction Rate -22.9% -8.3% -12.7% * (Consumption * 1000 / Sales (Hundred Million in KRW)) GHG Emission Hyundai Elevator calculated the greenhouse gas emissions of Incheon Head Office, distribution centers, and Seoul Office. In 2016, greenhouse gas emissions in those facilities were 11,176 tCO2eq which is 11.7% lower than last year. (Unit: tCO2eq) 2014 2015 2016 Total GHG Emission 10,192 10,431 11,176 Scope 1 2,311 2,587 2,833 Scope 2 7,582 7,527 7,943 Scope 3 299 318 400 Unit Consumption* 0.78 0.72 0.64 Unit Reduction Rate -22.0% -7.8% -11.7% * (Emission / Sales (Hundred Million in KRW)) The difference from last years numbers are due to the changes in GHG emission scope. Environmental Investment Hyundai Elevator invests in environment every year for efficient maintenance and operation of its environmental facilities. Through these efforts, we will ensure that environmental management activities such as environmental protection and waste reduction at our workplaces are effectively evaluated. (Unit: Million in KRW) 2014 2015 2016 Amount of Environmental Operation 264 553 502 Amount of Environmental Investment 0 0 80 Global Carbon Management Certification For the first time in elevator industry, Hyundai Elevator acquires global carbon management certification. Global Carbon Management Certification is the world’s most prestigious carbon management certification system developed by Carbon Trust, a nonprofit corporation founded in 2001 by the British government in an effort to combat climate change. It is expected that the improved reliability with stakeholders through certification and the use of certification logo in global business will contribute to making the eco-friendliness of Hyundai Elevator more distinctive. Level A in the Environment Section of ESG Assessment Hyundai Elevator was awarded level A from the Korea Corporate Governance Service(KCGS) on environment section of the ESG Assessment. This indicates that Hyundai Elevator has the proper system in accordance with the standards of KCGS and therefore is less likely to be a threat to shareholder value regarding environmental risks. HDEL will continue to reach for higher levels. FINANCIAL AND NON-FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AUDIT REPORT FROM INDEPENDENT AUDITOR To. Hyundai Elevator’s Shareholders and Board of Directors We have audited the accompanying consolidated financial statements of Hyundai Elevator Co., Ltd. and its subsidiaries. The consolidated financial statements include the consolidated statement of financial position as of December 31, 2016 and December 31, 2015, the consolidated statement of comprehensive income, the consolidated statement of changes in equity and the consolidated statement of cash flows ending on the same date as above, as well as a summary of the meaningful accounting policies and other descriptive information. Management’s Responsibility for Consolidated Financial Statement Management of Hyundai Elevator is responsible for the preparation and fair presentation of these consolidated financial statements in accordance with K-IFRS and internal controls that are executed to prepare consolidated financial statements free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. Auditor’s Responsibility Our responsibility as an independent auditor is to express an opinion on these consolidated financial statements based on our audit. We conducted our audits in accordance with auditing standards of the Republic of Korea. Those standards require that we plan and perform our audit in compliance with ethical requirements to obtain reasonable assurance about whether these consolidated financial statements are free from material misstatement. An audit includes performing the procedures to obtain audit evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the consolidated financial statements. The procedure selected in audit processes depends on the auditor’s judgment, such as an assessment of the risk of material misstatement in the consolidated financial statements due to fraud or error. When evaluating those risks, the auditor considers internal control relevant to the preparation of the consolidated financial statements and fair presentation in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate to the circumstances. However, this is not intended to express an opinion on the effectiveness of internal controls. An audit also includes assessment of the adequacy of the accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates derived by management, in addition to the evaluation of the overall presentation of the consolidated financial statements. We believe that the audit evidence we obtained is sufficient and appropriate as evidence for an audit opinion. Auditor’s Opinion We believe that the financial statements fairly present and reflect the financial position of Hyundai Elevator Co., Ltd. as of December 31, 2016 and December 31, 2015, and the financial performance and cash flows for the two reporting periods ending on the above dates in accordance with K-IFRS from the perspective of materiality. Emphasis Although this section does not have an impact on the audit opinion, the users of this audit report need to pay attention to the following 84 matters. HYUNDAI ELEVATOR SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 85 Auditor’s emphasis on key audit items for order-based industry, etc. The key audit items for order-based industry are selected as meaningful items during the audit process of the entity’s consolidated financial statements based on the expert judgment of the auditor and communication with the governing body in accordance with the “Audit Practice Guideline 2016-1”. These matters are discussed from the perspective of auditing the entire consolidated financial statements, and we do not provide separate opinions on these matters. We have reflected the results of the auditing process performed on the following key audit items in forming the audit opinion on the consolidated financial statements of Hyundai Elevator Co., Ltd. and its subsidiaries. Financial Statements FINANCIAL MD&A Non-Financial MD&A Audit Report Third-party Assurance Statement GHG Emissions Verification Statement UNGC & SDGs INDEX GRI STANDARDS INDEX A. General The common items that can be applied to the order-based industry audit items described in this audit report are as follows. As discussed in Note 2, the Company recognizes the contract revenues and contract costs as revenue and expenses, respectively, based on the progress of the contract activity as of the end of the reporting period, if the Company can make reliable estimates of the results of construction contracts. Progress of the contract activities are measured as a rate by dividing cumulative contract costs incurred for the construction work performed by the estimated total contract costs, excluding contract costs that cannot reflect the progress stage. If the cumulative amount of the cost plus any recognized gain (or loss) exceeds the progress bill, the amount is presented as unbilled construction receivables; if the amount of the proceeds exceeds the cumulative amount of the cost plus any recognized gain (or loss), the amount is presented as over-claimed construction liabilities. B. Uncertainty in total contract cost estimate As explained in Note 23, the total contract cost is estimated based on estimates of material cost, labor cost, production period and so on. If the total contract cost estimate is increased by 5%, the net income before income taxes is reduced by KRW 58.315 million. We identified the uncertainty of the Company’s total contract cost estimate as a significant risk, taking into account the effect of changes in estimates on profit or loss for the current term. As of the end of the current term, the following audit procedures have been performed on the effect of uncertainty of the estimated total contract cost of the Company on the consolidated financial statements. •Analytical review of changes in total contract costs by reporting period •‌Asking questions about the cause of the change and verifying relevant evidence for projects with significant fluctuations in total contract costs, •Asking questions and verifying relevant evidence for projects with significant fluctuations in provision for construction losses •‌Asking questions and verifying relevant evidence to find out causes for projects with significant changes between the estimated cost rate and the actual cost rate in similar project •‌Identifying the cause of the difference and verifying the relevant evidence for the terminated project with a significant difference between the actual cost rate and the estimated cost rate. •Review on internal control where the total contract cost was reviewed and approved C. Estimation of construction progress As described in Note 23, the estimated change in total contract costs for the current term is KRW 417 million and the cumulative contract cost is KRW 1,193.4 million. We identified the Company’s estimation of construction progress rate as a significant risk, taking into account the possibility of fluctuations in the construction costs and the uncertainty in the total contract cost estimates. The following audit procedures were performed with respect to total contract costs and cumulative contract cost amounts that affect the construction progress rate. •Reviewing the internal controls related to the aggregation and allocation of contract costs •Recalculating the progress of the construction for the project which proceeded in the current term •‌Selecting the sample among input costs incurred during the term, and examining the occurrence of the input cost, the accuracy of the amount, and the appropriateness of the cost attribution. 92, Hangang-daero, Yongsan-gu, Seoul, Republic of Korea Samil Pricewaterhouse Coopers Young-Sik Kim March 16, 2017 This report is effective as of the date of preparation of this audit report (March 16, 2017) Accordingly, there may be cases that may have a material impact on the accompanying consolidated financial statements of the Company during the period from the date of preparation of this Report to the point when it becomes available. In this case, there may be alterations to this Audit Report. FINANCIAL AND NON-FINANCIAL STATEMENTS THIRD-PARTY ASSURANCE STATEMENT Dear Hyundai Elevator Management and Stakeholders Introduction The Korean Standards Association (“KSA”) was commissioned by Hyundai Elevator to perform a third-party Assurance Engagement of ‘Hyundai Elevator 2017 Integrated Sustainability Report’ (the “Report”). KSA presents independent opinions as follows as a result of feasibility of the data contained in this Report. Hyundai Elevator has sole responsibility for content and performance contained in this Report. Independence As an independent assurance agency, KSA does not have any kinds of commercial interest in businesses of Hyundai Elevator apart from undertaking a third-party assurance on the Report. We have no other contract with Hyundai Elevator that may undermine credibility and integrity as an independent assurance agency. Assurance Standards and Level This Assurance Engagement followed the AA1000AS (2008) assurance standards to provide Moderate Level assurance. We checked the three principles of inclusivity, materiality, and responsiveness in combination with information credibility of the Report. We also verified whether the Report content was created in accordance with the GRI Standards Core Option. Assurance Type, Scope and Limitations We performed a Type 2 Assurance Engagement in accordance with AA1000AS. This implies that we verified the accuracy and quality of the statements made by Hyundai Elevator and the sustainability performance data included in this Report. The scope of verification is a period from Jan 1, 2016 to Dec 31, 2016, and depending on the content, includes some information for the first half of 2017. The results and reporting practices of Hyundai Elevator’s related companies, overseas branches, suppliers, partners, and third parties, excluding the Hyundai Elevator’s head office and business sites stated in the report, are not included in the scope of this verification. The scope of this Assurance Engagement primarily includes the systems and initiatives undertaken by Hyundai Elevator including its sustainability management policies, goals, projects, standards and performance during the reporting period defined in the Report. While the company’s environmental and social data as well as financial data was verified, the scope of review concerning stakeholder engagement was limited to the materiality test process. Assurance Methodology We used the following methods to gather information, documents and evidence with respect to the assurance scope. •‌A  nalysis of articles related to Hyundai Elevator’s sustainability management published by domestic media outlets over the last three years 86 •Analysis of issues discussed with Hyundai Elevator regarding the company’s reporting issues HYUNDAI ELEVATOR SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 •‌H  yundai Elevator headquarter/Interview with employees in charge of sustainability management and managers of respective issues 87 •Verification of management system and process to improve achievement in sustainability management and to prepare the Report •Review of the consistency between the financial performance data and the company’s audit report/publicly announced data •Examination of internal documents and basic materials Assurance Results and Opinions KSA reviewed the draft version of this Report to present our opinions as an assurance provider. Modifications were made of the Report content if deemed necessary. We were not aware of any significant errors or inappropriate descriptions in this Report as a result of our Assurance Engagement. As such, we present our opinions of the 2017 Hyundai Elevator Integrated Sustainability Report as follows. Financial Statements FINANCIAL MD&A Non-Financial MD&A Audit Report Third-party Assurance Statement GHG Emissions Verification Statement UNGC & SDGs INDEX GRI STANDARDS INDEX Inclusivity Has Hyundai Elevator engaged its stakeholders in strategically responding to sustainability? We believe that Hyundai Elevator is making an all-out effort for major stakeholders’ Engagement in promoting sustainability management, and we assured procurement and operation of diverse stakeholder communication channel of Hyundai Elevator. We were not aware of any omission of significant stakeholder group. Materiality Has Hyundai Elevator included material information in the Report to help stakeholders make informed decisions? We are not aware of any significant omissions or exclusions of data that is material to stakeholders. We verified that Hyundai Elevator conducted materiality test with issues identified from analyses of internal and external environments and reported according to the result. Responsiveness Has Hyundai Elevator appropriately responded to stakeholder requirements and interest in this Report? We verified that Hyundai Elevator responded stakeholders’ needs and interests through reflecting stakeholders’ opinions in the Report. We are not aware of any evidence that Hyundai Elevator’s response to significant issues of stakeholders was reported inappropriately. Opinions and Recommendations by Sector We present the following recommendations to help Hyundai Elevator establish a company-wide sustainability management strategy and respond to continuous issues of sustainability. Economic Hyundai Elevator is growing with its continuous technological development, distinct products & quality and innovative cost. For continuous growth in the future, more detailed risk management is required. It is recommended that financial/non-financial risk management processes be broken down to respond to uncertainties in the global economy and external environment as well as changes in the business environment, and internally, the risk management be implemented from a longer-term perspective. Environmental Hyundai Elevator’s industry does not relate to a lot of environmental pollution and load. Nevertheless, stakeholders are highly interested in the product-oriented environmental regulation. We expect that the concept of sustainability in the product-oriented environment will be embedded in its business philosophy and core values so that the organizational performance will be reported from a broader perspective of sustainability. Social Many global corporations are integrating sustainability management strategies with their corporate management strategies to strengthen the organizational responsibility for sustainable development. Hyundai Elevator has set globalization as its top management task, and has established a system to grow into a global company. It is recommended that in the future, a more explicit sustainability management strategy be established to enhance its sustainability management system, and be gradually aligned with its corporate strategy. June 2017 KSA Chairman & CEO Soo-Hyun Baek 000-70 FINANCIAL AND NON-FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GHG EMISSIONS VERIFICATION STATEMENT Verification Scope Korean Standards Association has conducted reasonable GHG emissions verification based on GHG report provided by HYUNDAI ELEVATOR CO., LTD. which includes Scope1, Scope2, and Scope3 (domestic/overseas business trips for work and commuting travel) emissions. Verification Standards and Guidelines To conduct verification activities, verification team applied verification standards and guidelines. The standards and guidelines are as follows. •GHG&Energy Target Scheme guideline (2016-255) provided by Ministry of Environment, Republic of Korea •Verification guideline for management of GHG emissions trading scheme (2016-015) provided by Ministry of Strategy and Finance, Republic of Korea •KS Q ISO 14064-1,2,3 : 2006 •IPCC Guideline. Verification Conclusion As a result of verification activities, verification team has found no significant error. Therefore, Korean Standards Association confirms that following emissions data are adequately quantified. GHG Emissions (unit : tonCO2eq) 2013 2014 2015 2016 SCOPE 1 2,644 2,311 2,587 2,833 SCOPE 2 7,764 7,582 7,527 7,943 SCOPE 3 259 299 318 400 Total 10,666 10,192 10,431 11,176 * There is a difference between the total quantity of GHG emission and the sum of each workplace’s emission. (Decimal place is not considered when calculating the emission of each workplace.) 88 June 2, 2017 HYUNDAI ELEVATOR SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 89 KOREAN STANDARDS ASSOCIATION Financial Statements FINANCIAL MD&A Non-Financial MD&A Audit Report Third-party Assurance Statement GHG Emissions Verification Statement UNGC & SDGs INDEX GRI STANDARDS INDEX UN GLOBAL COMPACT / SDGs INDEX UN GLOBAL COMPACT INDEX HDEL joined the UN Global Compact in 2015, and complies with 10 principles in the 4 areas of human rights, labor, environment, and anti-corruption. UNGC 10 Principles Category Principle Page Human Right 1. ‌Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally 36 proclaimed human rights; and 2. make sure that they are not complicit in the abuse of human rights. 36 Labour 3. ‌Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective 77 Standards recognition of the right to collective bargaining; 4. the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor; 36 5. the effective abolition of child labor; and 36 6. the elimination of discrimination in respect to employment and occupation. 76-77 Environment 7. ‌Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental 81-83 challenges; 8. Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and 81-83 9. ‌Encourage the development and diffusion of environment-friendly 11, 26-27 technologies. Anti10. ‌Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including 34-35 Corruption extortion and bribery. Sustainable Development Goals HDEL has reviewed the progress of 17 goals to actively participate in Sustainable Development Goals(SDGs), and we will continue to set the goals and carry out the tasks to achieve the SDGs through our business. Targets set Monitored 1 2 3 4 5 6 No Poverty Zero Hunger Good Health and Quality Education Gender Equality Clean Water and Well-being Sanitation 7 8 9 10 11 12 Responsible Affordable and Decent Work and Industry, Innovation Reduced Sustainable Cities Consumption and Clean Energy Economic Growth and Infrastructure Inequalities and Communities Production 13 14 15 16 17 Climate Action Life Below Water Life on Land Peace, Justice and Partnerships for the Strong Institutions Goals FINANCIAL AND NON-FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GRI STANDARDS INDEX Omissions / Topic Disclosure Page Assurance Comments Organizational 102-1 Name of the organization 4 86-87 Profile 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services 11~19 86-87 102-3 Location of headquarters 6~7 86-87 102-4 Location of operations 6~7 86-87 102-5 Ownership and legal form 4 86-87 102-6 Markets served 6~7 86-87 102-7 Scale of the organization 4~5 86-87 102-8 Information on employees and other workers 4, 76 86-87 102-9 Supply chain 22~23 86-87 Significant changes to the organization and its supply No significant 102-10 GRI STANDARDS INDEX 86-87 chain changes 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach 34, 42~43 86-87 102-12 External initiatives 89 86-87 Korea Construction 102-13 Membership of associations GRI STANDARDS INDEX Association and 23 86-87 others Strategy 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker 30~31 86-87 Ethics and integrity 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior 34~35 86-87 Governance 102-18 Governance structure 32~33 86-87 102-40 List of stakeholder groups 38~39 86-87 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements 38~39 86-87 Stakeholder 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders 38~39 86-87 Engagement 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement 38~39 86-87 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 38~39 86-87 Reporting practice 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements 68~75 86-87 102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries 44~45 86-87 102-47 List of material topics 44~45 86-87 102-48 Restatements of information GRI STANDARDS INDEX No major changes 86-87 102-49 Changes in reporting ABOUT THIS REPORT 86-87 102-50 Reporting period ABOUT THIS REPORT 86-87 102-51 Date of most recent report ABOUT THIS REPORT 86-87 102-52 Reporting cycle ABOUT THIS REPORT 86-87 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report 92 86-87 90 HYUNDAI ELEVATOR SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards 86~87 86-87 91 102-55 GRI content index 90~91 86-87 102-56 External assurance 86~87 86-87 Procurement 103 Management Approach 44~45, 78 86-87 Practices 204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers 78~79 86-87 Anti-corruption 103 Management Approach 34, 44~45 86-87 205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to corruption 34~37, 79~80 86-87 Communication and training about anti-corruption 205-2 36~37 86-87 policies and procedures Anti-competitive 103 Management Approach 34, 44~45 86-87 Behavior Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly No cases of 206-1 GRI STANDARDS INDEX 86-87 practices violations Financial Statements FINANCIAL MD&A Non-Financial MD&A Audit Report Third-party Assurance Statement GHG Emissions Verification Statement UNGC & SDGs INDEX GRI STANDARDS INDEX Omissions / Topic Disclosure Page Assurance Comments Energy 103 Management Approach 44~45, 81 86-87 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization 83 86-87 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption 83 86-87 Reductions in energy requirements of products and 302-5 12 86-87 services Emissions 103 Management Approach 44~45, 81 86-87 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 83, 88 86-87 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions 83, 88 86-87 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions 83, 88 86-87 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions 83 86-87 305-6 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ODS) GRI STANDARDS INDEX No Information 86-87 Nitrogen oxides (NOX), sulfur oxides (SOX), and other 305-7 81 86-87 significant air emissions Effluents and Waste 103 Management Approach 44~45, 81 86-87 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method 82 86-87 306-3 Significant spills 82 86-87 Labor/Management 103 Management Approach 44~45, 77 86-87 Relations 402-1 Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes 77 86-87 Occupational Health 103 Management Approach 44~45, 54 86-87 and Safety Workers representation in formal joint management403-1 77 86-87 worker health and safety committees Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, 403-2 lost days, and absenteeism, and number of work-related 54 86-87 fatalities Workers with high incidence or high risk of diseases 403-3 56~57 86-87 related to their occupation Training and 103 Management Approach 44~45, 50 86-87 Education 404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee 50 86-87 Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition 404-2 50~53 86-87 assistance programs Diversity and Equal 103 Management Approach 44~45, 76~77 86-87 Opportunity 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees 77 86-87 103 Management Approach 44~45, 76~77 86-87 Non-Discrimination No cases of 406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken GRI STANDARDS INDEX 86-87 discrimination Human Rights 103 Management Approach 44~45, 50 86-87 Assessment 412-2 Employee training on human rights policies or procedures 36 86-87 Local Communities 103 Management Approach 44~45, 80 86-87 Operations with significant actual and potential negative No operations with 413-2 GRI STANDARDS INDEX 86-87 impacts on local communities negative impacts Supplier Social 103 Management Approach 44~45, 78 86-87 Assessment 414-1 New suppliers that were screened using social criteria 78 86-87 Customer Health 103 Management Approach 44~45, 46 86-87 and Safety Assessment of the health and safety impacts of product 416-1 46~49 86-87 and service categories Marketing and 103 Management Approach 44~45, 46 86-87 Labeling Incidents of non-compliance concerning product and No cases of 417-2 GRI STANDARDS INDEX 86-87 service information and labeling violations Incidents of non-compliance concerning marketing No cases of 417-3 GRI STANDARDS INDEX 86-87 communications violations Department TFT (22 People) Man Yu Hong, General Manager Korea Elevator Business Division Yeon Sik Kim, Manager Global Sales Unit 1 Nayon Chung, Manager Global Sales Unit 2 Heeseok Seo, Manager Service Business Division Dong Hoon Cho, Deputy General Manager Manufacturing Division Eui Jun Kwon, Manager Kwang Sook Roh, General Manager Quality And Safety Division Jeff Kim, Manager CTO Seung Hwan Kim, Senior Researcher HR Department Daewon Kim, Assistant Manager HR Development CHO Doohee Kim, Assistant Manager Department Social Contribution Team Jin A Hyun, Assistant Manager Finance Department Eui Tae Lee, Manager Business Planning Byung Ki Jung, Manager Department Compliance & Legal Affair Tae Hui Yeo, Manager CFO Department Business Management One Joe, Assistant Manager Department IR Team Ick Hwan Kim, Assistant Manager Purchasing Department Jong Hyun Noh, Manager CSO Heesung Han, Deputy General Manager Material Handling System Division Young Hyun Yu, Deputy General Manager Ethical Management Division Jae Young Park, Staff H-1 Innovation Division Chang Soo Suh, Deputy General Manager Published by Hyundai Elevator Publisher Bob Jang Directed by ‌Hyundai Elevator Public Relations Department Kee Seob Kwon(General Manager), Chan Ho Cho(Manager), Sung Bok Lee(Manager), Jin Kyoung Lee(Assistant Manager) Inquiry 82-2-3670-0681/ hecsr@hdel.co.kr 2091, Gyeongchung-daero, Bubal-eup, Icheon-si, Gyeonggi-do, 17336, Korea www.hyundaielevator.co.kr This report was produced using eco-friendly paper made with wood produced under the forest certification system, and printed using soybean oil.
