2016 Moving Forward Responsibly CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT American Express Global Business Travel (GBT) is a joint venture that is not wholly owned by American Express Company or any of its subsidiaries (American Express). “American Express Global Business Travel,” “American Express” and the American Express logo are trademarks of American Express and are used under limited license. a b o u t t h i s r e p o rt At American Express Global Business Travel (GBT), we are proud of our corporate social responsibility (CSR) efforts. This report is intended to highlight GBT’s impact on the world and inform our stakeholders about our CSR progress. Since our separation from American Express in 2014, we have been voluntarily reporting on sustainability issues in accordance with Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G4 standards – the commonly accepted global standard for corporate reporting. GRI Standards for Sustainability Reporting help companies evaluate and communicate the impact of their businesses in three focus areas of sustainability: environmental, social and governance (ESG). GBT is striving toward reporting in accordance with core G4 standards. This report covers, unless otherwise specified, the period from January 1, 2016, to December 31, 2016. This report includes our Communication on Progress with the United Nations Global Compact on page 13. Complete GRI G4 content indices are included in this report beginning on page 40. For more information about GRI, visit: www.globalreporting.org, and for more information about the Un ited Nations Global Co mpact, visit: www.unglobalcompact.org. Additional information can be found at our company website: www.amexglobalbusinesstravel.com. 2 t a b l e o f c o n t e n ts We lcome Op e rating Responsibly S e rving Our Clients and Travelers Pro tecting Our Environment 04 Message from Our CEO 14 Introduction 29 Introduction 37 Introduction 05 About American Express Global 14 Our Governance Structure 29 Responsible Products and 37 Our Approach to Business Travel Services Environmental 15 Our Global Risk and Compliance Sustainability 08 Our Culture Values Management Program 32 Client and Traveler Service 38 Our Carbon Footprint 09 Awards and Recognition 19 Our Governance Program 32 Measuring Client and Traveler 39 Satisfaction Looking Ahead 10 Memberships and Sponsorships 20 Responsible Procurement 32 Looking Ahead 20 Looking Ahead CS R and Our Business I n vesting in Our People S u pporting Our Communities A ppendix 11 Our CSR Commitments 21 Introduction 33 Introduction 40 GRI Content Index 11 Materiality 21 Empowering Our Employees 33 Charitable Giving 12 Stakeholder Engagement 22 Diversity, Inclusion and Equal 34 Giving Around The World Employment Opportunity 13 UN Global Compact – 36 Looking Ahead Communication on Progress 24 Employee Satisfaction and Engagement 24 Employee Rewards and Recognition 26 Employee Health, Safety and Wellbeing 27 Employee Training and Development 27 Wages and Benefits 28 Respecting Human Rights 28 Looking Ahead 3 w e l c ome WELCOME Message from Our CEO Since the formation of the American Express Global Throughout this report, you’ll learn more about our Business Travel (GBT) joint venture in 2014, commitment to our CSR priorities, and see Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) has been top examples of how we’re applying our CSR philosophy of mind. We recognize the role that companies – around the world in everything we do. Some especially global companies such as ours – have in highlights of which I’m particularly proud include: addressing social and environmental issues. We’ve › 360-degree compliance program (page 16): GBT gone through a lot of change at GBT, building a new is the most regulated travel management company from the ground up, and sustainability company, and we’ve truly risen to the challenge, plays a key part in the decisions we make about our when it comes to governance. operations. Running our business responsibly is something we take seriously, because we know how › Culture Survey (page 24): We’re committed to important it is to our employees, our clients, our delivering an exceptional experience for our suppliers, our partners and the world at large. employees – and they’ve rated GBT high in many Doug Anderson dimensions. We’ve got strong plans in place to CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER It takes time to build a robust CSR program, and deliver on our areas of opportunity. we’ve made a lot of progress. At this time three years ago, CSR at GBT was in its infancy. We › SMART (pages 21 and 32): With self-managed dedicate time and resources to evolving and teams, we’ve innovated our service delivery and growing our program, year over year, so that empowered our employees to deliver sustainability is central to everything we do. exceptional business travel experiences. We’ve also provided a glimpse at our current In this, our third report, you’ll see that we continue priorities in “Looking Ahead” boxes in each section. to focus on five key areas: Governance and Ethics; We’re hard at work, bringing each of those Employees; Clients and Travelers; Community; and initiatives to life, and I look forward to sharing an Environment. We also remain committed, for the update on our 2017 achievements next year. second year, to the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) and its Ten Principles with respect to Sincerely, human rights, labor, environment and anticorruption. As a signatory of the UNGC, we are dedicated to integrating the Global Compact and its Doug Anderson principles into our business strategy, culture and CEO, American Express Global Business Travel daily operations. 4 w e l c ome About American Express Global Business Travel WHO WE ARE GBT AT A GLANCE: 2016 At GBT, we help thousands of companies around the world, both big and small, carry out better business travel. 97% 100+years in global business travel We tailor our corporate travel services to the individual client retention2 serving travelers since 1915 needs of each particular company. Not everyone travels the same, but everyone travels to move their business forward. Through technology, information and global scale, we enable and empower the travelers of tomorrow $31b 91% with insights, service flexibility and connections. We sales in 20163 traveler provide innovative solutions and exemplary service to our satisfaction1 clients around the world. GBT has been operating as a standalone company since separating from American Express on July 1, 2014. Prior 8.5k+ 55,000 meetings & clients across to July 1, 2014, GBT was a division of American Express events produced 1 the globe1 for more than 100 years. ~120 12,000 25m+ 50% annual virtual countries dedicated employees worldwide 6,500+ highly trained travel client employees six continents 1 counselors worldwide1 interactions 1 worldwide1 1 American Express Global Business Travel internal reporting (FY 2016). 2 American Express Global Business Travel internal reporting based on 2016 air and rail sales volume in proprietary countries only. 3 Travel Weekly Power List, 2016. American Express Global Business Travel does not disclose its exact annual sales volume due to its non-public status, however, its annual sales volume exceeded $31 billion dollars in 2016. 5 w e l c ome OUR PRODUCTS AND SERVICES GBT provides services on a global basis to a full spectrum of corporate clients representing all areas of business. INTELLIGENT BUSINESS TRAVEL We offer end-to-end services that cover clients’ travel and meetings needs. TRAVEL MANAGEMENT MEETINGS & EVENTS Helping our clients manage and simplify Helping our clients transform their their business travel. meeting investment. We offer end-to-end corporate management travel Our 1,000+ meetings professionals on the ground in services with presence in nearly 120 countries. Our nearly 120 countries design and deliver effective, travel counselors deliver a better travel experience exciting experiences for our clients’ attendees. so our clients and their travelers can take care of their business. GLOBAL BUSINESS CONSULTING Helping our clients optimize their business with actionable data and insights . Our global network of consultants deliver consultation on travel technology, online booking, compliance and expense management. 6 w e l c ome OUR GLOBAL NETWORK Through a combination of proprietary countries, joint ventures and travel partners, GBT has presence in nearly 120 countries across six continents. No rth America Bermuda, Canada, Mexico, United States Ce ntral America Belize, Costa Rica, El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras, Nicaragua, Panama S o uth A merica Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Ecuador, Guyana, Paraguay, Perú, Surinam, Uruguay, Venezuela Eu rope Austria, Belarus, Belgium, Bosnia & Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Croatia, Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, France, Germany, Greece , Hungary, Ireland, Italy, Latvia, Lithuania, Macedonia, Moldova, Netherlands, Norway, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Russia, Serbia and Montenegro, Slovakia, Slove nia, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Ukraine, United Kingdom A sia Afghanistan, Azerbaijan, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Brunei, Cambodia, China, Georgia, Hong Kong, India, Indonesia, Israel, Japan, J ordan, Kazakhstan, Kuwait, Kyrgyzstan, Lebanon, Malaysia, Mongolia, Nepal, New Caledonia, Oman, Pakistan, Papua New Guinea, Philippines, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, Singap ore, South Korea, Sri Lanka, Taiwan, Thailand, Turkey, United Arab Emirates, Uzbekistan, Vietnam S o uth Pacific Australia, New Zealand 7 w WeElLcC omeOME Our Culture Values These shared behaviors are at the heart of how our employees – and our leaders – operate. By acting according to these values, we will provide exceptional business travel experiences for our clients, innovate the industry, attract and retain a highly engaged and talented workforce, and provide a healthy return to our shareholders. TAKE ACTION WIN TOGETHER OWN THE OUTCOME KEEP IT SIMPLE LOVE WHAT WE DO We are agile and We collaborate to drive We are accountable for We stay focused and We put our clients, get things done right. the best outcome. our actions and work smart to deliver travelers and empower each other. results. employees first. We’ve worked hard to align GBT’s culture to our strategy – that makes us more attractive as an employer of choice, and ultimately helps us to deliver exceptional experiences to our clients. When it comes to building culture, every employee play s a role. Employees continue to express enthusiasm about the opportunities to provide real-time feedback and actively participate in our cultural transformation. JoAnne Kruse, Chief Human Resources Officer 8 w e l c ome Awards and Recognition in 2016 GBT has been recognized for excellence across the board, around the world. Leading Corporate Top 25 Travel Provider Corporate Meetings & Incentives 2016 Business Travel News MeetingsNet Magazine Top 100 Bronze Stevie Award 2016 Golden Bridge Front-Line Customer Service Awards, Proactive Team of the Year – Proactive Traveler Care Team Traveler Care Gold Winner Best Product of the Year Proactive Traveler Care 2016 Magellan Awards Top Ranked “Travel Agent 2016 Winner Travel Management 2016 Magnolia Gold Award Organization – GBT Company Innovation” Marco Pellizzer, VP and GM for Proactive Traveler Code of Conduct Travel Weekly by Shanghai Municipal Government 2016 Power List Care and EXPERT CARE 9 w e l c ome WELCOME Memberships and Sponsorships As members and sponsors of the following travel industry groups, we are able to help create new opportunities across the industry and enhance the way in which our clients travel for business. The Association of Corporate Travel Executives (ACTE) is a not-for-profit professional association of business travel stakeholders throughout the world. The ACTE purpose is to advance the interests of the corporate business travel industry, to promote industry networking opportunities and to educate members on emerging issues. The Global Business Travel Association (GBTA) is the world’s premier business travel and meetings organization. GBTA connects the business travel world and promotes the value of business travel management. GBT was a gold sponsor and exhibitor at GBTA’s 2016 annual convention. In addition, GBT provides leadership and sponsorship at annual and local events, and partners with the foundation on travel-related research. Women In Travel (WINiT) is a network of women and men serving as a catalyst to drive change, provide support and educate the public about the benefits of career development, visibility and promotion of women in the travel, meetings and event management industries. GBT is a founding sponsor of WINiT and has seats on various boards: Doug Anderson, CEO, is on the Advisory Board, and Christiane Cabot-Bini, VP, Global Client Management, is on the Board of Directors. In addition, many GBT employees hold positions on WINiT’s Advisory Committees. 10 c s r a n d o u r b u s i ne s s Our Commitments As a leading provider of travel and related services worldwide, GBT has a unique opportunity to impact the issues of sustainability and CSR on behalf of our key stakeholders. We are committed to integrating our CSR priorities into our evolving business objectives and believe this commitment is of im portance to our employees, our investors, our clients and their travelers, and our partners. Our CSR program is focused on five key impact areas: › Go vernance and Ethics – We operate with the highest ethical standards and lawful business practices. › Employees – We create a difference through our people. › Clients and Travelers – We offer responsible and value-added products and services. › Co mmunity – We invest in the communities in which we live and work. › En vironment – We embrace our responsibility to minimize our impact on the environment. As a newly formed standalone company, our CSR program continues to develop and mature each year. The Chief Human Resources Officer (CHRO) leads our global CSR initiatives. On a day-to-day basis, the initiatives are spearheaded and monitored by the Vice President of Internal Communications and Corporate Social Responsibility. The CHRO reviews the CSR strategy on a regular basis, and initiatives are implemented through cross-functional programs with various business groups such as risk and compliance, human resources, communications, real estate, procurement, sales and marketing. Materiality This report focuses on the issues that matter most, as defined by our impacts as a business and by the feedback we received from key stakeholders during the preparation of our report and throughout the year. 11 c s r a n d o u r b u s i ne s s Stakeholder Engagement We have identified six stakeholder groups. Engaging regularly with our core stakeholders helps us to identify governance, social and environmental issues that are most important to them and to our business. The chart below summarizes the multiple ways in which we interacted with and engaged o ur key stakeholders in 2016. Stakeholder Group How We Interact Relevant Issues and Topics in 2016 Employees Annual and ad hoc culture surveys, senior leadership business › Compensation and benefits › Volunteerism briefings, training (mandatory and optional), employee intranet, › Health, wellness and safety › Communications performance coaching, GBT Ethics Helpline, community › Training and education › Diversity and inclusion involvement projects, Pacesetters recognition event, employee › Code of conduct › Employee satisfaction discount programs, peer-to-peer reward and recognition tool › Rewards and recognition › Career development › Workplace flexibility › Culture and values Clients and Travelers Dedicated account teams, client satisfaction surveys, social media, › Traveler duty of care › Governance and ethics onsite visits, marketing, website, account reviews, RFP process, › Green travel and meetings › Client service industry trade shows and conferences, online / offline booking, › Data privacy › Environmental mobile app, travel management products / services (duty of care, › Crisis management concerns consulting, etc.), travel program reporting › Risk management › Traveler well-being › Accessibility Suppliers and Partners Meetings / discussions, RFP process, Supplier Sustainability › Responsible procurement › Anti-corruption Shared Values, service level agreements, risk assessment process › Supplier diversity › Anti-bribery › Governance and ethics › Data privacy › Risk management › Code of conduct Investors / Board of Directors Quarterly meetings › Governance and ethics › Data privacy › Risk management › Code of conduct › Anti-corruption › Anti-bribery Government and Regulators Meeting regulatory obligations › Employment › Anti-bribery › Governance and ethics › Data privacy › Risk management › Environmental › Anti-corruption concerns › Code of conduct Community, Non-Governmental Memberships of business and industry associations, charitable › Volunteerism Organizations (NGOs) and contributions, participation in volunteer activities › Philanthropy Industry Associations 12 c s r a n d o u r b u s i ne s s United Nations Global Compact – Communication on Progress In 2015 GBT announced its support of the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC). The UNGC is a principle -based, globally acknowledged framework to encourage businesses worldwide to adopt sustainable and socially responsible policies, and to report on their implementation. The ten p rinciples cover human rights, labour, the environment and anti-corruption. Though voluntary, companies pledge to adhere to the universal corporate responsibility principles. Our support and participation in the UNGC enables us to clarify our corporate responsibility commitments and increase our act ivities focused on the ten principles in four areas (human rights, labour standards, the environment and anti-corruption) outlined within the UNGC. U N GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIPLE D ISCLOSURE HUMAN RIGHTS Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of Our Global Risk and Compliance Management Program, pages 15 18, Our Governance internationally proclaimed human rights; and Program, page 19, Diversity, Inclusion and Equal Opportunity, page 22, Respecting Human Rights, page 28 Principle 2 make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. LABOUR Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the Our Global Risk and Compliance Management Program, pages 15 18, Our Governance effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Program, page 19, Diversity, Inclusion and Equal Opportunity, page 22, Respecting Human Rights, page 28 Principle 4 the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5 the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6 the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. ENVIRONMENT Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to Our Approach to Environmental Sustainability, page 37 environmental challenges; Principle 8 undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9 encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. ANTI-CORRUPTION Principle 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, Our Global Risk and Compliance Management Program, pages 15 18, Our Governance including extortion and bribery. Program, page 19 13 o p e ra t i n g r e s p o ns i b l y Gove r na nce a nd Ethics – W e ope r a te with the hig he st e thica l sta nda r ds a nd la wf ul busine ss pr a ctice s Introduction 2016 Highlights • Rolled Out New Code of Conduct GBT has a well established commitment to sound governance practices and responsible Policy and Training corporate behavior. Good corporate governance is paramount to our success as a • Code of Conduct Won MarCom customer-focused business. We earn our customers’ and travelers’ trust by providing Gold Award • Launched “Mission: Compliance” outstanding service and committing to always do the right thing. Training • Launched privacy.amexgbt.com The GBT Code of Conduct outlines the standards we uphold in all of our dealings with each to Share Our Privacy Statement, other and with our shareholders, customers, travelers, vendors and other business Principles and Other Relevant Information partners. It sits alongside a comprehensive policy framework that addresses key risk areas, as well as the employee training, processes and guidance necessary to embed it into our business. A 360° compliance risk assessment, monitoring, testing, reporting and feedback cycle helps to ensure a continuous process of innovation and refinement. Our Governance Structure GBT LEADERSHIP BOARD OF DIRECTORS GBT’s executive leadership team includes: GBT has an 11-member Board of Directors chaired by travel industry veteran Greg O’Hara. The Board of Directors consists of representatives from American › Greg O’Hara, Chairman Express Company and Juweel Investors Limited and includes three Independent › Doug Anderson, Chief Executive Officer Directors. › Philippe Chérèque, President › Eric Bock, Chief Legal Officer, Corporate Secretary, and Global Head of Mergers and Acquisitions BOARD COMMITTEES › Martine Gerow, Chief Financial Officer To execute its responsibilities, the Board has several committees: › JoAnne Kruse, Chief Human Resources Officer › Steve Curts, Chief Strategy Officer › Audit & Finance Committee › Si-Yeon Kim, Chief Risk and Compliance Officer › Compensation Committee › Joanna Macleod, Executive Vice President, Global Service Delivery › Information Technology Infrastructure Committee › Michael Qualantone, Executive Vice President, Global Supplier Relations › M&A Committee › Risk & Compliance Committee 14 o p e ra t i n g r e s p o ns i b l y Gove r na nce a nd Ethics – W e ope r a te with the hig he st e thica l sta nda r ds a nd la wf ul busine ss pr a ctice s Our Global Risk and Compliance Management Program Our global Risk and Compliance Office is responsible for delivering a robust compliance and risk management program, and promoting awareness and understanding of the laws and regulations that apply to GBT. Through prevention, detection and response, the Risk and Compliance Office embeds a true 360° program into the DNA of GBT. RESPONSIVE TO REGULATION TONE AT THE TOP INDEPENDENCE Bank holding company regulation Culture of compliance Direct reporting line to the CEO and makes us the most highly regulated fostered by senior the board of directors with its Risk & travel management company business leaders Compliance committee ENGAGEMENT EXPERTISE GLOBAL 360° PROGRAM Annual training program and Global team led by Chief Risk and Annual compliance plan includes communications plan for employees Compliance Officer, regional leadership, global risk assessments, and key business partners and leading subject matter experts monitoring and testing 15 o p e ra t i n g r e s p o ns i b l y Gove r na nce a nd Ethics – W e ope r a te with the hig he st e thica l sta nda r ds a nd la wf ul busine ss pr a ctice s A TRUE 360 o PROGRAM GBT’s compliance and risk management program includes a comprehensive suite of policies establishing general risk management practices and addressing key risk areas such as privacy, anti-corruption, sanctions, third-party oversight and product development. The Risk and Compliance Office is made up of Regional Compliance Officers and subject matter experts in our key risk areas. Our policy framework is tested through annual compliance review an d reporting. GBT conducts both top-down and bottom-up risk assessments with senior management across the company to identify areas of risk, and to establish controls an d mitigation plans. GBT applies a formal program of proactive business self-tests and compliance tests to assess the effectiveness of our control environment. We analyze testing results, along with other quarterly metrics, to identify gaps and trends to allow us to monitor compliance changes day-to-day. These practices form key components of our Risk and Compliance Annual Plan, which is reviewed and adjusted throughout the yea r to address new business initiatives and changes to the regulatory landscape. All results are reported to the Chief Risk and Compliance Officer, and shared with t he Board. Policies Procedures Communication Training Investigations Disciplinary Actions Remediation Issue Management Risk Assessment Testing Monitoring Reporting/Whistleblower 16 o p e ra t i n g r e s p o ns i b l y Gove r na nce a nd Ethics – W e ope r a te with the hig he st e thica l sta nda r ds a nd la wf ul busine ss pr a ctice s CODE OF CONDUCT SANCTIONS AND ANTI-MONEY ANTI-CORRUPTION AND ANTIIn October 2016, GBT designed and launched a new LAUNDERING BRIBERY Code of Conduct (The Code). The Code is at the GBT is committed to the fight against money GBT fundamentally believes bribery is harmful to heart of our compliance program. It outlines the laundering and terrorist financing, which continues our business, our clients and the communities standards that we must uphold in all of our dealings to be the focus of considerable attention by where we operate. For this reason, and because we with each other and with our shareholders, our governments, international organizations and law respect the stringent anti-bribery laws established in clients, our travelers and meeting attendees, our enforcement agencies around the world. We expect many countries, GBT has adopted a zero-tolerance vendors and other business partners. The Code our employees to conduct themselves in accordance policy for bribery. To enforce this, GBT’s Risk and covers more than 40 topics in categories such as with the highest ethical standards, and to conduct Compliance Office actively works to prevent Our Shared Responsibilities, Our Commitment to business in accordance with applicable money employees, partners and vendors from engaging in Respect, and GBT and the Greater Good. laundering laws and regulations. any form of bribery, including offering, soliciting or The Code is available to employees on our intranet, accepting anything of value, directly or indirectly, Employees operate under the Global Anti-Money UConnect, in seven languages (English, French, that is given with the intent to obtain or retain Laundering Policy, which mandates compliance with Canadian French, German, Latin American Spanish, business or secure services. pertinent provisions of the USA PATRIOT Act and Thai and Traditional Chinese), and to external other relevant laws, the Wolfsberg Guidance, and The GBT Anti-Corruption Policy follows the parties in English at amexglobalbusinesstravel.com. the Financial Action Task Force (FATF) Forty Organisation for Economic Co-operation and ANTITRUST Recommendations. Development (OECD) Anti-Bribery Convention and the OECD principle of Corporate Governance. GBT strongly supports vigorous yet fair competition. EQUAL EMPLOYMENT AND ANTIWe must all abide by laws designed to preserve free HARASSMENT BUSINESS CONTINUITY and open competition. These laws vary across the Ensuring the continuity of our business in an GBT is committed to treating every individual with world, but their common goal is to promote a emergency is critical to our ability to serve our global competitive marketplace that provides consumers dignity and respect. We provide a work environment free from discrimination, harassment, favoritism or client base. with high-quality goods and services at fair prices. bullying of any kind. It is our policy that there be no GBT takes measures to prevent the impact of Our Antitrust Compliance Policy outlines discrimination against any person on the grounds of unexpected interruptions to business operations, requirements under the competition laws and race, color, national origin, ethnicity, disability, age, with plans and procedures designed to help ensure regulations for dealings with competitors, sex, including pregnancy, marital or domestic consistent, predictable delivery of services to customers and suppliers. To strengthen our partner status, sexual orientation, gender identity, clients. Every GBT department is required to create antitrust compliance efforts, employees receive genetic information, citizenship, religion or beliefs, and exercise a Business Continuation Plan (BCP) quarterly reminders in the form of short vignette work status, or any other classification protected by aligned with an assessment of critical business scenarios, must provide notice of intent to attend an law. functions and recovery objectives. industry event where competitors may be present, and must comply with the processes in our policy relating to membership in trade associations. 17 o p e ra t i n g r e s p o ns i b l y Gove r na nce a nd Ethics – W e ope r a te with the hig he st e thica l sta nda r ds a nd la wf ul busine ss pr a ctice s PRIVACY AND INFORMATION SECURITY MARKETING Privacy and security matter to us, because they matter to our clients, travelers, meeting attendees and Unfair, deceptive or abusive commercial acts or employees. The trust they place in us to protect and respect their valuable personal and company information is practices can present significant legal, reputational essential to our business. We hold ourselves to the most stringent privacy and security standards in the industry, and regulatory risks. GBT complies with laws and guided by the GBT Data Protection and Privacy Principles. We strive to manage all data responsibly – it is the regulations that require transparency, truthfulness right thing to do, protects our company, and helps to ensure that we comply with laws and regulations around and fairness in marketing practices, laid out in the the world. Unfair, Deceptive or Abusive Acts or Practices (“UDAAP”) Policy, and global requirements for To help ensure the security of information at all times, GBT’s Chief Information Security Officer oversees a cyber marketing permission, laid out in the Digital security program, using sophisticated technology, including firewalls, intrusion detection, monitoring and Marketing Standard and enforced in review alerting systems, virus protection and authentication. Our security policies adhere to U.S. Federal Financial procedures for all public-facing materials. Institutions Examination Council (FFIEC) guidelines and are built around the NIST Cybersecurity Framework. THIRD-PARTY OVERSIGHT The Chief Privacy Officer oversees a global privacy risk management program. GBT is the only travel management company to have achieved EU-approved Binding Corporate Rules, which help to ensure that our GBT’s services require cooperation among an global operations meet the most stringent data protection standards, no matter where the data is processed. We extensive network of third parties, including joint achieve operational compliance through an EU-model accountability framework of testing, monitoring, reporting ventures, travel partners and vendors. We operate a robust, formal third-party oversight program and internal audit, and we regularly assess strategic risks to make sure that the privacy framework stays relevant in an era of rapid business, industry and technological change. designed to identify and mitigate the risks that arise in these relationships. Privacy and information security procedures address potential risks in common business processes, such as vendor management, product development, marketing and data lifecycle management. PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT The Commercial Compliance team contributes to an All employees share in this end-to-end product development lifecycle, which responsibility and are helps to ensure that we embed appropriate risk accountable for strict identification into GBT’s products, from concept to compliance. The program launch. The product development lifecycle includes comprehensive incorporates best practices such as security and tracked training in architecture reviews and privacy impact privacy and information assessments to help ensure privacy and security by security for employees, design. contractors and key vendors. 18 o p e ra t i n g r e s p o ns i b l y Gove r na nce a nd Ethics – W e ope r a te with the hig he st e thica l sta nda r ds a nd la wf ul busine ss pr a ctice s Our Governance Program MANDATORY CODE OF CONDUCT AND COMPLIANCE TRAINING Every employee at GBT has a part to play in compliance and risk management. Each year, GBT employees complete a suite of courses designed to help them act ethically and lawfully. GBT Risk and Compliance develops and implements the compliance training plan and monitors completion rates to make sure we achieve full coverage across the globe. Each year, all employees complete mandatory Co de of Conduct training. The training was refreshed in 2016 with the launch of the new Code of Conduct. Also in 2016, GBT launched its new compliance training program, Mission: Compliance, a mini-series of learning elements, including e-learning courses, videos, emails, posters and intranet blogs. The training is a five-episode, action-packed movie, based around a central, relatable character named Jane. Each episode focuses on one key compliance area: Pr ivacy, Antitrust, Information Security, Anti-Corruption and Anti-Bribery, and S a nctions and Anti-Money Laundering. Pr e venting Workplace Harassment and Anti-Bullying training was developed in 2016, with a full release in 2017. This training helps to ensure we all understand harassment and bullying, the steps GBT takes to address it, and the ways everyone can help prevent it. This training goes beyond providing the basics of sexual harassment; it also addresses additional protected categories such as race, age, religion, disability, veteran status and sexual orientation. GBT also requires our Sales and Marketing employees to complete Unfair, Deceptive Or A b usive Acts (UDAAP) training. 19 o p e ra t i n g r e s p o ns i b l y Gove r na nce a nd Ethics – W e ope r a te with the hig he st e thica l sta nda r ds a nd la wf ul busine ss pr a ctice s Responsible Procurement SUPPLIER DIVERSITY As a global travel management company servicing clients and travelers in many countries and industries, GBT understands the importance of developing and fostering diversity, across all aspects of our business. We support the engagement of diverse suppliers on an equal basis with other suppliers. Our Procurement team works to identify opportunities to contract with diverse suppliers to satisfy business objectives. We define diverse suppliers as minority-owned, women-owned, historically underutilized businesses (HUB) zones, service-disabled, veteran-owned, lesbian, gay, bisexual and / or transgender-owned, and small or other disadvantaged enterprises. GBT SUPPLIER SHARED VALUES At GBT we believe that the company, its employees, and those acting on our behalf must engage in the highest standards of ethical and transparent business practices, and comply with all applicable laws and regulations in locations we operate. In support of this belief, we have adopted numerous policies, procedures and Looking Ahead: Operating Responsibly guidelines to assist employees, partners and suppliers to drive compliance with our Our Goals and Planned Activities for 2017 standards. › 100% Employees Complete Code of Conduct Training by GBT strives to actively promote ethical, social and environmental best practices within March 30, 2017 our own business and among our supply chain. Our Supplier Sustainability Shared Values focus on advancing these best practices throughout our supply chain. › Launch new Human Trafficking and Anti-Slavery Policy 20 i nv esting i n our p e ople E m p l o y ees – W e c r e at e a d i f fer en c e t h r o ugh o u r p e o p l e Introduction 2016 Highlights Providing exceptional care is central to our brand – and it’s our people, all around the world, › Launched “SMART” Teams in Global who deliver this service to our clients, day in and day out. We create a difference for our Service Delivery › Published Gender Transition clients and their travelers through our people. Guidelines We recognize that our people are our most important asset, and we truly believe that › Achieved 100% Score: Human Rights exceptional employee experiences lead to exceptional business travel experiences for our Campaign Corporate Equality Index › Launched GBT WINiT Group clients. Because our success depends on attracting and retaining an engaged workforce, we › Launched New Global Tuition make investments in tools, training and programs that enable our employees to do their jobs, Reimbursement Program and Policy grow their careers and “navigate their great.” Empowering Our Employees SMART: Changing the Way We Work › Each individual has a responsibility to perform his / her role and accountabilities The world of work and business is changing, and GBT responds by changing the › Power is distributed through clear roles and accountabilities, and decisionway we work. In 2016, we set out to transform our Global Service Delivery (GSD) making happens as close to the actual work as possible organization from a traditional hierarchal structure to Self-Managed, › Learning is ongoing via continuous 360 and peer-to-peer feedback Accountable, Responsive Teams, known as SMART. This innovative structure › We regularly evolve and adapt the SMART structure and processes through replaces the conventional management hierarchy with one that empowers our governance meetings GSD teams around the world to make meaningful service decisions on the spot, resulting in improved client service and traveler satisfaction. The key advantages of SMART include: › Employees are empowered to create connections and make decisions How SMART Works regarding their work, while also having responsibility for team performance › Roles and responsibilities are defined around the work, not people, and are › The flexible structure enables our teams to shape the service experience in completely transparent across the organization accordance with our clients’ evolving travel program needs › Ownership for planning and implementing processes is shared SMART has empowered us as individuals and as a team. This allows us to make faster decisions to ultimately satisfy the client more efficiently and effectively. All in all, SMART has taken a group of competitive travel counselors with individual goals and turned them into a competitive team working hand in hand to not just meet, but also to exceed our goals for GBT and our clien t. Megan S., Travel Counselor, United States 21 i nv esting i n our p e ople E m p l o y ees – W e c r e at e a d i f fer en c e t h r o ugh o u r p e o p l e Diversity, Inclusion and Equal Employment Opportunity At GBT, we make a concerted effort to foster a diverse workforce. Employing people with various backgrounds, cultures, opinio ns and talents enriches our company, and helps us to create and innovate so we can deliver on our commitments to our shareholders. In addition, as a global compan y, having a diverse workforce better enables us to take care of our clients traveling around the world. Our policy is to provide equal employment opportunities to all individuals based on job-related qualifications and without regard to race, ethnicity, gender, gender expression, disability, religion, sexual orientation, marital status, citizenship, age or any other legally protected charact eristic or status in each of the countries in which we operate. In addition, subject to law, GBT will reasonably accommodate known disabilities of employees. We also seek to maintain a non-discriminatory environment free from intimidation, harassment or bias based upon these grounds. We strive to offer an inclusive workplace where employee differences are valued and leveraged for individual, business and organizational success. WORKFORCE DIVERSITY Ethnicity* 2016 2015 2014 Gender (Global) 2016 2015 2014 Un ited States Wo men › Asian 7% 6% 6% › Officers 44% 38% 33% › Black of African American 8% 9% 9% › Vice Presidents 35% 35% 38% › Hispanic or Latino 9% 9% 10% › Directors and Managers 57% 58% 55% › White (Not Hispanic or Latino) 75% 73% 74% › Supervisors and Team Leaders 72% 73% 73% › Two or more races 1% 1% 1% › Individual Contributors 76% 77% 77% › All GBT Employees 73% 74% 75% * Note: Ethnic diversity data only available for the United States. Diversity is important to GBT – it’s how we maximize the talents and skills of our workforce. We’re focused on ways to recruit and hire a diverse workforce, and to make sure that all of our employees feel like they belong, that their voices are D&I quote heard and their work matters. Maria Perez-Brau, Vice President, Global Talent Development 22 i nv esting i n our p e ople E m p l o y ees – W e c r e at e a d i f fer en c e t h r o ugh o u r p e o p l e EMPLOYEE INCLUSION Gender Transition Guidelines for Transgender Employees We believe that providing a work environment based on respect, trust, GBT is an advocate for diversity and equal employment opportunities for all and collaboration creates an exceptional employee experience where candidates and employees. As with other protected characteristics, we do not employees can bring their whole selves to work and thrive in their discriminate on the basis of gender identity or expression, nor will we tolerate careers. harassment or bullying of any person going through the gender transition process. In 2016, GBT published guidelines intended for GBT’s transgender and LGBTQA (Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender, Questioning, Ally) gender non-conforming employees who may undergo gender transition, as well Workplace Equality as guidelines for management, Human Resources and co-workers of colleagues who are undergoing gender transition. GBT has a long history of supporting LGBTQA workplace equality, and has continued this commitment as a standalone company. In 2016, we earned a 100 Our Employee Network Groups percent rating on the Human Rights Campaign Foundation’s Corporate Equality Index for building a best-in-class inclusive culture for the LGBTQA community. LEAGUE (LGBTQA Employees At GBT United in Equality) U.S. Business Coalition for the Equality Act LEAGUE was created as a global, virtual community for employees to talk about their challenges, obstacles and achievements, and to provide encouragement and GBT joined the U.S. Business Coalition for the Equality Act along with 80 major support to LGBT colleagues. Established in 2015, the group has 100+ members. corporations that support the Equality Act. The Equality Act creates clear, consistent protections to prohibit discrimination on the basis of sexual GBT Women in Travel (WINiT) orientation and gender identity in employment, ensuring that LGBTQA employees The GBT WINiT network is a global community designed to support the are hired, fired and promoted based on their performance. In addition, the bill professional and personal development opportunities offered through the WINiT provides protections from discrimination for LGBTQA people in housing, credit organization (more information about WINiT is available on page 10). Because of and jury service. The bill would also prohibit discrimination in public GBT’s strong partnership with WINiT, the internal community provides the accommodations and federal funding on the basis of sex, sexual orientation and opportunity to access resources and benefits such as the mentor / mentee gender identity. The companies that make up the coalition have operations in all program, networking and educational opportunities, and most importantly, the 50 U.S. states, headquarters spanning 22 states and a combined $1.9 trillion in ability for exposure to senior leaders in the business travel industry. revenue, and employ over 4.2 million people in the United States. Holly W., Director, Global Business Consulting, and a founding leader of WI NiT, credits her experiences with WINiT for helping her learn to take risks. I don't believe in waiting around for change to happen, she says. I take risks now knowing that sometimes I am going to fail. For the ability to gain this confidence, I will be forever grateful to WINiT. Holly is the GBT WINiT co-chair and promotes the network community and benefits across all parts of the organization. 23 i nv esting i n our p e ople E m p l o y ees – W e c r e at e a d i f fer en c e t h r o ugh o u r p e o p l e Employee Satisfaction and Engagement CULTURE AND ENGAGEMENT SURVEY In 2016, we conducted our second Culture and Engagement Survey as a standalone company. The vast majority of our employees participated in the 2016 Culture and Engagement Survey Participation survey – this high engagement showed that our entire organization is committed to making GBT a great place to work. Some things employees believe we’re doing really well include: 82% that’s 9,000 38,218 employees comments › We take an active interest in the growth and development of our employees. total participation shared › We are committed to diversity. › Our leaders and employees respect their colleagues. Our employees also shared that, since 2015, we’ve made significant progress with: FEEDBACK IN A FLASH › Enhancing our internal communications As part of GBT’s ongoing focus on culture, we launched our “Feedback in a Flash” › Fostering a spirit of agility and innovation program, which gives our employees the opportunity to share frequent feedback › Focusing on employee performance on their experiences, as well as their thoughts on ongoing, culture -related programs. With “Feedback in a Flash,” employees easily provided their input via As a young standalone company, strengthening our culture and enhancing our quick, one-question surveys throughout the year. work environment are top priorities. Employee feedback in the 2016 Culture and Engagement Survey also helped us understand where we’re falling short. Following the release of team-level results, leaders and Employee Engagement Teams across the business developed culture action plans for 2017 to help close the gaps identified in the 2016 survey. We look forward to sharing our progress in our 2017 CSR report. Employee Rewards and Recognition RECOGNIZING OUTSTANDING EMPLOYEE CONTRIBUTIONS Recognizing and rewarding employees who deliver extraordinary results while bringing our culture values to life is part of wh o we are. We place great emphasis on personal accountability, innovation, collaboration and a winning spirit – and we reward those employees who both exhibit these qualities and deliver extraordinary performance and results. Creating a culture of recognition helps to drive our success. Our programs reward our top performers on an annual basis, and also enable employees and leaders at all levels to recognize and express appreciation for their colleagues on a da ily basis. 24 i nv esting i n our p e ople E m p l o y ees – W e c r e at e a d i f fer en c e t h r o ugh o u r p e o p l e PACESETTERS What Our Employees Have to Say Our annual recognition program, Pacesetters, recognizes our top achievers who consistently deliver outstanding results while making GBT a great place to work. These individuals Winning Pacesetters is a highly coveted honor at GBT! Being represent the very best of GBT and are role models to their recognized for making an outstanding contribution to the peers. business is really satisfying, and the actual event itself is In 2016, 511 top-performing employees were recognized for their 2015 always brilliant. – Kylie H., U.K. achievements. Pacesetters from 43 countries were joined by senior leaders and our partners at the Hilton Waikoloa Village in Hawaii to celebrate. My first Pacesetters was 2016, and my experience far Pacesetters exceeded my expectation. Coming together with other ACHIEVERS PROGRAM Pacesetters and our executive team to network and share best practices was my favorite part, and has stayed with me and In April 2016, GBT launched Achievers, a new reward and recognition program that made me a more rounded employee. – Alicia K., U.S. provides GBT employees several ways to recognize peers. › Recognition for actions and behaviors that support our values. At the start of Our company recognizes their employees and makes them each month, all employees receive a monthly allocation of points to give to their feel really special with this brilliant recognition program. I was colleagues. Employees can redeem the points they’ve been awarded for items in humbled to be a part of this amazing extravaganza. the Achievers online reward catalog. – Abhijeet C., India › Recognition for long-term service. Employees earn points for milestone Achievers gives me the opportunity to recognize my team’s anniversaries, beginning at year 5. work and thank them for their contribution to GBT. It really › Celebration of key achievements. The “Achievement” feature allows employees helps me reinforce what’s valued in our organization. I enjoy to share exciting work or education achievements. the fact that it’s easy to use, and it’s instantly visible to all Achievers employees! – Simon W., Australia Our 1st Year › 190,000+ recognitions given I love this program! It fosters engagement, creates a positive › 86% of employees sent a recognition culture and establishes awareness of the good work we're all › 100% of employees received a recognition doing. Achievers is how we show our appreciation for each other. › 1.16 recognitions sent per employee per month It creates an attitude of gratitude! – Jennifer R., Canada 25 i nv esting i n our p e ople E m p l o y ees – W e c r e at e a d i f fer en c e t h r o ugh o u r p e o p l e Employee Health, Safety and Well-being We are committed to providing a safe and healthy place to work, where EMPLOYEE SAFETY employees can be productive, maintain their best possible health and achieve a work-life balance. Being prepared for unexpected crises is something we always keep top of mind at GBT. We maintain an Incident Management Response Program that helps We recognize that flexibility and trust are critical to achieving a work-life balance, manage risk, safeguard our employees and travelers, and provide reliable and we are committed to safeguarding the well-being of our employees. Our uninterrupted service to our clients. employees are our most valuable asset, and looking after their safety and wellness is fundamental to our culture and our success. FLEXIBLE WORKPLACE EMPLOYEES LIVING HEALTHIER GBT offers a variety of flexible work arrangements to accommodate a range of work styles. Our Flexible Work program is designed to help employees become Here are some examples of our efforts to promote health and wellness across the more productive while maintaining a work-life balance. Depending on an globe: individual’s role and responsibilities, there are various flexible working Go Red for Women, United States arrangements available, including: On February 5, 2016, GBT employees across the country – and around the world › Virtual Workplace – Working 1-2 days per week or 100% of the time from a – wore red for the American Hearth Association’s National Wear Red Day to help dedicated home office. raise awareness of cardiovascular diseases (CVDs) and how to prevent them. Employees shared photos of their red attire on UConnect, our intranet. › Frequent Traveler – Mobile and on the road for the majority of the time, with the ability to drop into the office when required. J.P. Morgan Corporate Challenge, London, United Kingdom More than 70 of GBT’s London-based employees participated in the J.P. Morgan › Flexible Time – Altering the start and / or finish times of a workday while Corporate Challenge as runners and joggers. The Challenge is a global celebration maintaining the same number of regularly scheduled hours. of corporate teamwork, camaraderie and community. › Compressed Schedule – Altering the start and finish times of a workday to Healthy Friday Events, India compress working hours into fewer days. Our engagement and health and safety teams in India partnered with Human › Part-time and Job Share – Working fewer days per week; more than one person Resources to run a series of health-focused events. These events included a 1sharing a position on an ongoing basis. minute fitness challenge, orthopedic and ENT consultations, and health checkups. Health Camp, Singapore GBT, in association with Apollo Health Care, brought employees a free health camp, featuring height, weight, blood pressure, random blood sugar (RBS) and body mass index (BMI) measurements. The Singapore team also coordinated a series of health and safety activities throughout the year, such as the Ergonomics Walkabout, Chiropractic Talk and Zika Virus Awareness. 26 i nv esting i n our p e ople E m p l o y ees – W e c r e at e a d i f fer en c e t h r o ugh o u r p e o p l e Employee Training and Development We encourage and support a learning culture that empowers our employees to DEVELOPING OUR EMPLOYEES take ownership and accountability for their success. Investing in our people and creating a successful learning and development program is essential to meeting Every individual’s career is unique, and our Global Talent Development team is our commitment to provide world-class service to our clients and travelers. In dedicated to the ongoing development, growth and success of individuals as they 2016, 65% of GBT employees received career or skills-related training, totaling continue their careers with GBT. 92,666 hours. GBT employees averaged 23 hours of training per year. TRAINING AND EDUCATION Wages and Benefits Whether through on-the-job training, virtual web-based training or formal training programs, GBT believes that education opportunities have the potential to We offer numerous employee benefits which support our recruitment and positively impact both employees and the company. We offer extensive training retention success, including competitive compensation and benefits programs to support the development of our employees across all levels and packages, reward and recognition programs, diversity initiatives and flexible business functions supported, by a dedicated Learning and Performance team. work schedules. Employee training is conducted in three key areas: › Health and Wellness › Fitness Memberships › Travel Counselor Technical and Client Service Training: Develop Technical and › Retirement Benefits › Employee Discounts Customer Service Skills › Travel Discounts › Transportation Perks › S a les and Account Management Training: Develop Project Management, › Rewards and Recognition › Education Assistance Selling and Service Skills › Leaves and Paid Time Off › L e adership and Management Training: Develop and Refine Leadership Skills Our global presence and market-leading solutions mean an endless number of ULearn, GBT’s learning management system, offers extensive training programs possibilities that help our current and future employees reach their career and a social learning experience, with exciting features and content that are both destination. engaging and relevant to employees. In 2016, we launched our new Global Tuition Reimbursement Program and Policy, which provides financial reimbursement to eligible employees to cover some of the cost associated with obtaining a degree-level qualification at the undergraduate or post-graduate level at accredited colleges or universities. 27 i nv esting i n our p e ople E m p l o y ees – W e c r e at e a d i f fer en c e t h r o ugh o u r p e o p l e Respecting Human Rights GBT’s commitment to respecting human rights wherever we operate is embodied in our Code of Conduct. The principles of The Code apply to all employees. Our conduct in our global operations is consistent with the spirit and intent of the United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights; the International Labor Organization (ILO) Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work, where applicable to business; and other international principles, including the Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights. Each year, GBT requires all employees to take our mandatory Code of Conduct training. This training includes a separate module focused on anti-discrimination, because we recognize that a mix of backgrounds, opinions and talents enriches our company and helps us all to achieve success. As a leading travel management company with global operations, our business is positioned to help promote human rights. This additional curriculum enhances our focus and commitment to human rights, while including anti-discrimination policies at GBT as reflected in the Equal Credit Opportunity Act implemented by Regulation B. UPHOLDING CHILD AND FORCED LABOR PRINCIPLES GBT will not tolerate the use of child or forced labor in any of our global operations or facilities. This includes the exploitation of children, their engagement in unacceptably Looking Ahead: Investing in Our People hazardous work, and the physical punishment, abuse or involuntary servitude of any worker. Our Goals and Planned Activities for 2017 As outlined in our Supplier Sustainability Shared Values, we expect the suppliers with whom › Launch a global wellness campaign we do business to uphold the same standards. (For the purpose of these principles, a “child” is anyone who is less than 15 years of age.) › Add a biometrics element to our U.S. health insurance plan, so employees have critical data to monitor their health 28 s e r vi n g o u r c l i e nt s a n d t r a ve l e r s C l i e n t s a n d T r a v e l e r s – W e o f f e r r e sp on si b l e a n d v a l u e -a d de d p r o du c ts a n d s e r v i c e s Introduction 2016 Highlights GBT’s purpose is to deliver exceptional business travel experiences to our clients – it’s what we › Published Traveler Well-Being Articles on The Atlas strive to do, around the world, around the clock. This translates to helping our clients define and › Launched “SMART” Teams in fulfill their travel management goals, providing best-in-class client service, promoting client Global Service Delivery loyalty and confidence, and maintaining our longstanding tradition of ethical and responsible business practices. When our clients’ employees go on the road for work, their experiences matter, too. We’re dedicated to delivering exceptional care to travelers at every stage of a business trip, and supporting them with tools and 24/7 service teams so they have everything they need to not just arrive, but also to thrive. Responsible Products and Services GREEN TRAVEL AND MEETING SERVICES › En vironmental Policy/Program Management – Our Global Business Consulting group helps clients craft policies that fit their corporate culture, while helping GBT recognizes and supports our clients’ increasing interest in environmental raise environmental awareness and achieve their emissions reduction goals. sustainability, as well as their decisions to bring it into their travel program. Our › Eco-conscious Meetings & Events – Our Meetings & Events consultants work portfolio of products and services to help our clients reduce their environmental closely with clients to identify ways to incorporate eco-conscious decisions footprint includes: into their meetings and events. During the sourcing process, we recommend › Ca rbon Emissions Tracking – GBT can provide standard or tailored emissions destinations that may reduce or limit the need for participant air travel, or data for air, rail, car and hotel. By partnering with third-party experts, we can incorporate emissions reduction measures such as using group transportation also provide an initial carbon footprint and ongoing reporting to track instead of individual cars and choosing accommodations in energy-efficient progress. hotels. › Ca rbon Emissions Reduction – To help businesses “travel smarter”, GBT uses proprietary products and processes such as carbon emissions reporting, point-of-sales calculators, diagnostic analysis tools and supplier scorecards. We’re seeing Corporate Social Responsibility become an increasingly important topic to our clients. They want to know that th e suppliers with whom they work are making conscious efforts to run their businesses responsibly. At GBT, we’re committed to evolving and growing our CSR program, and helping our customers meet their own sustainability goals. It’s good for us, good for our clients – and, most importantly, good for our communities and the planet. Philippe Chérèque, President 29 s e r vi n g o u r c l i e nt s a n d t r a ve l e r s C l i e n t s a n d T r a v e l e r s – W e o f f e r r e sp on si b l e a n d v a l u e -a d de d p r o du c ts a n d s e r v i c e s DUTY OF CARE centralizing detailed information about countries and cities around the world. The site provides health and safety information, in addition to a wealth of We help to take care of the people who take care of our clients’ business; information specifically targeted to the needs and interests of global travelers, travelers can have peace of mind knowing urgent travel support from GBT is such as historicaland cultural-based country overviews, local language always available. considerations, currency information and more. An important role of any company is to protect its greatest asset – its people. Safety becomes particularly important when employees travel, and those Traveler Location Solutions managing their company’s business travel program must take steps to help EXPERT CARE is an interactive, intuitive, easy-to-use solution that supports a keep their travelers safe. We live in an unpredictable world. Plans often change travel management team’s ability to make informed risk-mitigating decisions. at a moment’s notice. Meetings are cancelled or rescheduled. Flights are With EXPERT CARE, clients can proactively monitor travel plans, and quickly delayed. Disruptions from political instability, natural disasters and medical pinpoint and communicate with travelers worldwide. emergencies occur. By integrating itinerary information, flight status monitoring, and Card Swipe In addition to having thousands of highly trained professionals around the with the American Express® Corporate Card, EXPERT CARE can provide near world ready to respond, GBT helps to support our clients’ duty of care real-time, location-based traveler information. We integrate risk intelligence responsibilities through our 24/7-support service, traveler location solutions, information from two vendors – iJET™ and Riskline™ – giving clients flexibility redundant communications network and emergency response groups. In and choice. EXPERT CARE’s communications functionality includes addition, we offer a variety of communications tools and resources to keep customizable two-way messaging between travelers and travel managers, and clients informed of industry trends, events and travel advisories, as follows: security alerts for travelers via email, SMS text or the Amex GBT Mobile app. After Hours Services To further support EXPERT CARE, clients can select from a wide range of travel risk management and response capabilities offered by iJET™, a leading Our business travel solutions give our clients and travelers peace of mind with threat intelligence provider. This fully customized and flexible solution is live phone support around the clock, 365 days a year. When business travelers designed to address specific travel patterns and support our clients’ duty of need to speak with a travel counselor after standard business hours, they can care efforts throughout every stage of their travelers’ journeys. dial the same number or press Click-to-Call on their smart phones to reach our travel counselors, who are equipped with instant access to itineraries, profiles TRAVELER WELL-BEING and supplier programs. In 2016, GBT began publishing articles on our blog, The Atlas, to help map the Travel Alerts and Communications world of business travel with insights, news and opinions. This blog, which is Through TRAVEL ALERT, an electronic broadcast service, travel managers publicly available on our website, features articles targeted toward business receive up-to-the-minute travel news alerts and updates. Monitored and travelers – for example, how to skip lines, find time to relax on the road and stay updated by a worldwide team of security analysts and editors 24 hours a day, healthy on long flights. Other articles are geared toward travel managers and seven days a week, TRAVEL ALERT tracks events that could potentially impact travel buyers – for example, research that shows the link between happy travelers. travelers and high performers, and how the right travel policy can help companies recruit and retain top talent, boost on-the-road productivity, and Business travelers also have access to INFOPOINT, a comprehensive website even improve employees’ willingness to travel. 30 s e r vi n g o u r c l i e nt s a n d t r a ve l e r s C l i e n t s a n d T r a v e l e r s – W e o f f e r r e sp on si b l e a n d v a l u e -a d de d p r o du c ts a n d s e r v i c e s CRISIS MANAGEMENT › Many families, especially those with elderly individuals, were suffering with medical complications that were exacerbated by the situation. We worked to Putting People First accommodate multi-generational families in adjoining rooms and larger suites to make these situations more comfortable for everyone in the family. GBT’s Support for a U.S. Utility Client and Thousands of Families During a Humanitarian Crisis › Evacuated residents with dogs or cats required accommodations that would not only accept pets, but would also have the space, amenities and In December 2015, GBT was engaged by our client to assist 12,000 of their housekeeping staff to keep everyone safe and happy. We worked closely with customers in California who had to temporarily leave their homes due to an hoteliers to ensure they fully understood the impact to these guests and the emergency. This was not in GBT’s normal scope of work, but we mobilized a team enormous amount of stress the family was facing due to this situation. In one to help the client place thousands of families into hotel accommodations. example, we spent hours searching for a suitable property to house an elderly GBT’s support demonstrated how we mobilize to help our clients during a crisis, woman and her cats – which was also located in a convenient area for family and how our employees persevere when faced with difficult and ever-changing members to come and check on her. needs. What’s particularly special about this story is that it shows that our team › One of the distressed residents was deaf and had specific housing members genuinely care about helping people, and not just those who are our requirements, including pets, bedding and location. The travel counselor clients or travelers. communicated back and forth with the woman via an interpreter to help find For nearly six months, a dedicated GBT team of more than 40 employees from the perfect property for her. our Global Service Delivery and Commercial organizations rallied together, working long hours to re-locate residents and provide accurate reports to the client. Many stories speak to the humanitarian support that GBT provided during this crisis. Here are just a few: › One displaced family had an autistic child who could not manage a longer car ride to school than what they had from home. We phoned all hotels within an acceptable radius to try to secure rooms for this family. It took hours to find availability in this sold-out situation, but we came through and found the family a place where everyone was comfortable with the commute. 31 s e r vi n g o u r c l i e nt s a n d t r a ve l e r s C l i e n t s a n d T r a v e l e r s – W e o f f e r r e sp on si b l e a n d v a l u e -a d de d p r o du c ts a n d s e r v i c e s Client and Traveler Service SMART: CHANGING THE WAY WE SERVE OUR CLIENTS AND TRAVELERS In 2016, we set out to transform the way we deliver service to our clients and travelers by moving from the traditional service delivery model to Self-Managed, Accountable, Responsive Teams (SMART). This new structure allows service decisions to be made on the spot, streamlines interactions and ultimately promotes a higher level of client satisfaction. Team members work together to meet the needs of their travelers. Rather than escalating issues – which can take time – employees collaborate to find the right solution. That means faster resolution and happier travelers. The SMART structure is flexible to our customer’s needs, helping to adapt the service experience in accordance with their evolving travel program. Measuring Client and Traveler Satisfaction At GBT, we have robust programs designed to continually boost our knowledge and understanding of our clients’ satisfaction. We use results and insights from our regular client engagement and satisfaction surveys to help shape service strategies, learning and Looking Ahead: Serving Our Clients and development activities, and innovation. Travelers With decades of industry experience, our dedicated Customer Experience team helps to Our Goals and Planned Activities for 2017 ensure that client and traveler feedback is effectively translated into improved service › Continue the roll-out of SMART experiences. In addition, this group supports the identification and sharing of best practices, enabling us to increase our effectiveness by bringing new approaches to life more quickly. › Enhance the process to glean and take action on richer In 2016, we made a range of enhancements to our client survey processes, including: insights from open-ended comments in customer satisfaction surveys › Simplified survey design › Real-time team-level results › Introduction of text analytics › Enhanced closed-loop alert process When asked: “Did the Travel Counselor resolve your travel needs?”, 95% of These upgrades provide our teams with increased insight regarding changing client needs our clients responded with “Yes”. and expectations, and facilitate our continued drive for service excellence. 32 s u p p o rt i ng o u r c o m m u ni t i e s C o m m un it y – W e i n v e st i n t h e c o m m u ni ti e s i n w h i c h w e l i v e a n d w o r k Introduction 2016 Highlights › Launched GIVE FOR A BETTER GBT has a longstanding tradition of giving back, whether through donations or TOMORROW volunteerism, and we are committed to maintaining that commitment. We encourage our › Donated More Than $100,000 to employees to make a difference in the communities in which they and our clients live and Charities work. As we continue to mature our CSR program, we will continue to explore ways in which we can make a positive and measureable impact in our communities. Charitable Giving CORPORATE PHILANTHROPY #GivingTuesday Campaign GBT invested in our communities by donating more than $100,000 to a variety For many people – including our employees – the end of the year is a time to of non-profit organizations; examples of our donations include support for reflect, express gratitude and give back. In November 2016, GBT participated in events, auctions and golf tournaments to help charities focusing on healthcare #GivingTuesday, a global day of giving. and childhood education. GBT offered employees a chance to increase their giving by sharing why they GBT also partnered with our client, Johnson & Johnson, by providing a fund for a give with an #UNselfie – a “selfless” selfie – on GBT’s intranet, UConnect. Other representative from the Aga Khan Foundation (AFK) in Tajikistan to attend the employees could “like” these selfies. The employees who submitted the top ten Strategic Innovation for Community Health (STICH) program at the INSEAD most popular photos received $100 to give to the cause that matters most to Business School. them, via the GIVE FOR A BETTER TOMORROW platform. Our support enabled Dr. Mahbat Bahromov, CEO, Aga Khan Health Services in To learn more about #GivingTuesday, visit: givingtuesday.org Tajikistan to attend the six-day STICH training program at INSEAD in Abu Dhabi. STICH is one of three programs offered to health care professionals through the Trust’s partnership with INSEAD Business School. It is designed for leaders in primary care, public health or chronic disease care. It welcomes individuals from public sector, private and non-governmental organizations (NGOs) who strive to have a real impact on the health of the populations they serve. GIVE FOR A BETTER TOMORROW PROGRAM In 2016, GBT launched GIVE FOR A BETTER TOMORROW, our new workplace giving and volunteer program. GIVE FOR A BETTER TOMORROW is open to all GBT employees globally, and provides employees with meaningful ways to give back as donors or volunteers – or both. This new platform empowers choice, making it easy for our employees to give back in ways that are important to them. 33 s u p p o rt i ng o u r c o m m u ni t i e s C o m m un it y – W e i n v e st i n t h e c o m m u ni ti e s i n w h i c h w e l i v e a n d w o r k Giving Around the World In the spirit of GIVE FOR A BETTER TOMORROW, GBT encourages employees to give back in the communities in which they live and work. UPS and United Way Plane Pull Hamilton, Ontario Red Cross Japan On Saturday, September 17, 2016, Team Kumamoto, Japan GBT Canada competed in a timed During the period of April 26 – May 9, our Joint Venture (JV) partner in Japan organized a campaign to raise funds to support the victims challenge to pull a 200,000-pound UPS Airbus to benefit the United Way. impacted by the Kumamoto earthquakes. The JV’s Employee Survey Fourteen teams raised nearly $13,400 Action Team raised 56,027 JPY. Neighboring companies also contributed an additional 40,865 JPY, and our JV partner matched CAD for the United Way. the funds collected, for a total donation of 200,000 JPY. The money was donated to the Red Cross’ Donation Allotment Committee in Japan, which was established specifically to support and distribute 100% of the funds to the victims in the Kumamoto Second Harvest Food Bank Campaign region. New Orleans, Louisiana In August 2016, thousands of people were impacted by devastating flooding in Southern Louisiana. As the American Spring Clothing Drive Express Meetings & Events team planned their upcoming Hong Kong INTER[action] Event in New Orleans, they wanted to show their The GBT Hong Kong “One Committee” team kicked off a support by assisting the New Orleans Convention & Visitors clothing drive for the month of April. As the season changed Bureau raise funds for the Second Harvest Food Bank of from winter to spring in Hong Kong, the team thought it was a Greater New Orleans and Acadiana. good time for GBT to extend support by asking employees to donate unwanted clothing to those in need. 59 GBT employees raised more than $1,900 USD to support this cause. Given the wonderful response from the GBT Hong Kong community, the team hopes to continue this initiative throughout the year, as the seasons change. 34 s u p p o rt i ng o u r c o m m u ni t i e s C o m m un it y – W e i n v e st i n t h e c o m m u ni ti e s i n w h i c h w e l i v e a n d w o r k GIVING SPOTLIGHT: LONDON, UNITED KINGDOM Our GBT London employees are making a difference in the lives of children, seniors and people living with cancer in the United Kingdom. This engaged and dedicated team organized and participated in multiple fundraising events that raised much needed funds for a variety of charities. Here are some examples: September 2016 Macmillan Coffee Morning: GBT Bake-off “The World’s Biggest Coffee Morning” is Macmillan’s biggest fundraising event for people facing cancer. People all over the U.K. host their own Coffee Mornings, and donations on the day are made to Macmillan. GBT raised more than £1,300, which was one of the largest single donations Macmillan received. Proceeds help Macmillan Cancer Support provide needed resources, information and support to people living with cancer. For more information, visit: macmillan.org.uk/ December 2016 Christmas Jumper Day  Save the Children Employees donned their favorite festive sweaters to raise money for a good cause. The team raised £340 for Save the Children. For more information, visit: savethechildren.org October 2016 Halloween Charity Event for Sadie  Tree of Hope Give a Christmas Dinner  Blackfriars Settlement GBT employees raised £578 from Employees collected 123 items for the Blackfriars Settlement Older People’s this event and £1,468 total in Services to provide Christmas Lunch. Blackfriars Settlement is a local charity 2016. Sadie was able to have her that helps older people to achieve their aspirations, gain new skills and build operation and is now walking. their confidence, and provides them with opportunities to have fun and make For more information, visit: friends. For more information, visit: blackfriars-settlement.org.uk treeofhope.org.uk 35 s u p p o rt i ng o u r c o m m u ni t i e s C o m m un it y – W e i n v e st i n t h e c o m m u ni ti e s i n w h i c h w e l i v e a n d w o r k GIVING SPOTLIGHT: HOUSTON, TEXAS It’s clear our Houston employees have big hearts. The GBT Employee Volunteer Team (GBTEVT) in Houston, Texas, has contributed well more than 2,000 volunteer hours to a variety of community projects for more than 18 years. This dedicated team has served as Cheerleaders for the Houston AreaSpecial Olympic Spring Games; cleaned Galveston beaches during Texas Land Commissions’ Adopt a Beach Campaign; remodeled the main lobby and clinic of Special Pals, a ‘no-kill’ animal shelter; built a home with Habitat for Humanity; painted the recreation room for a women’s shelter in the area, sorted clothes and made gift baskets for The Women’s Home; just to name a few. In January 2016, the team participated in the All in for ALS Poker Tournament, ultimately helping to raise more than $200,000 USD. “We are very committed and very passionate about serving our community.” Sonya R., Team Leader, Global Service Delivery In October 2016, the team volunteered for aniMeals on Wheels (aMOW), a division of the Looking Ahead: Supporting Our Communities Meals on Wheels for Greater Houston program, providing food for seniors’ pets. The Our Goals and Planned Activities for 2017 program was established when Meals on Wheels became aware that seniors were sharing › Incorporate charity policy language and a CSR element into their one hot meal with their pet companion. The team helped sort donated dry cat and internal events dog food into individual 5and 10-pound bags to make them portable. Once bagged, they were placed on shelves in the warehouse. By pre-sorting and shelving the pet food, aMOW drivers can easily retrieve food for their individual routes and quickly be on their way. For more information on aMOW, visit: www.houstonspca.org. 36 p r o t e c ti n g o u r e n v i r on me nt E n v i r o nme n t – W e e m b r a c e o u r r e s p on si bi l i ty t o m i n i m i z e o u r i m p a c t o n t h e e n v i r on m e nt Introduction 2016 Highlights As a leading provider of travel and related services worldwide, GBT has a unique › Achieved EcoVadis Silver Rating opportunity to impact the issues of sustainability on behalf of our employees, clients and partners. In keeping with our longstanding commitments to corporate citizenship, we recognize our responsibility to protect the environment, and help to ensure the health and well-being of generations to come. GBT is committed to measuring, managing and reducing the environmental impact of our global operations, as well as to continually improving our sustainability practices. GBT employees are expected to act as environmental stewards when conducting business on our company’s behalf, and we encourage our clients, suppliers, contractors and business partners to join us in this effort. Our Approach to Environmental Sustainability Our commitment to environmentally sustainable practices is focused around › Deploy efforts to improve our energy efficiency and reduce greenhouse gas where we work, how we work and how we serve our customers. We have emissions. procedures in place that focus on the company’s environmental impact areas: › Minimize waste through reduction strategies, recycling programs and safe disposal policies. › Energy Consumption › Waste and Recycling › Purchase sustainable products wherever feasible. › Greenhouse Gas Emissions › Reduce risks from environmental, health or safety hazards for employees, › Procurement contractors and visitors to our facilities. In meeting our commitments, GBT will strive to: › Incorporate environmental awareness into our day-to-day business by engaging our employees through regular communications and volunteer › Adopt environmental standards across all areas of operation, that meet all events. applicable environmental laws and regulations in the countries in which we operate. › Include environmental considerations in investment decisions, where appropriate. › Continually assess the environmental impact of our operations and identify areas where we can minimize our impact on the environment. › Regularly review and assess our policy, and share progress on our commitments. › Maintain our Flexible Work program, which helps to reduce carbon emissions from commuting. 37 p r o t e c ti n g o u r e n v i r on me nt E n v i r o nme n t – W e e m b r a c e o u r r e s p on si bi l i ty t o m i n i m i z e o u r i m p a c t o n t h e e n v i r on m e nt Our Carbon Footprint GHG EMISSIONS SCOPE 1 + 2 2016 2015 2014 2016 Energy Consumption GHG GHG (1) GHG (1) By Region Usage Usage Usage Region / Type Emissions Emissions Emissions (MWh) (MWh) (MWh) (Tonnes) (Tonnes) (Tonnes) No rth America APAC 17% North Electricity 3,476 2,173 2,449 1,419 2,070 1450 America Natural Gas 0 0 0 0 4 27% Cooling 0 0 202 2268 Steam 0 0 153 163 LAC LAC EMEA 5% 51% Electricity 649 455 1,033 723 773 541 Natural Gas 0 0 0 0 0 0 Cooling 0 0 0 0 0 0 Steam 0 0 0 0 0 0 EM EA Methodology Electricity 6,530 3,739 8,306 5,806 6,655 4660 Natural Gas 0 0 306 104 Many of the facilities in which we operate Cooling 0 0 21 0 0 continue to be leased from and managed by Steam 0 0 452 407 American Express. Energy consumption at these f acilities is based on utility records. A PA C For remaining locations, which represent the Electricity 2,197 1,066 1,431 900 1,019 713 majority of our leased facilities and where we Natural Gas 0 0 0 0 0 0 do not hav e access to our consumption data, emissions of greenhouse gases are estimated. Cooling 0 0 0 0 0 0 Steam 0 0 0 0 0 0 Emissions are estimated based on square f ootage and local emissions factors. To tal (1) CO2 emission only available for electricity. Ele ctricity 12 , 852 7, 433 13 , 219 8, 850 10 ,517 7, 3 64 Na tural Gas 0 0 30 9 10 8 Co oling 0 0 223 2 2 68 S t eam 0 0 60 5 5 69 38 p r o t e c ti n g o u r e n v i r on me nt E n v i r o nme n t – W e e m b r a c e o u r r e s p on si bi l i ty t o m i n i m i z e o u r i m p a c t o n t h e e n v i r on m e nt GHG EMISSIONS SCOPE 3 GBT Employee Business Travel 2016 2015 2014 10721 (1) 8453.9 (1) 3906.6 (1) tons CO2 tons CO2 tons CO2 643 614 292.5 tons CO2 tons CO2 tons CO2 17.3 52.6 41.9 tons CO2 tons CO2 tons CO2 292.1 269.5 111.4 tons CO2 tons CO2 tons CO2 Looking Ahead: Protecting Our Environment (1) Emission calculations according to DEFRA/GHG methodology. Our Goals and Planned Activities for 2017 › Reduce paper usage with implementation of new client billing system Emission Contributions 9% 10% Endnotes Flight › 2014 Scope 2 data reported is for the period of June 1 – December 31, 2014. Hotel › 2014 and 2015 Scope 2 emissions figures are restated due to calculation error. 23% 58% Rail › 2016 energy usage and emissions data for our London office not included as data is currently unavailable for that location. Car › At this time, GBT does not track emissions from employee commuting. 39 a p p e n d i x: g r i c o n t e n t i n d e x GRI G4 CONTENT INDEX STATUS DESCRIPTION  Compliant with this indicator  Partially compliant  Not compliant: not applicable or data not available GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURES STATUS REPORT REFERENCE / NOTES STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS G4-1 Statement from CEO  Message from Our CEO, page 4 G42 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities  Materiality, page 11, Stakeholder Engagement, page 12 ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE G4-3 Name of reporting organization  GBT III B.V. d/b/a American Express Global Business Travel G4-4 Primary brands, products, and services  Our Products and Services, page 6  Hoogoorddreef 15, Atlas-Arena G4-5 Organization headquarters 1101BA Amsterdam Zuidoost  Our Global Network, page 7 G4-6 Countries of operation www.amexglobalbusinesstravel.com/global-network-map/ GBT is a joint venture corporation formed July 2014. American G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form  Express Travel Related Services Company and an investor group led by Certares. Each has 50% ownership stake in the joint venture. G4-8 Markets served  Our Products and Services, page 6, Our Global Network, page 7 About American Express Global Business Travel, page 5. GBT is a G4-9 Organization scale  private company and does not publically disclose revenue or capitalization. Workforce Diversity, page 22. Note: Diversity data only available for G4-10 Composition of the workforce  the U.S. 40 a p p e n d i x: g r i c o n t e n t i n d e x GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURES STATUS REPORT REFERENCE / NOTES ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE We do not have direct union affiliations; however, some employees in  APAC and EMEA do participate in local organizations. Details of G4-11 Collective bargaining agreements those relationships are considered confidential employee information. As a new standalone entity and new reporting organization, our G4-12 Organization’s supply chain  mapping exercise was limited. G4-13 Organizational changes during the reporting period  Please visit: amexglobalbusinesstravel.com/press-room/ GBT does not have a formal policy regarding the precautionary G4-14 Precautionary principle  principle. G4-15 External charters, principles, initiatives  United National Global Compact, page 13. GBT also reports to the Carbon Disclosure Project.  Memberships and Sponsorships, p. 10 G4-16 Memberships in associations IDENTIFIED MATERIAL ASPECTS AND BOUNDARIES G4-17 Entities included in financial statements  Data in this report covers our entire GBT’s global operations only. G4-19 Material aspects included in the report  Materiality, page 11, Stakeholder Engagement, page 12.  All Material Aspects selected in this report apply to our entire global G4-20 Boundary of the report within the organization operations, unless otherwise stated. G4-22 Effect of any restatements of information  N/A G4-23 Significant changes from previous reporting periods  N/A STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT G4-24 Stakeholder groups  Stakeholder Engagement, page 12 G4-25 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders  Stakeholder Engagement, page 12 41 a p p e n d i x: g r i c o n t e n t i n d e x GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURES STATUS REPORT REFERENCE / NOTES STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT G4-26 Approach to stakeholder engagement  Stakeholder Engagement, page 12 G4-27 Key topics from stakeholders  Stakeholder Engagement, page 12 REPORT PROFILE G4-28 Reporting period  About This Report, page 2 G4-29 Date of most recent report  January 1 – December 31, 2015 G4-30 Reporting cycle  About This Report, page 2 G4-31 Reporting contact  Contact Us, page 45 G4-32 “In Accordance” option, GRI Content Index for the chosen option.  About This Report, page 2, Appendix A: GRI Content Index G4-33 External Assurance  This report was not externally assured. GOVERNANCE G4-34 Governance structure of the organization  Our Governance Structure, page 14 ETHICS AND INTEGRITY G4-56 Code of conduct  Our Global Risk and Compliance Management Program, page 17 G4-57 Helpline or advice lines for employees  Our Global Risk and Compliance Management Program, page 16 ENVIRONMENTAL Energy G4DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach  Our Approach to Environmental Sustainability, page 37 42 a p p e n d i x: g r i c o n t e n t i n d e x GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURES STATUS REPORT REFERENCE / NOTES ENVIRONMENTAL Energy  G4Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Our Approach to Environmental Sustainability, page 37 DMA G4DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach  Our Approach to Environmental Sustainability, page 37 G4EN3 Energy consumption within the organization  Our Carbon Footprint, page 38 G4EN6 Reduction of energy consumption  Our Carbon Footprint, page 38 Emissions  G4Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Our Approach to Environmental Sustainability, page 37 DMA G4EN16 Energy indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 2)  GHG Emissions – Scope 1 + 2, page 38 G4EN17 Other indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 3)  GHG Emissions – Scope 3, page 39 G4EN18 Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions intensity  The information is currently unavailable G4EN19 Reduction of greenhouse gas (GHG)  GBT has no formal initiatives to reduce GHG emissions at this time. Effluents and Waste G4EN23 Total weight of waste by type and disposalmethod  GBT does not track waste diversion data at this time. SOCIAL LABOR PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK Employment G4Investing in Our People: Introduction, page 21 DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach  Occupational Health and Safety  G4Employee Health, Safety and Well-being, page 26 Generic Disclosures on Management Approach DMA 43 a p p e n d i x: g r i c o n t e n t i n d e x GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURES STATUS REPORT REFERENCE / NOTES Training and Education  G4Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Employee Training and Development, page 27 DMA G4LA9 Average training hours per year per employee  Employee Training and Development, page 27  G4Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the Mandatory Code of Conduct and Compliance Training, page 19, LA10 continued employability of employees and assist them in career endings Employee Training and Development, page 27 Diversity and Equal Opportunity G4DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach  Diversity, Inclusion and Equal Opportunity, page 22 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employeesper G4LA12 employee category according to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity  Diversity, Inclusion and Equal Opportunity, page 22 HUMAN RIGHTS Non Discrimination Our Global Risk and Compliance Management Program, pages 15 G418, Mandatory Code of Conduct and Compliance Training, page 19, DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach  Diversity, Inclusion and Equal Opportunity, page 22 Respecting Human Rights, page 28 G4HR3 Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken  The information is currently unavailable SOCIETY Anti-Corruption G4Our Global Risk and Compliance Management Program, pages 15 DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach  18  G4Our Global Risk and Compliance Management Program, pages 15 Communication and training on anti-corruption policies and procedures. SO4 18, Mandatory Code of Conduct and Compliance Training, page 19 Product and Service Labeling G4DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach  Serving Our Clients and Travelers: Introduction, page 29, Measuring Client and Traveler Satisfaction, page 32  G4Results of surveys measuring client satisfaction Measuring Client and Traveler Satisfaction, page 32 PR5 44 Contact Us We value feedback from all our stakeholders. We invite you to share your feedback on our CSR report at: GBT-CSR@aexp.com Bridget Clark Vice President | Internal Communications and Corporate Social Responsibility American Express Global Business Travel 101 Hudson Street Jersey City, New Jersey 07302 United States For a copy of this report or more information about GBT, please visit our corporate website at: www.amexglobalbusinesstravel.com Martin Ferguson Senior Director | Global Communications and Public Affairs American Express Global Business Travel Tel: +44 7789 816 523 Email: martin.ferguson@aexp.com Follow us on Twitter @amexgbt American Express Global Business Travel (GBT) is a joint venture that is not wholly owned by American Express Company or any of its subsidiaries (American Express). “American Express Global Business Travel,” “American Express” and the American Express logo are trademarks of American Express and are used under limited license.
