July 21, 2017 To our stakeholders: I am pleased to confirm that SVN International Corp. reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Sincerely yours, Kevin Maggiacomo CEO & President SVN International Corp. t h 745 ATLANTIC AVENUE, 8 FLOOR | BOSTON, MA 02111 | 888.311.0605 (T) | WWW.SVN.COM United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress SVN International Corp., has been working throughout the year to better ourselves as a company, as well as improve on our promise to the UN Global Compact. Our company has taken steps in the main four areas of UN Global Compact: Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. Our efforts have led us to become a more inclusive, accepting and unified community. HUMAN RIGHTS SVN International Corp., as a company and a community require that all of our offices comply with the human rights initiative by providing safe, suitable and sanitary workplaces for the employees. Within our corporate offices, we supply a workplace that supports a human rights risk reduction by supplying an equal and safe workplace for our employees. Within our company policy, harassment, in any form is strictly prohibited. This includes harassment based on age, race, color, national origin, gender (including pregnancy, childbirth or medical condition related to pregnancy or childbirth), gender identity or expression, sexual orientation, religion, physical or mental disability, medical condition, genetic information, marital status, veteran status, military status or any other characteristic protected by federal, state or local law. All of our human resource policies and procedures are clearly outlined in our Human Resources Employee Handbook that is made available to all employees of the company. It specifically outlines the company's guidelines as to what is a protected class of persons. Additionally, within the last year, we have updated our parental and family leave policy to be more inclusive of all genders and parental relationships. It is outlined in an addendum to the Employee Handbook. After discussion, the company decided to implement a 14-day paid leave policy due to the birth, adoption or long-term foster care placement of a child. It is an inclusive policy running concurrently with the Federal Family and Medical Leave Act. SVN International Corp. provides training to our employees and franchisees in regards to implementing best hiring practices within individual offices. This training is available online and, in addition, our corporate offices provide in-person training during our training events and conferences. Finally, this year, we implemented a recruiting program aimed at assisting franchise offices in the sourcing of a diverse candidate pool in order to hire full-time personnel and interns. t h 745 ATLANTIC AVENUE, 8 FLOOR | BOSTON, MA 02111 | 888.311.0605 (T) | WWW.SVN.COM LABOUR All forms of harassment, verbal, physical, visual and cyberstalking, are to be reported and investigated. We encourage all of our employees to do so by paying attention to others reactions and stated requests and preferences. We respect others and we treat everyone in a professional manner regardless of gender, race, religion, nationality, age, sexual orientation, sexual identity or expression or any other protected characteristic. Harassment in the workplace will not be tolerated and swift disciplinary action will be taken as required. Reports of harassment will lead to action by senior executives within SVN International Corp. and our HR department. All of SVN International Corp.'s employees are at-will employees. Within the Employee Handbook it states that all employees are employed at an at-will basis. This policy means that any employee has a right to terminate their employment at any time, with or without cause or advanced notice. SVN International Corp. prohibits forced labour within the company. In the past year, SVN International Corp. has increased the number of women employees by fifty percent. Additionally, we have worked hard to ensure that we have a gender balanced executive team and Board of Directors. Finally, to eliminate discrimination in our employment practices, SVN International Corp. has implemented formalized hiring practices across all the franchising offices as well as within our corporate offices. In the past year, we have gathered research identifying the various methods of how our employees were hired within SVNIC. Through this research, it was discovered that we needed to implement a formalized hiring process to help eliminate gender discrimination across the company. In order to do so, we strongly encourage our offices to follow the employment policies and procedures as outlined by the EEOC (Equal Employment Opportunity Commission). ENVIRONMENT While we do not have a formal process in place for our franchise offices, our corporate office in Boston, Massachusetts, which is located within a WeWork building, partakes in the comprehensive recycling program set up by the WeWork community. In addition to recycling paper, WeWork has a program to recycle electronics. Within our corporate offices at SVN International Corp., we are committed to reducing our environmental footprint and within the next year, hope to increase our impact on this initiative. ANTI-CORRUPTION SVN International Corp. has implemented anti-corruption measures and policies that will help to protect our reputation and the interests of our stakeholders. SVN’s company-wide commitment to our Core Covenants, which outline our transparent business practices, values and culture, are true testaments to our efforts in the fight against all forms of corruption. t h 745 ATLANTIC AVENUE, 8 FLOOR | BOSTON, MA 02111 | 888.311.0605 (T) | WWW.SVN.COM
