Communication On Progress from 2016 to 2017. 温州宏丰电工合金股份有限公司 Wenzhou Hongfeng Electrical Alloy Co., Ltd. —电接触复合材料的创领者 ---The leading producer of electrical contact composite materials Page 1 / 30 Catalogue Chapter1.Letter from General Manager ................................................... 3 Chapter2.Human Rights Principles ........................................................... 4 Chapter3.Labor Principles ...................................................................... 14 Chapter4.Environmental Principles ........................................................ 21 Chapter5.Anti-Corruption Principles ...................................................... 26 Contact us .............................................................................................. 30 Page 2 / 30 Chapter1.Letter from General Manager Dear Mr. Secretary-General, I am pleased to confirm that Wenzhou Hongfeng Electrical Alloy Co., Ltd. supports the Ten Principles Compact with respect to human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption. We express our intent to advance those principles within our influence. We are committed to making the Global Compact and its principle strategy, culture and day-to-day operations of our company, and collaborative projects which advance the broader development goals Nations, particularly the Millennium Development Goals. Wenzhou Hongfeng Electrical Alloy Co., Ltd. is a clear statement of this commitment to our stakeholders and the general. We recognize that a key requirement for participation in the Global annual submission of a Communication On Progress(COP) that describer efforts to implement the ten principles. We support public accountability transparency, and therefore commit to report on progress within one Global Compact , and annually thereafter according to the Global Compact. Sincerely yours, General Manager ChenXiao 2017/10/26 Page 3 / 30 Chapter2.Human Rights Principles Principle 1: Business should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses Assessment, policy and goals Human rights are rights inherent to all human beings, whatever our nationality , place of residence, sex, national or ethnic origin, color, religion, or any other status. We are all equally entitled our human rights without discrimination. Those rights are all interrelated, interdependent and indivisible. Hongfeng shall not discriminate against any employee for any reason such as age, race, gender, sexual orientation, marital status, religious belief, national extraction or disability. This policy has been stipulated in the employee handbook. We are to guarantee our employees a fair working environment and protection from the loss of their jobs. All employees without any discrimination whatsoever have the right to equal pay for equal work. All candidates seeking to be hired are now required to pass through a series of quantitative exams (multiple choices) which ensures objectivity, fairness and equal chances are giving to all in our hiring process. We affirm and pledge to uphold the universal human rights of all individuals without limitation. Page 4 / 30 We employ and train members from all of China to join our international programs. We not only provide them a well-paid job, but also train them to develop a marketable skill. Earlier this spring, through our Empowerment Training Program, Hongfeng trained a group of employees and members of the new academician on entrepreneurial concepts and how to apply then to real-life situations. In the second half of the program, the individuals who received training partnered with small businesses to assist in developing sustainable business plans. Page 5 / 30 More than that, we also sign a supplier code of conduct to call on our suppliers respect the human rights. Deliver all participants’ attitude of UNGC, and ten basic principles upon human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption. Employees everywhere including our suppliers would have the access to defend their human rights from being invaded. For procurement, Suppliers are required to confirm no conflict minerals shall be used in their line of business. Serious human rights and environmental problems have been caused by the exploitation of rare metals such as silicon-black tungsten coltan and gold in the DRC and surrounding countries and regions. Avoiding the conflict mineral conveys our firmly attitude upon defending human rights. Visit the website blow for more information. http://www.wzhf.com/read_news.asp?id=529&title=%E5%86%B2%E7%AA%81%E7% 9F%BF%E4%BA%A7%E7%AE%A1%E7%90%86%E6%96%B9%E6%B3%95 Page 6 / 30 Page 7 / 30 There are KPIs indicate the management of human rights, specifically employee satisfaction, quantity of industrial injury accident, professional development training. By regularly review those indicators; adjustments can be made in time. Page 8 / 30 Page 9 / 30 Page 10 / 30 Summer vacation of this year is a special period for employees in our company. During the period of compulsory education, summer vacation is the longest vacation for Chinese students. Many children of our employees may feel boring at home. So, we organized all the children together visited Wenzhou Museum and Amusement Park. After this meaningful and joyful activity, many children made new friends with each other and our employees have become more harmonious during their job. It’s deeply believed that every staff in our company has an inviolable right to their family life. Another essential human right is health. Both company and employee know that health is the priceless. Our leader also pays high attention to the cultivation of all staff’s health both mentally and physically. Action has been taken is annual occupational physical examination. In May 25, all members of every department and workshop were arranged to have the physical examination. Members who have been Page 11 / 30 detected occupational disease are required to transfer into other work position in our company. Results of this examination remind all our employees should never neglect their health consciousness. It promoted human resource sustainable development in a long term. October 28 is the double ninth festival of this year. Our company organized respect and love elders activity. Through buying some presents, having caring conversations, Smiles shining upon their faces again. Filial is the foundation of all virtues. That a stream of positive energy we are conveying to the public through practice Page 12 / 30 We know that big changes start with small steps. So whether it’s offering a grant to an entrepreneur or providing a new academician with their first job, Hongfeng seeks to empower entire communities by reaching out to staff on an individual basis. We pull full respect for human rights to form a company’s management culture. We are willing to respect each employee’s value and personal freedom, to give employees the greatest trust, try to meet the request of the staff, to create unity, harmony, optimistic overall atmosphere. Page 13 / 30 Chapter3.Labor Principles Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Assessment, policy and goals Hongfeng now developed into an enterprise have 1100 employees hired from more than 20 cities and over 100 areas in China, including 7 nations. Through system training and unitary arrangement they are enjoying their works at Hongfeng Home. Periodically they may be gathered to learn ten principles of the Global Compact and we encourage our employees, customers and suppliers to join Global Compact and take actions to support ten principles. As a developing company committed to deliver the highest quality of products and services, we work hard to ensure every employee is treated with dignity and respect—wherever they work. Our employees are an essential ingredient to the success of the company and we are committed to providing positive, productive and supportive working environments where all employees are valued and inspired to be the best they can be. In an increasingly complex global environment, the Hongfeng Global Labor Principles set out employment principles that will help us achieve this goal. The principles are guided by internationally recognized instruments and underpin Hongfeng’s membership of the UN Global Compact. Page 14 / 30 We recognize that we are not perfect all of the time and in all of the locations in which we operate, but it is our firm intention to make Hongfeng a good place to work for all our employees worldwide. We are committed to working towards the achievement of these principles throughout its operations worldwide. Any employee who has a question regarding these principles, or who believes their terms have not been complied with, can rise this directly with their manager or a member of the human resources department. Reporting of serious violations of group policies or national regulations can be directed confidentially or anonymously to general manager, either on-line or by phone. For this way achieving without any holdbacks, we especially set out Staff to General Manager Response System and complaint box to understand minds from staff. Hongfeng undertakes to investigate any questions or concerns thoroughly and impartially and to respond with appropriate corrective action wherever necessary. No reprisal or retaliatory action will be taken against any employee who raises a concern relating to these principles when made in good faith, or against any employee who cooperates with inquiries into any such complaint. Hongfeng respects its employees’ right to associate freely, form or join organizations of their choosing and to bargain collectively in accordance with recognized international instruments, local laws and regulations, in full freedom and without fear of reprisal, intimidation or harassment. We also recognize its employees’ right to refrain from collective representation. Hongfeng is committed to conduct collective bargaining with freely chosen employee representatives of a legally recognized union. There is a labor union in Hongfeng. Gifts are delivered every women’s day and other important festivals. One figure to show their freedom to association will be our union staff ratio reached 83%. Besides, new members will be absorbed into trade union speak for new voice annually. Page 15 / 30 Oct.18, the 19th National Congress of the Communist Party of China was grand held. Our labor union organized a Communication meeting. Under the leadership of our great president Xi Jingping, We are building a well-off society in an all-round way, and take a new era the great victory of socialism with Chinese characteristics. As citizens of China, we are proud of the achievement obtained under generations’ construction. So, in the meeting we determined to rejuvenate motherland through industrial. Page 16 / 30 Hongfeng is committed to providing a safe and healthy working environment, to minimizing the risk or accidents, personal injury and adverse health impacts, and to continuous improvement in health and safety performance. We will provide the facilities, training and protective equipment necessary to ensure a safe workplace for all our employees. We will facilitate reporting of unsafe acts without fear of reprisal. We are committed to ensuring the physical security of all its employees. According to noise and dust preventive measures management regulation, earplugs and dust mask must be worn. In our company there is more than the corresponding to some indication plate to show that the requirements, and employees in accordance with the rules to wear earplugs and dust mask. As is shown in Page 17 / 30 Apart from improving conditions for our employees, these principles help reduce the risk of workplace conflicts, which can harm all parties financially and damage a company’s reputation. Hongfeng will treat every employ with respect and dignity and will not tolerate discrimination or harassment of any kind. Employment-related decisions are based on a variety of relevant factors such as qualifications, skills, performance and relevant experience. Hongfeng will comply rigorously with all local laws and regulations and will in no event employ children under 15 years, or under 16 years for work at sea. We will not permit hazardous work or night work for children less than 18 years. Hongfeng will not use any form of forced or involuntary labor, and refrain from practices that can give rise to a risk of involuntary labor . Page 18 / 30 Those regulations have been written into our employee manual and recruitment information on poster. Not only our company, we also demanded all suppliers take part in obeying labor principles. Hongfeng is committed to assuring full compliance with applicable laws, regulations, and relevant collective agreements concerning working hours and overtime, leave and minimum rest periods. It is company policy not to make systematic use of extensive overtime work and any overtime hours will be appropriately compensated according to individual terms of employment, applicable regulation and relevant collective agreements. The document below stated a ban on Sunday working. Hongfeng will provide its employees with compensation and employment-related benefits on a competitive basis. We recognize that wages are essential to meeting employees’ basic needs and will pay more than the minimum wage and mandated Page 19 / 30 benefits required by local law. Hongfeng is committed to uphold the privacy of our employees. Undertake to follow fair disciplinary, grievance and dismissal procedures which are provided for by company policies and collective bargaining agreements including, upon request, the provision of exit conversations for employees leaving the company. By conveying those four basic labor principles, Hongfeng now is in a harmony and highly motivated atmosphere. We have fewer employee complaints and higher production quantity. No child labor or discrimination case was found. In the coming year, a larger blueprint comes to us. No employee compliant, no child labor or discrimination in respect of employment and occupation is the foundation of everyone’s sense of responsibility as masters of our company. Everyone was born equally and freely, rights of our employees should be protected, rights of every labor should be protected. That’s our final goal also UNGC’s future. Page 20 / 30 Chapter4.Environmental Principles Principle 7: businesses support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principles 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; Principles 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Today, overexploitation is putting ecosystems and natural resources under pressure. This has already triggered fierce competition over access to resources, and accompanying higher prices. Competition over natural resources will only increase as billions of newcomers join the global consumer class over the next decades. To answer these challenges and thrive in the years ahead, businesses must innovate long term solutions that decouple the provision of services from the use of natural resources. At Hongfeng, we see the state of the environment as a good reason for making changes to business operations. What we did from internal is recycle and reduce. Massive materials can be recycled from our customer or next procedure. Therefore recycle contract with customers helps us cut down cost of production and need of raw material. Packaging materials are important resources to recycle. Because most of those are plastic which is extremely harmful to environment if disposed improperly. So we designed many recyclable package materials. In this way, quality of product can be ensured, economy and greenly. Pictures below show those materials. Page 21 / 30 Page 22 / 30 Further method is reducing. We replaced all incandescent light bulbs with LED light. Which is more effective, less power consumption, long life, safety and environmental friendly. LED project saves the consumption of electricity every workshops and department every second. Yearly, Cost on electricity will come down apparently. There are 500 computers around different office and workshop. Management them efficiently can also reduce the waste of hardware and electricity. It’s stipulated that once employee finished their work, they should turn off the computer. To inspect their self-conscious, we arranged specialized person check their computers periodically. Later when behaviors out of regulate exposed, they soon realized their mistake and made corrective action. More measures were taken in our company about “green IT”. When one staff needs a device like a computer, first he need to submit an application for it. Once Information department received the message, they will assess whether there is redundant device. Staff’s requirement is satisfied and redundant device get back to life. Information department manages office devices efficiently promoting the recycle of hardware. Achievements from outside is also remarkable. Hongfeng has been certificated with ISO14000. Managing our company by the tool wins us approbation from customers domestic and overseas. As a rapidly developing enterprise, we realize the importance of establishing environmental image. Many enterprises in Wenzhou are eliminated because of environmental issues. While learning the lessons, we think about why government takes such drastic measures. Every year there are a lot of industrial waste water, waste gas emission in the coastal areas. And that’s happened to be our living place. Violation of environmental laws and regulations may directly harm the health of the masses. So it’s necessary to take rigorous environmental protection measures. Page 23 / 30 Our environmental and climate change work can be divided into three basic areas: reducing exhaust gas emissions; fight pollution; and managing equipment for water purification. Data from environmental certification authority convinced that both exhaust gas and pullulated water emissions surpassed the standard. We clearly realize that we are part of environment problem, yet we also believe we must be part of the solution by maximizing our positive impact on the environment, and minimizing our negative impact. We comply with all applicable legislation and standards, but our environment strategy requires us to go further, and take a proactive approach. Instead of waiting for new laws, we strive to be ahead of the Page 24 / 30 game. And where no legal requirements are in place, we will apply responsible standards. Page 25 / 30 Chapter5.Anti-Corruption Principles Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. At Hongfeng, every staff from employee to general manager gives most respects for fair and justice and is against to any form of bribery. We have clear statement on our policy system that to prohibit the offer or receipt of gifts, hospitality or expenses whenever such arrangements would be in violation of applicable domestic law. Hongfeng Company, its employees or intermediaries, should not make direct or indirect contributions to political parties, party officials, candidates, organizations or individuals engaged in politics, as a subterfuge for bribery. Below is anti-corruption and bribery commitment we ask everyone to sign on. Page 26 / 30 Every staff needs to confirm their awareness upon anti-Corruption. Only when all the masses know the severity of anti-corruption, can we motivate them to supervision and prevention bribery. A company is also an ecology, which refers to the survival of all living things, and the interlocking relationship between them and environment. If the system is good, it’s helpful to breed a good leader. Certainly a competent leader can motivate his subordinates and colleagues. If not, staff will be disappointed by the company. Page 27 / 30 Problems couldn’t be investigated fairly, or even worse. Bribery or other illegal behavior once detected, anonymous letter or a directly phone call to general manager are available. With no tolerance upon corruption crimes，We committed serious disposal. No extortion or bribery happened in our company during the last year under those strict principles. Page 28 / 30 Page 29 / 30 Contact us Address: No.5600, Oujin Avenue, Oujiangkou Industry Cluster District. Wenzhou. Zhejiang, China. 浙江省温州市瓯江口产业聚集区瓯锦大道 5600 号. TEL: 0086-577-62876858 Fax: 0086-577-85515912 E-mail: wzhf@wzhf.com Website: http://www.wzhf.com/main.asp Page 30 / 30
