SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 TABLE OF CONTENTS 1. CEO WORDS: MOVING INTO DIGITAL SUSTAINABILITY 2. BISNODE AT A GLANCE 3. BISNODE’S SUSTAINABILITY JOURNEY 4. GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE 5. DIGITAL SUSTAINABILITY 6. ATTRACTING AND RETAINING TOP TALENT 7. OUR ENVIRONMENTAL FOOTPRINT 8. SUSTAINABLE SOURCING 9. ABOUT THE REPORT 10. GRI INDEX 2 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 CEO WORDS MOVING INTO DIGITAL SUSTAINABILITY For us at Bisnode, 2016 has been about executing and delivering on our new group-wide strategy. There’s been a lot of work, some interesting challenges, but most of all we’ve been creating new opportunities. We’ve become pioneers, leading the way on Smart Data to enable our customers to make Smart Decisions. It might put things in perspective to know that 90% of data worldwide was created in the last two years. That’s our starting point. Cutting through the immense amount of data to make sense of it for our ­clients so they can identify and provide value to their customers. Our vision Our vision is to become the most wanted partner for Data and A ­ naly­tics “An important factor in in Europe. An important factor in realising our vision is becoming the leader within Digital Sustainability. 2016’s new strategy and new realising our vision is posi­tioning in the data and analytics market aims to ensure long term becoming the leader within sustainable growth; increasing Bisnode’s agility and flexibility in the ­fast-changing world of data technology. Consolidating the organisation to Digital Sustainability.” collaborate with a strong customer focus in creating innovative customer solutions not limited by geography. Hence our biggest challenge as an organisation is becoming one with overarching Group functions in place. During 2016 we have assigned a new Group Sustainability Manager. This significant step towards formalising our sustainability efforts and s ­ tructuring our responsibility work group-wide together with this, ­Bisnode’s first Sustainability Report, is our launch pad to do just that. 3 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 CEO WORDS Signatory member of UN Global Compact Over the last years we’ve been working to create a solid foundation on which to build our sustainability work. To this end we signed the UN Global Compact, and work in accordance with its ten principles­ on h ­ uman rights, labour rights, environmental protection and anti-­ corruption. We have also chosen to follow the Global Reporting ­Framework (GRI) in our inaugural Group Sustainability Report. GRI provides a structured approach to work with the environmental, social and g­ overnance issues that are intrinsic to our daily operations. Focusing on the essentials In accordance with GRI guidelines we conducted a materiality analysis, which involved asking our stakeholders­what sustainability issues are most material to Bisnode. We now know the range of our work, and what specific areas should be our priority going forward. After intense work within the Managment Team it was decided that the area for Bisnode to excel within when looking to the future is Digital sustainability. Maintaining the highest levels of data security, protection, integrity and privacy is nothing new to us. However the speed, with which the technological development occurs, challenges us to stay one step ahead. We’re not only embracing that challenge, but also see it as an excellent opportunity to help our customers work smarter, minimise “Sustainability is nothing risks and find better solutions. Working with sustainability in a more new to us, but reporting structured way is going to help us continue to deliver insight while still upholding the high level of responsibility our customers and the and the structure of our ­communities in which we operate demand. work going ­forward is.” We see the legal frameworks regarding privacy and integrity develop at an ever increasing rate in order to keep up with the technological ­deve­lopment. Keeping up with continuously changing regulation is both a risk and a challenge that we prioritise. Since 2012 the EU has been revising its Data Protection Directive and establishing a modern, harmonised data protection framework across the territory. The reformed Data Protection Regulation will apply from May 25, 2018. We already have a project group in place to ensure compliance with the new law, but we also see the new EU reform as a big step towards a digital single market strategy, opening up possibilities for more ­streamlined regional operations. Attracting and retaining top talent is core to us, since the continuous increase in customers’ demand for Smart Data requires experienced and skilled employees. Our ambition is to be the most attractive em­ployer in our industry in order to prepare for the future challenge of hiring skilled employees. During the year an extensive employee develop­ment program has been launched and the work of harmonising policies, routines and systems for follow-up has been initiated. 4 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 CEO WORDS Looking to tomorrow Sustainability is nothing new to us, but reporting and the structure of our work going forward is. This year has been about assessing the sustainability work we’ve already been doing, gathering data and information and establishing Bisnode’s priorities. With that foundation firmly in place, we can now analyse the data and information gathered to set short and long term targets in line with the materiality analysis for our future sustainability development. We will use the successful­ bottom-up approach that helped establish Bisnode’s new values; ­customer focus, constant curiosity, collaboration and trust. And with that in mind, I am excited about Bisnode now taking Digital Sustainability to the next level. Magnus Silfverberg CEO, Bisnode Group 5 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 CEO WORDS BISNODE AT A GLANCE Bisnode have a long history within data and analytics. We are delivering integrated and quality-assured data, as well as developing decision-making platforms to help businesses automate their ­business processes and make data-driven decisions. With headquarters in Stockholm, Sweden, operations in 18 countries and 2 100 employees, Bisnode Business Information Group AB ­(Bisnode), a public Swedish limited company, is one of Europe’s leading suppliers of Data & Analytics. Private equity company Ratos AB owns 70 percent of Bisnode, while Bonnier Holding AB owns the remaining 30 percent. Three geographical areas The group is divided into three geographical regions: Sweden DACH: Germany, Austria, Switzerland International: Denmark, Norway, Belgium, Finland, Poland, Hungary, Czech Republic, Slovakia, Slovenia, Serbia, Croatia, Estonia, BosniaHercegovina and Macedonia. Smart Data is relevant data We synchronise information from hundreds of suppliers and through our strategic partner Dun & Bradstreet we have access to the world’s most comprehensive business directory. In total, we have access to over 2000 official data sources that we analyse to our customers’ needs. All information is managed and analysed based on a number of decision rules and for us it is important and prioritised with the safety Sweden DACH International of our customers and to manage sensitive information in confidence. 6 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 BISNODE AT A GLANCE Regional breakdown of total workforce Financial summary* Revenue: 3 535 MSEK Operating EBITA: 280 MSEK Liabilities: 3613 MSEK Equity: 1974 MSEK * The financial figures are based on 2015 year’s Total workforce: 2 325,94 result as financial data for 2016 is finalised after the publication of the sustainability report. Sweden Total number Dach Total number International Total number Women 304 Women 157,33 Women 600 Men 418 Men 264,61 Men 587 Total 722 Total 421,94 Total 1 187 Data is smart when it drives good decisions and transactions for the customer. At Bisnode we talk about going from big data to smart data. By that we mean when all data that is created is of high quality, ­provides analytical insights and is on time, it provides the ability to make smart decisions and create good business. When using smart data that shows who you should talk to, about what and when it can drive any business to make better decisions and marketing strategies. Bisnode enable customers to make smart decisions Customers of Bisnode all face the same main challenge as the ­majority of other companies: to find growth. The macroeconomic trend triggers the need to actively seek growth opportunities. In order to find that growth, companies turn to Data & Analytics. Bisnode cover all different industries from e.g. banking, telecom, utilities, media, retail and professional services, as well as the public sector. Common across all verticals is the challenge in reaping the benefits of the underlying positive development in our market. We constantly develop and refine ourselves as well as our offering to the market within the area of Risk and Credit, Business Information and Data-driven Marketing, in order to help companies to find and ­manage their customers throughout the customer lifecycle. Given all the above we at Bisnode offer customers to; 7 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 BISNODE AT A GLANCE Enrich your data and secure accuracy Use Smart Data to get the full picture of your customers, business, risks and opportunities. Ensuring data quality in systems and processes is the foundation for all other developments aimed at data-driven decisions. We are experts in matching different and large datasets and deriving insights from them. We identify current accuracy and completeness of the customer’s “We are experts in data. We then clean the data and introduce processes ensuring ­matching different and ­automatic up-dating of data over time hence avoiding the same ­problem occurring in the future. After which we can enrich their data large datasets and by adding information the customer lack. On top of this we can also ­deriving insights from help our customers to adhere to rules and regulations with regards to them.” refining and safeguarding data. Maximise your return on relations Use Smart Data to target new customers, drive sales, optimise risk and build long-lasting customer relationships. Given our objective to help customers drive revenue we support them in their customer relations and throughout the customer lifecycle. Customer lifecycle 1. 2. 3. 4. Identify, target and reach new Monitor the risk associated Grow the business with Improve customer customers. Bisnode can help with a potential new customer. existing customers. Bisnode satisfaction. By providing by mapping potential prospects Bisnode provides credit reports provides the tools to engage real-time customer experience and supporting with targeted and reports of compliance with with the right customer, with insights based on surveys and omni-channel communication to sanction lists etc. the right message at the analysis of what customers reach the potential prospects. right time. say in e.g. social media. Automate your day-to-day business decisions Use Smart Data for more effective decision-making in your daily business operations. Daily business decisions can to a large extent be automated, to both save money but also to improve accuracy. We have taken this to heart and can provide automated services in marketing, risk and credit ­monitoring as well as integrating the customers’ business processes with quality data through improved master data management services and real-time integration to Bisnode interfaces. 8 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 BISNODE AT A GLANCE BISNODE'S SUSTAINABILITY JOURNEY Bisnode has an understanding that our business has an impact on the communities in which we operate, that Bisnode’s success is reliant on a healthy business climate and that long term sustainability is a natural­prerequisite for continued growth. In 2014 Bisnode’s owners formalised requirements on sustainability resulting in Bisnode signing the United Nations Global Compact, the world’s largest sustainability initiative. Another important step in order to formalise our sustainability work was the decision to report on the Global Reporting Framework (GRI) G4, hence our sustainablity report is a combined GRI and Communication on Progress (COP) report. The latter focusing on our performance and continuous improvement regarding the ten guiding principles concerning human rights, labour rights, environmental care and anti-corruption. “Listening to our stakeholders has always been Determining our material sustainability issues In 2016 Bisnode conducted a materiality analysis to understand what important to us and is imsustainability issues matter most to us. As part of the materiality perative to the continued analysis we conducted dialogues with our key stakeholder groups. To identify which key stakeholder groups to approach, Bisnode mapped success and growth.” out people and organisations that may be affected by or affect our business. Listening to our stakeholders has always been important to us and is imperative to the continued success and growth. The dialogues were conducted via an online survey where we asked our identified stakeholders to prioritise the sustainability aspects related to Bisnode’s operations. The aspects were identified from a value chain perspective based on the impacts related to Bisnode’s 9 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 BISNODE’S SUSTAINABILITY JOURNEY a ­ ctivities, products and services. All material aspects are relevant The identified stakeholder groups within Bisnode’s organisation and the aspect Sustainable Supply and their top priority areas : chain is relevant outside the organisation. Bisnode will conduct regular Stakeholder Group Priority Areas dialogues with stakeholders to ensure that we focus our sustainability Digital sustainability efforts on prioritised areas. Board of Directors Responsible consumption in Setting boundaries for Bisnode’s sustainability own operations work going forward Digital sustainability The results from the stakeholder dialogues were presented to the Responsible consumption in Employees Group Management Team who defined the materiality boundaries in own operations a workshop based on three levels: area of excellence, focus areas and base level. The results from this analysis form the baseline for our Responsible consumption in own operations future sustainability work and the content of this report. Customers Increasing transparency Increasing transparency Owners Community involvement AREA OF EXCELLENCE Digital Sustainability Materiality pyramid Area of excellence FOCUS AND BUSINESS CRITICAL AREAS Which position does Bisnode want Increasing transparency, Minimising energy use, Customer satisfaction, to own in sustainability? Retention and recruitment of employees, Responsible consumption Focus and business critical areas in own operations Top areas to focus on during the year and to be highlighted in the HYGIENE LEVEL sustainability report Responsible handling of electronic waste, Emission of greenhouse gases, Hygiene level Efficient and sustainable transportation of goods and people, Active Sustainability issues that are work against corruption, Sustainable supply chain, Safe and healthy work considered as hygiene factors environment, Diversity and equal opportunity for employees, Training and education of employees, Community involvement Next step We see our sustainability work as a journey; shaped by stakeholder demands, risks, opportunities and group strategy based on the rapidly changing markets in which we operate. We will set objectives and hold ourselves accountable for meeting our sustainability goals. In 2017 we aim to have our new sustainability agenda firmly in place. We will then be able to disclose our first set of goals in line with The UN’s Sustainable Development Goals and how this exciting journey is developing in our next report. 10 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 BISNODE’S SUSTAINABILITY JOURNEY GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE Sustainability is integral to Bisnode, and is b ­ ecoming progressively more visible in all our communications. Bisnode’s CEO leads strategically on sustainability under the guidance of Bisnode’s Board of Directors. The Chief Human Resources Officer has overall operational ­responsibility Sustainability governance for sustainability at Bisnode, while the Group’s Sustainability Manager oversees the day-to-day sustainability work responsible for measuring performance against sustainability targets. But just as importantly, Bisnode’s sustainability objectives can only be met if each and every Bisnode employee takes responsibility for sustainability in their Board of Directors daily work. Steering documents The success of Bisnode’s business is built on the values customer focus, constant curiosity, collaboration and trust. We aim to ensure efficient and value-creating decision-making by clearly specifying the division of roles and responsibilities. The work of harmonising s ­ teering CEO documents on Group level was initiated in 2016 and will continue during 2017. Our governing structure consists of steering documents structured into three categories: Policies, Guidelines and Instructions. Chief Human Group functions Resource Officer Code of Conduct To maintain trust and credibility with our stakeholders, our employees Group Sustainability must understand and comply with our Code of Conduct. Our Code Manager ­summarises fundamental Group policies and directives, and contains rules to ensure that business is conducted with a strong sense of integrity. It is based on The UN Global Compact’s 10 principles and applies to all Region Region Region employees in the Bisnode Group and to all representatives including 11 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 BISNODE’S SUSTAINABILITY JOURNEY Steering documents Policies are of a general nature and Guidelines are rules outlining Instructions are detailed steps or state the overall goals and strategies within how something should be done work procedures describing how the company. The policies are adopted by The and to which entity, department or something could be done. Group Managament Team, unless required by process it is addressed. laws and regulations or otherwise appropriate then by the Board of Directors. Board Members. During recruitment, employees acknowledge that they New Group Sustainability are aware of the principles of the Code of Conduct. This procedure is Manager repeated during the term of employment. As part of our strategy to enhance our The Managing Director in each country of operations is responsible for sustainability work at implementing and monitoring the Code of Conduct. The Chief Human all levels of Bisnode Resources Officer is responsible for its continuous up-date. a new Group Sustainability Manager, Lena Gummesson Anti-Corruption policy previously responsible for our sustainability Bisnode’s Anti-corruption policy defines a zero tolerance approach work in Bisnode Sweden, was appointed to bribery and corruption. At Bisnode business decisions should be during 2016. She will coordinate and support made purely for business reasons and the policy clearly outlines the countries in their sustainability work as how Bisnode defines bribery and improper benefits. There were no well as working with strategic sustainability ­confirmed cases of corruption in 2016. issues at Group level and Bisnodes Sustainability communication. New Whistleblower function For questions regarding this report or In 2016 Bisnode launched a group-wide Whistleblower function to ­Bisnodes sustainability work please contact: which employees can raise issues of malpractice anonymously. Lena Gummesson, Employees can come forward, safe in the knowledge that Bisnode will Group Sustainability Manager investigate claims without risk of negative repercussions. lena.gummesson@bisnode.com Bisnode Business Information Group AB … is a Swedish public limited liability company. The company’s governance is based on The Swedish Companies Act and The Swedish Corporate Governance Code. As Bisnode is not a listed company, there are no requirements to comply with The Swedish Corporate Governance Code but our corporate governance is aligned where appropriate. 12 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 BISNODE’S SUSTAINABILITY JOURNEY DIGITAL SUSTAINABILITY It can come as no surprise that digital sustainability is Bisnode’s most important sustainability issue and therefore our number one focus moving forward. We talk about how the power of data can fuel company growth and Customer Survey help identify new customers. But as important as the raw data is, how During 2016 Bisnode launched the Cuswe use the information is even more important. This is called Smart tomer Survey NPS (Net Promoter Score) Data. We are experts in analysing large amounts of data and have in almost all our countries to support our a long history of delivering integrated and quality-assured data, as transition to become more customer centric, well as of developing decision-making platforms to help businesses solution oriented and One Bisnode. As this ­auto­mise their business processes and make data-driven decisions. is the first time almost all our countries use the NPS survey, we cannot yet compare the development over time. But for several Our success is reflected in our yearly customer satisfaction survey. of our countries that have used the survey The survey is carried out in each market and aggregated on Group before, the results are improved from last level. The survey provides invaluable insight when refining existing and year. During 2017 Bisnode will con­tinue developing new products and services in order to meet our customers’ to implement the Customer Survey in the demands. remaining countries. Protecting data In our high tech business, security, protection, privacy and integrity are vital, and are of critical importance to us as well as our clients. Our ­clients rely on our data so trust is the very foundation of our working ­relationship. The collection, use, retention, safeguarding and disclosures of Personal Data is regulated in our Group Data privacy policy. 13 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 DIGITAL SUSTAINABILITY What’s what on protecting data: Data security – the protection Data protection – the Data privacy – the appropriate Data integrity – data accuracy of data from unauthorised ­safeguarding and legal pro­ and authorised use of data and quality maintained throughaccess tection of stored data out its lifecycle: the opposite of data corruption. Data security Bisnode Group Security is responsible for protecting the company on ­every level. Keeping our employees safe at the office, protecting our ­assets such as raw and smart data, ensuring controlled access of data as well as protecting integrity. In the event of a breech in security, Bisnode Group Security manage the investigation and crisis management p ­ rocess. But the starting point is to understand and evaluate what security risks Bisnode is exposed to, and work to proactively mitigate those risks. Information security is an issue all Bisnode employees must be aware of. The Security Handbook and Code of Conduct provide important guidelines to employees on how to ensure information security. Data protection and privacy Together with Technology and IT security, Information security p ­ rotects the valuable, and sometimes sensitive, data that is our company’s bread and butter. As importantly, employees are trained and kept up to date on information security process and general awareness. “Security is a major factor to consider.” Security is a major factor to consider at the development stage of all new products, and we conduct our own security tests on existing products, as well as using third parties for stress testing of existing and new products. Every day Bisnode works hard to earn trust from clients and partners by protecting data through strong security. Data is safeguarded by encryption and latest generation anti-malware. The systems are monitored 24/7 and Bisnode has policies and procedures in place for authorisation to gain access to the different systems and information. At Bisnode data protection also involves data processing, and this is handled in line with strict internal regulations and in compliance with EU and local laws. Rapid technological development makes the current EU Directive 95/46/EC outdated. As of 2012, the EU has been revising 14 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 DIGITAL SUSTAINABILITY the Directive and establishing a modern and harmonised data protection framework across the territory. The reformed Data Protection Regulation will apply from May 25, 2018 and a project group within Bisnode is in place to ensure compliance. Data privacy is also of utmost importance and our strict data security measures again reassure our clients and partners that we can be trusted with personal and often delicate data. Bisnode has appointed a Group Data Protection Officer (DPO) effective February 2017. The core duties of the Group DPO will be to set up a network of DPO:s within Bisnode with an associated audit function as well support­ing Bisnode’s General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) Program. Data integrity Data integrity is fundamental to all of Bisnode’s products and services. Both raw data and Smart Data are protected from corruption, throughout their lifecycle, through data security, technology and IT security measures. Incidents Bisnode prides itself in its data security and protection, but we are fully aware that unexpected things can happen. To this end we have incident response plans in place and an updated version of Bisnodes Incident Management Policy was developed in 2016. During the year, Bisnode had thirteen complaints regarding customer privacy and customer data out of which ten complaints were received from regulatory bodies. No number of complaints regarding leaks, thefts, or losses of customer data were reported. 15 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 DIGITAL SUSTAINABILITY ATTRACTING AND RETAINING TOP TALENT We have access to a very valuable commodity; the best data in the world. But it is our employees that refine, analyse, sell and package the data that help our clients turn it into smart decisions. Employee Survey Our people are the innovators in our rapidly changing world, constantly coming up with improved solutions to our clients’ needs. To get results, 76 79 77 they listen to our clients, in the same way we need to listen to our people to become a better employer. In 2016 the Group HR function has focused on streamlining administration procedures and increasing efficien­cy within HR.This has been done to ensure that our employees have the best support and that we attract and retain top talent. One invaluable way of listening is the yearly employee survey, which TEI LSI EI tells us how Bisnode is performing in areas such as employee Bisnode Group Benchmark ­satis­faction, wellbeing and development. In 2016 we introduced a new s ­ urvey format but maintained compatibility with previous years TEI: Team Efficiency Index to allow for continued comparison year on year. The 2016 survey Indicates co-operations within shows great results in comparison to external benchmark, where and between working groups, and our L ­ eadership Index (LSI) and Team Efficiency Index (TEI) is above the conditions to work efficiently ­benchmark. The 2016 results will serve as the baseline for our future and profitably. work and strategy. LSI: Leadership Index Leaders capability, to articulate Development and training and recognize employees and to Our employees’ growth is essential to our business. So we provide our work on confidence in the ­people with a number of opportunities to develop within the company, on organization. both managerial and specialist levels. Our goal is to see every employee EI: Engagement Index evolve and advance, because when our people get ahead, so does Bisnode. Indicates the energy and clarity in the organization. 16 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 ATTRACTING AND RETAINING TOP TALENT The information services industry is a rapidly changing environment, bringing new opportunities for both our clients and Bisnode. By focusing on the learning and development of our employees we are better equipped to meet and exceed our clients needs. The most common courses attended by our employees are sales trainings and management courses. As part of our HR work in 2017 we will introduce a group-wide ­management and competence platform for managers and employees. Furthermore, we have started a performance and development appraisal process that will give both employees and managers the opportunity for mutual feedback and a platform to regularly follow up performance, goals and development. Performance and career development reviews BREAKDOWN BY GENDER* BREAKDOWN BY EMPLOYEE CATEGORY** 96,2% 95,1% Group Management Team 100% Country Executive Management 91% Managers 96,6% 96,9% Employees 95,9% of our employees received * % is based on total number of male and female employees performance and career development reviews Men Women respectively at Bisnode. ** % is based on the total number of employees in each employee category. during the year. Diversity and equal opportunity Bisnode has about 2 100 employees in our eighteen European countries of operations. Diversity is integral to our organisation, as our business depends on everyone’s unique ideas, thoughts and opinions. And we believe that we are smarter together. Our informal and open working ­environment encourages our people to cooperate and colla­borate across areas of expertise and geographical boundaries. All employees are free to choose their own representation in negotiating terms and conditions with Bisnode as an employer. During 2016, 54 percentage of employees were covered by collective bargaining agreements. We offer equal opportunities without regard to ethnicity, religion, g ­ ender, sexual orientation, disability, or age. Our endorsement of diversity and equality, especially in recruitment, is outlined in our Code of Conduct. During the year Bisnode Group had one case of discrimination which was reviewed and resolved during the year. 17 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 ATTRACTING AND RETAINING TOP TALENT Total number of employees breakdown* PERMANENT EMPLOYEES: 1 993,02 Employee breakdown 925,83 women 1 067,19 men 1 888 Contracted workers Total: 218 FULL TIME Men 153 Women 65 842 women 1046 men Employees Total: 2 107,94 PART TIME 105,02 Men 1 111,61 83,83 women Women 996,33 Total workforce: 2 325,94 21,19 men TEMPORARY EMPLOYEES: 114,92 70,5 women 44,42 men * breakdown exclude contracted workers. Full time and part time data is based on permanent employees. Health and Wellness We place high demands on our employees and encourage delegation of responsibility because we believe in empowering our people. But ­everyone needs balance, and to unwind and re-group, so we offer yoga and mindfulness courses, massage services as well as a health ­allo­wance, which allows employees to proactively maintain their health. These employee initiatives vary from office to office, depending on the local customs and rules of the countries in which we operate. “We place high demands on our employees and We also ensure our offices are a safe place to work through adherence to our health and safety policies. Although the risk of accidents is low, encourage delegation of we still need to make sure all offices are in line with country specific responsibility because health and safety regulations. The group-wide Whistleblower function we believe in empowering is also a tool for us to further facilitate health, safety and wellbeing for our ­employees as we evaluate reported complaints and address any our people.” ­findings. In 2016, Bisnode received six complaints regarding labour issues mainly relating to employee dismissals. All complaints were ­addressed resolved during the year except for one case which we aim to resolve in the beginning of 2017. No grievances regading human rights were reported. 18 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 ATTRACTING AND RETAINING TOP TALENT Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees % of individuals in Bisnode organisation Total Men Women Board of Directors 9 55,6% 44,4% Group Management Team 11 81,8% 18,2% Country Executive Management 67 59,7% 40,3% Managers 255,70 61,8% 38,2% Employees 1774,24 51% 49% New hires and employee turnover* New hires Total Rate (%) Employee turnover Number Rate (%) Total number / % of total employees 296,7 14,10% Total number / % of total employees 504,2 23,9% Women 142,0 47,80% Women 222,9 44,2% Men 154,7 52,20% Men 281,3 55,8% Age <30 130,9 44,10% Age <30 111,5 22,1% Age 30-50 149,8 50,50% Age 30–50 306,5 60,8% Age >50 15,9 5,40% Age >50 86,2 17,1% Sweden 109,0 36,7% Sweden 201,0 39,9% Dach 31,5 10,6% Dach 67,7 13,4% International 156,2 52,6% International 235,5 46,7% * During 2016 Bisnode went through a reorganisation resulting in 296,7 new employees joining the company and 504,2 employees leaving Bisnode. Case: Volunteering Facing a refugee catastrophe of gigantic proportions in Europe, Bisnode Sweden wants to show its support and care by ­supporting refugees coming to Sweden. ­Bisnode Sweden­has a cooperation with The Red Cross in Sweden where our employees can on a volunteer basis, partly during working hours, participate in our social ­engagement initiative for helping refugees to start a new life in Sweden. Employees who volunteers at least 16 hours per year can use 8 of these hours during work time. This represents a potential of 11 000 ­volunteer hours in one year. 19 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 ATTRACTING AND RETAINING TOP TALENT Case: The High Heels Mentoring Club In Bosnia and Hercegovina Bisnode runs the network “The High Heels Club”, an initiative to promote equality. The vision is to create a safe zone for women to socialise, mentor,­share positive experience and advice amongst each other. Network gatherings are arranged monthly and are informal and open for all business women who wish to make new contacts, share life stories, present their projects and discuss current business ­challenges. The network has been a great sucess since the launch in 2012 and during the years of the High Heels Mentoring Club we connected more than 60 mentoring couples. Case: Bisnode hosts programming sessions for children In an increasingly digital society, programming is quickly becoming an essential skill. Bisnode contributes by hosting programming sessions for children and youngsters in collaboration with non-profit organisations. During the year Bisnode Sweden, in colla­ boration with the organisation CoderDojo, hosted three sessions that were well visited by both beginners and more advanced programmers. For 2017 another six sessions are planned for Sweden and similar collaborations are now starting in both Slovenia and The Czech Republic. 20 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 ATTRACTING AND RETAINING TOP TALENT OUR ENVIRONMENTAL FOOTPRINT Bisnode’s environmental footprint might not be our biggest impact, but even so our planet is something we must all take responsibility for. In 2016 we laid the foundation for our future environmental work based on the prioritised areas deemed important by our stakeholders. Energy usage and business travel in focus Total CO2e emissions 6 181 The key environmental priority going forward is to minimise energy usage in our operations, mainly related to business travel, offices and servers. The energy usage for 2016 amounted to 16 000 MWh out of tonnes which 3 000 MWh is renewable energy. Swedish target is to reduce total One of Bisnode’s largest environmental impact comes from business emissions by: 25% ­travels. To reduce our emissions from travels we encourage our ­em­ployees to use videoconferences instead. In Sweden there is an initiative in place called “smart meetings” with the aim to increase the amount of alternative meeting forms to minimise the environmental­ between 2014 and 2020 impact from business travels. In Sweden all offices also run on ­renewable electricity. Emission intensity The Swedish operations already have a target to reduce total emissions by 25% between 2014 and 2020. In 2017 Bisnode aim to set short and long-term goals specifying expected decreases in emissions across 2,93 Total tonnes CO2e emissions / FTE the Group. Being a signatory member of The UN Global Compact the precautionary principle is a natural part of our work with e ­ nvironmental issues. Bisnode continuously try to find alternative ways to conduct our business in a more environmental friendly way. In addition to doing obvious things such as using eco-friendly office s­ upplies and recycling waste, Bisnode has already been looking at smarter, greener ways to maximise use of office space. 21 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 OUR ENVIRONMENTAL FOOTPRINT Total emissions and energy consumption Scope 1 emissions occur from Scope 2 accounts for emissions Scope 3 emissions are driven by Bisnode sources that are owned or controlled from purchased electricity, heating activities but occur from sources that are not by Bisnode. This includes emissions and cooling consumed by Bisnode. owned or controlled by Bisnode. This includes from our cars owned or leased by Heating includes district heating, emissions from our business travels, overnight the company. natural gas and oil. staying at hotels, office supplies and upstream emissions from activities earlier in the value chain Scope 1 Total consumption Total amount (MWh) CO2e (tonnes) Company owned cars 8 257 2 181 Total 8 257 2 181 Scope 2 Total consumption Total amount (MWh) CO2e (tonnes) Electricity 5 119 984 Heating 3 047 504 District cooling 49 2 Total 8 215 1 490 Scope 3 Total amount CO2e (tonnes) Business travel* 1 922 Office supplies** 105 * Business travel include emissions from flights, train, taxi, employee owned cars and hotel nights. Upstream emissions 483 ** Office supplies include office Total 2 510 paper, printed materials, fruits and coffee. 22 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 OUR ENVIRONMENTAL FOOTPRINT Handling of e-waste Waste of electronic equipment has become a global issue as the components contain different hazardous materials, which are ­harmful to human health and the environment if not disposed in a proper manner. Electronic equipment are used daily to run our operations. In the majority of our contries of operation we have a system in place for handling e-waste. During 2017 a group wide strategy will be ­im­plemented to ensure correct handling and follow-up of e-waste in all our businesses. Business case: LEED certified office buildings in Sweden As part of our ambition to continuously reduce our environmental footprint two of our Swedish office buildings are LEED platinum certified. The two offices, being our head quarters in Solna and our office in Gothenburg, together consist of 87% of our office space. Our Polish office is also expected to receive its LEED certification in May 2017. LEED is one of the world’s leading green building certifications developed by the non-profit organisation The U.S. Green Building Council. It addresses the buildings environmental impact and includes ratings on design, construction, operation, and maintenance. 23 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 OUR ENVIRONMENTAL FOOTPRINT SUSTAINABLE SOURCING – IMPACTING OUR VALUE CHAIN Bisnode works with a wide range of different suppliers, but only suppliers­ who, like us, take their corporate responsibility seriously, and support and apply the same principles we do. Sustainable sourcing is important to us, since it allows us to use our influence to promote sustainability and develop our suppliers. Consolidating procurement Since Bisnode is a fast growing company, each subsidiary has ­previously handled procurement individually. As part of the Bisnode Group’s consolidation process in order to increase cost efficiency, procurement will be governed centrally going forward. A new Head of Procurement will take office during 2017 with the mission of setting up a central procurement function. “As part of the Bisnode Group’s consolidaNew law in Germany Due to a new law on minimum wages, all suppliers that invoiced tion process in order to Bisnode Germany with a spend of more than 10 000 Euro during ­increase cost efficiency, 2015 were actively requested to sign Bisnode Germany’s Compliance procurement will be ­statement containing requirements on anticorruption, data protection and minimum wages. governed centrally going forward.” Pilot in Sweden A new Supplier Code of Conduct was developed during 2015. It outlines what we expect from our suppliers; to support human rights, to offer a safe and healthy workplace with good working conditions, preserve the environment and ensure ethical business practice. This is in line with the same ethical standards outlined in Bisnode’s Code of Conduct for employees. 24 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 SUSTAINABLE SOURCING Bisnode’s value chain Internal data bases Data is imported into databases in order to make it possible to structure and search the data in an efficient way Raw data Enrichment of data Customers Data is collected from The data is refined and The results are delivered a variety of different External data bases analysed to our customers to use in sources Data is collected from external their business databases, including both other companies and Bisnode’s customers’ own databases To assess and measure suppliers’ compliance with our Supplier Code of Conduct we used an online self-assessment tool. The tool screens for any breaches against internationally proclaimed human rights, labour rights, environmental protection and a ­ nti-corruption in ­accordance with the UN Global Compact. To ensure screening­ ­accuracy, the selected suppliers were based on their supplied ­products and services divided into four groups with tailored questions­for each group, ranging from global manufacturing to SME service providers. The suppliers were asked to fill in an online ­self-assessment­to determine their risk rating (low, medium or high). The rating is vital in determining a supplier specific risk mitigation strategy and action plan for those with a medium or high-risk rate. During the year 25% of our suppliers with a spend value exceeding 500 000 SEK have been screened using the tool. Results from the Swedish pilot as well as the German process will be important input to the Group sustainability supply chain management process going forward. 25 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 SUSTAINABLE SOURCING ABOUT THE REPORT This is Bisnode’s first annual sustainability report prepared in accordance with GRI G4 on a self-declared level Core. It also constitutes Bisnode’s Communication on Progress report (COP) to the UN Global Compact. The report refers to the ­period January 1 to December 31, 2016. The report includes all of Bisnode’s countries of operations except for Austria, Bosnia-Herzegovina and Macedonia. The countries are excluded due to limitation in resources to collect data or operations­ ­being very small, therefore not having a significant impact on ­Bisnode’s sustainable development. These countries will be included in the next year’s sustainability report. Data has been collected via templates that have been filled in by a representative in each country of operation. Human resources data is compiled using Full Time Equivalent (FTE). Environmental data is calculated based on the latest version of Green House Gas (GHG) Protocol with the exception of market-based calculation of electricity in Scope 2, following the earlier version of the GHG protocol (location based only). The base year for environmental data is 2016 and all greenhouse gases are included in the emission figures. In cases where data was not available, estimates have been made. A third party has not externally assured the report. A third party has not externally ­assured the sustainability information that has been provided. 26 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 ABOUT THE REPORT GRI-INDEX General standard disclosures FulfillCOP Chapter ment Principle Comment Strategy and analysis Statement from the most senior decisionG4-1 maker of the organisation Organisational profile G4-3 Name of the organisation Governance structure G4-4 Primary brands, products and services Bisnode at a glance G4-5 Location of the organisation's headquarters Bisnode at a glance G4-6 Number of countries and location of operations Bisnode at a glance G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form Bisnode at a glance G4-8 Markets served Bisnode at a glance G4-9 Scale of reporting organisation Bisnode at a glance, Financial information for Attracting and retaining 2016 cannot be disclosed top talent due to data not being finalised until after the publication of Bisnode’s sustainability report Attracting and retaining G4-10 Compilation of the organisation's workforce Principle 6 top talent Percentage of total employees covered by Attracting and retaining G4-11 Principle 3 collective bargaining top talent Sustainable sourcing G4-12 The organisation's supply chain – impacting our value chain No significant changes G4-13 Significant changes during the reporting year during the reporting year Whether and how the precautionary principle Our environmental G4-14 Principle 7 is addressed by the organisation performance Externally developed charters, principles, or Bisnode's sustainability G4-15 other initiatives to which the organisation journey subscribes or endorses Memberships of associations and national or Attracting and retaining G4-16 international advocacy organisations top talent Identified material aspects and boundaries G4-17 Entities included in financial statements About the report Bisnode's sustainability G4-18 Process for defining report content journey Bisnode's sustainability G4-19 Material aspects journey = Fully = Partial 27 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 ABOUT THE REPORT FulfillCOP Chapter ment Principle Comment Bisnode's sustainability G4-20 Aspect boundary within the organisation journey Bisnode's sustainability G4-21 Aspect boundary outside the organisation journey This is Bisnode's first G4-22 Restatements N/A sustainability report Significant changes from previous reporting This is Bisnode's first G4-23 N/A periods in the scope and aspect boundaries sustainability report Stakeholder engagement List of stakeholder groups engaged by the Bisnode's sustainability G4-24 organisation journey Basis for identification and selection of Bisnode's sustainability G4-25 stakeholders journey Bisnode's sustainability G4-26 Approach to stakeholder engagement journey Bisnode's sustainability G4-27 Key topics and concerns for stakeholders journey Report profile G4-28 Reporting period About the report This is Bisnode's first G4-29 Date of previous report About the report N/A sustainability report G4-30 Reporting cycle About the report Contact point for questions regarding the G4-31 Governance structure report G4-32 GRI index GRI index Policy and current practice with regard to The report is not G4-33 About the report N/A external assurance for the report externally assured Governance G4-34 Governance structure Governance structure Ethics and integrity The organisation’s values, principles, standPrinciple G4-56 Governance structure ards and norms of behavior 10 = Fully = Partial 28 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 ABOUT THE REPORT Specific standard disclosures FulfillCOP Chapter ment Principle Comment Minimising energy use Generic Disclosures on Management Our environmental G4-DMA Principle 9 Approach performance Our environmental Principle EN-3 Energy consumption within the organisation performance 7, 8 Emission of greenhouse gases Generic Disclosures on Management Our environmental G4-DMA Principle 9 Approach performance Our environmental Principle EN-15 Direct greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 1) performance 7, 8 Energy indirect greenhouse gas emissions Our environmental Principle EN-16 (Scope 2) performance 7, 8 Our environmental Intensity figure include EN 18 Greenhouse Gas emissions intensity Principle 8 performance all three scopes Efficient and sustainable transportation of goods and people Generic Disclosures on Management Our environmental G4-DMA Principle 9 Approach performance Other indirect greenhouse gas emissions Our environmental Principle EN-17 (Scope 3) performance 7, 8 Responsible handling of electronic waste Generic Disclosures on Management Our environmental G4-DMA Approach performance EN-23 Total type of waste by type and disposal Our environmental Data cannot be method performance disclosed as a large share of our operations do not have a system in place. We aim to report on this indicator in the next year’s sustainability report. Sustainable supply chain Generic Disclosures on Management Sustainable sourcing Principle G4-DMA Approach – impacting our value chain 2, 4, 5 Percentage of new suppliers screened using Sustainable sourcing EN-32 Principle 8 environmental criteria – impacting our value chain Percentage of new suppliers screened using Sustainable sourcing LA 14 labour practices criteria – impacting our value chain Percentage of new suppliers screened using Sustainable sourcing HR-10 Principle 2 human rights criteria – impacting our value chain Percentage of new suppliers screened using Sustainable sourcing SO-9 criteria for impacts on society – impacting our value chain = Fully = Partial 29 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 ABOUT THE REPORT FulfillCOP Chapter ment Principle Comment Retention and recruitment of employees Generic Disclosures on Management Attracting and retaining G4-DMA Approach top talent Attracting and retaining LA-1 New employee hires and employee turnover Principle 6 top talent Training and education of employees Generic Disclosures on Management Attracting and retaining G4-DMA Approach top talent Employees receiving regular performance Attracting and retaining LA-11 Principle 6 and career development reviews top talent Diversity and equal opportunity for employees Generic Disclosures on Management Attracting and retaining G4-DMA Approach top talent LA-12 Composition of governance bodies and Attracting and retaining Principle 6 Breakdown per age breakdown of employees per employee top talent group by employee category category has not been possible due to limitations in our reporting system. Reporting on minority groups is illegal in local law, hence not disclosed. Safe and healthy work environment Generic Disclosures on Management Attracting and retaining G4-DMA Approach top talent Number of grievance about labour rights Attracting and retaining LA-16 filed, addressed and resolved through formal top talent grievance mechanisms Community involvement Digital sustainability, Generic Disclosures on Management G4-DMA Attracting and retaining Approach top talent SO-1 Operations with implemented local Bisnode do not have community engagement, impact assessment a system in place and development of programs to conduct impact assessments on local community engagement. This will be reviewed during 2017 for us to be able to report in the next sustainability report. = Fully = Partial 30 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 ABOUT THE REPORT FulfillCOP Chapter ment Principle Comment Active work against corruption Generic Disclosures on Management G4-DMA Governance structure Approach Confirmed incidents of corruption and Principle SO-5 Governance structure actions taken 10 Non-discrimination Generic Disclosures on Management Attracting and retaining G4-DMA Approach top talent Total number of incidents of discrimination Attracting and retaining HR-3 Principle 6 and corrective actions taken top talent Number of grievances about human rights Attracting and retaining HR-12 impacts filed, addressed and resolved Principle 1 top talent through formal grievance mechanisms Customer satisfaction Generic Disclosures on Management G4-DMA Digital sustainability Approach PR-5 Customer satisfaction Digital sustainability Data privacy and data protection Generic Disclosures on Management G4-DMA Digital sustainability Approach PR-8 Total number of substantiated complaints Digital sustainability Germany figures not regarding breaches of customer privacy and included. The system losses of customer data used does not distinguish different types of complaints. = Fully = Partial 31 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 ABOUT THE REPORT www.bisnode.com
