2017 Sustainability Report About this Report Purpose of Publication Since the publication of its first sustainability report in 2008, LX Korea LX, Connecting Spaces and People Land and Geospatial InformatiX Corporation has continued to disclose its sustainability management strategies and performance. The annual 2017 Sustainability Report publication of this sustainability report helps LX to promote the interests of its stakeholders, and their proactive participation and the resulting trust and support underpin our growth and development into an organization that creates new values. Features of the Report In a preemptive response to the mandatory requirements of the Global Reporting Initiative’s (GRI) standards after 2018, this report is prepared in accordance with the modified report standards. By advancing the existing materiality assessment system, it features secured objectiveness as it quantitatively analyzes the interests of key stakeholders by different topics and then reflects them in the selection of core issues. Reporting and Verification Standards Contents This report satisfies international sustainable management standards including the Core option of the Global Reporting Initiative’s (GRI) Standards, a global standard for sustainability reporting, UNGC, and ISO26000, among 04 CEO Message others. In addition, the company has obtained the verification for its financial and non-financial data from a specialized verification body, the Korean A Promise for a Better Future Growing with the Trust of the People Foundation for Quality. The 3rd party statement can be found in pp. 62 63. 08 2016-2017 Highlights News Healthy Corporate Culture Reporting Scope and Period 09 Introduction to LX Korea Land and 38 Ethical Management The report covers the headquarters, LX Education Institute, Spatial Geospatial InformatiX Corporation Information Research Institute, 12 regional headquarters, and 172 district 41 Human Rights Management 10 Sustainability Management Initiative offices. It records LX’s sustainability performances from January 1 to 11 Sustainability Management System The Ecosystem of Mutual Growth December 31, 2016 with additional activities and performances from the first 12 Stakeholders’ Materiality Assessment 42 Public-Private Partnership Growth half of 2017 for some issues. In particular, quantitative performances have been released for the past three years from 2014 to 2016 to enable year-by16 Governance 44 Job Creation year trend analysis. 18 New Growth Engine for the Future High Quality Service 46 Customer Satisfaction A Leader in National Spatial Information 48 Risk Management 22 National Spatial Information 49 Information Security 26 Cadastral Survey Happiness Sharing 29 Cadastral Resurvey 50 Local Community 30 Global Business Work-Life Balance 34 Research and Education 52 Human Resources Management 55 Health and Safety Appendix 57 Sustainability Management Performance Data Cover Story 60 GRI Index LX Korea Land and Geospatial InformatiX Corporation 62 Third-Party Verification Statement draws the future blueprint of national spatial information. LX capitalizes on the power of time, space and people to go beyond the national territory of Korea, but towards the world. This strong will of LX was symbolically captured in the cover design. 04 2017 Sustainability Report CEO Message A Promise for a Better Future A Leader in National Spatial Growing with the Trust of the 05 Information People CEO Message With the advent of the 4th Industrial revolution, LX promises you Third, we will take the initiative to start a virtuous circle that grows that we will not settle for our present success: we will strive to leap the cadastral, spatial information industry by advancing to the global forward to create greater value for our land and a more prosperous market. future by making a commitment to the following. Venturing beyond national boundaries, LX has extended its field from the First, we will be reborn as a hub for spatial information that cadastral business to the spatial information business and accelerated overseas is built together with the people. market expansion since 2006. Developed by the Korean government, the “Korea Land Information System (KLIS),” which is a Korean version of a land LX is broadening its territory by providing the public with free spatial management system, “National Spatial Data Infrastructure (NSDI) service,” information, enabling them to create added value in an easy and and our national land information management system, are drawing global convenient way. LX has established and provides the “LX National attention. As a participant that has helped establish this national system, LX Land Information Base Map” that enables individuals to see various has handed advanced land surveying technologies over to developing countries national land information at a glance for free. The company is also that are in dire need of building an effective land information system. LX was in the process of evolving into a hub that is responsible for spatial also selected as one of the institutions implementing the “capacity building information with a given commission to manage the National program for the modernization of the land administration system” by the World Spatial Information Portal, Highway Management System (HMS), Bank (WB) from the past year. and natural disaster information control from the government. LX is fully committed to assisting developing countries to develop their LX is building a dense national disaster safety network by cadastral/spatial information industry as reflected in its successful and recent establishing and verifying the National point numbers that identifies completion of the “The improvement of Geolocational accuracy of Cadastral exact location data from remote areas and by operating the flood map in Uruguay,” “Establishment of National Geographic Information System in hazard management system caused by torrential rain, typhoons, Uzbekistan,” etc. and tsunamis. Lastly, we would like to contribute to the pursuit of win-win Because LX is an exclusive institution of the unified Survey of the management in line with the UN’s Sustainable Development Goals Land Information, which conducts the national land monitoring (SDGs). project using drones (UAV), and has been designated as a specialized organization for the national land spatial information LX has joined the “UN Global Compact,” a policy initiative for businesses to quality management, we commit our utmost efforts to enhancing declare their commitment in the areas of human rights, labor, the environment, the public benefit. and anti-corruption, and is exploring business models to attain the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), a blueprint and roadmap for the mutual prosperity Second, we will lay a foundation for sustainable management of our international society. The SDGs encompass all areas of the economy, by cultivating human resources based on a transparent and society, and environment and orient toward a human-initiated, comprehensive ethical corporate culture. partnership to be implemented by both developed and developing counties LX Korea Land and Geospatial InformatiX Corporation (LX) is a quasi-governmental agency under the umbrella while taking care of the environment. Accordingly, LX has introduced green of the Ministry of Land, Infrastructure and Transport of the Republic of Korea and was established to protect the Integrity ethics management is a necessary and sufficient condition growth and land utilization methods to respond to climate change to people’s land property rights and ensure the effective management of land. With the pride of an organization for the sustainable growth of LX. The company has reformed developing countries and continues to build a cooperative, win-win model with that has been developed with Korea’s modern and contemporary cadastral history, LX has been pursuing growth its “corruption reporting center” to allow anonymous reporting the operation of the “LX Spatial Information Foundation Support Center” in an based on “fundamentals” under a sense of mission to provide people with open land information services as a and held anti-corruption ethical management workshops in the effort to foster a business incubator ecosystem using spatial information. public institution. headquarters and district offices throughout the country. As a result of integrity culture promotion, we achieved grade 1 in AntiWe have developed our expertise through our passion and dedication to LX changed its name two years ago and widened its scope of business from the cadastral to the spatial corruption Initiative Assessment for 2 consecutive years. our national land. Our vision to become a global leader that ushers in the information business so as to improve the quality of life for individuals. The company does this by “offering a renaissance of the cadastral and spatial information businesses will only land and geospatial information repository by the people, for the people, and of the people.” Our objective is to LX, the 1st public institution to introduce NCS(National Competency be realized through ceaseless innovations to create a better future. LX will suggest ways to utilize our nation’s land in a more valuable manner and to pioneer the era of smart land where Standards) evaluation model, is being reborn as an exemplary evolve into a fully trusted, leading institution that specializes in national land diverse technologies and industries converge together. institution leading the ability-based recruitment by introducing information with its sustainable development strategies. We would be more “Blind Recruiting,” and was voted by the people as the Best than grateful for your support as we strive to achieve a better tomorrow. LX attained greater esteem after the news that Koreans selected the organization as the “Best Company to Company to Work For in Korea (in the public sector category), a Work For in Korea (in the public sector category).” It is also the first quasi-governmental agency to receive the ranking overseen by the GPTW Institute. “Consumer Centered Management (CCM)” certification and become the winner of the Korea Small and Medium November 2017 Enterprise Innovation Award in the category of the public-private partnership growth. CEO, LX Korea Land and Geospatial InformatiX Corporation In this context, the new future for LX that “adheres to consolidating its foundation” is based on “sustainable Park, Myoung-sik growth.” Thus, LX has reflected upon the path of our development and published a detailed record in the form of the “2017 Sustainability Report.” A Promise for a Better Future 08 2016-2017 Highlights News 09 Introduction to LX Korea Land and Geospatial InformatiX Corporation 10 Sustainability Management Initiative 11 Sustainability Management System 12 Stakeholders’ Materiality Assessment 16 Governance 18 New Growth Engine for the Future 08 2017 Sustainability Report A Promise for a Better Future A Leader in National Spatial Growing with the Trust of the Appendix 09 Information People 2016-2017 Highlights News Introduction to LX Korea Land and Geospatial InformatiX Corporation LX Overview In 1977, LX was established as the Korea Cadastral Survey Corporation LX VISION 2025 LX has set out to improve the efficiency of national land management Key Outcomes in a bid to protect the people’s property rights and promote the and people’s quality of life by executing government projects and advancement of cadastral survey technology and the cadastral system. supporting the establishment of policies. We consequently seek to be an Since then, it has changed its corporate name to the LX Korea Land and institution loved by the public by strengthening our social responsibility The endeavors which LX Korea Land and Geospatial InformatiX Major Awards and Certifications Geospatial InformatiX Corporation in June 2015 and we devote ourselves implementation and accountable management. LX will consolidate its Corporation made to realize the common good and to pursue to developing and providing the state-of-art technology applicable to the status as the national spatial information hub as well as a specialized sustainable growth with stakeholders as a public institution have been people’s daily lives. The newly launched LX aims at contributing to the institution that provides people with the national information service rewarded in various fields. LX will continue to strive to become the best 20 Ranked as the Best Company to Work For in Korea in the public sector category national development by assiduously fulfilling its role as the best and by cultivating experts and invigorating R&D for the management of specialized institution trusted by the people. 16 most trusted specialized national land information provider. integrated and convergent land information. 한국에서 가장 일하고 싶은 기업 (GPTW Institute, global trust management rating agency) General Status LX Management Strategy System Results of the Public Institution Management Evaluation Won the 2016 Korea SME Innovation Award in the category of the public-private partnership growth for the third Institution Name LX Korea Land and Geospatial InformatiX Corporation Mission consecutive year Head of the Park, Myoung-sik LX has obtained the top grade, A, in the public institution (National Commission for Corporate Partnership) Institution July 1, 1977 We will contribute to national development through cadastral survey management evaluation in 2016. Date of Establishment (Changed the corporate name to the LX Korea Land and Geospatial implementation, support of the establishment of a national spatial InformatiX Corporation on June 4th, 2015.) information system, and R&D in a spatial information cadastral system Basis for foundation Article 12 of The Framework Act on National Spatial Data Infrastructure Certified as an excellent institute for Consumer Centered Management (CCM) Number of Employees 4,115 persons (Korea Fair Trade Commission) Credit Rating AA0 (NICE Information Service, as of June 2017) Key Services Spatial information systems construction, cadastral surveying, technology R&D Vision 2013 2014 2015 2016 Capital KRW 10,000 million (As of Dec 31, 2016) Assets KRW 618,295 million (As of Dec 31, 2016) Revenues KRW 507,843 million (As of Dec 31, 2016) Key Sustainability Management News Location of HQ 120, Giji-ro, Wansan-gu, Jeonju-si, Jeollabuk-do, (Jung-dong) Headquarters, LX Education Institute, Spatial Information Research Institute, Major business sites 12 regional headquarters, and 172 district offices Our 40th Anniversary Marks Another Major Leap Forward to Success Main Business The best national land information Trusted by the people In July 1977, LX was founded as the Korea Cadastral Survey Corporation specialist LX undertakes five major businesses including national spatial information, and had been growing alongside the value of the national land. With cadastral survey, and cadastral resurvey, global business, and research the enforcement of three laws on spatial information including the “The Framework Act on National Spatial Data Infrastructure,” we have changed and education. In the age of the 4th industrial revolution where people, our corporate name to the LX Korea Land and Geospatial InformatiX things, and space are all connected to each other, we are making efforts Core Values Corporation. We continue to pursue national development and improve to enter the overseas market of spatial information business through quality of life of people though the use of national land information. the public-private partnership with private companies based on the high precision cadastral data. Against this backdrop, we intend to concentrate Introduction of Environmentally-friendly Land our capability on the research and education businesses in an attempt to Administration/Spatial Information Technologies Abroad prepare for rapid technological advancement and changes in demand and LX was one of the official guests to take part in the “4th Korea Green to secure new growth engines. Capitalizing on our infrastructure, we are Innovation Days” held in Tanzania in April 2017, and had an opportunity fully committed to expanding our spatial information business through Taking on the world’s Change for the Responsibility for the to introduce green growth in developing countries and land utilization win-win cooperation with private companies. challenges with new future people technology methods against climate change. In the event, LX’s presentations of two innovation cases and demonstration of UAV (drones) helped to bring more publicity to Korea’s excellent national land information technologies. National Spatial Promote the spatial information industry and provide spatial Information Business information service based on the effective building and management of the national spatial information system and the convergence of a Building-up a Win-win Spatial Information Business Start-up variety of spatial information Strategic Directions Ecosystem Cadastral Survey Business Register land information to the cadastral record managed by the government and provide quick and accurate cadastral service to protect the people’s property rights LX supports new start-up companies for the growth of the spatial Cadastral Resurvey Conduct the cadastral resurvey business and the world geodetic information industry and job creation. We have sealed an agreement with Business system conversion project to complete the Korean version of the Korea Foundation for Cooperation of Large&Small Business, Rural cadaster and construct a smart national land system by 2030 Affairs and opened “LX Spatial Information Foundation Support Center” Global Business This business spreads the cadastral and spatial information technology of Korea to developing countries, and leads the Creation of new in June 2017 to discover promising founders and to offer substantial digitalization of national land management around the world. growth engine for Leading Strengthening Leading social sustainable future growth support—such as business funds and space, IT infra, to name a few—for spatial information value realization Research and Reinforcing the future growth capacity by strengthening futurecadastral industry capabilities establishing new businesses. Education Business oriented R&D while fulfilling our social responsibility through public industry education and utilizing our educational resources 10 2017 Sustainability Report A Promise for a Better Future A Leader in National Spatial Growing with the Trust of the Appendix 11 Information People Sustainability Management Initiative Sustainability Management System Compliance with Global Sustainability Management Implementation of the Sustainable Development Goals LX Sustainability Management Strategy System Definition of Stakeholders Initiatives (SDGs) Building on the sustainability management vision of “sustainable LX has clarified the range of stakeholders by defining their As a global corporate citizen, LX strives to be an active participant UN SDGs national land information value creation with stakeholder participation,” characteristics. Our revamping of communication channels for different who fully meets its social responsibilities to international society. The term SDGs is an abbreviation for “Sustainable Development Goals” LX is implementing “LX Vision 2025” in conjunction with its sustainability stakeholders facilitates more active two-way communication such as We transparently disclose actual activities and performance in this (hereinafter SDGs). The SDGs and the follow-up goals of the United management strategy system. We will advance our sustainability reflecting stakeholders’ demands in management plan. We will prioritize report, in line with the implementation guidelines proposed by the Nations’ Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) are the greatest strategy system in consideration of its impact on key stakeholders and the trust of stakeholders in our management activities and become a global initiatives. LX actively demonstrates its intent to fulfill its social common goals that the United Nations and members of international future management direction. public institution loved by the people. responsibility for internal and external stakeholders and underpins LX’s society set out to attain from 2016 to 2030. The SDGs encompass 17 contribution to sustainable value creation. goals including the elimination of poverty and inequality, response to climate change, quality employment, etc. and 169 targets. Communication Channels for Different types of Stakeholders Countenancing the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) Vision of Sustainability Management Since 2007, LX has joined the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC), Regular Frequent an international convention on corporate social responsibilities, to Creating the Value of Sustainable National Land Information through People, National Assembly uphold the 10 principles in the four areas of human rights, labor, the Stakeholders Engagement People environment, and anti-corruption. To fully abide by the corporate social Interests of stakeholders Intensive communication channel responsibilities promoted by the UNGC, LX discloses the LX code of • ‌Strengthened public S ‌ patial Information functions Academy, PR center conduct and sustainability management achievements on its homepage • ‌Various information made ‌LX Land Info-e APP, gourmet and this report. available restaurant guide, overseas expansion support center Directions Tasks Government Government, Public Institutions Human rights/Labor • E‌ xpanding public roles in Interests of stakeholders Intensive communication channel the industry • E‌ nhancing R&D and • ‌Pivotal role in industrial F ‌ uture strategy content, Main Contents LX Response performance development spatial information Principle 1 Businesses should Along with the Code of Ethics, LX publicizes the basic • W‌ in-win development of • ‌Pursue national benefits newsletter support and respect the protection principles to realize ethical management with its related industries for citizens ‌Policy forum, conferences, of internationally proclaimed human LX Code of Conduct. We have established our own • S‌ upporting the spatial information magazine rights; and sustainability management Principle 2 Make sure that they are human rights management system based on Article 52 LX’s Response to Sustainable Development Goals Expanding our Public Role of partners (Compliance with International Management Norms) As a member of the international community, LX is committed to not complicit in human rights abuses. Customers Survey customers, Local Community Principle 3 Businesses should uphold of the LX Code of Conduct. We have also disclosed our the freedom of association and the human rights management declaration and formed taking part in the initiatives of the UN SDGs. In our effort to achieve Interests of stakeholders Intensive communication channel effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; a specialized team for human rights management as the SDGs, we are expanding our public role as a public institution • Accurate survey results L ‌ eaflets, brochures, a part of the effort. In addition, we operate a Future • ‌Enhanced service quality periodicals Principle 4 The elimination of all Growth Forum, Labor-management win-win conference and creating social values through our business. LX is focusing on forms of forced and compulsory labor; ‌Quick call center, that was founded on the principles of Article 51 identifying business models related to the SDGs by taking advantage • E‌ nhancing service quality homepage, SNS Principle 5 The effective abolition of (Harmony Between Labor and Management) of the LX management child labor; and Code of Conduct to stimulate communication between of its accumulated capacity through management activities. Through • I‌ ncreasing customer Principle 6 The elimination of discrimination in respect of labor and management and take a leading role in continued management on SDGs implementation models overlapping satisfaction activities protecting labor rights. • D‌ eveloping new services Experts, Academia employment and occupation. with our business domain, we will discover new growth opportunities Related Agencies Improvement of Quality and and contribute to solutions for the imminent challenges that face Service Interests of stakeholders Intensive communication channel Environment mankind. • ‌Expand the provision of S ‌ ymposium, PR consultation expert capability body Main Contents LX Response • Collaborative PR activities ‌National land internet broadcasting center, press Applying the principle of environmental protection Principle 7 Businesses should conference, LX supporters specified in Article 50 of the LX Code of Conduct, • I‌ ncreasing participation in support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; L X r u n s a n e n e r g y co u n c i l a n d i m p l e m e n t s the local community Goal 9. Establishment of the National Infrastructure 25 countermeasures against climate change through • I‌ nvesting in the Private Principle 8 Undertake initiatives (Railway) Spatial Information System p. Partner institutions to promote greater environmental greenhouse gas reduction. We also analyze the factors infrastructure of the local Partnership More detailed information is on page 25. responsibility; and influencing the environmental problems with the community Interests of stakeholders Intensive communication channel Principle 9 Encourage the spatial /statistical analyses based on Big Data and • C‌ aring for the Goal 11. Comprehensive Land Information Management • ‌Win-win and public-private N ‌ ational land expo, on33 development and diffusion of propose appropriate measures to tackle fundamental Realizing Social Contribution underprivileged System Construction Business p. partnership growth the-go lectures, expert environmentally friendly technologies. environmental problems. • ‌Youth unemployment, job education, talk concerts More detailed information is on page 33. creation ‌LX Spatial Information Foundation Support Center, Anti-corruption Goal 16. 39 Promotion of the Integrity Network workshops p. More detailed information is on page 39. Main Contents LX Response Employees and the Trade Union Employees To internalize ethical management among all its Goal 8. • H‌ iring and fostering a 43 Interests of stakeholders Intensive communication channel employees, LX discloses its basic principles of ethical Expansion of the Spatial Information Academy professional workforce p. • ‌Sustainability Management management including Article 1. General Provision, More detailed information is on page 43. • I‌ mproving educational F ‌ ield visit, video conference, Principle 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, Article 4. Fair Work Performance, Article 5. Prohibition of programs • ‌Create a great place to labor-management including extortion and bribery. Accepting Undue Profits, and Article 6. Compliance with • W‌ ork-life balance work consultative body Goal 4. Fostering Professional Human 51 Clean Contract Proposal, while carrying various efforts Provision of Customized Training ‌Intranet, house journal, p. Resources to spread ethical management to all stakeholders with More detailed information is on page 51. workshop the promotion of a clean network. 12 2017 Sustainability Report A Promise for a Better Future A Leader in National Spatial Growing with the Trust of the Appendix 13 Information People Stakeholders’ Materiality Assessment Materiality Assessment Process LX founds its sustainability management activities based on its stakeholders’ participation. We Communication with Key The interviews with key stakeholders from different groups provide LX a venue to introduce the identify the relevant sustainability management issues through international standards, media, Stakeholders current statuses of LX’s sustainability management and to listen their opinions on what they benchmarking, etc. as well as various stakeholders’ opinions obtained from questionnaires and are satisfied with and areas that require improvement. We will continue reflecting the opinions interviews. These activities have allowed LX to select a total of 12 sustainability management core of stakeholders in our management activities and do our best to become an undisputedly issues in need of intensive management and reflect them in this report. Core issues will be shared trustworthy institution for the people. by the main department where they are used to set up the directions for countermeasures and the establishment of objectives in the future. Step 1 Composition of Step 2 Confirmation from the Stakeholders through Interviews If there is an area in which LX can help its employees to exert their best As a representative partner, what do you expect from LX in Sustainability capabilities in their given positions by paying greater attention, then terms of the win-win public-private partnership? Management Issues What is the issue to which LX needs to heed special attention if it is to draw higher satisfaction what would it be? from its main stakeholders and customers, the people, while fulfilling its obligation? [Training Top-level Experts] In the age of artificial intelligence, we should discard [Public-Private Partnership System for Mutual Growth] As [Providing Valuable Land Information] LX carries out the role of protecting individuals’ Key issues were identified in terms of LX’s the past traditional concept of space and reconstruct a new one. Today, space the forerunner of the specialized cadastral business and spatial property rights and helping to realize the effective use of land, the basis of a nation, as the sustainability management through media and spatial information transcend the tangible environment such as the land information business, LX is devoted to building a spatial information primary institution in charge of land information management and cadastral survey. As far as research, benchmarking, international and the sky, expanding into an intangible environment like cyber space. Hence, ecosystem, using its accumulated knowhow and cutting-edge I understand, LX has secured a high level of technological competencies through advanced standard analysis, and internal and external it is necessary for LX to seek the effective management of national land space spatial information technologies. As LX runs a Spatial Information technology management and industry-academia cooperation in the fields of spatial information materials. and sustainable development based on its particularity as a cadastral survey Academy to transfer its professional technological capacity to the and cadastral survey. Based on the competitiveness that we has attained throughout its work, LX and spatial information company. LX is a group of experts armed with abundant private sector, it helps partner companies a great deal. I expect is broadening its area of business into the global market, subsequently creating jobs in the private knowledge and various experience in the field and optimized to explore new that LX could lay a foundation on which private partner companies sector and supporting the overseas sales of SMEs. If LX commits more effort to R&D and fostering business areas. I think it is of great importance for LX to keep on hiring talented can grow by developing various support activities such as business related industries so that they can overcome the challenges of an information-centered future, as Media Research individuals and operate a talent cultivation program to develop them as top-level start-up support programs and Hope Funds and develop a spatial well as provide people with more effective and valuable national land information, I am certain experts. Providing employees with the relevant training will serve as a basis on information industry ecosystem where genuine mutual growth is that the people’s trust and satisfaction with them would grow even further. Press and media articles from January which LX can attain sustainable growth. achieved through a systemic private-public cooperation scheme. 2016 to June 2017 about the sustainability management activities of LX in terms of the economy, society and environment were compiled. Analysis of Issues Pertinent to The People The Academia The Private Partnership Related Agencies Cho, Jeong-sik Jho, Wha-sun Director Kim, Sung-ho CEO C o m m o n ke y i s s u e s i n t h e p u b l i c Member of the National Institute of State Governance EGIS Co., Ltd. sector were delineated by reviewing Assembly Studies, Yonsei University sustainability management reports prepared by major public institutions and the related agencies under the umbrella The Government The Local Community The Employee of the Ministry of Land, Infrastructure and Transport. Kim, Seung-gi Senior Expert Advisor Lee, Jong-sung President Park, Hyun-jin Employee Land Infrastructure and Transport Community Chest of Korea, Seogwuipo branch, Jeju Regional Committee, National Assembly Jeollabuk-do Headquarters Analysis of International Standards If there is an area to which LX should put more effort to attain sustainable growth with As there is an increasing need for the establishment of a sustainable As a first employee from the Industry Professional Practice Global standards and initiatives pertinent to sustainability management including its stakeholders, what would it be? social contribution system, what direction should LX guide itself? Is (IPP), what do you think of LX’s recruitment policy and the GRI Standards, ISO 26000, UNGC, and there anything you wish to see from LX in that regard? what do you expect from LX for the future? [Leading Sustainable Development] So far, LX has exerted significant influence over UN SDGs were examined. Korea’s sustainable development in terms of efficient land management and value creation [Social Contribution with Local Communities] After moving to Jeonbuk [Fair Youth Job Creation] With growing social interest in as a leading institution in the field of national spatial information system support, R&D on Innovation City, I’ve learned that LX carries on sustainable social contribution job creation for the youth in public institutions, there are Reviewing Internal Data cadastral systems, and cadastral surveys. Since its move to Jeonju, Jeollabuk-do in 2013, activities with LX’s own stories. I trust that the true role of the LX within the local various systems in place including ability-based recruitment, LX has been working on active communication with the local community, one of the key community is to gather opinions from the community, and that the institution blind recruitment, etc. In my case, I was one of the Industry Sustainability management issues stakeholders, and persistently pursuing a public-private partnership growth with partners. considers them as it executes practical programs. By doing so, LX proposes a Professional Practice (IPP) students. I learned about the practical were identified from business reports, In that regard, I would give LX a positive evaluation. As the institution that assigns value direction for the establishment of the social contribution system. The Jeollabukbusiness for 5 months and was given an opportunity to pursue management performance evaluation, key to the land, the backbone of any nation, I expect that LX will renew itself as a sustainable do Social Welfare Community Chest also conducts various projects annually for my dream. As the members of the group constitute the source agendas of the board meetings, and the corporation that gives more attention to building trust through maintaining steady disadvantaged people, social welfare facilities, and groups within the community. of competitiveness in a company, I expect that a passionate and CEO’s New Year’s address. communication with the people while seeking to create positive impacts on the environment In the future, I expect that cooperation with LX would empower those in need by talented young people will create a quality work environment and society. providing proactive and sustained help in the local community. and become a growing LX. 14 2017 Sustainability Report A Promise for a Better Future A Leader in National Spatial Growing with the Trust of the Appendix 15 Information People Stakeholders’ Materiality Assessment Step 3 Materiality Assessment Test Results of the Materiality Assessment Test Based on the list of sustainability management issues, the materiality assessment test is conducted after reflecting internal/external stakeholders’ degree of interest, expert assessments, an internal review, and other factors. In particular, we strengthened the structure of our stakeholder questionnaires so NO Core Issues Impact on Business that we can assess the impact of each issue on LX in four aspects: finance, operations, strategy, and reputation. Through this, we will identify the impact 1 Effort to improve customer satisfaction characteristics of each issue and utilize it to establish a strategic sustainability management system. Ability-based recruitment and job creation 11 1 5 2 2 Invest in social infrastructure and win-win with the local community 4 3 3 9 Financial Impact Operational Impact 7 4 Identifying a new sustainable growth engine for the future Create an enjoyable working environment 6 This issue affects the financial performance of the This issue affects business activities and 12 10 5 company in a short-term, direct and indirect way. processes. 8 6 Fortify service accountability Reinforce social contribution activities based on LX’s characteristics and regional bases 7 8 Expand R&D and infra Impact Assessment by Strategic Impact Issue Reputational Impact Building a transparent management system that promotes ethics and integrity 9 This issue affects the company’s management This issue affects trust from stakeholders unless 10 Efforts to diffuse awareness of public-private partnership growth to partners goals and growth direction from a long-term properly managed. perspective. 11 Advancing and expanding into the global market Interest level of Stakeholders 12 Operate a system to support partners Step 4 Identification and Reflection of Core Issues in Sustainability Management Based on stakeholder interests and impact on business, LX has selected 12 core issues and determined 7 report themes in accordance with the GRI standards. This not only creates a detailed report on the materiality of issues by different topics and future actions to be taken by LX, but also reflects influence factors assessed by stakeholders in the report. Impact Assessment by Issue Page NO Core Issues GRI Topic Reporting Topic Reporting Contents Finance Operation Strategies Reputation Reference 4 Identifying a new sustainable growth engine for the future ● • Identification of the Future New Growth Agenda • ‌Future New Growth Directions New Growth Engine • New Growth Agenda Pool and Task Set-up Expand R&D and infra ● Economic Performance p.18-19 for the Future 8 11 Advancing and expanding into the global market ● • P ‌ romotion of Social Responsibility Management via • Realization of Clean LX Values Anti-corruption Ethical Management Building a transparent management system that promotes ethics and integrity ● ● ● Ethical Management p.38-40 Anti-competitive Behavior 9 • Building a Transparent LX Together Efforts to diffuse awareness of public-private partnership growth to partners ● ● ● • Win-win Synergy to Open Up a New Paths to Growth • ‌Fair Trading Culture to Foster a Level Playing Public-Private Partnership 10 Supplier Social Assessment Field for SMEs p.42-43 Growth 12 Operate a system to support partners ● ● ● • E ‌ xpansion of Open Recruitment Based on • ‌A Leading Public Job Creator in the Private 2 Ability-based recruitment and job creation ● ● Employment Job Creation Competencies Sector p.44-45 1 Effort to improve customer satisfaction ● ● • P ‌ rovide an Outstanding Customer-Centered LX • ‌One Step Ahead Customer Satisfaction Customer Privacy Customer Satisfaction Service Service p.46-47 6 Fortify service accountability ● ● • LX that Communicates with Customers 3 Invest in social infrastructure and win-win with the local community ● • M ‌ ature Pursuit as a Leading Social Contribution • ‌Value of Sincerity Augmented by LX’s Sharing Indirect Economic Impacts Local Community Institution p.50-51 7 Reinforce social contribution activities based on LX’s characteristics and regional bases ● • H ‌ eartwarming Sharing with People • L ‌ X’s Talent to Create the Future Value of Our Land • ‌LX, a Great Place to Work Human Resources • E ‌ stablishment of Fair and Transparent Personnel • ‌Harmonious and Win-win Labor-Management Create a enjoyable working environment ● ● Training and Education p.52-54 Management 5 Management System Culture 16 2017 Sustainability Report A Promise for a Better Future A Leader in National Spatial Growing with the Trust of the Appendix 17 Information People Governance Composition and Operation of the Board of Directors Strengthen Expertise in the Board of Directors Composition of the Committees Building on the principle of autonomous and responsible management, Operation of the Board of Directors LX is committed to recruiting non-executive directors who are wellManagement Committee the Board of Directors makes decisions on key management issues in an There were total of 13 regular board meetings held in 2016 with a versed in law, accounting, and the business expertise necessary for independent manner. The Board of Directors has earnestly performed participation rate of 93.8%. The Board of Directors has deliberated and proper management of an enterprise so as to provide the organization Deliberating on issues related to its obligations by transparently deliberating and determining important passed a total of 89 agendas (30 resolutions and 59 reported items). with constructive criticism and check on the internal managerial Roles management, financial management, legal system and regulations, etc. matters on management activities by holding regular board meetings, activities. Particularly, LX offers managerial information to nonexpert committees, non-executive director meetings, and Board of executive directors on a real-time basis to encourage them to contribute Director meetings as needed. their ideas and fully employ their expertise. Areas of Expertise Composition Operation of the BOD Organization, HR, Information Non-executive Composition of the Board of Directors management director Kim, Yeong-mi No. of The Board of Directors consists of 4 executive directors including the Times Board 35 president and 6 non-executive directors who possess the capabilities Meetings were North Korean information, Non-executive Doh, Hee-yoon to run the organization and relevant expertise. In accordance with Convened 28 Unification, Social welfare director Paragraph 4 of Article 18 of the 「Act on the Management of Public 26 (unit: time) Institutions」, the president, as the CEO, also serves the Chairman Finance, Labor, Transportation, ‌ Non-executive Song, Yeong-nam of the Board of Directors. Executive directors are appointed by the HR development director president, whereas non-executive directors are nominated by the Minister of Land, Infrastructure, and Transport for more than half of the Executive Assets, HR, Finance, Social welfare Kwon, Ki-joong Board. All directors have rights to make independent decisions, and director they also have their own independent obligations to uphold. There is no specific qualification restriction on directors in terms 2014 2015 2016 Technical Committee of education, gender, religion, and birthplace or ethnicity. Above * ‌The number of board meetings held includes BOD meetings, expert all, directors must be qualified in terms of managerial knowledge, committees, non-executive director meetings, etc. experience, expertise, and integrity. Deliberating on issues related to spatial Roles information, cadastral systems, survey Auditors participate in the Board of Directors to offer their opinions in technology, business development, etc. the decision-making process and monitor how managerial decisions are put into practice. 9th On-site Board Meeting, 2017 (Vehicle-based multisensory surveying system) Areas of Expertise Composition No. of Agendas (unit: ea.) 91 GIS, Spatial information analysis, Non-executive Lee, Hee-yeon Classification Name Title 89 89 Operation of the Expert Committee Statistics, Industrial location director LX operates the Expert Committee system to utilize the expertise of • CEO Park, Myoung-sik non-executive directors. The Expert Committee is composed of a Civil engineering, Constructing, Non-executive • Chairman Park, Hee-sang management committee whose members are experts in the field of Surveying, Geospatial information director management, law, and others and a technical committee consisting of Ahn, Jong-ho • V‌ ice-President and Head of the Planning Group Executive experts in the organization’s business fields such as spatial information, Management, Informatization (ERP, Non-executive Lim, Jae-ik director cadastral systems, and so on. Individual committees are engaged in spatial information), Globalization director Cho, Man-seung • Head of the Cadastral Business Group assisting the BOD’s reasonable decision-making as they conduct indepth review on items of their respective fields that are raised prior to Overall LX businesses, Survey Executive Cho, Man-seung Kwon, Ki-joong • Head of the Management Support Group 2014 2015 2016 the board meetings. technology director More Communication with Non-executive Directors • ‌Senior non-executive director Kim, Yeong-mi • ‌Professor, Department of Public Administration, Sangmyung University LX’s major business fields include spatial information and cadastral Evaluation and Compensation of the Board of Directors • ‌Professor, Department of Environmental Planning, Board Meeting surveying, and the company assigns individual non-executive directors Lee, Hee-yeon Graduate School of Environmental Studies, Seoul Attendance 98.1 to different regions to enhance their understanding of our business. A To ensure fair, transparent evaluations and compensation for the National University Rate 96.1 program run by LX enables them to experience what is like to be the Board of Directors, LX conducts their performance evaluations in 93.8 Doh, Hee-yoon • ‌President, Happy Unification Road (unit: %) president or the head of a district office for one day at 12 headquarters accordance with the relevant laws and guidelines. The CEO enters Non-executive and 172 district offices throughout the nation. This program also helps into a management contract on the management goals and major director • ‌Managing Director in charge of civil engineering, us to secure a direct communication channel with employees. Our tasks with the Minister of Land, Infrastructure and Transport and is Park, Hee-sang Mooyong Construction Management efforts to achieve revitalized communication between non-executive subject to regular evaluations of management performance of the directors and those in the fields extend to the process of requesting CEO by the heads of government agencies. Executive directors sign job • ‌Professor, Department of Economics, Jeonbuk Song, Yeong-nam National University advice and special lectures. In addition, our BOD’s mobile homepage performance contracts with the CEO and are remunerated according to creates a synergistic effect for management activities as it serves to be a the executive salary regulations. Non-executive directors are rewarded Lim, Jae-ik • ‌Professor, Department of e-Business, Ajou platform in which management information sharing among directors is in accordance with the 「Guideline on Remuneration of Executives of University 2014 2015 2016 promoted and their individual performances are monitored. Public Institution」 set up by the Ministry of Strategy and Finance. 18 2017 Sustainability Report A Promise for a Better Future A Leader in National Spatial Growing with the Trust of the Appendix 19 Information People New Growth Engine for the Future Identification of the Future New Growth Agenda New Growth Agenda Pool and Task Set-up Future New Growth Directions Background of Selecting Core Issues A s a people-centered, specialized institution in the field of Establishment and Utilization of Infrastructure to Unified Now the world is facing in an ever-accelerating transition into Agenda Pool Priority analysis comprehensive national land information, LX has identified and set up Survey of the National Land Information a new industrial era called the 4th Industrial Revolution. It is of the future new growth agenda in consideration of not just of business ① ‌Unified survey of the national land ↑ By unifying national land information survey systems operated by the information 5points ⑥ ① ② critical importance for companies to secure the effectiveness of profitability, but also overarching public interests. LX established five ② ‌Comprehensive quality management government, LX attempts to assume a new public role by increasing Amount of Retained Capacity ③ ‌Total management of the national 4points ③ ⑤ ④ new services and content such as IoT, augmented reality, Big major tasks, in response to the forecast of changes in the managerial location information the efficiency of management. In this regard, the company would like ⑦ Data, and more. Technology development and service innovation 3points ④ ‌Establishment of the national spatial environment, internal competency analysis, etc., to ensure sustainable information hub to conduct specialized national land information business in the field leads not just to an individual enterprise’s economic benefits growth. These tasks are being implemented in line with the mid-to 2points of policy suggestions such as the fact-finding survey of vacant houses, ⑤ ‌Core convergence technologies based but also to social value creation. This compels us to establish long-term strategic tasks. on R&D 1points national land information monitoring projects and the pilot project of ⑥ Spatial information DB building project preemptive strategies to discover new growth engines. 1points 2points 3points 4points 5points integrated survey for municipalities. ⑦ Broadened overseas expansion The level of public roles → Selected as the lead institute of policy study of the Ministry of Land, LX’s Response Plan ⑧ ‌Cadastral surveying own area and * ‌⑧ Cadastral surveying and resurveying are at the highest level of competence and public function, Infrastructure and Transport cadastral resurveying but led by government policies. Korea Land and Geospatial InformatiX Corporation has been Reinforce Reliability with National Spatial Information Draw lessons from Prepare response strategies for seeking to become the world’s finest national land information environment analysis and lessons and functional adjustment Quality Control New growth Mid-to long-term provider based on spatial information developed with the people. future forecast implementation Agenda policy Necessity of the Agenda As the national spatial information quality control institution designated We will carry out our role as a new social value creator based on Change prediction Prepare for response Unified survey • ‌Support national spatial by the Ministry of Land, Infrastructure and Transport since July 2016, LX and analysis 1 2 strategies • U ‌ nify and effectively manage various constant innovation and an enterprising spirit. of national land information policy government-led land survey systems is committed to providing unified spatial information by incorporating information projects administrative and spatial information in various fields. In so doing, the • L ‌ ay a foundation for convergence Comprehensive • R ‌ einforce public industry including standardization of company intends to strengthen the national spatial information infra 2016 Key Achievements Future new growth task identification quality management functions of cadastral & spatial information spatial information and quality control of and the reliability of spatial information. confirmation surveying process • E ‌ stablish national land information Resource distribution Identifying necessary National spatial • ‌Support national spatial management system Designated as the National Spatial Information Quality Control Institution Establishment of the National Spatial Information and implementation 4 3 tasks information hub information policy • E ‌ nhance applicability of spatial information Received a Presidential Citation projects for the public Foster proper conditions for Discover new growth agenda Working as the National Spatial Information Hub for People implementation and expand • S ‌ ecure competitiveness for the domestic and establish a plan Core convergence • ‌Fortify future-oriented In response to interests in spatial information by the people and support Selected as a Model Organization industry by reinforcing technological technologies R&D capacities applicable for the 4th industry government, LX is striving to generate valuable spatial information for the overseas expansion of e-government (Ministry of the Interior) Broadened overseas • P ‌ rovide more services • Creation of national interest and LX revenue with various stakeholders. With proactive communication with the utilizing spatial • ‌Pioneering an overseas market for domestic expansion information companies people, LX will be a hub institution that offers the national spatial Won the National Standardization Award information necessary for people in an accurate and prompt manner. (Ministry of Trade, Industry and Energy) SWOT Analysis and Performance Goals Supporting the Infra to Implement the New Growth Agenda In Pursuit of Advancing the National Spatial Information Portal To pursue the new growth agenda, LX strives to realize new growth Development of Future-oriented Core Convergence Strength Weakness engines by strengthening its executive ability with increased budgets for Internal Technologies Stakeholder Impact Assessment the tasks and the recruitment of specialists and establishing a strategic • ‌Investment and support • ‌Limited public service Competency capability for the contents and communication In response to unexpected environmental change and technological development of cadastral & channel organizational reform roadmap. To ensure systemic management over The survey on stakeholder interests confirmed that, regarding spatial information industry strides, the company is devoted to solidifying the foundation of • ‌Regular management and • ‌Initial state of building public business performance, the company carries out regular monitoring of the impact of the new growth engine for LX’s future, internal Managerial cadastral survey using service in the field of spatial the national spatial information industry by equipping itself with Environment institutions throughout the information its business performance while establishing a partnership system for stakeholders placed more stress on management strategies and country competitive core competencies. In the interest of sustainable growth, responding promptly to internal and external environmental changes. short-term finance. External stakeholders, however, tended to put the company focuses its efforts on continued R&D investment and a high priority on the mid-to long-term management strategies. Opportunity Strength Building (SO) Opportunity Implementation (WO) human resource capability development. In particular, the company Partnership System to Manage the New Growth Agenda Performance • ‌Spatial information • ‌Strengthen government • ‌Develop & diffuse will progress to become a specialized institution that contributes to cultivation policy to lead the policy support for the service contents for the Finance 4th industrial revolution in the development of cadastral & development of industry industrial development by sharing its core infra including technology world spatial information field LX Management Innovation Team • ‌Convergence technology • ‌Reinforce R&D expansion • ‌Construct Institution’s own researches, specialized training, etc., over the entire industry ecosystem encompassing the government and private sector. development and increased and utilization based on our spatial information infra early demand in the private sector know-how and prepare for utilization for spatial information strategies Prepare future growth strategies Lead management innovations Selected as the Lead Institution for Spatial Information Data Retention Technology Monitor any changes in the business Threat Response to Threats (ST) Overcoming Challenge (WT) Mid-to long-term organization reform environment Greater Overseas Expansion in Cooperation with the Private Sector Reputation Operation • ‌Drastic environmental • S ‌ ecure business infrastructure • ‌Pursue joint business using changes including by preemptive investment for LX’s own infra Building on the accumulated Korean-style land administration system government policies and the development of industry real-estate business, etc. and technological advantages in spatial information, LX tries to expand • ‌Increased demand for private • ‌Discover government policy • ‌Beef up autonomous Planning and Manage performance in line with the company-wide participation in the public support contents that innovation in institution Coordination Office strategic tasks overseas business. Capitalizing on its global network, LX will advance business areas enables win-win cooperation between institution and such as more efficient management and creation of the national spatial information field of developing countries with Performance Assess the executed performances and provide private businesses new growth engine Management Dept. incentives private companies and take the lead as a global spatial information Strategies Internal stakeholders specializer by contributing to the growth of the national economy. Check the task implementation status by individual External stakeholders Performance Create new growth engine/more effective management/ Business Group group Global Business in 24 countries goals improved public service A Leader in National Spatial Information 22 National Spatial Information 26 Cadastral Survey 29 Cadastral Resurvey 30 Global Business 34 Research and Education 22 2017 Sustainability Report A Promise for a Better Future A Leader in National Spatial Growing with the Trust of the Appendix 23 Information People National Spatial Information All Information on the National Land, Spatial Opening the Future with Spatial Information Fact Finding Survey of Vacant Houses and Data Management Establishment of a National Land Information Monitoring Information Technology of their Current Status System Based on Drone (UAV) The specialized fact-finding survey and systemic status management on LX is pursuing the establishment of the national land information Spatial information refers to maps and all information that can be Ever since the term “4th Industrial Revolution” was introduced in the vacant houses helps realize a more stable residential environment and monitoring system based on UAV in the latter half of 2017. In 2015, expressed on a map to provide knowledge about certain locations, Davos Forum in 2016, many have expected that it would generate higher residential satisfaction, thus ultimately contributing to a better LX was the first organization to create a UAV-based national land distributions, and more. Today, spatial information is indispensable tremendous consequences in every area of society and economy. quality of life in Korea. LX will combine field investigations with surveys information monitoring system in Korea. It also and developed a UAVinformation for our daily lives. It spans from information on properties The LX national land information base map would accommodate VR to select candidates for vacant houses and to identify causes for vacant based service model in partnership with the private sector. As of such as the boundaries of arable lands and the status of agricultural technology, allowing us to get 3-dimensional information about the houses by using advanced spatial analysis techniques. 2017, the company has obtained and manages extensive UAV images products to information on natural resources to indicate the national land. This will create a virtual space where anyone could easily equivalent to around 78 times the size of Yeouido. locations of water, greenery, or mountains. It is largely classified as access information about real estate or hidden hot spots. It would Fact-finding Survey of Vacant Houses and Information System Operation national spatial information and urban spatial information and thus usher in the era of autonomous driving automobiles that operate with Support for the FIFA U-20 World Cup Korea 2017 with LXProcedures managed accordingly. Aside from the national spatial information artificial intelligence through a development of high precision e-maps UAV such as topography, land utilization, and the natural environment, for autonomous driving based on intellectual spatial information. LX has fully cooperated with requests regarding drone operations to Collect and integrate Establish spatial LX comprehensively collects and manages urban spatial information The widened use of drones would assist in lifesaving operations and prepare against external threats such as terrorist activities during the 1 information information including roads, land, and facilities to provide a reprocessed version of searches for missing people. Drones would also make it possible to FIFA Under-20 World Cup held in Korea. To meet the expectations of Build system / DB this information so that it is suitable for daily use. collect various national land information unbounded by any hindrances, successful hosting and ensure national security of this international thus resulting in greater administrative convenience. LX internal data external data event, the company has served its public obligations as the leading UAV Electric energy = 0 organization in the public sector. LX Service to Care for the People 2 Find targets and support the Drone Show Korea 2017 fact-finding survey Building The Representative Brand of Spatial Information Service, Check LX took part in Drone Show Korea 2017 organized by the Ministry of the National Spatial Information Portal orthoimage Trade, Industry and Energy and Busan Metropolitan city to invigorate The National Spatial Information Portal is an integrated platform the drone industry. LX introduced a range of UAV convergence Select targets Roads that integrates and provides around 1,300 types of national spatial technology including UAV platforms, 3D contents, VR experiences, UAV information dispersed in 11 existing systems, including the Integrated control simulation installations and UAV convergence new technology, Generate a survey National Spatial Information System, Vworld, Onnara real-estate report etc., and proactively led the event. The company also promoted a Cadastral of Land, portal, etc. It is expected that the portal site will raise the usage and Produce a factconvergence service model based on UAV convergence new technology administration border applicability of spatial information through various fields by opening finding survey report and brought attention to the need for joint cooperation with the private and sharing all synchronized data from data production institutions to sector in the LX UAV pilot workshop, which was held as an additional Terrain service utilization organizations. Mobile investigation event. 3 Fact-finding survey Advancing LX Land Info-e LX is improving the function of contents of the LX Land Info-e app to Diagnose a improve service quality and accessibility. As a specialized organization Field investigation vacant house and interview in land/spatial information, we take the lead in minimizing real-estate fraud or any damage caused by false investments by fulfilling our public Spatial Information Generate a map responsibilities and making sure of stable land transactions. 4 Vacant house diagnosis Current LX Land Info-e app Users and status information Time Series Management (TSM) (unit: person) management Service name 2014 2015 2016 Diagnose types Evacuation Information 38,037 16,554 10,592 Understanding of Standard Spatial Information and the and maintenance Land Information service 58,092 98,307 137,565 * ‌Opened a convenient portal service providing information on national, public, and Role of LX private spatial information (http://www.nsdi.go.kr) directions PR center 21,580 12,422 18,087 A standard is defined as the unification of type, quality, shape, size, Surveying fees 1,140 29,999 39,780 etc., of a product to increase convenience and efficiency. Standards Create a thematic Current status map Story of Tastes 2,869 15,525 16,717 are regulated throughout entire industries, and the standards in The Basic National Spatial Information, Serial Cadastral Map information management 1 Night 2 Days 4,610 the field of spatial information are made up of consistent technical LX is establishing the management and application plans on serial Tour in the Smart City of specifications or rules that are necessary for effective production, cadastral maps for the commissioned operation of the basic national Jecheon 1,980 Analysis model management, distribution, and utilization. LX supports the spatial information. This will enable the company to create a serviceable Transmission of the position in 2,447 government’s standardization policies and conducts various standard and obtainable market through quality control and the use of serial 5 Information utilization an emergency situation supporting activities including special training and consulting on the cadastral maps. To realize this, LX is preparing for the necessary legal service Total 121,718 172,807 231,778 topic of standards. The company broadens its competency to provide basis to carry out public obligations and the use for commissioned Vacant house Spatial analysis and * ‌Starting from 2016, we are offering 3 additional services which are ‘1 Night ‌ a favorable environment for enterprises based on the expansion of the operation of serial cadastral maps. The company is also endeavoring to diagnosis brokerage 2 Days,’ ‘Tour in the Smart City of Jecheon’ and ‘Transmission of the position basic standards. maintain the quality of the serial cadastral map with an expert system. in an emergency situation.’ 24 2017 Sustainability Report A Promise for a Better Future A Leader in National Spatial Growing with the Trust of the Appendix 25 Information People National Spatial Information Link to SDGs: Establishment of the National Infrastructure (Railway) Spatial Information System LX Spatial Information Start-up Support Funding and Infrastructure Investment for Start-up In conjunction with the government, LX raised funds to expand support for start-ups in the field of spatial information. LX provides a business site or the seed money to pre-entrepreneurs and small companies 9.1 ‌Develop quality, reliable, sustainable that have some feasible ideas on spatial information yet lack of Goal 9 Sustainable Industry Infrastructure Innovation and resilient infrastructure, business footholds. This helps them achieve stable business growth Start-up Funding Start-up Infra Investment including regional and transborder 800 720 and also creates jobs. The initiative helps LX to be engaged in winThe 9th task of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) is intended to build a resilient infrastructure, promoting infrastructure, to support economic win cooperation with the private sector as a public organization and inclusive and sustainable industrialization and fostering innovation. Using the spatial information infrastructure, development and human wellKRW million KRW million increases the use and value of the National Land Information Base Map. LX Korea Land and Geospatial InformatiX Corporation provides a spatial information system for the core national being, with a focus on affordable infrastructure and proposes effective and intelligent methods for national land management. and equitable access for all * Start-up funding and infrastructure investment are accumulated since 2016. Application for Win-win Supporters for the Youth/Start-up Korea ‌ Program Foundation for The Ministry As part of the “Win-win Supporters for the Youth/Start-up Program,” LX Background Cooperation of of Land, Large&Small Infrastructure and and the Korea Foundation for Cooperation of Large&Small Business, Business, Rural Transport Rural Affairs annually invite start-ups (in the preparation stage) to Necessity of the Introduction of Railway Spatial Information LX Spatial Information Today, there is an increasing demand for establishing accurate Affairs Foundation Support Center promote the establishment of new businesses in the field of spatial information systems for individual countries’ national infrastructures information. LX aims to stimulate the spatial information industry with Identification of problems and measures for improvement (roads, railways, rivers, ports, etc.). It is necessary for these national in existing railway facility management comprehensive support for new start-ups through the successful launch infrastructures to not just have planning, design, and construction, but of their businesses and successful entrance into the global market. they must also attain life-cycle based operation through information Inefficient drawing Difficulty in applying ‌ Insufficient response to management new technologies accidents and disasters systems, government-driven information integration, and more. Spatial Information-related Start-ups Support Promote the Geo-Dream Center Recently, there have been various issues and systemic research efforts LX provides a specialized start-up program for private or small and related to accidents and disasters in the railway industry. This means Establishment of the Railway Spatial Information System medium enterprises-related to spatial information with innovative there is a growing demand for a system to build, integrate, and supply ideas to enhance the nation’s global competitive edge in the spatial railway-related spatial information to support decision-making for Digitalizing of drawings Application of new Prompt response to accidents technologies and disasters information industry. The company is constructing a cloud-based data railway-related systems. Providing and managing LX Spatial Information center to allow anyone to easily access high quality spatial information Effective facility management Establishing a flexible system facility information quickly and K-Startup Management National Spatial via digitalizing of drawings to apply new technology Foundation Support System Information Center (NS) anytime, anywhere. It also supports shared offices that are open for accurately Center people without restriction. In addition, the company supports the one• ‌Government and LX • ‌Searching for pre• ‌Providing metadata on stop start-up program that encompasses marketing, PR, and legal Scale and Scope of the Business cooperative funding for entrepreneurs, start-ups spatial information start-ups • Business incubating • ‌Discovering new items for assistance, thereby contributing to the revitalization of the spatial Foster the foundation for railway system safety control open competitions via GIS location-based, unified drawings + ledger system information industry’s ecosystem. More often than not, the scale and budgets in the railway sector are so huge that a private company would not be able to take charge of spatial 1 information projects in that industry. Therefore, LX participates in the LX Spatial Information Start-Up Support Details 2017 (1st stage) Seoul Expected Effects from the Introduction of the Railway Spatial Information Railway Information Strategy Planning (ISP) to induce the introduction • ‌Provide education & training for spatial information and increase of spatial information based on reliable data and seeks to implement a • ‌Free business site rental in the LX Spatial As is To be Start-up support for overseas markets spatial information business in the railway field. Information Foundation Support Center infrastructure 2 • ‌Provide virtualization server, copy machine, fax, Data · ‌Unit information based on Transition to · R‌ eal-world, location-based and internet access fees Structure drawing/ledger a dynamic Data information based on Structure • ‌Free supply of spatial information data owned by · ‌Used for construction, information coordinates Establishment LX and the national spatial information center 2019 (2nd stage) Sejong system Activities and Performance completion, and history · C‌ onsider the overall cycle 3 Timing • ‌Provide a web-based spatial analysis service ‌ management Life-cycle encompassing design, (LX Big Data platform) • ‌Establish the infra to supply Spatial range · ‌Local form by project & construction, repair, and management, etc. public information line In addition, LX assists the private sector in taking part in the railway · ‌Include unique Spatial range · N‌ ation-wide, single point, integrated information construction information Capacity building spatial information business including the construction and processing Advantages specific to a drawing · S‌ ecure unified information • ‌Mentoring from spatial information and market · ‌History management by Preserve with an integrated of spatial information, system development, etc. In regard to the advantages specialists 2020 (3rd stage) Jeonju project information system national railway plan and design, the company supports the utilization · E‌ nable quick renewals and • ‌Provide education and training related to the Spatial · ‌Difficult to apply to Overcoming Advantages application Information Academy and regular seminars integrated information • ‌Link with the regional start-up of as-built drawings for land compensation and connection map operation/management limitations · D‌ irectly applicable to program, revitalize the local railway facility management projects. The company directly joins the ISP for the railway spatial · ‌Inherent limitation and information systems economy of all management/ information construction project and contributes to the creation of the maintenance work · R‌ eal-world, absolute coordinates (locations) Management • ‌Provide KRW 20M to 50M for each ideas Limitations to be solely based on spatial information market based on reliable data. This is an ongoing drawings/ledgers based information system activities • ‌Help creating a CI that highlights the start-ups’ and · ‌Limitation of the gap construction/operation, Restrictions characteristics effort for LX as the company plans to support the creation of the spatial reduction between real Expected facility management and • ‌PR outreach to the media and related organizations 2021~ (4th stage) Nationwide world and functional Effects maintenance via LX’s PR line information market by backing up the adoption, application, and location · ‌Real-time control for accidents/disasters, • ‌Build additional GeoDream • ‌Support overseas exhibitions to help entering promotion of the spatial information for the national infrastructure · ‌Interpretable only by the enable adoption of onCenters in different regions and relevant staff of public site information system for overseas markets districts including roads, railways, rivers and ports, etc. organizations facilities and equipment 26 2017 Sustainability Report A Promise for a Better Future A Leader in National Spatial Growing with the Trust of the Appendix 27 Information People Cadastral Survey Registration of Land, Cadaster Future of Cadastral Information brought by New LX’s Future-oriented Cadastral Information Service LX National Land Information Platform Technology The LX National Land Information Platform is a multi-space for “Cadaster” refers to a permanent national system that registers and While LX meets the traditional demand for existing cadastral surveying, information about the national land. It loads the latest cadastral publicly discloses the physical status and legal rights for real estate (lands It is highly likely that the needs for the innovative management of it assists future-oriented cadastral information, comprehensive land information to LX’s cloud along with the existing cadastral survey and buildings) and manages any modifications to this information. The land and real-estate would be brought to the fore so as to create new information consulting, and decision-making connected to the digital information. By building Big Data on all relevant information including basic concept of the use and management of national land, “cadaster,” industries in the areas of health, agriculture, and society. In addition, the field among the 4th industrial revolution technologies. This will help national land policies and cadastral survey results, LX will offer the comprises boundary, location, form, rights, area, category of land, demand for big data using sensors is increasing, and it is expected that realize the “Korean version of Cadastral 2034,” which forms a part of the optimized national land information based on new technologies such buildings and parcel number, etc. It forms the basis of information to the real-time linkage technology combined with the fourth industrial national cadastral system development strategy at the national level. as Artificial Intelligence (AI) and Augmented Reality (AR) while setting present the value criteria for the relevant land. revolution technology will be developed. On the other hand, demand out to establish a cloud-based LX national land information platform for high-quality three-dimensional visualization of assets boundaries The National Land Information Consulting Service of the equipped with all survey files (survey files, survey performance, etc.) such as buildings and underground facilities is expected to increase. People “LX_GeoGo” in a bid to examine the patterns of the existing decisions on surveying Demand for high-precision intellectual data for individuals is expected to “LX_GeoGo” is LX’s future cadastral information service that offers results. increase significantly due to the development of high-precision location total consulting on national land use based on 3-dimentional cadastral Boundary Location information technology. information. LX_GeoGo will be programmed by learning methods, Applicability of the LX National Land Information Platform supervised by deep learning, so that it can provide a decision-making Intelligent Cadaster for Happier Citizens function tailored to realize land values and improved usage. It will then Parcel be developed into an artificial intelligence that will serve to provide Form Number From graphical cadastral data to today’s 4th industrial revolution, where users with accessible relevant information via an app. IT related to artificial intelligence converges on the industrial sectors “LX_GeoGo” would provide land owners with comprehensive to create new values, land information and specialized knowledge on information about the land by combining the Internet of Things Cadastral land use have remained inaccessible to most ordinary people. Thus, (IoT) with augmented reality and would aid their decision-making by Information National land Cadastral information Surveying result the future cadastral service will provide them with the most effective suggesting the necessary information for the most effective land use Information resource resource resource Buildings Rights land use and suggestions to raise the values, backed by augmented methods and increasing the relevant land values. Its benefits are not • Building space info • ‌National Land • ‌Survey result map reality and modeling made by artificial intelligence. This will lead to the limited to only land owners: surveyors may also take advantage of this • Real-estate info Information Base Map • ‌Civil complaint analysis development of an intelligent cadastral service that helps people make information to make an optimum, informed decision. For example, • New parcel info • ‌Cadastral map • ‌Survey result document better-informed decisions. just as artificial intelligence learns court cases to propose the most • DB file of current form • ‌Survey result DB Category • ‌Land use history of Land Area appropriate ruling for a lawsuit, “LX_GeoGo” will accumulate new data in addition to existing data and suggest accurate surveying data and performance determination measures with overlapping images and high-precision location information. With LX’s “LX_GeoGo” service based on AI, LX provides the optimal surveyed results by presenting the Purpose of Cadastral Survey land use plan to improve the land value to the people. Furthermore, we National Policy resource will open up the future of intelligent cadaster that contributes to the BIG Deep A cadastral survey is indispensable in protecting the citizen’s property • ‌Regular rectification benefit of the public. of cadastral parcels rights by registering land information on the cadastral records, which • ‌Realization of land category system, etc. DATA Learning serve to publicly verify cadastral information such as the location Provide real-time and area of land. Capitalizing on its abundant surveying experience information accumulated over a long period of time and advanced technological superiority, LX surveys the land in a prompt and accurate manner and offers useful information for the daily lives of the Korean people. Land use and plan Intelligent cadastral Support optimized land AI service utilization Examples of cadastral surveying applications Land registration and Land evaluation and taxation trading Essential elements of people’s life “Increase the value of the national land” Increase in the Value of the National Land Brought by “LX_GeoGo” 28 2017 Sustainability Report A Promise for a Better Future A Leader in National Spatial Growing with the Trust of the Appendix 29 Information People Cadastral Survey Cadastral Resurvey Applying for the Cadastral Survey Service Cadastral Resurvey to Raise the Land Utility Values Enriching the lives of people with Cadastral Resurvey We present all the procedures and processes of cadastral surveys from the survey consultation and follow-up management from The Cadastral Survey is a national project that is pioneering the smart Protection of Property Rights through Digital Cadastral the perspective of ordinary customers. For more information, please contact our Quick Call Center at 1588-7704. land era by connecting accurate cadastral information obtained from Information new surveys with the latest IT technology and completing the Korean As the boundaries of land become clear, social disputes are resolved version of the smart cadaster by including the provision of digital and we expect to realize the protection of the property rights of citizens cadastral information, etc. LX currently aims to launch a cadastral by registering the information of land surface, ground and underground resurvey project on 5,540,000 parcels that do not fit into the cadastral in digital point of view. Survey Consultation/Application On the Day of Surveying map (around 15%) of the 37 million parcels throughout the nation. land Necessity of the Cadastral Resurvey surface ground underground Today, the location of Korea based on the Japanese origin (Tokyo Cadastral Survey Quick Call Center Free Boundary Monuments Datum) deviates from the international standard by approximately 365m. This inaccurate survey information obtained from obsolete Boundary, control Buildings, power Resurvey Subway, shopping • ‌You can book consultations without visiting the Center. • ‌LX purchases and provides customers with boundary monuments technology from about 100 years ago has become a frequent source of point, road, river transmission roads, targets mall, tunnel etc. necessary for the cadastral survey at no cost. etc. overpasses etc. • ‌Telephone Consultation: You can have a consultation at the time that conflicts among neighbors. Thus, it is necessary to conduct a cadastral is most convenient for you. • ‌When installing boundary monuments, it is advisable to invite the neighboring land owners and stakeholders to prevent any conflicts resurvey to protect individuals’ property rights and to effectively • ‌Drawing Consultation: You can book a detailed survey consultation by examining drawings. from occurring. manage the national land. Digital cadastral registration through cadastral resurvey Building superficies, On-site Distribution of the Boundary Relocation Ownership, Prior Survey Schedule Notification Service Protected partitioned Subsurface rights, Surveying Result Map property easement, ownership, land partitioned superficies, • ‌Two days prior to the survey, you will receive a text message with • ‌If requested by customers, LX will issue the boundary relocation rights under power line ownership etc. entitlement etc. 365m information about the survey schedule. surveying result map at the field. etc. • ‌The advance notification service allows customers whose survey site • ‌In particular, this map is very useful for any urgent document and residential address are far apart to adjust their schedule. submission such as building permit/approval. deviation from the global Improvement of Quality of Cadastral Administration Service standard of the People We provide accurate land information by correcting redundant information and inconsistent information, simplify the administrative procedures required for construction and development, and build up advanced digital information anytime and anywhere. Survey Completion Regional Economic Development through Increasing Land Utilization By arranging irregular land shapes in a straight line and adjusting the * T ‌ oday, the location of Korea based on the Japanese origin (Tokyo Datum) deviates Online Access to Cadastral Survey Result Documents Mobile Customer Satisfaction Service from the international standard by approximately 365m. boundaries of the land, which is the land that does not have access roads to the ground, we secured the roads and built buildings to • ‌Since August 2014, LX has been offering an online access service to allow • ‌LX provides customers with various services to satisfy increase the utilization of land. Though this, we are raising the value of anyone to issue result maps anytime, anywhere. them anytime, anywhere. Cadastral Resurvey Procedure land use and contributing to the revitalization of the local economy. • Cadastral Survey Quick Call Center site: https://c4c.lx.or.kr • ‌LX Land Info-e APP provides integrated services such The cadastral resurvey project is expected to be completed by 2030. It • ‌You can access or download the details of survey application, progress and as restaurant search and shelter guidance by utilizing Securing Advanced Cadastral Technology tax invoice (cash receipt) for 1 year from the survey completion date. does not place any financial burdens on land owners for the national mobile. Based on the digital information generated by our technology, it is budgets and covers everything from surveying to registration costs. possible to utilize the convergence and utilization with the spatial Under the consent of land owners, LX informs them of its resurvey plan Discount System for Boundary Relocation Surveying Zero Customer Inconvenience Service information of various fields, and the new synergy effect can be and carries out the surveying on the target areas before establishing expected. In addition, we will hold global advanced cadastral new digitalized land registers based on the confirmed land boundaries. • ‌When you have lost the original boundary monuments due to site • ‌LX has newly added “Zero Customer Inconvenience technology and play a role as a future growth engine of the nation. construction, obstacles, or other reasons at the time of surveying, LX offers discount rates for reconfirmation of boundary monuments within 12 months Service” menu on the homepage to receive the Cadastral Resurvey Procedure from the first survey. inconveniences and complaints of customers in real time and actively correct them. 1 2 3 4 Information and contents Public service field provision field Implementation plan Briefing session for Submission of land Notification of business and announcement residents owner agreement district designation Information 8 7 6 5 convergence Map production and Cadastral records Adjustment ‌ Boundary decision‌ Cadastral Map data collection field sales field Post-Cadastral Survey registration amount (committee deliberation) resurveying 30 2017 Sustainability Report A Promise for a Better Future A Leader in National Spatial Growing with the Trust of the Appendix 31 Information People Global Business Land, the Key to Solving Global Poverty Capacity Building Business LX with the World Starting by inviting Cambodia’s cadastral public officers for a training Global society has been working more closely together to tackle the program, LX has completed a capacity building business for about problem of global poverty. The widely-held consensus is that land is 200 trainees from 13 developing countries as of 2016. In addition, the • M ‌ orocco: Land registration and pilot project (KRW 0.92 billion) • U‌ zbekistan: Spatial information training center support project, establishment directly related to the issue of poverty. Against this backdrop, LX is company won orders from KOICA and the World Bank for capacity • E ‌ gypt: E-government master plan project (KRW 0.18 billion) of national geographic information system business, comprehensive land committed to realizing the effective use of land and the establishment of building businesses for land information, and has been continuing • T ‌ unisia: Digitalizing land management system support project, digitalizing management information system implementation project (KRW 16.81 billion) land WB consulting, technical assistance to build land information system, • K‌ azakhstan: Research on methods to establish NGIS (KRW 0.08 billion) responsible land policies by sharing other countries’ land management capacity building businesses by offering education that serves as the infrastructure masterplan project (KRW 1.35 billion) • S‌ akhalin, Russia: 3rd and 4th fact-finding survey project of Korean people’s status and innovation cases. backbone of sustainable national development. • 3 ‌ East African countries (Ethiopia, Tanzania, and Mozambique): Policy support graves (KRW 0.59 billion) project (KRW 0.4 billion) • ‌Kyrgyzstan: Establishment project for comprehensive land management • E ‌ thiopia: Invited training of land administration capacity building for senior information system (KRW 0.74 billion) Spatial Information Package Business officials (KRW 0.05 billion) • ‌Turkmenistan: Data processing management system implementation and land As land registration, digitalizing of drawings, information system • R ‌ wanda: Prior-feasibility study on project (KRW 0.12 billion) registration project (KRW 4.46 billion) • Tanzania: Land informatization policy support project (KRW 0.26 billion) • ‌Azerbaijan: Cadastral system improvement project (KRW 1.25 billion) establishment, etc. are exported in a package, individual projects that fail to delineate the characteristics of spatial information are grouped in a total spatial information package. This will enable us to offer comprehensive spatial information infrastructure that serves not just to establish control points, land registration, digitalizing of drawings, material support, and information system build-up, but also the Central Asia 23.93 education and training necessary for their operation. KRW Types and Content of LX Spatial Information Consulting billion Africa 3.28 KRW Southeast Asia 2.57 Land Administration Innovation Case Announcement (CEO) in the 2017 annual Central and KRW meeting of the World Bank South America billion 3.88 KRW billion Laying the Foundation for Global Spatial Information Organization consulting Technology consulting billion LX is pursuing a grand vision for the establishment of the cyber global village through its global business by systematically arranging land Others • ‌Bring innovation to the work • ‌Analyze the land administration information, accumulated for its global business over the last decade, 0.67 procedures and workflow of the system environment of target KRW as well as future land information throughout the world. land administration of the required countries agencies and organizations • ‌Examine the model examples of the • J‌ amaica: Cadastral map production and land registration project • ‌Laos: Road status survey (KRW 0.3 billion) (KRW 2.21billion) • ‌Vietnam: Industrial complex establishment survey, Cadastral Survey Business • ‌Case studies of the workflows of land management system • C‌ hile: Cadastral system consulting project, master plan for billion comprehensive land information system development the advanced land administration • ‌Prepare a roadmap for the Starting from Laos in 2006, the company has been engaged in various agencies establishment of the land comprehensive land information establishment (KRW 0.78 project (KRW 1.17 billion) billion) • ‌Bangladesh: Land management system F/S project, projects including improving the cadastral system, building cadastral management system and its action • U‌ ruguay: Technical support for the improvement of digital • C ‌ apacity building project for feasibility study on Dhaka city real-estate taxation map maps, and land registration projects in Azerbaijan, Jamaica, and other plans cadastral maps for the National Cadaster of Uruguay, the national land informatization (KRW 0.65 billion) nations. The Jamaica land registration project provided residents in improvement of geolocational accuracy of cadastral map (KRW (WB) • ‌Myanmar: Consulting on geographic information policy 0.73 billion) • C ‌ apacity building project for improvement support (KRW 0.22 billion) underprivileged areas with land ownership, helping them to maintain • ‌Haiti: Land ownership guarantee system implementation support national land administration • ‌Indonesia: Establishment of institutional improvement stable lives. The company also provided basic data for stable land tax project (KRW 0.16 billion) and management (KOICA) for unified cadastral system policies (KRW 0.23 billion) collections. The project has led to other cadastral projects in other countries in Central and South America including Uruguay, Chile, Colombia, etc. Participation in the Annual Meetings of the World Bank Smart Geospatial Expo Land and Spatial Information Consulting Business Since 2013, LX has taken part in annual meetings held in the With the centralization of spatial information related to tasks to the Since the first implementation of the “Establishment of the land System consulting Business feasibility study headquarters of the World Bank. From 2014, the company dispatched Ministry of Land, Infrastructure and Transport, the Ministry hosts the registration method and pilot project” in Morocco, Africa in 2007, LX its experts to the organization to identify technical services and Smart Geospatial Expo by integrating relevant events held by other has been offering land system consulting and land registration pilot international cooperation projects. In March 2017, the CEO joined the agencies. Hosted by the Ministry, the main event is joined by LX; the • ‌Examine laws and policies pertinent • ‌Propose the overall project direction projects in the global market. After 2014, we have expanded our spatial to land administration • ‌Standardization methods for the meeting to make a presentation of innovative cases in Korean land Korea Land & Housing Corporation; Korean Association of Spatial information business in earnest and have been consulting all over the • ‌Prepare the land system improvement system and land registration administration. LX also bore fruitful results from the event as the Information, Surveying & Mapping; Korea Research Institute for Human Africa, including Tunisia, Ethiopia and Tanzania, which are developing policy report • ‌Feasibility study based on an analysis company acquired a foothold to present Korean industrial competencies Settlements; and SPACEN. LX continues to expand overseas demand by • ‌Establish amendment procedures of the completed pilot project countries. We also support the construction of land administration to the world and linked it with tangible marketing performance by inviting foreign clients to international cooperation meetings, business for the relevant laws and revision digitalizing and land information management systems in developing methods sharing excellent Korean spatial information technologies in the PR meetings with private companies, industry visits, etc. countries. center during the event. 32 2017 Sustainability Report A Promise for a Better Future A Leader in National Spatial Growing with the Trust of the Appendix 33 Information People Global Business Link to SDGs: Comprehensive Land Information Management System for the Kyrgyzstan LX, Helping Korean Private Companies Go Global Operation of the Overseas Information Portal Service LX has established a network support system that turns various Overseas Order Support overseas spatial information and business information, obtained from 11.3 ‌By 2030, enhance inclusive To support private companies in securing overseas orders in a stable government agencies or the private sector, into a database. It then Goal 11 Developing Sustainable City and Forming a Residential Space and sustainable urbanization environment, LX undertakes preliminary feasibility studies, IT expert shares this database with other organizations on a real-time basis and capacity for participatory, recruitment, Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) consulting, and other through its homepage portal. With this portal service, companies can integrated and sustainable The 11th task of the Sustainable Development Goals revolves around the safe and resilient formation of city and human settlement planning and activities. We help Korean companies to successfully enter the local check international bidding or market information in real time and seek residential spaces. management in all countries market with local living tips, guidance, visa support, office space, or more successful overseas expansion through consultation with overseas To relieve developing countries from the difficulties associated with land administration, the LX Korea Land ‌ 11.A ‌Support positive economic, manpower assistance. business experts, using the corporate network, etc. and Geospatial InformatiX Corporation proposes a tailor-made model for each country based on the Korea Land social and environmental links * Overseas Information Portal: http://gisc.lx.or.kr/ between urban, per-urban and Information System. One-stop Marketing Support Strategy rural areas by strengthening LX annually selects one country from its strategic market pool of Spatial Information Road Show for Overseas Expansion national and regional First Held in Hanoi, Vietnam in 2013, the Spatial Information Roadshow development planning prospective customers to support its marketing efforts. The company engages in a series of marketing support activities including selecting has been establishing itself as a window for the world into Korea’s the target country, local roadshows, invitations to Korea, etc., to actively business competencies and technological prowess in the field of spatial support Korean companies in penetrating the overseas market and information. Relevant public officials, the LX business group, and Background obtain orders. representatives from participating companies form a PR team to visit a target country, and we make careful arrangements to ensure it will Kazakhstan be held in a different country each year based on business demands. The Kyrgyzstan is an inland country located in Central Asia and is Mongolia LX also takes the opportunity to visit the government agencies of the named as the “Switzerland of East Asia” because of its capricious Process of One-stop Marketing Support host country to hold a cooperative government policy seminar or terrain formed by mountains and rivers. government conferences to reinforce human networks. Prior to the selection of the main project for the comprehensive land Kyrgyzstan information management system for the Kyrgyzstan, LX had offered consulting and supporting activities including a feasibility study, expert China dispatch, etc. It became a fully-fledged project later in 2015, when it Investigation of overseas market Target country selection Iran information was selected as the preliminary project by KOICA. • ‌Establish a market penetration • ‌Examine urgency, importance, strategy from a research service and ease of implementation Hosting the 2016 Geospatial CASE India provider • ‌Identify the most feasible Implementation Process • ‌Conduct local market research countries for penetration Information Road Show in Cambodia and collect quality information Modeled after the Korea Land Information System (KLIS), LX utilized LX has strengthened the cooperative ties between Korea and Cambodia in the field of spatial information and held a geospatial Korea GIS S/W technology to build a standardized comprehensive land information road show in the public domain to build a network information system suitable for the Kyrgyzstan. The company strives to Country Name: Kyrgyzstan • ‌Dispatch a joint public-private partnership export for overseas expansion in Phnom Penh, capital of Cambodia, in enhance cooperation among relevant agencies including KOICA, Kyrgyz Location: Inland of Central Asia Hold overseas roadshow support team late 2016. The company provides Korean companies with real State Registration Services, Department of Cadastre and Registration of Area: 199,951m 2 • ‌Support company PR and business meetings opportunities to expand into the overseas market and obtain Rights to immovable property, etc. in a bid to maximize the effect Population: 5,790,000 (As of July 2017) orders by widening the path for overseas expansion with interof autonomous capacity building with the provision of Information Gross Domestic Product (GDP): USD/ ‌ 6.9 billion • ‌Conduct in conjunction with high-level talks of ‌ governmental conferences, spatial information technology the Expo Strategy Planning appropriate to the national development strategy (Based on 2017 IMF) Invite foreign clients seminars, business meetings, and by directly promoting • ‌Support a tailor-made project proposal and of the Kyrgyzstan, local education and training, and invitation-based company PR competitive technologies. training. Project to support • ‌Support roadshows, invitation seminars, related overseas business business activities (business trips, MOUs) activities Performance By building the integrated national land information database for the Orders from Foreign Clients Kyrgyzstan, LX has created momentum to lay a foundation for the establishment of scientific policies and sustainable economic growth by improving the administrative efficiency and governmental services to the citizens and linking information among inter-government agencies. Operation of the Overseas Business Support Center The project also improved cooperation between the countries in the The Overseas Business Support Center posts useful information such field of spatial information, thanks to the support for the Kyrgyzstan’s as international bidding and spatial information status by country on effective national land management and development, as well as the its homepage. It also holds shared growth workshops in cooperation expansion of LX’s business area into nearby CIS regions. Kyrgyzstan Drone (UAV) Control Practice with private companies, serves as the point of contact to announce any 2016 Cambodia Geospatial Information Road Show overseas spatial information roadshow events, and accepts applications. 34 2017 Sustainability Report A Promise for a Better Future A Leader in National Spatial Growing with the Trust of the Appendix 35 Information People Research and Education Lay the Groundwork for the Growth of the Spatial 2016 Key Research Performance Cultivation of Creative Land Information Experts Expanding National Information Education for the General Public Information Industry The LX Education Institute continues to develop training courses for Training talent required by the new era will be fundamental to laypeople to cultivate future national land information experts who are Spatial information has established itself as a core technology developing new industries. LX contributes to the national and regional interested in national land information. As of October 2017, 188 trainees and infrastructure for the 4th industrial revolution. Recognizing the development by realizing technological progress in the convergent completed the courses, and the institute encourages them to move onto importance of the spatial information industry and technology researches Status of Intellectual R&D national land information education sector, which connects time, space, higher-level training courses, thereby enhancing the training courses’ Property Registration Achievements overall quality and performance. earlier, LX has focused on conducting useful spatial information research and people, and cultivating talented experts who can lead the national (accumulated) (accumulated) appropriate to the demand of these changing times. spatial information industry. The Only Spatial Information Research Institute in Korea 440 cases 412 cases The Only Specialized National Land Information Training The Spatial Information Research Institute develops new spatial Institute information technologies converged with Information Communication The LX Education Institute enhances executives’ and employees’ work Technology (ICT) and carries out research for the policy projects Key Research Area capabilities and offers training to competent individuals who will be necessary for the national development. In particular, as the only pivotal in the field of future national land information. It provides those spatial information research institute in Korea, it contributes to the engaged in the national land information field with opportunities to National spatial information policy construction of the new spatial information ecosystem by taking the join its practice courses. The institute contributes to job creation for the lead in cutting-edge research based on artificial intelligence and big youth by operating courses such as SME workers’ work performance data. In addition, as it is involved in studies of institutions or laws and Stimulation of spatial Investigation of the current use improvement courses and job seeker courses for the national land legislations that would widen the applicability of spatial information information industry of national spatial spatial information industry. and stimulate the industry development, it also strives to propose the • ‌Studies of legislation to develop • Propose national policies through the spatial information area present national land use direction for national policies and was selected as an excellent R&D Tailor-made Training for Private Companies in the Spatial • ‌Studies of land category • Attempt to revitalize the private public institution by the Ministry of Science, ICT and Future Planning. revision to improve public market in cooperation with Information Area confidence in cadastral the relevant institutions The LX Spatial Information Academy offers free lecture courses by Job Seeker Course at the Spatial Information Academy records Building a Network for Spatial information Research current employees of private SMEs to ensure practical, field-centered The company is engaged in joint research by establishing a spatial education via the National Human Resources Development Consortium information research network composed of domestic/international project supported by inter-governmental collaboration. It also leads Discovering Idea for the National Land Spatial Information research institutes, industries and academia. In 2016, there were 21 Expanding the Sustained Growth of activities to create a win-win ecosystem, such as hosting the win-win LX holds open competitions for LX spatial information business startcollaborative research projects in progress from a total of 41 projects, scope of the spatial the Institution growth conference to promote the private market. information market • R&D on the global up ideas and spatial information open to the public. These competition indicating the drive to expand joint research projects with institutions of ‌• R‌ esearch on the application competitiveness index for events serve to offer relevant industrial opportunities and discover specialized technologies. of the cadastral system to the key businesses oceans • Research on a permanent LX Spatial Information Academy Training Overview new business models. The winning teams and individuals will be • ‌Development of the National management system to ensure given follow-up support according to stage, from start-up business Value Sharing for National Spatial Information Research Competency Standards effective management of idea clarification, incubating process for basic cultivation, to actual The institute regularly releases the results of the national spatial administrative assets Employee Skill Improvement commercialization and market entry. LX also provides 10 types of future information research conducted by the industry-academia cooperation Job Seeker Training Course strategic content, which it has developed, to stimulate growth in SMEs, in its academic journal, Cadaster & Land InformatiX, twice a year and who will play a major role in pioneering the future spatial information produced 33 excellent papers in 2016. In addition, it holds the “Smart The 4th industrial revolution technologies industry. The company is committed to establishing a solid base Geospatial Expo” a platform in which industry partner companies and for leading the national land spatial information industry by sealing institutions in the field of spatial information share the latest technologies Workers currently hired by spatial Young job seekers in the field of spatial agreements with several domestic universities to operate Industry and information and raise awareness of spatial information in the country. information related SMEs information Professional Practice (IPP). Development of convergent Development of platform Diffusion of spatial information issues and suggesting research positioning technology technologies direction • ‌Develop sensor fusion and hybrid • Develop UAV upgrade and engine application technology 2016 Education & Training Status The Spatial Information Magazine is published and distributed for free • ‌Develop location-based • Develop Smart Disaster in a bid to share spatial information news with the public and suggest community mapping Control system Seal agreement system technology Course registration research directions for specialists. From this year on, we launched a with holders of Document and Online sign-in (all courses offered employment Interview Screening spatial information newsletter and email service to rapidly deliver the insurance for free) Training Education Consigned Education Academy latest information on the spatial information industry and market. 38 courses including 17 courses including 14 courses including the National Land the introductory the open source GIS Information Expert cadaster course course 뉴스레터 GNSS-based core Development of Spatial information Quarterly magazine 2017. 01. 25. vol.1 세계로 나아가는 공간정보산업의 미래와 희망 course 2017 SPRING VOL.14 공간정보 대한민국 공간정보 산업을 이끌어 갈 공간정보 뉴스레터가 창간을 맞이했습니다. 최초에서 최고로 발걸음을 옮길 뉴스레터 창간을 공간정보 뉴스레터를 만들도록 하겠습니다. technology Research intelligent system 축하합니다. 박명식 한국국토정보공사 사장 축사 이 슈 & 칼 럼 Participation and Training Implementation 기획특집 공간정보, 제4차 산업혁명 시대를 준비해야 한다 스마트시티로 가는 길 유기윤 | 서울대학교 건설환경공학부 교수 2015년 세계경제포럼에서 클라우스 슈밥은 제4차 산업혁명이라는 의제를 채택했다. 제러미 리프킨이 2011년 • ‌Research on GNSS positioning • Develop spatial object ‌ 에 제3차 산업혁명이라는 책을 쓴지 불과 5년 만에 새로운 산업혁명을 이야기 한 것이다. 95 times 29 times 20 times 연구원이 만난 사람 자율주행자동차 이 달 의 f o c u s 심우섭 공간정보연구원장 자율주행자동차 개발현황 및 시사점 기술이야기 이재관 | 자동차부품연구원 스마트자동차기술연구본부장 technology recognition technologies 증강현실과 지식재산권 CES 2017의 최대 화두가 되어버린 자율주행자동차는 기술적으로 오는 2020년 초반에 미국 도로교통안전국 (NHTSA) 레벨3 정도의 기술이 부분적으로 상용화될 것으로 기대된다. 자율주행자동차를 위한 “클라우드 기반 고정밀 디지털 지도” 조 국 | 한국국토정보공사 공간정보연구원 선임연구원 사람은 머릿속에 지도를 그리면서 살아간다. 회사, 학교, 집 등의 경로를 매일 이동하면서 시간이나 계절의 변화 • ‌Construct and operate LX satellite • Develop high-precision ‌ 에 따라 지도를 머릿속으로 그리고 또 그리며 살아간다. 주 목 신 기 술 도시 안에서 발생하는 모든 것을 플랫폼화하다 * ‌For more details about training courses and information about the LX Spatial < MIT Media Lab ‘CITYSCOPE’ > 2,904 persons 866 persons 439 persons 이세원 | 한국국토정보공사 공간정보연구원 책임연구원 positioning infrastructure map-based unmanned vehicle 정책 & 기술 브리프 Spatial Information Magazine and 호주정부 SBAS 실험에 12백만달러 투자 Information Academy, please check the homepage below: ‌ 첨단 정보통신기술(ICT)을 이용해 EU 의회서 로봇 규제 결의안 채택 … '킬 스위치' 검토 control technologies 주요 도시의 공공기능을 네트워크화한 EU, 드론 통합운영 규정 계획 발표 이른바 똑똑한 도시인 스마트시티는 미래 산업을 이끌 핵심 동력이다. 미국 국립지리정보국, 알래스카 3D 지형도 공개 일본 히타치, 미국 부동산 컨설팅사와 IoT로 사무효율 최적화 spatial information newsletter 공간정보를 비롯한 첨단 융복합산업의 결정체이자 제4차 산업혁명시대의 총아로 대두 할 CES 2017, 글로벌 기업 자율 주행 자동차 기술 선보여 스마트시티의 나아갈 길을 살펴보자. LX Spatial Information Academy Website: http://lxsiedu.or.kr/ 공간정보 공간정보 •미군, 작전 중 3D프린터로 미니 드론 제작 •IBM, 드론을 '공중 기지국'으로 만드는 특허 획득 •콘티넨탈, 3D 플래시 라이다 시스템 통해 자율 주행차 지원한다 •벨로다인 라이다, 3D 라이다 센서 생산 공장 '메가팩토리' 열어 스마트시티의 이정표를 잡다 •일본, 자동조종 드론 배송 시험 첫 성공 •라스베이거스, 자율주행 버스 시험 운행 •구글, “자율주행차 부품 자체 개발한다” •지도강자 히어, 중국이어 인텔과도 손잡았다 •KT와 손잡은 벤츠, SKT와 만난 BMW..커넥티드 기술 '전쟁' Growing with the Trust of the People Healthy Corporate Culture Happiness Sharing 38 Ethical Management 50 Local Community 41 Human Rights Management The Ecosystem of Mutual Growth Work-Life Balance 42 Public-Private Partnership Growth 52 Human Resources Management 44 Job Creation 55 Health and Safety High Quality Service 46 Customer Satisfaction 48 Risk Management 49 Information Security 38 2017 Sustainability Report A Promise for a Better Future A Leader in National Spatial Growing with the Trust of the Appendix 39 Information People Ethical Management Promotion of Social Responsibility Management via Establish an Anti-corruption Infrastructure Education and PR of the Improper Solicitation and Graft Act Background of Selecting Core Issues Ethical Management LX is committed to improving management transparency and reliability LX has assigned two-hour mandatory integrity education to its eight through its proactive and integrity management activities. As a part collective training courses to promote legal interpretation classes led Compliance with laws and ethics is one of the fundamental Creation of the LX Integrity Ecosystem of its Integrity Keeper activities, we provide survey customers with by in-house lawyers. In addition, the company considers the dispersed principles for corporate management activities. Social standards Along with strategic ethical management, LX is constructing an internal/ the work procedures and information on whistleblowing and quick organization structure throughout the country and has in place fieldon public institutions tend to be more stringent than those for external cooperative network to create a clean ecosystem based survey results. LX also implements corruption prevention activities, oriented training programs whereby senior auditors visit and give lectures private ones. We cannot stress enough the importance of fair on ethical management. LX contributes to the growth of an ethical including opinion gathering and integrity letters. Regarding institutional on the sites. Also, the company sent integrity messages to the families and transparent management in business activities based on the management ecosystem by running an Ethics Committee and Integrity improvement, we have set up a new standard for placing limits on of its employees and took part in a joint campaign to prevent improper integrity of each member of the institution. Task Force Team. We assign dedicated teams to take charge of internal double payments of research allowances, incentives, and rewards. solicitation via the Korean Network on Anti-Corruption and Transparency. matters and join the Autonomous Council on Anti-corruption and LX’s Response Plan Jeonbuk Integrity Council as part of the local community initiative. No. of employees who attended Integrity education Result of Anti-corruption Initiative Assessment The LX Korea Land and Geospatial InformatiX Corporation is devoted and completion rates (unit: person) (unit: out of 100 point) to eradicating various violations of laws and unfair practices and to Integrity Business System creating a clean institutional culture through the internalization of a 100% 100% 100% Grade 1 Grade 1 culture of integrity and an advanced audit system. We will grow into Deliberation/Resolution Monitoring Grade 3 a trusted clean institution through not only systemic operation but • ‌Management ‌ • ‌E-monitoring system (The President and Ethics (constant monitoring) 3,708 96.1 also fundamental improvement and prevention activities. 3,673 94.3 Committee) • ‌Corruption reporting center 3,584 89.3 • ‌Auditing hotline 2016 Key Achievements Anti-corruption Initiative Assessment by the Planning/ Anti-corruption & Civil Rights Commission Coordination Grade 1 for 2 consecutive years 2014 2015 2016 2014 2015 2016 • ‌Integrity Team in the Audit Office Integrity Happy Call* • ‌Integrity Task Force Team 1,402 cases Internal audit sector by 2016 IIA (Institute of Internal Network Implementation/Diffusion Link to SDGs: Promotion of the Integrity Network Auditors) Korea • LX Ombudsman • ‌Code of Conduct manager, Won an award as an Excellent Institution • Audit Advisory Committee solicitation control officer • Integrity Partnership • ‌Integrity keeper leader • ‌Korean Network on Anti-Corruption • Integrity keeper Goal 16 Promote Peaceful Societies and Build Institutions * ‌I ntegrity Happy Call: An opinion gathering system for the person in and Transparency charge of contractors and unsuccessful bidders to preclude any room for corruption for the contract business (over KRW 1 million) and to reflect any The purpose of the 16 th task of the SDGs is to promote peaceful and inclusive societies for sustainable 16.3 P ‌ romote the rule of law at the complaints and comments for improvement. national and international levels development, provide access to justice for all, and build effective, accountable, and inclusive institutions at all and ensure equal access to justice levels. The LX Korea Land and Geospatial InformatiX Corporation reinforces ethical management activities in line Stakeholder Impact Assessment Building a Transparent LX Together for all with the related agencies. 16.5 S ‌ ubstantially reduce corruption The stakeholder interest survey on the impact of ethics Promotion of a Culture of Integrity and bribery in all their forms management on LX confirmed for us that internal stakeholders To achieve integrity management, LX has constructed the LX integrity network in which employees, the spatial LX’s efforts to proliferate its integrity ethics management culture evaluate all the aspects by giving them about the same weight. information service, and survey customers and partner companies participate. LX also prepares for a range of 16.6 D ‌ evelop effective, accountable are entrenched in the management’s PR and endeavors to improve and transparent institutions at all External stakeholders tend to assess all other aspects aside from stimulus measures. In its effort to establish and spread an integrity management culture throughout the industry, levels company ethics. LX opened an Integrity UCC and Photo competition operation to be identical. we monitor any unethical activities, improper requests, or illegal behaviors via various means including the Korean while producing and distributing stickers about the Improper Network on Anti-Corruption and Transparency, and transparently share its follow-up actions and results to the Solicitation and Graft Act. public. Finance We make sure to promote and reinforce the culture of integrity by introducing employee integrity pledges and encouraging clean reports Integrity Network Operation through the corruption reporting center. Korean Network on AntiDevelop anti-corruption policies in cooperation with domestic and overseas private groups and Corruption and Transparency public institutions to build a transparent and clean society Reputation Operation Integrity Ethics Management Promotion and Education Autonomous Council Share and spread excellent examples of other institutions or groups in terms of integrity on Anti-corruption management Integrity themed play with fun and impression 13times 3,250audience members Jeonbuk Integrity Cluster Build a wider consensus on integrity throughout the local community by undertaking various joint integrity campaigns with Jeonbuk government agencies, amending company rules in cooperation with other institutions, and holding the Cheong-ryeom nuri (integrity world) cultural festival. Strategies Internal stakeholders Cyber and Mailing Education Took part in the “Fair Play Pledge Ceremony” hosted by the Fair Player Club, a public-private 5,928participants Fair Play Pledge Ceremony External stakeholders cooperative forum seeking law-abiding, ethical management to increase anti-corruption efforts by the Fair Player Club supported by the World Bank and Siemens of Germany The Fair Player Club Fair Play Pledge 40 2017 Sustainability Report A Promise for a Better Future A Leader in National Spatial Growing with the Trust of the Appendix 41 Information People Ethical management Human Rights Management Realization of Clean LX Values Acquirement of Certificated Internal Auditor (CIA) Establishment of a Dedicated Team to Handle Human Rights Founded in 1974, Certificated Internal Auditor (CIA) is an international LX’s Response Plan Management The operation of an internal control system that emphasizes certification for internal auditors that qualifies them as internal In recognition of the significance of human rights management, auditing specialists for businesses. The CIA test, which is entirely in It is fundamental for LX Korea Land and Geospatial InformatiX LX organizes and runs a Human Rights Committee in which top moral principles and fundamentals helps LX to establish an ethical English, is divided into three subjects including the internal auditing Corporation to protect its members’ human rights as well as management and external stakeholders are involved. The Human institutional culture. We are reinforcing our auditing capability and process, internal auditing techniques and management control, and those of various stakeholders including its customers and local Rights Committee, composed of 7 persons, discusses topics such as the advancing its internal control system to become a Clean LX trusted information technology and the auditing environment and places community residents. We properly respond not just to social establishment and implementation of LX’s human rights improvement by the people. LX strives to secure the independence and expertise of emphasis on precluding any illicit behaviors and inefficiencies from interests on the implementation of human rights in the domain plan, as well as the work that is necessary for conducting the human auditing, as demonstrated by its internal reporting system. business management and advises and gives guidance for management of business, but also promote human rights management in rights impact assessment and its results. The committee provides innovation. LX makes sustained efforts to enhance its auditing process domestic public institutions. Through these efforts, LX hopes to concrete implementation measures with the management support to the international level and, as the part of the effort, one internal grow as a leading institution of human rights management. team, the responsible working body, to put into practice. Ethical Management Strategy System auditor obtained the certificate in 2017. Vision of Audit Promotion of Human Rights Management through Clean LX Trusted by the People Utilization of External Experts LX’s Efforts to Respect Human Rights Communication LX secures the continuity of auditing by securing and expanding accountable, ethical, and fully-qualified members for its Audit Advisory LX respects human rights and other rights of various stakeholders Strengthening of Human Rights Education Committee. Organized in 2015 with 6 members, the Audit Advisory including customers and employees, and is fully committed to follow LX strives to internalize human rights management by means of human Goals Committee was expanded to 7 members in 2016. The participation of the international standards related to human rights. Based on the rights communication activities within the institution. We make and Realizing the value of Clean LX by Focusing on the Highest Standards of the Basic Operational Principles external auditors ensures that we conduct transparent management Universal Declaration of Human Rights, LX has accepted the definition distribute thoughtfully designed materials about the substantial goals of activities, such as through the stipulations for non-executive board of human rights specified by the National Human Rights Commission human rights management and LX’s future initiatives for human rights. members to join the board meetings and Management Strategy to bring forward the LX Human Rights Management Declaration, which LX also nurtures an atmosphere where human rights are respected System and institution of Internal Control System Committee, etc. was attended by all employees, and laid the foundation to pursue and practiced throughout the assessment of our annual educational substantial human rights management. activities and prize giving for the employees with excellent result. Strengthened Cooperation with Other Institutions The company operates public auditing cluster council joined by seven The Process of LX Human Right Management Implementation 2016-2017 No. of Employees Completing Human Rights Education institutions in Jeonbuk Region and carries out cross-auditing with five (unit: person) Internal control and institutions including the Korea Electrical Safety Corporation, etc., so as Nov. 2015 Declared Human Rights Management by Employees Collective Cyber Auditing types Institution operation suggestion to prevent any possible internal impropriety issues. education education 4,610 Dec. 2015 Declared Board of Director Resolution • Total auditing • ‌Internal/external • ‌Board Meetings, Jan. 2016 Established Guidance for Human Right Management • Daily auditing reporting system Management Strategy Follow-up Management of the Results of the Internal Control System Implementation 3,491 • ‌Performance auditing (corruption reporting Committee Operation • ‌Specific auditing center) • ‌Audit Advisory Dec. 2016 Conducted Human Rights Impact Assessment • ‌Financial auditing • ‌Real-time monitoring Committee, ‌ 2016~2017 Carried out Human Rights Trainings (Collective education: Classification Method Main Contents • Discipline auditing auditing system LX Ombudsmen 3,491 persons/Cyber education: 4,610 persons) (e-auditing system) • ‌Jeonbuk Self-governing • ‌Post on the company intranet, share through the Online • ‌Introduction of ‌ Body company with e-auditing system * ‌Since the December 2015 LX Human Rights Management Declaration, LX has LX auditors’ rights • P‌ ublish auditing case studies, reckless management Case studies case studies, Q&A on the Improper Solicitation and offered human rights education. LX Human Rights Capacity Building defender system Sharing audit Graft Act result • ‌Survey on audit satisfaction, workshops, Pursuit of Global Human Rights Management Auditor conferences and the audit deliberation, and Coordination Committee Establishment of Internal Rules for Human Rights LX shares its human rights to prevent human rights issues from Cultivation of Internal Experts Follow-up check • ‌Check the implementation status according to Management occurring in relationships with partners, employees, and local audit result follow-up plan (32 institutions) With a view to enhance expertise in internal employees’ auditing duties, LX established the implementation guidelines for human rights community residents. This is because it is unavoidable for us and Cadastral survey • Work support system, field support system LX provides custom-made professional education to meet the needs Financial • ‌Company-wide resource management system, ‌ management to enhance the dignity and value of human rights stakeholders to influence each other through various channels of trainees, who have different levels of understanding of the job. We Monitoring accounting LX electronic procurement system management and preclude any possibility of human rights during our global business operation. In addition, LX appoints a General • ‌e-audit system, electronic approval system, also provide itinerant district training and education. LX encourages its administration customer relationship management system infringement. This guideline proposes the basic objectives and direction staff, exclusively dedicated to human rights for each business site auditing employees to acquire the auditing-related qualifications; this Performance • ‌Analyze 2016 operational outcomes and reflect to implement human rights management and specifies that it should to supervise if there are any problems or requirements in terms of them in the 2017 auditing plan has led to 23 employees in 8 different fields earning auditing-related analysis and • ‌Reinforce preventive auditing, budget saving, and include an action plan and evaluation measures to execute human employees’ human rights. If any problem is identified, the staff will feedback qualifications. system improvement rights management. report to the headquarters for a prompt action to be taken. The LX Korea Land and Geospatial InformatiX Corporation upholds respect for human rights as one of The LX Korea Land and Geospatial InformatiX Corporation encourages its members to raise their its core principles and strives to enhance the rights and benefits of its stakeholders. It plans to expand awareness of integrity, taking a leading role in realizing a Clean LX that fulfills its corporate social ’s Plan responsibility. We will be the first to create our own unique culture of integrity to facilitate corruption ’s Plan human rights protection and awareness with a mid-to long-term human rights management system. We will endeavor to invigorate human rights management through appropriate activities in stages to preventive monitoring and secure expertise in the field of auditing. respond to external environmental changes such as global principles and government policies. 42 2017 Sustainability Report A Promise for a Better Future A Leader in National Spatial Growing with the Trust of the Appendix 43 Information People Public-Private Partnership Growth Link to SDGs: Expansion of the Spatial Information Academy Goal 8 Decent Work and Economic Growth Win-win Synergy to Open Up a New Paths to Growth The task of the 8th Sustainable Development Goal (SDG) is to promote, inclusive and sustainable economic growth, 8.3 P ‌ romote development-oriented policies that support productive activities, decent job creation, Background of Selecting Core Issues full and productive employment, and decent work for all. With the Spatial Information Academy, the LX Korea entrepreneurship, creativity and innovation, and encourage formalization and growth of micro-, The scope of responsibility expected from a corporation as a Effort to Discover Benefit Sharing System Land and Geospatial InformatiX Corporation contributes toward job creation for young people and the cultivation smalland medium-sized enterprises, including through access to financial services member of society is gradually growing. It is becoming widely LX has a system in place to discover benefit sharing projects and seal of outstanding individuals for the spatial information industry. 8.6 B ‌ y 2020, substantially reduce the proportion of youth not in employment, education or training recognized that forming a cooperative relationship with business agreements in cooperation with SME partner companies. The system partners and strengthening their competitiveness is essential for allows us to firmly establish fair trade orders and win-win growth. We attaining sustainable public-private partnership growth. bolster the existing multi-party benefit sharing system model and a The LX Spatial Information Academy is a specialized educational service Educational Achievements of the Spatial Information Academy service type benefit sharing model, while newly selecting the joint targeting current employees of SMEs and job seekers who encounter overseas expansion to Cambodia with our partner companies. This difficulties that are inherent in the field of spatial information due to LX’s Response Plan insufficient educational infrastructure and the barriers to entry. It is No. of trainees 439 has resulted in selecting a total of 30 cases of benefit sharing projects who completed A range of win-win cooperation programs, including the in 2016, which are 20 cases more compared to the previous year. a part of the “National Human Resources Development Consortium courses development of benefit sharing projects and overseas market The operation of a benefit sharing academy and a Benefit Sharing Project” of the Ministry of Land, Infrastructure and Transport and the (unit: person) 297 penetration support, will enable the LX Korea Land and Geospatial Deliberation Committee allow us to continue our endeavors to grow in Ministry of Employment and Labor. It is provided free of charge to SMEs. 219 InformatiX Corporation to reinforce the supporting system that is In particular, we have developed a step-by-step process that identifies tandem with SME partner companies. designed to assist competent partners in accomplishing excellent the needs and demands of trainees. In 2017, a total of 555 people performance. The system will consolidate the foundation for completed the LX Spatial Information Academy, and the employment the development of the national land information industry and Operation of Communication Channels with SMEs rate of spatial information companies has achieved an outstanding 80% ensure the sustainability of LX, our partners, and SMEs. LX has in place a range of communication channels to listen to the or more every year since its opening in 2014. 2014 2015 2016 opinions of SMEs and pursue public-private partnership growth based on their opinions. The company firmly established a smooth two-way Companies 2016 Key Achievements communication system by collecting various complaints and demands participating in 177 with conferences and opinion surveys and improving any problem areas the educational 149 SME Innovation Awards in the category of public-private consortium 130 partnership growth identified by them. Won the Grand Prize for 3 years in a row (unit: ea.) The first to operate win-win supporters among quasigovernment institutions Council of Cooperative Partners Companies Support of KRW 1.28billion LX style benefit sharing projects • Composition of partner companies 2017 Job Seekers Class Trainees Promotion Booth in Human Resources • Promotion of regular quarterly meetings Recruitment Hall 2014 2015 2016 30cases selected Survey on Public-Private Partnership Growth Stakeholder Impact Assessment • For partner companies contracted after 2015 • Diagnosis of public-private partnership growth satisfaction Fair Trading Culture to Foster a Level Playing Field for SMEs Diffusion of Good Purchase Culture The survey on stakeholder interests regarding the possible impact LX responds to the government’s recommended policies by preferential of public-private partnership growth on LX revealed that internal Improving the Transparency of the Contract System procurement contracts with SMEs and socially disadvantaged enterprises. LX Overseas Expansion Support Center LX constituted fair and transparent contract arrangements with a view helps SMEs to enhance their liquidity with public purchase loan and prepayment stakeholders placed more importance on the aspects of the operations. External stakeholders put more priority on the mid-to to expand SMEs and socially disadvantaged enterprises and to stimulate system, etc. and we have also jointly sought to expand their markets by long-term management strategies and reputation. • Support for overseas orders and inter-company network local economy revitalization. We provide small enterprises and small holding SME procurement consultation sessions and working-level workshops. • Host global roadshows businesses of merchants with bidding data on a real-time basis with the Internally we promote win-win partnership with SMEs by improving the Finance improved procurement system and attempt to induce transparent and fair awareness on SME products and public procurement in the internal domain. competition for bidding and contracts by fortifying the prior-specification Therefore, the prepayment in 2016 reached 19.3% and the purchase rate of disclosing system. Furthermore, we regularly disclose contract information SMEs products was 92.8%, marking not just an increase from the previous year Operation of Win-win Cooperation Programs on our homepage and use a management disclosure control system to but also the accomplishment of the target by over 100% so that these results To sharpen SMEs’ competitive edges, LX carries out various publicensure the transparency of agreements. highlight the contribution made by LX to achieve its social responsibility. private partnerships growth programs. Reputation Operation Its technology sharing and spatial information cooperation assists SMEs to build capabilities and business start-up programs and the Hope Funds help SMEs in terms of advanced infrastructure to develop The LX Korea Land and Geospatial InformatiX Corporation is committed to assume a leading role in promoting and spreading public-private partnership growth among companies by increasing support spatial information business items. In addition, through the LX Spatial ’s Plan for young people and small businesses and by supporting SMEs to secure customized competitive Information Academy, we provide training courses and tailored edges. In addition, LX will also give a boost to activities for SMEs and socially disadvantaged services to meet the needs of SMEs, contributing to the growth of the enterprises by strengthening its role as the stronghold for overseas expansion, expanding joint R&Ds, Strategies Internal stakeholders External stakeholders companies’ growth. the expansion of subcontract direct payment system, etc. 44 2017 Sustainability Report A Promise for a Better Future A Leader in National Spatial Growing with the Trust of the Appendix 45 Information People Job Creation Expansion of Open Recruitment Based on Competencies Operation of Industry Professional Practice (IPP) A Leading Public Job Creator in the Private Sector To stimulate youth employment, LX has introduced a work-learning Background of Selecting Core Issues Customized Talent Selection linkage system called Industry Professional Practice (IPP) promoted by Establishment of an LX-style Strategic Scheme for Private Risks associated with youth unemployment due to stagnant In accordance with the changing management environment and the the Ministry of Employment and Labor to foster talented individuals in Job Creation economic situation poses a daunting challenge to our society. expanded public role of the institution, LX has a recruitment procedure the field. Selected in 2016, 172 university students are supported by LX The 4th Industrial Revolution is coming, and we cannot stress enough Today, job creation is not merely the result of management activities in place based on applicants’ job competencies. We are the first to get the opportunity to combine their knowledge obtained from the the importance of new growth engine businesses and new job creation. but has been brought to the fore as a critical issue from the institution that adopted a NCS-based recruitment system in the Korean university with hand-on experience in the field and receive systematic And as a public institution that serves its public obligations, LX perspectives of business competitiveness and social responsibility. public sector since 2013 for evaluating the competencies of applicants training. LX has signed MOUs with 23 universities in 2017 to broaden its prepared a strategic scheme to create new jobs in the private sector On the other hand, as the demand for providing fair opportunities based on job relevance and ensures the objectivity of assessments with IPP and is committed to cultivate talented young individuals through in conjunction with its strategies. In addition, we use our monitoring rises, there is growing interest in talent recruitment of companies. blind recruitment. In 2016, we hired 159 new employees and screened continued improvement of its educational courses and employment system to systematically manage our job creation results. To create new for the most suitable individuals for LX by running the entire process of support system. jobs with the goal of four times the current number of employees by LX’s Response Plan recruitment from application to employment for permanent employees 2022, LX is continuously building its core capabilities per business so as The LX Korea Land and Geospatial InformatiX Corporation carried out based on applicants’ merit. Industry Professional Practice (IPP) by Region and Current Status of MOUs to provide quality and sustainable jobs. a thorough review on the management environment for job creation with Universities and the necessary workforce. We ensure the fairness and reliability Reinforcing Blind Recruitment Job Creation Achievements in the Private Sector By Different Businesses of our recruitment process by first introducing a competency-based, To hire talented individuals through equal opportunity and a fair 13 2 6 9 2 (unit: person) blind recruitment system. In addition, we exert our various efforts in process, LX introduced blind recruitment for the first time among public No. of operating National spatial information ‌ providing a quality job creation environment including a shift from Cadastral survey Management support institutions in 2016. In an effort to relieve the problem of unnecessary universities 9,131 temporary to permanent employees and the creation of jobs in the competition, we removed the space that traditionally existed for Seoul private sectors, thereby responding to the government’s policies and Gangwon Chungcheong Yeongnam Honam 7,588 1,537 applicants to include personal details such as a photo, place of origin, (unit: ea.) Metropolitan Area Area Area Area Area contributing toward the development of industry. school name, etc., and instead focused more on interviews to review 6,266 1,286 No. of MOU their experience relevant to the positions, their responses to specific 824 2016 Key Achievements situations, etc. LX conducts blind interviews that do not provide employer universities 9 1 4 7 2 4,239 3,889 representatives at the interview with any data on the applicants. This 3,529 No. of new employees allows us to build a recruitment system that is both fair and reliable. 183 persons Realizing Employment Diversity 3,355 2,413 LX is operating an employment preference system to expand 1,913 Outcomes of blind recruitment No. of Industry Professional Practice (IPP) Trainees employment for the disadvantaged groups such as women, high-school 2014 2015 2016 172 persons 63.4% graduates, talented individuals of regions, persons with disabilities, etc. Expansion of university diversity In particular, LX pays attention to selecting local talent and strives to Major Private Sector Job Creation Details by Business Job creation in the private sector 48.0% offer more employment opportunities through recruitment trips for local 9,131 persons university students, customized career mentoring programs for regional university students, etc. As a result, we successfully recruited talented local individuals and those with disabilities, exceeding the obligatory Stakeholder Impact Assessment percentage specified in the 2016 government’s policy recommendation. As a result of estimating the impact of LX on job creation through a survey of stakeholder interest, we have confirmed that internal Improving Temporary Employment National spatial Cadastral survey Management support 2013 2017 stakeholders prioritize mid-to long-term management strategies In line with the public institutions’ personal management guideline, LX information business business business and operational aspects; similarly external stakeholders place a * ‌The diversity of universities means the number of universities compared to abides by temporary employment target management system that keeps • ‌Operate win-win supporters • ‌Establishment of the • ‌Operate a manpower recruits. We are hiring new employees of various backgrounds through blind Youth business start-up cadastral control point cultivation program priority on mid-to long-term management strategies. the proportion of temporary employees to 5% of the total employees. program management system, new customized to individual recruitment. We encourage the transition of temporary employment to permanent • P‌ articipate in overseas project consortiums investment, etc. • ‌Joint executions of companies • ‌Technology sharing, joint Finance LX Recruitment Process contracts through capacity building support and advantage points based • C‌ onsign specialized skills cadastral survey projects research with SMEs to the private sector, e.g. with private companies • ‌Consign service on experience. On the other hand, we limit our indirect-employment to system development • ‌Widen the private businesses such as facility 1 2 3 simple labor service at minimum and continue managing and supervising consignment of nonmanagement to local essential work residents Submit a competency1 Test Screening st 2nd Interview Screening the workforce to ensure for proper working conditions. based application • ‌Organization of NCS • ‌Basic job capability • Blind interview standard job-related assessment • T ‌ he majority of the screening Reputation Operation employment • Job related knowledge test committee members are from outside the company 6 5 4 To generate quality jobs, the LX Korea Land and Geospatial InformatiX Corporation enhances fairness in the selection of individuals and offers customized employment opportunities for disadvantaged groups in terms of employment. We organize and run the “Quality Job TF” to figure out appropriate ’s Plan Hired as permanent Recruitment-based Announcement of employees internship successful applicants • ‌Assessment of education & measures for the conversion of temporary employee to permanent position. LX is taking the lead in training courses Strategies Internal stakeholders • ‌Assessment of work implementing the government’s policies and contributing to the attainment of the virtuous cycle of External stakeholders performance • ‌Assessment of practical employment. work performance 46 2017 Sustainability Report A Promise for a Better Future A Leader in National Spatial Growing with the Trust of the Appendix 47 Information People Customer Satisfaction Provide an Outstanding Customer-Centered LX Service LX that Communicates with Customers One Step Ahead Customer Satisfaction Service Background of Selecting Core Issues Improvement in Customer Satisfaction Management LX serves customers in prompt manner from VOC collecting to To sharpen our competitiveness through spreading a customerIn the era of global competition, customer satisfaction forms Innovation Strategies responding. In addition, we have simplified the stages of collection, oriented management culture and advancing the rights and benefits one of the crucial factors for enterprises to maintain their Following the changing role of the public corporation, LX tries to provide acceptance and handling, etc. to a one-stop menu in order to enhance of customers, LX acquired Consumer Centered Management (CCM) competitiveness. With the advent of new forms of service arising proactive services to meet the expectations of the people regarding user’s accessibility and shortened the complaint processing period. certification issued by the Korea Fair Trade Commission in December from socio-technological changes, the industrial paradigm is also public services by revamping our customer satisfaction management As our business domain expands further into the field of spatial 2016. As a main CCM department, the customer support team is evolving to bolster the rights and benefits of customers. Therefore, innovation strategies. Based on our preemptive customer satisfaction information, various VOCs arise from the expansion. LX actively responds in charge of establishment and operation of the mid-to long-term it is of fundamental importance to seek to provide preeminent management efforts, we secure professional human resources and to such VOCs by establishing an integrated VOC management system. customer satisfaction management plan for the purpose of internalizing service to customers in a bid to maximize customer values. prompt responses to complaints. We will do our best to acquire the customer-oriented management principles. distinguished, quality services in preparation for the future expansion Activation of Customer Satisfaction Consultative Bodies LX’s Response Plan of our business scope resulting from the further advancement of the To improve our ability to handle complaints, it is important to view from Consumer Centered Management (CCM) Certification The LX Korea Land and Geospatial InformatiX Corporation spatial information industry. our customers’ shoes and leverage our expertise. Hence, the operation collects and uses the Voice of Customers (VOC) obtained from of various consultative bodies helped in improving our capability the consistent communication with customers to drive its service to solve customer complaints of cadastral survey. We are busy Certification Certificate authority period improvement. Building on the public nature of our service and strengthening our expertise on the basis of cooperative relationships Jan 1, 2017 ~ ‌ the understanding of convenience, we seek to address and solve with our external stakeholders such as relevant institutions and experts. Korea Fair Trade Dec 31, 2018 ‌ Commission (2 years) problems from the perspective of customers and to be a company that meets moving customer satisfaction and can enhance customers’ quality of life. Capacity building of the employees by sharing current issues and improvement requirement CS through the participation of internal leaders from each region LX Customer-Centered Management (CCM) System 2016 Key Achievements • ‌Regular intra-institutional performance checks and Customer Satisfaction Innovation Internal/ sharing of improvement measures via the CS Innovation Acquired Consumer Centered Management (CCM) Committee external Committee Certification Cooperation • Measure and evaluate complaint handlings First as a quasi-government institution System • ‌Establish a monitoring process after cadastral survey Service Quality Index (SQI) LX Quick Call Center • Form strategies to cultivate talented individuals 92.8 points Human • Establish an educational and training system Resource • Prepare for the compensation scheme Enhancing Professional Capability for Customer Satisfaction Management • ‌Provide assistance in the education and training of MOT Non-visit consultation LX is operating an educational and training program designed to improve employees (‌Completed 92,998 consultation cases in 2016) 1,028 cases increase expertise in MOT personnel to respond to customers. As we conduct Consultative customized education and training including CS Level Up, CS leadership, Bodies on Customer Physical • ‌Establish an integrated customer management system etc., for different levels of trainees, these efforts help to increase the level Satisfaction Resource followed by regular check-ups & improvements Stakeholder Impact Assessment of customer satisfaction. Moreover, we provide in-house CS instructors Management • ‌Maintain and improve an effective workplace environment The survey on stakeholders’ interests to see how they perceive the with specialized external training courses to gain substantiality in CS impact of the pursuit of customer satisfaction on LX, confirmed that education while making an effort to provide customer-oriented service • ‌Operate compulsory courses for different level of positions the internal stakeholders placed more importance on the mid-to longby grasping the global customer satisfaction trends and incorporating Education based on the customer-centered management system, term management strategy, operation and reputation area, whereas innovative cases into our practices. On the other hand, we also pay VOC Improvement Council Grievance and Complaints Management offering theory and case-study education Consultative Council the external stakeholders gave priority to the operational area. attention to standardize complaint handling by updating the complaints • ‌Operate an educational evaluation and reward system processing manuals and sharing key case studies. Strengthen cooperation with Finance • ‌Make and manage the manual on customer-centered LX CS Core Competency Model Promote standardization of Ombudsman from the AntiCCM management complaint processing by analyzing corruption & Civil Rights Commission, Manual • ‌Specify the main department for handling complaints, ‌ VOC handling results and external Ombudsmen (law/ Management the process and resolution standard, etc. administration professionals) Strategically Top Priority Reputation Operation Advantaged Area for CS Competency Area Improvement Model The LX Korea Land and Geospatial InformatiX Corporation sets out to accomplish greater customer service quality and higher customer satisfaction through its Customer-Centered Management (CCM). With a range of channels such as our homepage and mobile platform, we provide customers with ’s Plan useful information while addressing areas for improvement obtained from the VOC system through • Trust building with customers • ‌Conflict management Strategies Internal stakeholders • Customer-oriented mindset • Problem solving efforts such as the Quick Call Center to reflect them to our management strategies. We will continue • Business manner • ‌Persuasion and External stakeholders negotiation capability to provide trustful solutions and services to satisfy our customers. 48 2017 Sustainability Report A Promise for a Better Future A Leader in National Spatial Growing with the Trust of the Appendix 49 Information People Risk Management Information Security Risk Management Response System Cyber Safety Zone Broadened by LX LX’s Response Plan LX’s Response Plan Goals of risk management Expansion of Information Protection Infrastructure Against a backdrop of increasing uncertainty, the LX Korea With the development in information communication technology, In conformity with the guidelines of the National Intelligence Service, Land and Geospatial InformatiX Corporation is committed in Contribute towards achieving Management Goals through there is a growing risk associated with information leakage. effective risk management LX expands its physical network to regional headquarters, implements responding to risks proactively and preemptively. As an enterprise In response to this risk, the LX Korea Land and Geospatial measures to prevent any infringement accident via internet, and keeps that pursues a new growth engine—the spatial information InformatiX Corporation places the highest priority on protecting monitoring its operational status. Moreover, we take active measures industry—as our core business, we preemptively review internal Directions its information assets and customers’ personal information and it against rapidly increasing data leakage accidents by establishing a and external risk factors and reinforce an appropriate response is continuously undertaking continued improvement activities. In Network Access Control (NAC) system that completely blocks any system to maintain our competitive power. addition, we are heightening our capability to promptly respond unauthorized access of PCs, communication devices, etc., to our to cyber-attacks and emergency situations. corporate network and a data storage prevention solution that obligates the preparation of important documents on the intranet while blocking Prevent the recurrence any data storage on a PC connected to the internet, etc. Prevent risk occurrence Rapid response to risks Preemptive Risk Management for the Future of similar risks LX, Keeper of National Information Security Check Process through Hacking Simulation We have made a manual to offer guidance on how to systemically Advanced LX Information Security Management System Tasks respond to four different types of risk by utilizing the risk management In response to the intensified level of potential security risk, LX has system benefiting from LX’s characteristics. Furthermore, the “Risk • ‌Risk Management Signal • ‌Inform about possible • ‌Diagnosis of risk advanced its information security management system with a view Management Signal Light System” on the intranet enables regular Light System (Intranet) risk situations & management and to implement the national information security policies as well as to 1 2 • ‌Establish a risk reporting corresponding response the enhancement of monitoring and simulation drills based on virtual scenarios and further system by different in advance (simulated manual in line with the strengthen its executive ability in terms of information security. LX Situation analysis & scope selection Draw up a scenario helps us to improve our risk management capability. phases drills, etc.) management plans expanded its information security infrastructure and eliminates risk • A‌ nalysis of the present situation of business • ‌External penetration factors. Furthermore, we are committed to running a stable information • I‌ dentify the operation targets and attack scenario security management system encompassing security training for all the route planning •‌ ‌Internal penetration • Selection of the scope scenario Financial Risk Management Risk types employees, preventive measures for private data leakage, etc. The company revises its portfolio to fit into the current management environment and secures stable liquidity by effective fund operations to Management Disaster risks PR risks Conflict risks Personal Information Protection Management risks attain a stabilized internal environment while preparing and managing LX puts priority on customers’ personal information and strengthens 5 4 3 key risk management indicators in advance with internal and external the level of personal information protection management. As we Discover areas for Hacking simulation Review and selection have implemented preventive measures such as the destruction of all improvement of a scenario risk factor analyses such as global oil prices and interest rate changes to brace itself against possible future financial risks. Consequently, LX has Response relevant private data upon completion of the work, and the operation of • E ‌ stablish • ‌Examine weak points of the web • Scenario review achieved a net profit this term by KRW 148.2 billion in 2016, four times activities a personal information protection system as well as our own monitoring countermeasures • ‌Execute a system hacking test • ‌Select the • P ‌ repare the • ‌Execute a control system implementation higher than the previous year, and maintains a solid financial structure. system, there was not a single personal information leakage incident outcome report hacking test etc. scenario or infringement accident. As the result, we selected as an excellent Detecting signs Analysis and measures institution in the assessment on the level of personal information protection management of public institution. Stability through the Establishment of the Disaster Recovery Non-financial Risk Management • Collect risk-associated information • Gauge key risk index Aside from financial risks, LX manages non-financial risks that may • Monitoring and report • ‌Analysis of measured amount of risks Center • Regular risk diagnosis by different phases affect the reputation of the company in an integrated manner. The • Implement initial response activities The advancement in Disaster Recovery (DR) center helps LX to secure the company builds a foundation for an integrated risk management full protection and continuity of spatial information services. The total system by identifying the mid-to long-term non-financial risks including Response & recovery Follow-up management data reproduction rate between an information center and DR center climate change response by reducing GHG emissions of business sites, • ‌Form the Risk Management Committee • ‌Establish measures to prevent has been raised by 100%, and the DR center storage was enlarged to strengthened customer information security, etc., and classifying and and task force recurrence more than 3 times to firmly build up a data security environment for the • Risk situation monitoring • Post-evaluation of responses managing them by different risk types. • Frequent reports on recovery activities • Modify and revise the manual information center. In addition, we have done the integrated DB recovery test against possible emergency situations such as war and disaster and recorded the completion of a 100% data recovery by utilizing vaulting tape backup within 32.5 hours. This demonstrates our commitment to LX Control Center secure stability with increased resilience in information service recovery. The LX Korea Land and Geospatial InformatiX Corporation will keep on striving to achieve its The LX Korea Land and Geospatial InformatiX Corporation’s preemptive response to information management strategies and financial plans with an advanced risk management system that can security risks resulted in zero cases of information security accidents in 2016. We will renew ourselves promptly respond to internal and external environmental changes. In addition, we will reinforce ’s Plan our monitoring towards the risk-factor that can occur in non-financial areas and define and identify ’s Plan as the leading public institution that people can trust by responding thoroughly against information leakage and cyber terrorism as well as the continued provision of safe and stable spatial information the mid-to long-term risks from the comprehensive perspective so as to establish an advanced risk services. management system. 50 2017 Sustainability Report A Promise for a Better Future A Leader in National Spatial Growing with the Trust of the Appendix 51 Information People Local Community Mature Pursuit as a Leading Social Contribution Value of Sincerity Augmented by LX’s Sharing Social Contribution Participation by Employees Background of Selecting Core Issues Institution LX applies its business competencies to its social contribution activities by No. of participants 43,849 Continued technological innovations and technology diffusion LX Specialized Social Responsibility Management System sharing with the local community. The value of sharing is instilled throughout (unit: person) 39,673 lead to a growing demand for enterprises to directly provide a As a public institution, LX takes responsibility of the people and makes the company as our members are engaged in various talent donation solution to social problems and fulfill their social responsibility use of its capacity to conduct sharing activities. We have strengthened services including educational donation on survey for the underprivileged, 29,814 with regard to the creation of business. There is a heightened our foothold for social contribution by newly establishing social and free legal advice, etc. In addition, the local headquarters share their interest in the sustainable social contribution activities that use a responsibility management strategies in line with its corporate strategies. successful social contribution programs including cyber education course, company’s own capability to exercise a positive influence over the In addition, we run a variety of programs such as volunteer groups and etc., so that all members of LX are encouraged to actively participate in society. social contribution mileage to conduct systematic social contribution various social service activities. As such, LX is continuously putting emphasis activities. We are committed to helping spread the culture of sharing. in giving back to the society as a public institution. 2014 2015 2016 LX’s Response Plan As a public institution, the LX Korea Land and Geospatial Heartwarming Sharing with People InformatiX Corporation considers the best interest of all and it is fully involved in solving social problems at a fundamental level. Creating a Safe and Secure Environment With the advancement of spatial information technology, we LX offers a spatial information service for the people based on its spatial intend to launch differentiated social contribution activities by information competencies to foster a safe environment and increase sharing and utilizing our own capabilities. daily conveniences for the people. Using a spatial information service in Link to SDGs: Provision of Customized Training the event of disasters, we swiftly provide the people with information 2016 Key Achievements about damaged areas and emergency situations. Also, we offer useful daily life services including road name address information, cultural and Amount of LX survey fee exemption (free) tourism contents, and others. Quality Education Goal 4 4.5 B ‌ y 2030, eliminate gender disparities in education and KRW 22.2 billion ensure equal access to all levels Spatial Information Talent Donation of education and vocational The task of the 4th Sustainable Development Goal (SDG) is to ensure No. of audience for the Ballet Gala LX offered a talent donation lecture program for schools located in rural training for the vulnerable, inclusive and equitable quality education and promote life-long learning including persons with disabilities, areas that are relatively deprived of the opportunity to experience the 3,415 persons latest technologies. As the programs mainly cover 4th industrial revolution opportunities for all. As the LX Korea Land and Geospatial InformatiX indigenous peoples and children in Educational Program vulnerable situations Corporation offers customized educational programs to subject of No. of trainees in the social contribution technology including UAV experience, autonomous vehicles, VR, etc., they Achievements education including local children, the underprivileged, young people, manager workshop stimulate children’s curiosity and interest in science and help them to 402 persons etc., it contributes to ensuring equal educational opportunities for obtain new experience through the researchers’ donation of their talent. Cycling class by LX cycle future talents. teams Stakeholder Impact Assessment 6 facilities The impact of LX’s social contribution activities on local LX provides a wide range of programs starting from the ballet communities was forecasted through the survey of stakeholder experience program for local children to the bicycle training program, Educational donation on interest, the survey showed that the internal stakeholders and extending to the educational donation of land and geospatial cadastral survey put priority on the aspects of mid-to long-term management information to juvenile reformatories, special educational courses strategies, operation and reputation, while the external on finding positions in governmental offices, and operating spatial 7 schools stakeholder considered the reputational aspect to be more information. LX also shares its core competency to local students, and important. it fosters future talented individuals fit for the local community. LX Special lecture on public institution employment promises to endeavor in resolving the poor educational resource issue preparation and discover new courses that are customized to students for the goal 24 schools Spatial information talent donation activity Finance of providing equal educational opportunities to all. Community Ballet School Contribution to the Revitalization of the Local Economy LX was awarded a minister prize from the Minister of Land, Infrastructure, and Transport in recognition of its contribution to the local economy revitalization from the government in the “2016 Reputation Operation Regional Industry Promotion Merit Awards.” The prize was given to the institutions that made a significant contribution to the local economy The LX Korea Land and Geospatial InformatiX Corporation is actively working to fulfilling its social development among those institutions that moved to the region, and responsibilities for a better life in the community. We plan to revitalize diverse social contribution LX’s endeavors were recognized, including its cooperative activities with various local institutions, customized engagement with local residents, ’s Plan that will create programs that will create value by effectively leveraging LX’s capabilities. We promise etc. In the future, LX will continue its social contribution activities to expand our positive influence by strengthening our public roles for the healthy and stable lives of Strategies Internal stakeholders for local communities and be the accountable public institution that people in the future. External stakeholders actively responds to the demand of local communities. 52 2017 Sustainability Report A Promise for a Better Future A Leader in National Spatial Growing with the Trust of the Appendix 53 Information People Human Resources Management LX’s Talent to Create the Future Value of Our Land Expand Specialized Education & Training on Geospatial Management of Evaluation and Rewards Background of Selecting Core Issues Information To achieve its corporate goals and strategies, LX has a performance Intensified Customized Core Competencies To meet the increasing demand of the spatial information industry management framework in place to concentrate the capabilities of There is a growing expectation from society and stakeholders that Based on the interest in the growth and development of LX members, inside and outside Korea, LX tries to preemptively respond to the the entire organization and the members to ensure that employees enterprises should be committed to the growth and competencies LX provides employees’ education and training in order to equip them growing industry by fostering specialists in its major business fields. are appropriately rewarded by a fair and transparent assessment. of their individual members. It is important to contribute to with the capabilities necessary for the future spatial land information A range of educational courses including terrestrial lidar, Big Data, Furthermore, we strive to establish a performance-based organization employees’ development by promoting a sound organizational business and those to meet their individual needs. We’ve established and spatial information analysis, etc. helps LX employees to cultivate culture in which every member will be reasonably rewarded for culture that accommodates employees’ creative and diverse ideas customized educational and training courses to satisfy individual competencies for key issue areas of land information. Moreover, we their labor through an objective evaluation process. In addition, we as well as the creation of a positive workplace. levels of competencies through the analysis on the mid-to long-term organize an expert cultivation course and adopt a work-out type enhance our transparency by making efforts to reflect the opinions of management strategies, new growth engine business, employees’ training where several teams are engaged in discovering new business the members by running an opinion gathering channel regarding the needs, and capability diagnosis results. To assist our employees in opportunities in the field of national land information and given a evaluation and reward frameworks. LX’s Response Plan bolstering their competitiveness, we also broaden educational and chance to pursue their business projects if selected by a screening To become a workplace where excellent future talented training courses specialized in the spatial land information and, at the process. As a result, “The Fact-finding survey on Vacant houses and the individuals want to work, we are trying to promote innovation same time, encourage field-oriented training in consideration of the Establishment of Information System” proposal has been selected as a for sustainable human resources management. Also, in order for LX, a Great Place to Work characteristics of regional headquarters. national policy research project. As a showcase, LX is pursuing national talented people with diverse backgrounds to fully demonstrate policy support and expert cultivation at the same time through its Efforts to Realize Gender Equality their abilities, we are building a culture of win-win growth. Career Development Based on Competencies specialized educational and training courses. In LX, rewards and promotions for both male and female employees LX is establishing a strategic competency cultivation system with a career are done equally. LX has established a growth path for the social development program for all its employees. We provide our employees 2016 Key Achievements participation of women and proactively engaged in nurturing with the optimum opportunity to build their competencies by designing Educational Achievements of Geospatial Land Information female leaders. In line with this effort, we are set to gradually widen and offering online/offline educational and training programs. These our pool of female workers and consequently hired more female Family-friendly corporation certification by the Ministry of Gender Equality and Family focus on the insufficient competencies of employees, identifying the gap workers, making up 21.9% of the total newcomers. Since 2014, we No. of 3 times between the competency requirements for each job and employees’ educational have also introduced the gender equality promotion target system, 24 current capabilities based on diagnoses obtained by the assessments & training which dictates that 10% of total employees who achieve promotion No. of employees in a flexible work arrangement of individual employees’ competencies with self-diagnosis, work courses 17 to be female. 1,142 persons performance plan, observation or interviewer records, etc. (unit: ea.) No. of trainees who completed cyber safety 7 and health education Employees enter Fostering a Family-friendly Organizational Culture 3,999 persons their own main My information experience and LX sets its eyes on providing a happy workplace through innovative performance data reform of culture that allows employees to have balance between Competency evaluation / 2014 2015 2016 work and family. We have obtained and been maintaining the familyStakeholder Impact Assessment Career search friendly corporation certification by the Ministry of Gender Equality No. of and Family since 2012 and run a variety of programs to promote The impact of LX’s human resources management was forecasted Education 1,363 trainees who through the survey of stakeholder’s interest, the survey showed & training Gap analysis Career goal a corporate culture that satisfies its members. LX improved its management completed setup 1,098 parental leave system by introducing the automatic parental leave that the internal stakeholders put priority on the aspects of courses short-term finance and operation, and the external stakeholder Establish a career (unit: person) system, and promoting paternity leaves among male employees, development plan considered the operational aspect to be more important. this is contributing to good family relationships and the substantial alleviation of child care burdens. LX will continue to seek work and Career Career development counseling 269 life balance to raise the level of work engagement and to make sure to provide its employees with a happy workplace. Finance 2014 2015 2016 Selected as the No. 1 Company to Work for LX has been placed 1st in the public sector category as the “Best Establishment of a Fair and Transparent Personnel Company to Work For in Korea” through the survey by the GPTW Reputation Operation Management System Institute, a global trust management rating agency. The survey was conducted for the first time in Korea to future members including Supporting Lifelong Education students, current employees, job seekers, etc. under the global We also support workers that are soon to retire to successfully standards applicable to 50 countries in the world. LX has been launch their 2 nd chapter of their lives by providing a life design recognized for the remarkable performances in various categories Strategies program. Their new start will be fully assisted with a self-diagnosis such as workers’ treatment, talent cultivation, and work and life for the prospective retirees’ career search and environment analysis balance. We plan to exert more efforts to foster an organizational Internal stakeholders External stakeholders after retirement. This education was held for 233 prospective retirees culture that seeks the right values and happiness for all individual Seminar for activating drone use of the river field for a total of 6 times in 2016. members of the organization. 54 2017 Sustainability Report A Promise for a Better Future A Leader in National Spatial Growing with the Trust of the Appendix 55 Information People Human Resources Management Health and Safety Harmonious and Win-win Labor-Management Culture Efforts to Labor-Management Harmony 2016 Disaster Response Drills by Different Types In an effort to establish a sound Labor-Management culture, LX LX’s Response Plan Establishment of Creative Labor-Management Strategies concentrates on offering and invigorating joint programs for labor and Natural, • Fire drills (2 times) Based on the Labor-Management vision of “opening the future management that may help protect members’ rights while increasing Safety and Health Activities of a business is one of the essential social • Fine dust simulation drill (1 time) • CPR exercise (2 times) together based on creative Labor-Management relations,” LX has productivity. These programs include the meditation experience management elements that do not just prevent casualties disasters • Ulchi-Freedom Guardian (1 time) been forging a stronger consensus between labor and management program, process for the balance between work and family, the Laborfrom occurring but affect the spirits and productivity level of its • ‌Cyber terrorism response and recovery drills ‌ against a fluctuating internal and external management environment. Management partnership educational program, and more. In addition, members. LX Korea Land and Geospatial InformatiX Corporation Cyber (3 times) In consideration of its organizational features, we continue to seek through the operation of legitimate and substantial Labor-Management is constructing a systematic safety infra to ensure safe and health terrorism, • ‌Security checkup for regional headquarters ‌ security (3 times) a proper communication channel, addressing measures to attain meetings facilitates and ensures reasonable labor union activities and working conditions for its members. In addition, the company is • Cyber penetration response drill (5 times) reasonable Labor-Management relations, and improving them the establishment of rational Labor-Management relations. proactively working on contributing to not just the healthy life of • ‌Preventive electricity/gas checkup (12 times) accordingly. In the future, LX will take account of the actual work its members but also the people by promoting safety culture and Accident • Preventive elevator checkup (12 times) safety advancing safety awareness. environments of its members and proactively adopt government Facilitating Communication between Labor and check • Fire safety checkup (12 times) • Business vehicle safety checkup (regularly) policies to build trust-based, advanced Labor-Management relations. Management Smooth communication is the precondition of cooperative LaborManagement relations. In this regard, LX builds up various Safe Social Environment Created by LX communication channels to form a consensus between labor and Creating a Prevention-Oriented, Safe Workplace Labor-Management Relations Strategy System Building the LX Safety Management System To ensure the safety of its own members and the employees of partner management. We share the current status of management and gather Putting the foremost priority on safety is one of the principles of LX, companies, LX has built a safety infrastructure. We support safety goods Vision of Labor-Management field opinions through direct communication including future growth and we overhauled our safety management strategy system according in preparation of possible safety accidents that might occur in survey debate, win-win Labor-Management meetings, etc. In addition, if to its risk factor analysis. By creating an infrastructure for the safety of fields in various locations in Korea and conduct regular checkups for Opening the Future Together Based on there are any changes in operations including work conditions, we are Creative Labor-Management Relations workers and people, LX strives to secure the ability to systematically vehicles and facilities. Also, we make it mandatory for every employee seeking a reasonable system of management through consultation with manage and tackle problems as quick as possible. LX runs Risk to take safety education and training while trying to raise safety the labor union. Management Committee headed by the CEO to prepare against various awareness through the Safety Day campaign, distribution of safety Directions disasters and to create a pleasant work environment by dispatching manuals, PR on major seasonal safety issues, and others. Meanwhile, Labor-Management Communications Scheme professional manpower throughout the network nationwide. we conduct field inspections and safety trainings for the safety of employees from partner companies, doing our best to prevent any safety accidents from taking place. Industrial Accident Rate Building LaborCommunication with Settling the current (unit: %) Building Rational LaborBuilding Cooperative Grievance handling 0.3 Management Relations the Field issues Management Relations for Labor-Management for Fulfilling Social Continuous Growth Relations for Mutual Trust Responsibilities Payment and Collective Grievance Handling Agreement Bargaining Committee, LaborJoint Labor-Management Committee, Official Management meeting debate, Labor Affairs meeting for the key 0.1 0.1 held by regional Meeting for every region Disaster Response Drill Tasks executive members of Emergency First Response headquarters union (EFR) Certification 2014 2015 2016 • ‌Proactively • ‌Improving working • ‌Establishing the workimplementing environment/conditions life balance system Bolstering the Ability to Respond to Disasters Improving Safety for the People government policies • ‌Improving the • ‌Reinforcing social • ‌Establishing rational effectiveness of contribution activities • ‌Personnel transfers • ‌Consensus building by • ‌Conclude a reasonable The operation of the LX Risk Management System ensures the Capitalizing on its spatial information technology, LX supports principles for Laborcommunication • ‌Creating a secure across a large region transparently sharing collective agreement preemptively response to various disasters and catastrophic situations. We appropriate responses to possible safety accidents and disasters that Management relations between labor and workplace to be considered by information on the on pay based on individual grievance current management Labor-Management analyze the risk of a disaster in accordance with the risk response process might take place in people’s daily lives. The company provides not just • ‌Reinforcing efficient management applications issues cooperation labor management • ‌Preventing conflicts • ‌Provide a solution to • ‌Create a culture of work • ‌Continued improvement to undertake appropriate measures or to follow-up with management traffic safety information but also safety information for heavy rains competences through mutual trust grievance issues in and family balance and of the work conditions activities. We also spread the update on the disaster situations through and floods, and contributes to promoting response to any emergency between labor and the field by reflecting a happy, pleasant, and in the field and working management regional characteristics safe workplace environments the risk management signal light system and emergency contact while situation by building a safety information data for different disaster running a consultative body with the relevant institutions. events and accidents. The LX Korea Land and Geospatial InformatiX Corporation provides opportunities for all of our The LX Korea Land and Geospatial InformatiX Corporation will place the top priority on the health employees to develop their competencies and has established a fair performance evaluation and of our employees which will ensure a pleasant work environment and eliminate potential safety ’s Plan compensation system in a creative organizational culture. We will keep on monitoring the fruits of ’s Plan accidents. In addition, LX is proactively responding to issues related to the safety and health of talent management based on continued communication with our members and creating a reasonable the local communities by making use of its capabilities, and hence working toward creating a safe working environment that satisfies all members. national land environment. 56 2017 Sustainability Report A Promise for a Better Future A Leader in National Spatial Growing with the Trust of the Appendix 57 Information People Sustainability Management Performance Data Economy Summary Statement of Financial Position (K-IFRS) R&D Investments Appendix Classification Unit 2014 2015 2016 Classification Unit 2014 2015 2016 Current assets KRW 1 million 78,365 120,623 240,200 R&D expenses KRW 1 million 9,152 6,945 17,535 Assets Non-current assets KRW 1 million 306,627 307,041 378,095 Ratio of R&D expenses to sales % 2.1 1.5 3.5 Total assets KRW 1 million 384,992 427,664 618,295 Current liabilities KRW 1 million 63,287 85,417 126,444 Liabilities Non-current liabilities KRW 1 million 85,851 73,882 95,763 Registration of Intellectual Property Rights Total liabilities KRW 1 million 149,138 159,299 222,207 Capital KRW 1 million 10,000 10,000 10,000 Classification Unit 2014 2015 2016 Other KRW 1 million 225,854 258,365 386,087 Patents (utility models) ea. 8 12 13 Capital Non-controlling interests KRW 1 million Trademark rights ea. 36 45 55 Total shareholders’ equity KRW 1 million 235,854 268,365 396,087 Copyrights (program registration) ea. 299 327 372 Debt ratio % 63.23 59.36 56.1 Total ea. 343 384 440 *The corresponding data on intellectual property rights are cumulative. Summary Statement of Comprehensive Income (K-IFRS) Environment Classification Unit 2014 2015 2016 Revenues (sales) KRW 1 million 434,732 472,887 507,843 Energy Consumption and Energy Intensity Net sales KRW 1 million 434,732 472,887 507,843 Cost of goods sold KRW 1 million 353,806 363,663 384,411 Classification Unit 2014 2015 2016 Remarks Selling and administrative expenses KRW 1 million 56,081 62,626 72,854 Diesel TJ 34.75 46.32 46.95 Operating profit KRW 1 million 24,845 46,599 50,578 Gas (LNG) TJ 6.11 17.39 6.79 Other revenues KRW 1 million 3,592 3,909 6,697 Gas (LPG) TJ 0.26 0.14 0.13 Other expenses KRW 1 million 17,376 13,751 13,494 White kerosene TJ 10.02 7.36 7.54 Other profit KRW 1 million 1,370 1,843 148,543 Gasoline TJ 2.07 2.05 1.98 Finance profit KRW 1 million 2,013 2,133 3,024 Power TJ 67.35 80.96 92.11 Finance costs KRW 1 million 1 Other TJ 2.46 1.95 2.51 Profits related to companies Total TJ 123.02 156.17 158.01 Company-wide KRW 1 million accounted in equity method, etc. Energy consumption TJ/KRW 0.03 0.03 0.03 Based on sales Net income before income tax KRW 1 million 14,444 40,733 195,347 intensity 100 million Income tax expenses KRW 1 million 3,525 9,348 47,193 Net income for the year KRW 1 million 10,919 31,385 148,154 Other comprehensive income KRW 1 million -1,335 1,126 -20,431 Water usage by Source Total comprehensive income KRW 1 million 9,584 32,511 127,723 Ratio of net income to net sales % 2.51 6.64 29.17 Classification Unit 2014 2015 2016 Remarks Net Worth Turnover Ratio % 184.32 176.21 128.21 Tap water ton 76,331 79,950 74,814 Company-wide Greenhouse Gas Emission and Greenhouse Gas Intensity Key Financial Indicators Classification Unit 2014 2015 2016 Remarks Classification Unit 2014 2015 2016 Direct greenhouse gas Current ratio % 123.82 142.22 189.97 tCO2e 3,575 4,788 4,466 emissions (Scope1) Stability Debt ratio % 63.23 59.36 56.1 Indirect greenhouse gas tCO2e 3,489 4,194 4,818 Capital ratio % 61.26 62.75 64.06 emissions (Scope2) Ratio of operating profit to net sales % 5.71 9.85 9.96 Total tCO2e 7,064 8,982 9,284 Company-wide Ratio of net income to net sales % 2.51 6.64 29.17 Direct greenhouse gas Profitability tCO2e/KRW Return on assets % 2.87 7.72 28.33 emissions intensity 0.82 1.01 0.88 Based on sales 100 million (Scope1) Operating Cash Flow to Total Assets % 8.54 16.33 11.15 Net sales growth rate % -2.21 8.78 7.39 Indirect greenhouse tCO2e/KRW gas emissions intensity 0.80 0.89 0.95 Based on sales 57 Sustainability Management Performance Data Operating profit growth rate % -22.85 87.56 8.54 100 million Growth (Scope2) Net profit growth rate % -28.73 187.45 372.06 potentials 60 GRI Index Total assets growth rate % 1.03 11.08 44.57 Asset turnover ratio % 1.14 1.16 0.97 Waste Generation by Type Gross value added to total assets or 62 Third-Party Verification Statement % 98.67 100.64 114.36 productivity of capital) Gross value-added to property, plant Classification Unit 2014 2015 2016 Remarks % 150.16 161.45 213.81 Productivity and equipment General waste ton 14 76 77 Unit labor cost growth rate % 0.36 4.66 4.08 Specified waste ton Value-added productivity per Headquarters and % 0.71 8.7 41.77 Total ton 14 76 77 employee regional headquarters 58 2017 Sustainability Report A Promise for a Better Future A Leader in National Spatial Growing with the Trust of the Appendix 59 Information People Sustainability Management Performance Data Society Employees Wages of New Employees Compared to the Minimum Wages Rate of Total Workforce Represented in Joint Labor-Management The Ratio of the Employee Diversity (by category) Safety and Health Committees Classification Unit 2014 2015 2016 Remarks Classification Unit 2014 2015 2016 Classification Unit Details Remarks Incumbent person 3,953 3,908 4,115 Classification Unit 2014 2015 2016 Male % 88.9 88.7 88.6 Statutory minimum wages KRW 6,470 As of 2017 Female Executives person 5 5 5 Number of participants in the safety Female % 11.1 11.3 11.4 Wages of new employees (male) KRW 14,940 person 14 14 14 and health committee Permanent employees person 3,663 3,574 3,844 Under 30 % 5.6 4.5 7.0 Employment Wages of new employees (female) KRW 14,940 Proportion of participants in the type Unlimited contract % 100 100 100 Age From 30 to 50 % 68.4 67.7 62.8 person 98 120 109 Ratio (male) % 231 safety and health committee workers Ratio (female) % 231 Over 50 % 26 27.8 30.2 Temporary employees person 187 209 157 Headquarters person 210 220 225 Education Institute person 25 31 34 The Ratio of the Basic Salary and Remuneration Female Workers to Number of New Hires and Displaced Workers (retirees) Regional Research Institute person 70 57 55 those of Male Workers (by type of worker) Regional Headquarters person 430 428 462 Proportion of Work-related Disasters Classification Unit 2014 2015 2016 Classification Unit 2014 2015 2016 District Office person 3,218 3,172 3,339 The ratio of the basic salary of Total number of employees (permanent) person 3,663 3,574 3,844 Classification Unit 2014 2015 2016 % 100 100 100 females to that males Permanent Executives Female employees person 405 403 438 Male person 80 6 143 Injury incidence rate % 0.3 0.1 0.1 employees The ratio of the total remuneration Gender % 100 100 100 Gender Female person 24 2 40 Number of fatalities person 0 0 0 of females to that males Level 4 or above Female managers person 43 48 55 of permanent Under 30 person 76 124 The ratio of the basic salary of % 91 91 91 employees females to that males Age From 30 to 50 person 26 7 57 Employees People with disabilities person 129 125 125 Number of The ratio of the total remuneration Minorities Over 50 person 2 1 2 % 91 91 91 New hires of females to that males Veterans person 128 133 135 (permanent) Non-metropolitan person 64 1 90 Local local employees employees Proportion of Employees Subject to Performance Evaluation Metropolitan local person 40 7 93 Amount of Local Product Purchase employees The Ratio of Average Annual Salary Compared to the Highest Classification Unit 2014 2015 2016 Total person 104 8 183 Annual Salary Classification Unit 2014 2015 2016 Ratio of newly employed workers % 2.8 0.2 4.8 Total number of employees person 3,953 3,908 4,115 Classification Unit 2014 2015 2016 Total purchase amount* KRW 1 million 55,556 50,835 50,493 Number of displaced workers (retirees) person 6 2 8 Number of evaluated employees person 3,953 3,908 4,115 Total annual salary of the highest KRW 1 million 99.1 102.4 103.1 SMEs KRW 1 million 50,242 40,450 41,710 salaried recipient (A) Ratio of displaced workers (retirees) % 0.2 0.1 0.2 Proportion of performance evaluation % 100 100 100 Average salary based on total Technology development KRW 1 million 716 529 851 KRW 1 million 64 66.4 67.5 employee(B) Enterprises of females KRW 1 million 6,565 4,663 4,936 Ratio (=A/B) % 155 154 153 Use of Parental Leave Social enterprises KRW 1 million 436 1,152 360 Classification Unit 2014 2015 2016 People with Severe Disabilities KRW 1 million 357 407 445 Security Guard Human Right Education The Ratio of Average Annual Salary Increase Rate Compared to the Male person 2 4 4 Self-support village for disabled KRW 1 million 15 41 24 Highest Annual Salary Parental leave users Female person 32 38 34 veterans Classification Unit 2014 2015 2016 Classification Unit 2014 2015 2016 Total person 34 42 38 Total number of security guard person 3 3 3 * Total purchase amount: Individual expenses are overlapped. The salary increase rate of the % 1.64 3.33 0.68 2015-2016 Persons who Percentage of Number of security guard educated highest salary recipient (A) 2015-2016 Persons person 3 3 3 were still employed persons who return in human right Average salary increase rate(B) % 2.89 3.75 1.66 Classification who used parental Social Contribution Expenses 6months after the end of to work after Ratio of security guard educated in leave (person) % 100 100 100 Ratio(=A/B) % 0.57 0.89 0.41 parental leave (person) parental leave(%) human right After Parental leave, Classification Unit 2014 2015 2016 52 50 96% Return status Social contribution operating expenses, etc. KRW Disbursement Retirement Pension System (indirect cost) method Donations, etc.(direct KRW 265,143,440 271,932,880 209,163,985 Current Status of Flexible Work Arrangements Average Education Time per Employee cost) Classification Unit 2014 2015 2016 Domestic social Retirement pension amount (DB) KRW 1 million 122,145 135,651 132,301 KRW 265,143,440 271,932,880 209,163,985 Classification Unit 2014 2015 2016 Location of contribution expenses Classification Unit 2014 2015 2016 Retirement pension amount (DC) KRW 1 million 10,237 15,408 46,499 disbursement Overseas social Part-time work person 7 10 11 KRW Total retirement pension amount KRW 1 million 132,382 151,059 178,800 Total number of employees contribution expenses Flex-time person 355 529 941 person 3,663 3,574 3,844 Flexible work (permanent) Number of subscribers (DB) person 3,653 3,971 3,899 Disbursement Cash KRW 221,226,490 228,309,000 149,298,591 arrangements Flexible working hours person 2 94 184 Total education time Hours 485,766 464,823 465,094 type In-kind KRW 43,916,950 43,623,880 59,865,394 Number of subscribers (DC) person 134 186 502 Remote work Smart work person 6 13 6 Education time per person Hours 133 130 121 Total KRW 265,143,440 271,932,880 209,163,985 Total number of subscribers person 3,787 4,157 4,401 arrangements 60 2017 Sustainability Report A Promise for a Better Future A Leader in National Spatial Growing with the Trust of the Appendix 61 Information People GRI Index Universal Standards(GRI 100) Economic Performance(GRI 200) Classification Disclosure Indicators Page Note Classification Disclosure Indicators Page Note Procurement Practices 204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers 59 Organizational 102-1 Name of the organization 9 Anti-corruption 103 Management Approach 38 Profile 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services 9, 22-35 205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to corruption 38-40 102-3 Location of headquarters 9 205-2 Communication and training about anti-corruption policies and procedures 38-40 102-4 Location of operations 9, 31 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken No violation cases 102-5 Ownership and legal form 9 102-6 Markets served 9, 11, 31 Anti-competitive 103 Management Approach 38 Behavior 206-1 Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices No violation cases 102-7 Scale of the organization 9, 31, 57 102-8 Information on employees and other workers 58-59 102-9 Supply chain 42-43 Environmental Performance(GRI 300) 102-10 Significant changes to the organization and its supply chain 42-43 Classification Disclosure Indicators Page Note 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach 48 Energy 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization 57 102-12 External initiatives 10 302-3 Energy intensity 57 102-13 Membership of associations 10 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption 57 Strategy 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker 4-5 302-5 Reductions in energy requirements of products and services 57 102-15 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities 18-19 Water 303-1 Water withdrawal by source 57 Ethics and Integrity 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior 9-10 Emissions 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 57 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics 38-40 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions 57 Governance 102-18 Governance structure 16-17 305-4 GHG emissions intensity 57 102-19 Delegating authority 16-17 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions 57 102-22 Composition of the highest governance body and its committees 16-17 305-6 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ODS) No such cases 102-23 Chair of the highest governance body 16-17 305-7 Nitrogen oxides (NOx), sulfur oxides (SOx), and other significant air emissions No such cases 102-24 Nominating and selecting the highest governance body 16-17 Effluents and Waste 306-1 Water discharge by quality and destination 57 102-26 Role of highest governance body in setting purpose, values, and strategy 16-17 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method 57 102-27 Collective knowledge of highest governance body 16-17 306-3 Significant spills No such cases 102-28 Evaluating the highest governance body’s performance 16-17 306-4 Transport of hazardous waste No such cases 102-35 Remuneration policies 17 Environmental 307-1 Non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations No violation cases 102-36 Process for determining remuneration 17 Compliance 102-38 Annual total compensation ratio 58 102-39 Percentage increase in annual total compensation ratio 58 Social Performance(GRI 400) Stakeholder 102-40 List of stakeholder groups 11 Engagement Classification Disclosure Indicators Page Note 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements 59 Employment 103 Management Approach 44, 52 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders 11 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover 58 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement 11 401-2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time employees 52-54 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 12-13 401-3 Parental leave 58 Reporting Practice 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements 9 Occupational 403-1 Workers representation in formal joint management–worker health and safety committees 59 102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries 2 Health and Safety Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and number of work403-2 55, 59 102-47 List of material topics 14-15 related fatalities 102-48 Restatements of information 2 403-4 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions 59 Training and 103 Management Approach 52 102-49 Changes in reporting 2 Education 404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee 59 102-50 Reporting period 2 404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition assistance programs 52-53 102-51 Date of most recent report 2 404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews 58 102-52 Reporting cycle 2 Diversity and Equal 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees 59 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report 2 Opportunity 405-2 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men 58 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards 2 Non-discrimination 406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken No such cases 102-55 GRI content index 60-61 Security Practices 410-1 Security personnel trained in human rights policies or procedures 59 102-56 External assurance 62-63 Rights of Indigenous 411-1 Incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous peoples No violation cases Peoples Human Rights 412-2 Employee training on human rights policies or procedures 100% Assessment Local Communities 413-1 Operations with local community engagement, impact assessments, and development programs 50-51 Topic-specific Standards 413-2 Operations with significant actual and potential negative impacts on local communities No such cases Supplier Social 103 Management Approach 42 Economic Performance(GRI 200) Assessment 414-1 New suppliers that were screened using social criteria 43 Classification Disclosure Indicators Page Note 414-2 Negative social impacts in the supply chain and actions taken No such cases Economic 103 Management Approach 18 Customer Health and 416-1 Assessment of the health and safety impacts of product and service categories 55 Performance Safety 416-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning the health and safety impacts of products and services No violation cases 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 57 Marketing and 417-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning product and service information and labeling No violation cases 201-3 Defined benefit plan obligations and other retirement plans 58 Labeling 417-3 Incidents of non-compliance concerning marketing communications No violation cases Market Presence 202-1 Ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared to local minimum wage 58 Customer Privacy 103 Management Approach 46 Indirect Economic 103 Management Approach 50 418-1 Substantiated complaints concerning breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data No violation cases Impacts 203-1 Infrastructure investments and services supported 59 Socioeconomic 419-1 Non-compliance with laws and regulations in the social and economic area No violation cases 203-2 Significant indirect economic impacts 50-51 Compliance 62 2017 Sustainability Report A Promise for a Better Future A Leader in National Spatial Growing with the Trust of the Appendix 63 Information People Third-Party Verification Statement Preface KFQ was engaged by LX Korea Land and Geospatial InformatiX • ‌Core subjects in ISO 26000 • Limitations 4. (‌ Completeness) LX applied reporting scope, boundary and temporal Corporation (further ‘LX’) to provide limited assurance on the ‘LX Report • ‌The link between the core subjects and the UN SDGs The Report has been prepared solely for LX in accordance with the criteria. We confirm that the Report is suitable for stakeholders to 2017’ (further ‘the Report’). Our responsibility is to perform a limited terms of our engagement. We do not accept or assume responsibility assess sustainability performance. assurance engagement and to express a conclusion based on the work Assurance Procedures to anyone other than LX for our conclusions we have reached in performed. We conducted its assurance based on completeness of the the statement. Completeness and responsiveness of sustainability Recommendation for Improvement data and information provided by LX. LX is responsible for all contents KFQ designed procedures to have reasonable assurance of the Report’s performance information presented in the Report have inherent within the Report including the reporting principles and standards. critical errors or inappropriate information. We verified the reliability limitation due to their nature and the methodology used for For further advanced sustainable management, LX needs to strengthen of the contents, processes and systems of data generation and report determining, calculating and estimating such data. its reporting on ongoing management and response of key topics Independence preparation. raised by stakeholders. LX is expected to be reflected in the sustainable Opinion management activities through setting up of key indicators of social KFQ is not involved in the preparation of any part of the Report, other • Document Review responsibility linked with ‘LX Vision 2025’ and systematic monitoring. than providing an assurance opinion, and there has been no interest We reviewed the reliability of non-financial data in respect of the Based on the verification activity stated herein, KFQ confirmed that In addition, we recommend LX to report the company’s response between LX and us. We have no biased opinion on stakeholders of LX. ‘Sustainability’ by cross-checking the Report with GRI Standards, the Report meets the GRI Standards ‘Core Option’. According to the to the fourth industrial revolution and future strategies for securing quantitative data of LX, and internet & media research information. We principles of AA 1000 APS 2008 and AA 1000 AS 2008, inclusiveness, new growth engines be systematically linked to midand long-term Assurance Standards also confirmed whether or not the financial information mentioned in materiality and responsiveness, sustainability performance information strategies for solving domestic and international social problems in the Report was correctly derived from the audited financial statements were assessed and we could secure reasonable grounds to provide Type future publications. KFQ has designed and implemented assurance according to the from business report on All Public Information In-One (http://www. 1 level of assurance with the following confirmation: following standards. alio.go.kr). October 2017 • ‌AA 1000 Assurance Standard 2008 1. ‌(Stakeholders Inclusiveness) LX subdivided eleven stakeholders into • ‌AA 1000 Accountability Principles Standard 2008 • On-site Verification six groups related to the major issues of sustainable management. Seoul, Korea • ‌GRI Standards We visited LX headquarter and conducted on-site verification to To hear any concerns and opinions from them, LX had a customized • ‌ISO 26000 : Social Responsibility Standard confirm reliability of the sustainability activities and performance communication strategy for each stakeholder group and reflected • ‌UN SDGs (UN Sustainable Development Goals) data contained in the Report and to evaluate the effectiveness of their responses and opinions to its sustainable management the reporting process. We performed verification in the accuracy activities. Assurance Scope topic of the aggregated data from LX. These procedures included the following: 2. (‌ Sustainability Context) In terms of sustainability, LX continues CEO Nam Dae Hyun KFQ identified the followings as its scope: M‌ ateriality assessment process, stakeholders inclusiveness, key to actively respond to the economic, environmental and social Korean Foundation for Quality (KFQ) • ‌LX’s sustainable management activities and performances of issues, internal response procedures, and etc. effects that stakeholders requires based on the core issues. These the headquarter and all business establishment (domestic and ‌A ssessment of data analysis and descriptions and sustainable sustainable management activities and performances in connection overseas) described in the Report. management performance in the Report. with the implementation of the UN SDGs were properly contained in • ‌Compliance with the guidelines according to GRI Standards Core ‌Consistency between the financial data contained in the Report‌ the Report. This is a good example of LX’s commitment to achieving Option. and the audited financial statements 2016. and responding to global sustainable development goals. • ‌GRI Standards compliance assessment regarding contents of the ‌Interviews with relevant staff responsible for providing information Report and assurance principles of reporting quality. in the Report. 3. ‌(Materiality) LX established issue pools and reviewed by internal • A‌ pplication of Type 1 assurance approach according to AA guidelines and external assessment criteria (GRI Standards guideline, 1000 APS 2008 and AA 1000 AS 2008 to assess compliance with • Resolution of Findings DJSI, ISO 26000, UN SDGs, media coverage, benchmark, and issue inclusiveness, materiality and responsiveness principles and We confirmed that some errors, inappropriate information, and analysis) incompliance with the materiality assessment process. As a reliability of sustainability performance information. The term ambiguous expressions found during on-site visit were properly result, LX appropriately reflected that twelve key topics derived from ‘Moderate Assurance’ used in AA 1000 AS is designed to be reflected in the final Report. the process along with key performance in 2016. consistent with ‘Limited Assurance’ as articulated in ISAE 3000. Publisher CEO Park, Myoung-sik Supervision Vice-president Ahn, Jong-ho Planning Director of Performance Management Dept. Lee, Jong-hwan Manager of Performance Management Dept. Ahn, Jae-cheol Additional Information on the Report www.lx.or.kr Tel : +82-63-906-5081 E-mail : lx0101@lx.or.kr Address : ‌120, Giji-ro, Wansan-gu, Jeonju-si, jeollabuk-do 54870, Korea ‌ This report is printed on FSC™ ‌ Performance Management Department (Forest Stewardship Council) certified paper with soy ink.
