Online Safety Solutions Ltd Communication on Progress Prepared by Jonathan Smith CFIOSH RFaPS FIIRSM (Managing Director) Period Covered: March 2015 to December 2016 Statement of Continued Support I am once again pleased to confirm that Online Safety Solutions Ltd continues its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact. In this Communication on Progress we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to sharing this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Yours sincerely Jonathan Smith CFIOSH RFaPS FIIRSM Managing Director Human Rights Principles Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Assessment, Policy & Goals Online Safety Solutions Ltd actively supports the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. We will not carry out business with any countries or regimes where flagrant human rights abuses are known e.g. torture, politically motivated disappearances etc. Online Safety Solutions Ltd has an Anti-Harassment and Bullying Policy and is committed to ensuring that all employees are treated fairly and with respect. Online Safety Solutions Ltd will not tolerate victimisation, bullying or harassment in the workplace. Implementation As we continue to expand our operations internationally, specifically within Europe and the Middle East, all efforts are made to ensure the countries in which we trade comply with the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Online Safety Solutions Ltd has a Grievance Procedure in place and offers mediation to staff as a first stage resolution to any problems experienced in the work place. Staff consultation is run where organisational changes are being implemented to ensure staff are informed and have an opportunity to influence outcomes. Online Safety Solutions Ltd has a range of Human Resources policies which reflect our pro-active stance on human rights including our Anti-Harassment and Bullying Policy, Equal Opportunities Policy, Compassionate Leave Policy and Flexible Working Policy. Measurement of Outcomes In the past year Online Safety Solutions has not been subject to any investigations, legal cases or incidents involving Human Rights. Labour Principles Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Assessment, Policy & Goals Online Safety Solutions supports the ILO Core Conventions and will not do business with any organisation who uses forced or child labour. All Online Safety Solutions employees are issued with a contract of employment which clearly states their terms and conditions including pay rates and overtime pay arrangements. All staff are issued with a Company Handbook which includes information on standard terms and conditions of employment, company benefits, company rules, grievance and disciplinary procedures. Where Online Safety Solutions Ltd employs agency workers we are fully compliant with the Agency Worker Regulations. Online Safety Solutions Ltd complies with all relevant health and safety legislation and provides a range of different safety related training to staff as appropriate to their job role. Implementation Online Safety Solutions Ltd consults with staff on a continuous basis. Each year Online Safety Solutions holds a Company Review Day where the Chair speaks about the past business year, appraising staff of what we have achieved, where we are going and thanking individuals who have made a specific contribution. Online Safety Solutions Ltd has a range of Human Resource Policies which support best practice in terms of labour and employment including an Equal Opportunities Policy and Flexible Working Policy. Annual appraisals are run throughout the organisation. Online Safety Solutions Ltd has a Health & Safety Policy and a well---developed range of safety procedures. Risk assessments are reviewed annually; we run a health surveillance programme and carry out regular safety compliance audits of all sites and Departments. Measurement of Outcomes Online Safety Solutions Ltd runs a system of annual appraisals each year to identify personal development needs and training requirements and these are actioned wherever financially possible. Online Safety Solutions Ltd has not been involved in any investigations, legal cases or other relevant events related to the contravention of the Global Compact Labour principles. Agency workers are given clear information regarding their hours and working requirements, and are free to make use of all welfare facilities provided including the staff welfare areas, rest areas, shower facilities etc. Agency staff are encouraged to apply for permanent positions within Online Safety Solutions Ltd if an opportunity arises in their work area. Online Safety Solutions Ltd has not been subject to any health and safety statutory notices or prosecutions in the last year. Online Safety Solutions has employees working on both a full-time and part-time/flexible working basis and does not discriminate anyone based on their job role, occupation or employment status. Environment Principles Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental changes; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Assessment, Policy & Goals Online Safety Solutions Ltd has an Environmental Management System, an Environmental Policy and a specific Policy on the Sustainable Management of Live Events. Online Safety Solutions Ltd has targets set each year to increase the amount of waste we are able to recycle and decrease the amount of waste going directly to landfill. In addition we have targets for reducing fuel for vehicles and continue to reduce our carbon footprint through replacing older vehicles in the company fleet with more fuel efficient options and choosing the most suited vehicle for the journey. Our new Environmental Management System is being implemented throughout the organisation and there is a continual plan in place to maintain the training of all staff in environmental matters and to carry out environmental audits identifying potential areas for further improvement. Implementation There has been some targeted campaigning run throughout the past year advising staff of waste recycling targets and we encourage companies we work with to implement this also. Online Safety Solutions Ltd company cars are fitted with relevant technology to reduce carbon emissions. We are also compliant with the Low Emission Zone in London for all our deliveries. All environmental incidents are investigated and remedial actions taken. This includes an immediate response to rectify the incident, plus training for staff or amendments to procedures/processes to prevent any recurrences. Records and investigation protocols for environmental incidents are included within our Environmental Management System. Measurement of Outcomes Online Safety Solutions Ltd uses licenced waste companies for disposal of waste. We are registered with a WEEE compliance company for disposal of waste electrical and electronic equipment and battery disposal. Online Safety Solutions is also registered as a waste carrier so we can bring waste back to our Headquarters for segregation and safe disposal. We are continually reviewing our packaging waste to ensure compliance with packaging legislation. Fuel consumption is monitored on a monthly basis and we have managed to reduce fuel consumption over the past 12 months. Online Safety Solutions Ltd has not had any reportable environmental incidents within the last year and has not been subject to any statutory notices or prosecutions. Anti-Corruption Principles Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery Assessment, Policy & Goals Online Safety Solutions Ltd is compliant with the Bribery Act and does not participate in any corruption, bribery or extortion. Online Safety Solutions Ltd supports the UN Convention Against Corruption and does not operate in countries or with organisations that are corrupt. Implementation The Finance Director is ultimately responsible for anti-corruption within Online Safety Solutions Ltd and our Anti-Bribery Policy sets out clearly exactly what could be considered to be bribery in terms of business operations. The Policy also covers the receiving of hospitality and gifts. Training for all relevant staff is ongoing. Measurement of Outcomes Online Safety Solutions Ltd has not been involved in any legal cases, rulings or other events related to corruption or bribery. Online Safety Solutions submits audited accounts each year to Companies House which are verified by external auditors and this is used as one of the methods of identifying any spurious payments which could be related to bribery or corrupt behaviour. Signed: Date: December 2016 Mr. Jonathan Smith CFIOSH FIIRSM RFaPS
