Developing Partnerships Delivering Peace of Mind 2016 Sus tainabilit y Repor t Welcome Our business is guided by the principles of transparency and accountability. Operating sustainably is key to the peace of mind we provide our customers. To deliver the best products in a sustainable way requires us to build strong and mutually beneficial relationships with suppliers and customers alike. Our future success depends on embedding sustainability into our business and demonstrating the benefits to these stakeholders. And, because we are expert in developing, making and fulfilling sophisticated and innovative products with established brands, we can inform and influence our customers about where sustainability in the supply chain is possible. Although we are not required to issue a report, we choose to do so and to share openly our sustainability findings. We are not perfect, but we seek to be the best in our industry and to lead where we can. This report discusses sustainability activities in 2016. In addition to informing our stakeholders about our practices, this report helps us measure against the sustainability goals we set, anticipate risks in our business and guide the strategic direction of the company. PCH is a privately held global company with headquarters in Cork, Ireland, and with two Innovation Hubs – one in San Francisco and the other in Shenzhen, China. Cover: Samman Shen / Wiallman Ng Jason Yu / Valerie Chen Table of Contents Our Purpose 2 Supply Network 58 Message from Liam Casey 4 Partnering with our Suppliers 60 Sustainability Vision and Strategy 8 Audit Discoveries 66 Health and Safety in Supplier Facilities 68 About PCH 12 What we do 14 Product 70 Pack out, Fulfillment and Inventory Management 22 Life Cycle Analysis 72 Real-time End-to-end Traceability 26 Managing Chemicals Safely 78 Our Diverse Customer Base 28 Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement 80 Operations 30 Materiality Matrix 82 Where we Operate 32 How we Communicate with Stakeholders 83 PCH Enhanced Operations in China 34 Sustainability Governance 85 Reducing our Environmental Impact 36 Looking Ahead 86 People 40 Our Sustainability Progress in 2016 88 About our People 42 2017 Goals 89 Positioning PCH for the Future 44 Worker Health and Safety Improvements at PCH in China 46 About This Report 90 Career Enhancement Opportunities 48 Our Reporting Guidelines 92 Developing and Engaging our People 50 Disclosures 93 Gender and Diversity 52 Glossary of Terms 94 Overtime 54 GRI Index 96 Grievances 56 Message from Liam Casey Sustainability Vision and Strategy Hao SanMei 2 Developing Partnerships Delivering Peace of Mind Our Purpose Developing Partnerships Delivering Peace of Mind Our Purpose About PCH Operations People Supply Network Product Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement Looking Ahead About This Report 3 Message from Liam Casey Chief Executive Officer 4 Developing Partnerships Delivering Peace of Mind Just as the tech industry changes, so did PCH in 2016. We made a number of organizational changes to diversify our customer base and “Our customers depend on us to help business portfolio and to support profitable growth in the hardware them innovate, get their products to space. We consolidated our facilities in Shenzhen, China into a single campus in the Futian Free Trade Zone. This streamlined, modern market faster and deliver a unique and facility now houses our full platform of services in one building. We also merged our engineering teams in Shenzhen and San Francisco delightful out-of-box experience. PCH to strengthen collaboration and create greater synergies in is better positioned than ever to deliver our organization. The result is a stronger, more efficient and more sustainable company these services.” poised for growth. We now serve a diverse set of new customers who partner with us because of our extensive experience delivering sophisticated products and the custom supply networks to support them. In 2016, we increased our work with global brands and mediumOur commitment to sustainability is stronger than ever, and we aspire sized and startup companies in the health, beauty and fashion to be an industry leader. For over 20 years, PCH has worked with industries. Our customers depend on us to help them innovate, get their leading global consumer brands and innovative startups to help bring products to market faster and deliver a unique and delightful out-ofsophisticated and design-led products to market. Our services range box experience. PCH is better positioned than ever to deliver these from product engineering and development to manufacturing and services to companies that are passionate about design, brand and the fulfillment, to custom supply chain services. We work with innovators consumer experience. who come from a variety of tech and non-tech sectors, including automotive, beauty, consumer electronics, entertainment, fashion, IoT, As we look back at 2016, it was the right time to diversify and reduce medical/health and transportation. the size and change the composition of our organization. It was a hard decision to make because our people are our greatest asset. We strove PCH has a unique business model in which we operate parts of the to make these changes as compassionately as possible for employees. supply chain where we can be highly differentiated and provide valueThe biggest impact was on our factory colleagues in China. All affected added services. For example, we source and manage some elements of employees were offered a redundancy package that was above industry the supply chain for customers, while operating our own engineering, norms along with support to transition to new employment. The development, pack out, fulfillment and delivery services. In this Report, reduction in our workforce was largely completed in 2016. Customer we talk about both our own operations and those of our suppliers and testimonials reveal a more focused and responsive organization today. our sustainability approach to and impact on each. Our Purpose About PCH Operations People Supply Network Product Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement Looking Ahead About This Report 5 2016 Trends Across Partnerships with customers and suppliers are key to our sustainability program. Since the beginning of our reporting our Business journey, we have seen that making an impact on factories we do not own, but which we do business with, requires trust and perseverance. By forming long-term partnerships with >> Growing pressure on CEOs and global brands to innovate customers and suppliers, we have the greatest influence on their product portfolio, to gain access to customer data, to these relationships and sustainability outcomes. achieve a direct relationship with customers and to gain customer loyalty And, because we work with many companies at the early >> Disruption of traditional supply chain models caused by concept and design engineering phases, where sustainability rapidly evolving technology issues are largely determined, we are in a position to influence >> Growing importance of partnerships to achieve our customers and the supply chain. We take this responsibility competitive edge seriously and regularly review our operations so that we can continue to improve as well as advise customers and suppliers >> Real-time data driving supply chain efficiency, transparency, and reduced inventory on how to operate more sustainably. >> Growth of non-tech companies, such as beauty and fashion Sustainability is a deeply held commitment at PCH and part brands, entering the hardware market of the peace of mind we offer our partners. It is integral to our >> Increased requirement for high mix/low volume everyday culture at all levels of the organization. Sustainability manufacturing solutions in the consumer hardware industry is key to our business success, differentiation in the market, >> Increased product customization and personalization; and simply – the right thing to do. We will continue to measure “orders of one” our sustainability practices, be transparent and, where we see >> Shorter production cycles opportunity, to lead the industry. >> Focus on sustainable manufacturing to reduce cost and Thank you for your interest in our Report. optimize efficiency >> Increased sophistication of factories in China Liam Casey Chief Executive Officer >> Factory labor shortage and high turnover in Southern China >> Growth of the Chinese middle-class domestic market >> Increased local and national environmental protection in China, including factory emission reduction >> Increased availability of U.S.-based, bespoke manufacturing solutions tailored to the modern hardware industry 6 Developing Partnerships Delivering Peace of Mind Celine Zhai / Bella Huang / Ray Tan Our Purpose About PCH Operations People Supply Network Product Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement Looking Ahead About This Report 7 Sustainability Our Sustainability Vision We imagine a better, more sustainable future. PCH is working to make this future a reality. Vision and We imagine a future in which consumer products can be built on demand, ensuring that resources are used as efficiently as possible. We imagine a future in which data enables suppliers to become Strategy fully transparent, giving companies the ability to track demand and consumers the ability to understand the full product life cycle. And, we imagine a future where sustainability goals foster enduring relationships with suppliers and deliver peace of mind. Our Sustainability Strategy PCH is committed to sustainability. Our We make sustainability our business because we believe it is the right way to do business. The positive economic, environmental highest priority is looking after the people and social impact of our operations is key to driving long-term who work both directly and indirectly for performance. Our focus areas are employee safety and development, supplier qualification and development, and chemical and materials PCH. We place the utmost priority on their management. health, safety and wellbeing. Most of our greatest challenges occur in China, where our supplier partner factories have the greatest environmental social impact. 8 Developing Partnerships Delivering Peace of Mind Sustainability at PCH Products We take products from concept to People consumer balancing cost, quality and sustainability at every step. Our highest priority is looking after Focus areas those who work for PCH, both directly and indirectly. Our people are key to our success. Chemicals End of life Focus areas Manufacturing processes Employee development and engagement Materials Packaging Gender and diversity Sustainable product Health and safety Focus areas and packaging design Supply Chemical and safety Network management Energy management Our purpose is developing partnerships Supplier qualification delivering peace of mind; collaborating with our supply network partners is and development key to delivering on this promise. Waste minimization Our Purpose About PCH Operations People Supply Network Product Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement Looking Ahead About This Report 9 PCH in 2016 Global workforce (at Dec. 31) Engineers globally 142 604 2016 changes Merged San Francisco Percentage of workforce in China and Shenzhen engineering teams 71% into PCH Lime Lab Consolidated facilities in China into one main campus in the Futian Free Trade Zone 10 Developing Partnerships Delivering Peace of Mind Size of operations Suppliers* transacted with globally 414,759 sq ft ft2 * Excludes PCH Lime Lab U.S. suppliers. 134 Factories in our network Supplier and PCH workers with access to feedback hotline 1,000+ 2,000+ Total Highway1 companies as of 2016 Units shipped 74 11.69M Our Purpose About PCH Operations People Supply Network Product Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement Looking Ahead About This Report 11 What we do Pack out, Fulfillment and Inventory Management Real-time End-to-end Traceability Our Diverse Customer Base XiaoZhong Chen / Lynn Zeng 12 Developing Partnerships Delivering Peace of Mind About PCH We have unparalleled experience in product design engineering and development, supplier network management, manufacturing, fulfillment and distribution. We have a network of over 1,000 suppliers and experience assembling and fulfilling products for sectors such as consumer electronics, consumer health, medical, fashion, beauty, transportation and more. Our company goals are to: > > Remain an innovator and technology leader > > Partner with customers to add value at each step, provide superior customer service and deliver peace of mind > > Retain our passion for results and our can-do attitude > > Maintain a special, progressive, and rewarding place to work > > Increase diversity within our employee base > > Operate profitably and sustainably Our Purpose About PCH Operations People Supply Network Product Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement Looking Ahead About This Report 13 What we do PCH designs custom product solutions for companies that are passionate about design, brand and the consumer experience. We bring world-class products to global markets and reduce risk for our clients, and we always keep quality, sustainability, cost and time-to market at the forefront of our solutions. Our customers often come to us early, during the product exploration, concept or industrial design phase, where we explore opportunities before starting design engineering and development. This improves the product offering, lowers risks and accelerates time to market. PCH works at all phases of the product journey. We offer a customized platform that takes products from concept to consumer experience. Whether our customers want a full solution or discrete services such as design engineering and development, manufacturing, pack out, fulfillment and distribution, PCH tailors our solution to meet our customers’ needs. “Our supplier network of factories in China provides one of the biggest opportunities we have to implement sustainability programs. Although we don’t own these factories, we know this is where we can have the greatest impact.” – Alan Cuddihy, PCH head of sustainability 14 Developing Partnerships Delivering Peace of Mind The PCH Platform Concept Develop Manufacture Pack Out, Fulfillment Design engineering New product introduction Define Explore Architect Design Supply Tool Procure Make Pack out Inventory Fulfillment Ship Distribute for Mfg. network mgmt. design Sustainability Our Purpose About PCH Operations People Supply Network Product Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement Looking Ahead About This Report 15 The PCH Platform: Taking Products from Concept to Consumer Concept Develop PCH works with companies as early as the product concept phase to Once a solution has been architected, we move to the design help them deliver the best consumer out-of-box experience. During engineering phase, which includes mechanical assemblies, successive this initial phase, we conduct feasibility assessments to identify and builds, prototyping and testing to validate design decisions before mitigate risks that can reduce functionality, cause product delays or moving forward. We identify the most suitable suppliers and configure add unnecessary costs. Our goal is to architect elegant and simple the supply chain before moving into the manufacturing phase, which solutions and make products based on the desired product design, includes tooling and sourcing of components, parts and subfeature set and use case. Our design engineering teams in the assemblies. Expertise includes: systems architecture, mechanical PCH Lime Lab division are located in San Francisco and Shenzhen, engineering, program management, manufacturing, integration, China. These teams include 142 mechanical, systems architecture packaging engineering and prototyping. (electrical, firmware and software), manufacturing integration and packaging engineers, as well as system integrators and program “PCH excels in design engineering, making products and supporting managers, among other experts. customers who have unique product development requirements that require speed to market, personalization and specialized supply chains. This is where our 20 years of experience and commitment to sustainability differentiates us.” – Andre Yousefi, PCH Lime Lab co-founder Design engineering Define Explore Architect Design for Manufacturing Supply network design 16 Developing Partnerships Delivering Peace of Mind Manufacture Pack out, Fulfillment After testing and validating the product design, we are then ready PCH operates facilities for pack out and fulfillment. These are the final for tooling, production ramp and scale. We refine the production production phases before products are shipped. Our postponement process to optimize manufacturing for production volume, scalability model allows our customers to design built-to-order experiences for and ultimately cost improvement considerations. Capabilities customers around the world. Customization eliminates excessive include: tooling, procurement, process automation, mass production inventory and shipment costs. This reduces supplier costs and removes ramp, mass production sustaining sourcing1 and supplier network complexity in forecasting and planning. management. Integrating sustainable practices into design engineering, manufacturing and supply network management is one By collecting real-time data, including the type and number of units of the key values that distinguishes PCH from other companies. We selling and where, we begin to understand the consumer buying partner with tried and trusted suppliers. Our engineers design for pattern. Utilizing this information allows us to reduce risks of excess optimal manufacturing and select suppliers for single components as inventory and product obsolescence. well as final assembly. We match customers with supplier capability, Today, both businesses and consumers demand affordable and quick and we manage the product journey every step along the way. shipping. With automation and efficient fulfillment, PCH delivers Our customers are innovating, and PCH must often identify new new products direct to consumers within three days. This allows development and manufacturing solutions. Our product development our customers to enter new markets effectively and gain market and deep experience making products in China distinguishes PCH. share quickly. Our capabilities include: packaging, personalization, customization, pack out, inventory management, fulfillment, logistics – Carlos Martin, PCH director of manufacturing integration management, shipping and distribution. New product introduction Pack Inventory Fulfillment Ship Distribute Tool Procure Make out mgmt. 1. Sourcing activities during mass production to identify alternative supplier for critical components, reduce risk of material shortage, lower costs or replace low performance suppliers. Our Purpose About PCH Operations People Supply Network Product Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement Looking Ahead About This Report 17 Highway1 2013-2016 81.10% U.S. 14.8% Other 20.3% Health 4.1% Agriculture 4.05% Ireland 2.70% England 4.1% Robotics 1.35% Netherlands Type of Home 1.35% Russia product country 1.35% South Africa 27.0% 1.35% India Smart home 1.35% Portugal 1.35% Australia 29.7% Wearable 1.35% Canada 1.35% Mexico 1.35% Sweden 28 Startups solving social or Number of companies environmental problems 34% Female founders 2013-2016 total between Investment raised 2013-2016 31.3% in 2016 74 16 in 2016 $115M Total between 2013-2016 Total between 2013-2016 18 Developing Partnerships Delivering Peace of Mind Giving Startups a Boost: Highway1 Define, Explore and Architect (Concept) A division of PCH, Highway1 was established in 2013 and is widely At this stage we explore high-risk product features and develop viewed as one of the premier hardware accelerators in the world. prototypes to demonstrate the product performance and associated Highway1 encourages startups to test rigorously their products with cost drivers. This exploration results in a clear understanding of what it customers, validate their market assumptions, and work with world takes to develop a fully integrated product that meets our customers’ class industrial designers. Increasingly, many of the companies design and user experience criteria. Here, we also discuss sustainability selected for the Highway1 program have already raised initial venture opportunities. Changes can be made most cost effectively at this funds and have shipped products. These companies are best able to stage of product development. take advantage of PCH’s product development, manufacturing and global supply chain network. Design Engineer (Develop) At this stage, we build numerous consecutive prototypes, or “builds,” to Spotlight on PCH Lime Lab in evaluate solutions in the lab and with real users. The goal is to collect San Francisco and Shenzhen accurate data to drive the best decision-making. We design each component for production, including a detailed product requirement PCH Lime Lab is the design engineering division of PCH that works with definition (PRD) that combines all the product features. innovative global brands, medium-sized companies, startups and industrial design firms to define, design engineer and realize compelling products. The division teams, located in both San Francisco New Product Introduction (Manufacture) and Shenzhen, are composed of mechanical, electrical, software, manufacturing, integration, product management and test engineers Capital investment is required at this stage, but the risks are low who work side-by-side with our customers. because of the rigor PCH Lime Lab provides in previous steps. The final assembly process is refined over successive builds to optimize for Because PCH Lime Lab works at the concept phase of product, PCH is quality, yield and cost in the final saleable product. Minor design able to identify sustainability opportunities and risks early. This is a tweaks are made as reliability testing and failure analyses reveal critical time in product development, when sustainability issues are opportunities for improvement. best understood, optimized or resolved with the least impact to the product development schedule. Our Purpose About PCH Operations People Supply Network Product Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement Looking Ahead About This Report 19 PCH Lime Lab Partners with Nebia Nebia was started on the premise of creating great products that fundamentally change the way people think about their relationship to water in their home. PCH worked with the Nebia team to help bring the revolutionary shower system to market. Nebia and PCH share a passion for creating better consumer experiences as well as a core belief in water conservation. Nebia’s founder became conscious of water waste and worked to develop an innovative water-saving shower system. After raising more than $3 million in less than one month on Kickstarter, Nebia “A better shower experience that committed to an aggressive launch schedule. PCH Lime Lab was engaged because of our design engineering expertise, including saves you thousands of gallons of mechanism design2, fluid seal design3, design for reliability, Design for Manufacturing (DFM) and Design for Assembly (DFA), water a year.” and our deep appreciation for premium design elements. – Nebia Throughout the design engineering process, PCH worked with both U.S. component suppliers and PCH Lime Lab’s Shenzhenbased manufacturing and tooling engineers to reduce risk in the 2. Mechanism design includes kinematic study work (the motion of parts in space), sensitivity analysis to parts and assembly variations, input/output stroke and force analyses, friction manufacturing of the most complex assemblies and components. management and noise management. This early design feedback loop saved a significant amount of 3. Designing reliable fluid seals requires special considerations such as tolerance analyses, surface finish inspection requirements and extensive reliability testing over multiple time in the overall schedule and helped make this a successful component lots under various ambient conditions. product launch. 20 Developing Partnerships Delivering Peace of Mind Our Purpose About PCH Operations People Supply Network Product Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement Looking Ahead About This Report 21 Pack out, We work with customers all along the product journey to deliver products in the most efficient way possible to minimize waste and costs. Cost savings and environmental impact can be greatly reduced by considering a variety of factors. For example, efficient product Fulfillment packaging, the packing of pallets, the storage and transportation of goods, and long-haul and within-market shipping decisions all have cost and waste implications. and Inventory PCH’s network of suppliers and our own facilities in Shenzhen allow us to make products on demand, which increases efficiency and uses fewer resources by eliminating unnecessary production and potential Management waste. Our global fulfillment center enables us to move products to where they are selling, fast and efficiently, rather than sitting in regional distribution centers waiting to be sold. PCH strives to ensure a great customer experience at every point in the product journey – on the shelf, off the shelf and out of the box. Our end-to-end expertise extends to one-stop pack out, customization and full inventory management. We collaborate with our customers to create the most seamless out-of-box experience for each product. “A company’s financial health and environmental impact is tied to how inventory is managed. The more days of inventory in the channel, the more potential risk for overproduction and waste. By designing an efficient supply chain, providing real-time data, producing products on demand and shipping direct to consumers or retail, we help our customers reduce these risks and optimize their business.” – Liam Casey, PCH chief executive officer 22 Developing Partnerships Delivering Peace of Mind B2C % PCH’s professional pack out services, located at our recently Direct ship status B2C B2B Total Split modernized, FDA-certified facility in the Futian Free Trade Zone 2007 294,755 2,852,098 3,142,247 9% in Shenzhen, has contributed to the success of numerous startups and Fortune 500 companies. Our postponement model allows 2008 317,658 4,665,575 4,986,504 6% our partners to design and produce a built-to-order experience for 2009 227,476 7,012,355 7,239,831 3% customers around the world. Customization eliminates excessive inventory and shipment costs, optimizing efficiency throughout the 2010 1,345,996 9,867,627 11,213,611 12% production process, reducing supplier costs and removing complexity 2011 2,532,135 14,941,499 17,473,634 14% in forecasting and planning. 2012 1,754,425 11,831,169 13,585,594 13% We operate several production line setups at our pack out facility to 2013 1,711,330 30,695,273 32,406,603 5% achieve optimum efficiency and to account for fluctuating demand. This configuration supports high volume efficiency and high mix, 2014 3,446,061 38,698,539 42,144,600 8% low volume flexibility. Customized, automated technologies such as 2015 1,793,360 20,850,406 22,643,766 8% auto-labeling machines, H-shape sealing machines and auto-scaling machines deliver further efficiencies, while a comprehensive serial 2016 1,052,739 12,034,507 13,087,246 8% number control process simplifies inventory management. We operate a rigorous five-stage quality control system during Yearly Shipping Units and B2C% pack out, from vendor incoming batch to outgoing shipment, supported by our Shop Floor Control intelligent tracking system. Total (Million) B2C% split This process includes: 50M 20% 1. Incoming article inspection 40M 15% 2. In-process quality control 30M 3. First article inspection 10% 20M 4. Final inspection 5% 10M 5. Out-of-box audits 0M 0% FY07 FY08 FY09 FY10 FY11 FY12 FY13 FY14 FY15 FY16 Our Purpose About PCH Operations People Supply Network Product Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement Looking Ahead About This Report 23 Add-on services provided by PCH include: Dangerous Goods Regulations >> Packaging development, design-for-fulfillment and reliability testing (material selection, structural design, life cycle analysis At times, our teams can be required to handle “dangerous goods” as and palletization): PCH develops product packaging to ensure lowest determined by the International Air Transport Association (IATA). cost, maximum efficiency and minimum environmental impact. Our These include lithium ion or lithium polymer cells and batteries, for rigorous reliability testing ensures packaging serves its key purpose example. To ship such goods, consignors are required to prepare a to protect the product inside it. form certifying that the cargo has been packed, labeled and declared >> Software loading, firmware refreshing and device pairing: Software/ according to the IATA. firmware device loading delivers improved supply chain efficiencies and PCH strictly adheres to these regulations and we have robust limits Internet Protocol exposure. Device pairing from different OEM/ processes in place to ensure appropriate handling of these items ODMs consolidates customer shipments. Last-minute regionalization of products and other postponement services can streamline the overall during production. We hold IATA Dangerous Goods Certification and supply chain and reduce the need for larger inventory. have a dedicated team responsible for dangerous goods who receive regular training. In 2016, three PCH colleagues carried out 40 hours of >> Hardware function testing: Hardware tests allow for final product functionality tests across a range of simulated use cases. PCH dangerous goods handling training. ensures all final product specifications are met. PCH is a certified AEO (Authorized Economic Operator) company >> Customer services: and has been approved as compliant with WCO (World Customs >> Laser etching: Etching messages and images (which can be Organization) or equivalent supply chain security standards. personalized to individual requests) on hardware or soft goods. >> Dye-sublimation: Allows for high-quality image transfer using PCH’s proprietary dye-sublimation process (with water-based inks) to ensure high-image fidelity and maximum product reliability. >> Device/package printing: Ultraviolet (UV) cured printing on devices or accessories for high-quality personalized image finishes with excellent reliability properties. >> Vendor-managed inventory (VMI) service: PCH ensures that our customers maintain inventory based on delivery to MPS (Mass Production Schedule), optimizing inventory and leading to easy access and fast turnaround on orders while reducing labor and transportation costs. 24 Developing Partnerships Delivering Peace of Mind He MeiYing / Shen XiuLan Our Purpose About PCH Operations People Supply Network Product Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement Looking Ahead About This Report 25 Real-time includes information on delivery orders, purchased orders, inventory management, production schedules, finance, demand forecast, report generation and product catalogue. Our developers and engineers work with customers to provide: End-to-end >> >> System integration with customer processes System integration with customer partners Traceability >> Development of application tools >> Product line IT setup according to customer requirements >> Online system support to daily production Ultimately, these systems enable us to ensure that our customers always have the right product in the right place at the right time. Where we Ship Units shipped PCH’s in-house software team has developed proprietary system 11.69M+ tools to help our customers better manage their daily business with 100% 90% real-time data. Our comprehensive IT tools enable complete supply network visibility to our customers, allowing real-time traceability of of customers 80% order and shipping status. As soon as a customer or consumer places utilize air freight an order, the details are printed on packaging labels in Shenzhen. PCH 60% 48% has operation integration with over 10 carriers and orders reach 90 44% percent of consumers globally within three days. 40% Through our PCH-owned software suite, PCH Flo, our clients have 20% 6% access anytime/anywhere to real-time end-to-end traceability 2% 0% for every product that PCH touches. Flo’s second-by-second data North Asia Europe Other America Customers by region 26 Developing Partnerships Delivering Peace of Mind Chen YaoFeng / Niu Teng Fei / Peng YuHui Our Purpose About PCH Operations People Supply Network Product Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement Looking Ahead About This Report 27 Our Diverse Our customers choose PCH because of our extensive experience working with design-led, sophisticated products and the supply networks that support them. Customer Base Our customer base ranges from startups to global brands in industries and sectors such as consumer electronics and Internet of Things (IoT), home, medical, health and wellness, beauty, fashion, entertainment and transportation. Our customers include seasoned technology companies as well as newcomers to the tech scene. As such, their understanding, expectations and values around sustainability vary. In the case of large brands, most of whom have sustainability programs, we partner to implement their code of conduct across the supplier network. When a company is new to manufacturing or hardware, we advise them on best practices and help them define minimum requirements, as well as where they can go beyond standard requirements. “In 2016, we conducted specific client satisfaction queries. We were pleased to see an increase in customer satisfaction in our Quarterly Business Review scorecards, with our customers noting more focused attention from our very experienced teams.” – Fiona Lowbridge, PCH head of global account management 28 Developing Partnerships Delivering Peace of Mind Encouraging sustainable products and manufacturing is dependent on ensuring our customers are enthusiastic and engaged. We realize that many of our customers are not aware of the available sustainable solutions, so we view this as an opportunity to help educate and make recommendations. We began in 2015 to include sustainability indicators in our new business proposals, and these efforts have been well received. Indicators include Life Cycle Analysis (LCA) for design engineering, manufacturing and packaging as well as other product solutions. We arm our customers with information about the impact of their product so that they can make the best decisions for their stakeholders and their brand. Most of our customers believe sustainability is an essential part of their brand proposition, and many see that they can achieve significant cost savings and efficiencies through sustainability as well. Customer Satisfaction Keeping our customers satisfied is central to our success, and we continually look for quality and service improvement mechanisms to offer throughout our supply network. This includes both PCH facilities, where we have more control, and supplier facilities, where we can influence sustainability, especially when we have customer support. We did not conduct a formal customer satisfaction survey in 2016 but plan to do so in 2018. Anne Swanberg Our Purpose About PCH Operations People Supply Network Product Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement Looking Ahead About This Report 29 Where we Operate PCH Enhanced Operations in China Reducing our Environmental Impact 30 Developing Partnerships Delivering Peace of Mind Operations PCH in 2016 became a stronger, more efficient and more sustainable company. We consolidated our Shenzhen facilities into a single campus in China’s Futian Free Trade Zone. This change provided numerous benefits to our Company, customers, workers, supply base and the environment. Our improved operations enable greater collaboration and communications. Our employees now enjoy a modernized workplace that includes a new cafeteria, library and relaxation areas. In addition to greater cost efficiencies for our customers and our Company, PCH in China has also reduced energy use, emissions and our overall environmental footprint. Our Purpose About PCH Operations People Supply Network Product Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement Looking Ahead About This Report 31 Where we Office location Operations Operate HQ Cork, Ireland Global Headquarters Shenzhen, China PCH Operational Headquarters, PCH Innovation Hub New York Fab.com office Cape Town, San Francisco South Africa PCH Innovation Hub, Office Hong Kong Highway1 Office Pune, India Fab.com development Who we work with Sectors Markets served (by shipments delivered) Wearables 6% 33% Fashion 48% Europe Medical/Health Entertainment North Global brands America 2% Consumer electronics Other 67% Automotive IoT Agriculture Smallto medium-sized Food Beauty 44% companies (including startups Asia and design studios) 32 Developing Partnerships Delivering Peace of Mind Wu Guidong / Lynn Zeng / Eric Diao Our Purpose About PCH Operations People Supply Network Product Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement Looking Ahead About This Report 33 PCH Enhanced Over the past 20 years in China, PCH expanded into new facilities organically, ultimately occupying five buildings. Today the products we make are more vertically integrated, and so in 2016 we consolidated and streamlined operations to better align with Operations our customer needs. We source, pack out and ship FDA-approved medical devices, IOT hardware, consumer electronics, soft goods and accessories. in China After much planning and evaluation, we moved our facilities to the Futian Free Trade Zone in Shenzhen where we now occupy one building with over 290,600 square feet devoted to pack out and fulfillment and six container bays. We are able to run two shifts, six days a week. The move to the Futian Free Trade Zone was a strategic one that allows our customers favorable China labor rates for pack-out, without paying any duty to export finished goods to the global market. In our new PCH Innovation Hub in China we deliver our full product platform, including design engineering, product development, manufacturing, packaging, fulfillment and distribution. We also have our R&D facility and corporate offices in this location, and we have set up a new employee library, relaxation areas and a canteen. 34 Developing Partnerships Delivering Peace of Mind This consolidation allowed us to reduce our square footage and energy usage, while enhancing our pack out and B2B and B2C fulfillment capacity. We can pack out 200,000 units per day and ship both B2B (parcel and bulk shipments) and B2C orders direct from China. This helps reduce our customers’ global inventory footprint, increases inventory efficiency and reduces waste. The move also encouraged and promoted greater employee cross-functional collaboration, communications and alignment. Our customers report a greater sense of focus and clarity in our service offerings. Our customers choose to work with PCH to benefit from the following business opportunities: >> Near Real-time Replenishment (RTR) >> Rapid demand response >> Shorter cash cycle >> Increased inventory turns >> Decreased inventory exposure >> Decreased inventory write-down risk Chen Lan Our Purpose About PCH Operations People Supply Network Product Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement Looking Ahead About This Report 35 Reducing our Leaner and More Efficient An important result of consolidating our facilities in China was a dramatic reduction in energy and water use and a corresponding Environmental decrease in Greenhouse Gas (GHG) emissions. Moving from a total of 889,724 square feet in five buildings to 350,182 square feet in one building significantly cut our costs and use of resources. Impact Electricity use in our facilities in China in 2016 was 847,302 kWh compared to 5,387,415 kWh in 2015, a decrease of more than 84 percent. Water use went from 41,005 tons in 2015 to 11,608 tons in 2016, a decrease of almost 72 percent. Our GHG emissions in 2016 were 778 metric tons of CO2, while in 2015 they were approximately 4,952 metric tons of CO2. That is a reduction of over 84 percent in GHG emissions. “Our energy monitoring equipment Employees Propose Energy-saving Ideas has proven to be an excellent In 2016 at our factory facilities in China the engineering and production teams were invited to take part in a new workplace energy investment. It alerts us to savings program. Each participating staff member was required to irregularities so we can promptly carry out general research on energy saving and place their findings on a notice board in the factory. Workers were then given the resolve issues and reduce both opportunity to recommend their energy-saving proposals. costs and energy.” – Ula Wang, PCH facilities engineering manager 36 Developing Partnerships Delivering Peace of Mind Eighty-five proposals were put forward by staff. Sixteen of Better Management Through these proposals were shortlisted and three winning proposals were selected. The winning ideas were: 1) a timing system Real-time Data for the office air conditioning so that it would save energy by Our Energy Management System (EMS) helps us track energy turning off at specific times, 2) changing the printer settings consumption at various PCH facilities. Sometimes a simple to print on both sides to save paper, and 3) an electronic observation can lead to a big difference in energy savings. In one signature system to reduce paper usage. All workers were example, we found there was a high use of air conditioning on the welcome to take part in this program, and it proved popular weekends in our office in China, even though staff was not working while increasing worker awareness of energy savings and during that time. PCH energy managers requested that the security waste reduction. guard turn off the air conditioning when he left work. Once this issue Seven of the 16 shortlisted proposals were implemented in was resolved, energy consumption was reduced by 2,000 kWh 2016. These include turning off lights in the production area per month. and office area during the lunch break, reusing plastic bags Another useful aspect of the EMS is that it can provide warnings from materials packaging to collect waste in the production when issues arise. For a new project in 2016, the air humidity in area, turning off vending machines outside of break hours, one production area needed to be kept at precise levels. We added promoting an “environmental protection” culture in the humidity monitors and sensors to the EMS. At one point the EMS factory, using reusable plastic cords when transferring dashboard showed that humidity levels were out of range and not at finished goods within the facility and installing energy-saving an acceptable level. The production team was notified immediately lights in factory production. Two more proposals have been and was able to turn on a machine that had mistakenly shut down. implemented in 2017: the battery-saving setting has been The Energy Management System helped solve this problem quickly turned on for all computers in the production area, and and prevented a production issue. electronic signatures are used for documents when a hard copy of the document isn’t required. Four other proposals will be re-evaluated in 2017 for implementation. Our Purpose About PCH Operations People Supply Network Product Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement Looking Ahead About This Report 37 Environmental Impact 4 Our facilities China One building This facility has a low risk for occupational hazards and The PCH Innovation Hub in China environmental pollution. includes office space, manufacturing, We have environmental data for pack out, fulfillment and distribution Electricity is the only significant form 388,682 sq ft facilities, a loading dock, a product design engineering and development of energy consumed in our facilities. lab, and an R&D center. It is used for air conditioning, lighting and operating machinery associated of our reported operations with pack out and fulfillment. (94% of the total) 350,182 sq ft Our facilities do not utilize heat or steam. U.S. Two buildings Natural gas used for heating and hot water. • PCH Innovation Hub • PCH Hardware Accelerator (Highway1) Electricity used for all other needs, including to power our state-of-the-art prototyping and systems integration lab. 38,500 sq ft These offices are home to Fab.com, Other Five buildings5 finance, sales, marketing, IT and One office each in Cape Town, global operations. South Africa; Cork, Ireland; Hong Kong; New York; and Pune, India These offices use electricity, domestic water and materials (environmental data not provided by landlord). 26,074 sq ft 4. All information for our U.S. sites is obtained from third parties. 5. Environmental data is unavailable for our Cork, New York, Hong Kong, Cape Town and Pune offices. We expect to include these locations in our measurements in 2017. 38 Developing Partnerships Delivering Peace of Mind Resource use6 Electricity use Water use Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions 1,427,764 kWh global total 12,685 tons 1,220 metric tons of CO2 global total U.S. 442 metric tons CO 2 U.S. China U.S. China (36%) 580,462 kWh 847,302 kWh 1,077 tons 11,608 tons China 778 metric tons CO 2 (64%) Gas use Waste produced7 7,908 therms 69,222 lbs. U.S. U.S. total Hazardous waste produced in China: Landfill U.S. Recycled electronic waste U.S. Waste water mixed with lubricant oil: 110.2 lbs. 29,752 lbs. (43%) 253 lbs. (1%) Waste lubricant oil: 52.9 lbs. Light tubes: 201.7 lbs. Recycling U.S. Hazardous waste global total Hazardous chemical container: 45.9 lbs. 28,258 lbs. (40%) 1,634 lbs. (2%) Used batteries: 6.6 lbs. Compost U.S. U.S. China Waste organic solvent: 112.4 lbs. 9,859 lbs. (14%) 1,100 lbs. (67%) 534 lbs. (33%) Cloth mixed with solvent: 4.4 lbs. 6. U.S. data: All information was received from third parties. The water consumption information was received from the San Francisco Public Utilities Commission through the property management (CBRE) and Godtland Enterprises. The waste information was received from Recology (Waste Management Co.). The gas and electric usage was received from Pacific Gas & Electric accounts. 7. All waste is disposed of by licensed operators. Hazardous waste generated in our owned facilities is the only available waste data for our operations in China. All non-hazardous waste (scraps) generated in PCH facilities are owned by our customers and we dispose of them according to our client wishes using licensed operators. Our Purpose About PCH Operations People Supply Network Product Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement Looking Ahead About This Report 39 About our People Positioning PCH for the Future Worker Health and Safety Improves at PCH in China Career Enhancement Opportunities Developing and Engaging People Gender and Diversity Overtime Grievances LuTong Yang 40 Developing Partnerships Delivering Peace of Mind People The safety and wellbeing of the people who work for PCH directly and indirectly through suppliers is our greatest priority. Our Corporate Social Responsibility policies focus on health and safety training, mentorship, education, social and cultural activities, and open communications. We support a variety of communications channels: an open-door policy, one-on-one communications, a telephone hotline and WeChat instant messaging. These create a positive work environment by fostering open and trusted communications at all levels of the organization. We also encourage teamwork, which is fundamental to our company values and fosters positive relationships between coworkers and managers. Individuals and teams are also empowered to help improve workplace safety, efficiency and innovation. Most importantly, we foster an open culture where workers feel comfortable talking to managers about opportunities and concerns. Our Purpose About PCH Operations People Supply Network Product Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement Looking Ahead About This Report 41 About our People 604 Total workforce 2.9 years Average length of service Employee gender 55% Female employees 45% Male employees Region Employees Operators Office staff Supervised workers7 Total workforce % of total workforce U.S. and 0 111 12 123 20% Canada China 252 169 9 430 71% Employee age Ireland 0 10 4 14 2% South 0 8 0 8 1% 23% Africa Below 30 India 0 29 0 29 5% Employee age range Total 252 327 25 604 100% 4% Above 50 73% Between 30-50 42 Developing Partnerships Delivering Peace of Mind Education level of PCH employees 30.77% 9% College (without 48% bachelor degree) University/ bachelor Education and above level 5% Senior leadership is female Secondary / attained technical school 10% Parental leave High school education 28% Middle school education We abide by all parental leave entitlements in accordance with local laws. 100 percent of eligible PCH employees who took parental leave in 2016 returned to work afterwards. Male Female Total Entitled to parental leave during 2016 7 21 28 96% Contract type Full-time Took parental leave during 2016 7 21 28 employees Total numbers returning to work after 7 21 28 parental leave (due to return during 2016 up 4% to 31 Dec 2016) Supervised workers8 Return to work rate 9 100% 100% 100% Employee types Retention rate10 100% 33% 53% 8. Supervised workers are all non-employees: workers hired through dispatch agencies or contractors, consultants and interns. 9. Calculated as 2016 returned/2016 took leave. 10. Calculated as total number of employees retained 12 months after returning to work following a period of parental leave in 2015/Total number of employees returning from parental leave in 2015. Our Purpose About PCH Operations People Supply Network Product Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement Looking Ahead About This Report 43 Positioning of design engineering and development and our deeply established manufacturing, pack out, fulfillment and delivery services. As part of our organizational changes, we reviewed internal roles and PCH for determined that a shift in the composition of our global workforce, including a reduction in roles, was necessary to position PCH to best serve our customers’ needs. Most of the impacted employees were in China where we consolidated our facilities into a single, modern the Future campus in the Futian Free Trade Zone (you can find a discussion of the new facility on page 34). All affected employees were offered a redundancy package that was above industry norms along with support to transition to new employment. The nature of the products we work with today – combining hardware, software and services – requires continuity throughout development, PCH’s business model is unique. While we always retain responsibility manufacturing and supply chain. Many of our customers work closely for producing high-quality products for our customers at every step of with PCH through the early product concept and engineering phase, the product journey, our strategy is to own manufacturing capability which is highly iterative, as well as during the manufacturing stage only when we can provide highly unique, differentiated and value-add where proximity to our supplier network is key. In 2016, we merged our services to our customers. This gives us the flexibility to source and engineering teams in China and San Francisco under our PCH Lime Lab manage the best suppliers for our customers while specializing within division. Now we operate as one team with two advantageous locations our own facilities on product development, packaging development, – one in the heart of the industrial design center of San Francisco pack out, fulfillment, personalization, manufacturing and global and the other embedded within the manufacturing and increasingly supply chain services. innovative center of Shenzhen. With 142 engineers, PCH works with customers globally and applies engineering resources as needed, In 2016, we made a number of organizational changes to support depending on our customers’ requirements. this strategy, to sharpen our focus on differentiated services that set PCH apart and to minimize services that have become commoditized. We continually evaluate our organization to stay ahead of key trends These changes unlocked opportunities to diversify our customer base and to remain focused on differentiated services that set PCH apart. and to drive sustainable, profitable growth. They also support our We expect our organization will continue to evolve to keep PCH in the continued effort to foster close alignment between the early phases best position to provide services to our highly dynamic customer base. 44 Developing Partnerships Delivering Peace of Mind Bin HongYun Our Purpose About PCH Operations People Supply Network Product Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement Looking Ahead About This Report 45 Worker Health As health and safety awareness becomes more widespread in China, we can report that in 2016, there were no fatalities, no injuries and no lost work days due to injuries at PCH in China. We continue our commitment to promoting both a safe work environment and safe and Safety work practices. In addition to providing relevant safety training to our employees, PCH regularly reviews and monitors its health and safety management systems to comply with current requirements. Improvements PCH in China has a Social and Environmental Committee (50 people), which is responsible for factory labor, environment, ethics, and health and safety management. The committee is comprised of at PCH in China management, production staff and engineers. Overall, 17 percent of the factory workforce participates in the committee. At our factory facilities, we monitor potential hazards related to fire safety, chemical use, equipment safety and occupational health. We promote safety programs across our communications channels and supplier base. “Safety is our highest priority. We have a very good record when it comes to preventing injuries on the job and worker safety overall. We continually monitor, educate and train our workforce to prevent injuries and develop our workforce for continued improvements.” – Amy He, PCH internal EHS auditor 46 Developing Partnerships Delivering Peace of Mind Training + Awareness = Results Educating employees is the key to enhancing workplace health and safety. Training and open communications empower workers to report issues in factories that otherwise might be overlooked. By training and educating employees, we drive high standards and help grow our organization in a sustainable and responsible manner. In 2016, PCH recorded no injuries to factory workers and no injuries or illness amongst corporate employees who work at our own and our supplier facilities. All injuries that occur at our facilities must be reported to the local social security bureau. PCH in China health and safety data 2015 2016 Injuries 1 0 Fatalities /occupational diseases 0 0 Lost days 76 0 17% of our factory workforce participates in a Health and Safety Committee Yang XinCui / Si GuiXiang Our Purpose About PCH Operations People Supply Network Product Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement Looking Ahead About This Report 47 Career Mentors, Classes Motivate Employees All PCH employees receive on-the-job training. In addition, we also offer employees additional career enhancement opportunities. Enhancement We believe it is essential to encourage and help our employees grow through career development programs. In 2016, our staff participated in a variety of training and development sessions such as: Opportunities >> 1,240 hours of training on customer service, English and Chinese proficiency, management skills, soft skills and technical workshops were provided to 119 participants. >> Presentations were held across PCH to educate staff on team roles and services at the company, including sustainability. >> Factory workers attended over 4,790 hours of training, including human rights and CSR training as well as courses on management, finance, and health and safety. >> Factory workforce engagement programs were offered via the Little Bird programs. >> A mentorship program was offered at PCH Lime Lab in San Francisco. >> PCH engineers attended embedded software training, CAD (computer-aided design) training and soft goods training for DFM (Design For Manufacturing). “We like mentorship programs because they foster one-on-one relationships and open communications, and they create learning and development opportunities.” – Melissa Cook, PCH Lime Lab human resources manager 48 Developing Partnerships Delivering Peace of Mind Zhou XiaoRong / WuHui Our Purpose About PCH Operations People Supply Network Product Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement Looking Ahead About This Report 49 Developing and We encourage individual and collective team development. We achieve this through our many training and development programs available to employees and teams, as well as our ongoing association with Little Bird. Engaging our Our Little Bird Partnership People PCH values our long-term partnership with Little Bird, an independent, non-governmental organization, and continues to see the Little Bird Hotline as a valuable tool for gathering insights about our workforce. Employees are encouraged to use the hotline and be candid about any issues they feel need to be addressed by the company. The hotline is confidential and anonymous, and operated by Little Bird. We will continue to partner with Little Bird to provide workers with a variety of services, including career counseling, opinion collection, dispute mediation, cultural development and occupational safety training. In addition, PCH and Little Bird collaborate in providing a library and learning lab onsite at the PCH facilities. The library and learning lab were temporarily closed in mid-2016 because the Company moved facilities, but reopened once construction was completed. 50 Developing Partnerships Delivering Peace of Mind Phoenix Chen / Simon Lv / Antoine Messager / Huang Ming Little Bird Activities in 2016 15 32 66 161 Training Suggestions Activities Training event events from workers participants 280 398 1,671 4,386 7,518 Borrowed Hotline calls Activity Library visits Instant books participants messages Our Purpose About PCH Operations People Supply Network Product Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement Looking Ahead About This Report 51 Gender and Instilling a company culture that values diversity is particularly important at PCH because we have both a diverse employee base and customers from around the world. We believe respect for diversity is good for business, as well as the right thing to do. We Diversity also place great emphasis on gender equality because women are often underrepresented in the hardware and technology sectors. At PCH in 2016, 30.77 percent of the senior leadership team were women, and 27.59 percent of senior management roles were held by women. Employee category by gender and age M F <30 30-50 >50 Senior leadership 69.23% 30.77% 0.0% 69.2% 30.8% Senior management 72.41% 27.59% 3.4% 89.7% 6.9% Middle management 78.12% 21.88% 6.3% 87.4% 6.3% Individual contributor 54.61% 45.39% 29.8% 65.6% 4.6% Factory staff 25.0% 75.0% 21.8% 78.2% 0.0% 52 Developing Partnerships Delivering Peace of Mind Cara McEachern Our Purpose About PCH Operations People Supply Network Product Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement Looking Ahead About This Report 53 Overtime While a standard work schedule in China is 40 hours per week, our Supplier Code of Conduct requires that factory workers work no more than 20 hours per week of overtime and no more than 36 hours of overtime per month, except in emergency or unusual situations. During consolidation of our facilities, employees were on deadline to organize and transfer materials to our new building and we were stretched because of downsizing. This resulted in overtime hours. The opportunity to work overtime is a priority for our workforce and if it is not available, many workers will seek alternative employment. All overtime is voluntary, and workers are entitled to at least one day off per seven-day week. Workweeks exceeding 60 hours are deemed excessive by industry associations. “Most factory workers want overtime. All overtime is voluntary and a certain amount is allowed according to regulations. However, this past year we saw some breaches in overtime hours because of condensed production schedules and extraordinary circumstances. We continue to monitor this issue and are working towards 100 percent compliance with the policy.” – Celine Zhai, PCH sustainability program manager 54 Developing Partnerships Delivering Peace of Mind Overtime 2014 2015 2016 Average work week 51 52 44 (hours) Compliance with 99% 100% 91% code of conduct Breaches of 60-hour work week (number 8 0 17 of weeks) Average rest days 5 6 5 per month Breaches of one rest 6 0 3 day per week Eric Diao Our Purpose About PCH Operations People Supply Network Product Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement Looking Ahead About This Report 55 Grievances We expect there will always be some grievances reported by employees, and we see this as healthy that employees feel comfortable reporting. The most important solution is to have a mechanism for grievances to be addressed quickly and for employees to feel their concerns are taken seriously. At PCH in China, we saw a large drop in the number of grievances submitted, from 245 in 2015 to 25 in 2016 (a decrease of almost 90 percent). This mainly is a reflection of our workforce reduction and consolidation of factory space, engineering lab and other offices into a modern, more efficient facility. Grievance Mechanisms All of our grievance mechanisms are tailored to comply with “We have an open culture where local laws and regulations and to promote an atmosphere of open communications. At our corporate offices, HR teams and employees are encouraged to management are trained to foster an open-door culture, where grievances can be expressed formally or informally. In our factories, discuss issues candidly with we have implemented a formal grievance program. managers or at town hall We want our factory workers to feel they have a forum to express meetings. We look at these concerns formally, and we want them to trust that their concerns will be resolved in a fair and timely manner. This helps us drive discussions as opportunities continuous improvement. Much of the feedback we receive continues to center around suggestions for workplace improvement or seeking to improve our operations and clarification of local rules and regulations. The Little Bird partnership has also encouraged open dialogue between PCH management and company morale.” our workforce. – Christie Ma, PCH head of human resources China We continue to operate multiple grievance mechanisms, and most are available to our workforce 24 hours a day. We operate four grievance systems for factory workers. 56 Developing Partnerships Delivering Peace of Mind Human Resources (HR) or factory management can be reached via: Number of Grievances 2014-2016 1. Direct contact with line-leader, supervisor or manager. 2. Suggestion box – Employees can express their concerns or make suggestions anonymously through suggestion boxes. These boxes are checked every Monday and action is usually taken within 15 141 245 25 days of the concern/suggestion being submitted. This may take longer in certain situations, for example, where a worker survey is 2014 2015 2016 required to get wider employee feedback, or more time is needed to fully investigate the case. 3. Employee forum – Held once per quarter, this gathering is attended by employee representatives, factory general managers, the HR managers and the internal audit team. Human Resources 20% 20% will supervise the implementation of improvements from the Dorms Other: employee relationship, training, forum. Responses and improvements are posted on a notice board leave, personal issues within three months. 4% 4. Little Bird – Little Bird sends employee concerns and suggestions Food directly to the Sustainability Team, who discusses issues with HR once a week. Most issues are resolved within one month, or if a more serious concern arises, it is addressed immediately. 2016 12% Grievances Since our partnership with Little Bird began in 2012, this platform has Social insurance by type become increasingly popular among our staff to express concerns/ and housing fund suggestions in the workplace. It continues to be our most popular 20% grievance mechanism among factory workers. Management strives Factory management to close all grievances within three months, and address and close serious grievances promptly. All grievances received in 2016 were closed by year-end. Note that the large decrease in 2016 grievances was mainly due to a reduced workforce. 24% Pay and welfare Our Purpose About PCH Operations People Supply Network Product Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement Looking Ahead About This Report 57 Partnering with our Suppliers Audit Discoveries Health and Safety in Supplier Facilities Wang Qi / Zhang HongMei / Chen RongLing 58 Developing Partnerships Delivering Peace of Mind Supply Network Partnerships are the cornerstone of PCH. We foster trusted and long-term partnerships with our customers and our suppliers to maximize opportunities and solve problems together. PCH views sustainability the same way we see our partnerships: When we work together we get the best results, and we must do this in an atmosphere of trust and mutual benefit. We seek to form strong, strategic long-term relationships with our suppliers so that we can have significant influence on the supply network. Our Purpose About PCH Operations People Supply Network Product Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement Looking Ahead About This Report 59 Partnering with Our relationships with suppliers provide us with the opportunity to have greater influence across our supply network and incorporate sustainable practices in all areas of our business, even those that we can only influence and not control. At a minimum, suppliers comply our Suppliers with all applicable local laws and regulations and must sign our Supplier Code of Conduct agreement to work with us. In 2016 PCH transacted with 134 suppliers globally (not including PCH Lime Lab North America suppliers). The majority of our company spend is focused on customer-selected suppliers; however, most of our development programs focus on PCH-selected suppliers because we believe this is where we can have the greatest impact. The PCH Supply Network To create each product, multiple factories are often required. In turn, these factories utilize other factories to produce their materials and components. The diagram below represents the possible complexity of the supply network for a product, as well as the influences and controls that PCH has over each link in the chain. PCH packaging PCH fulfillment PCH engineering PCH-owned factories Components Raw materials PCH customers PCH Supplier network PCH Access* PCH Lime Lab* Delivery Manufacturing Parts Highway1* Fab^ PCH controlled * PCH controls these programs, but we are only positioned to influence PCH influenced the participating companies/startups involved. ^ PCH does not report on this company. 60 Developing Partnerships Delivering Peace of Mind Specialized Products Require Specialized Our sustainable supplier network selection program is a five-step process: Supply Networks 1. Initial evaluation of the supplier. This involves a factory Selecting the right suppliers for PCH and our customers is essential inspection by a member of each of the following PCH teams: as we pride ourselves on being a leading partner for companies project management (PM), supply base management (SBM), creating new products. It is crucial that we partner with the right client quality management (CQM) and engineering. suppliers that have the expertise to work with innovative products. We place emphasis on our supplier qualification process to screen for 2. The PCH procurement team or customer identifies supplier based the best results. on capabilities. 3. The PCH Sustainability Team conducts a factory readiness assessment to determine if the supplier can meet PCH and/or our customers’ audit requirements. “We continually evaluate and conduct 4. An independent third party auditor appointed by our customer select audits on key suppliers to conducts supplier audit, or, the PCH audit team conducts onsite Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) risk assessment. The team ensure they uphold our guidelines and rates supplier performance and management systems and identifies areas for improvement. Suppliers have three months to standards. Having been in China for over follow up on action items. 20 years, we have trusted relationships 5. Once the supplier is admitted to the PCH network, the Sustainability Team conducts supplier development programs, that continue to grow. Our suppliers trust including health and safety, system building, energy monitoring, us to help guide them when it comes to chemical mapping and social programs. sustainability and other key practices.” – Alan Cuddihy, PCH head of sustainability Our Purpose About PCH Operations People Supply Network Product Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement Looking Ahead About This Report 61 In 2016, we introduced the supplier initial evaluation stage, which How we Manage our Supply Base involves our PCH team members inspecting a supplier factory to see if it is likely to pass the PCH or our customers’ audit requirements. This We follow industry best practices and consider the issues of social, saves time where it is clear the supplier will not pass an audit or be environmental, health and safety impact and business risk when suitable for the project. This stage involves the supplier signing the determining which suppliers to audit. Audits set a baseline; they non-disclosure agreement. The factory will be scored on engineering cover quality, sustainability and chemical management practices. We and technical ability, quality management, project management cannot audit every individual supplier as this would require substantial and supply based management. The supplier must score at least resources, therefore we focus on areas of the supply chain that 60 out of 100 to be considered a PCH audit candidate. This initial pose the most risk. Annual audits identify preferred suppliers, with evaluation is carried out by at least one member of the following PCH scores weighted at 50 percent for quality, 35 percent for social and teams: supply base management, project management, client quality environmental practices and 15 percent for chemical management. management and engineering. In 2016, we began to evaluate our key suppliers in our biannual At PCH we have two types of suppliers: those selected by PCH and performance survey. This survey is carried out by a member of the those selected by our customers. For customer-selected suppliers, we CQM team and the SBM team. Supplier scores are weighted 40 percent do not conduct our own audits but work with customers to conduct on quality, 20 percent on delivery performance, 20 percent on pricing audits that meet their specifications. performance and 20 percent on service performance. This helps us ensure that our key suppliers, those that we do most of our business We encourage and expect our network of suppliers to adhere to our with, maintain the standards that we expect. Supplier Code of Conduct and to operate to the highest standards of social and environmental compliance, even beyond what is mandated. We continue to audit our supplier factories and influence our supply network to raise the bar on social and environmental compliance. 62 Developing Partnerships Delivering Peace of Mind Pack out line Our Purpose About PCH Operations People Supply Network Product Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement Looking Ahead About This Report 63 Factories PCH Transacted with 8% Prototyping and validation 35 54% Materials and New components 21% Printing and packaging Supplier 134 spend by industry 7% Final assembly, test and pack Total suppliers 99 10% Service items Existing 7% North America* 71% China 1,000+ 2.5 76% Guangdong 22% Jiangsu Supplier years 18% Asia-Pacific^ spend by 2% Shanghai and other parts of China location Number of suppliers Average length of in our network supplier relationship 4% Europe * Excludes PCH Lime Lab North America suppliers. ^ Excludes suppliers in China. 64 Developing Partnerships Delivering Peace of Mind Our Supplier Audits Audits are conducted in PCH-selected factories only. 75 PCH-selected suppliers Standard compliance programs 134 43 suppliers audited 0 suppliers failed Total suppliers 1,300+ 59 Customer-selected suppliers Hours spent on health and safety at supplier sites Our Purpose About PCH Operations People Supply Network Product Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement Looking Ahead About This Report 65 Audit In 2016, we identified a suitable supplier to work on a customer project. After carrying out our audit, we found that the supplier didn’t have an effective overtime structure in place. This led to certain scenarios where individual workers worked over 60 hours per Discoveries week and over 90 hours of overtime per month. This violates PCH and industry standards. The supplier wanted to pass the audit and work with our customer, so they agreed to implement overtime controls to ensure individual working hours would not exceed 60 hours per week. This included making sure workers had at least one day off per seven-day week. This led to a positive result; however, we are conscious that this and other issues can reoccur if a supplier covers up violations in “PCH has a zero-tolerance policy subsequent audits. We continue to work with this supplier but will re-audit in 2017 to ensure compliance is maintained. towards child labor. We follow PCH has a zero-tolerance policy towards child labor in our own and industry standards and check for in supplier facilities. Child labor refers to any worker under the age of 16. All new hires to PCH have their identity and age verified by our child labor during our audit process, HR teams. For our suppliers, we follow industry recommendations and we check for child labor during our audit process. All 43 audits as well as conducting spot checks (including existing and new suppliers) conducted in 2016 included a on suppliers we audit. There were no check for child labor and prevention systems as well as factory floor spot checks. incidents of child labor during the There were no incidents of child labor during the audits conducted audits conducted in 2016.” in 2016. Additionally, when it comes to young workers (aged 16 to 18), we had no young workers or students (participants in internships – Larry Huang, PCH director of quality arranged through an educational institution) working with us in 2016. 66 Developing Partnerships Delivering Peace of Mind Small suppliers are often less costly to customers, and in some cases our customers choose to work with them. These suppliers sometimes do not qualify for a PCH audit and may fall short of our standards in certain areas such as labor and safety practices. In 2016, a customer selected a small supplier to work with as they felt this supplier was best suited to match their business strategy, even though they didn’t meet all of our corporate social responsibility criteria. In this case, we provided improvement actions for the supplier to complete within a two-year period. For risk mitigation reasons, we carried out checks for all zero-tolerance practices (including child labor and falsification of salary or worker hours) as well as safety standards such as emergency exits and fire hazards. We made a variety of recommendations to this factory to improve its operations, including chemical management and employee safety. To see our full policy, please go to our website (http://www.pchintl. com/sustainability/policies-and-code-of-conduct/) Li YuYing Our Purpose About PCH Operations People Supply Network Product Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement Looking Ahead About This Report 67 Health One of the greatest challenges we face is the health and safety of workers in our supplier network. We place great emphasis on this, as we recognize that the quality of products and services and consistency of workers’ morale are enhanced by a safe and healthy and Safety working environment. in Supplier Strategies for Supplier Health and Safety Health and safety management programs at supplier facilities include Facilities chemical management, fire safety, ventilation and electrical safety. Audits and daily spot checks cover emergency exits, equipment safety, chemical labels and other potential hazards. We are working with our suppliers to help them integrate health and safety procedures into daily operations. This includes providing training and resources as well as identifying targets for continuous improvement. When necessary, PCH establishes health and safety procedures at supplier factories, and PCH sets up Key Performance Indicators (KPIs), which measure how well the factory meets its targets. The intent is to integrate health and safety methods into the supplier’s day-to-day operations. “We have high expectations regarding EHS requirements. We integrate EHS from the earliest stages of production before the lines are up and running, and we make any necessary changes before we move to mass production.” – Jason Yu, PCH operations director 68 Developing Partnerships Delivering Peace of Mind Pre-startup Safety Review In January 2016, we selected one project for the pilot run of our pre-startup safety review (PSSR). The PSSR covers eight areas, including general safety, life safety, chemical management, occupational health, machine safety, electrical safety, environment management and emergency response. During the review, the engineering, production, program management and the Employee Health and Safety (EHS) teams all got involved. By involving all project team members at an early stage, we ensure that everyone is aware from the start of our safety standards and criteria. This early awareness and full team support minimizes accidents and improves overall safety. The PSSR is for high-risk production lines and was only in effect for the pilot run in 2016. For all other projects, we led with an EHS evaluation at the beginning of each project as well as supplier qualification from a CSR perspective, and this is how we intend to manage risk in the future. However, if a project presents a high risk for safety issues, then we will carry out a PSSR. Pre-production Safety Considerations We have identified an excellent opportunity to improve supplier EHS management by engaging at the process design stage. Before production begins, we assess health, safety and environmental factors to identify and prevent EHS risk. Cheng RongLing / Zhang HeDong Our Purpose About PCH Operations People Supply Network Product Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement Looking Ahead About This Report 69 Life Cycle Analysis Managing Chemicals Safely Zhou LiuMing / Peng YuHui 70 Developing Partnerships Delivering Peace of Mind Product Product sustainability addresses materials, chemicals, conflict minerals, packaging, shipping and inventory management. We seize the opportunity to educate our customers about the impact of products at the exploration and design engineering stage, all the way through to manufacturing, distribution and end-of-life. We also strive to influence industrial designers to consider sustainability early in their process. Our Purpose About PCH Operations People Supply Network Product Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement Looking Ahead About This Report 71 Life Cycle Packaging Lifecycle Analysis (LCA) is now available to all PCH customers. LCA is the systematic approach to assessing the environmental impact of a product’s entire lifecycle, from raw materials to end-of-life disposal. Packaging LCA integrates Analysis sustainability into design to reduce packaging size and impact, and improve the customer experience. We conduct packaging reviews with customers to help them make the best decisions about quality, cost and sustainability impact. We strive to design, develop and produce beautiful, sustainable solutions that have the maximum positive impact on the consumer experience and the least impact on the environment. 72 Developing Partnerships Delivering Peace of Mind Adam Reed-Erickson Our Purpose About PCH Operations People Supply Network Product Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement Looking Ahead About This Report 73 Smarter Sustainable We develop and produce efficient and smart packaging solutions that have the maximum positive impact on the consumer out-of-box Packaging experience and minimal impact on the environment. In one example in 2016, a client approached us with packaging that was big, bulky and expensive to ship. In this case a large volume of packaging was being used for a small product. The PCH design team saw an opportunity to significantly improve both the packaging and the environmental impact. The original packaging had significant empty space and rigid cardboard inserts that could easily scratch the product during transit. The large size of the package meant large amounts of materials being used and high shipping costs. In general, the original packaging presented major inefficiencies. “We relish the opportunity to help our customers improve their packaging to meet greater efficiencies while also enhancing the customer out-of-box experience. The key is to enhance sustainability while optimizing the customer experience.” – Josa Leung, PCH design manager 74 Developing Partnerships Delivering Peace of Mind The packaging design team presented the client with several Throughout the design process we were conscious of the logistical flow alternative designs. The client was particularly interested in one design of the product. We ensured that the packaging design passed the drop which was a foldable, unique package made of corrugated wood-free test and was suitable for both business-to-business and business-topaper. This design provided a sleek, efficient and beautiful consumer shipments. packaging alternative. Sustainable packaging can greatly reduce environmental impact, which The new design was efficient in terms of shipping, sustainability and is evident when comparing the client’s original design to the PCH design. cost optimization. It also provided the end consumer with a great outThe environmental impact reduced GHG emissions, water consumption of-box experience, which was a priority for our customer. and fossil fuel consumption, as well as shipping costs. Sustainable Packaging Design Old design New design Unit Percentage change Space required on pallets 0.033 (unit carton) 0.006 (unit carton) Meters cubed (m3)/unit -81.8% Cost of packaging 5.6 2.97 USD$/unit (per purchase of 10,000 units) -47% Cost of shipping 5.20/pc 1.00/pc USD$/pc from China to UK -80.8% Fossil fuel consumption ~29MJ ~11MJ Mega joules (MJ) -62.07% GHG emissions ~1.9kg CO2e ~0.8kg CO2e Greenhouse gas kg of CO2e equivalent -57.9% Our Purpose About PCH Operations People Supply Network Product Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement Looking Ahead About This Report 75 Rad Bosuego 76 Developing Partnerships Delivering Peace of Mind Our Policy on Conflict Expanding our Materials Library Minerals Our materials library was developed by our San Francisco and Shenzhen engineering teams to drive awareness of material selection options and to encourage innovation when it comes to materials. The project is ongoing, and PCH will continue to conduct material assessments and research alternative materials to help customers make the most sustainable material selections possible. It is a requirement in our Supplier Code of Conduct that no conflict minerals be procured or used by PCH suppliers in the production of our customers’ products. We welcome the advent of conflict minerals mapping as it encourages suppliers to be transparent and track potential use of minerals that are mined in areas of the world where there are armed conflicts and human rights abuses. Most electronic manufacturers have a mapping system in place in accordance with the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) Guidance for Responsible Supply Chains of Minerals from Conflict-Affected and High-Risk Areas. Our Purpose About PCH Operations People Supply Network Product Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement Looking Ahead About This Report 77 Managing Chemical use in both PCH and our supplier factories is a priority health and safety concern. The careful and monitored use of chemicals is important to PCH and the entire industry. We spend considerable time and resources identifying and managing chemicals Chemicals both in our own factories and those of our suppliers. Hazardous chemicals are those that are poisonous, corrosive, explosive or ignitable and which may pose a hazard for people, equipment or the Safely environment. Hazardous agents get into the body by inhalation more than by any other route. Therefore, chemical exposure on the factory line is a critical concern and carefully monitored. Our customers are increasingly interested in monitoring the chemicals that are being used in their products and in the manufacturing process. To date, over 1,300 chemicals have been mapped and documented by the PCH Sustainability Team. Testing for Hazardous Substances We work together with our customers and our suppliers to ensure that the chemicals used in their products are compliant with chemical regulations and directives. We help our clients with chemical testing and the preparation of the required chemical compliance documentation, which is essential for product registration and customs clearance. In one case, a supplier notified us that a PCH consigned material failed the restriction of hazardous substances (ROHS) test because chromium was found in the product. However, this test could only calculate the total chromium and not the chemical Hexavalent Chromium, which is the element under ROHS control. PCH sent all the suspect material to a third-party for analysis and the results showed no trace of Hexavalent Chromium, so this product was in compliance with the ROHS directives. 78 Developing Partnerships Delivering Peace of Mind Our Chemical Safety Policy It is important that PCH factory facilities and supplier partners maintain a Material Safety Data Sheet (MSDS) for each product being manufactured. An MSDS contains pertinent information about chemical ingredients, physical characteristics, proper handling, fire safety and emergency handling. When we examine chemicals, we consider both sacrificial materials that are used during the manufacturing process (that do not form part of the final product) as well as those that are part of the final product. These chemicals are used in processes such as coating, gluing, laminating, cleaning, electroplating, printing, screen-printing and painting. How we address chemical management: 1. Possible elimination 2. Substitution at concept phase 3. Proper ventilation 4. Establishing a safe distance between the chemical and worker 5. Providing personal protective equipment (PPE) When gathering chemical information, the strength of our relationship with the supplier is paramount to getting accurate data. Some suppliers, particularly sub-tier, are cautious about disclosing the chemicals they use. Ideally, we try to provide training to suppliers, but sometimes because of tight production schedules and the turnover of products, it is not always feasible. Yang GuiLan Our Purpose About PCH Operations People Supply Network Product Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement Looking Ahead About This Report 79 Materiality Matrix How we Communicate with Stakeholders Sustainability Governance Alex Siano / Jonny Tang / Nick Cruz 80 Developing Partnerships Delivering Peace of Mind Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement We conducted a formal materiality study and stakeholder analysis that engaged our stakeholder groups in 2015. We found that our materiality study and stakeholder analysis was still widely valid for 2016; however, we made some minor adjustments in certain areas to ensure the greatest accuracy. Understanding the material issues for our different stakeholders is essential for our business, as it allows us to prioritize issues accordingly. We will continue to review our material issues on an annual basis. Our Purpose About PCH Operations People Supply Network Product Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement Looking Ahead About This Report 81 Materiality Matrix 4.70 Management and Governance Environmental Management Very High 6 7 1 Business integrity and ethics 17 Safe manufacturing 8 2 Transparency and accountability 18 Waste reduction through 4.60 inventory management 3 Risk and reputation management 1 19 Alternative materials/chemicals 4 Economic impacts 20 Supplier environmental 5 Internal communication performance 4.50 14 11 and knowledge transfer 12 9 21 Sustainable packaging 2 Business Practices 22 Sustainable design 4.40 23 6 Human rights protection/ External Stakeholders 15 17 prevention of child labor Suppliers 24 7 Client privacy and intellectual 23 Health and safety for all 4.30 4 25 property protection PCH employees 26 3 27 10 8 Compliance 24 Supplier audits/code of conduct 13 compliance 29 9 Non-discriminatory pay 25 Anti-corruption 4.20 10 Fair business practices 26 Supply network traceability 30 Industry Collaboration 27 Responsible procurement practices 31 18 4.10 19 20 11 Customer satisfaction 28 Grievance mechanisms 16 5 21 12 Product compliance 32 28 22 Employees/Labor Practices 13 Accurate production planning 33 4.00 29 Fair wages and working hours Product/Service Delivery 30 Training/career development opportunities High 14 Time, cost, price competitiveness 31 Diversity and equal opportunity 15 Product innovation to solve 3.90 4.00 4.10 4.20 4.30 4.40 4.50 4.60 social/environmental problems 32 Recruitment and retention High Internal Stakeholders Very High 16 Accurate product and service labeling 33 Labor management relations 82 Developing Partnerships Delivering Peace of Mind How we Communicate with Stakeholders ALL -HA AG EN AU DI T ND SM AU C I E S DI CO NF S EE T IN G CO T S NF EV EN E REN C S E V EREN EN CE FAC T SEE S FAC T S E-T S L I T TO FA TLE B CE LIT TL O-F MI E BI R E AC MI C R IR D CR ME O BEN D ME O BEN DI EFI DI A EFI NE A WS L E TS NE PO WS L ET TS PO S T E T T ER ST R EC ER S T ER R EC R S RU IT SU RU I TM SU RV M EN RV SU E Y S EN TF SU E Y S STA TF A IR S STA T H IN A B A IR S T H IN A B RO U GH IL I T YR RO TO U G H IT Y RI L TO WN H CLI EP E N O RT TR WN H CLI EP E N O RT TR A IN A L L S TS A IN A L L S I TS W E IN G BS WE BS G WO I T E N WO I T E Stakeholder Group Location Stakeholder Group Location RD OF -M RD OF -M OU TH OU TH PCH Factory Employees China Media and Social Media Global PCH Corporate Employees Global Prospective Workforce Global (Global) Factory Landlords China PCH Office Employees China Supplier Dispatch Workers China in Factory Dispatch Agencies China Large Clients Global Peer Companies Global Medium Clients Global Academia Global Small Clients (Startups) Global End-of-life Recycling Plants Asia /U.S./ Pro-social Entrepreneurs Global Europe PCH-selected Suppliers China Industrial Service Providers China Investors and Board Global Direct Consumers Asia /U.S./ of Directors Europe Factory Owners China Other Consumers Asia /U.S./ (End-product) Europe Supplier Employees China Trade Unions China PCH Dispatch Agency Hires China Industry Associations Global Non-governmental Global Retail Stores Global Organizations Logistics Companies Global Prospective Customers Global and Freight Forwarders Customer-selected Global Suppliers Agencies and Consultants Global Local Communities China / U.S./ Design Associations U.S. Ireland and Design Consultants Our Purpose About PCH Operations People Supply Network Product Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement Looking Ahead About This Report 83 Pack out/Fulfillment Group, Shenzhen 84 Developing Partnerships Delivering Peace of Mind Sustainability Governance >> The PCH Sustainability Team has influence across all our divisions. >> Sustainability reviews are conducted on product and packaging The Sustainability Team is involved at all stages of the business: across PCH platforms in the U.S. and China, including new project product development, supplier selection, supplier development, proposals. packaging and distribution. The Team is heavily influential in the >> The Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and Senior areas of Employee Health and Safety (EHS), including compliance, Leadership Team review all programs. workforce engagement, resource efficiency and safe handling of >> The PCH Audit Team conducts all China-based supplier qualification chemicals and other materials. audits for labor, environmental and chemical management >> PCH is governed by a Board of Directors who delegate governance practices. and responsibility for sustainability to the PCH Senior Leadership >> PCH-owned facilities have a Sustainability Committee with Labor, Team. EHS and Ethics subcommittees. >> The Chief Financial Officer (CFO) oversees sustainability initiatives >> Individual offices champion CSR initiatives across the organization, at PCH. including volunteering, diversity, internships and charitable giving. >> Each program is initiated within our China-based Sustainability >> Our suppliers are expected to adhere to our Supplier Code of Team, led by the Head of Sustainability. Details are reported to the Conduct. http://www.pchintl.com/sustainability/policies-and-codeCFO to ensure there is a viable business case for each project. of-conduct/supplier-code-conduct/ >> Programs focus on supplier network development, EHS, worker engagement, social initiatives and industry partnerships. Our Purpose About PCH Operations People Supply Network Product Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement Looking Ahead About This Report 85 Our Sustainability Progress in 2016 2017 Goals Dan Colon 86 Developing Partnerships Delivering Peace of Mind Looking Ahead In 2016 we celebrated 20 years in business. We work in a dynamic industry that is witnessing shorter production cycles, increased factory sophistication, greater demand for personalized products and non-tech industries such as fashion, beauty and entertainment entering the hardware market. We will continue to expand our growth opportunities by focusing on high-end design engineering and specialized manufacturing and distribution for our diverse customer base. As consumers ask more questions about the origins of products, PCH will continue to lead the industry in product transparency. This is the future of business. Our Purpose About PCH Operations People Supply Network Product Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement Looking Ahead About This Report 87 Our Sustainability Progress in 2016 More to do Ongoing Complete Status Goal from our 2015 Report 2016 Status Set long-term, cross-company sustainability goals. We are continuing to develop the Company’s long-term sustainability goals. Reexamine our supplier selection strategy to ready our business for future In 2016 we reexamined our supplier selection strategy and introduced the initial customer needs. evaluation stage to our already comprehensive sustainable supplier selection program. Appoint a company Health and Safety officer in our operations in China in In 2016 we appointed a Health and Safety officer in our office in China to monitor 2016. and implement health and safety best practices. Implement a global grievance mechanism as part of our Employee We are in the process of developing employee guidelines which are being rolled out Guidelines to be rolled out in 2016/2017. globally in 2017. Offer a full product Life Cycle Analysis program to our customers. In 2016 we began offering our customers a comprehensive full product Life Cycle Analysis (LCA). Sustainability team members attend all project kick off meetings to Partially achieved: EHS Team Members attend meetings for all projects that are understand customer sustainability requirements and supplier development deemed by the Project Manager to require an EHS inspection. opportunities. Formalize EHS guidelines for our supplier network in 2017. Guidelines are formalized via EHS audit, and KPIs are in place for high risk processes. 88 Developing Partnerships Delivering Peace of Mind 2017 Goals Expand energy management system and integrate further into PCH facilities management teams. Develop online energy management dashboard to lower cost and manage information faster. Continue to work on developing Continue to develop materials Accelerate rollout of Life Cycle Implement global grievance long-term sustainability goals for library, encouraging clients to Analysis tools. mechanism as part of our the Company. choose less harmful Employee Guidelines. chemicals/materials/processes. Develop and deploy Restricted Develop with our partner Little Assess sustainability issues Increase engagement with Subtances List (RSL) for Bird (NGO) a new onsite worker for supply base consigned by sustainability leaders in other customers who do not have grievance mechanism. our customers. industries, e.g., apparel, their own. cosmetics, etc. to incorporate best practices. Our Purpose About PCH Operations People Supply Network Product Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement Looking Ahead About This Report 89 Our Reporting Guidelines Disclosures Glossary of Terms GRI Index Wu Li 90 Developing Partnerships Delivering Peace of Mind About This Report This is our fifth annual Sustainability Report and covers the year 2016 at PCH. Our 2012 2015 Reports can be accessed on our website at http://www.pchintl.com/sustainability/sustainability-reports/. Our 2016 Report covers all PCH business units and entities but excludes Fab (e-commerce platform). The is not a report on the financial condition of the organization. Because we are a privately held company, we do not disclose certain financial information, capitalization structure of the organization or details of the share capital and executive board structure of the organization in this Report or in any public forum. Mutual non-disclosure agreements prevent us from naming our suppliers and customers in many cases. Many suppliers and customers do not wish to be named to protect trade secrets and maintain a competitive advantage. We respect this and are working with our partners towards a more transparent future. Our Purpose About PCH Operations People Supply Network Product Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement Looking Ahead About This Report 91 Our Our sustainability reporting follows industry and sustainability standards, including the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) Communication on Progress and the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines. This Report was written “in Reporting accordance” with GRI G4 guidelines at the Core level. In compiling this Report, we incorporated the principles for defining report content, namely: stakeholder inclusiveness, sustainability Guidelines context, materiality and completeness. We strive to ensure the principles for defining report quality are also met, namely: balance, comparability, accuracy, timeliness, clarity and reliability. We have not sought independent assurance of this Report. All data in this Report is based on the best possible methodologies currently available and is aligned with recognized standards. Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions data is subject to inherent uncertainties because of incomplete scientific knowledge used to determine emission factors and measurements. Our GHG emissions accounting and reporting are aligned with the GHG Protocol, and the emission factors we use are from publicly available sources such as the International Energy Agency (IEA). The reported energy usage is based on invoiced utility data, data reported by transport providers and suppliers, and data from real-time electricity meters. Monetary amounts are reported in U.S. dollars. Additional currency values are conversions based on the conversion rate on 31 December 2016, unless stated otherwise. 92 Developing Partnerships Delivering Peace of Mind Disclosures The information in this Report may contain forward-looking statements. Such statements reflect management’s current expectations. Although management believes such statements to be reasonable, no assurance can be given that such expectations will prove correct. Such statements are subject to risks and uncertainties, and such future events could differ materially from those set out in the forward-looking statements as a result of, among other factors, changes in economic, market or competitive conditions, success of business and operating initiatives, changes in the regulatory environment and other governmental actions and business risk management. Any forward-looking statement made in this Report relates only to events as of the date on which the statement is made. We undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statements to reflect new information, except as required by law. Our Purpose About PCH Operations People Supply Network Product Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement Looking Ahead About This Report 93 Glossary EHS: Employee Health and Safety, also referred to as Environment, Health and Safety in our industry Employee: Any person who has an employment contract with PCH, of Terms excluding supervised workforce Fab: An e-commerce company acquired by PCH in 2015 Facility: A factory building; one factory business might have multiple facilities Factory: A manufacturing, logistics, fulfillment or distribution business. Some factory businesses are a collection of facility buildings. B2B: Business-to-Business Factory office staff: All non-operator staff who work in B2C: Business-to-Consumer factory offices Chemicals: Substances and chemical compositions that are additives FDA: Food and Drug Administration to manufacturing process such as adhesives, paint, ink, cleaning Fluid seal design: Designing reliable fluid seals requires special agents and thinners. Included are chemicals that form part of the design considerations such as tolerance analyses, surface finish final product as well as sacrificial chemicals (those that are not part inspection requirements, and extensive reliability testing over multiple of the final product). component lots under various ambient conditions. Corporate staff: All non-operator staff who work in PCH offices IP: Intellectual Property CSR: Corporate Social Responsibility Key Supplier: The PCH core group of suppliers in which our operations Customer: A customer of PCH or of our suppliers team is involved in the day-to-day workings of the factory for largescale PCH projects Design for reliability: Architectural and detailed design choices that must be made to address specific reliability performance goals LCA: Life Cycle Analysis. This is the assessment of all environmental factors of a product’s life, from raw materials to end of use. Dispatch worker: Factory operators who work in PCH facilities who are hired and managed by a third-party dispatch agency Local: The relevant locality which is being discussed 94 Developing Partnerships Delivering Peace of Mind Mass production sustaining sourcing: Sourcing activities during QBR: Quarterly Business Review mass production to identify alternative supplier for critical Raw material: Any non-living matter, whether natural or mancomponents, reduce risk of material shortage, lower costs, or replace made, which combines to make customer products such as plastic low performance suppliers components, metals, leather and fabrics Material Safety Data Sheet (MSDS): A document that contains ROHS: Restriction of Hazardous Substances information on a material’s potential hazards (health, fire, reactivity and environmental) and how to work safely with the material RSL: Restricted Substance List, which includes hazardous chemicals and raw materials and possible alternatives Mechanism design: Mechanism design pertaining to assembly includes kinematic study work (the motion of parts in space), Senior leadership team: The team of PCH Senior Executives sensitivity analysis to parts and assembly variations, input/ designated by the Board of Directors to manage PCH business, output stroke and force analyses, friction management, and noise including but not limited to the Chief Executive Officer and Chief management Financial Officer. The team is also designated with responsibility of sustainability leadership at PCH. OECD: Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development Significant location of operations: Our significant operational OEL: Occupational Exposure Limit is a regulation that sets maximum headquarters are in southern China; our significant engineering exposure levels of chemicals and other hazardous materials in design operations are in San Francisco, California, U.S. and Shenzen, workplace air. China; and our corporate headquarters are in Cork, Ireland. Operator: Factory production staff (line operators, warehouse Supervised workers: All non-employees, workers hired through and logistics staff) hired by PCH or our suppliers on a full-time or dispatch agencies or contractors, consultants and interns supervised basis Supplier: A factory not owned by PCH that supplies products, goods PPE: Personal Protective Equipment such as protective clothing, or services to PCH and our customers helmets, goggles, or other garments or equipment designed to protect the wearer’s body from injury or infection Vendor: All PCH suppliers, including factories, sample part suppliers, office supplies, goods and services Production Ramp: The increase in factory production and labor required to meet manufacturing production demand Worker: An individual member of the workforce PSSR: Pre-Startup Safety Review is a tool that incorporates safety Workforce: All those who work for PCH including our employees and measures in pre-production design and processes. our supervised workers Our Purpose About PCH Operations People Supply Network Product Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement Looking Ahead About This Report 95 GRI Index PCH follows the GRI’s G4 guidelines, an internationally recognized standardized framework for disclosing economic, environmental and social performance. The 2016 Report qualifies at the in accordance “Core” level. Louise Huang / Kerrigan Hodnett 96 Developing Partnerships Delivering Peace of Mind General Standard Disclosures Location in Report/ Indicator Description Page Detail/Omission Explanation Strategy G4-1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker in the Message from Liam Casey 4 and Analysis organization about the relevance of sustainability to the organization and its strategy Organizational G4-3 Name of the Organization About This Report 91 Profile G4-4 Primary brands, products, and services What we do 14 G4-5 Location of the organization’s headquarters Where we Operate 32 G4-6 Countries of significant operations specifically relevant Where we Operate 32 to the sustainability topics covered in the Report G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form About This Report 91 G4-8 Markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors Where we Operate 32 served, and types of customers/beneficiaries) Our Purpose About PCH Operations People Supply Network Product Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement Looking Ahead About This Report 97 Location in Report/ Indicator Description Page Detail/Omission Explanation Organizational G4-9 Scale of the reporting organization PCH in 2016 10 Profile G4-10 Workforce About our People 42 G4-11 Percentage of total employees covered by collective 100% of factory employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements bargaining agreements. This is 42% of our global workforce. G4-12 Describe the organization’s supply chain Partnering with our Suppliers 60 G4-13 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding Message from Liam Casey 4 size, structure, or ownership PCH Enhanced Operations in China 34 G4-14 Whether and how the precautionary approach is The precautionary approach has not been addressed by the organization specifically addressed. G4-15 List externally developed economic, environmental and PCH is a signatory of the United Nations Global Compact social charters, principles, or other initiatives to which the https://www.unglobalcompact.org/ organization subscribes or which it endorses G4-16 List memberships of associations (such as industry PCH is a signatory of the United Nations Global Compact associations) and national or international advocacy https://www.unglobalcompact.org/ organizations in which the organization participates 98 Developing Partnerships Delivering Peace of Mind Location in Report/ Indicator Description Page Detail/Omission Explanation Identified G4-17 List all entities included in the organization’s consolidated About This Report 91 Material Aspects financial statements or equivalent documents and The 2016 Report covers all PCH business units but excludes and Boundaries whether any of these entities are not covered in this Fab (Fab was not fully integrated into our reporting process Report in 2016). G4-18 Explain the process for defining the Report content Our Reporting Guidelines 92 and the Aspect Boundaries and how the organization has implemented the Reporting Principles for Defining Report Content G4-19 List all the material Aspects identified in the process for Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement 81 defining Report content Materiality Matrix 82 All material aspects identified are in the materiality matrix. G4-20 For each material Aspect, report the Aspect Boundary Materiality Matrix 82 within the organization, entities it is material to and any specific limitation regarding the Aspect Boundary within the organization G4-21 For each material Aspect, report the Aspect Boundary Materiality Matrix 82 outside the organization, entities it is material to and any specific limitation regarding the Aspect Boundary outside the organization G4-22 Restatements of information provided in previous Reports No restatements and the reasons G4-23 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the No significant changes have been made from previous Scope and Aspect Boundaries reporting periods in the scope and aspect boundaries. Our Purpose About PCH Operations People Supply Network Product Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement Looking Ahead About This Report 99 Location in Report/ Indicator Description Page Detail/Omission Explanation Stakeholder G4-24 Provide a list of stakeholder groups engaged by How we Communicate with Stakeholders 83 Engagement the organization G4-25 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement 81 whom to engage G4-26 The organization’s approach to stakeholder engagement, Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement 81 including frequency of engagement by type and by stakeholder group, and an indication of whether any of the engagement was undertaken specifically as part of the Report preparation process G4-27 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through This is described in each section when discussing the stakeholder engagement, and how the organization has material aspect. responded to those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting. Report the stakeholder groups that raised each of the key topics and concerns Report Profile G4-28 Reporting period for information provided Calendar year 2016 unless otherwise noted G4-29 Date of most recent previous Report November 2016 G4-30 Reporting cycle Annual G4-31 Provide the contact point for questions regarding Alan Cuddihy, Head of Sustainability the Report or its contents sustainability@pchintl.com G4-32 Report the in accordance option the organization has Our Reporting Guidelines 92 chosen and the GRI Content Index for the chosen option GRI Index 96 Core G4-33 The organization’s policy and current practice with regard Our Reporting Guidelines 92 to seeking external assurance for the Report 100 Developing Partnerships Delivering Peace of Mind Location in Report/ Indicator Description Page Detail/Omission Explanation Governance G4-34 The governance structure of the organization, including Sustainability Governance 85 committees of the highest governance body. Identify any committees responsible for decision-making on economic, environmental and social impacts G4-35 The process for delegating authority for economic, Sustainability Governance 85 environmental and social topics from the highest governance body to senior executives and other employees G4-36 Report whether the organization has appointed an Sustainability Governance 85 executive-level position or positions with responsibility for economic, environmental and social topics, and whether post holders report directly to the highest governance body G4-46 Report the highest governance body’s role in reviewing We do not have a formalized risk management procedure the effectiveness of the organization’s risk management across the PCH group. processes for economic, environmental and social topics G4-48 Report the highest committee or position that formally Sustainability Governance 85 reviews and approves the organization’s sustainability report and ensures that all material Aspects are covered G4-52 Report the process for determining remuneration. All factory employees receive at least the local minimum Report whether remuneration consultants are involved wage as set by the Shenzhen government and are paid in determining remuneration and whether they are legal overtime rates. This is supplemented by statutory independent of management. Report any other social insurance payments and ancillary benefits. relationships which the remuneration consultants have with the organization Base salary for corporate employees is based on market value for the role in each particular location and includes consultation with remuneration consultants. All requisite local social insurance and tax payments are made by PCH. Our Purpose About PCH Operations People Supply Network Product Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement Looking Ahead About This Report 101 Location in Report/ Indicator Description Page Detail/Omission Explanation Ethics and G4-56 Describe the organization’s values, principles, standards People 41 Integrity and norms of behavior such as codes of conduct and Our PCH factories provide all employees with an codes of ethics employee manual, which guides the factory workforce on human rights and responsibilities, labor management procedures and safety procedures. Employee Guidelines under development and planned for release to all PCH corporate staff in 2017. Once finalized, the guidelines will be communicated to all corporate employees in Chinese and English. For details on our Supplier Code of Conduct, go to our website: http://www.pchintl.com/sustainability/policiesand-code-of-conduct/ G4-57 Report the internal and external mechanisms for seeking Our Little Bird Partnership 50 advice on ethical and lawful behavior, and matters Grievance Mechanisms 56 related to organizational integrity, such as helplines or Little Bird hotline is available to all factory staff. advice lines G4-58 Report the internal and external mechanisms for Our Little Bird Partnership 50 reporting concerns about unethical or unlawful behavior, Grievance Mechanisms 56 and matters related to organizational integrity, such as escalation through line management, whistleblowing mechanisms or hotlines 102 Developing Partnerships Delivering Peace of Mind Specific Standard Disclosures Location in Report/ Indicator Description Page Detail/Omission Explanation Category: Economic Material Aspect: G4-DMA Procurement Practices G4-EC9 Proportion of spending on local suppliers at significant Factories PCH Transacted With 64 locations of operation Local is defined as Guangdong province, China for this indicator Non GRI G4-DMA Material Aspect: Procurement PCH-1 Length of supplier relationships Factories PCH Transacted With 64 Practices Non GRI G4-DMA Material Aspect: Production PCH-2 Dispatch workers as percentage of factory workforce About our People 42 Ramp Annual average = 14.52% Annual high = 50% in August 2016 Annual low = 0% Category: Environmental Material Aspect: G4-DMA Materials and Chemicals PCH-3 Chemicals and materials management Managing Chemicals Safely 78 We utilize our chemical mapping tool and other assessments to safely manage chemical usage. Materials are evaluated according to customer needs, and chemical management indicators are assessed on a per-project basis. Our Purpose About PCH Operations People Supply Network Product Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement Looking Ahead About This Report 103 Location in Report/ Indicator Description Page Detail/Omission Explanation Material Aspect: G4-DMA Energy G4-EN3 Energy consumption within the organization Environmental Impact 38 Electricity use is for our PCH Innovation Hub in China, which includes office space, manufacturing, packaging, fulfillment and distribution facilities, a product design engineering and development lab, and an R&D center. Electricity also includes our San Francisco Innovation Hub (workshops and office). All other corporate offices are excluded. Material Aspect: G4-DMA Water G4-EN8 Total water withdrawal by source Environmental Impact 38 Water is used for domestic purposes only, is supplied by the local municipality in each jurisdiction and is not recycled by PCH after use. All data comes from bills and factory meters. 104 Developing Partnerships Delivering Peace of Mind Location in Report/ Indicator Description Page Detail/Omission Explanation Material Aspect: G4-DMA Emissions G4-EN16 Energy indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions Environmental Impact 38 (Scope 2) All emissions are a conversion calculation of our energy use (gas and electricity) (EN3). All calculations for 2016 reflect local conversion rates namely: • China: 0.918kg CO2/kWh (applicable to all facilities in Southern China), • U.S.: 0.69kg CO2/kWh (electricity) and 0.005302 metric tons CO2/therms (gas) At time of reporting, 2016 conversion rates were not published by national authorities. Emissions from purchased transport services are not available. Material Aspect: G4-DMA Effluents and Waste G4-EN23 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method Environmental Impact 38 Non-hazardous waste data is available for our U.S. operations only. All waste generated in our operations in China is owned by our customers and complies with the waste disposal rules of the Futian Free Trade Zone (a Chinese government designated industrial zone). Hazardous waste data is available for our operations in the U.S. and China. All hazardous waste generated by our facilities is disposed of by a licensed operator in that jurisdiction. Our Purpose About PCH Operations People Supply Network Product Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement Looking Ahead About This Report 105 Location in Report/ Indicator Description Page Detail/Omission Explanation Material Aspect: G4-DMA Products and Services G4-EN27 Extent of impact mitigation of environmental impacts Smarter Sustainable Packaging 74 of products and services Quantitative information is currently unavailable as environmental impact mitigation reviews are conducted on a case-by-case basis. Material Aspect: G4-DMA The privacy and security of our customers’ concepts, Compliance ideas and dreams are important to us. Our customers own the intellectual property (IP) of their products which we safeguard. We sign a mutual non-disclosure agreement with all customers and partners, and we have customer IP security plans in place at all of our factories. We have never had a complaint, breach or loss of customer data. G4-EN29, Total number of (and value of) complaints, legal actions, 0/$0 G4-SO7, significant fines, non-monetary sanctions for nonWe have never been fined or had any incidents of nonG4-SO8, compliance with environmental laws and regulations, compliance with regulations or laws in the jurisdictions in PR4, PR7, anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust and monopoly which we operate. PR8 practices or concerning the marketing, communication, advertising, promotion, sponsorship, data protection or G4-PR9 provision or use of products or services Material Aspect: G4-DMA Supplier Environmental, G4-EN32, Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using Our Supplier Audits 65 G4-LA14, environmental, labor and human rights criteria 100% of our China-based new suppliers were screened. Labor And Human Rights G4-HR10 Assessment G4-EN33, Significant actual and potential negative environmental, Audit Discoveries 66 G4-LA15, labor and human rights impacts in the supply chain and We consider remarks of “zero tolerance” and “immediate G4-HR11 actions taken action” in our audits as well as an overall score of less than 60 to be “significant actual and potential negative impacts’’ for purposes of GRI reporting. These outcomes will result in a failed audit. 106 Developing Partnerships Delivering Peace of Mind Location in Report/ Indicator Description Page Detail/Omission Explanation Material Aspect: G4-DMA No formal environmental grievance mechanism at PCH Environmental or in our factories Grievance Mechanisms G4-EN34 Number of grievances about environmental The information is currently unavailable. impacts filed, addressed and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms Category: Social Sub-category: Labor Practices and Decent Work Material Aspect: G4-DMA All of our workforce receive a written contract Employment and benefits in line with local regulations. G4-LA1 Total number and rates of new employee hires and Due to our workforce reorganization, 2016 data is not employee turnover by age group, gender and region comparable to 2015 data. G4-LA2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not Attendance allowance, position allowance and housing provided to temporary or part-time employees, by allowance are paid to full-time staff. significant location Although these allowances are not paid to dispatched contractors, these workers have comparatively increased hourly wages. G4-LA3 Return to work and retention rates after parental Parental Leave 43 leave, by gender Material G4-DMA Aspect: Labor/ Management G4-LA4 Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes, In the event of any change to our operations that would Relations including whether these are specified in collective significantly affect our factory employees, up to three agreements days’ notice is provided by the HR department. When any employee is no longer to be employed by our factories, they receive at least one-month notice from factory management, as per collective agreements. Our Purpose About PCH Operations People Supply Network Product Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement Looking Ahead About This Report 107 Location in Report/ Indicator Description Page Detail/Omission Explanation Material Aspect: G4-DMA Occupational Health and G4-LA5 Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint Worker Health and Safety Improvements at PCH in China 46 Safety management-worker health and safety committees that 17% of our factory workforce (8% of global workforce) help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programs G4-LA6 Type of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, Worker Health and Safety Improvements at PCH in China 46 lost days and absenteeism, and total number of workWe do not report absentee rate. related fatalities, by region and gender First aid injuries are not included. G4-LA7 Workers with high incidence or high risk of diseases Worker Health and Safety Improvements at PCH in China 46 related to their occupation Material Aspect: G4-DMA Training and Education G4-LA9 Average hours of training per year per employee by Career Enhancement Opportunities 48 gender and by employee category Information on training by gender not available Material Aspect: G4-DMA Diversity and Equal G4-LA12 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of Gender and Diversity 52 Opportunity employees per employee category according to gender, age group, minority group membership and other indicators of diversity 108 Developing Partnerships Delivering Peace of Mind Location in Report/ Indicator Description Page Detail/Omission Explanation Material G4-DMA Aspect: Equal Remuneration G4-LA13 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women Not reported due to incomplete data for Women to men by employee category, by significant locations and Men of operation Material G4-DMA Aspect: Labor And Human G4-LA16, Number of grievances about labor and human rights Grievances 56 Rights Practices G4-HR12 practices filed, addressed and resolved through formal Grievance grievance mechanisms Sub-category: Human Rights Material Aspect: G4-DMA PCH does not include human rights criteria in Investment investments or joint ventures. G4-HR2 Total hours of employee training on human rights policies PCH factory employees are trained on human rights or procedures concerning aspects of human rights that policies. We do not have any formal human rights are relevant to operations, including the percentage of policies in place for our corporate staff, nor do we provide employees trained formalized training regarding human rights. Material Aspect: G4-DMA Child, Forced or Compulsory G4-HR5, Operations and suppliers identified as having significant Audit Discoveries 66 Labor HR6 risk for incidents of child, forced or compulsory labor, and Supplier audits identify risk for incidents of child, forced measures taken to contribute to the effective abolition of or compulsory labor, and no suppliers failed audits in child labor 2016. Our Purpose About PCH Operations People Supply Network Product Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement Looking Ahead About This Report 109 Location in Report/ Indicator Description Page Detail/Omission Explanation Material Aspect: G4-DMA Security Practices G4-HR7 Percentage of security personnel trained in the All security personnel in our factories receive training in organization’s human rights policies or procedures that corporate social responsibility. In facilities that we are relevant to operations manage for our suppliers, PCH is involved in setting operational and security procedures to ensure compliance with human rights requirements and social accountability international (SA8000) standards. Management of those facilities directly oversees security staff at those locations. Material Aspect: G4-DMA Assessment G4-HR9 Total number and percentage of operations that We have not conducted a formal human rights review on have been subject to human rights reviews or our supply network, but we can generally comment that impact assessments the greatest risk of human rights abuse lies in the supplier network. Sub-category: Society Material Aspect: G4-DMA We have conducted preliminary risk assessments for Anti-Corruption corrupt practices and determined that the risk is low. G4-SO3 Total number and percentage of operations assessed Audited suppliers are not assessed for corruption as part for risks related to corruption of their audit. G4-SO4 Communication and training on anti-corruption policies We do not have any formal policies in place for and procedures PCH corporate staff like we do in our factories, nor do we provide formal training on anti-corruption, anti-competitive behavior, insider trading or conflict of interest. G4-SO5 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken 0 G4-SO6 Total value of political contributions by country PCH made no political contributions during 2016. and recipient/beneficiary 110 Developing Partnerships Delivering Peace of Mind Location in Report/ Indicator Description Page Detail/Omission Explanation Material G4-DMA We have not conducted a formal assessment of our impacts on society, but we can generally comment Aspect: Supplier that the greatest impact is in China where we have our Assessment largest operations. for Impacts on Society G4-S09 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using The PCH audit does not cover impacts on society. criteria for impacts on society Sub-category: Product Responsibility Material Aspect: G4-DMA Product and G4-PR3 Type of product and service information required by For product labeling such as European Conformity (CE), Service Labeling the organization’s procedures for product and service U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) or labeling information and labeling, and percentage of significant approval for a particular market, our customers instruct product and service categories subject to such us on their labeling requirements. information requirements G4-PR5 Results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction Our Diverse Customer Base 28 No formal customer surveys were carried out in 2016. Material Aspect: G4-DMA Marketing G4-PR6 Sale of banned or disputed products We have never brought a product to market that is Communications banned in the market in which it is for sale. Our Purpose About PCH Operations People Supply Network Product Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement Looking Ahead About This Report 111 Jill Pierse / Claudia Ceniceros / Nick Cruz / Christian Schluender 112 Developing Partnerships Delivering Peace of Mind © copyright NORTH AMERICA EUROPE ASIA PCH PCH PCH PCH Innovation Hub PCH Innovation Hub Heritage Business Park Bessboro Road 9A, 9/F, Zhong Tian Yuan Logistics Centre 135 Mississippi Street Blackrock, Cork No 8, Tao Hua Road San Francisco, CA Ireland Futian Free Trade Zone, Shenzhen 94107 Guanggdong USA China @pchintl.com
