Sto SE & Co. KGaA | 2016 Annual Report Sto at a glance Sto Group 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Changes in % 16/15 Turnover 1,106.8 1,141.7 1,166.0 1,208.7 1,216.6 1,230.7 1.2 % Germany 529.4 524.7 534.7 549.2 535.4 548.7 2.5 % Non-Germany 577.4 617.0 631.3 659.5 681.2 682.0 0.1 % Investments (not including financial assets) 27.6 36.3 32.4 39.1 35.8 37.5 4.8 % Depreciation/amortisation (without financial assets) 29.7 25.9 29.0 29.9 31.0 32.7 5.5 % EBITDA 134.2 121.1 128.9 126.9 112.6 103.0 –8.5 % EBIT 104.5 95.3 99.9 97.0 81.5 70.3 –13.7 % EBT 103.5 94.6 99.0 96.2 81.2 68.1 –16.1 % EAT (earnings after taxes) 70.3 65.4 68.4 66.0 55.7 45.7 –18.0 % Earnings per limited ordinary share (EUR) 10.89 10.11 10.68 10.29 8.71 7.14 –18.0 % Earnings per limited preference share (EUR) 10.95 10.17 10.74 10.35 8.77 7.20 –17.9 % Cash flow from current operating activities 92.7 71.8 80.9 93.9 78.9 95.4 20.9 % per share (EUR) 14.43 11.18 12.60 14.61 12.28 14.85 20.9 % Total assets 669.7 684.2 703.6 751.3 641.9 714.2 11.3 % Equity capital 426.0 448.8 481.4 506.5 404.7 425.2 5.1 % in % of total assets 63.6 65.6 68.4 67.4 63.0 59.5 Employees (year end) 4,695 4,689 4,791 4,979 5,032 5,251 4.4 % of which in Germany 2,495 2,482 2,586 2,623 2,652 2,895 9.2 % of which non-Germany 2,200 2,207 2,205 2,356 2,380 2,356 –1.0 % Sto SE & Co. KGaA 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016* Changes in % 16/15 Turnover 586.8 587.9 589.1 604.2 598.8 610.7 2.0 % Export ratio in % 17.5 17.4 16.8 17.4 18.7 20.5 Investments in property, plant, and equipment, and intangible assets 11.9 17.3 12.3 11.6 20.1 15.5 –22.9 % in financial assets 16.3 3.9 6.1 6.4 9.6 14.7 53.1 % Depreciation/amortisation (without financial assets) 12.2 12.2 12.8 13.4 13.4 12.7 –5.2 % Earnings before income taxes** 83.3 78.2 88.8 79.1 64.6 56.5 –12.5 % Net profit for the year 65.4 62.9 71.7 62.8 48.2 45.4 –5.8 % Cash flow from current operating activities*** 35.1 41.9 35.6 –15.0 % Dividend per limited ordinary share (EUR) 0.25/4.56 0.25/4.56 0.25/4.56 0.25/25.14 0.25/4.56 0.25/3.00 per limited preference share (EUR) 0.31/4.56 0.31/4.56 0.31/4.56 0.31/25.14 0.31/4.56 0.31/3.00 Total assets 492.0 497.2 526.0 560.6 446.0 475.2 6.6 % Equity capital 329.5 361.4 402.0 433.9 318.7 333.1 4.5 % in % of total assets 67.0 72.7 76.4 77.4 71.5 70.1 Employees (year end) 2,057 2,100 2,118 2,134 2,148 2,133 –0.7 % (figures in EUR million) * From 2016 in accordance with BilRUG (Accounting Directive Implementation Act) ** Until 2015 earnings on ordinary activities *** Cash flow was adapted from 2014 to conform with the new DRS 21 (German accounting standard) Rounding of amounts may lead to minor deviations in totals and in the calculation of percentages in this report. Sto SE & Co. KGaA | 2016 Annual Report Foreword2 D. Events after the reporting period 46 The Sto brand 6 E. Risks and opportunities report 46 Report of the Supervisory Board 12 F. Outlook report 55 Corporate Governance Report 17 The Sto share  60 Management Report Sustainability and for the Sto Group (IFRS) 22 Corporate Social Responsibility 64 The fiscal year at a glance 23 Consolidated annual financial A. Group fundamentals 23 statements of the Sto Group (IFRS) 79 B. Financial report 28 Statement of profit and loss 80 Overall economic and industrial sectorStatement of other related general conditions in 2016 30 comprehensive income 81 Business performance and Statement of financial situation 82 development of turnover 31 Statement of changes in equity 84 Earnings situation 33 Cash flow statement 86 Financial situation 35 Notes 87 Asset situation 37 Audit certificate 166 C. Other performance indicators 38 Responsibility statement Employees 38 by the legal representatives 167 Research and development 41 Financial calendar 2017 168 Production and procurement 43 For reasons of simplification, the terms ‘colleague’ and ‘employee’ shall be used to refer to both female and male colleagues and employees in this Annual Report. Picture caption for title page: The design and preservation of valuable and sustainable buildings has been the goal of Sto SE & Co. KGaA for many years. Sto is even living up to its claim to “Building with conscience.” at its own company premises in Stühlingen, where the new reception and office building at headquarters has been built in line with zero-energy standards. Its innovative energy concept is based on the proviso of minimising energy consumption through passive and active measures, and optimising the energy supply through efficient technology. Major contributors to this are the photovoltaic system on the roof of the office wing, with an annual output of 26,400 kilowatt hours, plus a StoVentec ARTline Invisible rainscreen cladding facade system featuring photovoltaic panels with non-visible fixing (annual output: 15,800 kilowatt hours) on the south side. The many other Sto products and systems that have been installed, from acoustic elements to the natural stone floor, allow both parts of the building to simultaneously function as an appealing showcase for the company’s extensive range. At the inauguration in September 2016, the German Sustainable Building Council (DGNB) honoured this exemplary building with its platinum seal of quality. Sto SE & Co. KGaA | Foreword Foreword positive first-time consolidation effects, however: a total of EUR 38.1 million of the Group turnover was attributable to the new additions of Ströher and Hesselberg Bygg. Adjusted for these effects as well as currency translation effects, which had a negative impact of EUR 9.1 million, turnover across the Group decreased by 1.2 % compared with 2015. Abroad, our subsidiaries in China, Switzerland, France, and Italy in particular recorded weaker development than had been forecast. However, the main cause of the declines experienced in the Group was undoubtedly the German market for external wall insulation systems. In this area, demand continued to suffer significantly in the wake of controversial media reports. The debate on the use of thermal insulation for buildings, Rainer Hüttenberger, Spokesman of the Executive Board which has been highly emotionally charged in some cases, is causing sustained uncertainty Dear Shareholders, among customers – and is increasingly affecting not only private building owners, but also other 2016 was a difficult year for the Sto Group target groups such as architects and housing to navigate, and the obstacles presented by a companies. In spite of a comprehensive package challenging business environment resulted in of measures put together early on with the aim the company developing significantly below of combating these effects, our market-leading expectations, particularly from the midpoint of position means that we are particularly heavily the year onwards. Although we had expected a affected by declines in sales. challenging situation ahead of us, the extent of Not only are we using targeted information the declines we experienced – especially in the that we hope will remove emotion from the area of facade systems – was worse than we debate and assuage doubts through objechad anticipated, requiring us to revise down our tive arguments, we are also meeting people’s targets in November. reservations head-on with a quality-focused We revised our consolidated turnover foreoffensive that will bring the high-quality nature cast of EUR 1,277 million down to EUR 1,217 of our products more firmly to the forefront. million, and our EBIT forecast from an original We have also expanded our product range in a EUR 80 million to EUR 90 million range down way that is specifically aimed at intercepting the to between EUR 52 million and EUR 62 million. declines. These efforts have focused on areas The excellent weather conditions that prevailed such as facade systems with improved properduring the final weeks of the year ultimately ties relating to ecology, fire protection, energy resulted in these values being exceeded, alefficiency, and recyclability. Products from the lowing us to achieve turnover of EUR 1,230.7 newly incorporated Ströher and Hesselberg million and an EBIT operating result of EUR 70.3 Bygg Groups are also adding to our range. million. The growth in turnover compared with Sto systems have received an overwhelmingly the previous year was exclusively the result of positive response on the market, as evidenced 2 Foreword | Sto SE & Co. KGaA by the numerous awards and prizes they have took over in mid-2016, will allow us to expand received. One example is the recyclable Stoour range of floor coatings. The company is one Systain R facade system, which is setting new of the leading forces in the market in this area. standards in the area of building envelopes and 2016 also saw us reshape the Executive received the “Special Award” as part of the Board of STO Management SE. Following the Architecture + Construction Innovation Prize April 2016 announcement by Gerd Stotmeister, awarded annually at the world-leading trade long-standing Chief Technology Officer and fair BAU. This system uses no adhesive at all Deputy Chief Executive Officer, of his intention and is instead installed with hook-and-loop to step down at the end of the year, Jan Nissen fasteners. It can also be fully dismantled and was appointed as his successor soon afterwards. almost every element is recyclable. This gave us sufficient time to put the necessary A key focus of our New Balance programme, preparations in place. An employee of Sto since to which we have been devoting significant 1993, Jan Nissen has extensive experience in efforts over the year under review, is to consolithe company and most recently held the post of date those product groups with global potential Head of Materials Management within the Sto for growth and develop initiatives targeted Group. Since the change, the Executive Board of towards growth, particularly on the German the personally liable partner STO Management market. The second focus is on systematically SE now includes no members of the Stotmeister improving the efficiency of our core processes family. Despite this, Sto remains a medium-sized, and structures. Striking the right balance reliable, family-run company. between these key pillars of our activities will The Sto brand has always been and remains allow us to boost profitability and bring the a significant factor in helping our national and Group back onto a healthy earnings track. We international business activities stand out and expect the 2017 fiscal year to show the first succeed. Reflecting its significance, in recent effects of the improvements in earnings. years we have refined our core values to ensure During the year under review, integrating our they remain in tune with contemporary tastes, new acquisitions was also high on the agenda. and have worked on the brand’s visual appearAcquiring a majority shareholding in the Ströher ance. The section of this report entitled “The Group has allowed us to strengthen our position Sto brand” on the next few pages presents the on the facade market with respect to the prodresults of our efforts. ucts we offer, and expand our range in specific One thing that is already clear is that Sto’s reareas. Ströher brick slips open up a whole host configured management team will once again be of design possibilities in external wall insulation faced with significant challenges in 2017. One of systems as well as rainscreen cladding facade these comes in the form of the significant levels systems. The takeover of Ströher also represents of uncertainty affecting the global economy due an excellent step in the direction of our strategic to a whole host of factors: political developobjectives. Ströher’s culture of innovation and ments in countries including the USA and Turkey, expertise in surfaces, for example, perfectly the ongoing war in Syria, refugee-related issues, complement our vision of becoming the leader and worldwide concerns about terrorism. In Euin technology. Additionally, Ströher is helping us rope, elections with the potential to make large pursue our aim of expanding our project busiwaves are taking place or have already taken ness in the area of facades and penetrating the place in France, the Netherlands, and Germany. market using a two-tiered approach to distriNot only that, but the consequences of the Brexit bution. The Hesselberg Bygg Group, which Sto vote in the United Kingdom also remain unclear 3 Sto SE & Co. KGaA | Foreword and the German economy, which focuses a strong capacity for innovation. We set the heavily on exports, could suffer as a result of the pace of technology in the industrial sector and growing moves in favour of protectionism seen want to reinforce this position over the long in several countries. term. For reasons including our wide sales base Another challenge is the need to prepare ourand our dedicated, highly qualified workforce, selves for the fact that the reticence expressed we are in the best possible position to write on the German EWIS market may not be merely more chapters in the Sto Group’s success story a temporary phenomenon. We have responded over the coming years. appropriately to this, laid the necessary founAs usual, we want to include our sharedations that will enable us to compensate for holders in our income. At the Annual General declines, and believe firmly that energy-related Meeting on 14 June 2017, the personally liable facade insulation continuous to hold significant partner STO Management SE will propose for potential for sales. Even the targets that were its shareholders a basic dividend of EUR 0.31 agreed as binding for the first time at the United per limited preference share and EUR 0.25 per Nations Climate Change Conference in Paris limited ordinary share as well as a bonus of are testament to this. Without boosting energy EUR 3.00 for each limited preference and limefficiency in buildings, they will be impossible to ited ordinary share, based on the 2016 profit of achieve. The large stock of older, non-energy-­ the Sto SE & Co. KGaA parent company. This efficient buildings around the world is another would result in a dividend yield per preference undeniable argument in favour of facade share of 3.6 % based on the 2016 closing price insulation. Despite this, it is not possible for us of EUR 93.04. to estimate when the tide might turn – partly The New Balance programme, the challengbecause there is as yet only a limited amount ing general conditions presented both on a of political support for putting the required domestic level and abroad, and all the other measures in place. Over the course of 2017, we tasks that lie ahead of us mean that 2017 will expect to see a slight rise in business volume in once again demand an exceptional level of the area of facades, due in no small part to our commitment from the entire Sto workforce. product diversification and new acquisitions. Our highly qualified team of experts is one of Throughout the Group as a whole, we the company’s strongest assets and a major believe that 2017 will bring a 3 % growth in factor in setting ourselves apart from the turnover to around EUR 1,268 million and an competition. On behalf of the entire Executive EBIT operating result of between EUR 80 milBoard, I would like to take this opportunity to lion and EUR 90 million. Earnings before taxes express my sincere thanks to our employees for (EBT) are likely to fall between EUR 78 million their dedication during recent years and this and EUR 88 million, and our current expectacurrent year alike. tion is that return on sales will rise to between 6.2 % and 6.9 %. As one of the leading providers of high-­ quality facade systems and coatings, our future prospects remain healthy. This is especially due to the fact that we are building on a foundaRainer Hüttenberger tion of winning success factors: Sto boasts an Spokesman of the Executive Board of STO extensive, first-class range of products, an exManagement SE as the personally liable partner cellent position on the international stage, and of Sto SE & Co. KGaA 4 Foreword | Sto SE & Co. KGaA 5 Sto SE & Co. KGaA | The Sto brand The Sto brand An evolved corporate design are almost 15 years old. In the meantime, Sto renews its corporate design and hence the company has grown into an international creates a balance between its origins and its Group and has significantly expanded its future. A consistent appearance that reflects portfolio. This has had a major impact on the the brand values of a company provides company’s internal and external communicaguidance to its customers and strengthens tion. Especially in the digital but also in other the identification of the employees with the areas, modes of communication and requirecompany. ments have developed that necessitate an Based on the Hidden Champions study adaptation of the corporate design (CD). After of a popular German economic journal as all, it’s the corporate identity and corporate well as due to major changes in the compadesign that help build a context in which Sto ny’s environments in the past few years, Sto employees and customers can interact in a decided to review its brand strategy, brand close, personal, and trustful manner. values, and corporate design. Despite all Sto has ample experience in brand dechanges – Sto’s mission has been stable for velopment: Already in 1962, the company Bewusst bauen. 1962 – 1972 1972 – 1988 1988 – 2003 2003 – 2016 2017 The development of the Sto logo years and will remain unchanged: contributpresented itself with the wordmark “sto”. In from 1962 to 2017. ing to “maintaining the value and aesthetic 1972, the first comprehensive CD was introappeal of buildings”. This mission is reflected duced which was geared towards craftsmen in the brand claim “Building with conscience.” and which was rather colourful. Along with which the company has been using since the the company’s conversion into a limited com1980ies. On this basis, a global review was pany in 1988, the CD underwent a change as launched in 2012 to determine both externally well. It now had a clear concept, less colour and internally: What does Sto stand for? The and a refined logo which meant an increase result was clear. Various cultures confirmed of acceptance among architects. In 2003, the four characteristic values of the company: corporate design was further developed and experienced, performing, advanced and close still applies today. Such renovation cycles are to its customers. These are all values that rather typical as companies and their envionly a family-run business with direct sales ronments constantly undergo change. New and distribution could embody. This canon of design elements due to expanded product values forms the basis for all activities of the lines, changed structures and new means of company worldwide. It is just as crucial for communication have an influence on the CD addressing the customers as it is for internal over the years. management and product development. On An international team of communication the basis of these values the appearance of experts at Sto identified major elements in the long-established company needs to be the former appearance of the company as the revived as the guidelines on brand appearance visual “DNA of Sto”. 6 The Sto brand | Sto SE & Co. KGaA 1) large white spaces that coin buildings, vehicles, and brochures, 2) the word and figurative mark, Bewusst bauen. 3) the brand claim “Building with conscience.”, Michael Mustermann Sto SE & Co. KGaA Bewusst bauen. Qualifikation Ehrenbachstraße 1 79780 Stühlingen Funktion Deutschland Funktion Telefon +49 7744 57-1234 Es schreibt Ihnen / Telefax +49 7744 57-2234 Mobil +49 171 2345678 Unser Zeichen m.mustermann@sto.com Maxima Musterfrauwww.sto.de Mustermann /MM Sto SE & Co. KGaA / Postfach/ 79778 Stühlingen Telefon /Telefax /E-Mail: +49 0000 00-0000 Musterﬁrma GmbH +49 0000 00-0000 Max Mustermann 4) the two brand colours: yellow for Sto and m.musterfrau_musterMusterstraße 123 mann@sto.com 12345 Musterstadt Ihr Zeichen / zusätzliche Zeile Nachricht vom: MM zusätzliche Zeile 00.00.0000 Datum: 00.00.0000 Betreff red for StoCretec Sehr geehrter Herr Mustermann, Ciae aut quam eium adigentio vellore cor milictiunt eost, et mos aniet mos as pernam rae sum endi duntur abo. Nem sae non cume dolorup icaborem atiuriandunt utentem everumq uiatiusapit harum iduciam fugitatem. As acest, excea et eos moluptatet es con nihitis ciduciis dundament occullitas aci alicidus susam dellantur sum faccum liquias magnisciet, ullaute pa volor sam qui corepro quatur res cone con commolu ptatemp Sto SE & Co. KGaA Ehrenbachstraße 1 79780 Stühlingen Deutschland editat alis magnimi, odit ad eaque nis soluptasiti utem asimodi oriberibus qui te niend5) the special type of architectural photograTelefon +49 7744 57-0 aeste volupiet quatur moluptas ent erum num resciis modis aceperum reri ipsam et Telefax +49 7744 57-2178 odite et archilitem eumet rersperibus rest pelent aliquat. infoservice@sto.com www.sto.de As acest, excea et eos moluptatet es con nihitis ciduciis dundament occullitas aci aliciSitz der Gesellschaft: dus susam dellantur sum faccum liquias magnisciet, ullaute pa volor sam qui corepro 79780 Stühlingen quatur res cone con commolu ptatemp editat alis magnimi, odit ad eaque nis soluptaDeutschland Handelsregister: siti utem asimodi oriberibus qui te niendaeste volupiet quatur moluptas ent erum num Amtsgericht Freiburg i. Br. resciis modis aceperum reri ipsam et odite et archilitem eumet rersperibus rest pelent HRB 711236 aliquat. Aufsichtsratsvorsitzender: Dr. Max-Burkhard Zwosta phy, Xersperferum consed et as aditas dicium consedi doluptat quatas reiunt quiam volupta Persönlich haftende inis recabor accullu ptatur? Otatqua temperit eaque con et facearc iendiae nisquametur Gesellschafterin: FrutigerNext Bold/Regular, Adresse und persönl. Angaben (ohne Fettung) unter Logo STO Management SE Sitz der Gesellschaft: 79780 Stühlingen Deutschland Mit freundlichen Grüßen Handelsregister: Amtsgericht Freiburg i. Br. Sto SE & Co. KGaA HRB 709900 Vorstand: i. A. Rainer Hüttenberger 6) and the yellow pail. (Sprecher des Vorstands) Maxima Musterfrau Michael Keller Geschäftsfeld Muster Jan Nissen Rolf Wöhrle Aufsichtsratsvorsitzender: Jochen Stotmeister Seite 1/2 StoTherm Fassade Wärmedämm-Verbundsysteme Unsere WärmedämmVerbundsysteme übernehmen eine Schlüsselrolle im bewussten, nachhaltigen Bauen. Durch innovative Technologien entstehen individuelle Fassaden, die in Zeiten des Klimawandels nicht nur effektiv Energie einsparen. The new CD now turns the bar of the logo into a functional element that is used in various forms, e.g. as navigational aid or as information stripe in brochures, presentations, and labels. Photography continues to have an emphasis on architecture and works more with graphically concise close-ups. The brand flags or banners, it will also be used indeThe new corporate design coins claim “Building with conscience.” will be more pendently. Pictograms that are already used on the entire appearance of Sto. It is present. In the future, it will be placed directly product labels today, will be more widely used easy to apply, ensures uniformity next to the logo. In certain situations, e.g. on in communication to provide guidance to the on the one hand, and offers greater customers. They refer to the core competencies regional flexibility on the other. of Sto and StoCretec: the best solutions for facades, interior walls, acoustic systems, floor coatings, concrete repair, and the protection of buildings. The new appearance is more spacious and modern without seeming trendy. What’s particularly important, is the enhanced functionality: The new CD is easy to use, internationally applicable, ensures consistency and offers greater regional flexibility at the same time. This is compliant with Sto’s constitution from 2005. It states that “communication must follow a system” and that the brand with its marks must have “long-term validity”. In fact, the new CD develops existing strengths even further in an evolutionary way. The old and the new forms can even coexist. Hence, the stock of communication material can still be used and will be replaced by new material step by step starting in June 2017. The change-over is to be completed by the end of In certain cases the claim may be displayed separately 2019. Until then, the company will be working from the logo. on further major topics, e.g. developing a 7 Sto SE & Co. KGaA | The Sto brand Sto-specific corporate design for the world of The new cover digital media, for international market launch Costruire con coscienza. page concept campaigns as well as strengthening internal for brochures Pitture per Interni awareness of the brand. interni Sto Aomnis moditais alit esto in consenis doluptium non enis pliatia con ets quos aut quias alitiis mamgni as can by applied At Sto, brand management and CD develinternationally. inveribus ma volorror aut lam, iligenditi sit eve ruqui con rem volemnt mquam asi consedis. Atia urumas ipsa abo. Ro verumest faccuptiisim fugiae equias opment are evolutionary processes. The current et quidelest. status indicates a direction, but the development is by no means completed. The renewal process of the appearance continues: The corporate design will be applied to digital design, different visual imagery will be developed, and rules will be established for business partners, e.g. in those countries where Sto does not have its own sales organisation. With that in mind, the appearance of the Sto brand is not self-serving but an indispensable strategic tool for setting the company apart from its competitors. The goal is to keep the brand engaging and true to its tradition so that the phrase “Typically Sto!” continues to stand for more than just a yellow pail to both employees and customers. 8 The Sto brand | Sto SE & Co. KGaA The built brand This makes it a total of six The brand claim “Building with conscience.” is buildings that Michael Wilford both its own benchmark and an obligation for has designed for Sto in StühSto. This is why the company has been active in lingen together with Manuel the building culture for decades and has been Schupp. It all began in 1993 developing its own architecture into a built corwith a master plan that looked porate culture for more than 20 years. This also far ahead into the future and excites the approx. 6,000 visitors who come to which made use of an urban Sto’s headquarters in Stühlingen/Weizen every development approach to deyear to learn more about the development and velop Sto’s headquarters step production of pioneering building products. by step. Instead of a rigid conThe newest buildings at Sto’s headquarters struction grid, Wilford defined set benchmarks in corporate architecture and structuring axes across the energy efficiency. Both buildings are designed premises along which future as zero-energy houses and were awarded a buildings were to be placed platinum certificate by the German Sustainable and the entire area would be Building Council (DGNB). The impressive reunited to form an ensemble. ception and office building is a yellow rotunda The architectural visions do (see cover page). Its oval shape clearly indicates not aim for homogeneity. There is no uniform, Michael Wilford’s master plan from which brand element inspired the architects: reproducible “Sto style”. Instead, building is 1993. the typical, yellow Sto pail. More than 6.5 regarded as a process that is open for impulses million of these pails are filled with paints and from the architects. This means: Sto follows renders in Stühlingen every year and are sent the architecture, not the other way around. to construction sites all over the world. An The buildings at Sto are always an expression elongated building with a shiny black photovolof their times of origin, which reflect the develtaic facade is connected to this hub located at opment of the company and the technological the centre of the company premises. The open options at that time. In 1997, the communioffice space offers workstations for around 150 cations building (also known as “K building”) employees. was completed. Its ship-like shape stands for the company’s venturing into international markets. It displays a cross-section of Sto’s product portfolio: brilliant, white facade render, a durable external wall insulation system as well as innovative design techniques in the interior. The design of the corporate headquarters according to the master plan began with the construction of the K building which was finished in 1997. 9 Sto SE & Co. KGaA | The Sto brand In 2003, the “just-in-time plant” was built, including a 54-m-high silo tower. The limited available space is fully exploited thanks to cleverly organised production processes. And again, Sto uses a new building as a model building project: recycled glass granulate boards make up the facade. The conversion of two historic lime kilns into a visitor centre sets the scene for the origins of our company and links them with the current product range of Sto. The extension of the logistics centre with its open-space office concepts incorporates surfaces from the company’s own limestone quarries as well as current acoustic systems. And finally the two current zero-energy buildings: Apart from a ventilated rainscreen cladding photovoltaic facade and the curved The Factory 2003 also showcased new developments render facade of the reception building, in the product portfolio: boards made of recycled glass the buildings also feature individually milled form the elongated facade. Verolith boards, innovative interior and exterior A shining entrance: The glossy black office building with its impressive glass photovoltaic facade leads the visitors to the yellow reception building at the centre of the premises. 10 The Sto brand | Sto SE & Co. KGaA coatings, acoustic systems, and floor coatings. jects is of great importance. Since Sto’s building Hence, Sto impresses with its vast product portculture – and hence Sto’s corporate culture is folio which has grown over the years. This is a not supposed to be a rigid dogma, but rather special type of evolution; every building is more a permanent, innovative and creative process, advanced than the previous one and incorSto is thankful for all the experience and ideas porates the newest product systems from Sto that it acquires through the cooperation with at the time of their construction. This is also architects and planners either during its own visible evidence of Sto’s expertise and history. construction projects or as service provider. The Sto brand does not follow a single architectural style and formal uniformity, it follows the intention of creating buildings of the highest quality in terms of ecological, architectural and technological aspects combined with quality craftsmanship. And this is exactly what Sto means by “Building with conscience.” This is also why architecture plays such an integral part in the value-based brand appearance of Sto: close, experienced, performing, and advanced. The generous staircases in the new reception building provide a spatial experience across four levels up to the roof terrace. Building culture, however, does not only manifest at headquarters, but also at many Sto locations in Germany and across the world. With only a few graphic attributes of the Sto brand, the regional and international subsidiaries display the highest degree of independence. Their individual architecture is developed together with architects from the respective regions. This approach is highly beneficial to both Sto and its subsidiaries: The knowledge the company has gained working with different architects during these sustainable building pro11 Sto SE & Co. KGaA | Report of the Supervisory Board Report of the Supervisory Board Members of the Supervisory Board Fritz Stotmeister, Öhningen/Germany | Honorary Chairman Dr. Max-Burkhard Zwosta, Wittnau/Germany, Chartered accountant and tax consultant | Chairman Holger Michel*, Dresden/Germany, Trade union secretary IG BCE (until 29 February 2016), retired (since 1 March 2016) | Deputy Chairman Dr Max-Burkhard Zwosta, Chairman Gertrud Eisele, Peter Zürn, Chairperson of the Employee Rottweil/Germany, Publisher Osterburken/Germany, Representative Council for Member of the Management the Baden-Württemberg sales Prof. Dr.-Ing. of the Würth Group region of Sto SE & Co. KGaA Klaus Sedlbauer, Rottach-Egern/Germany, Uwe Bruchmüller*, Barbara Meister*, Chair of Building Physics at the Thalheim/Germany, Head Blumberg/Germany, Deputy Technical University of Munich of Business Development Chairperson of the Group and Head of the Fraunhofer for Water Technologies, Employee Representative Institute for Building Physics Veolia Water Technologies Council and Chairperson of Deutschland GmbH the Weizen Employee RepreCharles Stettler, sentative Council, Sto SE & Co. Stäfa/Switzerland, banker/ Wolfgang Dell*, KGaA freelance member of the Hattersheim/Germany, ResponAdministrative Board sible for Installation EngineerJan Nissen*, ing Maintenance, Sto SE & Co. (until 31 December 2016) Jochen Stotmeister, KGaA Trossingen/Germany, Head of Grafenhausen/Germany, Materials Management within Managing Director of StotLothar Hinz*, the Sto Group (until 31 Demeister Beteiligungs GmbH Reutlingen/Germany, Chaircember 2016), Chief Technolperson of the Group Employee ogy Officer at STO ManageRepresentative Council and ment SE (from 1 January 2017) * Employee representatives 12 Report of the Supervisory Board | Sto SE & Co. KGaA Dear Shareholders, absence. These included consultations about personnel changes. The Supervisory Board of Sto SE & Co. KGaA The topics that were regularly discussed at monitored, audited, and advised the personeach of the ordinary meetings included ecoally liable partner STO Management SE in the nomic and business developments; financial, management of the company in the 2016 fiscal investment, and personnel planning; operayear. It faithfully fulfilled the duties awarded to tional targets; and the effectiveness of the risk it according to law, regulations, the Corporate management strategies. The New Balance proGovernance Code, and rules of procedure, and gramme, designed to boost profitability within is assured of the lawfulness and expediency of the Sto Group, was also a continuous subject of the Management Board of the personally liable consultation. partner STO Management SE. At the Supervisory Board Meeting held on The personally liable partner STO Manage22 April 2016 in the presence of the auditor, ment SE briefed the Supervisory Board on a the Supervisory Board thoroughly reviewed the regular, timely, and comprehensive basis on all 2015 annual financial statement of Sto SE & issues relating to Sto SE & Co. KGaA – parCo. KGaA and the 2015 consolidated annual ticularly those relating to planning – as well statement of Sto SE & Co. KGaA, plus the as on operational business trends and the dependent company report in accordance with Group’s situation, including its risk situation, Section 312 ff. of the German Companies Act risk management, and compliance. Departures (AktG). Following a thorough consultation and of business developments from defined plans review by the Supervisory Board of Sto SE & Co. and targets were discussed in detail, and the KGaA, the statements, dependent company reasons for these decisions and the measures report, and risk report were approved on the introduced were discussed with the Supervisory recommendation of the Audit Committee withBoard and its committees. The members of the out any objections made. The appropriation Supervisory Board also worked closely with the of earnings proposed by the personally liable Executive Board of the personally liable partner partner was also approved by the Supervisory STO Management SE in order to advise it Board. The report of the Supervisory Board for between regularly scheduled meetings, and the the 2015 fiscal year and the agenda for the Chairman of the Supervisory Board in particular Annual General Meeting on 9 June 2016 were was kept continuously informed about business also finalised. In addition, a discussion was held development. During the reporting period, on the planned takeover of the Hesselberg there were no conflicts of interests affecting the Bygg group. As one of the leading manufacturSupervisory Board members’ abilities to perform ers of floor coatings on the Norwegian market, their duties. its product range perfectly complements the The Supervisory Board held five ordinary floor coatings business field of the Sto Group. Supervisory Board meetings during the 2016 Additionally, the Supervisory Board extenfiscal year. These took place on 22 April, 9 June, sively studied the information on the STO Man28 July, 3 November, and 21 December. The agement SE Supervisory Board’s appointment Supervisory Committee constituted a quorum of former Supervisory Board member Jan Nissen at all of the meetings. The members of the to the STO Management SE Executive Board Executive Board of the personally liable partner on 22 April 2016, to take effect on 1 January STO Management SE were present at the meet2017. On 1 January 2017, Jan Nissen took over ings unless topics had to be discussed in their the Technology portfolio from Gerd Stotmeister, 13 Sto SE & Co. KGaA | Report of the Supervisory Board who left the STO Management SE Executive the audit were presented and information was Board voluntarily at the end of 2016. Jan Nissen provided about examining the effectiveness was previously Head of Materials Manageof the internal control system. As of 1 January ment within the Sto Group. He resigned from 2017, Supervisory Board member Lothar Hinz his position as representative of management was elected a member of the Finance Commitemployees on the Supervisory Board of Sto SE & tee and the Audit Committee of Sto SE & Co. Co. KGaA on 31 December 2016. KGaA, acting as a successor to Jan Nissen, who The Supervisory Board meeting on 9 June stepped down on 31 December 2016. 2016 focused on preparations for the Annual The Supervisory Board reviewed its activities General Meeting scheduled for that same day. as part of an efficiency review in accordance During the Supervisory Board meeting on 28 with Item 5.6 of the German Corporate GovJuly 2016, the attendees primarily looked at the ernance Code (DCGK) in a special organisation projections for 2016 and the progress made by meeting. the New Balance programme. As well as this, the Supervisory Board obtained information Work of the committees about the extensive changes being made to The Supervisory Board of Sto SE & Co. KGaA the European Market Abuse Regulation (MAR), has formed an Audit Committee and a Finance which came into force on 3 July 2016, and the Committee. These bodies make preparations extension to the syndicated loan agreement for the agenda items to be discussed by the Sufrom its original five years to a term length with pervisory Board and the decisions it is to reach. one additional year, taking it to 2021. In 2016, the Audit Committee and Finance The agenda of the meeting on 3 NovemCommittee held four meetings each. They priber 2016 primarily included current business marily concerned themselves with the 2015 andevelopments and projections on the basis of nual financial statement of Sto SE & Co. KGaA, September’s results. There was also discussion the consolidated annual financial statement of on the changes in the German market for exterthe Sto Group, the management reports, the nal wall insulation systems and the resulting dependent company report, and the auditor’s risks and opportunities for Sto. report, and also dealt with interim reports and The meeting on 21 December primarily the half-year report in detail. As well as this, focused on planning for 2017. The outline for the committee members discussed the 2016 the 2017–2021 Strategic Planning was also Declaration of Compliance, plus the effectivea subject of discussion. There was extensive ness of the internal control and risk managediscussion on the current progress of the New ment system and the internal audit. The Finance Balance programme in the light of the unexCommittee examined the key management pectedly weak business development that had strategies carried out by STO Management SE, been experienced over the course of 2016. The particularly its management measures and the Supervisory Board received comprehensive reNew Balance programme. porting on the risk situation as well as activities A Nomination Committee was also formed relating to risk provisioning and securing earnand met once during 2016. This committee ings, and it also provided support for planned focused on the election of the new shareholder measures following in-depth discussions. representatives to the Supervisory Board, due to Another important subject was the auditor’s take place in 2017, and gave particular attenpreliminary audit of the 2016 annual financial tion to the gender quota during its discussions. statement of Sto SE & Co. KGaA. Results from 14 Report of the Supervisory Board | Sto SE & Co. KGaA Corporate Governance and Declaration of ments in its meeting held on 25 April 2017. In Compliance the ordinary Supervisory Board meeting on 26 During the 2016 fiscal year, the Supervisory April 2017, the Supervisory Board discussed Board once again dealt with Corporate Governthe statements and reports in detail. Auditor ance at Sto and took its lead from the German representatives were present at both meetings Corporate Governance Code. The Declaration to report on the audit results and provided of Compliance in accordance with Section 161 additional information when requested. They of the German Companies Act (AktG) was confirmed the effectiveness of the risk manupdated in December 2016. Details of this can agement and internal control systems to the be found in the Corporate Governance section Supervisory Board. The auditors also confirmed of the 2016 Annual Report. in writing that, apart from the audit, they did not provide the company with any other Audit of the annual financial statement significant services in the fiscal year and there On 9 June 2016, the Annual General Meetwere no circumstances that could impair their ing of Sto SE & Co. KGaA appointed Ernst & independence as auditors. The auditors from Young GmbH Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft, Ernst & Young GmbH issued the dependent Stuttgart, Germany, to act as the auditor for the company report with the following audit certifi2016 fiscal year. It audited the annual financial cate: “In our opinion, based on the examination statement of Sto SE & Co. KGaA, prepared by which we have carried out in accordance with the personally liable partner STO Management professional standards, the factual information SE, the management report, the consolidated contained in the report is correct, and the conannual financial statement of the Sto Group, sideration given by the Company for the legal and the Group management report for the transactions referred to in the report was not 2016 fiscal year as well as the dependent comunreasonably high.” pany report, prepared by the personally liable The final in-depth review of the annual partner STO Management SE in accordance financial statements and the management rewith Section 312, 278 of the German Comports of Sto SE & Co. KGaA and the Sto Group panies Act (AktG). The relevant audit partners by the Supervisory Board did not result in any with respect to Section 319a paragraph 1 objections. The Supervisory Board approved sentence 4 of the German Commercial Code the annual financial statement of Sto SE & Co. (HGB) were Dr Eckart Wetzel and Robin Traub. KGaA prepared by the personally liable partner The auditors confirmed that the management STO Management SE, the consolidated annual reports appropriately describe the situation of financial statement of the Sto Group for 2016, Sto SE & Co. KGaA and the Sto Group as well and the dependent company report, and acas the opportunities and risks associated with cordingly proposed the approval and consent of future development. Additionally, they positively the annual financial statements at the Sto SE & assessed the quality of the risk management Co. KGaA Annual General Meeting to be held system. The auditors awarded an unqualified on 14 June 2017. Audit Certificate. The Supervisory Board agrees to the proposal The annual financial statements of the comof the personally liable partner STO Managepany and the Group, the management reports, ment SE to propose a dividend distribution and the auditor reports were distributed to all of EUR 21,036,780.00 at the Annual General Supervisory Board members in a timely manner. Meeting on 14 June 2017. This means that The Audit Committee reviewed these doculimited preference shareholders are expected to 15 Sto SE & Co. KGaA | Report of the Supervisory Board receive an ordinary dividend of EUR 0.31 and a one-off bonus of EUR 3.00 per share and limited ordinary shareholders an ordinary dividend of EUR 0.25 and also a one-off bonus of EUR 3.00 per share. The Supervisory Board thanks all employees of Sto SE & Co. KGaA and the Executive Board members of the managing STO Management SE for their work and dedication over the past fiscal year. We would like to wish both the Executive Board members and all employees every success in tackling the challenges that the 2017 fiscal year is set to bring. Stühlingen/Germany, April 2017 Dr Max-Burkhard Zwosta Chairman of the Supervisory Board 16 Corporate Governance Report | Sto SE & Co. KGaA Corporate Governance Report/ Declaration on management of the company Corporate Governance at Sto & Co. KGaA and the Annual General Meeting This next section contains a report from Sto SE form the bodies of the company in accord& Co. KGaA and its personally liable partner ance with law and the applicable regulations. STO Management SE on the company’s CorpoAccordingly, the management of the Company rate Governance in accordance with Item 3.10 and the process of monitoring it are separated of the German Corporate Governance Code on a personnel level. Both the personally liable (also referred to as the Code). The report also partner and the Supervisory Board of Sto SE & contains a declaration on our key company Co. KGaA consistently abide by the standards management practices in accordance with of proper corporate management at all times Section 289a of the German Commercial Code and collaborate closely for Sto’s benefit. (HGB). The combined document is part of this Annual Report, which is also published under Shareholders and the Annual General “Investor Relations” on the section of the Sto Meeting website (www.sto.de) containing information At the end of 2016, Sto SE & Co. KGaA’s share about the company. This is supplemented by the capital amounted to an unaltered figure of remuneration report, which is part of the Notes. EUR 17.556 million. It is divided into 4.32 milSto is committed to responsible and translion registered limited ordinary shares and parent corporate management and monitor2.538 million limited preference bearer shares. ing (Corporate Governance), with a focus on Shareholders have a right to vote in the Annual sustainable value creation. This principle forms General Meeting and use it to decide on key the basis for our internal decision-making and company affairs. Each ordinary share grants control processes. one vote. Preference shares do not have voting Statutory regulations, ethical standards, a rights but take priority for the purpose of sound financial policy, and the German Corpoprofit distribution and are entitled to a higher rate Governance Code all provide anchor points dividend. There were no shares with multiple or that ensure we are pursuing the right course preferential voting rights. of action. Departures from the Code only The Annual General Meeting is held once a arise regarding issues that concern the specific year within the first eight months of the fiscal requirements of a medium-sized family business year. As the personally liable partner of Sto SE or the legal form of a partnership limited by & Co. KGaA, STO Management SE ensures shares. We apply revised standards to deal with the collection and timely dispatch of all reports this case. Departures from the recommendaand documents required by legislation for the tions of the Code in its current version of 5 May Annual General Meeting, including the agenda. 2015 and the respective reasons for doing so These documents as well as the Annual Report are explained in the Declaration of Compliance are also available on the Sto website. in accordance with Section 161 of the German At the Annual General Meeting, the perCompanies Act (AktG), which is available on sonally liable partner of Sto SE & Co. KGaA the Internet (both the latest version and older presents the annual financial statements for Sto versions). SE & Co. KGaA and the consolidated annual financial statement, as well as the management/ Bodies Group management report for the previous Sto SE & Co. KGaA is managed by the personfiscal year and comments on key events. The ally liable partner STO Management SE which annual financial statement is then ascertained together with the Supervisory Board of Sto SE by the Annual General Meeting. To help uphold 17 Sto SE & Co. KGaA | Corporate Governance Report shareholder rights, shareholders, who cannot or It is the job of the Chairman of the Supervichoose not to exercise their voting rights, can sory Board to coordinate the Board’s work, steer appoint a company representative voting in acits meetings, and represent its interests extercordance with their instructions to vote on their nally. He also maintains close contact with the behalf in the Annual General Meeting. members of the Executive Board of the personally liable partner STO Management SE between Supervisory Board meetings, discussing issues including strategy, The Supervisory Board of Sto SE & Co. KGaA is business development, and risk management. equally composed of shareholder and employee The annual financial statements of the Sto representatives in accordance with the German Group and Sto SE & Co. KGaA are reviewed by Co-Determination Act; there are six of each the Supervisory Board. This review is based on type of representative. The members are prethe findings of the auditor. Moreover, the halfsented in the report of the Supervisory Board. year financial report and the interim reports are The work of the Supervisory Board is regulated discussed with the Chairman of the Supervisory through rules of procedure. Its most important Board within the first and second half of the task is to monitor the personally liable partner year prior to their publication. The Chairman STO Management SE in the management of Sto then consults with other members. SE & Co. KGaA’s affairs. On 1 January 2017, Jan Nissen moved over The Supervisory Board becomes involved to the Executive Board of STO Management SE immediately in all decisions that are of fundaand, in doing so, resigned from his position as mental importance to Sto SE & Co. KGaA. Furrepresentative of management employees on thermore, it ensures that the personally liable the Supervisory Board of Sto SE & Co. KGaA partner STO Management SE complies with the on 31 December 2016. As there is only a short statutory disclosure rules in the manner detailed time between this and the upcoming election of at greater length by the Supervisory Board, as the new employee representatives in May 2017, required by law. those responsible for employees on the SuperThe Supervisory Board holds regular meetvisory Board declared that there was no need to ings. A total of five ordinary meetings were replace Jan Nissen’s position within this period. held in the 2016 fiscal year. The report of the When voting in new members to the SuperSupervisory Board contained in this Annual visory Board of listed joint stock companies, Report provides detailed information on the since 1 January 2016 it has been necessary to topics discussed. If required, meetings of the ensure that at least 30 % of the positions are Supervisory Board are separately prepared by held by women or men respectively. Two of the shareholder and employee representatives. the twelve members of the current SuperviThe Supervisory Board is briefed by the sory Board of Sto SE & Co. KGaA are women. personally liable partner STO Management SE Alongside this statutory regulation, Items on a regular, timely, and comprehensive basis 4.1.5, 5.1.2, and 5.4.1 of the new version of about the corporate strategy, planning, business the Corporate Governance Code also contain development, the financial and earnings situaregulations regarding equality between men tion, the employee situation, as well as the risk and women. They make provisions in the decsituation and risk management. Any departures laration on management of the company for in the business development from defined plans establishing benchmarks regarding the gender are discussed. The Supervisory Board is provided quota on the Supervisory Board, Executive with all crucial documents in a timely manner. Board, and both management levels below the 18 Corporate Governance Report | Sto SE & Co. KGaA Executive Board, as well as regular reporting on up to the Supervisory Board meetings, these the fulfilment of these targets within a specified committees generally deal with complex issues period. and prepare the findings for the full SuperviThe employee and shareholder representasory Board meetings. The Chairperson of the tives on the Supervisory Board of Sto SE & Co. relevant committee provides the Supervisory KGaA unanimously decided that the percentBoard with reports on the committee’s work. ages of women and men on the Supervisory The Chairperson of the Audit Committee is inBoard were to be met separately. Accordingly, dependent and cannot serve simultaneously as both the employee and shareholder representthe Chairperson of the Supervisory Board. As a atives on the Supervisory Board of Sto SE & Co. financial expert he has the specialist knowledge KGaA are obliged to independently fulfil the required for this position, and did not belong to gender quota for the members they appoint to the Executive Board during the past two years. the Supervisory Board. A Nomination Committee is also formed if The composition of the Supervisory Board there are upcoming Supervisory Board elections. ensures that the necessary expertise, skills, and The next ordinary elections for shareholder repprofessional experience required to properly resentatives to the Supervisory Board will take carry out the Board’s responsibilities are repplace at the Annual General Meeting in 2017. resented. All members of the Sto Supervisory The elections of employee representatives, Board are proven experts in their respective which are conducted in compliance with the fields. They are solely responsible for engaging German Co-Determination Act of 1976, started in the education and training measures that are with the announcement by the company on necessary for them to meet the requirements 7 November 2016 and will finish with the elecplaced on them as Supervisory Board members, tion process in May 2017. and receive appropriate support from Sto SE & Co. KGaA in doing this. Personally liable partner When proposing new members, the SuperThe personally liable partner STO Management visory Board must ascertain that the candidates SE manages the company through its Execucan invest the necessary time involved and are tive Board under its own authority and in the willing to make their personal and business afinterests of the company; this means aiming to fairs known to the company, corporate bodies, achieve sustainable added value while keeping and major shareholders. the needs of shareholders, employees, and The remuneration that Sto Supervisory Board other stakeholders in mind. It develops the members receive is at a level that appropriately company’s strategic orientation, ensures its reflects their duties and the position of the Sto implementation, and makes any arrangements Group. For more information on remuneration, necessary to ensure compliance with legal please consult the Notes to this Annual Report requirements and internal corporate guidelines and the Declaration of Compliance in accordwithin the Sto Group. ance with Section 161 of the German CompaThe functions of the personally liable partner nies Act (AktG). The Supervisory Board regularly also include the preparation of the annual checks the efficiency of its work. financial statement of Sto SE & Co. KGaA One way to improve efficiency is through and the related consolidated annual financial appropriately qualified committees. Sto SE & statement as well as the establishment and Co. KGaA features an Audit Committee and development of the risk management and cona Finance Committee. In the periods leading trolling system. Detailed information about risk 19 Sto SE & Co. KGaA | Corporate Governance Report management is provided in the management portion of women at this level is still below the report of this Annual Report. quota target to be reached by 30 June 2017. The personally liable partner STO Management SE complied with statutory regulations Key practices of corporate governance over the entire reporting period and also Alongside the statutory regulations and the observed the Code, other recognised external Corporate Governance Code, there are other standards, and company regulations. Informacompany management practices that Sto SE & tion about the applicable remuneration system Co. KGaA applies. These include both internal of the STO Management SE Executive Board is regulations and external standards such as the summarised in the Notes. “UN Global Compact”, a worldwide initiaOn 31 December 2016, Gerd Stotmeister tive set up under the auspices of the United – who was responsible for the Technology Nations. We joined this compact in 2009. It portfolio on the Executive Board of STO involves ten principles taken from the areas of Management SE – voluntarily resigned from human rights, labour standards, environmenhis position. The Supervisory Board of STO tal protection, and anti-corruption practice. Management SE appointed Jan Nissen as his Measures that we have put in place in order to successor during its meeting on 22 April 2016. implement the “Global Compact” are outlined Most recently, Jan Nissen was Head of Materiin the “Sustainability and Corporate Social Reals Management within the Sto Group and was sponsibility” section. This report also represents also a member of the Supervisory Board of Sto the annual Communication on Progress (COP) SE & Co. KGaA, acting as a representative of required by the “Global Compact”. management employees. Due to his appointOur most important internal regulations ment to the Executive Board of the personally include the “Principles for Cooperation and liable partner STO Management SE on 1 JanuManagement within the Sto Group”, a set of ary 2017, Jan Nissen resigned from his position Group-wide practice guidelines for all employon the Supervisory Board of Sto SE & Co. KGaA ees and managers. As well as rules for internal on 31 December 2016. cooperation, they also include information on The personally liable partner STO Managethe “Global Compact” principles, for example. ment SE also promotes diversity as required by the Code. As of 31 December 2016, of all the Transparency management positions on the level below the Sto SE & Co. KGaA is even-handed and timely personally liable partner, 0 % on the division in keeping its shareholders, financial analysts, management level and 9.4 % of the departthe media, and the general public informed ment manager positions were held by women. through regular, open, and up-to-date comBy 30 June 2017, these percentages are munication about the company’s economic required to be at 0 % and 10.2 % respectively, situation as well as any significant changes or and at 0 % and 12.0 % respectively by 31 Dedevelopments in its business. cember 2020. Despite the relevant requests We publish all key information – such as having been submitted during the process of annual and interim reports, press releases, adsearching for candidates when making new hoc disclosures, and voting rights announceappointments at the second management level ments, as well as all financial and sustainability below the Executive Board, it was not possible reporting – online under “Investor Relations” on to find any suitable female candidates during the section of the Sto website (www.sto.de) the 2016 fiscal year. This means that the procontaining information about the company. 20 Corporate Governance Report | Sto SE & Co. KGaA Annual and half-yearly reports are lodged with tor responsible takes part in the deliberations the Companies Register and the German fedof the Supervisory Board of Sto SE & Co. KGaA eral government gazette (”Bundesanzeiger”) concerning the annual financial statements and on the day of publication. the consolidated annual financial statement Persons with management functions at STO and reports on the key findings of his audit at Management SE or Sto SE & Co. KGaA must the Audit Committee meeting. disclose any private transactions involving Sto limited preference shares to the German Federal Financial Supervisory Authority (BaFin) and to Sto SE & Co. KGaA in accordance with Art. 19 of the MAR (Directors’ Dealings). No notifications of Directors’ Dealings occurred in fiscal 2016. All key dates for publications and functions are listed in the calendar of financial events, which is announced well in advance. The financial calendar, valid as of the end of March 2017, can be found both in the 2016 Annual Report and on the company’s website. Accounting and auditing of financial statements The accounting of the Sto Group is based on the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as applied in the European Union. The annual financial statement of the parent company Sto SE & Co. KGaA is based on the reporting standards of the German Commercial Code (HGB). The annual financial statement of both Sto SE & Co. KGaA as well as the statement of the Sto Group, including the associated management reports, are audited by an independent auditing company elected at the Annual General Meeting following a proposal by the Supervisory Board. The nomination proposal is preceded by an independence check in order to ensure that any conflicts of interest that might give rise to doubts concerning the impartiality of the auditor can be precluded early on. The auditing company commissioned by Sto, Ernst & Young GmbH Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft, Stuttgart/Germany, has issued an appropriate statement in this regard. The audi21 Sto SE & Co. KGaA | Management Report for the Sto Group (IFRS) Management Report for the Sto Group (IFRS) The Sto Executive Board (from left): Michael Keller, Rainer Hüttenberger, Gerd Stotmeister, and Rolf Wöhrle. Members of the Executive Board of STO Management SE in the fiscal year of 2016 (personally liable partner of Sto SE & Co. KGaA) Rainer Hüttenberger, Gerd Stotmeister, Stein am Rhein/Switzerland | Spokesman of Allensbach/Germany | Chief Technical Officer the Executive Board responsible for Marketing responsible for Process Engineering, Innovaand Sales Sto Brand International tion, Materials Management and Logistics (until 31 December 2016) Michael Keller, Bonndorf/Germany | Chief Sales Officer Rolf Wöhrle, responsible for Sales Sto Brand Germany, Bad Dürrheim/Germany | Chief Financial Distribution, and Central Services Officer responsible for Finance, Controlling, IT, Legal and Internal Audit Jan Nissen, Trossingen/Germany | Chief Technical Officer responsible for Process Engineering, Innovation, Materials Management, and Logistics (since 1 January 2017) 22 Management Report for the Sto Group (IFRS) | Sto SE & Co. KGaA The fiscal year 2016 at a glance • Consolidated turnover increases by 1.2 % to around EUR 1,230.7 million due to first-time consolidations • Domestic volume increases by 2.5 % to EUR 548.7 million, and growth abroad rises by 0.1 % to EUR 682.0 million • Consolidated EBIT decreases from EUR 81.5 million to EUR 70.3 million and earnings before tax (EBT) drop from EUR 81.2 million to EUR 68.1 million • Return on sales of 5.5 % compared to 6.7 % in the previous year • Dividend of EUR 0.31 per limited preference share and EUR 0.25 per limited ordinary share plus a bonus of EUR 3.00 per share • Cash flow from operating activity at EUR 95.4 million (previous year: EUR 78.9 million) • Increase in the number of employees in the Group by 219 to 5,251 due to the expansion of the companies consolidated • Outlook for 2017: increase in turnover of 3 % to around EUR 1,268 million and an EBIT of between EUR 80 million and EUR 90 million expected A. Group fundamentals 1 Insulation Sto-Stone Wool Insulation Board 2* Fixing (not shown) Sto-Insulation Dowel Business model 3 Fixing element, multi-part Sto SE & Co. KGaA specialises in products and Adjustable sleeve Threaded element systems for building coatings and is one of the Frame anchor most important global manufacturers in this 4 Carrier board StoSystain Panel industrial sector. The product range is divided 5 Base coat into four product groups: the core business of StoLevell Classic facade systems combines external wall insu6 Reinforcement Sto-Glass Fibre Mesh lation systems (EWIS), a segment in which our 7 Top coat company occupies a leading position, and rainStoSilco K/R/MP screen cladding facade systems (RSC). In 2016, The new StoSystain R facade this product group accounted for 46.0 % of the insulation system can easily total Group turnover. Facade coatings, which be dismantled after its lifetime 1 2* 3 4 5 6 5 7 include external render and paint systems, and recycled thanks to an accounted for 24.7 % of the turnover in the concrete repair which are attributed to Other innovative grip fastening year under review, and products for interiors, product groups. system consisting of mushsuch as plaster and paint systems optimised for The Sto Group benefits from its compreroom-shaped heads and loops. home and office interiors, decorative coatings, hensive expertise. Thanks to the Sto range interior claddings, and acoustic systems for with products that complement one another regulating sound, reported a turnover share of perfectly, we can provide our customers with 13.8 %. Furthermore, Sto produces and sells everything relating to facades from a single high-quality floor coatings and products for source and give building owners maximum 23 Sto SE & Co. KGaA | Management Report for the Sto Group (IFRS) freedom to create their own designs. We not only boast extensive knowledge about our core business of facade systems, but also about Sto’s innovative strength also contributes related areas such as design and consultancy to the brand’s positive image and the Group’s services and the use of alternative coating success. Our company is regarded worldwide materials or claddings such as brick slip and as a technological pacesetter in the industry, stone facades. The individual components of setting trends with products, systems, and our range of services are also ideally matched, services. To consolidate this leading position ensuring a high level of efficiency during the while also developing new growth markets, application process and maintaining the value research and development are considered core of construction works. strategic activities at Sto. This is also enshrined Our consistent implementation of this in our corporate vision “Technology leader in business model, which is based on expertise, the sustainable design of living space tailored to quality, and customer benefits, as well as our human needs. Worldwide”. uniform market presence in every country, have established Sto as one of the most Sales markets internationally recognised product brands Business activities of the Sto Group are divided in the industry. Our successful brand stratinto the geographical segments of Western egy is based on the four core brand values Europe and Other, with the latter being broken “Close”, “Experienced”, “Performing”, and down into the regions of Northern/Eastern “Advanced”. It is continually being optimised Europe and America/Asia within the internal and adapted in line with the prevailing general reporting framework. Our corporate manageconditions. ment is primarily focused on these regions. Sto subsidiaries Sto partners 24 Management Report for the Sto Group (IFRS) | Sto SE & Co. KGaA The most important market is Western Europe, these include lacquers and fillers. Since we see where, in 2016, Sto generated 76.7 % of the additional potential in this channel, we intend consolidated turnover – including Germany. to expand two-stage distribution gradually over 12.2 % was attributed to America and Asia the coming years. The acquisition of Ströher while Northern and Eastern Europe generated has strengthened the multi-stage distribution 11.1 % of the business volume. The most channel. significant individual market is Germany. In the year under review, it contributed around Corporate structure 44.6 % to the consolidated turnover. The parent company of the Group is Sto SE The globalization of our business activities is & Co. KGaA, headquartered in Stühlingen/ of vital importance to the development of the Germany. In addition to functioning as the Sto Group. By systematically targeting and tapGroup’s holding company, it is also responsiping into selected regions, we have managed ble for operative domestic business involving to secure additional sales potential worldwide, facade systems and coatings as well as interior spread the business risk and compensate for products. fluctuations in individual countries. At the end The following domestic units also belong to of 2016, the Sto Group was represented in the Sto Group: 36 countries with 48 subsidiaries of our own • StoCretec GmbH, located in Kriftel/Gerand their operating sites. In addition, we are in many, which is responsible for the areas of supplier relationships with distribution partners floor coatings and concrete repair within the in many other countries. Group, including the activities of the HesselSto products are used both in the construcberg Bygg Group, tion of new buildings and in the renovation of • Innolation GmbH, located in Lauingen/Gerexisting buildings. The comparative weighting many, which produces insulants and carries of these two market segments in individual out further developments in the area of regions depends on the characteristics specific innovative insulant technologies, to each country. Renovation business generates • Verotec GmbH, located in Lauingen/Gerthe majority of Sto Group turnover worldwide. many, which produces carrier boards for acoustic systems, rainscreen cladding facade Customers and distribution system systems, and architectural elements on The range of the Sto brand is targeted at behalf of other Group companies, as well as professional applicators such as painters, selling its products and services to external plasterers, and building contractors, as well as industry customers, architects and planning offices. These target • VeroStone GmbH, located in Kirchheim/ groups are supported on site by means of a Germany, which specialises in natural stone direct distribution system which, in the core work, market Germany, covers almost the entire • Ströher GmbH, located in Dillenburg/Gercountry. Sto has also been developing a second many and consolidated into the Sto Group distribution channel, multi-stage distribusince the start of 2016 – and its subsidiaries tion, for a number of years now. Through – with a focus on brick surfaces, outdoor wholesalers and specialist retailers we provide ceramics, and interior tiles, customers with selected products that we • Südwest Lacke + Farben GmbH & Co. KG, have clearly defined as distinct from our core located in Böhl-Iggelheim/Germany, is the business and that have their own market niche: Group’s specialist for paints and lacquers. 25 Sto SE & Co. KGaA | Management Report for the Sto Group (IFRS) This associate particularly focuses on working and managed by reference to strategic and with retailers, but also contributes its extenoperational targets as well as key financial sive expertise in its core field of activity to the figures. These are based on business figures pool of knowledge that the Sto Group has as which are uniformly determined throughout a whole. the Group and which, in turn, are part of a standardised reporting system. The primary Foreign business is largely handled by nakey operating ratios employed by Sto SE & Co. tional companies operating independently, with KGaA are net turnover, earnings before interthe service spectrum offered in each case being est and taxes (EBIT), earnings before tax (EBT), tailored to suit local conditions and specific and return on sales. The ROCE key figure is requirements. The products are usually either a new parameter used to monitor the return produced locally by the companies themselves on investment. It is based on the EBIT divided or purchased via the Group. A list of all subsidiby the average capital employed. These key aries of Sto SE & Co. KGaA is reproduced in the figures are also employed in the planning and Notes for the Group. controlling process. The business fields are responsible for The reports compiled within this standardproducts and systems worldwide and are each ised reporting system are submitted directly to managed by a team of product managers. The STO Management SE, which then forwards the Heads of the Business fields are responsible relevant information to Sto’s Supervisory Board for the strategic positioning of their areas and via its Executive Board. Additionally, manageproducts, and coordinate marketing and sales ment meetings between the Executive Board of objectives with the subsidiaries. In this way we STO Management SE and the executive staff of are able to become better acquainted with the the subsidiaries or sales regions take place on vast range of different requirements that the a regular basis. The control system used by Sto various markets have and tap into additional SE & Co. KGaA strengthens the decentralised sales potential through our targeted market entrepreneurial responsibility of our employees approach and specialist technical expertise. at a local level while also guaranteeing transThe business fields are complemented by parency within the Group. central units such as technical service or straIn addition to internal parameters, we also tegic marketing. These provide global support monitor external early indicators as a means to all our subsidiaries or product groups and of further improving our planning processes as assistance in dealing with overarching issues. well as our corporate and risk management. This creates the right conditions for efficient Such indicators primarily consist of economic management on a global scale, and for tardata and detailed information on the sector, geted development of the service portfolio. such as the trends in the volume of structural engineering, or the segments for new buildings Business management and control system and renovation. Sto SE & Co. KGaA’s business affairs are Information on the declaration on manmanaged by the four-strong Executive Board agement of the company in accordance with of the personally liable partner STO ManParagraph 315 Section 5 of the German Comagement SE. It develops the Group strategy mercial Code (HGB) contains the Corporate and ensures its implementation. The parent Governance Report / Declaration on managecompany Sto SE & Co. KGaA, its subsidiaries, ment of the company. and the other corporate units are controlled 26 Management Report for the Sto Group (IFRS) | Sto SE & Co. KGaA Fundamentals of the remuneration system and managers with guidance when making Remuneration of the Executive Board of the strategic and operational decisions. The key personally liable partner Sto Management SE is foundation to long-term success are sustainable paid by STO Management SE, which, as stipuand solid economics, constant progress and a lated in Paragraph 6, Section 3 of the articles financially sound footing. Our guiding principles of association of Sto SE & Co. KGaA, receives define our strategy, which contains the followa compensation of expenditure from Sto SE & ing core components: Co. KGaA to the full amount. The remunera• Earnings-oriented growth – We align our tion of the members of the board consists of decisions with this overarching corporate a fixed component and a variable component, objective. which can carry significantly more weight, yet • Internationalisation – By systematically is also capped. The variable element comprises developing and penetrating selected regions, a long-term incentive, based on the turnover we increase our sales opportunities and development of the Sto Group and ROCE key reduce our dependency on individual counfigures, as well as an earnings-oriented shorttries. term incentive. In case of an existing contract, • Development of alternative distribution which expired at the end of 2016, the amount channels – Gradual development of our of the variable salary component is calculated multi-stage distribution concept, alongside exclusively on the earnings trend without a the tried-and-tested Sto direct distribution long-term incentive. No stock options are system, attracts additional groups of customgranted. ers and expands our base. The members of the Supervisory Board of • Group expertise – Organic further developSto SE & Co. KGaA are provided with fixed ment or suitable acquisitions reinforce the remuneration and a compensation for costs Sto Group’s expertise and is expanded in incurred. The Chairman of the committee is specific areas. entitled to four times and the Deputy Chairman • Attractive employer – We develop and to two and a half times the amount of the basic embrace measures for adding new specialists remuneration. The Chairman of a Supervisory and managers to our team and improving Board Committee is additionally remunerated our employees’ levels of qualification, perforwith a fixed annual amount. If a committee has mance, and satisfaction. only been formed for part of a fiscal year, the • Research and development – We continremuneration shall be proportionate. ually intensify our activities in the area of The Notes contain additional information on R&D in order to consolidate our position the remuneration of administrative bodies in as an innovative pacesetter in the industhe company. trial sector and underpin the vision as a technology market leader. Additionally, we Strategic objectives take an active role in trade associations and Sto’s business model is geared towards longinterest groups, so that we can contribute term success and pursues the goal of global to the process of shaping general conditions technology leadership in the sustainable design within the industry and the technology it of living space tailored to human needs. This uses. corporate vision (along with the other principles • Corporate Social Responsibility – By conon which our practice is based) is anchored in sistently implementing and developing our the Sto Guiding Principles, providing employees strategy of sustainability, we take respon27 Sto SE & Co. KGaA | Management Report for the Sto Group (IFRS) sibility towards customers, the company, responded with a quality campaign to focus employees, other stakeholders, shareholders, more intently on the value of our services. The and the environment. expanded range of products in the facade segment is also expected to offset this decline: over the last few years we have developed several B. Financial report alternatives that display outstanding properties with regards to ecology, fire protection, energy Overview of business performance in 2016 efficiency, and recycling. The product range of and general statement on economic develthe Ströher Group, consolidated in 2016 for the opment first time, has also expanded our position in the Once again Sto SE & Co. KGaA navigated facade segment. through a challenging business environment in 2016. Global economic development was thwarted by numerous influencing factors such as geopolitical tensions, international terrorBusiness development of the Sto Group ism, the refugee situation, the Brexit decision, as a whole remained significantly below our the knock-on effects of the financial crisis, the expectations in 2016. Primarily due to the structural change in China, and the elections in losses in the facade systems product group, the the U.S. As a whole, we were not able to offset consolidated turnover failed to increase by 5 % losses recorded in individual countries by positive to around EUR 1,277 million as was expected business development in other regions. We at the start of the year but rose only by 1.2 % also had to bear negative currency conversion to EUR 1,230.7 million. The increase was solely effects. The generated net growth in turnover attributable to the acquisitions consolidated for was solely attributed to acquisitions made by the the first time: The Ströher Group, consolidated company. since the beginning of 2016, as well as the HesOn a domestic level the construction industry selberg Bygg Group, acquired on 1 July. Without was dominated by a flurry of new building acfirst-time consolidation and negative currency tivities and respective growth, yet the important conversion effects, there is a decline in turnover EWIS market again went against this trend in across the Group of 1.2 % compared to the Germany. This segment had to face another same period of the previous year. The forecast drop in its market volume in 2016 for the fifth of EUR 1,217 million, which had been adjusted consecutive year. The continuing, unabated unin November, was slightly exceeded due to the ease among private building owners especially favourable weather conditions in the last few had a significant effect on this decline. It was weeks of the fiscal year. triggered by the contradictory and partly very The earnings performance for 2016 was exaggerated media reports and the resulting hit even more drastically than the turnover by controversial discussion on the use of external negative impacts. Consolidated earnings before wall insulation systems. To offset this decline, interest and taxes (EBIT) fell by 13.7 % to EUR we were quick to respond by initiating an 70.3 million. The operating profit was below extensive information campaign. By raising the initial expectations of between EUR 80 million awareness amongst specific target groups, our and EUR 90 million yet managed to remain aim is to inject objective information into the above the range of EUR 52 million and EUR 62 debate and dismiss user concerns by taking an million which had been adjusted in autumn. objective line of argumentation. We have also Earnings before taxes (EBT) were recorded at 28 Management Report for the Sto Group (IFRS) | Sto SE & Co. KGaA EUR 68.1 million (corrected forecast: between be fleshed out in more detail in negotiations EUR 50 million and EUR 60 million; original with employee representatives. We expect the forecast: between EUR 78 million and EUR 88 first positive contribution to earnings from this million) and return on sales of 5.5 % (corprogram in the 2017 fiscal year. rected forecast: between 4.1 % and 4.9 %; The financial and asset situation continued original forecast: between 6.1 % and 6.9 %). to be very solid with the Group equity ratio Consolidated net profit for the year dropped standing at 59.5 % (previous year: 63.0 %) and to EUR 45.7 million in the year under review. cash and cash equivalents amounting to EUR The improvement of EBIT and EBT compared to 70.1 million (previous year: EUR 70.9 million). the corrected forecast were mainly attributable Taking borrowings into account, net financial to the higher than expected turnover at year assets stood at EUR 55.5 million (previous year: end and the charges from risk provisions which EUR 66.4 million). Cash flow from operating were lower than originally expected. activities improved from EUR 78.9 million to Within the company we have invested a EUR 95.4 million. lot of time and commitment on to the New The Executive Board of the personally liable Balance programme in 2016. The aim of this partner STO Management SE will propose a programme is to recover a balance between dividend distribution of EUR 21,036,780.00 at turnover and cost increase in the Sto Group the annual general meeting on 14 June 2017. and improve profitability so we steer our course This means that limited preference shareholders back to our long-term set of objectives. A key will receive an ordinary dividend of EUR 0.31 focus of this programme is to consolidate those and a one-off bonus of EUR 3.00 per share, and product groups with a global potential for limited ordinary shareholders will receive an orgrowth and develop initiatives targeted towards dinary dividend of EUR 0.25 and also a one-off growth particularly on the German market. We bonus of EUR 3.00 per share. have already identified opportunities for growth The first quarter of 2017 has marked a posiin Germany and are in the process of launching tive start to the current reporting period taking concrete measures to increase turnover. The into account weather conditions. Consolidated aim is to successively tap into other areas of turnover was above the previous year’s level growth offering medium-term turnover potenduring the first three months of 2017. tial, for example digitisation or new product For 2017 as a whole, we expect to see applications. The second focus of this program growth in consolidated turnover of 3 %, up to is to systematically improve the efficiency of around EUR 1,268 million. As things stand, we our core processes and structures. During the anticipate consolidated earnings before interest first phase all company areas were thoroughly and taxes (EBIT) to amount to between EUR 80 analysed and measures identified which were and 90 million. On the whole, the Executive then fleshed out in detail in the second phase. Board of STO Management SE continues to The resulting activities were then developed view the business prospects of the Sto Group by mid-2016. Since business development was as positive at the time of compiling the Group below expectations in the second half year, an management report. The expected development additional package was rolled out, aimed at of the Sto Group is discussed in more depth in optimising earnings. Along with steps to reduce the Outlook report section of this report. material costs and improve margins, Sto SE & Co. KGaA has also planned human resource measures. This supplementary program will 29 Sto SE & Co. KGaA | Management Report for the Sto Group (IFRS) Overall economic and indusseen an increase of 1.7 %. The consumer sector trial sector-related general was again the cornerstone of economic growth in Germany: private consumer spendings were conditions in 2016 up 2.0 % on the previous year. State spendings increased by 4.0 % mainly due to the Global economic development high rate of immigration and associated costs. The worldwide economy experienced a more Investments also contributed to the rise in the moderate growth than originally expected in German BIP: building investments rose strongly 2016. Calculations by the International Moneby 3.0 % (previous year: +0.3 %), attributed tary Fund (IMF) indicate that the global economy mainly to residential construction. 1.1 % more rose by only 3.1 %, a similarly subdued growth was invested in equipment (previous year: as in 2015 (previous year: 3.2 %). The IMF +3.7 %). Exports also increased by 2.6 % (preoriginally predicted a 3.4 % rise yet was forced vious year: +5.2 %). to revise down their forecasts over the course of the year. The structural change in China, ongoInternational trends for the construction ing economic difficulties in several EU countries, sector the Brexit vote in the UK, and the US elections The construction industry in Europe as a all contributed to economic uncertainty. In many whole continued on a solid course of expancountries, regional crises, the refugee situation, sion in 2016. According to calculations from and international terrorism also had a negative the EUROCONSTRUCT research network, effect on economic sentiment. the volume of construction in the 19 partner In industrial nations, the gross domestic countries rose again for the third year in sucproduct (BIP) rose by 1.6 % in 2016 (previous cession. A 2.0 % increase on last year to EUR year: 2.1 %). Driving forces behind this upturn 1.44 trillion was generated although this rise was the U.S. economy which gained impetus in is around half a percent less than the forecast the second half after a disappointing first half originally published by experts in summer to record an increase of 1.6 % (previous year: 2016. The building activities in some countries 2.6 %), and the eurozone which grew as exwere restrained mainly due to political unrest pected by 1.7 % (previous year: 2.0 %). Stable and a reduced level of public investment. The progress in Spain and Germany compensated upswing in Europe witnessed in 2016 can be for the extremely restrained economy in Italy traced to the residential construction sector and France. which rose by 3.9 %, amounting to 46.6 % of The developing and emerging countries the total revenues. The new construction sector witnessed a more dynamic development on the was the major growth momentum, recording whole: with a growth rate unchanged on last an increase of 7.2 % while maintenance and year’s figure of 4.1 %, this group of countries modernisation measures on existing residential still remained below the original forecast of buildings rose by only 1.7 %. Non-residential 4.3 % at the start of the year. China set the construction, where the volume of construcpace in the year under review with a 6.7 % extion services rose by 1.5 %, was attributed to pansion thanks to state-funded subsidies. Brazil 32.1 % of the total revenues and the remaining and Russia remained stuck in a recession. 21.3 % to civil engineering services, which was According to calculations from the German slightly down on last year’s figures. Federal Statistics Office, gross domestic product According to figures released by the Central rose by 1.9 % on the previous year which had Federation of the German Construction Indus30 Management Report for the Sto Group (IFRS) | Sto SE & Co. KGaA try, the turnover of the German construction sectors were either stopped or put on hold due industry increased by 4.8 %, higher than the figto the sluggish economy. The Chinese economy ure forecast at the start of the year. Figures were was only able to manage a 6.7 % rise in 2016 above expectations mainly due to the good as a whole – the slowest rate since 1990. Many weather conditions which, in contrast to last Chinese citizens are concerned about the future year, enabled an all-year round production withdevelopment and are therefore showing caution out any serious gaps in work. Residential condespite the government’s massive investments struction recorded a strong growth of 8.5 % in in infrastructure. This has caused a far more 2016 which was attributed to low interest rates, competitive environment in the construction the high number of refugees and the continuing industry. Price-conscious building owners usually migration within Germany to large urban cities. prefer local suppliers and are lowering building The public construction sector (+6.4 %) and costs in non-visible areas such as energy-efficient commercial construction (+3.9 %) also proved measures. The very low energy prices are also to be more productive than expected. slowing down the demand for energy-efficient A positive trend in building construction was constructions. again recorded in the USA in 2016 but was slightly less dynamic than last year. Based on the nominal 8 % increase in expenditure on conBusiness performance and struction in the first half of the year, “Germany development of turnover Trade and Invest” (GTAI) expects a medium single-digit growth for the year as a whole after The consolidated turnover of Sto SE & Co. KGaA the exponential 16 % increase in 2015. Accordin 2016, including the acquisitions factored in ing to the forecast of the NAHB (National Assofor the first time, increased by 1.2 % to EUR ciation of Home Builders) from September, the 1,230.7 million (previous year: EUR 1,216.6 entire residential construction sector will grow by 7.7 % in 2016. The boom in the commercial Sto Group Turnover in EUR million real estate sector also continued at the same rate. The first six months of 2016 saw a sharp rise in hotels (+27 %) as well as offices (+20 %) 1,200 1,208.7 1,216.6 1,230.7 1,166.0 and commercial buildings (+10 %) in compar1,100 1,141.7 1,106.8 ison to the same period last year. The growth 1,000 momentum of the manufacturing industry and 900 the institutional sector slowed down in 2015. 800 In China, the position of the construction industry has relaxed slightly according to GTAI 700 figures. After a very weak 2015, where produc600 tion figures reached their lowest rise of 2.3 % 500 since the monitoring of figures started in 2001, 400 a 7.0 % rise was generated in the first half of 300 2016. The number of new construction projects increased by 12 % between mid 2015 and 200 August 2016, for the first time after two years 100 of decline. Many construction projects from the residential construction and commercial 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 31 Sto SE & Co. KGaA | Management Report for the Sto Group (IFRS) million). Of this, an amount of EUR 32.2 million to the falling demand that had already persisted was attributable to the Ströher Group, part of for a number of years, the extent of the decline the Group since the beginning of the year, and was worse than we had anticipated. The conEUR 5.9 million to the Hesselberg Bygg Group, flicting and, in some cases, highly exaggerated taken over on 1 July 2016. Without first-time media reports on the subject of using external consolidation effects, the result would have repwall insulation systems, as well as the controresented a decline of 2.0 %. These positive efversial debate that arose as a result, increasingly fects of first-time consolidation were contrasted began to have an impact on not only private by losses arising from currency translations, building owners, but also other target groups amounting to EUR 9.1 million. Adjusted for the such as architects and housing companies – and effects of first-time consolidation and currency this was primarily responsible for the noticeably translation, the Group experienced a decline in cautious attitude adopted among users. turnover of 1.2 % compared with 2015. Additionally, renovation in the domestic conIn Germany, consolidated turnover increased struction market – a crucial segment for Sto – by 2.5 % to EUR 548.7 million as a result of the experienced stagnation. While a boom is taking expansion of companies consolidated (previous place in new building, demand for maintenance year: EUR 535.4 million). On a purely organic and modernisation has remained lukewarm for level – that is, without the Ströher Group consolisome years now. dated for the first time – the domestic volume Abroad, the Sto Group recorded a slight infell by 1.2 % compared with the previous year. crease of 0.1 % to EUR 682.0 million (previous Conditions in the core business of facade sysyear: EUR 681.2 million), although countries tems were especially unfavourable. Although we including China, Switzerland, and Italy were were prepared for a difficult market situation due required to absorb significant losses in the process. In comparison to the previous year, Sto Group Domestic and foreign the share of Group turnover generated abroad turnover in EUR million decreased from 56.0 % to 55.4 %. 700 Sto Group Regional breakdown of 681.2 682.0 consolidated turnover 659.5 631.3 600 617.0 529.4 Western Europe 500 534.7 549.2 535.4 548.7 (incl. Germany) 577.4 524.7 76.7 % 400 300 200 Northern/Eastern Europe 11.1 % 100 America/Asia 12.2 % 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Germany Non-Germany 32 Management Report for the Sto Group (IFRS) | Sto SE & Co. KGaA Turnover in the Western Europe segment 1.6 % to EUR 304.0 million, reducing the cor(including Germany) increased by 1.3 % to responding share in Group turnover to 24.7 %. EUR 944.0 million (previous year: EUR 931.5 Turnover relating to interior products increased million) in 2016, exclusively as a result of the by 5.9 % to EUR 169.8 million (share: 13.8 %), first-time consolidations. Without Ströher, this and by 17.9 % to EUR 190.8 million in the would have meant a 2.1 % decrease. This other business fields (share: 15.5 %). was attributable to declines in Germany, Italy, and Switzerland, which is continuing to suffer Earnings situation effects relating to exchange rates; all of these In 2016, it was possible to cut material costs countries demonstrated significantly weaker in the Sto Group by 1.8 % to EUR 534.6 milbusiness development during the second half of lion, resulting in the cost of sales percentage the year. decreasing from 44.8 % in the previous year to In the Northern/Eastern Europe region, Sto 43.4 %. Group-wide procurement advantages recorded a 5.5 % growth to EUR 136.9 million and the effects of a mix of products compen(previous year: EUR 129.8 million) thanks mainly sated for the persistently high pressure exerted to the first-time incorporation of the Hesselberg on sales prices. The price of crude oil, which Bygg Group. Adjusted for this first-time consolion average fell below the price in the previous dation effect, this represents a slight increase of year, helped particularly in alleviating the cost 0.9 %. Development varied across the remainsituation. der of the Northern Europe countries. Sales in On the other hand, personnel expenses Eastern Europe experienced a significant drop increased disproportionately in relation to during the second half of the year, although consolidated turnover, by 7.7 % to EUR 348.9 it was still possible to generate net growth in million. One cause of this was the increase in turnover. Business development continued to the Group’s workforce, which as a net effect, prove difficult in Russia in particular. was solely attributable to the expansion in The decline in the America/Asia segment, companies consolidated. It was also attributable where the turnover figure of EUR 149.8 million to increases resulting from collective bargaining was around 3.5 % below the previous year’s agreements as well as one-off expenses from volume (previous year: EUR 155.3 million), was the personnel measures planned as part of the principally the result of dwindling demand in New Balance programme. These measures are China. The healthy conditions in the economy likely to start creating positive outcomes from of the USA as a whole increasingly made an im2017 onwards. pact, while development in Brazil was markedly Other operating expenses in 2016 increased negative, mirroring the country’s economic situaby 2.7 % to EUR 269.7 million, primarily as a tion. The other countries in South America were result of first-time consolidation effects. Adable to make gains after starting at a low level. justed for these first-time consolidation effects, the result represents a slight decrease compared Performance of product groups with the previous year. At the same time, other The facade systems business dropped by 3.3 % operating income fell by 9.3 % from EUR 27.9 to EUR 566.1 million, prompted by the difficult million to EUR 25.3 million, as a result of which market situation in Germany. As a result, this the balance of other operating income and largest product group accounted for a total of other operating expenses stood at EUR -244.4 46.0 % of the Group turnover in 2016. The million compared with EUR -234.6 million in the turnover attributable to facade coatings fell by previous year. 33 Sto SE & Co. KGaA | Management Report for the Sto Group (IFRS) In comparison to the previous year, earnings EUR -2.2 million in 2016, following EUR -0.3 before interest, taxes, and depreciation/amortimillion in the previous year. Interest income fell sation (EBITDA) fell from EUR 112.6 million to from EUR 1.5 million to EUR 1.0 million due EUR 103.0 million. Depreciation/amortisation to persistently low market interest rates, while of intangible assets as well as property, plant, interest expense increased slightly from EUR 2.7 and equipment amounted to EUR 32.7 million, million to EUR 2.8 million, particularly as a result 5.5 % above the previous year’s level. In total, of first-time consolidation effects. Other sources consolidated earnings before interest and taxes of financial income has not been reported. The (EBIT) amounted to EUR 70.3 million compared previous year included EUR 0.9 million from the with EUR 81.5 million in the previous year. deconsolidation of WT Gebäudemanagement In 2016, EBIT in the Western Europe segGmbH. ment fell to EUR 57.0 million (previous year: The Sto Group recorded total consolidated EUR 75.1 million). However, Northern/Eastern earnings before tax (EBT) of EUR 68.1 million Europe recorded an improved EBIT of EUR 5.7 (previous year: EUR 81.2 million), with a return million (previous year: EUR -0.02 million). The on sales of 5.5 % – following 6.7 % in the preAmerica/Asia segment contributed EUR 7.1 vious year. The tax rate rose from 31.4 % in the million to the Group’s EBIT (previous year: EUR previous year to 33.0 %. Due to the changes 7.3 million). in earnings situation within the Group, factors such as differences in the income tax between Sto Group EBIT in EUR million the individual companies had an impact. In total, net profit for the year fell to EUR 45.7 million compared with EUR 55.7 million in the 2015 fiscal year. 104.5 100 99.9 90 95.3 97.0 Sto Group Net profit for the year in EUR million 80 81.5 70 70 70.3 70.3 68.4 65.4 66.0 60 60 50 50 55.7 40 40 45.7 30 20 30 10 20 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 10 Income from financial investments and investment property in the Sto Group totalled 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 34 Management Report for the Sto Group (IFRS) | Sto SE & Co. KGaA Diluted and basic earnings were EUR 7.20 We aim to establish a balanced relationship per limited preference share (previous year: EUR between equity and debt capital in order to 8.77) and EUR 7.14 per limited ordinary share ensure a long-term financing scope. Our current (previous year: EUR 8.71). financial requirements – which can fluctuate As at 31 December 2016, at 13.9 %, the significantly with the seasons over the course of ROCE (Return on Capital Employed) figure was the year – are mainly covered using a combibelow the previous year’s value of 17.6 %. nation of operating cash flow and available liquidity. Where necessary, we also make use of Sto SE & Co. KGaA – Dividend temporary credit facilities based on a syndicated The parent company Sto SE & Co. KGaA expeloan agreement, which had an original term of rienced a decline in earnings before income five years and was extended during the year taxes, determined in accordance with the under review by one additional year, taking it German Commercial Code (HGB) from EUR to 2021. Furthermore, we made use of leases 64.6 million to EUR 56.5 million, with a decline during the year under review. At the 2016 year in the net profit for the year from EUR 48.2 end, the present value of disbursements due million to EUR 45.4 million. The financial and from finance leases in the future stood at EUR asset situation of Sto SE & Co. KGaA remained 0.7 million (previous year: EUR 0.7 million). extremely solid, with an equity ratio of 70.1 % To minimise the effect of exchange rate (previous year: 71.5 %). fluctuations on consolidated earnings, foreign The Executive Board of the personally currency items are netted within the Group. liable partner STO Management SE will Additionally, we determine the foreign curpropose a total dividend distribution of EUR rency cash flows within the Group during the 21,036,780.00 at the Annual General Meeting planning phase for the following year, on the on 14 June 2017. This means that limited basis of which we devise suitable hedging preference shareholders will receive an ordinary strategies. Planned cash positions are hedged dividend of EUR 0.31 and a one-off bonus of through instruments congruent to the time and EUR 3.00 per share. Limited ordinary shareholdeconomic state from the area of derivatives. ers will be paid an ordinary dividend of EUR Most of the Sto Group subsidiaries oper0.25 as well as a one-off bonus of EUR 3.00 per ating in the eurozone are integrated into a share. In the previous year, a one-off bonus of cash-pooling system which is used to optimise EUR 4.56 per share was paid out. liquidity management. This allows us to net cash surpluses and cash requirements autoFinancial situation matically within the Group, and minimise the The most important objectives of financial mannumber of external banking transactions. We agement in the Sto Group are to ensure the invest any surpluses under conditions that are Group’s liquidity worldwide, optimise financial as favourable as possible to improve our net expenses and income, and control and minimise interest income. currency and interest risks. We use a wide range The treasury activities in the Sto Group are of financial instruments in order to ensure as managed by an independent department which little dependence as possible on individual maris responsible for areas such as the recognition kets and methods of financing. When working and control of financial resources, internal with banks, we look for those which enjoy the and external financing, as well as financial risk highest credit ratings and are able to build longmanagement. By doing this, we are taking into term relationships characterised by mutual trust. account the Group’s continuing internation35 Sto SE & Co. KGaA | Management Report for the Sto Group (IFRS) alisation and the increasing risk management million). Cash flow from investment activity requirements that come with it. adjusted for deposits and disbursements for financial investments amounted to EUR -46.9 Liquidity movements in 2016 million (previous year: EUR -33.0 million). Cash flow from operating activities within the The cash outflow in financing activities fell Sto Group grew from EUR 78.9 million in the from EUR 167.8 million to EUR 34.6 million. previous year to EUR 95.4 million. This lower This significant decline was attributable to the result stood in contrast to the positive effects previous year’s high dividend distribution to our from the change in provisions and the reduced shareholders, amounting to EUR 163.3 million. income tax payments compared with the preThe outflow in the year under review totalled vious year. Net interest and other net financial EUR 31.1 million. income/expense amounted to EUR -1.8 million Changes related to the exchange rate had (previous year: EUR -0.3 million). The cash flow very little impact on the 2016 results and margin increased from 6.5 % to 7.8 %. amounted to EUR -0.1 million (previous year: Cash flow from investment activities stood EUR +2.2 million), resulting in cash and cash at EUR -61.4 million (previous year: EUR 44.6 equivalents falling by a total of EUR 0.8 million million) in 2016. This included EUR 10.9 million to EUR 70.1 million. This sum once again clearly spent on the acquisition of consolidated comexceeded the borrowings of EUR 14.6 million panies (previous year: EUR 0.05 million). Outon the balance sheet date (previous year: EUR flows relating to investments in property, plant, 4.5 million). and equipment as well as intangible assets increased from EUR 35.8 million to EUR 37.5 Investments continue at a high level million. During the year under review, funds In the 2016 fiscal year, the Sto Group invested amounting to EUR 27.7 million (previous year: EUR 37.5 million in property, plant, and equipEUR 107.9 million) also became available after ment as well as intangible assets compared the end of the period, while a sum of EUR 42.2 to EUR 35.8 million in the previous year. This million was reinvested (previous year: EUR 30.3 amount was below the budget of EUR 45 million, as economic developments led some Sto Group Cash flow statement of the measures that had been planned for in EUR K implementation within the individual Group companies to be cancelled, reduced or post2016 2015 poned. One of the Group’s largest investment Cash flow projects was erecting the new reception and from operating activities 95,391 78,912 office building in Stühlingen. It was inaugurated from investment activities –61,443 44,592 in September 2016. Created using low-emission building products, one of the special features from financing activities –34,605 –167,833 of this building complex is its innovative energy Change in cash and cash equivalents concept that makes use of renewable sources. from changes in exchange rates –134 2,174 The new building has received the German Cash and cash equivalents at Sustainable Building Council’s highest possible beginning of period 70,862 113,017 award: a platinum certificate. Change in cash and cash equivalents –791 –42,155 In April 2016 the green light was given to Cash and cash equivalents at Lauingen-based Verotec GmbH’s highest single the end of period 70,071 70,862 investment to date. The subsidiary’s focus is on 36 Management Report for the Sto Group (IFRS) | Sto SE & Co. KGaA Sto Group Investments and depreciaincorporated into the consolidated annual tion/amortisation (without financial statement of the Sto Group for the financial assets) in EUR million first time. The growth mainly resulted from the higher asset level, which grew by EUR 26.3 40 million to EUR 308.3 million. Other non-current 39.1 assets increased by a total of EUR 1.2 million to 36.3 37.5 35.8 EUR 20.1 million. 30 32.4 32.7 Current assets demonstrated a net gain of 27.6 29.9 31.0 29.0 13.1 % to EUR 385.8 million. This included 29.7 25.9 a rise in inventory of EUR 21.3 million to EUR 20 92.5 million, of which an amount of EUR 16.5 million was recorded by the Ströher Group and the Hesselberg Bygg Group. At the same 10 time, strategic provisioning was expanded in anticipation of rising raw material prices in 2017. Current financial assets increased by 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 EUR 13.8 million to EUR 72.6 million. This item Investments Depreciation/amortisation includes funds that had been invested with a time to maturity of more than three months to producing carrier boards for acoustic systems, one year. The EUR 11.0 million increase in other rainscreen cladding systems, and architectural current assets to EUR 22.0 million (31 Decemelements. Production capacity at this site is set ber 2015: EUR 11.0 million) was mainly the to double by mid-2017 in order to accommoresult of refund claims. Current trade receivadate the growing demand for lightweight conbles remained virtually unchanged at EUR 122.5 struction boards. The work at Verotec GmbH million (31 December 2015: EUR 123.0 million). includes building additional production and Similarly, cash and cash equivalents were, at logistics halls, office space, and raw material silos. Sto Group Balance sheet structure Measures relating to the long-term “Retroas at 31 December 2016 fit” programme also continued. These include replacing older production plants within the Sto Assets Liabilities Group or bringing them up to the latest standards of technology. Non-current assets Asset situation 46.0 % Equity capital On the reference date of 31 December 2016, 59.5 % Sto SE & Co. KGaA’s consolidated statement of its financial position had increased by 11.3 % to EUR 714.2 million, primarily due Current Non-current provisions to the first-time consolidation of the Ströher assets and liabilities 15.5 % Group and the Hesselberg Bygg Group. On 44.2 % the assets side, total non-current assets rose Current provisions and liabilities by 9.1 % to EUR 328.4 million, with EUR 21.5 Cash and cash equiva25.0 % million attributable to the companies that were lents 9.8 % 37 Sto SE & Co. KGaA | Management Report for the Sto Group (IFRS) EUR 70.1 million, only slightly below the previfinancial liabilities grew by EUR 1.5 million to ous year’s value of EUR 70.9 million. EUR 27.8 million. At the 2016 year end, current On the liabilities side, equity totalled EUR borrowings amounted to EUR 13.5 million as 425.2 million at the end of December 2016, compared with EUR 4.2 million on the same taking it to 5.1 % above the value on the 2015 day of the previous year, almost exclusively as reference date. Although profit was lower, a result of first-time consolidation effects. On there was also a lower dividend distribution. the other hand, current income tax liabilities fell Non-controlling interest increased by EUR 6.7 from EUR 4.1 million to EUR 3.0 million. million to EUR 7.4 million (31 December 2015: At the end of December 2016, total borEUR 0.7 million), primarily due to the proportion rowings amounted to EUR 14.6 million after of minority shareholders with a stake in Ströher. EUR 4.5 million in the previous year. Taking into The equity ratio in the Sto Group stood at a account cash and cash equivalents of EUR 70.1 robust 59.5 % on 31 December 2016 (31 Demillion, net financial assets stood at EUR 55.5 cember 2015: 63.0 %). million (31 December 2015: EUR 66.4 million). The total non-current provisions and liabilities increased by 20.9 % from EUR 91.4 million to EUR 110.5 million. The share held by C. Other performance newly consolidated companies in non-current indicators provisions and liabilities amounted to EUR 9.4 million. Post-employment benefit provisions increased by EUR 11.7 million to EUR 93.2 Employees million; around EUR 6.4 million of this was attributable to first-time consolidation. Other At the 2016 year end, the Sto Group had 5,251 non-current provisions increased from EUR 8.4 employees worldwide as compared to 5,032 on million to EUR 13.3 million, while non-current 31 December 2015 (+219 employees; +4.4 %). borrowings grew from EUR 0.3 million to EUR On the reference date, a total of 275 people 1.1 million. Deferred tax liabilities increased were employed at Ströher and 30 at Hesselberg from EUR 0.5 million to EUR 2.1 million. Bygg, which means that, without first-time Meanwhile, current provisions and liabiliconsolidation, there would have been a 1.7 % ties increased by 22.4 % to EUR 178.5 million. decline across the whole Group. In this case, the amount attributable to Ströher On a domestic level, there were 2,895 and Hesselberg was EUR 14.3 million. Other employees (previous year: 2,652) including the current provisions rose by EUR 18.6 million Ströher Group, which is located exclusively in to EUR 44.4 million, primarily as a result of Germany. Meanwhile, the net Sto workforce necessary risk provisioning. This included a abroad experienced a slight reduction from significant individual provision in the area of 2,380 to 2,356 employees in spite of the firstwarranty provisions within sales, relating to time consolidation effect produced by Hesselinsurance refund claims. These were recorded berg Bygg. Targeted restructuring measures in on the balance sheet as gross items in line with regions battling difficult economic conditions accounting requirements. The offsetting entry were contrasted with new appointments in was attributable to other current assets on the countries with medium-term growth prospects. assets side of the balance sheet. Trade payables Year-on-year, the percentage of the Group’s in the Sto Group increased only slightly by EUR workforce employed abroad fell from 47.3 % 2.0 million to EUR 46.4 million, while current to 44.9 %. 38 Management Report for the Sto Group (IFRS) | Sto SE & Co. KGaA Sto Group Number of employees HR strategy We believe that a well-qualified, dedicated workforce represents one of the key com2,800 2,895 petitive advantages that we possess. Our 2,623 2,652 employees make a significant contribution to 2,586 2,400 2,495 2,482 2,356 the long-term success of the Group, are Sto’s 2,356 2,380 2,205 2,000 2,200 2,207 representatives to our customers and business 1,600 partners, and act as brand ambassadors. With this in mind, our HR strategy for 2016 remains 1,200 unchanged, aiming to exploit and develop 800 the potential available within the company as effectively as possible, foster a positive working 400 environment, and position the company as an attractive employer. As part of this, the follow2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 ing will be our main focal points: Germany Non-Germany • Promoting the Sto culture: This culture is based on mutual respect, enables our Dividing these figures into segments, the workforce to play their part in shaping the situation was as follows: Sto had a total of company, and encourages our employees 4,032 employees in Western Europe (including to take responsibility for ambitious targets. Germany), 638 in Northern/Eastern Europe, Using our human resources tools, we conand 581 in America/Asia. tinue to develop the Sto culture in a targeted manner and maintain its core. One step we Sto Group Employees by region took in 2016 was to completely change the format of employee performance reviews. In Germany, we launched a pilot project and Western Europe delivered training to the managers of the (not including Germany) areas involved. 21.7 % • Professional personnel and management development: At the forefront of these Germany measures are customised qualification 55.1 % programmes designed to prepare our workforce for the demands of the future. Northern/Eastern Additionally, we want to reveal the manageEurope 12.2 % ment potential that is present in the Group and take a methodical approach to honing America/Asia our employees’ skills. We offer our manag11.0 % ers attractive promotion opportunities and provide them with support in developing In 2016, Sto’s employees were 43.1 years of their employees. The year under review age on average (previous year: 42.7), and the saw measures such as the creation of a proportion of female employees in the Group succession planning concept for managerial rose from approximately 24 % to around 25 % positions and a new seminar programme throughout the entire workforce. for managers. 39 Sto SE & Co. KGaA | Management Report for the Sto Group (IFRS) • Employer attractiveness and securing receive ongoing training in occupational safety the next generation of employees: Filling and we raise their awareness on the subject. workplace positions with appropriately qualSerious accidents are systematically subjected to ified employees and sustainably promoting an accident analysis and the relevant risk assesstalented young in-house professionals will ment is adapted and revised with this in mind. ensure that Sto achieves growth on a global Our aim is to keep our fluctuation rate scale and represents a proactive means of low across the Group – that is, in the lower combating a shortage of young talent and single-digit range where possible. In Germany, skills in the future. We also aim to establish this is a goal we met in 2016, with a value of attractive general conditions for applicants 3.1 % (previous year: 2.8 %). We calculate the and employees, as well as a solid vocational rate by looking at the number of exits from the training programme. In 2016, one of our company (not including natural ones, such as measures involved implementing a new IT people entering retirement) in relation to the infrastructure with the aim of improving the average number of permanent staff. The figure quality of training. In addition, we designed reveals that Sto is an exceptionally attractive a new Internet presence for presenting Sto employer to work for. In the coming year, we as an employer. The careers page, which believe that the fluctuation rate is set to rise went online in December 2016, represents slightly. an even stronger way of appealing to our target groups. • Creating competitive employment conditions: Through agreements with our employee representatives, we aim to ensure a high level of flexibility for our employees and, at the same time, put efficient cost structures in place. In 2016, we reached a global agreement on a new, variable remuneration system for top-tier managers, allowing us to establish an appropriate remuneration structure within Five Sto employees took part in the KuBe Plus internal the company. We implement forward-looking development programme on inspiring and retaining personnel concepts in order to take account customers, designed for prospective SalesCentre of demographic effects. managers. Working safety Health management A key aim in our personnel policy is to keep the We believe that ensuring the well-being of our number of accidents as low as possible. We aim employees includes establishing an environment to achieve a rate of consistently fewer than ten that promotes health and enhances perforreportable accidents at work and on the way to mance, and we support this through a health work per 1,000 employees each year. In 2016, management programme that is structured the rate at Sto SE & Co. KGaA was 12.9 after around our target groups. Its main focus is 19.8 in the previous year. The accidents that did preventative measures such as healthy eating, occur were primarily the results of inattenimmunisation, sports programmes or courses on tiveness or inappropriate practice. In order to giving up smoking. There are also programmes counteract this, managers and employees alike provided for people with specific medical con40 Management Report for the Sto Group (IFRS) | Sto SE & Co. KGaA ditions. In 2016, we expanded our programme for sales representatives and carried out training in ergonomics and safety. Further education and training activities With the aim of fostering the skills and interests of our workforce as well as preparing them for the requirements they will need to fulfil in the future, here at Sto we offer a comprehensive package of measures focusing on qualifications and further training. During the year under review, one of our strategies was to develop new content on the subject of “Securing managerial skills”. In 2016, the managerial staff development programme, which has been in place for some years now, encompassed five German groups and one international group of new managers. As well as this, special training sessions were held with a focus on quality assurance in production. The programme is set to be expanded in 2017, thanks to the positive At the 2016 year end, we had a total of In 2016, the Sto apprentices and results that have been achieved thus far. 196 trainees and students of cooperative state students at the Weizen location Those responsible for HR development have universities (previous year: 182). In relation to once again presented the compaalso been working on a pilot project relating the total workforce in Germany, this resulted in ny’s varied range of training and to the restructuring of the annual employee a rate of 6.8 %. As a result, Sto far exceeds the education opportunities at the performance reviews. To provide the subsidiar4.9 % training rate of all the businesses workJobs for Future education fair in ies with the right preparation for conducting ing in the chemical industry in Germany. Schwenningen. the new appraisal format – particularly those at To provide prospective employees with the locations abroad – video training sessions have opportunity to gain an in-depth insight into the been formulated and used as part of manageSto Group as an employer, we once again took ment-level training. part in several education fairs and careers days within Germany during 2016. Training at Sto At the start of the 2016/2017 training year, we once again offered young people in Germany Research and development the opportunity to learn one of currently 25 trade and commercial professions within our Intensive and ongoing work in the field of R&D Group – and this time the number of new is one of our Group’s central strategic elements. trainees rose from 70 to 79. This included the By launching innovative solutions on the market Dillenburg training location, where Ströher and consistently enhancing our skills, we are GmbH – which was incorporated into the securing the position we are aiming for as a Sto Group in 2016 – now offers an industrial technology leader in our industrial sector, and ceramist apprenticeship with a focus on process tapping into new markets and groups of cusengineering. tomers. Additionally, our R&D activities ensure 41 Sto SE & Co. KGaA | Management Report for the Sto Group (IFRS) that our products meet certain quality standards safer conditions in the event of a fire. Not only and that reliability of supply is maintained. that, but the crack-bridging and fire-resistant Our Group-wide research and development render system does not require any comproactivities take place predominantly at our Stühmises in the facade design. The StoTherm lingen headquarters. We also have R&D departWood ecological system, featuring wood ments at domestic and non-domestic locations fibre insulation boards, has been optimised that focus on specific product groups, such as specifically with solid construction in mind. Its insulants or paints, or on market-based prodimproved Life Cycle Assessment and refined uct adaptations and developments. In 2016, processing qualities make it a truly winning research and development costs accounted choice. The new StoTherm PIR insulation for EUR 14.3 million (previous year: EUR 13.8 board brings to life the idea of offering a million), corresponding to 1.2 % (previous year: particularly slim and energy-efficient EWIS. This 1.1 %) of consolidated turnover with an impact high-performance insulant does not need to on profit and loss. be anchor-fixed on load-bearing substrates and The most important innovations presented makes it possible to optimise floor space gains in 2016 included new and advanced versions in new buildings. StoAirtherm Control is our of facade insulation systems with significantly new ventilation concept for insulation systems. improved properties, rainscreen cladding facade Designed in cooperation with one of our partsystems, surface variants made from natural ners, the system brings fresh air into thermally stone or brick, a variety of acoustic solutions, insulated buildings and protects the building and interior coatings designed for healthy fabric. living. StoSignature focuses on render design in In the area of EWIS, the recyclable StoSysinternal and external areas. It allows customtain R facade system – named “facade4zeised rendered facades to be created using a roWaste” during its development stage – sophisticated, systematic approach to material enjoyed a particularly warm reception. Sto has combinations and technology – from fine to set new standards with this system, currently rough, with linear or graphic designs, and unrivalled on the market. It is installed using incorporating materials such as natural sand innovative hook and loop grip fixing and can mixtures, shards of glass or silicon carbide. Sto easily be dismantled and most of its elements provides architects and tradesmen with support recycled at the end of its service life. StoSysthrough its comprehensive services at all levels, tain R has been developed in conjunction with as well as a wide range of renders and colours. the University of Graz and, in 2017, is set to At the start of 2017, the StoSilent Modular undergo practical testing on construction sites 300 variable ceiling element from our acousin Germany and Austria. In January 2017, BAU tics range was the recipient of the German – the world’s leading trade fair for architecture, Design Award 2017. This versatile, sound-abmaterials, and systems – saw the system receive sorbing element is easy to install and can even the “Special Award” as part of the Architecture be retrofitted on walls or ceilings in order to + Construction Innovation Prize. This accolade optimise room acoustics – but it was also its is given to products that go to particular lengths design that won over the jury. The very slim to satisfy architects’ requirements. absorbing board, made from polyester fibres, The StoReno Safe retrofitting system has features a thin, visible aluminium profile edge. also had its launch: as well as enabling facades This gives the panel system a great deal of flexto be renovated, this system can help to create ibility in how it is arranged. The product plays a 42 Management Report for the Sto Group (IFRS) | Sto SE & Co. KGaA pivotal role in the StoSilent acoustics portfolio, remained steady. It was necessary to find ways particularly where sound-absorbing modules of compensating for a range of unforeseeaare concerned. The StoSilent portfolio contains ble accidents, such as a fire that affected the an extensive range of high-quality solutions to plant of a major supplier. We dealt with these accommodate all kinds of requirements. issues by temporarily changing over to different In 2016, we expanded our services to include materials, without compromising on quality or the StoPlaner, a web-based application that processing characteristics. provides our specialist customers with support In addition to product innovations and in the process of planning facade insulation further developments, an important element projects involving StoBrick. Working on the of our R&D activities is fundamental research, basis of architects’ plans in the case of new which aims to unlock new technologies. In buildings or photographs of refurbishment 2016, one of the focal points was sustainability. projects, the program calculates the required This included concepts for minimising resource quantities of flat and corner brick slips as well consumption as well as separating and recycling as bonding and pointing mortar. Not only does products or components. it therefore simplify planning, it also helps to To ensure that as much expertise as possible boost efficiency. feeds into our research, our R&D team regularly works with external partners and universities as well. Our activities during the year under review included the Smart-Deck project, funded by the German Federal Ministry of Education and Research and being run jointly between us and the Institute of Building Materials Research and Chair of Building Materials (IBAC) at Aachen University. The goal is to introduce repair or maintenance measures in infrastructure as early as possible with the aim of preventing damage. The StoSilent Modular 300 sound-absorbing ceiling Production and procurement element has received the German Design Award in recognition of its innovative design. The high level of quality of Sto products is based on our extensive expertise in the fields The highly successful and multi-award-winof development and production, which we are ning StoColor Dryonic quick-drying paint, continually expanding. The Sto Group primarily which protects facades against algae and produces coating materials such as renders and fungal infestations without the use of biocides, paints, which are made in specialised producreceived yet another accolade. This came in the tion facilities. The most important input materiform of the Gold Medal awarded at the 2016 als are lime, marble and quartz sands, cement, Budma international construction and architecpigments, silicates, silicones, and water-based ture trade fair. dispersion agents. R&D activities during the year under review In addition, we produce some of the insufocused on raw material supplies for existlation materials we sell, such as EPS boards, ing products and ensuring that availability ourselves. These are mainly used for supply 43 Sto SE & Co. KGaA | Management Report for the Sto Group (IFRS) within the Group. These go a long way towards duction facility at Verotec GmbH in Lauingen/ expanding our technological expertise in the Germany, with initial operation expected in the field of innovative insulants and to reducing summer of 2017. our dependency on suppliers. Production The rate of defective batches is a good meastakes place under the overall responsibility of ure of the efficiency of production facilities. We Innolation GmbH at the locations in Lauingen/ intend to keep this share of production volumes Germany, and in Amilly/France. Moreover, ourwhich cannot be shipped due to defects, to an Swedish subsidiary produces special insulants absolute minimum, with a Group-wide target based on EPS. of no greater than 0.1 %. In the European Sto factories, this quality target has already been International production network met more or less consistently. Our employees At the end of 2016, the Sto Group’s proworldwide are being trained to recognise poduction network comprised 30 facilities in tential weaknesses as early as possible, escalate total, of which 11 were located in Germany them, and eliminate them. and 19 abroad. The factories operated on a demand-based schedule in twoor three-shift Tested quality management operation with mostly good utilisation as in All activities of the Sto Group on the topic of the previous year. With the integration of quality, environment, safety, and energy manthe Hesselberg Bygg and Ströher groups, the agement are conducted as an integrated manproduction areas of floor coatings and cladding agement system in which all key production materials for EWIS and RSC were expanded in facilities are registered and internally audited. 2016. These acquisitions allowed the Sto Group Additionally, the majority of the plants throughto expand its expertise and, with the extrusion out the Group have received external certificaIn April, Verotec GmbH, based in and firing technology for ceramic materials aption according to external standards: by the end Lauingen, started with an extension plied by Ströher, to integrate entirely new fields of 2016, 24 out of a total of 30 locations had project, which includes the new of competence. been tested in accordance with the internaproduction and logistics buildings, The capacities of the Group are modernised tional quality management standard ISO 9001, an office building, and raw-materiand expanded in line with demand. In the year with 15 also receiving ISO 14001 certification als silos. under review, we began to build a new profor their environmental management system. In the area of EPS insulation boards, Sto has added to its existing quality management strategy by implementing advanced measures beyond the standard that has been in place to date. In particular, these are designed to ensure that a high level of product quality is maintained by all the suppliers involved in the production process. Having been audited to the quality and environmental management standards ISO 9001 and 14001 in 2016 and then certified, Innolation GmbH acts as a Groupwide centre of expertise for insulants. Another focus point in the reporting period was the implementation of the Energy Efficiency Directive and the associated introduction 44 Management Report for the Sto Group (IFRS) | Sto SE & Co. KGaA of the ISO 50001 energy management system. On average, delivery costs remained slightly At year end, Sto SE & Co. KGaA, with its below the previous year’s value. One exception headquarters in Stühlingen and all production was the price of titanium dioxide, which saw a facilities and sales centres, StoCretec GmbH, dramatic increase and from the fourth quarter Innolation GmbH, Verotec GmbH, VeroStone onwards was above the previous year’s level. GmbH, and Ströher Produktions GmbH & Co. In total, the 2016 cost of sales percentage in KG were certified. the Sto Group was improved by 1.4 percentage The three factories of the US subsidiary, Sto points compared to 2015. Corp., have been tested in accordance with the The lower price of diesel on average and a local certification “Safety & Health Achievement re-tendering of cargo rates had a positive effect Recognition Program” (SHARP), while the subon the areas of transport and incoming cargo. sidiary in Sweden was tested in accordance with In the wider picture, small savings were hence OHSAS 18001 (Occupational Health & Safety also achieved in logistics. Assessment Series). These programmes certify a high level in terms of health and safety. Verotec Procurement management GmbH received OHRIS (Occupational Health The basis for uninterrupted security of supply at and Risk Management System) certification in all production locations of the Sto Group is prorecognition of its occupational health and safety active procurement management. This is based system – and is thus meeting global standards on many years of close cooperation with our concerning health and safety at work. suppliers. In order to accommodate a growing product portfolio and the ongoing internationProcurement alisation of the Group, efforts were made in The key raw materials sourced by the Sto Group 2016 to strengthen strategic central purchasing include base materials such as sand, cement, and the management of product groups and and lime, as well as speciality chemicals and contracts. The potential for savings at subsidiarcrude oil based raw materials. In the 2016 fiscal ies were also realised, and additional purchasing year, supply across the Group was ensured at all benefits were achieved. times. Only for titanium dioxide was worldwide At our key European Sto subsidiaries, we unprocurement strained from mid-year onwards. dertake a systematic supplier evaluation twice a Environmental conditions, strikes, and other year – according to the criteria of price, quality, external factors had an impact on delivery times commercial cooperation, sustainability, and of individual procured materials, though this supply conditions. The results are weighted in was compensated for by a rolling forecast and different ways and are condensed into a single the adaptation of scheduled delivery times. key figure. The maximum score is 100; with a In addition, a broad, multi-supplier strategy result of 88.5 (previous year: 87.8), Sto SE & combined with strategic provisioning of key Co. KGaA was slightly below its target of 90.0 primary products helped ensure that temporary (previous year: 90.0) in the year under review. limitations and price fluctuations did not have A cornerstone of our procurement strategy any significant impact on Sto SE & Co. KGaA. involves early identification of price fluctuaThe prices of crude oil and, consequently, tions and any supply shortfalls in procurement basic raw materials such as styrene, ethylene, markets. We systematically monitor crucial and propylene dropped once again in the first raw materials, continually check the financial quarter of 2016, before gradually starting to instability of our main suppliers, conduct global crease again from the second quarter onwards. supplier negotiations, and work with long-term 45 Sto SE & Co. KGaA | Management Report for the Sto Group (IFRS) framework agreements wherever possible. In who was already inducted into the committee addition, we ensure that we have a high supply on 22 April 2016, took over the Technology readiness to our customers by means of extendivision from Gerd Stotmeister, who left the sive classification of selling behaviour of individExecutive Board voluntarily at the end of 2016. ual items, through which we can accelerate and The new appointment took effect on 1 Januoptimise the planning and scheduling process. ary 2017. Jan Nissen was previously Head of As part of our stock management system, Materials Management within the Sto Group. target percentages for stock value (average He resigned from his position as representative stock in relation to annual turnover) are agreed of management employees on the Supervisory together with the Sto companies. In the year Board of Sto SE & Co. KGaA on 31 December under review, these ranged between 1.5 % and 2016. 26 %, depending on whether the company was Between the end of the fiscal year and the a production or sales company. The process of point at which this report was signed off, there defining and agreeing on the targets also took were no other events with a significant impact into account the relevant market conditions, on the earnings, financial, and asset situation of such as product launches and changes that the Sto Group. were necessary from a logistics perspective. Through consistent and active stock management and the ongoing strict monitoring of E. Risks and opportunities materials with greater ranges, the relevant tarreport gets were largely met in the year under review. Deviations were analysed and countermeasures Risks and opportunities introduced where necessary with the input of As a company with an international orientation the company concerned. and business activities, Sto SE & Co. KGaA is The internal software system Sto-eProcure, regularly confronted with opportunities and which is used to process around 10,000 orders risks. This means that managing these opporper year in German companies, was fundamentunities and risks in a way that focuses on our tally overhauled and improved in 2016. The new objectives is an integral part of our manageversion of the software has been available since ment of the company, and is crucially important mid-December. The extremely transparent orderto ensuring that the Group follows a positive ing process, with a standardised approval propath over the long term. The risk strategy cedure and a direct interface to the Group-wide developed by STO Management SE, as the SAP system, has proved extremely successful. personally liable partner of Sto SE & Co. KGaA, Over 40 selected catalogues have since become asks for opportunities that arise to be exploited available for quick and effective procurement. with rigour, while undertaking risks only where a commensurate contribution to corporate earnings can be expected and a threat to the D. Events after the company’s existence can be excluded. Generally speaking, we define risks and opportunities as reporting period potential deviations from the planned result. In the Executive Board of STO Management SE, Risk management system which, as the personally liable partner of Sto SE The active management of risks is pursued at & Co. KGaA conducts its business, Jan Nissen, Sto by means of a comprehensive risk manage46 Management Report for the Sto Group (IFRS) | Sto SE & Co. KGaA ment system (RMS), which forms an integral by Sto or Sto products is also covered by part of our business, planning, and control insurance. We bear minor damage ourselves, processes. This system allows us to identify while maintaining a sufficiently high coverage and analyse risks in good time, to analyse the against major claims. Despite careful planning, expected effects on the finance, earnings, and our insurance coverage may turn out to be asset situation, and to have the opportunity to insufficient in isolated cases. For this reason, we implement appropriate countermeasures where regularly review the insurance coverage within necessary. the Group and perform risk analyses in order The most important component of the RMS to reduce the risk of underinsurance. Here, is a detailed reporting system, which records we also seek the advice of an internationally all operational activities in the Group both in operating and experienced industry insurance terms of quantity and quality in accordance broker. with a specified scheme. Through constant monitoring of clearly defined key figures, we Internal control system can identify undesirable developments at an Risk and opportunity management in the early stage and quickly initiate countermeasSto Group is extended to include an internal ures. It is supplemented by a risk manual control system (ICS). This system covers all defining various risk categories, guidelines for principles, procedures, and measures which are assessing risks, and procedural instructions for intended to ensure the effectiveness, economic every Group company. This manual is binding efficiency, and reliability of the Group accountthroughout the Group. These two instruments ing as well as compliance with the relevant are complemented by an annual risk inventory, legal regulations. Additionally, the ICS includes which is used to categorise and document all an internal monitoring system comprising current risks on a timely basis. There are three in-process elements and elements independrisk categories based on a weighted value ent of the process concerned. One example of indicating the level of damage that could be an important in-process measure is the “dual sustained: “low”, “medium”, and “high”. The control principle”, which is supplemented by weighted damage value is calculated on the automated IT process controls. basis of the likelihood of damage occurring The IT-supported accounting process is and the potential consequences for earnings. controlled using the ERP software SAP, which is In terms of the likelihood of damage occurring, implemented in the vast majority of Sto compathere are also three categories: “below 30 %”, nies. It records and processes all issues and data “30 % to 60 %”, and “above 60 %”. The relevant to accounting. Back in 2011, Sto SE & managing director of the respective business Co. KGaA introduced an electronic workflow unit is required to notify the central investment for centralised invoice processing and archiving, controlling department immediately of any new which our subsidiaries have been gradually risks which are identified in the course of the introducing since 2012. Access to various types year. of data is clearly regulated and corresponding Sto works with internationally renowned access restrictions are in place. insurance companies to insure material propA manual containing corporate accounting erty and assets against loss and consequential guidelines, which is regularly updated, provides business interruption caused by unforeseeathe basis for drawing up the annual financial ble events such as fire, explosion, or natural statements in accordance with IFRS, which disasters. Third-party liability damage caused must be included in the consolidated annual 47 Sto SE & Co. KGaA | Management Report for the Sto Group (IFRS) financial statement of the Sto Group. This enof STO Management SE as a representative of sures the uniform implementation of valuation the Group’s parent company. The local auditor is and reporting rules throughout the Group. All also present at this meeting. Additionally, a nabalance sheets as well as income and cash flow tional control committee – such as the “Board statements drawn up by the subsidiaries and of Directors” (BOD) – or the Group auditor may other business fields are audited by the Group participate in these meetings if necessary. accounting department and the central investThe rules of procedure for managing ment controlling department to verify that they directors in the Sto Group include mandatory are correct, complete, and in compliance with rules for correct conduct of business processes, the accounting guidelines. which must be adhered to throughout the The most important monitoring measure inGroup. dependent of the business processes concerned The transparency required for the increaswith regard to the consolidated accounting ingly complex corporate processes is ensured process is auditing of the consolidated annual by the Internal Audit department, which also financial statement of the Sto Group and the makes allowance for the growing compliance incorporated separate financial statements of requirements. As an independent department, the Group companies by an external Group Internal Audit reports directly to the personauditor. This ensures that inventories are taken ally liable partner and to the Chairman of the correctly and that assets and liabilities are asSupervisory Board. sessed, valued, and reported appropriately. The The effectiveness of the RMS and ICS is compulsory measures and accounting records regularly examined in accordance with the additionally provide reliable and traceable relevant statutory requirements – externally by sources of information. Correct accounting our auditor as part of his auditing commission is also ensured at Sto SE & Co. KGaA by the and internally by the Investment Controlling involvement of other auditing bodies such as and Group Accounting departments as well as the tax audit. the Internal Audit department. The Supervisory We also ensure the correctness and reliability Board and, in particular, the Audit Committee of our accounting processes by applying specific receive regular information from the Executive key figure analyses, and through the processing Board of STO Management SE as well as the and control of complex business transactions by auditor and Internal Revision. different persons. The separation of administraDespite every care being taken to prevent tive, implementing, accounting, and approval them, it is not possible to completely rule out functions and the performance of these the occurrence of decisions based on personal functions by multiple persons (“dual control judgements, flawed checks, criminal actions principle”) reduces the attendant risks. by individuals, or other circumstances that The regular management meetings between may impair the effectiveness and reliability of the Group management and the managing the deployed ICS. Additionally, even seamless directors of the subsidiaries are a further imporapplication of the deployed systems cannot fully tant element of the ICS. A meeting focusing on guarantee the correct, complete, and timely the annual financial statements takes place for recording and reporting of facts in the Group each operationally active subsidiary between accounting. representatives of Group accounting or investThe main risks for the Sto Group are prement controlling, the local Management Board, sented below in order of decreasing signifiand, in most cases, the Chief Financial Officer cance: 48 Management Report for the Sto Group (IFRS) | Sto SE & Co. KGaA Dependence on weather conditions rises in interest can result in a decline in buildA major proportion of Sto’s products is used on ing investments. the exterior. This means that their application is dependent on weather influences, someSales risks thing on which Sto can only have a very limited As things currently stand, we do not expect effect. In particular, a long and harsh winter can future sales of Sto products to present any negatively impact on sales at the start or end of significant risks over the long term, as the sales a calendar year, with the effects in some cases potential of facade systems should in principle unable to be fully recouped in the following remain high thanks to a healthy stock of older period due to limited processing capacity. The buildings. Nevertheless, the public debate being same applies to sustained periods of rainfall and held in Germany on the general advantages of hot spells. Conversely, favourable weather confacade insulation systems and their ecological ditions can have a positive effect on business impact, has caused investors and, in particudevelopment. In most cases, weather-related lar, private building owners to adopt a very fluctuations in turnover also have a significant cautious attitude. These feelings of uncertainty impact on earnings. Measured in relation to the have been fuelled further by conflicting and, in profit obtained in a year with average weather some cases, highly exaggerated media reports. conditions, they may, in extreme cases, result Hence, the entire industrial sector faces the risk in upward or downward shifts in consolidated of failing to fully exploit sales potential. As the earnings before interest and taxes (EBIT) by as market leader, Sto would feel an above-average much as EUR 20 million to EUR 30 million. impact of this, which in turn would be reflected in corresponding levels of loss in turnover and Overall economic and industry-specific income. risks Sto, as one of the members, and the Quali­ The Sto Group with its facade systems and tätsgedämmt e.V. association, which has been coatings is dependent on the underlying trends established in conjunction with other German in the construction industry to a substantial family-owned companies, hold the belief that degree. Demand in Germany – which remains it is possible to bolster the confidence of users Sto’s largest individual market – plays an imporand investors in the long term by providing tant role in this. Here, some sales of building them with objective information and clear products respond directly to the general level explanations of the product properties that faof economic activity as well as to general ecocade systems offer. Additionally, this sales risk is nomic and tax-related conditions. A continued mitigated by Sto’s success in regional diversificadownswing in the main German construction and the long-term upward trend in energy tion sector may lead to high levels of surplus prices, which has made facade insulation an capacity and intense competition accompanied appealing prospect from a financial perspective. by strongly declining prices. We counter this The decision-makers’ commitment to adhere economy-based risk mainly through internato the targets of achieving energy savings and tionalisation of our business activities, which CO2 reductions increases the opportunities for ensures regional diversification and makes us launching relevant incentive measures and for more independent of fluctuations in specific achieving better environmental conditions. countries. This also puts us in a position to reSto responds to the conflicting and, in some duce subsidiary risks for the Sto Group resulting cases, highly exaggerated media reports with from market interest rate changes: significant objective, fact-based communication, additional 49 Sto SE & Co. KGaA | Management Report for the Sto Group (IFRS) quality measures as well as a quality manageThere is a price dependency of products ment system that far exceeds the standard level which we produce ourselves and trading goods on the market. that are made of raw materials based on crude We counter the risk of external wall insulaoil; these include paints, renders, and polystytion systems being substituted with competing rene insulation boards, for example, and even products by continually developing the quality, our plastic containers (e.g. Sto pails). The trend safety, environmental compatibility, and effiregarding these basic raw materials usually ciency of our solutions. Inherent system weakcorrelated closely to the price of crude oil. Since nesses can be recognised through the analysis then it has become clear that an independent, of product life cycles, allowing deficiencies that highly volatile trend is emerging – often influarise over time to be detected and eliminated. enced by global supply and demand. In the meContinuing technical progress and the knowldium to long term, the price trend is expected edge derived from this enable Sto to further to make another significant climb. The demand develop and improve products and systems. for numerous speciality chemicals (e.g. titanium On 1 October 2016, all insulants in Germany dioxide), for which there is a dwindling number that contain more than 0.1 % of the flame of available suppliers around the world, is also retardant HBCD were classified as dangerous set to increase over the long term – particularly waste in order to ensure traceability during in emerging and developing countries. disposal. During the practical implementation of In the Sto Group, strong increases in prothis regulation, serious obstacles were quickly curement prices could trigger a significant rise encountered which led to acute bottlenecks in material costs. As it is not usually possible in disposal and therefore to the shut-down of to pass price increases on to customers in the some construction sites. Sto was also indirectly short term, this results in a rise in the cost of affected by these disposal bottlenecks, even sales percentage. Based on our experience, though the company has used exclusively costs of sales can increase by up to 2 percentHBCD-free insulants since mid-2014. Owing to age points, which in turn can result in a decline these problems, the regulation was suspended in earnings of as much as EUR 25 million. for one year starting on 16 December 2016 As well as this, a rise in demand for certain in order to develop a regulation that is legally raw materials and goods could trigger supply compliant and applicable across Germany on a shortages. We confront the risks resulting from practical basis. If regulations are imposed which this through advance procurement as well as unexpectedly lead to obstructions on construcearly contracts with our partners and suppliers. tion sites, this can have a negative impact on Additionally, the Sto areas of procurement, our sales. R&D, and production continually work to optimise the use of materials and make it more Risks in the procurement of raw materials flexible in order to ensure a sustainable supply To manufacture its products, the Sto Group of the relevant raw materials. To this end, aluses raw materials such as lime, marble and ternative materials and suppliers are also taken quartz sands, cement, pigments, silicates, siliinto consideration. cones, and water-based dispersion agents. Risks could arise from the concentration tendencies Warranty-related and legal risks on procurement markets, as well as from politiOngoing research and development activities, cal unrest, additional trade barriers, and natural and the introduction of innovations, are of stradisasters. tegic importance for the Sto Group. Innovations 50 Management Report for the Sto Group (IFRS) | Sto SE & Co. KGaA open up opportunities to develop additional exposed to legal risk in the form of liability asmarkets and buyer groups, and to reinforce the sociated with consultancy services. For example, loyalty of existing customers. In addition, the employees of Sto SE & Co. KGaA provide our analysis of product life cycles contributes to a customers with support in relation to tenders, higher transparency of risk. quotations, technical issues, and building At the same time, however, innovations design details. Sto’s in-house Liability Directive can involve risks. While new Sto products or instructs all employees on how to handle such product versions are only ever launched on the issues both internally and in their dealings with market once they have undergone extensive customers. This clear set of guidelines has led to testing, we are not able to completely rule a marked reduction in liability risks. out the possibility of warranty claims against companies within the Group. We reserve the Financial risks right to react appropriately to recognised risks In times of recession, there is an increased risk through adequate innovations, modification of of default on receivables. To limit the finanmature products, or the adjustment of relevant cial consequences potentially arising from processes. this, a credit management system has been Where the media reports on systems that implemented in the Sto Group. This takes into use EPS insulation boards are concerned, at account the specific conditions prevailing in present the Sto Group does not believe that individual countries. The most important comthere are any significant risks of liability arising ponent of the system in place in Germany is a from past or future activities. It is particularly set of rules containing guidelines for granting worth noting that every case investigated by and monitoring merchandise credits. Consistent Sto has met the thermal conductivity (U-value) application of these rules will allow us to keep specifications stipulated in the German Energy the default quota at a low level even during Saving Ordinance (EnEV) or funding guidelines. difficult economic times. Sto’s comprehensive quality assurance measures As a result of t internationalisation of its ensure that our EPS facade insulation boards business activities, Sto is exposed to currency meet our stringent quality requirements, and risks. We control these risks by means of will continue to do so in the future. currency hedges. Relevant risks from foreign The US insurance industry currently does currency cash flows are analysed, recorded, and not offer any sufficiently comprehensive and reduced by applying suitable hedging measeconomically viable insurance coverage for ures; these processes take place throughout product risks of facade systems and coatings. the Group. Our main focus is on the currencies The effects of potential damages or liability of countries where we do not have producclaims in the USA on the finance and earnings tion equipment, i.e. where regular supply and situation of the Sto Group cannot be assessed cash flows are necessary to maintain business reliably on account of the country’s legal sysoperations. In 2016, this applied to countries tem. In order to further limit the risks inherent such as Switzerland, Canada, and Poland. In in our activities abroad, we engage the services specific cases and where necessary, we perform of external consultants, where necessary, during additional hedging. decision-making procedures. This also applies to As a result of seasonal variability, the detechnical matters. mand for liquidity to finance current business As the range of products we provide is at Sto is subject to significant fluctuations. rounded off by supplementary services, Sto is There is a particular need for cash in the first 51 Sto SE & Co. KGaA | Management Report for the Sto Group (IFRS) few months of a calendar year, whereas cash attacks using the CEO fraud trick, the “bogus inflows dominate during the second half of boss” scam, or ransomware had made it the year. Risks arising from these fluctuations necessary to intensify our training measures for in payment flows are limited at Sto by the potentially affected employees. Within Sto’s available liquid funds. In addition, Sto has at internal communication channels, warnings and its disposal an adequate and contractually recommended courses of action in such cases guaranteed variable credit facility as part of a are published on a regular basis. syndicated loan agreement. In order to reduce our exposure to liquidity Continuity: risks, we also maintain intensive communication The core systems necessary to the Sto Group’s with our banks and operate an active financial operating business, such as SAP and Lotus management system. This includes the use of Notes, are deployed in redundant and fully virderivatives in the form of interest swaps as a tualised form. This ensures maximum continuity means of reducing the risk of changes in interof the systems and the appurtenant services. In est rates in the case of long-term, interest-bear2016, a new, state-of-the-art data centre was ing liabilities to banks. put into operation. This ensures ample separaSto’s treasury activities have been pooled tion between the redundant data centres. The and are handled in an independent departdata on the core systems are backed up daily ment. This measure strengthens the recognition and stored separately. and control of financial resources for internal and external financing as well as financial risk Integrity: management. The key features of a treasury To prevent unauthorised access to the Sto guideline with a modular structure have been Group’s information systems, as far as possible sketched out, with step-by-step expansion and we use technological security systems available implementation of the guideline set to take on the market. Alongside this multiple-step arplace. It aims to define and outline clear rules chitecture, we also counter the risk by adopting and regulations. a restrictive approach to issuing access authorisation and prohibiting the storage of compaIT risks ny-related information in unprotected areas, A global company like Sto can only be mansuch as Internet cloud systems. This is regulated aged with the support of complex IT systems. by a comprehensive IT Policy. What is more, SAP is the central system used within the Sto Sto makes use of a Cyber Security Competence Group. Serious malfunctions like system failCenter, provided by the federal association ures, attacks on networks, and loss or manipVOICE, in order to stay constantly abreast of the ulation of data have the potential to endanger latest knowledge concerning prevailing threats. Sto’s supply readiness and result in declines in turnover. With this in mind, since 2013 we Availability: have been implementing comprehensive cyber The redundant configuration of all core opersecurity measures in order to ensure maximum ational systems and network connections encontinuity, integrity, and availability. We do ables maximum availability for all key business not use Internet-based services (the cloud) for processes. An automated monitoring system critical company information and processes, as serves to continuously monitor system availabilwe believe that they harbour both legal and ity. We counteract risks that might result from a technological risks. The significant increase in difficulty in replacing hardware components or 52 Management Report for the Sto Group (IFRS) | Sto SE & Co. KGaA the inability to update software using a gradual entitled “Production and procurement” and in strategy of modernising infrastructure in the the Sustainability Report in this Annual Report. computing centre and as part of our “Retrofit” programme. In order to meet the requirements Risks concerning processes and added of Industry 4.0 activities in terms of security, value the production areas are partitioned from core Events outside of our control, such as natural systems with special security systems, which disasters or other incidents such as fire, can permit the flow of required data only. heavily compromise production or operating processes in particular. This could in turn lead to Human resources risks bottlenecks or even stoppages, this resulting in The expertise and dedication of Sto employees a deviation from planned production volumes. are amongst the key building blocks of corpoWe counteract such risks by introducing fire rate success. If, in the light of the increasingly precautions, for example, and – when finanstrong competition for professionals and execucially viable – by taking out insurance coverage. tives, we do not succeed in recruiting appropriate personnel, this may have a negative impact Tax-related risks on our future corporate development. This risk As a company operating worldwide, Sto is submay become even more serious in the medium ject to different tax legislation and regulations to long term due to demographic trends, in various countries. Any changes to these particularly in western industrialised countries. tax rules may lead to higher tax expenses and Not only could the pool of talented young payments. In addition, changes to the laws and professionals become smaller, but many people regulations can also have a significant impact may also leave the company for reasons of age on tax demands and liabilities, and on deferred which would entail loss of knowledge. tax assets and liabilities of the company. More­ Sto SE & Co. KGaA implements numerous over, uncertainty in terms of tax in some regions measures to eliminate these risks and position can restrict the company’s ability to exercise its itself as an attractive employer. For example, we own rights. provide extensive career development opportuSto also operates in countries with complex nities as well as excellent further and advanced tax regulations which could be interpreted in training, and we take steps to make achieving various different ways. Any future interpretaa good work-life balance easier. This enables us tion or development of the tax system could to win over new professionals and executives, impact tax liabilities, profitability, and business as well as foster the sense of loyalty felt by activities. those already working for the Sto Group. Sto is subject to regular audits by financial authorities in relation to taxes and levies. Tax Environmental risks and duty-related risks are identified and evaluProduction at Sto takes place in modern, largely ated on an ongoing basis with the support of automated plants. This means that manufacturlocal, external tax specialists. ing processes pose only minor environmental risks. We have also implemented an environOpportunities and risks for business mental management system in the Group development in 2017 which is geared to international standards. Predictions on future business development More information about our environmental proare generally subject to major uncertainty. At tection measures can be found in the section Sto, one of the major factors to account for is 53 Sto SE & Co. KGaA | Management Report for the Sto Group (IFRS) the set of highly volatile general conditions to level. These higher costs could be balanced which the international construction industry out by turnover effects resulting from higher is exposed. Furthermore, our planning is based demand for construction services. Additionally, both on our own forecasts concerning trends opportunities could arise if raw materials prices in currencies that are relevant to Sto, which develop more favourably than assumed in our may also be subject to significant fluctuations, forecasts. and on the assumption that a stable political Energy prices, including in particular the environment will prevail. Should these premises price of crude oil, may lead to risks or opportuprove incorrect, however, then expectations for nities depending on trends going forward, since 2017 may deviate from the actual situation. this will have an impact on the time it takes for Additionally, the risks presented may bring energy investments to pay off. about some short-term influencing factors that The dependency of the construction industry may have either a positive or a negative effect on the weather remains a significant element on Sto’s development. Currently, this includes of uncertainty. Despite technological progress, the ongoing debate surrounding the ecological extreme weather conditions can still prove a impacts, fire protection issues, and efficiency ashindrance for construction activities. Conversely, sociated with facade systems, and surrounding favourable conditions are a possibility during building culture in general, which is continuing the winter months – a time when it is not usuwith no end in sight in the foreseeable future. ally possible to carry out any work on construcWith this in mind, it is not possible to make tion sites – and may have a positive effect on a reliable prediction of how EWIS sales will the turnover and earnings trend. develop. If there are further declines, Sto will be Government funding has shown to have a particularly heavily affected given its position as positive impact on the sale of facade systems. a market-leading company. Therefore, Sto can expect opportunities to The issue of sovereign debt within the euarise when new programmes are launched or rozone continues to have risks associated with existing ones are extended. This does, howit. Fundamental challenges such as huge debt ever, require these incentive measures to be levels and a loss of trust in some countries have designed in a transparent way that is tailored yet to reach a satisfactory conclusion, or any to the relevant target groups. Otherwise, the conclusion at all, meaning that the possibility measures may not have the corresponding of a resurgence in the financial and economic effect and facade product manufacturers may crisis cannot be ruled out altogether. not be compensated for the advance expenses Other uncertain factors are the effects of the they have incurred. Delays in decisions on the austerity measures that local authorities are takpolicies underpinning these measures also exacing in various European nations (in some cases, erbate the risk to which providers are exposed, on a significant scale) as part of fiscal consolias potential building owners may refrain from dation efforts. In the countries affected by this, making investments, resulting in temporary this could result in a decline in construction demand shortfalls. investments in the public sector. Provided that the economy performs better If the world’s economy recovers more than expected in regions where we only make effectively in 2017 than research institutes plans with a great degree of caution, 2017 will have predicted, the demand for raw materials see opportunities for business development. may rise at a disproportionate rate and lead to Targeted internationalisation of our activities non-scheduled price increases at a significant will also open up opportunities for growth, 54 Management Report for the Sto Group (IFRS) | Sto SE & Co. KGaA arising from exploiting new markets as well as The assessment of the overall risk for the Sto from more intensive development in countries Group is carried out using our risk management in which we are already represented. system. Following the assessment of current In the long term, we estimate that opportuand potential future individual risks, and taking nities for Sto will outweigh the risks. The need into account the countermeasures already to install energy efficiency measures within initiated, the Executive Board of the personally buildings in order to reduce CO2-emissions is liable partner STO Management SE and the set to rise. Furthermore, decision-makers in the Supervisory Board have come to the conclusion area of climate protection are now speaking that no assessable risks are discernible at preswith one voice. As we also expect to see prices ent that could have enduring and significant for key fossil fuels begin escalating again in adverse consequences for the asset, earnings, the medium term, we believe that facade and finance situation of the Sto Group. systems will become increasingly appealing from a financial perspective as well. For Sto, as the leading manufacturer of external wall F. Outlook report insulation systems, this means additional sales potential. Global economy The International Monetary Fund holds the Overall risk exposure view that the global economy is set to gain only The risks are listed below in descending order slight traction in 2017. Development across according to their potential impact on earnings the world is battling against exceptionally high and have been categorised on the basis of their levels of uncertainty, particularly as a result of weighted damage value: the political situation in the USA. Additional risks continue to be presented in the form of Risk type Risk non-economic factors such as the situation in category Turkey, unresolved political conflicts, the global refugee problem, and international terrorism. Dependence on weather conditions high Against this backdrop, the IMF is forecasting a 3.4 % growth in the world’s gross domestic Overall economic and product for 2017. It is likely that developing industry-specific risks high and newly industrialised nations, expected to Sales risks high see 4.5 % expansion in total, will once again Risks in the procurement represent the strongest sources of momentum. of raw materials high Both the Chinese economy and India are preWarranty-related and legal risks high dicted to sustain their high growth rates, while another slight upward trend is also expected in Financial risks average Brazil and Russia. IT risks average Where industrialised countries are conHuman resources risks average cerned, the IMF is anticipating a 1.9 % growth Environmental risks low in the gross domestic product. This includes a 2.3 % and 1.6 % gain in the USA and the Risks concerning processes eurozone respectively. However, the German and added value low economy is only expected to grow by 1.5 %, Tax-related risks low according to IMF data. In addition to the moves 55 Sto SE & Co. KGaA | Management Report for the Sto Group (IFRS) in favour of protectionism prevailing worldwide, residential buildings, but also modifications to which could still potentially grow and have a existing infrastructure. However, it is likely that negative impact on the German open economy, residential construction will continue to provide there is also the possibility of German exports the strongest momentum through its predicted suffering as a result of the Brexit vote. increase of 2.8 %, sustained by almost every EU member state. The non-residential construcTrends for the international construction tion sector, meanwhile, is expected to achieve industry growth of 1.4 %. For the most part, the domestic construction In spite of the significantly weaker traction industry is looking at the current year with gained in getting building projects off the a sense of optimism due to the high volume ground in 2016, the US construction industry of orders it has been handling. The Central should continue to experience a boom. The Federation of the German Construction Industry industry outlook produced by Dodge Data & is estimating that turnover in the industry will Analytics in autumn 2016 indicates that 2017 rise by approximately 5 % in 2017. It is likely is expected to see a rise of approximately that the residential construction sector will once 5 % in the number of construction projects again be the strongest performer with growth that are started. It is thought that continued in turnover of 7 %, resulting primarily from a improvements in the labour market situation, continuation in low interest rates, immigration a healthy level of demand for commercial from abroad, and internal migration to major properties, and more financial freedom afforded cities. Additionally, it is currently believed that to US states and municipalities will deliver an new residential construction will be driven additional boost. Building construction is likely forward by the positive nature of general conto remain the principal driver of the industry’s ditions in the economy as a whole. By contrast, development in 2017. Residential buildings the growth rate of renovation measures on and non-residential buildings are expected existing buildings is once again expected to be to contribute equally to the growth, at 8 % much lower. A positive trend is also emerging apiece. In the area of non-residential buildings, in commercial and public-sector construction. it is likely that the upward trend will increasingly This is likely to be less marked than in the new be sustained by the institutional sector in the residential construction sector, however, with future (educational and healthcare buildings, increases of 5 % and 3 % anticipated respecfor example). The positive developments that tively. have been seen in the office construction sector In Europe, EUROCONSTRUCT is forecasting and commercial projects may experience a that 2017 will bring a virtually unchanged rise slight decline. However, a noticeable upturn is in volume of construction compared with the being anticipated for investments in industrial previous year, amounting to 2.1 %. This fabuildings. vourable development is mainly attributable to The construction sector in China appears to the economic revival that has been experienced have now reached its lowest point. Figures from in several European countries, the backlog of GTAI relating to building structures indicate demands that has built up in many locations, that the number of new projects begun has improvements in public financial conditions, low risen for the first time in two years. It is likely interest rates, plus sustained immigration and that the country’s continued urbanisation will, internal migration. The issue of migration and on the whole, remain the key growth driver for immigration requires not only a larger stock of the construction industry. This trend is sparking 56 Management Report for the Sto Group (IFRS) | Sto SE & Co. KGaA increased demand for not just living spaces, fire protection, and design freedom – and this but also public buildings such as schools, means that we are expecting 2017 to bring hospitals, sports facilities, and museums. China a slight increase in business volume within demonstrates a very high level of demand for the area of facades. The political climate is refurbishment activities. The country’s State also continuing to rely on efficient building Council has drawn up a three-year plan that insulation: without improvements in energy effiintends to have a total of 18 million residenciency within the residential construction sector tial units renovated between 2015 and 2017. and existing stocks of buildings, it will not be However, the Chinese economy is generally possible to achieve the binding global climate exposed to some significant risks that also have protection goals agreed at the United Nations an impact on construction activity. According Climate Change Conference in Paris. The high to the IMF, the economy depends too heavily number of older buildings also represents a on stimulus measures from the government. significant source of sales potential for EWIS Weak foreign trade, high levels of debt, and the – and not just in Europe. That said, we cannot threat of trade disputes with the USA also place rule out the possibility of the industrial sector a burden on the stability of what is the world’s experiencing additional negative effects from second-largest economy. the ongoing debate on the use of external wall insulation systems in Germany, and from the Projected performance of the Sto Group failure of politicians so far to implement necesDespite general conditions that are once again sary measures. proving to be a significant challenge and source On the other hand, the Sto Group holds a of uncertainty, the Sto Group believes that the highly competitive position in other product 2017 fiscal year will bring improved business areas besides its core market of EWIS. We see development as compared with the previous potential for Sto products to achieve growth year – assuming normal weather conditions. On in areas such as interiors, acoustic systems, the whole, we are expecting the Group to see and our facade coatings. The brick surfaces a 3 % rise in turnover to around EUR 1,268 manufactured by Ströher GmbH also herald million in 2017. significant opportunities thanks to their variety This forecast is based both on industry of design possibilities. developments in individual regions as deThe first quarter of 2017 marked a positive scribed above and on the expectation that price start to the current reporting period, taking into increases could be enforced on the market account the weather conditions. Consolidated once again as a result of the sudden rise in turnover was above the previous year’s level raw material and procurement prices that has during the first three months of the year. taken place since the start of 2017. We are also As things stand, consolidated earnings currently working on the basis that the euro will before interest and taxes (EBIT) are likely to fall remain stable. between EUR 80 million and EUR 90 million in From a technical perspective, there is sig2017. Earnings before tax (EBT) are expected nificant potential for sales in the area of EWIS to reach between EUR 78 million and EUR 88 based on the objective advantages offered by million. Where the resulting return on sales is energy-related facade insulation. Our systems concerned, we are likely to see a value between meet the very highest demands imposed by 6.2 % and 6.9 %. The ROCE (Return on Capvarious aspects of quality – insulating perforital Employed) figure is set to reach between mance, ecology, cost-effectiveness, durability, 15.8 % and 17.8 %. 57 Sto SE & Co. KGaA | Management Report for the Sto Group (IFRS) In the area of procurement, we believe that ticularly, we are not expecting the current year the world markets may see an increase in deto bring any significant revival in the construcmand – something that will in some cases have tion industry or the competitive situation. In to contend with a lack of availability in chemical Switzerland and Italy, general conditions also production capacity. The price of crude oil is remain unfavourable. In these cases too, we likely to carry on increasing gradually in the hope to win a bigger share of the market by period up to the 2017 year end. We expect to introducing new products and tapping into adsee sustained and, in some cases, significant ditional groups of customers. In Germany, the increases in the price of goods such as titanium increased demand for living space as a result of dioxide, selected speciality chemicals, and EPSfactors such as the influx of refugees may crebased insulants. ate special circumstances that result in positive We have planned a budget of approximately effects on the construction industry. However, EUR 35 million for investments in property, this is being countered by the still-weak deplant, and equipment. These will focus on promand in the German EWIS market, where we jects including the completion of the capacity are currently expecting to see a slightly stagnatexpansion at Verotec GmbH in Lauingen/Gering market size in 2017. many. A new test production facility is being In the Northern/Eastern Europe segment, installed at Innolation GmbH. Additionally, the the predominantly healthy general conditions Group as a whole will continue to pursue the within each of the regions are bringing us long-term measures it has planned as part of opportunities to increase our business volume; the “Retrofit” programme. here, we believe that we will see a net increase Where personnel are concerned, the New in turnover in the middle single-digit percentBalance programme has identified a range of age range. It is not currently possible to estiopportunities for reducing expenses and is set mate with any certainty the extent to which the to implement these at Sto SE & Co. KGaA over ongoing recession in Russia will have a negative the course of 2017. As part of plans to boost impact on bordering regions. turnover, we are expecting slight growth in the As a result of the healthy economic condioverall workforce numbers across the Group tions in the USA, where we are expecting a during 2017, with targeted restructuring meassignificant increase in volume within the conures in regions battling difficult economic construction industry, we are also predicting 2017 ditions contrasting with new appointments in to bring growth in the lower single-digit percountries with medium-term growth prospects. centage range to the America/Asia segment. In Turning to the area of financing, we do Asia, the further drop in growth that has been not currently have any extraordinary measures seen in China is likely to have a negative impact planned for 2017. on the entire economic region, and we are predicting muted demand here as a result. Projected performance of the Sto business segments General statement on future development Assuming that the general economic conditions Over the coming years, Sto will primarily develop as forecast, we expect the Western concentrate on achieving growth and boosting Europe segment to see an increase in turnover profitability across the Group. One aim of the in the lower single-digit percentage range in measures within the New Balance programme, 2017. However, the situation in parts of Europe initiated with this course of action in mind, is is likely to remain a challenge. In France, parto increase turnover in specific product groups 58 Management Report for the Sto Group (IFRS) | Sto SE & Co. KGaA and – in spite of difficult general conditions – to reaching this goal. In pursuing this, we intend invest in areas that in-depth analysis has led us to achieve consistent organic growth and make to view as growth segments. Additionally, we selective acquisitions where the right opportuintend to expend our sales activities systematnities arise. ically and improve the process management measures we have in place within the area of Stühlingen, April 2017 sales. Another aim of the programme is to Sto SE & Co. KGaA optimise costs and drive forward efficiency. represented by STO Management SE As a result of the business development we Executive Board experienced during 2016, which came in below expectations, we set out an additional package of measures during the fourth quarter and are expecting to see the first visible results of this in 2017. Not only do we intend to stay abreast of changes in the market situation, we are also aiming to deliver appropriate action that will help us play an active role in shaping trends with a significant impact on our environment and the direction in which our Group is moving – such as digitisation. This will include introducing new software that is designed to manage and optimise sales and distribution processes throughout the Group. Sto is a leading provider of high-quality facade systems and coatings with an outstanding brand in the industry, an extensive, top-quality product range that takes account of various regional and technical requirements, an excellent position on the international stage, and a strong capacity for innovation. We set the pace of technology in the industrial sector and want to reinforce this position over the long term. The factors that reinforce the success we have had in our corporate development include our extensive sales base and our well-qualified, dedicated workforce. For this reason, we are convinced that the Sto Group will be able to achieve growth in turnover to the EUR 2 billion level over the longer term, and improve profitability in the process. Due to the change in general conditions, we have set 2022 as a deadline for 59 Sto SE & Co. KGaA | The Sto share The Sto share Sto limited preference share data 2016 on the stock markets Share markets across the world are looking back on an eventful year that brought many Ticker symbol STO3 surprises and changes in course. A subdued ISIN DE0007274136 atmosphere prevailed during the first few WKN 727413 months of 2016 as a result of concerns about the development of the Chinese economy, geoShare category Non-voting political tensions, and uncertainty about the preference share USA’s monetary policy. The drop in the price Market segment Regulated market of oil also contributed to significant declines in Level of transparency General Standard share prices the world over. The second quarter of the year brought a general sense of revival, German Securities Exchange albeit one that was briefly and unexpectedly sector Consumer interrupted by the Brexit vote and the resulting German Securities Exchange Home Construction uncertainty. Solid data from the labour market subsector & Furnishings in the USA, more positive results from the Number of Chinese economy, and a continued upswing in limited preference shares 2,538,000 raw material prices provided stability during the second half of the year. Number of non-listed Following November’s presidential election limited ordinary shares 4,320,000 in the USA, the US stock markets in particular Share price trend for 2016 (indexed on 30 December 2015 = 100) 150 Sto limited preference shares 140 DAX DAXsector Construction 130 120 110 100 90 80 70 60 Jan. Feb. March April May June July Aug. Sept. Oct. Nov. Dec. 60 The Sto share | Sto SE & Co. KGaA demonstrated an impressive sprint finish in the million, exclusively as a result of acquisitions final stages of 2016, with the Dow Jones endthat had been factored in for the first time. ing on an all-time high and growing in value Consolidated earnings before interest and taxes by 13.6 % over the course of the year. By con(EBIT) fell in comparison to the previous year trast, the share markets in Europe suffered as a from EUR 81.5 million to EUR 70.3 million, and result of the Italian banking crisis and concerns consolidated net income from EUR 55.7 million over the disintegration of the EU and currency to EUR 45.7 million. Diluted and basic earnings union. On the whole, the EURO STOXX 50 were EUR 7.20 per limited preference share index experienced slight growth of 0.5 %. (previous year: EUR 8.77) and EUR 7.14 per Following significant losses during the limited ordinary share (previous year: EUR 8.71). first few weeks of the year, Germany’s share markets also saw a revival. Mirroring the Sto limited preference share record-breaking performance of the US index, key figures the DAX achieved a successful increase at the Values per share in euros year end and recorded year-on-year growth of 2016 2015 6.9 %. The Construction sector index on the Frankfurt Stock Exchange also experienced Earnings per preference share 7.20 8.77 strong growth and closed trading with a plus Cash flow from current operating of 23.0 % for the whole of the financial year. activities 14.85 12.28 Equity capital 66.17 62.98 Sto share down Dividend payout per The Sto SE & Co. KGaA share started 2016 with preference share a significant downturn, reflecting the market as Dividend 0.31 0.31 a whole; its price then rallied and demonstrated Bonus 3.00 4.56 a predominantly sideways trend – with a few Share price at year end* 93.04 114.80 spikes – as it progressed into the autumn. On Year high* 114.90 162.00 12 August, the value reached its highest point of the year at EUR 114.90, slightly above the level Year low* 86.20 106.05 at the start of the year. Following this, however, PER (31 Dec) 12.92 13.09 the price fell considerably after the turnover PER (high) 15.96 18.47 and results forecast for 2016 as a whole was PER (low) 11.97 12.09 reversed, with the Sto share then recording its Capitalisation of preference shares lowest value of EUR 86.20 on 23 November and on 31 Dec (in EUR millions) 236.1 291.4 closing trading at the year end on EUR 93.04. This equated to a loss of 19.0 % compared with * XETRA closing price the closing price in the previous year. The market capitalisation of 2.538 million Sto The parent company Sto SE & Co. KGaA limited preference shares fell from around EUR reported a reduction in earnings before income 291.4 million to EUR 236.1 million year-on-year taxes, determined in accordance with the Geron 31 December. man Commercial Code (HGB), from EUR 64.6 million in the previous year to EUR 56.5 million Result lower than in previous year and the net profit for the year fell from EUR In 2016, the consolidated turnover of Sto SE 48.2 million to EUR 45.4 million. The person& Co. KGaA grew by 1.2 % to EUR 1,230.7 ally liable shareholder STO Management SE 61 Sto SE & Co. KGaA | The Sto share will therefore propose a dividend distribution of EUR 21,036,780.00 in total at the Annual General Meeting on 14 June 2017. This means that limited preference shareholders will receive an ordinary dividend of EUR 0.31 and a one-off bonus of EUR 3.00 per share. Limited ordinary shareholders will be paid an ordinary dividend of EUR 0.25 as well as a one-off bonus of EUR 3.00 per share. In the previous year, a one-off bonus of EUR 4.56 per share was paid out. Based on the 2016 closing price of EUR 93.04, this will result in a dividend yield per preference share of 3.6 %; on the basis of the 2016 opening price of EUR 114.80 a yield of 2.9 % applies. Trading volume in 2016 During the 2016 fiscal year, the number of Sto SE & Co. KGaA limited preference shares that were traded in the XETRA electronic system of the Frankfurt Stock Exchange amounted to 698,345 in total, compared with 840,324 Sto shares in the previous year. Shareholder structure At the 2016 year end, of the 2.538 million Sto limited preference shares, it is estimated that more than 50 % were in the hands of institutional investors. The remaining shares were free float. The number of non-listed limited ordinary shares remained unaltered at 4.32 million. 90 % of these were held by the Stotmeister family via Stotmeister Beteiligungs GmbH. The remaining 10 % were held by Sto SE & Co. KGaA on the reference date. 62 The Sto share | Sto SE & Co. KGaA 63 Sto SE & Co. KGaA | Sustainability and Corporate Social Responsibility Sustainability and Corporate Social Responsibility A. Company-level activities National and international standards National and international initiatives provide us with important terms of reference on how to Assuming responsibility promote sustainability at Sto. Sustainability has been a major priority for Sto Since 2009, we have been a member of the ever since the company was founded, and is UN Global Compact, a worldwide strategic reflected in every one of its areas and departinitiative for global justice under the auspices of ments – from energy-efficient and resource-efthe United Nations. Global Compact memficient production, to environmental and quality bers are committed to aligning their business management, right through to health manageactivities and strategies with ten universally ment and social responsibility. The set of values acknowledged principles taken from the areas we have established with this in mind is also of human rights, labour standards, environmenexpressed in our corporate mission, “Building tal protection, and the fight against corrupwith conscience.” Our products have made tion. They are also committed to supporting huge contributions to saving energy for more the objectives that go hand in hand with this. than 50 years, helping to protect the climate Compliance with legal and ethical standards as and maintain the value of construction works well as a sound financial policy are integral to as a result, but we also aim to keep producour understanding of good corporate governtion-related consumption and emissions as low ance. All forms of bribery and corruption are as possible. unacceptable for us and will not be tolerated. To ensure that we are ready to face future Further details relating to corporate governchallenges, we continuously follow the developance at Sto can be found in the Corporate ment of megatrends, changes in the market, as Governance Report in this Annual Report. We well as regulations and laws that are relevant to also require our suppliers to accept the Global us. In 2016, we focused our efforts primarily on Compact principles and thus assume certain areas including: minimum obligations. As well as this, in 2016 • Germany’s Climate Action Plan 2050, whose Sto participated in the Peer Learning Group for purpose is to steer the country towards a climate management as part of the German largely greenhouse gas-neutral future network, with the aim of finding more effective • Energy efficiency as a cornerstone of the ways of overcoming the various challenges asmove towards renewable sources of energy sociated with identifying and managing climate and climate protection plans effects along the supply chain. It also gave its • The recycling economy and resource effifinancial support to this initiative. This report ciency as elements of resource, climate, and also represents the annual Communication on environmental protection Progress (COP) required by the Global Compact. • Operational and product-related environmental protection as a means of conserving ecosystems • The health and well-being of employees, applicators, and users • Qualification and training in order to combat a shortage in young talent and skills • Commitment to social issues, signalling solidarity and individual support 64 Sustainability and Corporate Social Responsibility | Sto SE & Co. KGaA Since 2014, Sto has participated in the naand has undertaken to submit a regular written tionwide sustainability initiative Chemie³, which report as well as carry out specific projects. was initiated jointly by the German Chemical Furthermore, various subsidiaries are taking Industry Association (VCI), the Mining, Chempart in sustainability initiatives within their own ical and Energy Industrial Union (IG BCE), and countries and expressing their own sense of the German Federation of Chemical Employers’ responsibility as a result. In Austria, for example, Associations (BAVC). It has developed important Sto Ges.m.b.H. is a member of “respACT guidelines for sustainable development in Ger– austrian business council for sustainable many’s chemical industry and provides various development”, the leading business platform tools for implementing these in practice. for Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) and sustainable development in Austria. At Sto SE & Co. KGaA, we supplement these specifications from external sources with internal corporate regulations, which are designed to accommodate Sto’s specific corporate enviIn 2016, Sto continued to play a major part ronment. First and foremost are the “Principles in the activities carried out by the initiative, of Cooperation and Management within the supported various Chemie³ events with the aim Sto Group”, which we use to translate the of engaging in discussion on examples of best general ideas outlined in our Guiding Principles practice, and performed the “Chemie³ Susinto concrete actions. tainability Check” at various locations. Taking the form of a workshop, this check involves a Dialogue with stakeholders self-evaluation of more than 30 areas of activity Maintaining dialogue with our stakeholders is within the company, an analysis of strengths an exceptionally important part of our sustainaand weaknesses, as well as specific areas of bility efforts. We do this in a variety of formats responsibility and measures that have been dein order to accommodate the many different rived on the basis of this information. An overall subjects that are raised, often in specialist and concept is in development based upon already product-specific areas. These include our own established management processes as well as colloquiums involving architects, planners, company and product-related measures, allowtradesmen, and energy suppliers, as well as ing all Sto’s sustainability activities to be pooled, events held by and with market partners, and a reviewed regularly, and realigned if needed. We range of trade fairs – another area in which susare rolling out this action to the entire Group. tainability is becoming an increasingly pressing Demonstrating the responsibility it takes for issue. Key areas of focus in 2016 were healthy sustainability on a regional level, Sto has for living and living spaces, sustainable construction many years now been involved in the Sustainand sustainable building products, dismantling ability Management Initiative (Wirtschaftsinand recycling of building materials, and cradle-­ itiative Nachhaltigkeit, WIN) of the State of to-cradle design. Baden-Württemberg, and Sto also fosters discussion with non-governsigned the WIN charter in mental organisations (NGOs), specialists, media 2014. Through this, Sto has representatives, and research facilities, creating committed itself to twelve a forum for exchanging views on the latest principles and objectives of sustainability issues in the construction industry sustainable management, and the specific desires and demands being 65 Sto SE & Co. KGaA | Sustainability and Corporate Social Responsibility expressed by our market partners. Events held as sustainable solutions often fails to produce a part of the Chemie³ sustainability initiative, and win-win situation for everyone – for example, a by the action-based associations VCI, IG BCE, product that is both eco-friendly and inexpenand BAVC, have provided additional key sources sive – and so it is necessary to weigh up a range of momentum and opinion. As well as this, the of criteria when coming to a decision. Our Susworking sessions of the German Global Compact tainability Compass helps us create a four-diNetwork and the Sustainability Management mensional mindset encompassing Nature, Initiative (Wirtschaftsinitiative ­Nachhaltigkeit) Economy, Society, and Well-being aspects, and provide crucial opportunities each year to find arrive at the best possible solution as a result. inspiration and share knowledge. This approach gives a pivotal role to not only We are also committed to participating in the values that define the main areas of focus both national and international trade associand the direction in which decisions are made, ations to discuss important issues that affect but also the information that enables analysis different companies, such as new legislation and evaluation to remain as objective as possiand sustainability criteria for building products, ble. Going in this direction is also an expression the harmonisation of product directives, or the of the corporate mission we have drawn up: grading of hazardous materials. For example, “Building with conscience.” Sto is a member of the German Sustainable Building Council (DGNB) e.V. and served on its advisory board for building products in 2016. Also at association level, Sto takes part in the “Sustainable Building” working group of Deutsche Bauchemie e.V. (German Association for Construction Chemical Manufacturers), the “Sustainability” working group of the Verband der deutschen Lackund Druckfarben­ industrie e.V. (German Paint and Printing Ink Industry Association, VdL), the Fachverband Wärmedämm-Verbundsysteme e.V. (Professional Association for External Wall Insulation Systems, FV WDVS), plus the European umbrella associations in each area (such as FEICA, CEPE, and EAE). In Austria, Sto played an active role on the advisory board of Bau-EPD GmbH during 2016. Climate and resource protection Sustainability Compass The Climate Action Plan 2050 launched by the We use our Sustainability Compass in order to German government in November sets out the perform a concrete evaluation of our sustaingeneral conditions that we will need to apply ability activities at company and product level. when planning our future activities in the areas Not only does this tool ensure that all aspects of climate protection as well as energy and of sustainability are taken into consideration, resource efficiency. It contains climate objectives it also provides a source of support during defor individual branches of industry, thus providcision-making processes. We live in a dynamic ing terms of reference that we can use to make and complex world in which the search for decisions in the future. Energy efficiency is a key 66 Sustainability and Corporate Social Responsibility | Sto SE & Co. KGaA focal point in the area of buildings, which are renon-bureaucratic way will aim to collectively sponsible for a good 13 % of total greenhouse boost energy efficiency and reduce energy gas emissions in Germany and therefore have costs. In 2016, Sto SE & Co. KGaA, StoCretec the potential to make a significant contribution GmbH, Innolation GmbH, Verotec GmbH, and towards achieving these climate objectives. VeroStone GmbH registered the “EnergieefThe German government’s aim is to convert fizienz bei Sto” (“Energy Efficiency at Sto”) the country’s stock of buildings to a virtually network via the German Chemical Industry Asclimate-neutral state by 2050. This will require sociation (VCI), with the network then holding the buildings to demonstrate very low energy its first meeting in November. The next stage demands and cover what energy they do need will involve the companies formulating savings primarily using renewable sources. However, the targets for each specific company and a netClimate Action Plan does not go into specific work goal for all the members, working on the detail regarding the kind of energy-related basis of the potential they believe is available. measures that would need to be implemented in Sustainability criteria also played a major part residential and non-residential buildings with the in planning the reception and office building at objectives in mind, nor does it contain informathe Stühlingen-Weizen location, and the buildtion on the level of heat insulation that building ing has been certified as meeting the highest envelopes would be required to provide, what standard of the German Sustainable Building should be included in the mix of energy sources Council (DGNB). Completed in August 2016 and and technologies, or the costs associated with constructed using zero-energy principles, the the measures. Despite this, Sto believes that the new building is in the shape of a Sto pail and plan reinforces the direction in which the comsatisfies even the strictest criteria in the areas of pany is moving, and that its high-quality facade ecology, economy, technology, social aspects, insulation systems will do their part to ensure and well-being. This building is our way of showthat energy demand in buildings drops signifcasing the standards that we are already able to icantly and can then be covered by renewable put into practice – largely with the help of our sources. The new reception and office building own building products. It brings together energy at the Stühlingen-Weizen location in Germany, efficiency, resource conservation, comfort, and which opened in 2016, is impressive evidence of aesthetic appeal in an outstanding fashion. this. It is now necessary for the general condiAs a “Sto building for the 21st century”, it tions and tools to be established in the political revolves around a pioneering energy concept sphere so that the potential for climate protecmade up of several innovative elements. Its tion in buildings can be exploited effectively and basis is a thermally optimised building envelope in a socially responsible manner. that prevents unwanted heat losses. The buildIt is hoped that the newly launched energy ing uses every available resource at the location efficiency networks, a joint initiative of the to generate its energy: water, sun, and waste German government and business commuheat from the data centre on the basement nity, will also contribute towards achieving the level. Meanwhile, the solar panels located on objectives the country has set in its climate and the roof produce 26,400 kWh of energy a year. energy policies – there are plans to establish A turbine powered by water from the nearby approximately 500 networks of this kind in GerEhrenbach river, plus the rainscreen cladding many by the end of 2020. With a time frame facade equipped with photovoltaic panels, are of two to three years, this forum for companies responsible for additional sources of energy. and branches to exchange ideas in a systematic, These play a key role in ensuring the building 67 Sto SE & Co. KGaA | Sustainability and Corporate Social Responsibility remains self-sufficient, particularly in the winter est German Energy Saving Ordinance (EnEV), months when the sun is low and the solar panissued in 2016. The primary energy requireels on the roof are generating little energy. ments fall below the specifications by some More than 80 % of the highly insulated 70 %. Additionally, the building is already in carrier boards in the facade system – which are a position to meet the energy standard that easy to dismantle and recycle – are made from will be coming into force with binding effect recycled glass, and some have been individually for new public buildings in 2019 and for new curved in order to reflect the oval pail shape. private buildings in 2021. Where the KfW Thanks to the interplay between transparent, standard for efficient buildings is concerned, triple-glazed surfaces and opaque, insulated our building falls approximately 60 % below surfaces on the outer building envelope, not the guide values, and it uses three times more only are energy losses kept consistently low, but renewable energy than is legally prescribed employees are also able to enjoy large amounts by the German Renewable Energy Heat Act of daylight without feeling as though they are (EEWärmeG 2011). This is impressive proof sitting in a greenhouse. The building is cooled of how we are dedicating ourselves to our using spring water, while a heat recovery facility “Building with conscience.” mission even in is also integrated into the ventilation system. our own projects. Energy consumption in the lighting is optimised In 2016, we introduced an energy managethrough the use of LEDs as well as a control ment system in line with the global ISO 50001 system that works on the basis of presence and standard in order to provide a methodical tool daylight. for recording, implementing, and tracking all the climate protection and resource conservation activities taking place in the Sto Group. In doing so, we laid the foundations for a continuous improvement process relating to energy efficiency, and also ensured that we were meeting the legal requirements for performing energy audits in accordance with EN 16247-1. At the year end, certification had been granted to the company headquarters in Stühlingen as well as five production locations, 84 sales centres, and five subsidiaries including external warehouses and branch factories. The systems that have been implemented ensure that the use and purchase of renewable sources of energy are constantly monitored, and that energy consumption and the CO2 emissions of our fleet of vehicles are permanently reduced. Energy efficiency measures implemented in buildings In our new office building, modern The results speak for themselves: thanks and investments are also monitored, and we workstations that are flooded with to the building envelope constructed in line encourage employees to play an active role in light create a pleasant working with the passivhaus standard plus the perfectly all our initiatives for saving energy. environment. tuned energy concept, the building consideraIn the medium term, we intend to connect bly exceeds the regulations set out by the latthis Europe-wide energy management system 68 Sustainability and Corporate Social Responsibility | Sto SE & Co. KGaA to a company-wide climate protection strategy Social responsibility that will take into account CO2 emissions in The Bright Hill Pre-School in Windhoek/Namibia particular, as an addition to energy and cliis one of the international projects that Sto has mate data. Austria is playing a leading role in funded for many years. In 2016, two young achieving this, with all of Sto’s locations here Sto employees were given the opportunity to having been certified as “climate protection spend a six-week work placement in this prebusinesses” by the national Climate Alliance school. Children are cared for in the mornings Austria since 2004. The measures that are set and learn English in order to be able to attend to be introduced include energy guidelines for a state school later. The institute also assists minimising CO2 emissions in all company buildold people and those who need help who live ings. In order to compensate for the unavoidin the slums of Windhoek. This is the second able remaining emissions, Sto Ges.m.b.H. has time Sto has offered two young professionals supported a UN-certified climate protection proat the Group the opportunity to gain valuable ject in Vietnam since 2016 by buying emission personal experience abroad. The feedback allowances. As a result, the company is now was extremely positive from all sides: both the officially climate-neutral according to the EU children and the assistants at the Bright Hill emissions registry. Pre-School as well as both of the Sto colleagues In Germany, the purchase of certified were extremely satisfied with the work placegreen electricity from 100 % hydropower has ment. increased as part of the company’s climate proIn 2016, Sto was represented by two teams tection activities. This made it possible to save in the Belgian campaign “1,000 kilometres in 14,860 tonnes of CO2 in 2016 when compared the fight against cancer”. The two teams with with purchases from the German electricity five members each spent four days cycling mix. Additionally, consistent efforts to ensure through Flanders covering 2 x 125 kilometres certified disposal and subsequent recycling of each day. The Sto team raised enough dopaper, paperboard, cardboard, film, plastic, and nations to collect the starting fee of at least tin avoided an additional 3,870 tonnes of CO2 EUR 5,000 needed to participate in the race. equivalent. The campaign raised altogether a record total Logistics and mobility represent another of over EUR 3.5 million in proceeds last year key area of climate protection. We optimise which will be donated to biomedical cancer transport routes, ensure an excellent degree of research. utilisation, promote economical and environSport for a good cause was also the motimentally conscious driving, and deploy modern vating factor of several golf tournaments ormonitoring systems. This allows us to save ganised by Sto and Sto employees in 2016. The kilometres, fuel, and CO2. The make-up of our golf players at the Sto sport club in Germany vehicle fleet also helps us to reduce emissions: celebrated their 20th anniversary by organising at the start of 2016, the average CO2 emisa charity tournament with a raffle raising a sion value generated by our fleet was 117 g/ total of EUR 5,000 which was donated to the km compared with 123 g/km in the previous Special Olympics Hochrhein e.V. association. year and 127 g/km in 2014. This equates to a This association supports people with mental decline of 7.9 % in two years. As well as this, and multiple disabilities. using the DHL GoGreen service has allowed In December 2016, the “Jung und Alt” us to offset 37.8 tonnes of CO2 through cli(“Young and Old”) neighbourhood help assomate-related projects in our logistics activities. ciation in Wutachtal/Germany was delighted 69 Sto SE & Co. KGaA | Sustainability and Corporate Social Responsibility to receive EUR 7,000 of financial support from Sto. This Christmas gift was an offering from employees and guests at the company’s open day on 17 September 2016 where Sto invited everyone to a free lunchtime snack in The training of young employees is becoming return for a small donation to the association. more important than ever, particularly due to The donated proceeds were rounded off by the increasingly more complex future-oriented the Management Board. This “Jung und Alt” training requirements and in view of the lack of association and its team of 50 people invest a skilled workers, a worrying issue which is not total of 8,000 hours a year. Plans are to use this just visible in the trade professions. Since its donation to renovate a former restaurant into foundation in 2005, the non-profit Sto Founa meeting place with barrier-free access and to dation has concentrated on nurturing young purchase a barrier-free, ideally electric commuprofessionals and investing in a sustainable connity bus. The opening of the new zero-energy struction industry which is influential in shaping building at thelocation in Stühlingen/Germany the company’s future. will hence also indirectly contribute to sustainThere is one thing that all activities promoted able mobility. by the Sto Foundation have in common and Numerous Sto employees again volunteered that is the exchange of ideas between generatheir services in 2016. The “Take responsibiltions, trades, and cultures. This is the only way ity!” volunteer days are held every year in June to raise the awareness for responsibility and in Kärnten and Styria where company teams sustainability, and – in more concrete terms – donate their time and services in aid of a good for a type of construction which takes these cause and support social organisations and demands seriously and acts on them. institutes all over Austria. As every year, emSto SE & Co. KGaA supported the Sto ployees from Sto Ges.m.b.H. took part in this Foundation in 2016 by donating a total of EUR initiative in 2016 by painting an activity room 600,000. The total funds available originate for disabled senior citizens at the Diakonie de from subsidies provided by the company’s limited la Tour charitable organisation. The Sto team ordinary shareholders, and from returns on the of five employees transformed a dreary cellar room in the “Elim” building into a vibrant recreation room by applying a StoDesign colour concept. Professional tradesmen, creative young professionals as well as expert knowledge and material were the focus of the Sto school competition in 2016 where trainees from seven vocational schools located throughout Austria are invited to redesign one of their school’s rooms. The prize money of EUR 1,000 and high-quality material are provided by Sto in Austria with the aim of helping young people prepare for their Funded by the Sto Foundation, the “Green.Building. future career while gaining valuable on-the-job Solutions.” summer school project is intended to proexperience. mote talented young people and open up their career perspectives in the construction industry. 70 Sustainability and Corporate Social Responsibility | Sto SE & Co. KGaA Foundation’s capital. The entire funds will be ex“Week of the Environment 2016” to which clusively invested in supporting trainee painters, the President of Germany is traditionally invited plasterers, and architecture students. Hundreds together with the DBU (Deutsche Bundestiftung of young tradesmen and young academic proUmwelt). A total of 170 institutions from busifessionals took part in a variety of events, includness and science were selected from an array ing workshops, seminars, and training programs of applicants to present their award-winning held over several days. Activities ranged from environmental innovations to an expert auditool kits filled with everything young painters ence at the official residence of the President and plasterers need in Germany and Austria, to of Germany on 7 and 8 June 2016. As a special study grants for students of painting technology, recognition and award for innovative achievestudy placements abroad, and the three-week ments, it was appropriate that Sto was invited interdisciplinary summer school “Green.Building. to join this exclusive group of exhibitors to Solutions.” in Vienna/Austria. The Sto Foundashowcase the innovative properties of StoColor tion has opened up a wide range of career perDryonic, a successful product achieved using spectives in the construction industry for many a biomimetic effect. StoColor Dryonic has also talented young men and women. managed to attract attention on a worldwide scale. For example at Budma, the international Awards construction and architecture trade fair held in Following 2014, Sto has, for the second time, Poznań where Sto Poland was represented for been nominated as the gold winner of the Arthe 20th time and was awarded the Budma chitects’ Darling Awards in the EWIS category in 2016 gold medal for StoColor Dryonic. 2016. The award, also given the title “Oscars of the German Construction Industry”, is regarded International success: Sto Poland reas Germany’s largest industry survey and offers ceived the Budma 2016 gold medal around 1,600 architects and planners the opfor StoColor Dryonic at the internaportunity to give their professional judgement tional construction and architecture on over 200 manufacturers and brands from trade fair Budma in Poznań. the construction industry. At the renowned INCA Award in 2016, our UK subsidiary, Sto Ltd, was ranked highly in all four categories in which we entered our products. Among other accolades, we won the prestigious title of “Project of the Year” for the “Monsoon Forest Building” at Chester Zoo. Sto’s achievements in the field of Human Awarded by the “Insulated Render and CladResources (HR) were also rewarded. Sto SEA ding Association” (INCA), the prize is presented in Singapore was delighted that its Managing to projects with innovative and high-quality Director was nominated as a finalist at the 13th facade systems in the UK. The success of Sto Annual HRM Award 2016 for “Best C Suite underlines the company’s strong foothold in Leader”. This prize honours a C level manager this sector and the high quality of its products, (e.g., CEO, CFO), whose heart beats for HR some of which have to withstand extreme and and has particularly excelled in this field with a exceptional requirements. proven track record in rolling out HR strategies We were also represented with our innovaand initiatives, management qualities, and tive facade paint StoColor Dryonic at the 5th the ability to create an environment in which 71 Sto SE & Co. KGaA | Sustainability and Corporate Social Responsibility all employees can concentrate on the company’s priorities and directives. The award was B. Product-level activities presented to Sto SEA as an acknowledgement of its successful further development and Providing solutions consolidation of our HR practises over the last Sto products make a contribution to key asfew years to become the region’s preferred pects of sustainability, such as climate protecemployer. tion, building, energy, and resource efficiency, Sto Ges.m.b.H was praised for its extremely protection and durability, as well as health positive work culture by the international, indeand well-being. All of the raw materials fulfil pendent benchmarking institute “Great Place the functions for their application and are to Work” to be named as the “Best Employer optimised with respect to their impact on the in Carinthia 2016” and the “Best Employer in environment based on the latest technology. Austria 2016”. The Austrian subsidiary received In the production stage, we aim to incorporate this prestigious award following an employee energy-efficient and resource-efficient matesurvey conducted by scientific methods which rials, using renewable raw materials wherever revealed that Sto Ges.m.b.H. was an excellent possible and viable. Furthermore, Sto evaluates example of a great place to work in all the and promotes the potential to dispose of, reuse, “main categories” of credibility, respect, fairand recycle products, taking technological and ness, and pride to belong to a great team. economical feasibility into account. Verotec GmbH was the first company within In general, pricing presents a challenge that the Sto Group to be presented with the OHRIS has to be faced when developing sustainable certificate for protection and safety at the products. Despite a continuously rising demand workplace in 2016. Designing safe and healthy for eco-friendly, healthy, regional, resource-conworking environments for our employees lies serving, and climate-neutral products, there deep in the consciousness of the Sto Group. is usually little willingness to take on the The increasing number of work absences additional costs that may arise from meetthroughout Germany as a result of chronic ing these criteria. However, sustainability is a or psychological illnesses is evidence that this path that can only be followed with everyone strategy is not only relevant in technical and moving in the same direction and with the right production facilities. As a small to medium-­ awareness-raising measures. This means that sized employer with its own in-house produc“Building with conscience.” serves as the ideal tion and management, Verotec GmbH has mission statement in the area of sustainable accepted its responsibility as an employer to products. regularly inform and train its employees, and to instil the necessary values in management situClimate protection ations on all levels. In December 2015, Verotec Sto’s product portfolio makes an active contriGmbH decided to audit its occupational safety bution towards protecting our climate. We have and work safety processes in line with the been developing and selling facade insulation OHRIS system. After a successful audit, the systems for more than 50 years now, and certificate was presented by the Head of the thanks to their efficient building insulation caTrade Supervisory Board of the government of pacity, we have been able to help achieve signifSwabia during a festive ceremony on 2 Februicant savings in heating energy. The Sto systems ary 2016. that have been installed worldwide since 1965 have resulted in savings of around 90 billion 72 Sustainability and Corporate Social Responsibility | Sto SE & Co. KGaA Thermal insulation helps to protect the environment The energy savings from the use of Sto facade insulation systems correspond to around 90 billion litres of heating oil = 28,000 l 4,000 l 250,000,000 l x 22.5 million oil tanks x 3.2 million tanker lorries x 360 oil tankers Between 1965 and 2016, facade insulation systems from Sto played a direct role in saving the barely conceivable volume of 90 billion litres of heating oil. This represents a notable contribution to global climate protection: the facade insulation systems from the Black Forest have cut CO2 emissions by around 280 million tonnes. In 2016 alone, Sto products reduced emissions of this combustion gas by around 16 million tonnes. litres of heating oil up to and including 2016, of CO2. In Austria we have also continued to with the year under review accounting for offset StoColor Sil In and StoColor Climasan for around 5 billion litres of this figure alone. The interiors as well as StoColor Lotusan, StoSilco® resulting reduction in CO2 emissions totalled blue, and the facade system StoTherm Wood 280 million tonnes, including around 16 million via certificates from the ecological region of tonnes in 2016. In this way, Sto makes a signifKaindorf and the associated humus production icant contribution to climate and environment and hence make them climate-neutral. protection. This also improves the living comfort and quality of the relevant buildings. Our direct contribution to climate protection in this way is accompanied by energy-saving measures and the use of regenerative energy during production. Our CO2-neutral products also help us take things one step further. Based on an Environmental Product Declaration, we calculate the CO2 emissions generated during raw material supply and production in the case of these products, and balance the outcomes with emission certificates that benefit a climate protecThe climate-neutral and quick-drying facade paint tion project. In Germany, we have developed StoColor Dryonic can be quickly applied using machine climate-neutral products in 2016; the facade technology. paints StoColor Dryonic and StoColor Solical as well as the render StoSilco® blue. The relevant Resource protection and recycling certificates were used to realise a hydropower management project in Madagascar which was able to comThe majority of Sto products are coatings which pensate for a total volume of over 1,200 tonnes are used to protect buildings. In itself, this is 73 Sto SE & Co. KGaA | Sustainability and Corporate Social Responsibility one of the most important contributions we returning materials to facilities that can recycle make towards sustainability as far as durathem, technical issues in ensuring unmixed bility, weather protection, building preservasorting, plus ecological questions about the tion, and, therefore, resource protection are energy expenditure that is required and financoncerned. Without a protection layer, many of cial questions about the economic efficiency of our buildings would age, deteriorate, and need the processes concerned. As things stand, the refurbishing much more quickly. This is particumaterial quantities that are incurred are so low larly true in the case of coatings that protect and so widely distributed that launching a reconcrete as a construction material or enable cycling system with coverage across our entire concrete buildings to be repaired. Additionoperation would not be efficient, and would ally, coatings that are especially hard-wearing not be an incentive for disposal and recycling help protect the rain screen on buildings from facilities to invest in the necessary systems. external influences – an increasingly important Despite this, Sto is playing an active role in factor to consider given the rising number of various research projects and is developing heavy rainfall and hailstorm occurrences. In approaches to the ways in which the building both areas, we are expecting to see growing materials it manufactures and sells could be demand and are therefore offering products to used in the future. accommodate this. In principle, recycling opportunities should Dismantling a building raises the question rise as materials are able to be separated from of the extent to which its installed resources one another with greater degrees of purity. Our can be fed back into cycles that are as closed innovative facade system StoSystain R cleverly as possible. With many resources becoming pursues this approach, using hook and loop more limited, it is important from both a figrip fixing to optimise the separation of the nancial and ecological perspective. That is why facade system’s main elements so that they can we are now focusing even more attention on be used or recycled after their use. this set of issues and looking at every aspect of a building product’s value chain, with the aim of developing and offering solutions that have been technically, financially, and ecologically optimised – and are sustainable as a result. The cycle begins with the selection of raw materials, proceeds to the manufacture of building products, then to the system build-up, all the way through to options for recycling and energy recovery. There are various approaches available for reusing building products or sending them to recycling facilities, depending on the raw materials in question and what has been used to combine them. One area to which we are devoting our attention is finding applications for treated Grip fixing instead of adhesive – the innovative grip or contaminated materials. There are also fixing technology of the newly developed facade system logistics-related challenges when it comes to StoSystain R makes it possible. 74 Sustainability and Corporate Social Responsibility | Sto SE & Co. KGaA The company is also pursuing other resource other eco-labels. This confirms that the impact protection and recycling optimisation strategies of raw materials or emissions on health and the by selecting raw materials and building eleenvironment is either ruled out altogether or ments that can be fed back into existing cycles reduced to a minimum. as easily as possible. These include glass, various Where environmental protection is contypes of plastic (PP, PET), iron, and aluminium. cerned, we also pay close scrutiny to the use Additionally, packaging materials and non-conof biocides in products designed to protect taminated insulants are re-integrated into the buildings. On our website and in brochures, we manufacturing process or sent for subsequent explain the subject of algae and fungal growth treatment. At our Austrian location in Villach, from different perspectives and provide inforold raw materials are returned to the cycle for mation on aspects worth considering as well as recycling production and processed into our the solutions and alternatives that Sto can offer. own highly recyclable products – with the same In this context, we look at biomimetics and high standards of quality. what significance biodiversity as well as protecSto also provides support for developments in tion of nature and the environment has for our the area of dismantling and recycling processes. products. “Intelligent” renders and paints use The more sophisticated the technology available active principles derived from nature to create for returning and recycling building materials surfaces that not only stay dry and clean in and facade systems is, the easier it is to recycle the long term, but also lack the nutrients that existing products and systems – including those microorganisms need to survive. which have been firmly bonded together. These We consider it vital to engage with these technological methods, such as solvolysis (Creatopics in an open and honest manner, as it Solv® process) are becoming increasingly feasible is not just down to us to determine how the to implement and stand to create and simplify sustainability of our products is interpreted and many more recycling options – with polystyrene evaluated – the opinion and decisions of the insulants forming one key area of focus. public, experts, market partners, and customers also play a role. Comprehensive information on Environmental protection and health our products, with the environment and health Health and well-being represent a significant as its main focal points, aims to provide assismegatrend in today’s society. Where buildings tance in this regard. are concerned, this particularly touches on areas such as thermal and acoustic comfort, Information and transparency indoor air hygiene, and health protection. Sto We provide numerous services that are building products have the potential to make designed to support customers and market a directly positive impact on these subjects partners in their quest for sustainable solutions. of concern. At the same time, the ongoing The expert advice provided directly through analysis and external monitoring to which we Sto employees represents the most important subject our products ensure that applicators element in this. For this reason, we also comand users benefit from excellent quality. Any municate sustainability to our staff in detail and potentially harmful substances are indicated give them intensive training in handling it. This transparently in Safety and Sustainability Data personal approach to delivering information is Sheets as well as Environmental Product Declaaccompanied by eco-labels, product declararations. Many of our products are also certified tions, and product data sheets. There are three in accordance with natureplus®, TÜV SÜD, and different types: 75 Sto SE & Co. KGaA | Sustainability and Corporate Social Responsibility Labels & certificates with Oeko-Tex® standard 100. Several of our Environmental labels and certificates such as products are also natureplus®-certified, meaning The Blue Angel (Der Blaue Engel), TÜV, and nathat they adhere to the very strictest criteria in tureplus® are primarily aimed at end consumers, respect of their composition, substance prohiprivate consumers, and public procurers. For bitions, substance restrictions (emissions), raw building certification systems such as the one material extraction, pre-product manufacturing, provided by the German Sustainable Building production, and processing. Council (DGNB), environmental certificates In Switzerland, we label our interior products are often used as proof of a particularly high with the Swiss eco-label from the Stiftung Farbe ecological standard. Products are evaluated (Paints Foundation). Meanwhile, Sto interior based on various criteria defined by the relevant products in France are consistently labelled issuing authority. with the French VOC label “Émissions dans l’air Sto exclusively uses recognised test seals and intérieur”. seals of quality, and has had a large number of The numerous eco-labels available in the products certified in the areas of thermal insuform of private and public product labels are lation, facade coating, and interiors; in 2016, posing an increasing challenge. In most cases, recertification was carried out where this certithey are only recognised at national level and fication had expired. The natureplus® eco-label can therefore only create added value in a for EWIS confirms not only that the products single market. As a result, products that have efficiently save energy, but also that stricter enalready been labelled would then have to be ergy efficiency requirements are fulfilled in the given eco-labels from a range of different product’s production, environmental properties, regions or their certificates would require and substances in the system components. The additional declarations. This is one of the major Blue Angel (Der Blaue Engel) for EWIS certifies reasons why we have considerably stepped up the use of materials which result in less of an the provision of Sustainability Data Sheets. impact on the environment compared with other products within their product group, and Sustainability Data Sheets which contain no harmful substances requirThe voluntary self-declaration in the form of a ing disposal, demonstrate excellent durability, Sustainability Data Sheets, which we specifiand are installed in accordance with statutory cally developed ourselves, plug gaps that may regulations. be left by existing product information or eco-labels, and meet the increasing demand for concrete, product-specific data on ecological and health-related criteria. Spanning around four pages, they provide all the key information on the DGNB and LEED building certification systems, as well as substances, emissions, and other environmental aspects. Like our Technical Data Sheets and Safety Data Sheets, A large part of our interior product range our Sustainability Data Sheets are available to carries the TÜV seal of quality awarded by TÜV download free of charge or can be posted to SÜD – “low-emission, physiologically harmless, anyone who requests them. Sustainability Data and production monitored” – or has been Sheets in 18 different languages were available tested for harmful substances in accordance for over 300 Sto products by the end of 2016. 76 Sustainability and Corporate Social Responsibility | Sto SE & Co. KGaA Environmental Product Declarations (EPDs) the sustainability of our products. From autumn Environmental Product Declarations or EPDs, 2016, one aspect which dominated political which align with EN 15804, represent a third decisions and discussions was the disposal of building block in our efforts to provide inforHBCD-based expanded polystyrene. The aim of mation about the sustainability of Sto products. our activities was to keep our customers and Central to these declarations is a Life Cycle Asmarket partners regularly informed at all times sessment (LCA) as well as additional information and take an active role in finding a solution about aspects such as the production process, together with politicians, associations, and service life, and provisions for recycling a prodscience partners. uct. EPDs are purely informative and do not Our websites represent the main source of assess a product, but require verification from information about our sustainability activities. an independent third party. This internationally valid document explains numerous building product properties from an environmental perspective and provides useful data for determining a building’s sustainability, a factor that primarily depends on the building material used. We are also increasingly using what are known as sample EPDs for our products. These have been developed in collaboration with various associations (such as Deutsche Bauchemie, VdL, IWM, FV EWIS) on the basis of framework guidelines, with each representing a product group. This removes the need for the time-consuming process of calculating and producing individual, product-specific EPDs for every single manufacturer. As part of its consumer protection efforts, the European Union wishes to promote the provision of individual, product-specific ecological parameters and launch a standardised eco-label on the European market. The European Commission has initiated the Product Environmental Footprint (PEF) to this end. Sto was again part of numerous pilot projects in 2016 aiming to follow its developments from an early stage and provide expert information and feedback. By 2018, the EU is hoping to decide whether these product labels should be placed on the European market – and if so, in what format – as well as the role that existing EPDs in line with EN 15804 will play. Alongside eco-labels and declarations, other issues are under critical discussion concerning 77 Sto SE & Co. KGaA | Sustainability and Corporate Social Responsibility 78 Consolidated annual financial statements of the Sto Group (IFRS) | Sto SE & Co. KGaA Sto SE & Co. KGaA, Stühlingen Consolidated annual financial statements of the Sto Group (IFRS) · Statement of profit and loss · Statement of other comprehensive income · Statement of financial position · Statement of changes in equity · Cash flow statement · Notes 79 Sto SE & Co. KGaA | Consolidated annual financial statements of the Sto Group (IFRS) Sto SE & Co. KGaA, Stühlingen Consolidated statement of profit and loss for 2016 Notes 2016 2015 EUR EUR K 1. Revenue (1) 1,230,673,017.27 1,216,553 2. Changes in product inventories –136,252.14 –1,398 3. Other internally generated assets capitalised (2) 380,216.31 159 Total revenues 1,230,916,981.44 1,215,314 4. Other operating income (3) 25,290,608.25 27,861 5. Cost of material (4) –534,604,900.34 –544,053 6. Personnel expenditure (5) –348,909,939.11 –324,057 7. Other operating expenses (6) –269,736,516.09 –262,489 EBITDA (Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortisation) 102,956,234.15 112,576 8. D epreciation and amortisation of intangible assets as well as property, plant and equipment (7) –32,693,440.41 –31,037 EBIT (Earnings before interest and taxes) 70,262,793.74 81,539 9. Income from investments accounted for using the equity method (8) –349,000.00 0 10. Interest and similar income (9) 996,872.98 1,481 11. Interest and similar expenditure (9) –2,817,264.23 –2,713 12. Other financial income (10) 0.00 936 EBT (Earnings before taxes) 68,093,402.49 81,243 13. Taxes on income and earnings (11) –22,442,716.37 –25,506 EAT (earnings after taxes) 45,650,686.12 55,737 of which: Share of minority interests –358,335.66 –389 Share attributable to the shareholders of Sto SE & Co. KGaA 46,009,021.78 56,126 Earnings per share basic/diluted in EUR Limited ordinary share (12) 7.14 8.71 Limited preference share (12) 7.20 8.77 80 Consolidated annual financial statements of the Sto Group (IFRS) | Sto SE & Co. KGaA Sto SE & Co. KGaA, Stühlingen Consolidated statement of recognised income and expenses 2016 2016 2015 EUR EUR K EAT (earnings after taxes) 45,650,686.12 55,737 Currency translation: Currency translation differences 690,258.66 2,952 Deferred taxes 0.00 0 Currency translation differences after taxes 690,258.66 2,952 Earnings to be reclassified in the statement of profit and loss in future periods 690,258.66 2,952 Actuarial gains or losses: Actuarial gains or losses –2,692,723.94 4,025 Deferred taxes 820,017.40 –1,187 Earnings not to be reclassified in the statement of profit and loss in future periods –1,872,706.54 2,838 Other earnings after taxes –1,182,447.88 5,790 Total comprehensive income after taxes 44,468,238.24 61,527 of which: Share of minority interests –485,819.37 –382 Share attributable to the shareholders of Sto SE & Co. KGaA 44,954,057.61 61,909 For further explanations concerning equity, see Note (21). 81 Sto SE & Co. KGaA | Consolidated annual financial statements of the Sto Group (IFRS) Sto SE & Co. KGaA, Stühlingen Consolidated statement of financial position as at 31 December 2016 Assets Notes 31 Dec 2016 31 Dec 2015 EUR EUR K A. Non-current assets I. Intangible assets (13) 49,822,607.60 39,470 II. Property, plant, and equipment (14) 258,486,114.96 242,525 III. Financial assets accounted for using the equity method (15) 0.00 0 Fixed assets 308,308,722.56 281,995 IV. Non-current trade receivables (17) 1,208,861.30 1,053 V. Non-current income tax receivables 125,780.56 737 VI. Non-current financial assets (18) 392,860.07 191 VII. Other non-current assets (19) 1,067,821.27 1,132 VIII. Deferred tax assets (11) 17,277,311.25 15,819 Other non-current assets 20,072,634.45 18,932 Total non-current assets 328,381,357.01 300,927 B. Current assets I. Inventories (16) 92,541,728.15 71,223 II. Current trade receivables (17) 122,465,255.01 123,025 III. Current income tax receivables 6,207,931.14 6,119 IV. Current financial assets (18) 72,574,658.81 58,762 V. Other current assets (19) 21,973,850.79 11,001 VI. Cash and cash equivalents (20) 70,070,557.44 70,862 Total current assets 385,833,981.34 340,992 Total assets 714,215,338.35 641,919 82 Consolidated annual financial statements of the Sto Group (IFRS) | Sto SE & Co. KGaA Liabilities Notes 31 Dec 2016 31 Dec 2015 EUR EUR K A. Equity I. Subscribed capital (21) 17,556,480.00 17,556 II. Capital reserves (21) 57,803,590.41 57,804 III. Revenue reserves and other reserves (21) 342,488,314.72 328,596 Share attributable to the shareholders of Sto SE & Co. KGaA 417,848,385.13 403,956 IV. Share of minority interests (22) 7,371,916.59 744 Total equity 425,220,301.72 404,700 B. Non-current provisions and liabilities I. Provisions for post-employment benefits and similar liabilities (23) 93,231,223.07 81,477 II. Deferred tax liabilities (11) 2,070,323.14 538 III. Other non-current provisions (24) 13,283,813.30 8,442 IV. Non-current borrowings (25) 1,121,057.71 313 V. Non-current financial liabilities (27) 740,572.69 662 VI. Other non-current liabilities (28) 27,611.43 10 Total non-current provisions and liabilities 110,474,601.34 91,442 C. Current provisions and liabilities I. Other current provisions (24) 44,386,232.02 25,796 II. Current borrowings (25) 13,498,117.56 4,162 III. Trade payables (26) 46,446,149.20 44,355 IV. Current income tax liabilities 3,004,254.26 4,144 V. Current financial liabilities (27) 27,787,798.32 26,265 VI. Other current liabilities (28) 43,397,883.93 41,055 Total current provisions and liabilities 178,520,435.29 145,777 Total debt capital 288,995,036.63 237,219 Total assets 714,215,338.35 641,919 83 Sto SE & Co. KGaA | Consolidated annual financial statements of the Sto Group (IFRS) Sto SE & Co. KGaA, Stühlingen Statement of changes in equity as at 31 December 2016 in EUR K Equity attributable to the shares Subscribed Capital capital reserves Currency Revenue translation Reserve for reserves reserve pensions Status as at 01 January 2015 17,556 57,804 472,636 7,879 –27,465 EAT (earnings after taxes) 0 0 56,126 0 0 Other earnings (after taxes) 0 0 0 2,952 2,831 Income and expenses recognised 0 0 56,126 2,952 2,831 Dividend payout 0 0 –163,308 0 0 Status as at 31 December 2015 17,556 57,804 365,454 10,831 –24,634 Status as at 01 January 2016 17,556 57,804 365,454 10,831 –24,634 EAT (earnings after taxes) 0 0 46,009 0 0 Other earnings (after taxes) 0 0 0 690 –1,746 Income and expenses recognised 0 0 46,009 690 –1,746 Dividend payout 0 0 –31,061 0 0 Minority shares from corporate acquisition 0 0 0 0 0 Status as at 31 December 2016 17,556 57,804 380,402 11,521 –26,380 For further details on equity, see appendix, Note (21) et seq. 84 Consolidated annual financial statements of the Sto Group (IFRS) | Sto SE & Co. KGaA of the parent company Share of Total Total minority equity Reserve for interests cash flow Treasury hedges stock 0 –23,055 505,355 1,126 506,481 0 0 56,126 –389 55,737 0 0 5,783 7 5,790 0 0 61,909 –382 61,527 0 0 –163,308 0 –163,308 0 –23,055 403,956 744 404,700 0 –23,055 403,956 744 404,700 0 0 46,009 –358 45,651 0 0 –1,056 –127 –1,183 0 0 44,953 –485 44,468 0 0 –31,061 0 –31,061 0 0 0 7,114 7,114 0 –23,055 417,848 7,373 425,220 85 Sto SE & Co. KGaA | Consolidated annual financial statements of the Sto Group (IFRS) Sto SE & Co. KGaA, Stühlingen Consolidated cash flow statement for 2016 in EUR K Notes 2016 2015 1. Cash flow from operating activities Earnings before income taxes 68,093 81,243 Depreciation of non-current assets (7) 32,694 31,037 Net profit/loss from disposal of non-current assets –43 –507 Net profit/loss from measurement at equity (8) 349 0 Net interest income/expense and other net finance income/expense (9/10) 1,820 298 Income taxes paid –23,943 –28,969 Change in provisions 23,880 6,112 Change in net current assets –7,459 –10,302 Cash flow from operating activities 95,391 78,912 2. Cash flow from investment activities Investment in property, plant and equipment, and intangible assets (13/14) –37,469 –35,821 Payments for the acquisition of consolidated companies and other business units (less acquired cash and cash equivalents) –10,912 –48 Disbursements for capital increase in joint ventures –349 0 Payments received from other disposal of intangible assets and plant, property and equipment 1,205 1,101 Interest payment received 643 1,751 Disbursements for financial investments –42,215 –30,271 Deposits from financial investments 27,654 107,880 Cash flow from investment activities –61,443 44,592 3. Cash flow from financing activities Taking out of non-current borrowings 500 0 Payments for non-current borrowings (25) –1,283 –576 Payments for current borrowings (25) –28,013 –33,553 Payments received for current borrowings (25) 26,250 30,330 Dividend distribution (12) –31,061 –163,308 Interest payments –998 –726 Cash flow from financing activities –34,605 –167,833 Change in cash and cash equivalents from changes in exchange rates –134 2,174 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of period (20) 70,862 113,017 Change in cash and cash equivalents –791 –42,155 Cash and cash equivalents at the end of period* (20) 70,071 70,862 The cash flow statement is explained in Note (30). *Cash and cash equivalents at the end of period equal the item shown in the balance sheet. 86 Consolidated annual financial statements of the Sto Group (IFRS) | Sto SE & Co. KGaA Sto SE & Co. KGaA, Stühlingen Notes to the consolidated financial statements as at 31 December 2016 General information 2. Basis of preparation Sto SE & Co. KGaA prepared its consolidated 1. Information on the company annual financial statement of the Sto Group for Sto SE & Co. KGaA and its connected, dependthe year 2016 in accordance with the Interent Group companies manufacture and market national Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) products, components, and functional systems as applicable in the European Union and the – energetic and other – which are used in and interpretations issued by the IFRS Interpretations on buildings and consist of material components Committee (IFRIC). The supplemental commerand/or coatings. Services aimed at maintaining cial regulations according to Section 315 a of the value of buildings also form an integral part the HGB were also applied. of the company’s scope of product. All standards and interpretations subject to The only shareholder of the personally liable compulsory application in fiscal 2016 were partner STO Management SE is Stotmeister observed. Beteiligungs GmbH, in which the Stotmeister families have bundled their assigned Sto SE & Improvements to IFRS 2010-2012 Co. KGaA limited ordinary shares. The improvements to IFRS 2010-2012 represent a collective standard which was published in Stotmeister Beteiligungs GmbH is the majority December 2013 and deals with amendments shareholder and ultimate parent company of Sto of various IFRS which are principally applicable SE & Co. KGaA. The address of the registered to the fiscal years beginning on or after 1 Feboffices of Sto SE & Co. KGaA is Ehrenbachstraße ruary 2015. 1, 79780 Stühlingen, Germany. It has been entered in the trade register of the district court • IFRS 2: Clarification of the definition of of Freiburg i. Br./Germany under number HRB ‘vesting condition’ and separate definitions 711236. Sto SE & Co. KGaA is a listed company. for ‘performance condition’ and ‘service Its limited preference shares are listed in the condition’. “Regulated Market” segment for official trading • IFRS 3: Clarification of the classification and on the stock exchange operated by Deutsche measurement of a contingent consideration Börse AG, Frankfurt/Main as well as Börse Stuttin a business combination. The classification gart AG, Stuttgart/Germany. The other Group of the obligation to pay a contingent conmember companies are engaged in the same sideration as a liability or as equity is solely business sector as Sto SE & Co. KGaA. based on the regulations in IAS 32.11. A contingent consideration must be measured The consolidated annual financial statement at fair value with an impact on profit and and management report of Sto SE & Co. KGaA loss. was drawn up on 11 April 2017 by the person• IFRS 8: Information on the aggregation of ally liable partner STO Management SE and will operating segments and reconciliation of the be forwarded to the Supervisory Board of Sto total of the segments’ assets to the entity’s SE & Co. KGaA on 19 April 2017 for approval assets. at the Supervisory Board meeting on 26 April • IFRS 13: Explanation on the amendments to 2017. IFRS 9 with regard to the measurement of 87 Sto SE & Co. KGaA | Consolidated annual financial statements of the Sto Group (IFRS) non-current receivables and liabilities followance for continuing involvement in IFRS 7 in ing the issuing of IFRS 13. order to assess whether the disclosures are • IAS 16: Amendments to the handling of required. The assessment of which servicing accumulated depreciation when applying the contracts constitute continuing involvement revaluation method. must be done retrospectively. However, the • IAS 24: Clarification that an entity providing required disclosures would not need to be key planning, management and supervisory provided for any period beginning before personnel services (external management in the annual period in which the company first key positions) to the reporting entity is a reapplies the amendments. lated party of the reporting entity as defined • IAS 19: The amendment clarifies that market in IAS 24, and adoption of a simplification depth of high quality corporate bonds is regulation regarding disclosures on these assessed based on the currency in which management services through the external the obligation is denominated, rather than entity and the compensation paid to its emthe country where the obligation is located. ployees. When there is no liquid market for high • IAS 38: Amendments to the handling of quality corporate bonds in that currency, accumulated depreciation when applying the government bond rates must be used. This revaluation method. amendment must be applied prospectively. • IAS 34: The amendment clarifies that the Implementation of the improvements of IFRS required interim disclosures must either 2010-2012 does not have substantial effects on be in the interim financial statements or the net assets, financial position and earnings incorporated by cross-reference between the situation of the Group. interim financial statements and wherever they are included within the interim financial Improvements to IFRS 2012-2014 report (e.g., in the management report or These improvements are effective for fiscal risk report). The other information within years beginning on or after 1 January 2016. The the interim financial report must be available improvements include in detail: to users on the same terms as the interim financial statements and at the same time. • IFRS 5: Assets (or disposal groups) are This amendment must be applied retrospecgenerally disposed of either through sale tively. or distribution to owners. The amendment clarifies that changing from one of these Implementation of the improvements of IFRS disposal methods to the other would not be 2012-2014 does not have substantial effects on considered a new plan of disposal, rather it is the net assets, financial position and earnings a continuation of the original plan. There is, situation of the Group. therefore, no interruption of the application of the requirements in IFRS 5. This amendAmendments to IFRS 11: Accounting of acquisiment must be applied prospectively. tions of interests in joint operations • IFRS 7: The amendment clarifies that a serThe amendments to IFRS 11 require that a vicing contract that includes a fee can conjoint operator accounting for the acquisition stitute continuing involvement in a financial of an interest in a joint operation, in which asset. An entity must assess the nature of the the activity of the joint operation constitutes a fee and the arrangement against the guidbusiness, must apply the relevant IFRS 3 princi88 Consolidated annual financial statements of the Sto Group (IFRS) | Sto SE & Co. KGaA ples for business combinations accounting. The maturity) and using either the cost model or amendments also clarify that a previously held revaluation model (after maturity). The amendinterest in a joint operation is not remeasured ments also require that produce that grows on on the acquisition of an additional interest in bearer plants will remain in the scope of IAS the same joint operation while joint control is 41 measured at fair value less costs to sell. For retained. The amendments do not apply when government grants related to bearer plants, the parties sharing joint control, including the IAS 20 Accounting for Government Grants and reporting entity, are under common control of Disclosure of Government Assistance will apply. the same ultimate controlling party. The amendThe amendments are to be applied with a retroments apply to both the acquisition of the initial spective effect and have no effect on the Group interest in a joint operation and the acquisition as it does not possess any bearer plants. of any additional interests in the same joint operation and are to be applied prospectively. Amendment to IAS 27: Equity Method in SepaThese amendments do not have an effect on rate Financial Statements the Group as it had not purchased any shares in The amendments will allow entities to use the a joint operation during the reporting period. equity method to account for investments in subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates in Amendment to IAS 16 and IAS 38: Clarification their separate financial statements. Entities of Acceptable Methods of Depreciation and already applying IFRS and electing to change Amortisation to the equity method in its separate financial The amendments clarify the principle in IAS statements will have to apply that change 16 and IAS 38 that revenue reflects a pattern retrospectively. This amendment does not affect of economic benefits that are generated from the consolidated annual financial statement of operating a business (of which the asset is part) the Group. rather than the economic benefits that are consumed through use of the asset. As a result, Amendment to IAS 1: Disclosure Initiative a revenue-based method cannot be used to The amendments to IAS 1 clarify, rather than depreciate property, plant and equipment and significantly change, existing IAS 1 requiremay only be used in very limited circumstances ments. The amendments clarify: to amortise intangible assets. These amendments are to be applied prospectively and have • The materiality requirements in IAS 1. no effect on the Group as it does not use a • Specific line items in the statement(s) of revenue-based method for the depreciation of profit and loss and OCI and the statement of its non-current assets. financial position may be disaggregated. • Entities have flexibility as to the order in Amendment to IAS 16 and IAS 41: Bearer Plants which they present the notes to financial The amendments change the accounting statements. requirements for biological assets that meet the •  The share of earnings of associates and joint definition of bearer plants. Under the amendventures accounted for using the equity ments, biological assets that meet the definition method must be presented in aggregate as a of bearer plants will no longer be within the single line item, and classified between those scope of IAS 41. Instead, IAS 16 will apply. After items that will or will not be subsequently initial recognition, bearer plants will be measreclassified to profit and loss. ured under IAS 16 at accumulated cost (before 89 Sto SE & Co. KGaA | Consolidated annual financial statements of the Sto Group (IFRS) Furthermore, the amendments clarify the regutrue and fair description of the effects of the lations that apply when additional subtotals are Group’s business transactions as well as of presented in the statement of financial position other events and conditions in accordance with and the statement(s) of profit and loss and OCI. the definitions and criteria contained in the IFRS These amendments do not significantly affect framework for recognising assets, liabilities, the consolidated annual financial statement of revenues and expenses. the Group. The current/non-current distinction is observed IAS 19 Employee benefits in the recognition of assets and liabilities. The This amendment clarifies that market depth of statement of profit and loss was prepared high quality corporate bonds is assessed based using the total cost method. Sto’s fiscal year is on the currency in which the obligation is deidentical to the calendar year. The consolidated nominated, rather than the country where the financial statements were prepared in euros. obligation is located. When there is no liquid market for high quality corporate bonds in that 3. International Financial Reporting currency, government bond rates must be used. Standards (IFRS) and Interpretations (IFRIC) This amendment must be applied prospectively. issued but not yet effective The IASB published the standards and interpreAmendments to IFRS 10, IFRS 12, and IAS 28 tations listed below, whose application was not Investment entities – Applying the Consolidayet mandatory for the fiscal year of 2016. The tion Exception Sto Group does not apply these standards and The amendments are to clarify questions that interpretations ahead of schedule. arose during the application of the exception for investment entities in accordance with IFRS On 24 July 2014 the final version of IFRS 9 Fi10 Consolidated Financial Statements. These nancial Instruments was published by the IASB. amendments are to be applied with a retrospecIFRS 9 replaces all earlier versions of the IFRS 9 tive effect and have no effect on the Group as project as well as IAS 39 Financial Instruments: it does not apply the consolidation exemption Recognition and Measurement. scheme. The standard comprises new rules and reguUnder Section 315a of the German Commerlations on the classification and measurement cial Code, Sto SE & Co. KGaA is required to of financial assets and financial liabilities, as prepare its consolidated financial statements well as on impairment and hedge accounting. in accordance with the standards issued by According to the standard, debt instruments the International Accounting Standards Board – depending on their respective characteristics (IASB) in the form endorsed by the European and taking account the business model – are Union. In addition to the disclosures stipulated to be recognised either at amortised costs of by IFRS, these financial statements also include acquisition or at fair value through profit and disclosures and explanations required by Gerloss. Equity instrument must always be entered man commercial law. in the balance sheet at fair value. However, due to the instrument-specific option which may be The consolidated financial statements provide excercised at the time the financial instrument a true and fair view of the Group’s net assets, is received, fluctuations in value of equity financial and earnings situation. This entails a instruments may be recognised under other 90 Consolidated annual financial statements of the Sto Group (IFRS) | Sto SE & Co. KGaA earnings. In this event, only certain dividend can expect in return for the transfer of goods income will be recognised through profit or services to a customer (the transaction price and loss with respect to equity instruments. according to IFRS 15). The effective date of Exception: financial assets held for trading and recognition is the time of transferring the goods which are required to be measured at fair value and services. through profit and loss. For financial liabilities, the standard provides for existing classification The new standard regarding revenues will and valuation rules to be retained subject to replace all currently existing regulations on revthe following exceptions: impacts of modifying enue recognition in accordance with IFRS. For own credit risk in the case of financial liabilities fiscal years starting on or after 1 January 2018, classified at fair value through profit and loss the standard is to be applied either entirely with are required to be recognised as having no retrospective effect or with a modified retroimpact on profit and loss, and derivative liabilspective effect. Early adoption is permitted. The ities on non-listed equity instruments may no Group intends to apply the new standard on longer be recognised at amortised cost. the mandatory date it comes into effect. The standard was implemented in European In the fiscal year 2016, the Group carried out law on 22 November 2016. It is to be applied a preliminary assessment of IFRS 15, which is for the first time in the fiscal year starting on subject to change in the course of another, 1 January 2018. Early adoption is permitted. more detailed analysis. Furthermore, the Group The standard is to be applied with retrospective takes into consideration the clarifications issued effect except for the accounting of hedges; by the IASB in April 2016 and will keep an eye however, an indication of comparative inforon further developments. The focus of this asmation is not necessary. The regulations for the sessment is to identify performance obligations accounting of hedges is generally to be applied within the Sto Group. The main part of the prospectively apart from a few exceptions. turnover consists of goods deliveries without separately identifiable services. These cannot be The Group intends to apply the new standard separated into different components. Usually on the mandatory date it comes into effect. the service is rendered in full when the goods A preliminary assessment based on currently are delivered and received. In addition, other available information was carried out in the performance obligations were identified which fiscal year 2016. Overall, the Group does not are always to be recognised separately and can expect significant effects on the assessment hence lead to period closing for the turnover. of financial assets and liabilities. This preliminary assessment may change due to further Implementation of IFRS 15 is not expected detailed analyses or additional appropriate and to have substantial effects on the net assets, reliable information provided to the Group in financial position and earnings situation of the the future. Group. IFRS 15 was published in May 2014 and introIFRS 16 was issued in January 2016 and replaces duces a five-step model for accounting reveIAS 17 Leases, IFRIC 4 Determining Whether an nues from contracts with customers. According Arrangement Contains a Lease, SIC-15 Operatto IFRS 15, revenues are recognised in the ing Leases – Incentives, and SIC-27 Evaluating amount of the consideration which a company the Substance of Transactions in the Legal Form 91 Sto SE & Co. KGaA | Consolidated annual financial statements of the Sto Group (IFRS) of a Lease. IFRS 16 defines the principles for of the new standard lessees can either select recognising, measuring, presenting and disclosan approach with full retrospective effect or an ing leases and requires lessees to recognise all approach with a modified retrospective effect. leases according to a single model similar to the The transition regulation of IFRS 16 concedes accounting of financing leases in accordance a certain transitional relief. In 2016, the Group with IAS 17. The new standard contains two started evaluating potential effects of IFRS 16 exceptions from the obligation of accounting on the consolidated annual financial statement recognition for lessees: leases where the underof the Group. An analysis of the existing rentals lying asset has a low value (e.g. PCs), and shortand leases formed the basis for the evaluation. term leases (i.e. leases with a lease term of 12 Based on the knowledge gained thus far, the months or less). Upon lease commencement a Group expects an increase in total assets in the lessee recognises a liability for leasing payments mid-double-digit million euro range and expects (i.e. the lease liability) as well as an asset for the the equity ratio to decline. The leases relevant granted right to use the leased asset during the to IFRS 16 mainly affect buildings and cars. running period of the lease (i.e. a right-of-use asset). Lessees have to recognise the interest exThe following new regulations have not yet pense for the lease liability and the depreciation been approved by the EU and are unlikely to expense for the right-of-use asset separately. have a significant effect on the Sto Group’s net assets, financial position and earnings situation: Furthermore, lessees have to carry out a reassessment of the lease liability in case of certain • Amendments to IAS 7 – Statement of events (e.g. change of the lease term or change Cash Flows (Transparency Initiative) of future leasing payments due to a change to • Amendments to IAS 12 – Recognition of the index or interest rate used for the definition Deferred Tax Assets for Unrealised Losses of the leasing payments). Lessees will generally • Amendments to IFRS 2 – Classification and recognise the amount of the reassessment of Measurement of Share Based Payment the lease liability as adjustment of the right-ofTransactions use asset. IFRS 16 will not significantly affect • Amendments to IFRS 4 – Application of IFRS the lessor’s accounting as compared to the 9 Financial Instruments together with IFRS 4 currently valid IAS 17. Lessors will continue to Insurance Contracts classify all leases in accordance with the clas• IFRIC 22 – Foreign Currency Transactions and sification principles of IAS 17 and differentiate Advance Consideration between two types of leases: operating leases • IAS 40 – Investment Property and finance leases. The Sto Group has not yet started with the As compared to IAS 17, IFRS 16 requires lessees implementation. According to the most recent and lessors to provide more detailed informastatus, these changes will have no substantial tion. effects on the Sto Group’s net assets, financial and earnings situation. IFRS 16 is to be applied for fiscal years beginning on or after 1 January 2019. It has not yet 4. Companies consolidated been implemented in European law. Early adopThe consolidated financial statement includes tion is permitted, but only if the company also Sto SE & Co. KGaA as well as the domestic and applies IFRS 15. For the first-time application non-domestic subsidiaries on which Sto SE & 92 Consolidated annual financial statements of the Sto Group (IFRS) | Sto SE & Co. KGaA Co. KGaA is able to exercise a controlling influopportunities as well as the expected synergies ence as defined in IFRS 10. Control as defined from integrating the Ströher Group into the Sto in IFRS 10 exists when an investor has exposure Group, the difference between the consideraor rights to variable returns from its involvement tion and the net worth identified at fair value is with the investee and has the ability to use its recorded as goodwill. power over the investee to affect the amount of the investee’s returns. The fair values of identifiable assets and liabilities of the Ströher companies at the time of When evaluating the companies consolidated, acquisition are shown in the following: the joint control, or the type of joint control, no significant evaluations or assumptions were in EUR K Fair value as at the time necessary, because the allocation was clear in of acquisition the Sto Group without them. Intangible assets 5,545 With companies where less that 50 % of capital Property, plant, and equipment 11,392 shares are held and which are nevertheless Inventories 12,744 fully consolidated, control is assured via further Trade receivables 3,477 contractual agreements. Other receivables and financial assets 1,758 At the beginning of January 2016, 50.1 % of Cash and cash equivalents 1,580 the equity shares and voting rights of Ströher GmbH, Dillenburg/Germany, were acquired and Total assets 36,496 control therefore obtained. The Ströher Group, Provisions 7,156 with the parent company Ströher GmbH and Trade payables 2,276 the 100 % subsidiaries Ströher Produktions GmbH & Co. KG, Ströher Fliesen GmbH (forBorrowings 9,751 merly Ströher Verwaltungs GmbH), and GEPADI Other liabilities 1,425 Fliesen GmbH – all headquartered in Dillenburg Deferred tax liabilities 1,656 – have therefore been part of the companies consolidated of the Sto Group’s consolidated Total liabilities 22,264 annual financial statement since January 2016. Total identifiable net assets The Ströher Group has made a name for itself at fair value 14,232 with the production of hard-wearing and frostproof outdoor ceramics by means of a state-ofMinority shares evaluated with the the-art extrusion technique. With respect to the value of the identifiable net assets 7,102 application of brick slips on rainscreen cladding facades and external wall insulation systems, Acquired shares evaluated with the value of the identifiable Ströher commands a high degree of profesnet assets 7,130 sional and manufacturing expertise as well as attractive product ranges. By acquiring these Goodwill from corporate acquisition 3,570 shares, the Sto Group is able to improve its position in the facade area and expand its range Transferred consideration 10,700 in a targeted manner. From these turnover 93 Sto SE & Co. KGaA | Consolidated annual financial statements of the Sto Group (IFRS) Sto has decided, as part of the first-time conin EUR K Cash outflow solidation, to value the shares of the non-condue to corporate acquisition trolling shareholders of the Ströher Group with the proportionate value of the net identifiable assets. Transaction costs of corporate acquisition (contained in the In case the option to acquire the remaining cash flow from operating activity) –326 shares is exercised, depending on the turn­ Cash and cash equivalents acquired over situation of the Ströher Group in the years with the subsidiary (contained in the 2015-2020, an adjustment can be made to the cash flows from investment activity) 1,580 consideration which will then be transferred. Outflow of cash and cash equivalents At this point in time, Sto assumes that there (contained in the cash flows from will be no such adjustment in case the option investment activity) –10,700 is exercised. Actual cash outflow due to The total transaction-related costs to the corporate acquisition –9,446 amount of EUR 326 K (EUR 242 K of which in the fiscal year 2015) were directly included in With effect from 1 July 2016, 100 % of the other operating expenses. equity shares and voting rights of Hesselberg Bygg AS, based in Moss/Norway were acquired On the reporting date the Ströher Group was and control therefore obtained. The company employing 275 people (not including trainees). also has subsidiaries in both Sweden and In the fiscal year 2016, the turnover of the subLithuania. 5 % of the shares of the Lithuanian group Ströher amounted to EUR 32,192 K with subsidiary are held by outside shareholders. The a net profit for the year of EUR 39 K. Hesselberg Group with Hesselberg Bygg AS as the parent company has therefore been part of The net amount of the receivables corresponds the companies consolidated of this consolidated to the fair value thereof. Adjustments of EUR financial statement since July 2016. 207 K were taken into account. Hesselberg Bygg AS is one of Norway’s leading The deferred tax liabilities mainly include manufacturers of reaction resin floor coatings effects of accounting for intangible assets as for industrial buildings, public and exterior well as of varying evaluation of property, plant, areas, and for decorative purposes. Hesselberg and equipment under the purchase method. Bygg has many years of manufacturing experImpaired acquired unused tax losses were offset tise and offers appealing ranges especially for against the deferred tax liabilities. the food industry, for outdoor use, and for decorative purposes, thus brilliantly compleCash outflow due to corporate acquisition is as menting Sto’s own floor coating range and follows: knowledge. At the same time, Hesselberg Bygg and its customers will benefit from floor coatings for which Sto already holds the position as technology leader. Sto expects synergy effects to result from the bundling of experience in the areas of development, production, and 94 Consolidated annual financial statements of the Sto Group (IFRS) | Sto SE & Co. KGaA consultation, as well as an increase in attracIn the fiscal year 2016, transaction-related costs tiveness for investors, planners, and tradesto the amount of EUR 124 K were included in men. other operating expenses. The fair values of identifiable assets and liabiliOn the reporting date, the Hesselberg Group ties of the Hesselberg companies at the time of was employing 30 people (not including trainacquisition are shown in the following: ees). In the fiscal year of 2016, the turnover of the subgroup Hesselberg amounted to EUR in EUR K Fair value 10.9 million (consolidated), with a net profit for as at the time of acquisition the year of EUR 0.1 million. In the second half of the year, turnover was at EUR 5.9 million (consolidated), with an annual net loss of Intangible assets 1,462 around EUR 0.1 million. Property, plant, and equipment 41 Inventories 1,866 The net amount of the receivables corresponds to the fair value thereof. Adjustments of EUR Trade receivables 2,369 117 K were taken into account. Other receivables and financial assets 710 Deferred tax assets 144 The deferred tax assets mainly encompass the Cash and cash equivalents 342 effects of the different accounting methods of inventory. The deferred tax liabilities mainly Total assets 6,934 include effects of accounting for intangible assets. Provisions 74 Trade payables 781 Cash outflow due to corporate acquisition is as Borrowings 2,940 follows: Other liabilities 628 in EUR K Cash outflow Deferred tax liabilities 365 due to corporate acquisition Total liabilities 4,788 Transaction costs of corporate Total identifiable net assets at acquisition (contained in the fair value 2,146 cash flow from operating activity) –124 Minority shares evaluated with the Cash and cash equivalents acquired value of the identifiable net assets 12 with the subsidiary (contained in the cash flows from investment activity) 342 Acquired shares evaluated with the value of the identifiable net Outflow of cash and cash equivalents assets 2,134 (contained in the cash flows from investment activity) –2,134 Goodwill from corporate acquisition 0 Actual cash outflow due to Transferred consideration 2,134 corporate acquisition –1,916 95 Sto SE & Co. KGaA | Consolidated annual financial statements of the Sto Group (IFRS) The existing Sto Canada Ltd., Canada, was In case of financial assets measured using the included in the consolidated annual financial equity method we apply the same accounting statement of the Sto Group at the beginning and valuation policies for determining the proof 2016 when it commenced business activiportionate equity as for the fully consolidated ties. companies. With effect from 2 January 2017, Sto Brasil When subsidiaries are consolidated for the first Revestimentos e Participações Ltda., Itaquaque­ time, their assets, liabilities and contingent cetuba/Sao Paulo/Brazil, was merged with liabilities are measured at their fair value as Argamont Revestimentos e Argamassas of the date of acquisition. If the price paid for Ltda., Itaquaquecetuba/ Sao Paulo/Brazil. The the investment exceeds the identified assets company now operates under the name of less the liabilities and contingent liabilities, this Sto Brasil Revestimentos e Fachadas Ltda., difference is accounted for as goodwill. Such Itaquaquecetuba/ Sao Paulo/Brazil. goodwill is submitted to testing at least once a year to determine any impairment in its value The companies consolidated are disclosed in (impairment-only approach). If any impairment Note (39) List of subsidiaries and investments. in the value of the goodwill is established, the corresponding impairment is recognised The following fully-consolidated affiliated Geraccordingly. man companies organised as limited-liability entities or as partnerships satisfied the conditions Receivables and liabilities as well as expenses set out in Section 264 (3) and/or Section 264b and income between consolidated companies of the German Commercial Code and come are netted. Intragroup balances and transacunder the exemption rules: tions are eliminated from Group inventories and assets. Consolidation transactions are subject to • StoCretec GmbH, Kriftel/Germany regulations on deferred taxes. • Innolation GmbH, Lauingen/Germany • Sto BT GmbH, Stühlingen/Germany 6. Presentation of the major accounting • Verotec GmbH, Lauingen/Germany and valuation policies • VeroStone GmbH, Kirchheim/Germany The consolidated financial statements are gen• Gefro Verwaltungs-GmbH & Co. KG, erally prepared according to the cost of acquiStühlingen/Germany sition principle, except for derivatives, financial • Südwest Lacke + Farben GmbH & Co. KG, instruments available for sale as well as assets Böhl-Iggelheim/Germany recognised at fair value through profit and loss. • Ströher Produktions GmbH & Co. KG, In principle, these are measured at their fair Dillenburg/Germany values. The consolidated financial statements are prepared in euros. Unless otherwise indi5. Consolidation principles cated, all values are rounded up or down in line The assets and liabilities of the domestic and with commercial usage to one thousand euros non-domestic companies included in the con(EUR K). solidated financial statements are recognised and measured in accordance with the uniform The major accounting and valuation policies accounting methods applied by the Sto Group. applied in preparing the consolidated financial statements are as follows: 96 Consolidated annual financial statements of the Sto Group (IFRS) | Sto SE & Co. KGaA Currency translation currency principle using the modified closing Monetary items in foreign currency (in particurate method in accordance with IAS 21. lar, cash and cash equivalents, receivables and liabilities) are translated for the first time at the The functional currency is defined as the narate prevailing on the transaction date and then tional currency in question as the companies measured at fair value through profit and loss perform their business independently in finanas at the reference date. Non-monetary items cial, economic and organisational terms. carried at historical cost of acquisition or production and denominated in a foreign currency Assets and liabilities are translated at the closing are reported using the exchange rate at the rate and expenses and income at annual average date of the transaction. rates. Equity capital is translated at historic rates. Any resultant currency translation differences are The financial statements of the consolidated recognised separately under equity and with no companies prepared in a foreign currency are effect on profit and loss until such time as the translated in accordance with the functional subsidiary in question is deconsolidated. Closing rate on Average annual rate EUR 1 = 31 Dec 2016 31 Dec 2015 2016 2015 AED United Arab Emirates 3.8815 4.0004 4.0549 4.0863 BRL Brazil 3.4305 4.3117 3.8561 3.7004 CAD Canada 1.4188 1.5116 1.4659 1.4186 CHF Switzerland 1.0739 1.0835 1.0902 1.0679 CLP Chile 704.9368 772.0222 742.3758 728.2761 CNY People’s Republic of China 7.3202 7.0608 7.3522 6.9733 COP Columbia 3,172.3635 3,457.2616 3,350.4229 3,050.1397 CZK Czech Republic 27.0200 27.0250 27.0340 27.2790 DKK Denmark 7.4344 7.4626 7.4452 7.4587 GBP Great Britain 0.8562 0.7340 0.8195 0.7258 HUF Hungary 311.0200 313.1200 311.4400 310.0000 MXN Mexico 21.7719 18.9145 20.6673 17.6157 MYR Malaysia 4.7287 4.6959 4.5835 4.3373 NOK Norway 9.0863 9.6030 9.2906 8.9496 PAB Panama 1.0568 1.0892 1.1040 1.1125 PLN Poland 4.4240 4.2615 4.3632 4.1841 RUB Russia 63.8111 79.6972 74.1446 68.0720 SEK Sweden 9.5525 9.1895 9.4689 9.3535 SGD Singapore 1.5234 1.5417 1.5275 1.5255 TRY Turkey 3.7072 3.1765 3.3433 3.0255 USD USA 1.0541 1.0887 1.1069 1.1095 97 Sto SE & Co. KGaA | Consolidated annual financial statements of the Sto Group (IFRS) The exchange rates used for currency translaGoodwill is measured at cost of acquisition tion are set out in the following table: on first-time recognition, calculated at the surplus of the consideration transferred and Business combinations the amount of the share without a controlling Business combinations are accounted for using influence on the Group’s assets acquired and the acquisition method. The cost of acquisition liabilities assumed. If such consideration is of a company comprises the sum total of the below the fair value of the net assets of the consideration transferred, measured at fair subsidiary acquired, then the difference is value at the time of acquisition, and of the recognised with an impact on profit and loss in shares without a controlling influence (minorequity. ity interests) on the company acquired. In the course of each corporate merger, the purchaser Intangible assets evaluates the shares of minority interests of Intangible assets with a certain useful life the acquired company, either at fair value or at acquired for good consideration are recogthe corresponding share of the identifiable net nised at acquisition cost. Amortisation expense assets of the company acquired. Costs incurred is calculated on a straight-line basis over the within the scope of the business combination useful life of the assets in the absence of any are recognised as expenses and reported as impairment. This primarily comprises software, administrative costs. which is assumed to have a scheduled useful life of between three and eight years. When the Sto Group acquires a company, it assesses the classification and designation of Non-scheduled depreciation/amortisation are financial assets and liabilities in accordance with explained under Note (7). the contractual terms and conditions, economic circumstances and conditions prevailing at the Goodwill is not subject to systematic amortisatime of acquisition. This also includes a sepation. Instead, it is submitted to annual impairration of derivatives embedded in underlying ment testing (“impairment-only approach”). contracts. In doing so, it is determined whether goodwill has been impaired. Basically, the recoverable In the case of successive corporate acquisitions, amount was determined to be the higher of the equity share previously held by the purthe two amounts of the value in use or the net chaser in the company acquired is remeasured realisable amount of the respective cash-genat fair value at the time of acquisition and the erating unit (CGU) as of 31 December 2016. result is recognised through profit and loss. The This recoverable amount is compared with agreed contingent consideration is recognised the carrying amount of the respective CGU. A at fair value at the time of acquisition. In acCGU is the smallest identifiable group of assets cordance with IAS 39, any subsequent changes that generates cash inflows that are largely to the fair value of a contingent consideration independent of the cash inflows from other representing an asset or a liability are either assets or groups of assets. With the exception recognised in the statement of profit and loss of Sto SE & Co. KGaA the cash-generating units or in other earnings. A contingent consideraidentified for purposes of calculating goodwill tion classified as equity is not remeasured, and are identical to the legal entities. The Sto CGU its settlement at a later date is accounted for in comprises Sto SE & Co. KGaA, Verotec GmbH, equity. and StoCretec GmbH. 98 Consolidated annual financial statements of the Sto Group (IFRS) | Sto SE & Co. KGaA If goodwill is found to be impaired, its value France, which are key CGUs in the sense of is adjusted accordingly. If the impairment is goodwill: greater than the value of the goodwill, the excess amount is distributed across the assets of • Pre-tax interest rates: For CGU Sto: 6.0 % the CGU, and these are value-adjusted. (previous year: 7.7 %), CGU Beissier S.A.S. 7.7 % (previous year: 9.1 %). The starting point for the valuation of the • Perpetual annuity: As in the previous year, CGUs is the 5-year planning of the respective the perpetual annuity is based on a growth legal entities as of 31 December 2016 for the rate of 1.0 % for both CGUs. fiscal years 2017 until 2021. This is based on • Turnover trend: Due to the growing sales poforecasts derived from external estimates of the tential in the markets of the two CGUs, turneconomic situation and market studies as well over growth is assumed to be a single-digit as internal maintenance investment plans. percentage. • Margin changes: Owing to a further surge The growth rates in sales implemented during in procurement prices, slightly declining the detailed planning period are based on exmargins are assumed to apply to the Beissier pectations that the level of demand for thermal S.A.S. CGU and stable margins to apply to insulation in particular will continue to develop the Sto CGU. positively in future. In the light of gross profit margin trends in the years prior to the comVeroStone GmbH, Kirchheim/Germany, was demencement of the budget period, we expect termined to be a cash-generating unit: the smallthe gross profit margins of all CGUs to remain est identifiable unit that generates cash inflows unchanged. The weighted average capital costs and outflows separate from those of other assets. (WACC) before taxes are determined by taking Due to the determination of the value in use, account of a risk-free basic interest rate, the the customer base was depreciated/amortised respective country-specific risk, entrepreneurwith an impact on profit and loss of EUR 179 K. ial risk (market risk premium multiplied by a Pre-tax interest rate was 6.0 %. Crucial factors beta factor calculated on the basis of a peer for this adjustment were a poorer development group analysis), a growth discount in perpetual of the result in 2016 and a worse forecast for the annuity, and borrowing costs. As a matter of detail planning period for the next five years. principle, cash flows are discounted using a uniform Group discount factor – WACC after If the discount rates used for the other imtaxes – which is adjusted to allow for any differpairment tests had been 1.0 % higher, this ences in the base interest rates of the individual would have had no effect on the impairment of countries and in the respective country-specific goodwill. risks. In the year under review, interest rates before taxes were between 5.4 % and 12.1 % The essential goodwill items are listed in Note (previous year: 7.7 % to 12.9 %). As in the pre(13). Goodwill items which were in existence at vious year, the perpetual annuity for all CGUs is the time of the changeover to IFRS are mainbased on a growth rate of 1.0 %. tained in the Group’s currency in accordance with the simplification provided by IFRS 1. The following important parameters were made with regard to the CGUs Sto SE & Co. The sensitivity analysis for the CGUs Sto and KGaA and Beissier S.A.S., La Chapelle la Reine/ Beissier S.A.S., La Chapelle la Reine/France, 99 Sto SE & Co. KGaA | Consolidated annual financial statements of the Sto Group (IFRS) revealed that if the EBIT had been 30 % below The useful life and residual carrying amounts the target for a sustained period, goodwill are audited regularly. would not have been impaired. Maintenance and small repairs are recognised Research and development costs were recogimmediately through profit and loss. nised in the income statement since capitalisation of the development costs in the form of Plants under construction are assigned to propinternally generated intangible assets is not poserty, plant and equipment and are recognised sible under IAS 38 where the requirements have at their procurement and production costs. not been met. The Research and Development Plants under construction are only depreciated department focuses on the identification of once the affected assets become available for alternative materials, products, and procedures. operation. Property, plant, and equipment Borrowing costs Property, plant, and equipment are recognised Borrowing costs capable of being directly asat acquisition or production cost less cumulative signed to the acquisition, construction or mansystematic depreciation and cumulative impairufacture of asset for which a substantial period ment losses. of time is required in order to render the asset ready for its intended use or sale are capitalised The cost of acquiring property, plant, and as part of the cost of acquisition or production equipment comprises the purchase price includof the relevant asset. All other borrowing costs ing import duties and non-refundable purchase are recognised as an expense in the period in taxes as well as any costs directly attributable to which they were incurred. Borrowing costs are bringing the asset to the location and condition interest and other costs incurred by an entity in necessary for it to be capable of operating in connection with taking on debt capital. the manner intended by management. Borrowing costs for all qualified assets for which The production costs for property, plant and construction began on or after 1 January 2009 equipment comprises the expenditure incurred are required to be capitalised. The Group did in utilising goods and services for such a not hold any qualifying assets for the direct alloproduction or manufacture. In addition to the cation of borrowing costs. Only an insignificant directly attributable costs, this also includes a proportion of the annual general borrowing reasonable share of the necessary overheads. costs of the Group cannot be directly allocated. Depreciations are calculated on a straight-line Leases basis using the following estimated useful lives: The assessment as to whether a contract includes a lease is made at the time of conUseful lives tracting on the basis of the economic content of the contract and calls for an evaluation Buildings 20 to 30 years as to whether settlement of the contractual Fixtures to land 8 to 12 years agreement is dependent on the use of a certain Technical equipment and machinery 8 to 10 years asset or certain assets and whether the contract Other plant, operating and business grants a right to use the asset, even if this is not equipment 3 to 10 years explicitly stipulated in the contract. 100 Consolidated annual financial statements of the Sto Group (IFRS) | Sto SE & Co. KGaA Leased property, plant, and equipment satisfy pendently from other assets, for the cash-genthe conditions for classification as finance erating unit in total. leases in accordance with IAS 17 provided that all the risks and opportunities incidental to If the indication that an asset is impaired no ownership of these assets are transferred to longer exists or the impairment has decreased, the Group company in question. In this case, the impairment loss is reversed and the proproperty, plant, and equipment in question are ceeds taken to the statement of profit and recognised at the lower value, which is either loss. No reversal is made to an impairment of the present value from the minimum lease goodwill. payments or the activated fair value of the assets which is depreciated on a straight-line Financial assets accounted for using the basis according to the economic useful life. The equity method obligations arising from future lease payments Financial assets accounted for using the equity are carried as discounted liabilities. method relate to a joint venture. In case of a joint venture there is a contractual agreement In the case of operating leases, the lease payregarding the joint control of the company. ments are recognised directly in the statement Using the equity method, the shares are of profit and loss on a straight-line basis for the accounted for at their cost of acquisition the duration of the lease. first time. The carrying amount is increased or decreased annually to recognise the share of Impairment of assets after-tax profits or losses, distributed dividends, Property, plant and equipment, and intangible any impairments and other changes to their assets are tested for impairment whenever any equity. events or changes in circumstances indicate that their carrying amount may no longer be Using the equity method, the Group deterrecoverable. If, in the case of property, plant mines whether it is necessary to recognise an and equipment, and intangible assets initially additional impairment for the shares of the recognised at acquisition or production cost, Group in associates measured according to the the carrying amount exceeds its recoverable equity method. At each balance sheet date, the amount, the difference is recognised as an Group determines whether there are objective impairment with an impact on profit and loss. indications as to whether the share of an asThe recoverable amount is the higher amount sociate valued according to the equity method of fair value less cost of sale and the value in might have been impaired. If this is the case, use. then the difference between the recoverable amount and the carrying amount of the share The fair value less cost of sale is the amount is recognised as an impairment in profit and which can be recovered from the sale of the loss. asset under normal market conditions, whereas the value in use is the present value of the Financial instruments estimated future cash flows expected from the Financial instruments are defined in accordcontinued use of an asset and its disposal at the ance with IAS 39 as contracts that give rise to end of its useful life. The recoverable amount a financial asset of one entity and a financial is either estimated for an individual asset or, liability or equity instrument of another entity. if it does not generate any cash flows inde101 Sto SE & Co. KGaA | Consolidated annual financial statements of the Sto Group (IFRS) IAS 39 defines the following different catevalued and classified at fair value through profit gories for financial assets: and loss by exercising the fair value option. • Financial instruments measured at fair value Held-to-maturity financial assets through profit and loss Held-to-maturity instruments are non-deriva(Fair Value through Profit or Loss = FVtPoL) tive financial assets with fixed or determinable • Held-to-maturity financial assets payments and a fixed maturity that the Group (Held-to-Maturity Investments = HtM) has the intention and ability to hold to maturity • Loans and receivables and there is an active market for such assets. (Loans and receivables = LaR) After initial recognition, held-to-maturity finan• Available-for-sale financial assets cial assets are measured at amortised costs of (Available-for-Sale = AfS) acquisition using the effective interest method. Gains and losses are reported in the financial Financial assets measured at fair value statement for the period in which the assets through profit and loss are derecognised or impaired, and through the The group of financial assets measured at fair amortisation process. value through profit and loss comprise assets classified as held for sale as well as financial Loans and receivables assets which are initially recognised at their fair Loans and receivables are non-derivative value. financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active Financial assets are classified as held for sale market. After initial recognition, loans and if they are acquired for the purpose of being receivables are measured at amortised costs of resold in the near future. Derivatives are also acquisition using the effective interest method classified as being held for sale except for net of any impairment losses. Gains and losses those which are designated as hedges and are are reported in the financial statement for the effective as such. Gains or losses from financial period in which the loans and receivables are assets which are classified as held for sale are derecognised or impaired. recognised through profit and loss. In the case of current receivables and liabilities, Financial assets to be measured at fair value amortised costs of acquisition equal the nomithrough profit and loss are analysed to establish nal or settlement amount in principle. whether the intention to sell them in the near future still is appropriate. Available-for-sale financial assets Available-for-sale financial assets are non-deFor financial assets that cannot be traded on rivative financial assets that are designated as account of inactive markets and the intention available for sale and not allocated to any of to sell them in the foreseeable future is abanthe three above-mentioned categories. After doned, management may decide to reclassify initial recognition, they are measured at their such financial assets in certain circumstances. fair value. Unrealised gains and losses are recThe reclassification to loans and receivables, to ognised directly within equity. If such a financial available-for-sale or to held-to-maturity assets asset is derecognised or impaired, the cumuladepends on the nature of the asset. This evaluative gains or losses hitherto recognised within tion has no impact on financial assets that were equity are recognised through profit and loss. 102 Consolidated annual financial statements of the Sto Group (IFRS) | Sto SE & Co. KGaA The Group accounts for financial instruments Financial liabilities measured at amortised at amortised costs of acquisition or at fair cost value. The financial liabilities measured at amortised acquisition costs are to be measured at fair Financial assets or parts thereof are derecvalue during initial assessment. These values ognised when the Group loses control over are subsequently calculated using the effective the contractual rights arising from the assets. interest method less adjustments, repayments, Exceptions from this are passed-on changes in and discounts or premiums on acquisition, ownerships; these are cancelled only once they including transaction costs and fees forming an are settled by the acceptor. integral part of the effective interest rate. Financial assets are assigned to one of the Gains or losses are only recognised through above categories upon initial recognition. profit and loss upon derecognition. Where permissible and necessary, they are reclassified at the end of the accounting period. A financial liability is derecognised if the obligation underlying the liability is fulfilled, termiAll purchases and sales of financial assets in nated or extinguished. accordance with normal market conditions are recorded on the day on which the Sto Group If an existing financial liability is exchanged by assumes the obligation to buy or sell the asset. some other financial liability of the same lender These transactions are in accordance with norsubject to substantially different contractual mal market conditions if delivery of the assets terms and conditions, or if the terms and contakes place within a period defined by market ditions of an existing liability are significantly regulations or conventions. changed, then such an exchange or modification will be treated as derecognition of the origFinancial liabilities are categorised as follows: inal liability and recognition of a new liability. • Financial liabilities at fair value through profit The difference between the respective carrying and loss (Financial Liabilities Held for Trading amounts is recognised through profit and loss. = FLHfT) • Financial liabilities measured at amortised Inventories cost (FLAC) Inventories are recorded at the lower of acquisition or production cost and the net realisable Financial liabilities at fair value through amount. The net realisable amount is the estiprofit and loss mated selling price in the ordinary course of busiFinancial liabilities at fair value through profit ness less the estimated costs of completion and and loss comprise financial liabilities held for the estimated costs necessary to make the sale. trading as well as other financial liabilities which are initially recognised as financial liabilities at Costs incurred in bringing the inventories to fair value through profit and loss. their present location and condition are recognised as follows: The Group has so far not made use of the option to initially recognise financial liabilities • Raw materials, processing aids, operating at fair value through profit and loss. materials, and trading goods – Weighted average price 103 Sto SE & Co. KGaA | Consolidated annual financial statements of the Sto Group (IFRS) • Finished assets and assets under construction The fair value of currency forwards is calculated – Direct labour and material costs as well on the basis of the current forward exchange rate as a reasonable share of the production for contracts with a similar maturity structure. overheads are based on the normal capacity of the production equipment net For hedge accounting purposes, hedging instruof borrowing costs. ments are recognised as follows: Trade receivables and other originated • As fair value hedges if the instrument hedges financial assets the risk of a change in the fair value of a recTrade receivables and other originated financial ognised asset or liability or an unrecognised assets are recognised at amortised acquisition firm commitment (excluding currency risk) costs net of any individual value adjustments. • As cash-flow hedges if the instrument hedges Impairment losses in the form of individual or the risk of fluctuation in cash flows which general adjustments, are recognised to reasonacan be allocated to a recognised asset or liably allow for the risk of default, with the extent bility, the risk arising from a highly probable of the adjustment essentially being the overdue forecast transaction or the currency risk arisperiod. In the presence of objective indications ing from an unrecognised firm commitment of impairment, the latter is recorded via an ad• As hedges of a net investment in a foreign justment account through profit and loss. In the operation Sto Group, the adjustment account is essentially used for recognition of impairments of trade At the beginning of hedging, both the hedging receivables. In the event of specific defaults, the relationship and the Group’s risk management receivable in question is derecognised. goals and strategies regarding hedging are formally established and documented. The All receivables and financial assets are tested for documentation contains the definition of the impairment. hedging instrument, the underlying transaction or hedged transaction, the nature of the risk Derivative financial instruments being hedged and how the Group will assess In the Group, derivative financial instruments the hedging instrument’s effectiveness in offsetin the form of currency forwards are used for ting the exposure to changes in the fair value hedging of currency risks. These derivative or cash flow of the underlying transaction atfinancial instruments are recognised at their fair tributable to the hedged risk. Such hedges are value as of the date on which the contract is considered to be highly effective at successfully entered, and measured in subsequent periods offsetting the risks arising from changes in the at their fair value. Derivative financial instrufair value or cash flow. ments are recognised as assets if they have a positive fair value and as liabilities if they have a Hedges of cash flows which satisfy the strict negative fair value. hedge accounting criteria are accounted for as follows: Gains or losses from changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments which do not The effective portion of the gain or loss from a satisfy the conditions for recognition as hedges hedging instrument is recognised through other are immediately recognised through profit and earnings in equity, whereas the ineffective porloss. tion is immediately recognised in profit and loss. 104 Consolidated annual financial statements of the Sto Group (IFRS) | Sto SE & Co. KGaA The amounts recognised in equity are reclassiAvailable-for-sale assets fied in the statement of profit and loss in the The Group classifies non-current assets as period in which the hedged transaction affects available-for-sale assets if the respective carrythe profit for the period, e.g. when the hedged ing amount is mainly realised through a sales income or expenditures are recognised or a sale transaction rather than through ongoing use. is executed. If a hedge results in the recognition Financial assets classified as available-for-sale of a non-financial asset or a non-financial liabilare measured at the lower of the carrying ity, the amounts recognised in equity become amount and fair value less costs of sale. Assets part of the acquisition costs as of the date on are only classified as available-for-sale if a sale is which the non-financial asset or non-financial probable. Management must have decided the liability are acquired. sale and this sale must have been completed within a year from the corresponding reclassifiIf the forecast transaction or firm commitcation. ment are no longer expected to occur, the amounts previously recognised under equity are Property, plant, and equipment as well as reclassified into profit and loss. If the hedging intangible assets classified as available-for-sale instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exare not subject to scheduled depreciation/amercised (and there is no replacement or rollover ortisation. of a hedging instrument into another hedging instrument), the amounts recognised in equity Treasury stock until that point remain separately recognised Sto SE & Co. KGaA’s treasury stock is deducted in equity until the forecast transaction or firm from equity. The purchase, sale, issue and commitment of the underlying transaction redemption of treasury stock is not recognised occurs. in profit and loss. In the Group, derivative financial instruments Post-employment benefit provisions are essentially currency forwards. These are Actuarial measurement of the post-employment used to hedge currency risks. benefit provisions is based on the projected-­ unit-credit method for defined benefit plans In the fiscal years of 2015 and 2016 there have for pension schemes as defined in IAS 19. This been no hedges satisfying the strict hedge method takes account of the benefit obligations accounting criteria. and entitlement accruing on the balance sheet date as well as average life expectancy, future Cash and cash equivalents salary and pension increases, the expected age Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash in of retirement and expected fluctuation. hand and credit balance with banks including highly liquid deposits available at short notice, Average life expectancy is estimated on the which can be converted quickly into cash and basis of acknowledged biometric models. Accash equivalents, with original settlement tuarial gains and losses are recognised in other periods of three or fewer months and which income in equity with no impact on profit and are not additionally subject to any significant loss after deferred taxes. fluctuations in value. The defined benefit asset or liability comprises the present value of the defined benefit 105 Sto SE & Co. KGaA | Consolidated annual financial statements of the Sto Group (IFRS) obligation less existing plan assets which are Deferred taxes used to directly settle obligations. These plan As a matter of principle, deferred taxes are recassets each take the form of a qualifying ognised for all temporary differences between insurance policy. Plan assets cannot be touched the taxable amounts and the consolidated by creditors or directly paid out to the Group. balance sheet. Measurement is based on the fair value. Since these are qualified insurance policies, fair value Deferred taxes are recognised on unused tax of the pension plan of the Euro companies losses provided that it is likely that they will be corresponds to the present value of the covered able to be used within a reasonable period of liability. time. They are not recognised if the temporary difference arises from goodwill or the initial Other provisions recognition of other assets and liabilities in a In accordance with IAS 37, provisions are transaction (other than a business combination) formed for present liabilities towards third which affects neither accounting earnings nor parties from a past event which is likely to result taxable earnings (tax loss). Deferred tax liabilities in a future outflow of economic resources, the are formed for taxable temporary differences amount of which can be reliably estimated. arising from shares in subsidiaries, associates, and joint ventures unless the parent company is Provisions are reviewed at each balance sheet able to control the reversal of the temporary difdate and adjusted in the light of the best curference and the temporary difference is unlikely rent estimate. to reverse in the foreseeable future. Provisions in which the interest effect exercises Deferred taxes are measured in accordance a significant effect in connection with the with the applicable national income tax rates settlement of the obligation are recognised at expected as of the date of realisation, as well as the present value of the expected expenses. The on the basis of applicable or enacted tax law. discount is based on risk-free interest rates. The settlement amount also includes any expected Deferred tax assets which are not expected to increase in costs. be recognised in a reasonable period of time are adjusted. Deferred tax assets are re-assessed at If the conditions for recognising provisions are each balance sheet date. Deferred tax assets and not met, the obligation in question is reported liabilities are netted if the Group has a legally as a contingent liability provided that there is a enforceable right to set off the actual tax reimreasonable likelihood of an outflow of resources bursement claims against actual tax liabilities embodying economic benefits. and if the deferred taxes relate to one and the same tax payer and the same taxation authority. Trade payables and other originated financial liabilities Deferred taxes are recorded as tax asset or exTrade payables and other originated financial pense in the statement of profit and loss unless liabilities are measured at amortised costs of they relate to other income items recognised acquisition. Any differences between historical directly in equity that have no impact on profit acquisition costs and the settlement amount and loss,. In this case the deferred taxes are also are reported in accordance with the effective recognised in equity with no impact on profit interest method. and loss. 106 Consolidated annual financial statements of the Sto Group (IFRS) | Sto SE & Co. KGaA Recognition of income and expenses Financial guarantees As a manufacturer of products and systems for Financial guarantees extended by the Group building coatings, the Group mainly provides are contracts which obligate the making of good deliveries and only provides services to a payments and indemnify the guarantee holder limited extent. With respect to goods deliveries, for a loss arising from a specific debtor who turnover recognition is effected in the period in does not meet his payment obligations on time which the control of the asset is transferred to according to the conditions of a debt instruthe customer; with services this is the period in ment. These financial guarantees are treated as which the service is provided. When recording insurance contracts pursuant to IFRS 4, in other the sales revenue, agreed discounts or volume words they are accounted for as contingent obdiscounts are taken into account according to ligations until it becomes probable that a claim the relevant period. For few projects revenue will be filed. If such is the case, a corresponding from construction contracts is recognised obligation is included in the balance sheet. according to the degree of completion (percentage-of-completion method). The degree Events after the balance sheet date of completion is determined based on the Events occurring after the balance sheet date costs incurred up until the balance sheet date which provide additional significant information as percentage of the costs estimated for the on the Group’s situation at the balance sheet entire project. Operating expenses are reported date are included in the statement of financial through profit and loss upon utilisation of position. Events occurring after the balance the service or on the date on which they are sheet date impacting value are disclosed in the caused. Interest income and expenses are notes. recorded in the period they are incurred. Dividends are recognised at the time when legal Discretionary decisions, estimates and entitlement arises. assumptions by Management The preparation of the consolidated financial Government funding statements requires the use of discretionary deGovernment funding is recognised in accordcisions, estimates and assumptions which affect ance with IAS 20 if it is certain that the condithe extent and disclosure of assets and liabilities tions involved will be fulfilled and the governreported, income and expenses recognised and ment funding will subsequently be granted. contingent liabilities in the period under review. Uncertainties associated with these assumptions Earnings-related government funding is coland estimates, however, may give rise to results lected through profit and loss in the period in leading to substantial adjustments to the carrywhich the expenses to be defrayed are incurred. ing amounts of the assets or liabilities affected Government funding is generally tied to a in future periods. number of conditions imposed. Fulfillment of these conditions is also verified when disbursing The assumptions and assessments are based on such government funding because expenses are decisions which in turn reflect the knowledge generally refunded only once the expenses to available at that point in time. In particular, be subsidised have actually been incurred. This estimates concerning the Group’s expected prevents later repayments. future economic performance are based on the circumstances known as of the date on which the consolidated financial statements are 107 Sto SE & Co. KGaA | Consolidated annual financial statements of the Sto Group (IFRS) prepared as well as probable expectations as to and the complexity of existing contractual future trends in business conditions both globarrangements, departures from the actual ally and in the Group’s sector. Changes in these results and the assumptions made as well as underlying conditions which deviate from these future changes may call for adjustments to assumptions and are beyond management’s tax assets and tax liabilities already recogcontrol may cause actual amounts to vary from nised. the original estimates. If actual trends deviate from those expected, the assumptions and On 31 December 2016, the deferred tax estimates and, if necessary, carrying amounts of liabilities stood at EUR 2,070 K and the the assets and liabilities concerned are adjusted deferred tax assets at EUR 17,277 K. The accordingly. The essential assumptions and income tax liabilities total EUR 3,004 K, the estimates relate to: income tax receivables EUR 6,334 K. • Impairment of non-financial assets • Pension benefits An impairment occurs if the carrying amount The expense of defined benefit plans on of the asset or of a cash-generating unit termination of employment and the present exceeds its recoverable amount. The recovervalue of pension obligations are deterable amount of an asset or of a cash-genermined by actuarial calculations. An actuarial ating unit is the higher of the two amounts evaluation is made on the basis of various of fair value less cost of sale and value in assumptions that may deviate from actual use. The calculation of fair value less cost of developments in the future. These paramesale is based on available data from binding ters include future discount rates, the mortalsales transactions between independent ity rate, the expected age of retirement and business partners concerning similar assets or future pension increases. Owing to the comobservable market prices less directly attribplexity of the evaluation, of the underlying utable costs of selling the asset in question. assumptions and their long-term nature, a The discounted cash flow method is used defined benefit-oriented commitment reacts to calculate the value in use. Cash flows extremely sensitively to any changes to such are derived from the finance plan for the assumptions. All assumptions are reviewed at following five years, with significant future balance sheet date. investments that will increase the profitability of the tested cash-generating unit not being In determining the appropriate discount included. The value in use is still heavily derate, Management relies for guidance on the pendent on the underlying discount, as well interest rates of corporate bonds in the reas on the growth rate used for extrapolation spective currency with at least an AA rating; purposes. these interest rates are adjusted by extrapolation to the expected running period of the • Taxes defined benefit obligation. Uncertainties exist concerning the interpretation of complex tax-related regulations, The mortality rate is based on publicly accesamendments to taxation law as well as the sible mortality tables for the country in quesextent and time of origin of earnings taxable tion. Future increases in wages and salaries at a future date. Owing to the immense as well as pensions are based on expected bandwidth of international business relations future inflation rates for each country. The 108 Consolidated annual financial statements of the Sto Group (IFRS) | Sto SE & Co. KGaA expected age of retirement is determined • Provisions on the basis of company-specific data of the Management is required to make assesspast few years as well as future expectations. ments, especially as regards recognition and valuation of guarantee provisions. Provisions On 31 December 2016, the provisions for for guarantee commitments are set up if pensions and similar liabilities before offthe occurrence of a guarantee commitment setting plan assets totalled EUR 128,221 K. is considered to be probable. For instance, EUR 34,990 K of which are offset against the assessment of the degree of probability the plan assets. Post-employment benefit and the extent is based on past experience, provisions amount to EUR 93,231 K. external experts, and current information available. Owing to the associated uncer• Fair value of financial instruments tainties, the actual costs may differ from the To the extent that the fair value of financial original estimates and, therefore, from the assets and financial liabilities recognised in amount provisioned. the statement of financial position cannot be measured by means of data sourced The carrying amount of current warranty on an active market, it will be determined provisions on 31 December 2016 amounted using measurement methods, including the to EUR 29,409 K. Non-current warranty discounted cash flow method. The input provisions amount to EUR 7,893 K. parameters included in the model are based as far as possible on observable market data. On the date of preparation of the consolidated financial statements there were no significant A net liability of EUR 59 K resulted from the risks to the underlying assumptions and estifinancial instruments valued at fair value on mates which would have required significant 31 December 2016. adjustments of the carrying amounts of the assets and liabilities recognised in the consoli• Receivables dated balance sheet in the following accountAllowances for bad debt are made in the ing period. Sto Group in order to take account of anticipated losses resulting from customers’ insolvency. The basis for assessing the appropriateness of allowances for bad debt are the due dates of receivables and experience made in derecognising receivables in the past, as well as changes in payment behaviour. In the event of a deterioration of customers’ financial situation, the extent of derecognitions actually made may exceed the extent of the anticipated derecognitions. On 31 December 2016, the carrying amount of the trade receivables totalled EUR 123,674 K. 109 Sto SE & Co. KGaA | Consolidated annual financial statements of the Sto Group (IFRS) Consolidated segment reporting as at 31 December 2016 Information on geographic Western Europe Other segments by sales markets Northern/Eastern Europe America/Asia in EUR K 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 External revenues 943,981 931,498 136,850 129,735 149,841 155,320 Inter-segment revenues 35,601 36,380 386 179 7 85 Segment revenues 979,582 967,878 137,236 129,914 149,848 155,405 EBITDA 83,563 99,009 8,413 2,496 10,465 11,969 Depreciation/amortisation 26,558 23,958 2,765 2,514 3,370 4,625 EBIT (Earnings before interest and taxes) 57,005 75,051 5,648 –18 7,094 7,344 Interest income 1,224 1,494 255 241 484 624 Interest expense 3,328 3,106 298 298 169 188 EBT (Earnings before taxes) 54,901 74,392 5,605 17 7,409 7,768 Segment assets 521,779 472,395 84,192 66,863 84,634 79,986 Investments 31,109 29,190 1,930 2,985 4,428 3,841 Employees on balance sheet date 4,032 3,801 638 618 581 613 Notes on product groups in EUR K Facade systems Facade coatings Interiors 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 External revenues 566,110 585,533 303,976 308,814 169,833 160,318 Segment reporting is explained in Note (31). 110 Consolidated annual financial statements of the Sto Group (IFRS) | Sto SE & Co. KGaA Reconciliation/ Group consolidation booking entries 2016 2015 2016 2015 0 0 1,230,673 1,216,553 –35,994 –36,644 0 0 –35,994 –36,644 1,230,673 1,216,553 516 –898 102,956 112,576 0 –60 32,693 31,037 516 –838 70,263 81,539 –978 –878 985 1,481 –978 –878 2,817 2,714 178 –933 68,093 81,243 23,611 22,674 714,216 641,918 0 –195 37,468 35,821 0 0 5,251 5,032 Other product groups Group 2016 2015 2016 2015 190,754 161,887 1,230,673 1,216,553 111 Sto SE & Co. KGaA | Consolidated annual financial statements of the Sto Group (IFRS) Notes on the statement of profit and loss (1) Revenues For the purposes of segment reporting, revenues are broken down by geographic sales market and business segment. (2) Other internally generated assets Other internally generated assets in the year under review, as in the previous year, comprise the required capitalisation of planning costs and internally generated assets for constructed buildings. (3) Other operating income in EUR K 2016 2015 Income from the reversal of provisions and accrued liabilities 7,798 10,761 Income from the reversal of value adjustments for receivables and other assets 6,664 3,824 Currency translation gains 3,843 5,982 Proceeds received towards derecognised receivables 438 418 Income from the disposal of assets 356 803 Income from recharged expenses to third parties 287 125 Government funding 98 141 Other operating income 5,807 5,807 Other operating income in total 25,291 27,861 Public funding consists essentially of grants for research and for the creation and safeguarding of new jobs. To some extent, this funding is subject to certain conditions. We assume that we can meet the conditions imposed. The other operating income contains appreciations for a building of Sto Brasil Revestimentos e Fachadas Ltda. (formerly Argamont Revestimentos e Argamassas Ltda.) to the amount of EUR 401 K due to the positive development of the market prices. 112 Consolidated annual financial statements of the Sto Group (IFRS) | Sto SE & Co. KGaA (4) Cost of material in EUR K 2016 2015 Raw materials, processing aids, and operating materials 252,575 246,974 Goods purchased 276,326 287,701 Expenses for raw materials, processing aids, operating materials, and goods purchased in total 528,901 534,675 Temporary staff 3,643 7,698 Commission production 2,061 1,680 Expenses for services purchased in total 5,704 9,378 Expenses for materials in total 534,605 544,053 (5) Personnel expenditure in EUR K 2016 2015 Wages and salaries 286,690 265,016 Social security contributions, and expenditure on post-employment, and for support 62,220 59,041 Total personnel expenditures 348,910 324,057 Expenditure on post-employment benefits priing within the framework of the New Balance marily comprises additions to the post-employprogramme. ment benefit provisions as stated in Note (23). In the year under review, research and developIn 2016, personnel expenditure included ment costs accounted for approx. EUR 14.3 miltariff-related increases as well as exceptional lion with an impact on profit and loss (previous one-off expenditure of EUR 10.0 million for the year: approx. EUR 13.8 million). planned personnel measures for risk provisionAnnual average headcount Amount 2016 2015 Employees 5,134 4,893 Trainees 200 193 Total no. of employees 5,334 5,086 113 Sto SE & Co. KGaA | Consolidated annual financial statements of the Sto Group (IFRS) (6) Other operating expenses VeroStone GmbH belongs to the segment of in EUR K 2016 2015 Western Europe. Sales 125,357 123,904 Due to the conducted impairment test, impairAdministration costs 49,645 44,578 ments were made to the customer base (EUR Rental and lease payments 29,300 29,226 659 K), the product brand (EUR 394 K) and the building (EUR 418 K) of Sto Brasil RevestiOperating costs 28,614 27,542 mentos e Fachadas Ltda. (formerly Argamont Adjustments to receivables Revestimentos e Argamassas Ltda.) in the and other assets 11,572 8,519 previous year. Other staff costs 6,549 7,011 Currency translation expense 4,571 7,204 Sto Brasil Revestimentos e Fachadas Ltda. (forLosses from the disposal of merly Argamont Revestimentos E Argamassas non-current assets 313 296 Ltda.) belongs to the segment of America/Asia. Other expenses 13,816 14,209 (8) Income from investments accounted for using the equity method Income from investments accounted for using Other operating expenses 269,737 262,489 the equity method affects impairment losses and was attributable solely to Inotec GmbH in Currency translation losses primarily comprise the fiscal year of 2016. exchange rate losses arising between the date of the transaction and date of payment as well as currency translation using closing rates. Adjustments of receivables and other assets include allowance for irretrievable accounts which have not been adjusted as well as additions to adjustments. (7) Depreciation/amortisation The amortisation of intangible assets and the depreciation of property, plant, and equipment are analysed in the appropriate parts of these Notes. In the year under review, the impairment test revealed an adjustment of technical plants (EUR 755 K), properties and buildings (EUR 523 K), and the customer base (EUR 179 K) of Vero­ Stone GmbH. 114 Consolidated annual financial statements of the Sto Group (IFRS) | Sto SE & Co. KGaA (9) Net interest income in EUR K 2016 2015 Other interest and similar income 997 1,481 Interest and similar expenditure –775 –788 Interest expense for post-employment benefit obligations –1,830 –1,792 Compounding interest of other non-current provisions and liabilities –191 –81 Interest expense for finance leasing –21 –52 Net interest income in total –1,820 –1,232 (10) Other net financial income/expense in EUR K 2016 2015 Income from the sale of business units 0 936 Other net financial income/expense in total 0 936 (11) Taxes on income and earnings Breakdown of income tax expense in EUR K 2016 2015 Actual domestic tax expense 11,833 17,083 Actual non-domestic tax expense 11,648 10,084 Actual tax expense 23,481 27,167 of which off-period tax expense 195 1,593 Expense/income from reversal of tax provisions (off-period) –70 20 Actual taxes on income and earnings 23,411 27,187 Deferred tax income/liabilities, domestic –1,091 –660 Deferred tax income/liabilities, non-domestic 123 –1,021 Deferred tax income/liabilities –968 –1,681 Income tax expense reported 22,443 25,506 115 Sto SE & Co. KGaA | Consolidated annual financial statements of the Sto Group (IFRS) In the 2016 assessment period the statutory unused tax losses in the corresponding amount corporate tax in Germany was levied at a rate were classified as available. of 15.0 %. Including trade tax and the solidarity surcharge, this resulted in an aggregate tax rate EUR 827 K of deferred tax income accounted of 28.6 % (previous year: 28.6 %). for temporary differences (previous year: EUR 720 K). The local income tax rates for foreign companies ranged between 0 % and 37.6 % (previChanges in tax rates resulted in deferred tax exous year: 0 % to 37.6 %). Deferred taxes were penditure of EUR 92 K (previous year: deferred measured using the tax rates valid or enacted as tax income EUR 249 K). of the balance sheet date. Deferred tax assets with no impact on profit In 2016, the realisation of unused tax losses and loss amounted to EUR 7,825 K at the balfrom previous years that had not been subject ance sheet date (previous year: EUR 8,884 K). to deferred taxes, led to a reduction in current taxes on income and earnings of EUR 29 K Recording actuarial profits and losses with no (previous year: EUR 16 K). impact on profit and loss within equity in accordance with IAS 19 resulted in an increase in equity Unused tax losses were valued at EUR 19,683 K of EUR 820 K in the current fiscal year (previous (previous year: EUR 13,485 K). Unused tax year: decrease in equity to the amount of EUR losses of EUR 12,520 K (previous year: EUR 1,187 K due to the reversal of deferred tax 7,762 K) are available for an indefinite period, assets) due to the addition of deferred tax assets. while EUR 4,378 K (previous year: EUR 4,490 K) may only be utilised within five years and EUR No deferred taxes were recognised for tem2,785 K (previous year: EUR 1,233 K) only porary differences on the profits retained by within ten years. subsidiaries of EUR 5,258 K (previous year: EUR 3,781 K) as historically these profits have always Of the unused tax losses, a sum of EUR been used to extend business activities at the 13,679 K (previous year: EUR 9,665 K) is asindividual locations and will continue to be used sumed to not be available for the time being. for this purpose in the future. Of these, EUR 7,756 K (previous year: EUR 3,942 K) are available for an indefinite period, In 2006, as a result of statutory amendments in while EUR 3,599 K (previous year: EUR 4,490 K) Germany, a corporate tax reimbursement claim may only be utilised within five years and EUR was recognised for the first time with an impact 2,324 K (previous year: EUR 1,233 K) only on profit and loss as current income tax assets within ten years. at present value in the balance sheet. The reimbursement claim had a present value of EUR Of the unused tax losses rated available, EUR 770 K at the balance sheet date (previous year: 2,569 K (previous year: EUR 1,321 K) were EUR 1,506 K). attributable to companies whose year result for 2016 was negative. As the affected companies The following deferred tax assets and liabilities are mainly those companies with a profit history are recognised to allow for recognition and and as the earnings plans of the affected commeasurement differences in the individual items panies for the following years are positive, the of the balance sheet and the unused tax losses: 116 Consolidated annual financial statements of the Sto Group (IFRS) | Sto SE & Co. KGaA Balance sheet item in EUR K Deferred tax assets Deferred tax liabilities 31 Dec 2016 31 Dec 2015 31 Dec 2016 31 Dec 2015 Intangible assets 269 322 1,885 141 Property, plant, and equipment 619 597 6,899 6,058 Non-current financial assets 718 616 0 0 Inventories 1,917 1,738 190 179 Current trade receivables 1,485 1,513 294 301 Current financial assets 2 0 247 289 Other current assets 9 230 247 248 Cash and cash equivalents 144 0 1 162 Special tax items 0 0 0 32 Post-employment benefit provisions 15,191 12,883 350 164 Other non-current provisions 496 441 24 30 Non-current borrowings 20 56 0 0 Non-current liabilities 72 17 0 0 Current provisions 1,445 2,277 590 529 Current borrowings 108 103 0 0 Trade payables 53 2 0 51 Other current liabilities 1,518 1,358 0 8 Unused tax losses 1,591 1,198 0 0 Tax reimbursements not yet utilised 277 122 0 0 Gross amount 25,934 23,473 10,727 8,192 Balancing 8,657 7,654 8,657 7,654 Amount recognised in the balance sheet 17,277 15,819 2,070 538 Deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities are netted if the Group has a legally enforceable right to set off the actual tax reimbursement claims against the actual tax liabilities, and the deferred tax assets and the deferred tax liabilities related to income taxes levied by one and the same taxation authority from the same tax payer. 117 Sto SE & Co. KGaA | Consolidated annual financial statements of the Sto Group (IFRS) Change in deferred taxes in EUR K Consideration in statement of Equity neutral profit and loss capital changes Total Status of deferred taxes as at 1 January 2016 6,397 9,104 –220 15,281 Intangible assets 90 0 0 90 Property, plant, and equipment 845 0 0 845 Non-current financial assets 101 0 0 101 Inventories 26 0 0 26 Current trade receivables –20 0 0 –20 Current financial assets 45 0 0 45 Other current assets –210 0 0 –210 Cash and cash equivalents 296 0 0 296 Special tax items 33 0 0 33 Post-employment benefit provisions 468 820 0 1,288 Other non-current provisions 61 0 0 61 Non-current borrowings –73 0 0 –73 Non-current liabilities –34 0 0 –34 Current provisions –920 0 0 –920 Current borrowings –37 0 0 –37 Trade payables 104 0 0 104 Other current liabilities 52 0 0 52 Unused tax losses –10 0 0 –10 Tax reimbursements not yet utilised 151 0 0 151 Effects from first-time consolidation and deconsolidation 0 0 –1,906 –1,906 Currency translation effects 17 –83 110 44 Status of deferred taxes as at 31 December 2016 7,382 9,841 –2,016 15,207 118 Consolidated annual financial statements of the Sto Group (IFRS) | Sto SE & Co. KGaA Reconciliation of expected and reported income tax expense in EUR K 2016 2015 Accounting profit 68,093 81,243 Expected income tax expense (tax rate: 28.6 %; previous year: 28.6 %) 19,475 23,235 Reconciliation: Tax-free income and permanent differences 3,336 1,258 Change in tax rate 92 249 Deviations of local tax rates from Group tax rate –840 –528 Deferred tax income on unused tax losses recognised for the first time –78 –494 Tax reduction for unused tax losses not yet recognised –29 –16 Effects of non-recognition of unused tax losses 352 325 Off-period taxes 125 1,613 Other effects 10 –136 Income tax expense reported 22,443 25,506 Effective tax rate (%) 33.0 31.4 The increase in the effective tax rate is essentially based on the changes in the earnings situation within the Group and the associated differences in the income tax between the individual companies. Furthermore, the increase in non-tax-deductible expenses had an effect. (12) Earnings per share ence shares (previous year: EUR 22,260 K) and Basic earnings per share are calculated by to EUR 27,745 K for limited ordinary shares dividing the proportion of earnings attributable (previous year: EUR 33,866 K). to Sto SE & Co. KGaA’s shareholders by the weighted average number of limited ordinary In addition to the issued shares, diluted earnand limited preference shares outstanding in ings per share also include potential shares (e.g. the year under review. from options). Both at 31 December 2016 and 31 December 2015, there were no potential Basic earnings in accordance with IAS 33 shares. Accordingly, basic and diluted earnings amounted to EUR 18,264 K for limited preferper share are identical in both years. Amount Ordinary shares Preference shares 2016 2015 2016 2015 Weighted average number of shares outstanding – basic/diluted 3,888,000 3,888,000 2,538,000 2,538,000 in EUR 2016 2015 in EUR 2016 2015 Share attributable to the shareholders of Sto SE & Co. KGaA 46,009,022 56,125,900 Earnings per share basic/diluted earnings of which: – basic/diluted Limited ordinary shares 27,745,256 33,866,392 Limited ordinary share 7.14 8.71 Limited preference shares 18,263,766 22,259,508 Limited preference share 7.20 8.77 119 Sto SE & Co. KGaA | Consolidated annual financial statements of the Sto Group (IFRS) In fiscal 2016, a dividend from the earnings of Further notes on the statement of profit 2015 of EUR 4.81 per ordinary share (total of and loss in accordance with IFRS 7 EUR 18,701 K), consisting of EUR 0.25 plus a bonus of EUR 4.56 and EUR 4.87 per preferThe Sto Group categorises financial instruments ence share (total: EUR 12,360 K), consisting of as follows: EUR 0.31 plus a bonus of EUR 4.56 was distributed. In total, the dividend payout amounted to • Financial instruments at fair value through EUR 31,061 K. profit and loss • Financial assets measured at amortised costs In fiscal 2015, a dividend from the earnings of of acquisition 2014 of EUR 25.39 per ordinary share (total • Financial instruments with a value recogniof EUR 97,744 K), consisting of EUR 0.25 plus tion in the statement of financial position a bonus of EUR 25.14, and EUR 25.45 per according to IAS 17 preference share (total: EUR 64,592 K), con• Financial instruments that are subject to sisting of EUR 0.31 plus a bonus of EUR 25.14 hedge accounting and was distributed. In total, the dividend payout • Financial instruments not coming within the amounted to EUR 163,308 K. scope of IFRS 7 (equity investments) Net profit/loss from financial assets categorised in accordance with IAS 39 in EUR K 2016 2015 Assets Designated assets to be measured at fair value through profit and loss (fair value option) –2 –116 Assets held for trading –700 –1,290 Sum total of financial assets measured at fair value through profit and loss –702 –1,406 Held-to-maturity assets –164 –278 Loans and receivables –4,847 –3,545 Liabilities Financial liabilities measured at amortised cost 685 –1,065 Net gains and losses from financial assets and Net gains and losses from loans and receivables liabilities at fair value through profit and loss are primarily derived from impairments and include changes in the fair value as well as disposals. exchange-rate related expenditure and income in connection with these financial instruments. Interest expenses and income are not part of the net result. 120 Consolidated annual financial statements of the Sto Group (IFRS) | Sto SE & Co. KGaA Total interest income and expense from financial instruments not recognised at fair value through profit and loss in EUR K 2016 2015 Interest income 854 1,253 Interest expense 807 762 Net interest income 47 491 Impairment losses on financial assets by class in EUR K 2016 2015 Measured at amortised costs of acquisition 11,572 8,519 The measurement of the portfolio of financial instruments at fair value as at 31 December 2016 resulted in a net income of EUR 9 K (previous year: income of EUR 124 K). Income and expenses from measurement at fair value are reported under other operating income and other operating expenses, respectively, or in net financial income under interest and similar expenses or in other financing expenses. 121 Sto SE & Co. KGaA | Consolidated annual financial statements of the Sto Group (IFRS) Notes on the consolidated balance sheet (13) Intangible assets Changes in intangible assets from 1 January until 31 December 2015 in EUR K Industrial property rights and licences including Payments software Goodwill made on account Total Cost of acquisition/production 01 January 2015 31,917 41,793 277 73,987 Additions 1,127 0 277 1,404 Change to companies consolidated 0 0 0 0 Disposals 1,700 1,398 0 3,098 Transfers 17 0 0 17 Exchange rate differences –423 –374 0 –797 31 December 2015 30,938 40,021 554 71,513 Cumulative depreciation and impairment losses 01 January 2015 24,876 6,986 0 31,862 Depreciation for the year 2,810 0 0 2,810 Impairment losses 1,053 0 0 1,053 Disposals 1,694 1,398 0 3,092 Transfers 0 0 0 0 Exchange rate differences –251 –339 0 –590 31 December 2015 26,794 5,249 0 32,043 Net carrying amount as at 31 December 2014 7,041 34,807 277 42,125 Net carrying amount as at 31 December 2015 4,144 34,772 554 39,470 122 Consolidated annual financial statements of the Sto Group (IFRS) | Sto SE & Co. KGaA Changes in intangible assets from 1 January until 31 December 2016 in EUR K Industrial property rights and licences including Payments software Goodwill made on account Total Cost of acquisition/production 01 January 2016 30,938 40,021 554 71,513 Additions 1,506 0 512 2,018 Change to companies consolidated 7,007 3,570 0 10,577 Disposals 1,348 0 16 1,364 Transfers 1,042 0 –537 505 Exchange rate differences 552 290 0 842 31 December 2016 39,697 43,881 513 84,091 Cumulative depreciation and impairment losses 01 January 2016 26,794 5,249 0 32,043 Depreciation for the year 2,670 0 0 2,670 Impairment losses 179 0 0 179 Disposals 1,347 0 0 1,347 Transfers 0 0 0 0 Exchange rate differences 466 257 0 723 31 December 2016 28,762 5,506 0 34,268 Net carrying amount as at 31 December 2015 4,144 34,772 554 39,470 Net carrying amount as at 31 December 2016 10,935 38,375 513 49,823 123 Sto SE & Co. KGaA | Consolidated annual financial statements of the Sto Group (IFRS) Goodwill Goodwill reported, amounting to EUR 38,375 K (previous year: EUR 34,772 K) breaks down as follows: Cash Generating Units in EUR K 31 Dec 2016 31 Dec 2015 Sto SE & Co. KGaA 15,760 15,760 Beissier S.A.S., La Chapelle La Reine/France 3,635 3,635 STRÖHER GmbH 3,570 0 Südwest Lacke + Farben GmbH & Co. KG, Böhl-Iggelheim/Germany 2,780 2,780 Beissier S.A.U., Errenteria/Spain 2,679 2,679 Sto Sp. z o.o., Warsaw/Poland 2,402 2,402 Sto Epitöanyag Kft., Dunaharaszti/Hungary 1,764 1,764 Sto Isoned B.V., Tiel/Netherlands 1,189 1,189 Sto Norge AS, Oslo/Norway 1,054 1,021 Miscellaneous under EUR 1,000 K 3,542 3,542 Goodwill in total 38,375 34,772 With the exception of Sto SE & Co. KGaA and Ströher GmbH, the cash-generating units (CGUs) identified for purposes of calculating goodwill are identical to the legal entities. The Sto CGU comprises Sto SE & Co. KGaA, Stühlingen/Germany; Verotec GmbH, Lauingen/Germany; and StoCretec GmbH, Kriftel/Germany. The CGU Ströher consists of Ströher GmbH, Dillenburg/Germany, Ströher Fliesen GmbH, Dillenburg/Germany, Ströher Produktions GmbH & Co. KG, Dillenburg/Germany, as well as GEPADI Fliesen GmbH, Dillenburg/Germany. 124 Consolidated annual financial statements of the Sto Group (IFRS) | Sto SE & Co. KGaA 125 Sto SE & Co. KGaA | Consolidated annual financial statements of the Sto Group (IFRS) (14) Property, plant, and equipment Changes in property, plant, and equipment from 1 January to 31 December 2015 in EUR K Land, land rights Rendered and buildings Other plant, advance including plant Technical operating and payments and buildings on land equipment business equipment under owned by others and machinery equipment construction Total Cost of acquisition/production 01 January 2015 306,698 185,701 178,032 14,290 684,721 Additions 5,502 4,921 9,697 14,295 34,415 Change to companies consolidated 123 0 –13 0 110 Disposals 1,521 2,107 6,195 164 9,987 Transfers 2,744 5,189 1,613 –9,563 –17 Exchange rate differences 2,613 2,606 1,838 –91 6,966 31 December 2015 316,159 196,310 184,972 18,767 716,208 Cumulative depreciation and impairment losses 01 January 2015 162,192 141,191 146,461 248 450,092 Depreciation for the year 8,602 8,038 10,109 7 26,756 Impairment losses 418 0 0 0 418 Disposals 1,071 1,961 6,005 3 9,040 Change to companies consolidated –11 0 –13 0 –24 Transfers 2 –49 46 0 –1 Appreciations 0 0 0 0 0 Exchange rate differences 1,854 2,048 1,574 6 5,482 31 December 2015 171,986 149,267 152,172 258 473,683 Net carrying amount as at 31 December 2014 144,506 44,510 31,571 14,042 234,629 Net carrying amount as at 31 December 2015 144,173 47,043 32,800 18,509 242,525 of which leased assets classified as financial leases, carrying amount as at 31 December 2015 1,835 1 753 0 2,589 126 Consolidated annual financial statements of the Sto Group (IFRS) | Sto SE & Co. KGaA Changes in property, plant, and equipment from 1 January to 31 December 2016 in EUR K Land, land rights Rendered and buildings Other plant, advance including plant Technical operating and payments and buildings on land equipment business equipment under owned by others and machinery equipment construction Total Cost of acquisition/production 01 January 2016 316,159 196,310 184,972 18,767 716,208 Additions 8,731 5,018 9,711 11,990 35,450 Change to companies consolidated 7,552 2,568 958 355 11,433 Disposals 1,128 482 7,287 19 8,916 Transfers 11,726 2,573 1,869 –16,673 –505 Exchange rate differences –41 –189 –10 116 –124 31 December 2016 342,999 205,798 190,213 14,536 753,546 Cumulative depreciation and impairment losses 01 January 2016 171,986 149,267 152,172 258 473,683 Depreciation for the year 8,700 9,053 10,798 15 28,566 Impairment losses 523 755 0 0 1,278 Disposals 224 431 6,907 0 7,562 Change to companies consolidated 0 0 0 0 0 Transfers –3 7 –4 0 0 Appreciations 401 0 0 0 401 Exchange rate differences –172 –188 –144 0 –504 31 December 2016 180,409 158,463 155,915 273 495,060 Net carrying amount as at 31 December 2015 144,173 47,043 32,800 18,509 242,525 Net carrying amount as at 31 December 2016 162,590 47,335 34,298 14,263 258,486 of which leased assets classified as financial leases, carrying amount as at 31 December 2016 0 218 583 0 801 127 Sto SE & Co. KGaA | Consolidated annual financial statements of the Sto Group (IFRS) Property, plant, and equipment are encumbered Call options have mostly been agreed for plants with mortgages in the amount of EUR 33,902 K and equipment leased under finance leases and (previous year: EUR 31,438 K) which serve to these are expected to be exercised. Leases are secure liabilities to banks. The mortgages are based on a weighted interest rate of 2.2 %. valued on the balance sheet date at EUR 333 K (previous year: EUR 62 K). Future lease payments are set out in the following tables: in EUR K up to 1 year 1–5 years 5–10 years 31 Dec 2015 Lease payments 447 219 0 666 Interest portions 7 3 0 10 Carrying amount/ present value 440 216 0 656 in EUR K up to 1 year 1–5 years 5–10 years 31 Dec 2016 Lease payments 434 370 0 804 Interest portions 33 41 0 74 Carrying amount/ present value 401 329 0 730 (15) Financial assets accounted for using the equity method As at 31 December 2016, the carrying amount Distributing dividends or repaying loans of the of shares accounted for using the equity investments in associates to the Sto Group remethod stands at EUR 0 K (previous year: in quires the common approval of the shareholdEUR 0 K). ers of the respective associates. The following amounts are attributable to the The Group had no contingent liabilities as of Group on account of the 47.5 % share in the the balance sheet date. joint venture Inotec GmbH: in EUR K 31 Dec 2016 31 Dec 2015 Assets 862 707 Liabilities 907 1,101 Revenues 5,099 4,745 Net profit/loss for the period 16 –73 128 Consolidated annual financial statements of the Sto Group (IFRS) | Sto SE & Co. KGaA (16) Inventories Inventories are measured at the lower of acquisition/production cost or the net realisable amount. Impairments in relation to the gross amount came to EUR 5,690 K (previous year: EUR 5,502 K). Of this, an amount of EUR 188 K reduced earnings (previous year: EUR 241 K reduced earnings). Net carrying amounts are reported as follows: in EUR K 31 Dec 2016 31 Dec 2015 Raw materials, processing aids, and operating materials 20,709 17,635 Work in progress 8,439 7,027 Finished products and goods 61,369 45,353 Payments made on account 2,025 1,208 Total inventories 92,542 71,223 Inventories with a carrying amount of EUR 2,641 K (previous year: EUR 0 K) serve to secure liabilities to banks and were valued at EUR 665 K (previous year: EUR 0 K) on the balance sheet date. (17) Current and non-current trade and non-trade receivables in EUR K Carrying Carrying amount as at amount as at current non-current 31 Dec 2016 current non-current 31 Dec 2015 from third parties 122,457 1,209 123,666 123,019 1,053 124,072 Companies accounted for using the equity method 8 0 8 6 0 6 Trade receivables in total 122,465 1,209 123,674 123,025 1,053 124,078 The fair values of trade receivables equal Trade receivables with a carrying amount of their carrying amounts. Adjustments of EUR EUR 6,064 K (previous year: EUR 4,860 K) serve 20,791 K (previous year: EUR 21,073 K) were to secure liabilities to banks and were valued at taken into account. EUR 3,472 K (previous year: EUR 2,754 K) on the balance sheet date. 129 Sto SE & Co. KGaA | Consolidated annual financial statements of the Sto Group (IFRS) (18) Non-current and current financial assets in EUR K Carrying Carrying amount as at amount as at current non-current 31 Dec 2016 current non-current 31 Dec 2015 Financial assets from third parties 71,762 393 72,155 57,556 191 57,747 Other receivables and financial assets from companies accounted for using the equity method 654 0 654 402 0 402 Positive fair value of derivative financial instruments 159 0 159 804 0 804 Financial assets in total 72,575 393 72,968 58,762 191 58,953 Financial assets from third parties include cash investments due for settlement in more than three months. In addition, this item includes receivables from suppliers amounting to EUR 3,379 K (previous year: EUR 3,852 K). Financial asset adjustments of EUR 0 K (previous year: EUR 401 K) were taken into account. Derivative financial instruments have the following positive fair values: in EUR K 31 Dec 2016 31 Dec 2015 Hedges against currency risks 159 804 interest risks 0 0 Fair values of derivative financial instruments in total 159 804 Derivative financial instruments as a whole are described in greater detail in Note (32). 130 Consolidated annual financial statements of the Sto Group (IFRS) | Sto SE & Co. KGaA (19) Other non-current and current assets in EUR K Carrying Carrying amount as at amount as at current non-current 31 Dec 2016 current non-current 31 Dec 2015 Other receivables from third parties 12,312 6 12,318 1,289 5 1,294 Other tax reimbursement claims 3,434 0 3,434 3,057 0 3,057 Prepaid expenses 5,715 1,062 6,777 5,958 1,127 7,085 Other payments made on account 513 0 513 697 0 697 Other assets in total 21,974 1,068 23,042 11,001 1,132 12,133 Other tax reimbursement claims include VAT reimbursement claims of EUR 3,215 K (previous year: EUR 2,447 K). Other assets allowances of EUR 0 K (previous year: EUR 63 K) were made. (20) Cash and cash equivalents in EUR K 31 Dec 2016 31 Dec 2015 Credit balances with banks 69,507 70,185 Cheques, cash in hand 564 677 Cash and cash equivalents in total 70,071 70,862 Credit balances are held at various banks in different currencies. 131 Sto SE & Co. KGaA | Consolidated annual financial statements of the Sto Group (IFRS) (21) Equity capital Capital reserves Changes in equity capital and minority interests Capital reserves essentially comprise additions are analysed in the statement of changes in from premiums. equity capital. Revenue reserves and other reserves Subscribed capital Revenue reserves and other reserves comprise On 31 December 2016 the share capital of Sto the following items: SE & Co. KGaA amounted to EUR 17,556 K. It was divided into 4,320,000 registered • Reserves for accrued profits: limited ordinary shares and 2,538,000 limited Revenue reserves include the current profits preference shares with no voting rights with a earned by Sto SE & Co. KGaA and its subsidnotional nominal value of EUR 2.56 per share. iaries and those generated in previous years that were not distributed. The limited preference shares each beforehand bore a higher dividend than the limited ordinary • Currency translation reserve: shares by EUR 0.06. A minimum dividend of EUR The currency translation reserve is used to 0.13 per limited preference share was guaranrecord any differences arising from the transteed. If distributable profit is not sufficient to pay lation of the financial statements of foreign the priority dividend of at least EUR 0.13 per limsubsidiaries. ited preference share in one or more fiscal years, then the missing amounts (without interest) are • Reserve for pensions: subsequently paid from the distributable profit The post-employment benefit reserve conof the following fiscal years once the share in the tains actuarial gains or actuarial losses from profit for those fiscal years has been distributed the post-employment benefit provisions to the limited preference shares and prior to a arising from differences between actual and dividend being paid on limited ordinary shares. assumed trends as well as changes in such assumptions. Stotmeister Beteiligungs GmbH, Stühlingen/ Germany, holds all but four of the limited • Treasury stock: ordinary shares of Sto SE & Co. KGaA not in As at 31 December 2016, Sto SE & Co. the ownership of Sto SE & Co. KGaA. The KGaA, Stühlingen/Germany, holds treasury personally liable partner, STO Management SE, stock in the form of 432,000 registered Stühlingen/Germany, does not have a share in limited ordinary shares with a notional value the capital of Sto SE & Co. KGaA. of EUR 1,105,920.00. This is equivalent to 10 % of all ordinary shares or 6.3 % of the The limited preference shares of Sto SE & Co. share capital of Sto SE & Co. KGaA. Treasury KGaA are listed at the stock exchanges in stock is not dividend-entitled. Frankfurt/Main and Stuttgart/Germany in the “Regulated market” segment. The limited ordiProposed dividend nary shares are not listed on the stock market. In accordance with Sections 278, 58 (4) of the German Stock Corporation Act, the dividend The shares of STO Management SE, Stühlingen/ distributed is based on the unappropriated Germany, are held to 100 % by Stotmeister surplus recorded in the financial statements Beteiligungs GmbH, Stühlingen/Germany. prepared according to German commercial law. 132 Consolidated annual financial statements of the Sto Group (IFRS) | Sto SE & Co. KGaA The financial statements prepared by Sto SE & In the fiscal year of 2016, the equity capital Co. KGaA according to German commercial attributable to the shareholders of Sto SE & law carry a net income of EUR 45,964 K. The Co. KGaA rose by 3.4 % as compared to the personally liable partner of Sto SE & Co. KGaA, previous year. This was mainly the result of the STO Management SE, Stühlingen, proposes increase in revenue reserves. via its Executive Board at the Annual General Meeting of Sto SE & Co. KGaA a dividend disAs in the previous year, no net debt has been tribution of EUR 0.25 plus a bonus of EUR 3.00 incurred in the current fiscal year. = total of EUR 3.25 per limited ordinary share, and EUR 0.31 plus a bonus of EUR 3.00 = total Due to the credit line arranged with a bank of EUR 3.31 per limited preference share, i.e. consortium in December 2012, with the latest a total amount of EUR 21,037 K, an amount extension in 2016, the Group is constrained by of EUR 24,000 K to be transferred to revenue external covenants. Any failure to comply with reserves, and the balance of EUR 927 K to be these financial covenants entitles the lenders carried forward to new account. to terminate the credit line for good cause. The conditions of these external covenants have Notes on capital management been met. The purpose of capital management is to ensure that the Group effectively achieves its goals and pursues its strategies in the interests of the shareholders, employees, and other stakeholders and that it successfully implements the defined strategies. In particular, management focuses on achieving the minimum return on invested assets sought by the capital market as well as on maintaining a solid return on equity. In selecting financial instruments, the Group attaches importance to matching-maturities finance. in EUR K 31 Dec 2016 31 Dec 2015 Change in % Equity attributable to the shareholders of Sto SE & Co. KGaA 417,848 403,956 3.4 % Current borrowings 13,498 4,162 224.3 % Non-current borrowings 1,121 313 258.1 % Less cash and cash equivalents 70,071 70,862 –1.1 % Net assets 55,452 66,387 –16.5 % % of equity capital 13.3 % 16.4 % Equity ratio 59.5 % 63.0 % Return on Capital Employed (ROCE) 13.9 % 17.6 % 133 Sto SE & Co. KGaA | Consolidated annual financial statements of the Sto Group (IFRS) (22) Share of minority interests widow’s and orphan’s pensions. A prerequisite The shares of equity on the part of minority infor receiving benefits is that the following two terests in the current fiscal year are attributable requirements are met upon occurrence of the to shareholders of the Ströher Group, Dillenevent burg/Germany, UAB TECH-COAT, Klaipèda/ Lithuania as well as to shareholders of Sto Italia – a minimum period of service of 10 years Srl, Empoli/Italy. In the previous year these were after the age of 25 only attributable to shareholders of Sto Italia – the employee had been in an employSrl, Empoli/Italy. ment relationship with Sto or has a non-lapsable entitlement. (23) Post-employment benefits and similar liabilities Old-age pension is granted with receiving state Provisions for post-employment benefits are pension. The monthly old-age or invalidity recognised in accordance with entitlement arispension amounts to between EUR 5.11 and ing under the company pension scheme. The EUR 9.20 per year of service and depending benefits provided by the Group vary according on the employee’s status. The widow’s pension to the legal, tax and economic situation in the amounts to 60 % of the old-age and invalidity individual country and are based on the length pension. of service and partially the salary of the entitled employees. The Group pension scheme primarIn Switzerland the current benefits agreements ily comprises defined benefit obligation plans. for employees are effected by plans which are In addition, there are also some defined contriregulated by Federal Law on Occupational Oldbution plans. In the case of defined contribuage, Survivor’s and Disability Insurance (BVG). tion plans, the Company pays contributions into Pension plans in Switzerland are administered public or private pension funds in accordance by collective foundations which are financed with statutory or contractual obligations. Upon by regular employee and employer contribupayment of these contributions, no further tions. The final pension benefits are contribuobligations accrue for the Company. Current tion-based with specific minimum guarantees. contribution payments (net of contributions Due to these minimum guarantees, pension to statutory pension funds) are reported as plans in Switzerland are allocated as being post-employment benefit expenses for the year defined benefit plans, although they possess in question and in 2016 were valued in the Sto many properties of defined contribution plans. Group at a total of EUR 1,203 K (previous year: The deficient cover can be remedied by various EUR 1,322 K). methods, such as increasing employee and employer contributions, lowering the interest Contributions to statutory pension funds came rate for retirement assets, or reducing future to EUR 17,584 K (previous year: EUR 17,505 K). benefit claims. The company pension schemes operated within As the calculations are based on assumptions the Sto Group are for the most part based on that are subject to uncertainties, the generally internally funded defined benefit plans. applicable calculation methods were used. The sensitivity analyses listed below show the Benefit obligations assumed by the German impacts of potential deviations. companies primarily exist for old-age, invalidity, 134 Consolidated annual financial statements of the Sto Group (IFRS) | Sto SE & Co. KGaA Post-employment benefit provisions are calculated in accordance with IAS 19 (Employee benefits) using the projected unit credit method, which is the standard international method. For this purpose, future obligations are measured on the basis of the prorated benefits accruing at the balance sheet date. In making this assessment, assumed trends in the relevant determinants influencing the size of the benefits are taken into account. Actuarial calculations are necessary for all pension systems. Actuarial gains or losses arise from changes in the plan assets or deviations in actual trends (e.g. income and pension increases, changes in interest rates) or from changes in the assumptions underlying calculations. All actuarial gains and losses are recognised in equity in full in the period in which they arise. Actuarial gains and losses reported within equity are presented in the following provisions table. Summary of the post-employment benefit provisions in EUR K 2016 2015 Pension plan of the Euro companies –80,873 –68,519 Pension plan of Sto AG Switzerland –12,358 –12,958 Total –93,231 –81,477 135 Sto SE & Co. KGaA | Consolidated annual financial statements of the Sto Group (IFRS) Changes in post-employment benefit provisions Pension plan of the Euro companies in EUR K Present Fair value Liability value of the of the from the defined-benefit plan assets defined-benefit obligation obligation Status as at 1 January 2015 –78,771 7,943 –70,828 Expenditure for post-employment benefit obligations recognised through profit and loss Current service cost –2,671 0 –2,671 Interest expense/income –1,840 171 –1,669 Past service costs 0 0 0 Sub-total recognised in the financial statement for the period –4,511 171 –4,340 Pension benefits paid 1,896 –90 1,806 Profit/loss from reassessment recognised in other earnings Expenditure from plan assets (solely the amounts contained in the interest expense) 0 0 0 Actuarial gains and losses from changes in demographic assumptions 75 0 75 Actuarial gains and losses from changes in financial assumptions 6,965 –793 6,172 Experience-based adjustments –1,404 0 –1,404 Sub-total contained in other earnings 5,636 –793 4,843 Employer contributions 0 0 0 As at 31 December 2015 –75,750 7,231 –68,519 136 Consolidated annual financial statements of the Sto Group (IFRS) | Sto SE & Co. KGaA Pension plan of the Euro companies in EUR K Present Fair value Liability value of the of the from the defined-benefit plan assets defined-benefit obligation obligation Status as at 01 January 2016 –75,750 7,231 –68,519 Expenditure for post-employment benefit obligations recognised through profit and loss Current service cost –2,846 0 –2,846 Interest expense/income –1,917 180 –1,737 Past service costs 0 0 0 Sub-total recognised in the financial statement for the period –4,763 180 –4,583 Pension benefits paid 2,661 –181 2,480 Profit/loss from reassessment recognised in other earnings Expenditure from plan assets (solely the amounts contained in the interest expense) 0 0 0 Actuarial gains and losses from changes in demographic assumptions –558 584 26 Actuarial gains and losses from changes in financial assumptions –5,579 342 –5,237 Experience-based adjustments 1,326 0 1,326 Sub-total contained in other earnings –4,811 926 –3,885 Change to companies consolidated –6,624 123 –6,501 Employer contributions 0 135 135 As at 31 December 2016 –89,287 8,414 –80,873 Current service costs are included in staff costs; interest expenses on the obligation is reported under interest expenses, Note (9). The plan assets of the Euro companies take the form of qualifying insurance contracts. This is almost risk-free direct insurance. 137 Sto SE & Co. KGaA | Consolidated annual financial statements of the Sto Group (IFRS) The calculation of pension provisions was based on the following assumptions, with the predominant share of the amount recognised in the balance sheet being accounted for by Germany. Germany Non-Germany 2016 2015 2016 2015 Discount rate as at 31 December in % 1.95 2.35 2.35 2.35 Future pension increases in % 1.06 1.14 2.40 2.40 Age of retirement in years 65 65 62 – 65 62 – 65 Since 31 December 2005, the Heubeck 2005 G tables have been used as the biometric basis for calculations for German companies. Pension plan of Sto AG, Switzerland in EUR K Present Fair value Liability value of the of the from the defined-benefit plan assets defined-benefit obligation obligation Status as at 1 January 2015 –34,835 23,921 –10,914 Currency differences –3,822 2,624 –1,198 Expenditure for post-employment benefit obligations recognised through profit and loss Current service cost –955 0 –955 Interest expense/income –388 265 –123 Past service costs 0 0 0 Sub-total recognised in the financial statement for the period –1,343 265 –1,078 Pension benefits paid 4,681 –4,681 0 Profit/loss from reassessment recognised in other earnings Expenditure from plan assets (solely the amounts contained in the interest expense) 0 0 0 Actuarial gains and losses from changes in demographic assumptions 0 0 0 Actuarial gains and losses from changes in financial assumptions –1,015 195 –820 Experience-based adjustments 0 0 0 Sub-total contained in other earnings –1,015 195 –820 Employer contributions 0 1,052 1,052 Employee contributions –2,484 2,484 0 As at 31 December 2015 –38,818 25,860 –12,958 138 Consolidated annual financial statements of the Sto Group (IFRS) | Sto SE & Co. KGaA Pension plan of Sto AG, Switzerland in EUR K Present Fair value Liability value of the of the from the defined-benefit plan assets defined-benefit obligation obligation Status as at 01 January 2016 –38,818 25,860 –12,958 Currency differences –347 231 –116 Expenditure for post-employment benefit obligations recognised through profit and loss Current service cost –1,400 0 –1,400 Interest expense/income –288 193 –95 Past service costs 0 0 0 Sub-total recognised in the financial statement for the period –1,688 193 –1,495 Pension benefits paid 3,503 –3,503 0 Profit/loss from reassessment recognised in other earnings Expenditure from plan assets (solely the amounts contained in the interest expense) 0 0 0 Actuarial gains and losses from changes in demographic assumptions 0 172 172 Actuarial gains and losses from changes in financial assumptions 212 0 212 Experience-based adjustments 806 0 806 Sub-total contained in other earnings 1,018 172 1,190 Employer contributions 0 1,021 1,021 Employee contributions –2,602 2,602 0 As at 31 December 2016 –38,934 26,576 –12,358 The plan assets of Sto AG, Switzerland, take The calculation of post-employment benefit the form of qualifying insurance contracts. All provisions of Sto AG, Switzerland, was based regulatory benefits such as disability, death and on the following assumptions: longevity are integrally covered in the insurance contract. Switzerland 2016 2015 Discount rate as at 31 December in % 0.60 0.70 Future pension increases in % 1.00 1.00 Age of retirement in years 65 65 The BVG 2010 Generation Life Table was used as the biometric base for calculation. 139 Sto SE & Co. KGaA | Consolidated annual financial statements of the Sto Group (IFRS) The following shows a quantative sensitivity analysis of the most important assumptions as at 31 December 2016: in EUR K Effects on the in EUR K Effects on the performance-based performance-based obligation obligation of the of the Euro countries Euro countries Discount rate Life expectancy Decline by 0.5 % 8,479 Decrease by 1 year –3,563 Increase by 0.5 % –8,260 Increase by 1 year 2,684 Pensions Retirement age Decline by 1.0 % –9,884 Decrease by 1 year 1,213 Increase by 1.0 % 10,936 Increase by 1 year –2,440 in EUR K Effects on the in EUR K Effects on the performance-based performance-based obligation obligation of Sto AG of Sto AG Switzerland Switzerland Discount rate Life expectancy Decline by 0.5 % 3,659 Decrease by 1 year –713 Increase by 0.5 % –3,176 Increase by 1 year 687 Salary adjustments Decline by 0.5 % –330 Increase by 0.5 % 345 To determine the above sensitivity analysis, the provisions were determined based on the internationally applicable projected unit credit method taking into consideration the changed parameters. These provisions were then compared to the provision recorded on the balance sheet as of 31 December 2016. 140 Consolidated annual financial statements of the Sto Group (IFRS) | Sto SE & Co. KGaA The following amounts are expected to be paid over the next few years as part of defined-benefit liabilities: in EUR K Disbursements within the next 12 months 3,755 between 2 and 5 years 17,111 between 5 and 10 years 26,134 Expected disbursements within the next 10 years 47,000 The running period of the performance-oriented liability averages at 18.5 years at the end of the reporting period (previous year: 19.0 years). (24) Non-current and current provisions in EUR K Staff Production Sales Other division division division provisions Total Status as at 01 January 2015 6,250 994 22,747 1,896 31,887 Currency differences 19 0 1,032 10 1,061 Consumption –1,964 –119 –4,442 –993 –7,518 Additions/formation 2,323 60 15,551 390 18,324 Actuarial gains –3 0 0 0 –3 Change to companies consolidated 0 67 0 1 68 Compounding of interest 74 15 127 0 216 Reversal –401 –6 –9,268 –122 –9,797 Status as at 31 December 2015 6,298 1,011 25,747 1,182 34,238 Currency differences –20 0 14 –6 –12 Consumption –1,795 –122 –5,269 –504 –7,690 Additions/formation 12,789 405 22,725 1,059 36,978 Actuarial gains 2 0 0 0 2 Change to companies consolidated 501 0 434 112 1,047 Compounding of interest 74 13 81 1 169 Reversal –523 –64 –6,311 –164 –7,062 Status as at 31 December 2016 17,326 1,243 37,421 1,680 57,670 of which current 13,432 385 29,528 1,041 44,386 of which non-current 3,894 858 7,893 639 13,284 141 Sto SE & Co. KGaA | Consolidated annual financial statements of the Sto Group (IFRS) Provisions in the staff area have been set aside which the calculation of warranty provisions for anniversary expenses, termination settleare based are experience statistics for comments and similar obligations, among other plaints and the latest information available. things. Furthermore, uncertainties arise with regard to pending compensatory damages court cases Provisions of the production division comprise, in terms of compensation payments and the inter alia, asset retirement obligations and duration of the processes. We generally expect disposal costs. the provision to be utilised only after damage recovery. Provisions in the sales area essentially comprise provisions for warranties, compensation claims In addition to provisions for acceptance obligaof commercial representatives as well as provitions and safe-keeping obligations, the remainsions for litigation risks. Provisions for warranty ing other provisions comprise additional factual obligations are carried as liabilities for individual circumstances subordinate in nature in specific cases in the Sto Group. The assumptions on cases in terms of their recognition. (25) Non-current and current borrowings in EUR K Carrying Carrying amount as at amount as at current non-current 31 Dec 2016 current non-current 31 Dec 2015 Liabilities to banks 12,024 792 12,816 2,757 62 2,819 Liabilities under finance leases 401 329 730 405 251 656 Other borrowings 1,073 0 1,073 1,000 0 1,000 Borrowings in total 13,498 1,121 14,619 4,162 313 4,475 The conditions applicable to the liabilities under finance leases are explained in Note (14). (26) Trade payables The terms of the trade payables are completely short term. in EUR K 31 Dec 2016 31 Dec 2015 from The fair values of trade payables do not differ from the third parties 46,344 44,199 carrying amounts reported. Companies accounted for using the equity method 102 156 Trade payables in total 46,446 44,355 142 Consolidated annual financial statements of the Sto Group (IFRS) | Sto SE & Co. KGaA (27) Non-current and current financial liabilities in EUR K Carrying Carrying amount as at amount as at current non-current 31 Dec 2016 current non-current 31 Dec 2015 Negative fair values of derivative financial instruments 160 58 218 342 0 342 Other liabilities towards customers 16,700 0 16,700 15,295 0 15,295 towards employees 1,458 0 1,458 1,195 0 1,195 miscellaneous 9,469 683 10,152 9,433 662 10,095 Financial liabilities in total 27,787 741 28,528 26,265 662 26,927 Derivative financial instruments have the following negative fair values: in EUR K 31 Dec 2016 31 Dec 2015 Hedges against currency risks 199 342 interest risks 19 0 Fair values of derivative financial instruments in total 218 342 Derivative financial instruments as a whole are described in detail in Note (32). (28) Non-current and current other liabilities in EUR K Carrying Carrying amount as at amount as at current non-current 31 Dec 2016 current non-current 31 Dec 2015 Advance payment received on orders 1,812 0 1,812 1,230 0 1,230 Other liabilities from other taxes 7,735 0 7,735 7,926 0 7,926 social security liabilities 2,839 0 2,839 6,079 0 6,079 towards employees 24,544 27 24,571 20,548 9 20,557 miscellaneous 6,468 1 6,469 5,271 1 5,272 Other liabilities in total 43,398 28 43,426 41,055 10 41,065 143 Sto SE & Co. KGaA | Consolidated annual financial statements of the Sto Group (IFRS) (29) Further notes on financial instruments in accordance with IFRS 7 Reconciliation of balance sheet items with financial instrument categories as at 31 December 2015 in EUR K Measurement Carrying Financial instruments No category in amount financial accordance Amortised Fair Value Not instrument with IAS 39 costs of acquisition value recognition within the in the balscope of ance sheet IFRS 7/Hedge Carrying Fair according accounting 31 Dec 2015 amount value to IAS 17 Assets Equity investments n.a. 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Trade payables LaR 124,078 124,078 124,078 0 0 0 0 Other receivables and financial assets Available-for-sale financial assets AfS 22 22 22 0 0 0 0 Held-to-maturity investments HtM 9,843 9,843 9,854 0 0 0 0 Financial assets held for trading FAHfT 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Derivative assets with hedge relationship n.a. 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 without hedge relationship FAHfT 804 0 0 804 0 0 0 Other assets LaR/n.a. 60,416 48,284 48,284 0 0 1 12,131 Other receivables and 71,085 58,149 58,160 804 0 1 12,131 financial assets in total Cash and cash equivalents LaR 70,862 70,862 70,862 0 0 0 0 Liabilities Borrowings FLAC 3,767 3,767 3,767 0 0 0 0 Liabilities under finance leases n.a. 708 0 0 0 708 0 0 Borrowings in total 4,475 3,767 3,767 0 708 0 0 Trade payables FLAC 44,355 44,355 44,355 0 0 0 0 Other liabilities and financial liabilities Derivative liabilities with hedge relationship n.a. 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 without hedge relationship FLHfT 342 0 0 342 0 0 0 Other liabilities FLAC/n.a. 67,650 26,585 26,585 0 0 0 41,065 Other liabilities and 67,992 26,585 26,585 342 0 0 41,065 financial liabilities in total 144 Consolidated annual financial statements of the Sto Group (IFRS) | Sto SE & Co. KGaA Reconciliation of balance sheet items with financial instrument categories as at 31 December 2016 in EUR K Measurement Carrying Financial instruments No category in amount financial accordance Amortised Fair Value Not instrument with IAS 39 costs of acquisition value recognition within the in the balscope of ance sheet IFRS 7/Hedge Carrying Fair according accounting 31 Dec 2016 amount value to IAS 17 Assets Equity investments n.a. 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Trade payables LaR 123,674 123,674 123,674 0 0 0 0 Other receivables and financial assets Available-for-sale financial assets AfS 15 15 15 0 0 0 0 Held-to-maturity investments HtM 8,179 8,179 8,192 0 0 0 0 Financial assets held for trading FAHfT 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Derivative assets with hedge relationship n.a. 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 without hedge relationship FAHfT 159 0 0 159 0 0 0 Other assets LaR/n.a. 87,657 64,604 64,604 0 0 12 23,041 Other receivables and 96,010 72,798 72,811 159 0 12 23,041 financial assets in total Cash and cash equivalents LaR 70,071 70,071 70,071 0 0 0 0 Liabilities Borrowings FLAC 13,889 13,889 13,889 0 0 0 0 Liabilities under finance leases n.a. 730 0 0 0 730 0 0 Borrowings in total 14,619 13,889 13,889 0 730 0 0 Trade payables FLAC 46,446 46,446 46,446 0 0 0 0 Other liabilities and financial liabilities Derivative liabilities with hedge relationship n.a. 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 without hedge relationship FLHfT 218 0 0 218 0 0 0 Other liabilities FLAC/n.a. 71,736 28,311 28,311 0 0 0 43,425 Other liabilities and 71,954 28,311 28,311 218 0 0 43,425 financial liabilities in total 145 Sto SE & Co. KGaA | Consolidated annual financial statements of the Sto Group (IFRS) The carrying amounts of the financial instruments are aggregated as follows in accordance with the categories stipulated in IAS 39: in EUR K 31 Dec 2016 31 Dec 2015 Available-for-Sale (AfS) 15 22 Financial assets held for trading (FAhfT) 159 804 Held-to-Maturity Investments (HtM) 8,179 9,843 Loans and receivables (LaR) 258,361 243,225 Financial liabilities measured at amortised cost (FLAC) 88,646 74,707 Financial Liabilities Held for Trading (FLHfT) 218 342 Balance sheet items measured at fair value in EUR K 31 Dec Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 2015 Financial assets measured at fair value through profit and loss Derivatives with no hedge relationship 804 0 804 0 Available-for-sale financial assets Derivatives with a hedge relationship 0 0 0 0 Financial assets measured at fair value 804 0 804 0 Financial liabilities recognised at fair value through profit and loss Derivatives with no hedge relationship 342 0 342 0 Financial liabilities recorded in other earnings with no impact on profit and loss Derivatives with a hedge relationship 0 0 0 0 Financial liabilities recognised at fair value 342 0 342 0 in EUR K 31 Dec Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 2016 Financial assets measured at fair value through profit and loss Derivatives with no hedge relationship 159 0 159 0 Available-for-sale financial assets Derivatives with a hedge relationship 0 0 0 0 Financial assets measured at fair value 159 0 159 0 Financial liabilities recognised at fair value through profit and loss Derivatives with no hedge relationship 218 0 218 0 Financial liabilities recorded in other earnings with no impact on profit and loss Derivatives with a hedge relationship 0 0 0 0 Financial liabilities recognised at fair value 218 0 218 0 146 Consolidated annual financial statements of the Sto Group (IFRS) | Sto SE & Co. KGaA The following financial assets and liabilities Trend relating to adjustments of financial instruaccounted for at fair value are structured acments valued at amortised costs of acquisition cording to the following valuation categories: (refers solely to trade receivables, other receivables and financial assets): Level 1 Financial instruments traded in active markets, in EUR K 2016 2015 the listed prices of which were adopted unchanged for measurement purposes. Status as at 01 January 21,537 22,248 Exchange rate differences –3 –153 Level 2 Additions 8,637 7,564 The measurement is made on the basis of valConsumption 3,040 4,298 uation methods in which the influential factors Reversals 6,664 3,824 are derived either directly or indirectly from Change to companies consolidated 324 0 observable market data. The derivatives are As at 31 December 20,791 21,537 currency hedges only. They are measured based on the observable exchange rates, the interest structure curves of the respective currencies as well as the currency-related basic spreads between the respective currencies. Level 3 The measurement is effected using valuation methods where the influential factors are not based exclusively on observable market data. During the reporting period there were no transfers between measurements at fair value at Level 1 and Level 2 and no transfers to or from measurements at fair value at Level 3. 147 Sto SE & Co. KGaA | Consolidated annual financial statements of the Sto Group (IFRS) The following table shows the carrying amounts struments which typically barely differ between and fair values of the financial instruments as carrying amount and fair values. at 31 December 2016, excluding financial inin EUR K Carrying Fair amount value 31 Dec 2016 31 Dec 2016 Financial assets Non-current Investments 15 15 Loans 0 0 Forward exchange contracts 0 0 Financial investments 0 0 Other financial assets 378 378 Non-current financial assets in total 393 393 Current Financial investments 67,570 67,587 Loans 665 665 Forward exchange contracts 159 159 Other financial assets 4,181 4,181 Current financial assets in total 72,575 72,592 Total financial assets 72,968 72,985 Financial liabilities Non-current Borrowings 1,121 1,121 Other financial liabilities 329 329 Forward exchange contracts 58 58 Non-current financial liabilities in total 1,508 1,508 Current Borrowings 13,498 13,498 Forward exchange contracts 160 160 Other financial liabilities 27,628 27,628 Current financial liabilities in total 41,286 41,286 Total financial liabilities 42,794 42,794 The carrying amounts of cash and cash equivinvestments are mainly borrower’s note loans, alents, receivables and liabilities from deliveries money market funds and term deposits with and services correspond mainly to the fair short terms, so that their fair values only differ values due to the short terms. The financial slightly from the nominal values. 148 Consolidated annual financial statements of the Sto Group (IFRS) | Sto SE & Co. KGaA Other disclosures (30) Cash flow statement (31) Segment reporting The cash flow statement shows how the For the purpose of corporate management by Group’s liquidity position has changed in the the responsible corporate entity – the personally course of the year under review as a result of liable partner STO Management SE – the Group cash inflows and outflows. For this purpose, it is divided up into geographical business units. distinguishes cash flow from operating activiThe geographical business units were consolities, cash flow from investing activities and cash dated to form the segments of Western Europe flow from financing activities (IAS 7 Statement and Other with the segment Other being of cash flows). broken down into the regions of Northern/ Eastern Europe and America/Asia. The business The cash flow statement solely comprises the segment of Western Europe comprises the cash and cash equivalents reported in the stategeographical business units of the Euro zone ment of financial position that include financial (without Finland and Slovakia), Switzerland, as investments with an original term of up to three well as the United Kingdom. months. Internal reporting is carried out in accordance Based on earnings before taxes, the cash flow is with IFRS. indirectly derived from operating activities. Earnings before taxes are adjusted to take account The activities of all segments included the of non-cash expenses (essentially depreciation) production and distribution of facade systems, and non-cash income. Cash flow from operatfacade coatings, interior products and Other ing activities reflects changes in working capital. product groups. Cash inflows and outflows from investing and The netting prices between segments conform financing activities are calculated using the to arms-length conditions. Transfers between direct method. Investment activities comprise business segments are eliminated on consolidadisbursements for additions to intangible assets tion. and tangible fixed assets as well as disbursements for the acquisition of consolidated The segment results in the Sto Group are companies and other business units, interest reported in the earnings categories of EBITDA, received, deposits arising from the disposal of EBIT and EBT. In the fiscal year 2016, a financial intangible assets and property, plant and equipasset at equity was valued with an amount ment, as well as disbursements and payments recognised in the balance sheet of EUR 0 K; the for financial investments. expense from at-equity valuation amounted to EUR 349 K (previous year: EUR 0 K) which was Financing activities comprise cash outflows from not assigned to any segment and was reported payments to shareholders, interest payments in the reconciliation column. and the taking out and payment of loans, as well as changes to other borrowings. Changes Depreciation/amortisation and investments in items of the statement of financial position relate to property, plant and equipment, and inanalysed for the cash flow statement cannot tangible assets. In the previous year, an impairbe directly derived from the balance sheet on ment test of Sto Brasil Revestimentos e Fachaaccount of non-cash currency translation effects das Ltda. (formerly Argamont Revestimentos and other non-cash transactions. e Argamassas Ltda.) resulted in a needed 149 Sto SE & Co. KGaA | Consolidated annual financial statements of the Sto Group (IFRS) depreciation of EUR 1,471 K in the segment Segment assets mainly comprise property, plant of America/Asia. This includes the full depreand equipment, intangible assets, inventories, ciation of the customer base (EUR 659 K) and trade receivables from third parties as well as the product brand (EUR 394 K). Furthermore, a other receivable and financial assets from third non-scheduled depreciation of a building was parties. performed in the amount of EUR 418 K. Income tax receivables and deferred tax receivIn the reporting period of 2016, a needed ables were listed in the “Reconciliation/consolappreciation of EUR 401 K for a building was idation booking entries” column since they are identified for Sto Brasil Revestimentos e Fachanot assigned to the individual segments. This das Ltda. (formerly Argamont Revestimentos e column also includes the items which cannot be Argamassas Ltda.) in the segment of America/ assigned to individual segments as well as the Asia. Furthermore, an impairment test of Vero­ eliminations of results between the segments. Stone GmbH resulted in a needed depreciation No significant adjustments were made to earnof EUR 1,457 K in the segment of Western Euings. rope. This contains non-scheduled depreciations of technical plants (EUR 755 K), properties and Owing to the broad customer structure of the buildings (EUR 523 K), and the customer base Sto Group, there is no customer with whom (EUR 179 K). 10 % or more of sales revenues are generated. The breakdown of sales revenues is made according to the customer’s head office. in EUR K 2015 Germany France Others Total External revenues 535,347 120,742 560,463 1,216,553 Intangible assets, property, plant, and equipment 177,103 25,485 79,407 281,995 in EUR K 2016 Germany France Others Total External revenues 548,647 121,212 560,814 1,230,673 Intangible assets, property, plant, and equipment 203,563 24,446 80,300 308,309 150 Consolidated annual financial statements of the Sto Group (IFRS) | Sto SE & Co. KGaA (32) Financial risk management and Liquidity risk financial instruments A liquidity forecast covering a defined period as well as unused credit facilities available to the Hedging policy Sto Group in addition to cash and cash equivaThe Sto Group’s international activities expose lents ensure adequate liquidity at all times. The it to interest and currency risks in particular. main credit facilities were established in connecThe purpose of risk management is to minimise tion with the syndicate finance agreement these risks. To this end, the usual instruments entered into in 2012 and extended to 2021 by such as currency forwards, forward exchange, amendment contracts in 2016. The term of the and interest rate swaps are used. usual credit lines runs until the year 2021 at the latest. Hedging guidelines Guidelines have been adopted to govern the The following overview sets out the contracscope for hedging and internal monitoring. tually agreed cash outflows from financial As a matter of principle, the type and scope instruments including interest, not including of hedging operations are determined by the cash outflows from finance leases shown in underlying transaction. Hedges are only used to Note (14). protect existing or planned transactions. For this purpose, according to internal guidelines only financial instruments with released counterparties may be transacted. in EUR K Cash outflows 31 Dec 2015 up to 1 year 1 – 5 years 5 – 10 years Borrowings 3,827 10 0 3,837 Trade payables 44,355 0 0 44,355 Other borrowings 25,923 303 0 26,226 Derivatives 50,925 0 0 50,925 Guarantees 253 0 0 253 Cash outflows in total 125,283 313 0 125,596 in EUR K Cash outflows 31 Dec 2016 up to 1 year 1 – 5 years 5 – 10 years Borrowings 12,804 949 275 14,028 Trade payables 46,446 0 0 46,446 Other borrowings 27,628 683 0 28,311 Derivatives 48,253 401 0 48,654 Guarantees 343 0 0 343 Cash outflows in total 135,475 2,033 275 137,782 151 Sto SE & Co. KGaA | Consolidated annual financial statements of the Sto Group (IFRS) Under guarantees the occurrence of an obligation is not anticipated at present. The amounts of the derivatives shown correspond to the un-discounted cash flows. These payments can be processed on a gross or net basis. When levelling on a gross basis, only cash outflows are shown. In the following table, the cash outflows are compared to the corresponding cash inflows: in EUR K Cash inflows/outflows as at 31 December 2015 Total up to 1 year 1 – 5 years 5 – 10 years Inflow 50,463 0 0 50,463 Outflow 50,925 0 0 50,925 Balance –462 0 0 –462 in EUR K Cash inflows/outflows as at 31 December 2016 Total up to 1 year 1 – 5 years 5 – 10 years Inflow 48,252 343 0 48,595 Outflow 48,253 401 0 48,654 Balance –1 –58 0 –59 Credit and default risk arising from ligations. The Sto Group seeks to mitigate such financial assets risks by means of diversification and the careful The credit and default risk arising from financial selection of counterparties. At the moment, no assets entails the risk of a counterparty defaultcash investments or derivative financial assets ing and is limited to the maximum net carrying are overdue or impaired on account of defaults. amount of the receivable due from the defaulting counterparty. Allowance is made for risks from originated financial instruments by making adjustments to In connection with the investment of cash receivables. On account of its broad customer and holdings of derivative financial assets, the structure, there is no clustering of default risks Group is exposed to credit risks in the event of within the Sto Group. financial institutions failing to honour their ob152 Consolidated annual financial statements of the Sto Group (IFRS) | Sto SE & Co. KGaA Presentation of net carrying amounts of financial instruments measured at amortised costs of acquisition: in EUR K Carrying amount not due, overdue, not valuenot valueoverdue, adjusted adjusted value-adjusted 31 Dec 2015 Other financial assets 52,117 0 6,836 58,953 Trade receivables 78,611 22,472 22,996 124,079 Cash and cash equivalents 70,862 0 0 70,862 Financial assets measured at amortised costs of acquisition in total 201,590 22,472 29,832 253,894 in EUR K Carrying amount not due, overdue, not valuenot valueoverdue, adjusted adjusted value-adjusted 31 Dec 2016 Other financial assets 72,838 0 130 72,968 Trade receivables 77,598 22,650 23,426 123,674 Cash and cash equivalents 70,071 0 0 70,071 Financial assets measured at amortised costs of acquisition in total 220,507 22,650 23,556 266,713 The Sto Group assesses the credit rating of Collateral amounting to EUR 1,464 K was held individual customers to reduce the risks arising in the financial year for overdue and impaired from trade receivables. Information is obtained trade receivables (previous year: EUR 1,259 K). and regularly updated to assess the credit quality of financial assets which are neither overdue The financial assets measured at fair value are nor adjusted. On the basis of this and other neither overdue nor impaired. information, the financial assets are classified and credit limits defined. 153 Sto SE & Co. KGaA | Consolidated annual financial statements of the Sto Group (IFRS) Maturity analysis of overdue and not value-adjusted financial instruments: in EUR K overdue more than more than up to 30 days 60 days more than 30 days up to 60 days up to 90 days 90 days 31 Dec 2015 Other financial assets 0 0 0 0 0 Trade receivables 11,956 5,225 1,383 3,908 22,472 Overdue and not value-adjusted financial instruments in total 11,956 5,225 1,383 3,908 22,472 in EUR K overdue more than more than up to 30 days 60 days more than 30 days up to 60 days up to 90 days 90 days 31 Dec 2016 Other financial assets 0 0 0 0 0 Trade receivables 13,430 4,615 1,385 3,220 22,650 Overdue and not value-adjusted financial instruments in total 13,430 4,615 1,385 3,220 22,650 Currency risk in Germany and their subsequent selling and Foreign currency flows are determined in the delivery to foreign subsidiaries. Currency risks budget phase for the following year. On the occurred due to business completed in euros basis of the foreign currency payment flows, with subsidiaries outside the Euro zone, mainly suitable hedging strategies are created, agreed in Poland, Russia, Switzerland, Sweden, the upon with the relevant bodies, and impleCzech Republic, and Hungary. mented. The planned cash positions are hedged without exception through hedging instruments All non-functional currencies in which the congruent to the time and economic state from Group holds financial instruments are used as the area of derivatives. The currency hedge afrelevant risk variables in the sensitivity analysis fected CNY/EUR, CZK/EUR, HUF/EUR, RUB/EUR, stipulated by IFRS 7. SGD/EUR, TRY/EUR, USD/EUR as well as EUR/ CHF, EUR/CZK, EUR/GBP, EUR/HUF, EUR/NOK, The main currency risk in the Sto Group results EUR/PLN, EUR/SEK und USD/CAD. The changes from the change of the currency pair CNY/EUR. in fair value were recognised in the statement of If the Chinese renminbi had been 10 % lower/ profit and loss with an impact on profit and loss. higher against the euro, pre-tax earnings would have been up by EUR 273 K (previous year: EUR The main operative currency risks in the Sto 151 K higher), or down by EUR 223 K (previous Group are due to the manufacture of products year: EUR 124 K lower). 154 Consolidated annual financial statements of the Sto Group (IFRS) | Sto SE & Co. KGaA Interest rate risk Valuation of derivative financial The interest rate risk for the Sto Group results instruments from changes in market interest rates, parThe market values of the derivative financial ticularly for current and non-current liabilities instruments are determined on the basis of the subject to floating interest rates. tradability based on reference prices and valuation models and is presented as follows: Interest rate risks as defined in IFRS 7 essentially in EUR K 31 Dec 2016 31 Dec 2015 occur in the case of financial investments. Due to the short-term nature of the financial investNominal Market Nominal Market volume value total volume value total ments with a running period of up to one year, there is no interest rate risk for the Sto Group Forward exchange as at 31 December 2016. transactions/options 50,745 –40 41,438 462 Interest rate swaps/caps 1,176 –19 0 0 The volume of non-current, variable-rate borrowings is so low that a change of the market Derivative financial interest level by 100 basis points on 31 Deceminstruments in total 51,921 –59 41,438 462 ber 2016 would have had no significant impact on earnings (previous year: also insignificant). The nominal volume of a derivative hedge transaction is the notional reference amount for which the payments are derived. The hedged contract and the risk are not the same as the nominal volume but only reflect the exchange or interest rate change to which they refer. The market value is the amount which the Sto Group would have paid or received at the balance sheet date if the hedge had been settled. The increase in the nominal volume with the foreign currency forwards is based on an increased hedging of most associates of incoming or outgoing payments other than the functional currency. The residual maturity of the currency derivatives as a rule lies within a year. 155 Sto SE & Co. KGaA | Consolidated annual financial statements of the Sto Group (IFRS) (33) Contingencies in EUR K 2016 2015 Guarantees from the Sto Group to third parties 343 252 Reserve liability to cooperatives 1 1 Contingencies in total 344 253 (34) Litigation Neither Sto SE & Co. KGaA nor its Group companies are involved in any court litigation or arbitration proceedings which are liable to exert a significant influence on the Group’s economic situation or have done so in the past two years. There is no evidence that any such litigation or proceedings will arise in the future. Provisions in an appropriate amount have been set aside by the individual Group companies to allow for any expenses arising from other court litigation or arbitration proceedings. (35) Other financial obligations in EUR K 31 Dec 2015 Maturity within between after one year 1 – 5 years 5 years Obligations under rental contracts and operating leases 65,277 21,196 37,281 6,800 Obligations under maintenance contracts 5,298 3,826 1,464 8 Acceptance obligations 9,655 9,442 213 0 Other obligations 665 423 241 1 Other financial obligations in total 80,895 34,887 39,199 6,809 in EUR K 31 Dec 2016 Maturity within between after one year 1 – 5 years 5 years Obligations under rental contracts and operating leases 63,319 21,460 35,690 6,169 Obligations under maintenance contracts 5,177 3,296 1,881 0 Acceptance obligations 11,594 11,299 255 40 Other obligations 590 366 224 0 Other financial obligations in total 80,680 36,421 38,050 6,209 156 Consolidated annual financial statements of the Sto Group (IFRS) | Sto SE & Co. KGaA The obligations under rental contracts comprise primarily building rental contracts, while the obligations under leases relate to the vehicle fleet, equipment and IT hardware. There are no purchasing intentions at the end of the leasing contracts. Insofar as final payments are to be expected resulting from damages, provisions have been made. Of acceptance obligations, an amount of EUR 7,311 K (previous year: EUR 6,393 K) relates to items of tangible fixed assets. (36) Auditors’ fees The following fees paid to the auditors of the consolidated annual financial statement of the Sto Group, Ernst & Young GmbH, Wirtschafts­ prüfungsgesellschaft, Stuttgart/Germany, for services provided are recorded as expenses in 2016: in EUR K 2016 2015 Audits of financial statements 300 271 Tax consulting services 0 0 Other certification or valuation activities 7 22 Other services 61 11 Auditors’ fees in total 368 304 (37) Events after the balance sheet date He resigned from his position as representative In the Executive Board of STO Management of management employees on the Supervisory SE, which, as the personally liable partner of Board of Sto SE & Co. KGaA on 31 December Sto SE & Co. KGaA conducts its business, Jan 2016. Nissen, who was already inducted into the committee on 22 April 2016, took over the Between the end of the fiscal year and the point Technology division from Gerd Stotmeister, who at which this report was signed off, there were left the Executive Board voluntarily at the end no other events of particular note and with a of 2016. The new appointment took effect on significant impact on the earnings, financial, 1 January 2017. Jan Nissen was previously Head and asset situation of the Sto Group. of Materials Management within the Sto Group. 157 Sto SE & Co. KGaA | Consolidated annual financial statements of the Sto Group (IFRS) (38) Related party disclosures IAS 24 defines related parties as persons or entities liable to be influenced by the reporting entity or are capable of influencing the reporting entity in question. All business relations with related parties were conducted on arms-length terms. As at 31 December 2016, members of the Executive Board of STO Management SE and the Supervisory Board of Sto SE & Co. KGaA are members of the executive boards and supervisory boards of other companies with which Sto SE & Co. KGaA maintains relations as part of its ordinary business activities. All transactions with such companies are conducted on arms-length terms. The volume of deliveries and services, including net interest income, between companies in the Sto Group and related parties and persons are set out in the following table: in EUR K Rendered Received deliveries and deliveries and Receivables Liabilities Share services services from to 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 Inotec GmbH, Waldshut-Tiengen/Germany 47.5 % 77 6 3,696 4,745 662 408 102 156 STO Management SE 772 837 4,093 4,874 104 100 2,084 2,942 Stotmeister Beteiligungs GmbH 0 0 41 24 0 0 0 0 Miscellaneous 0 0 20 8 0 0 20 0 Interest payments were made to Stotmeister Beteiligungsgesellschaft mbH in the year under review to the amount of EUR 41 K (previous year: EUR 24 K). 158 Consolidated annual financial statements of the Sto Group (IFRS) | Sto SE & Co. KGaA (39) List of subsidiaries and investments as at 31 December 2016 Germany Capital share in % Name, registered office StoCretec GmbH, Kriftel/Germany 100 Verotec GmbH, Lauingen/Germany 100 Gefro Verwaltungs-GmbH & Co. KG, Stühlingen/Germany 100 Südwest Lacke + Farben GmbH & Co. KG, Böhl-Iggelheim/Germany 100 Südwest Lacke + Farben Verwaltungs-GmbH, Böhl-Iggelheim/Germany 100 VeroStone GmbH, Kirchheim/Germany 100 Innolation GmbH, Lauingen/Germany 100 Sto SMEE Beteiligungs GmbH, Stühlingen/Germany 100 Ströher GmbH, Dillenburg/Germany 50.1 Ströher Fliesen GmbH, Dillenburg/Germany 50.1 Ströher Produktions GmbH & Co. KG, Dillenburg/Germany 50.1 GEPADI Fliesen GmbH, Dillenburg/Germany 50.1 Sto BT GmbH, Stühlingen/Germany 100 Sto BTN GmbH, Stühlingen/Germany 100 For changes in the current year, Sto BTJ GmbH, Stühlingen/Germany 100 please refer to “General disclosures” Inotec GmbH, Waldshut-Tiengen/Germany 47.5 Note 4 “Companies consolidated”. 159 Sto SE & Co. KGaA | Consolidated annual financial statements of the Sto Group (IFRS) Non-Germany Capital share in % Name, registered office Sto Ges.m.b.H., Villach/Austria 100 Sto S.A.S., Bezons/France 100 Beissier S.A.S., La Chapelle La Reine/France 100 Innolation S.A.S., Amilly/France 100 Beissier S.A.U., Errenteria/Spain 100 Sto SDF Ibérica S.L.U., Mataró/Spain 100 Sto Isoned B.V., Tiel/Netherlands 100 Sto N.V., Asse/Belgium 100 Sto Italia Srl, Empoli/Italy 52 Sto Finexter OY, Vantaa/Finland 100 Sto Scandinavia AB, Linköping/Sweden 100 Sto Danmark A/S, Hvidovre/Denmark 100 Sto Norge AS, Oslo/Norway 100 Sto AG, Niederglatt/Switzerland 100 Sto Ltd., Paisley/Great Britain 100 Sto Sp. z o.o., Warsaw/Poland 100 Sto Epitöanyag Kft., Dunaharaszti/Hungary 100 Sto s.r.o., Dobřejovice/Czech Republic 100 STOMIX spol s.r.o., Skorosice/Czech Republic 100 STOMIX Slovensko s.r.o., Zvolen/Slovakia 100 OOO Sto, Moscow/Russia 100 OOO STOMIX Orel, Orel/Russia 100 Sto Yapı Sistemleri Sanayi ve Ticaret A.Ş., Istanbul/Turkey 100 Sto Gulf Building Material LLC., Dubai/UAE 49 Sto Corp., Atlanta/USA 100 Sto Canada Ltd., Etobicoke/Canada 100 Industrial y Comercial Sto Chile Ltda., Santiago de Chile/Chile 100 Sto Colombia S.A.S., Bogota D.C./Colombia 100 Sto Mexico S. de R.L. de C.V., Monterrey/Mexico 100 Sto Brasil Revestimentos e Participações Ltda., Itaquaquecetuba/Brazil 100 Sto Brasil Revestimentos e Fachadas Ltda., For changes in the current year, Itaquaquecetuba/Brazil 100 please refer to “General disclosures” Sto Corp. Latin America Inc., Panama/Panama 100 Note 4 “Companies consolidated”. Shanghai Sto Ltd., Shanghai/China 100 Langfang Sto Building Material Co. Ltd., Hebei/China 100 Wuhan Sto Building Material Co. Ltd., Wuhan/China 100 No restrictions apply with Sto SEA Pte. Ltd., Singapore/Singapore 100 regard to the liquidation of Sto SEA Sdn. Bhd., Masai/Malaysia 100 assets or the payment of Hesselberg Bygg AS, Moss/Norway 100 debts for a fully consolidated UAB TECH-COAT, Klaipėda/Lithuania 95 company within the Sto Hesselberg Sverige AB, Helsingborg/Sweden 100 Group. 160 Consolidated annual financial statements of the Sto Group (IFRS) | Sto SE & Co. KGaA (40) German Corporate Governance Code In December 2016, the Executive Board of the personally liable partner of Sto SE & Co. KGaA, STO Management SE, and the Supervisory Board of Sto SE & Co. KGaA issued the declaration of compliance with the recommendations of the Government Commission on German Corporate Governance Code in accordance with Section 161 of the German Companies Act and made it available to shareholders on the Internet page of Sto SE & Co. KGaA. (41) Remuneration of the Board of Directors and the Supervisory Board The remuneration paid to the members of the SE & Co. KGaA for the Supervisory Board of Executive Board in the fiscal year of 2016 comSTO Management SE for the 2016 fiscal year plies with the statutory provisions contained amounted to EUR 608 K (previous year: EUR in the German Companies Act. In the fiscal 555 K). year 2016, current due remunerations of the Executive Board totalled EUR 3,059 K (previous The members of the Supervisory Board will only year: EUR 3,779 K). Expenses for future benefits receive currently due payments for their activafter terminating the employment relationship ities on the committee. Excluded from this are (current service cost) amounted to EUR 213 K compensation and other payments to opera(previous year: EUR 233 K). Executive Board tions employee representatives pursuant to their remunerations thus totalled EUR 3,272 K (preemployment contracts. No compensation has vious year: EUR 4,012 K). As at 31 December been granted for personally rendered services 2016, the post-employment benefit provisions outside of committee activities by the members for the current members of the Executive Board of the Supervisory Board. amounted to EUR 175 K due to offsetting against plan assets and non-current financial The need for disclosure in accordance with liabilities (previous year: EUR 168 K). As at Section 314 No. 6a sentence 5-9 of the German 31 December 2016, post-employment benefit Commercial Code (HGB) has been dispensed provisions for former members of the Executive with pursuant to Section 314 (2) sentence 2 Board were valued at EUR 2,183 K (previous HGB, read in conjunction with Section 286 (5) year: EUR 2,206 K) due to offsetting against HGB. plan assets. Remuneration paid to former members of the Executive Board and the Supervisory Board came to EUR 423 K (previous year: EUR 332 K). The remunerations of the Supervisory Board of Sto SE & Co. KGaA and the compensation of expenditure in this regard as stipulated in Section 6 Paragraph 3 of the regulations of Sto 161 Sto SE & Co. KGaA | Consolidated annual financial statements of the Sto Group (IFRS) Members of the Executive Board of STO Management SE in the fiscal year of 2016 (personally liable partner of Sto SE & Co. KGaA): Rainer Hüttenberger Gerd Stotmeister Spokesman of the Executive Board responsible Chief Technology Officer responsible for Process for Marketing and Sales Sto Brand International Engineering, Innovation and Supply Chain Stein a. Rhein/Switzerland, Dipl.-Betriebswirt (FH) (until 31 December 2016) Member of the BOD of Sto Corp., Atlanta/USA Allensbach/Germany, Dipl.-Ing. (FH) Chairman of the BOD of Shanghai Sto Ltd., Curator of the Fraunhofer Institute for Shanghai/China Construction Physics (IBP), Stuttgart/Germany Chairman of the BOD of Sto Scandinavia AB, Member of the Advisory Board of Kliniken Linköping/Sweden Schmieder, Allensbach/Germany Chairman of the BOD of Sto Danmark A/S, Member of the General Assembly of Hvidovre/Denmark IHK Hochrhein-Bodensee/Germany Chairman of the BOD of Sto Yapı Sistemleri Sanayi ve Ticaret A.Ş, Istanbul/Turkey Rolf Wöhrle Member of the BOD of Sto Norge AS, Chief Financial Officer responsible for Finance, Oslo/Norway Controlling, IT, Legal and Internal Audit Member of the BOD of Sto Finexter OY, Bad Dürrheim/Germany, Dipl.-Betriebswirt (BA) Vantaa/Finland Chairman of the BOD of Hesselberg Bygg AS, Member of the BOD of Sto SEA Pte Ltd., Moss/Norway Singapore/Singapore Member of the BOD of Sto Scandinavia AB, Linköping/Sweden Michael Keller Member of the BOD of Sto Norge AS, Chief Sales Officer responsible for Sales Oslo/Norway Sto Brand Germany, Distribution and Member of the BOD of Sto Finexter OY, Central Services Vantaa/Finland Bonndorf/Germany, Ing.päd. (TU) Member of the BOD of Sto Danmark A/S, Member of the Administrative Board of Hvidovre/Denmark Beissier S.A.U., Errenteria/Spain Member of the BOD of Sto Ltd., Paisley/Great Britain Jan Nissen Chief Technology Officer responsible for Process Engineering, Innovation and Supply Chain (since 1 January 2017) Trossingen/Germany, Bachelor of Science Member of the Advisory Board of Inotec GmbH, Waldshut-Tiengen/Germany Member of the BOD of Shanghai Sto Ltd. Shanghai/China Member of the BOD of Sto SEA Pte Ltd., Singapore/Singapore 162 Consolidated annual financial statements of the Sto Group (IFRS) | Sto SE & Co. KGaA Members of the Supervisory Board of Sto SE & Co. KGaA in the fiscal year of 2016: Dr. Max-Burkhard Zwosta Head of the Fraunhofer Institute for Building Chairman of the Supervisory Board Physics, Stuttgart, Holzkirchen, Kassel, Wittnau/Germany, Chartered Accountant and Nuremberg, and Rosenheim/Germany Tax Consultant Member of the Supervisory Board of STO Member of the Supervisory Board of STO Management SE, Stühlingen/Germany Management SE, Stühlingen/Germany Deputy Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Brauerei Calcon AG, Munich/Germany Ganter GmbH & Co. KG, Freiburg i. Br./Germany Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Ganter Charles Stettler Grundstücks GmbH, Freiburg i. Br./Germany Stäfa/Switzerland Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Freicon AG, Banker/freelance Administrative Board Freiburg i. Br./Germany Deputy Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Chairman of the Advisory Board of alfer aluminSTO Management SE, Stühlingen/Germany ium Gesellschaft mbH, Wutöschingen/Germany President of the Administrative Board of Chairman of the Advisory Board of Walter Sto AG, Niederglatt-Zurich/Switzerland Maisch Familien Holding GmbH & Co. KG, President of the Administrative Board of Gaggenau/Germany Allco AG, Lachen-Zurich/Switzerland Member of the Supervisory Board of Testo President of the Administrative Board of SE & Co. KGaA, Lenzkirch/Germany InvestInvent AG, Zurich/Switzerland Member of the Supervisory Board of Testo Member of the Administrative Board of Management SE, Lenzkirch/Germany BZ Bank AG, Wilen/Switzerland Member of the Advisory Board of EGT AG, Member of the Administrative Board of Triberg/Germany Lienhardt & Partner Privatbank AG, Zurich/Switzerland Holger Michel Member of the Administrative Board of Deputy Chairman of the Supervisory Board and Intershop Holding AG, Zurich/Switzerland employee representative, Dresden/Germany Member of the Administrative Board of AIL Trade union secretary IG BCE Swiss-Austria Leasing AG, Zurich/Switzerland (until 29 February 2016) Member of the Administrative Board of Gadola Pensioner (since 1 March 2016) Holding AG, Grüningen-Zurich/Switzerland Member of the Administrative Board of Gertrud Eisele Wyler AG, Winterthur/Switzerland Rottweil/Germany Member of the Administrative Board of Epting Publisher Immobilien AG, Hombrechtikon/Switzerland Member of the Supervisory Board of STO Management SE, Stühlingen/Germany Jochen Stotmeister Grafenhausen/Germany Prof. Dr.-Ing. Klaus Sedlbauer Managing Director of Stotmeister Beteiligungs Rottach-Egern/Germany GmbH, Stühlingen/Germany Chairholder at the Institute of Building Physics of Chairman of the Supervisory Board of STO the Technical University Munich/Germany Management SE, Stühlingen/Germany 163 Sto SE & Co. KGaA | Consolidated annual financial statements of the Sto Group (IFRS) Member of the Supervisory Board of CellGenix Korea Co., Ltd., Chungung Dong/South Korea GmbH, Freiburg i. Br. Member of the Administrative Board of Wurth Member of the Advisory Board of Karl Wörwag, New Zealand Ltd., Auckland/New Zealand Lackund Farbenfabrik GmbH & Co. KG, Member of the Administrative Board of Würth Stuttgart/Germany Promotional Concepts AG, Chur/Switzerland Member of the Advisory Board of Paul Bauder Member of the Administrative Board of Würth GmbH & Co. KG, Stuttgart/Germany Logistics, Rorschach/Switzerland Member of the Supervisory Board of Wuerth Peter Zürn India Pvt. Ltd., Mumbai/India Osterburken/Germany Member of the Supervisory Board of Wuerth Member of the Management of the Würth China Co. Ltd., Shanghai/China Group, Künzelsau/Germany Member of the Supervisory Board of Wuerth Member of the Supervisory Board of STO Indonesia P.T., Jakarta/Indonesia Management SE, Stühlingen/Germany Member of the Supervisory Board of Würth Chairman of the Executive Board of Würth Szereléstechnika KFT, Budaörs/Hungary Belux N.V., Turnhout/Belgium Member of the Advisory Board of Würth Member of the Executive Board of Würth Técnica de Montagem Lda., Sintra/Portugal Hellas S.A., Athens/Greece Member of the Advisory Board of Würth Member of the Executive Board of Würth Australia Pty. Ltd., Dandenong South/Australia België N.V., Turnhout/Belgium Member of the Administrative Board of Würth Uwe Bruchmüller Svenska AB, Örebro/Sweden Employee representative, Thalheim/Germany Chairman of the Administrative Board of Head of Business Development for Water InovaChem Engineering AG, Technologies, Veolia Water Technologies Wetzikon/Switzerland Deutschland GmbH, Celle/Germany Chairman of the Administrative Board of Würth Chairman of the Advisory Board of TDE á Islandi ehf., Garðabær/Iceland Mitteldeutsche Bergbau Service GmbH, Chairman of the Administrative Board of Würth Espenhain/Germany Norge AS, Hagan/Norway Chairman of the Administrative Board of Würth Wolfgang Dell Phoenix S.r.l., Bolzano/Italy Employee representative, Hattersheim/Germany Member of the Administrative Board of AutoResponsible for Maintenance Plant Technology, com Diagnostic Partner AB, Trollhättan/Sweden Sto SE & Co. KGaA Member of the Administrative Board of Tunap International Trading Co., Ltd., Shanghai/China Lothar Hinz Member of the Administrative Board of Würth Employee representative, Reutlingen/Germany AG, Arlesheim/Switzerland Chairman of the Group Works Council and Member of the Administrative Board of Würth Chairman of the Works Council for the International AG, Chur/Switzerland Baden-Württemberg sales region of Sto SE & Member of the Administrative Board of Wurth Co. KGaA 164 Consolidated annual financial statements of the Sto Group (IFRS) | Sto SE & Co. KGaA Members of the Supervisory Board of STO Management SE in the fiscal year 2016 (personally liable partner of Sto SE & Co. KGaA): Barbara Meister Jochen Stotmeister Employee representative, Blumberg/Germany Chairman of the Supervisory Board Deputy Chairperson of the Group Employee Grafenhausen/Germany Representative Council and Chairperson of the Weizen Employee Representative Council, Charles Stettler Sto SE & Co. KGaA Deputy Chairman of the Supervisory Board Stäfa/Switzerland Jan Nissen (until 31 December 2016) Employee representative, Trossingen/Germany Dr. Max-Burkhard Zwosta Head of Materials Management within the Wittnau/Germany Sto Group (until 31 December 2016) Chief Technology Officer of STO Management Gertrud Eisele SE (since 1 January 2017) Rottweil/Germany Member of the Advisory Board of Inotec GmbH, Waldshut-Tiengen/Germany Prof. Dr.-Ing. Klaus Sedlbauer Member of the BOD of Shanghai Sto Ltd., Rottach-Egern/Germany Shanghai/China Member of the BOD of Sto SEA Pte Ltd., Peter Zürn Singapore/Singapore Osterburken/Germany Stühlingen/Germany, 11 April 2017 Sto SE & Co. KGaA represented by STO Management SE Executive Board Rainer Hüttenberger Michael Keller (Spokesman) Jan Nissen Rolf Wöhrle 165 Sto SE & Co. KGaA | Audit certificate Sto-Group Audit certificate Based on the final results of our audit of the the evidence supporting the disclosures in the consolidated financial statements and the books and records, the consolidated financial Group management report we have issued the statement and the Group management report following auditors’ report. are examined primarily on a test basis within “We have audited the consolidated annual the framework of the audit. The audit includes financial statement prepared by Sto SE & Co. assessing the annual financial statements of the KGaA, Stühlingen/Germany, comprising the companies included in consolidation, the destatement of profit and loss, the consolidated termination of the companies to be included in statement of other comprehensive income, the consolidation, the accounting and consolidation statement of financial position, the statement principles used and significant estimates made of changes in equity, the cash flow statement by the general partner, as well as evaluating the and the notes to the financial statements, tooverall presentation of the consolidated finangether with the Group management report for cial statements and Group management report. the fiscal year from 1 January until 31 DecemWe believe that our audit provides a reasonable ber 2016. The preparation of the consolidated basis for our opinion. financial statements and the Group manageOur audit did not give rise to any objections. ment report in accordance with IFRS as they are In our opinion, based on the findings of our to be applied in the EU and additionally Section audit, the consolidated financial statements 315a (1) of the HGB (German Commercial comply with the legal requirements and give Code) are the responsibility of the Company’s a true and fair view of the net assets, finanlegal representatives. Our responsibility is to cial position and results of operations of the express an opinion on the consolidated financial Group in accordance with IFRS as they are to be statements and the consolidated management applied in the EU and additionally Section 315a report based on our audit. (1) of the HGB (German Commercial Code). The We conducted our audit of the consolidated Group management report is consistent with financial statements in accordance with Section the consolidated financial statements, complies 317 HGB and the generally accepted German with legal regulations, and as a whole provides standards for the audit of financial statements a suitable view of the Group’s position and promulgated by the Institut der Wirtschaftssuitably presents the opportunities and risks of prüfer (IDW). Those standards require that we future development.“ plan and perform the audit such that misstatements significantly affecting the presentation of the net assets, financial position and results of Villingen-Schwenningen/Germany, operations in the consolidated financial state13 April 2017 ments in accordance with principles of proper accounting, and in the Group management report are detected with reasonable assurance. Ernst & Young GmbH Knowledge of the business activities and the Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft economic and legal environment of the Group and evaluations of possible misstatements are taken into account in the determination Dr. Wetzel Traub of audit procedures. The effectiveness of the Chartered Chartered accounting-related internal control system and accountant accountant 166 Consolidated annual Responsibility statement by the financial legal representatives of the Sto Group statements (IFRS) | Sto SE & Co. KGaA Sto Group Responsibility statement by the legal representatives To the best of our knowledge, and in accordance with the applicable reporting principles, the consolidated financial statements give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit and loss of the Group, and the Group management report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Group, together with a description of the principal opportunities and risks associated with the expected development of the Group. Stühlingen/Germany, 11 April 2017 Sto SE & Co. KGaA represented by STO Management SE Executive Board Rainer Hüttenberger (Spokesman) Michael Keller Jan Nissen Rolf Wöhrle 167 Financial calendar 2017 Electronic publication of the annual financial statements for 2016........ 28 April 2017 Interim report on the first half of 2017..................................................... 19 May 2017 Annual General Meeting 2017................................................................... 14 June 2017 Report on the first half of 2017................................................................. 31 August 2017 Interim report on the second half of 2017................................................ 17 November 2017 Electronic publication of the annual financial statements for 2017........ 27 April 2018 The annual financial statements of Sto SE & Co. KGaA (HGB) are available in electronic form at www.unternehmensregister.de. In addition, they are published on the website www.sto.de or may be requested in writing by post: Sto SE & Co. KGaA F-S department Ehrenbachstraße 1 D-79780 Stühlingen This report contains forward-looking statements which are based on Management’s current assumptions and estimates concerning future developments. Such statements are subject to risks and uncertainties which Sto cannot control or estimate precisely. If any uncertainty arises or the assumptions on which these statements are based prove to be incorrect, actual results may differ significantly from these statements. Sto is under no obligation to update forward-looking statements to incorporate any events which come to light after the publication of this report. Publisher’s details Published by Sto SE & Co. KGaA, Stühlingen/Germany Concept and design Straub Druck+Medien AG Text Redaktionsbüro tik GmbH Printing Straub Druck+Medien AG Photographic credits Title image: Martin Baitinger, Böblingen/Germany Page 2, 10 bottom, 11, 22, 68: Martin Baitinger, Böblingen/Germany Page 7, 8, 9, 24, 40, 41, 43, 71, 73: Sto SE & Co. KGaA, Stühlingen/Germany Page 10 top: R. Bryant, Arcaid Images, London/Great Britain Page 12: Bernd Schumacher, Freiburg i. Br./Germany Page 23, 74: STEP-ANI-Motion, Cologne/Germany Page 44: Verotec GmbH, Lauingen/Germany Page 70: Christoph Große, Berlin/Germany / Sto Foundation 168 Headquarters Subsidiaries – national Sto SE & Co. KGaA StoCretec GmbH Verotec GmbH SÜDWEST Lacke + Farben VeroStone GmbH Ehrenbachstraße 1 Gutenbergstr. 6 Hanns-Martin-Schleyer-Straße 1 GmbH & Co. KG Mergentheimer Straße DE-79780 Stühlingen DE-65830 Kriftel DE-89415 Lauingen/Donau Iggelheimer Str. 13 DE-97268 Kirchheim Telephone +49 7744 57-0 Telephone +49 6192 401104 Telephone +49 9072 990-0 DE-67459 Böhl-Iggelheim Telephone +49 9366 82-0 infoservice@sto.com info.stocretec.de@sto.com infoservice.verotec@sto.com Telephone +49 6324 709-0 info@vero-stone.de www.sto.com www.stocretec.de www.verotec.de info@suedwest.de www.vero-stone.de www.suedwest.de Branches/Sales Centres/ STRÖHER GmbH Ströher Fliesen GmbH GEPADI Fliesen GmbH Holding companies – distribution partners Ströherstraße 2-10 Ströherstraße 2-10 Kasseler Straße 41 national DE-35683 Dillenburg DE-35683 Dillenburg DE-35683 Dillenburg Addresses and information available Inotec GmbH Telephone: +49 2771 3 91-0 Telephone: +49 2771 3 91-0 Telephone: +49 2771 3 91-0 from: Waldshuter Straße 25 info@stroeher.de info@stroeherliving.de home+style@gepadi.de Telephone +49 7744 57-1010 DE-79761 Waldshut-Tiengen www.stroeher.de www.stroeherliving.de www.gepadi.de Telephone +49 7741 6805-0 infoservice@inotec-gmbh.com www.inotec-gmbh.com Subsidiaries – international Belgium France Norway Singapore Turkey Sto NV Sto S.A.S. Sto Norge AS Sto SEA Pte. Ltd. Sto Yapı Sistemleri Sanayi ve Z.5 Mollem 43 224, rue Michel Carré Waldemar Thranes gate 98 A 159 Sin Ming Road, #06-02 Ticaret A.Ş. BE-1730 Asse FR-95872 Bezons Cedex NO-0175 Oslo Amtech Building Atatürk Cad. Yakut Sok. No:8 Telephone +32 2 4530110 Telephone +33 1 34345700 Telephone +47 6681 3500 SG-Singapore 575625 TR-34815 Beykoz, Istanbul info.be@sto.com mailsto.fr@sto.com info.no@sto.com Telephone +65 64 533080 Telephone +90 216 330 51 00 www.sto.be www.sto.fr www.stonorge.no info.sg@sto.com info.tr@sto.com www.sto-sea.com www.sto.com.tr Brazil Italien Norway Sto Brasil Revestimentos e Sto Italia Srl Hesselberg Bygg AS Sweden U.K. and Ireland Fachadas Ltda. Via G. di Vittorio, 1/3 Postboks 1023 Sto Scandinavia AB Sto Ltd. Rua Flor de Noiva, 886 Zona Ind. le Terrafino NO-1510 Moss Gesällgatan 6 2 Gordon Avenue Quinta da Boa Vista IT-50053 Empoli (Fl) Telephone +47 6927 6912 SE-582 77 Linköping Hillington Park BR-08597 630 Itaquaquecetuba, Telephone +39 0571 94701 bygg@sto.com Telephone +46 13 377100 GB-Glasgow G52 4TG Sao Paulo info.it@sto.com www.bygg.hesselberg.no kundkontakt@sto.com Telephone +44 141 892 8000 Telephone +55 11 2145 0011 www.stoitalia.it www.sto.se info.uk@sto.com sto@stobrasil.com.br Austria www.sto.co.uk www.argamont.com.br Canada Sto Ges.m.b.H. Slovak Republic Sto Canada Ltd. Richtstr. 47 STOMIX Slovensko s.r.o. Hungary Chile 1821 Albion Rd. #1 AT-9500 Villach Môtovská cesta 276 Sto Épitöanyag Kft. Industrial y Comercial Sto Etobicoke Telephone +43 4242 33133-0 SK-960 01 Zvolen Jedlik Ányos u. 17 Chile Ltda. CA-ON M9W 5w8 info@sto.at Telephone +421 905 770 774 HU-2330 Dunaharaszti Volcán Lascar Oriente 781 Telephone: +1 800 221-2397 www.sto.at info@stomix.sk Telephone +36 24 510210 Parque Industrial Lo Boza marketingsupport@stocorp.com www.stomix.sk info.hu@sto.com CL-Pudahuel-Santiago www.stocorp.ca Poland www.sto.hu Telephone +56 2 949 35 93 Sto Sp. z o.o. Spain info@stochile.com Columbia ul. Zabraniecka 15 Beissier S.A.U. USA www.stochile.com Sto Colombia S.A.S. PL-03-872 Warsaw Txirrita Maleo 14 Sto Corp. Calle 79 # 68H-17 Telephone +48 22 5116102 ES-20100 Errenteria 3800 Camp Creek Parkway China CO-Bogota D.C. info.pl@sto.com Telephone +34 902 100 250 Building 1400, Suite 120 Shanghai Sto Ltd. Telephone +57 1 7451280 www.sto.pl beissier@beissier.es Atlanta, Georgia 30331 288 Qingda Road info@stocolombia.com www.beissier.es Telephone +1 800 221-2397 Pudong www.stocolombia.com Russia marketingsupport@stocorp.com CN-201201 Shanghai OOO Sto Spain www.stocorp.com Telephone +86 2158972295 Malaysia Ul. Bolshaya Yakimanka 31 Sto SDF Ibérica S.L.U. www.sto.com.cn Sto SEA Sdn. Bhd. RU-119180 Moscow Riera del Fonollar 13 UAE No. 15, Jalan Teknologi 3/3A, Telephone +7 495 974-1584 ES-08830 Sant Boi de Llobregat Sto Gulf Building Material LLC. Denmark Surian Industrian Park, info.ru@sto.com (Barcelona) Citadel Tower Sto Danmark A/S Kota Damansara www.sto.ru Telephone +34 93 7415 972 PO Box 393488 Avedøreholmen 48 MY-47810 Petaling Jaya, Selangor info.es@sto.com AE-Dubai DK-2650 Hvidovre Telephone +603 8070 8133 Russia www.sto.es Telephone +971 45 51 55 61 Telephone +45 70270143 www.sto-sea.com OOO STOMIX OREL www.sto.com kundekontakt@sto.com ul.Tscheskaya, d.6 Czech Republic www.stodanmark.dk Mexico RU-302525 Orel Sto s.r.o. Sto Mexico, S. de R.L. de C.V. Telephone +7 4862 363 737 Čestlice 271 Finland Prol.Reforma #51-803 orelinfo@stomix.ru CZ-251 70 Dobřejovice Sto Finexter OY Paseo de las Lomas. Santa Fe, www.stomix.ru Telephone +420 225 996 311 Mestarintie 9 Álvaro Obregón. Mexico, D.F. 01330 info.cz@sto.com Distribution partners – international FI-01730 Vantaa Telephone +52 55 6384099 Switzerland www.sto.cz Telephone +358 207659 191 info@stomexico.com Sto AG Addresses and information available asiakaspalvelu@sto.com Czech Republic from: Südstrasse 14 www.sto.fi Netherlands STOMIX spol. s r.o. Telephone +49 7744 57-1131 CH-8172 Niederglatt/ZH Sto Isoned BV Skorošice 197 Telephone +41 44 8515-353 France Lingewei 107 CZ-790 65 Skorošice sto.ch@sto.com Beissier S.A.S. NL-4004 LH Tiel Telephone +420 584 484 111 www.stoag.ch Quartier de la Gare Telephone +31 344 620666 info@stomix.cz FR-77760 La Chapelle la Reine info.nl@sto.com www.stomix.cz Telephone +33 1 60396110 www.sto.nl formation@beissier.fr www.beissier.fr Headquarters Sto SE & Co. KGaA Ehrenbachstraße 1 D-79780 Stühlingen Head office Telephone +49 7744 57-0 Fax +49 7744 57-2178 Info service Telephone +49 7744 57-1010 Fax +49 7744 57-2010 infoservice@sto.com www.sto.com Printed in Germany Rev. no. 01/05.17 Art. no. 09673-116
