Pax World Management LLC Pax World Management LLC 2016 Impact Report INDEX 1. About us 4 2. About this Report 4 3. CEO statement of continued support for the UN Global Compact and its ten principles 5 4. Investing for Impact 6 a. Impact Investing 6 b. Investing in Women 8 c. Addressing Climate Change 11 d. Montréal Carbon Pledge 13 e. Engagement 13 f. Proxy Voting 16 g. Public Policy & Advocacy 16 5. Our Environmental Impact 18 6. Diversity & Inclusion 20 7. Promoting Family-friendly Workplaces 21 8. Employees 22 a. Work/Life Benefits 23 b. Occupational Safety 23 9. Community Involvement 23 a. Volunteer Work 23 b. Charitable Donations/Sponsorships 24 c. Global Citizen Program 24 10. Memberships & Affiliations 25 11. Corporate Governance 26 a. Customers 26 12. Appendices 27 1. UN Global Compact Communication on Progress Index 27 2. Historical Chart of Shareholder Proposals (2009-2017) 30 3. KPI Chart 33 4. Historical Pay Equity Data 33 5. Water Restoration Certificates from Bonneville Environmental Foundation (BEF) 34 6. Carbon offset confirmation from NativeEnergy 35 7. NH Women's Foundation: 2016 Issue Brief 36 2 | PAX WORLD 2016 IMPACT REPORT KEY TERMS Ceres: a coalition of investors and public interest groups working to address sustainability issues CDP: Carbon Disclosure Project COP21: refers to the 2015 United Nations Climate Change Conference CSR: Corporate Social Responsibility EEOC: U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission ESG: Environmental, Social & Governance ICCR: Interfaith Center on Corporate Responsibility INCR: Investor Network on Climate Risk Pax World Management LLC: Pax World PRI: Principles for Responsible Investment (f/k/a United Nations PRI or UNPRI) SEC: U.S. Securities & Exchange Commission UN Global Compact or UNGC: United Nations Global Compact 3 | PAX WORLD 2016 IMPACT REPORT ABOUT US: Pax World is a leader in the field of sustainable investing, which is the full integration of KEY TAKEAWAYS environmental, social and governance (ESG) factors into investment analysis, security selection and portfolio construction. By combining rigorous fundamental financial analysis with equally • Pax World Management LLC is a leader in rigorous ESG analysis, Pax World seeks to identify forward-thinking companies that are leaders in sustainable investing and their industries, meet positive standards of corporate responsibility, and focus on the long term. we are committed to continuously improve In developing and managing investment solutions, we seek to serve a growing community our own business policies of investment advisors, institutions and individual investors who believe that a company’s and practices to more effectively address astute management of its impact on the environment and society as well as its own operational environmental, social and governance are essential factors in its long-term success. corporate governance issues. Pax World launched the first socially responsible mutual fund in America in 1971. The fund provided investors a vehicle that allowed them to align their investments with their values and • We seek to invest in ways empowered them to advocate that corporations establish and meet high standards of social that promote positive social and environmental change. and environmental responsibility. That pioneering work helped guide the development of the sustainable investing industry. • Pax World has long been a recognized leader in Today, Pax World is the investment adviser to a growing family of mutual funds. As of December investing in women. In 31, 2016, Pax World advised funds with roughly $4.1 billion in assets under management for 2016, our gender diversity and pay equity engageindividuals, financial advisors, and institutional investors. ments had an impact at several companies. • We seek to conduct business in a way that Signatory: April 4, 2007 minimizes our environmental footprint while enhancing stakeholder value for our customers, employees, Signatory: February 1, 2010 Signatory: December 1, 2015 suppliers and communities. We have committed to measure, analyze and ABOUT THIS REPORT: reduce our contributions to global climate change Pax World has publicly published sustainability data since we became a signatory to the UN Global and consumption of Compact in 2010. In March 2014, Pax World published its first Corporate Social Responsibility resources, including energy, water and materials. (CSR) report. This report covers Pax World’s activities for calendar year 2016. We invite you to review these reports to learn more about our company. As always, we appreciate any feedback to help us improve our sustainability reporting process. E-mail: info@paxworld.com —or— Pax World Mutual Funds ATTN: CSR Committee 30 Penhallow Street, Suite 400 Portsmouth, NH 03801 CONTINUED 4 | PAX WORLD 2016 IMPACT REPORT CEO statement of continued support for the UN Global Compact and its ten principles Pax World is pleased to share our 2016 Impact Report and our UN Global Compact Communication on Progress with our stakeholders. The combined report reviews our progress as an asset manager committed to sustainable investing and as a business that seeks to operate in a manner consistent with the ESG standards we integrate into our portfolios. In addition, the report identifies actions Pax World has taken during the reporting period to implement the UN Global Compact principles in each of the four issue areas (human rights, labor, environment, and anti-corruption). At Pax World, our work continues to be focused on sustainability in several ways: by integrating ESG standards into our portfolios, engaging with portfolio companies, innovating new sustainable investment products and by managing our own operations in a responsible manner. We also work to be meaningful contributors to national and international discussions about key sustainability issues. Moving forward, we will do everything we can to continuously improve our performance and to live up to the vision and values that we have long held at Pax World. I am pleased to reaffirm Pax World’s support of the UN Global Compact. Thank you for taking the time to read our report. Sincerely, Joseph F. Keefe President and CEO Pax World Management LLC CONTINUED 5 | PAX WORLD 2016 IMPACT REPORT INVESTING FOR IMPACT: Pax World seeks to promote positive social and environmental change. Impact Investing at Pax World includes investing in: Community-based Companies developing Companies financial institutions innovative solutions to promoting gender promoting small global sustainability diversity and businesses, health challenges women’s leadership care, education, and housing Investing in Sustainable Solutions • Pax Global Environmental Markets Fund (PGRNX)1 is fossil fuel free and invests in companies addressing global sustainability challenges: energy efficiency and renewable energy, As of December 31, 2016, Pax World held water and pollution control, waste and resource approximately management, and sustainable food and agriculture. • Pax Ellevate Global Women’s Index Fund $101.9 million in 58 direct impact investments 2 (PXWEX) invests in the highest rated companies in the world when it comes to advancing women’s offered by 45 leadership. different institutions. • Pax Core Bond Fund (PAXBX)3 is an investmentgrade fixed income portfolio that includes green bonds and other high-impact bonds that promote positive environmental and social outcomes. • Direct Impact Investments: In addition to green bonds, Pax World also works to achieve measurable impacts by investing in short-term notes and certificates of deposit issued by Community Development Financial Institutions (CDFIs) and credit unions. 1 The Global Environmental Markets Fund’s investment objective is to seek long term growth of capital by investing in innovative companies around the world whose businesses and technologies focus on environmental markets, including alternative energy and energy efficiency; water infrastructure technologies and pollution control; environmental support services and waste management technologies; and sustainable food, agriculture and forestry. 2 The Global Women’s Index Fund seeks investment returns that closely correspond to or exceed the price and yield performance, before fees and expenses, of the Pax Global Women’s Leadership Index* (the “Women’s Index”), while maintaining risk characteristics that Pax Ellevate Management LLC (“PEM”) believes are generally similar to those of the Women’s Index. 3 The Pax Core Bond Fund seeks income and conservation of principal and is designed to provide investors with diversified core fixed income exposure and competitive risk-adjusted returns while promoting positive environmental and social impact. * A custom index based on MSCI World. CONTINUED 6 | PAX WORLD 2016 IMPACT REPORT Direct Impact Investments IMPACT ISSUER TYPES As of 12/31/16 1.9% Green Bonds 5.5 % Corporate Bonds 31.2% 17.5% $ Agency Bonds $ Municipal Bonds 18.8% Community Investment Notes/CDs 25.2% Mortgage Backed Securities 2.8% IMPACT FOCUS AREAS As of 12/31/16 5.3 % Environment & Energy 5. 5% Sustainable Products & Services 33.1% 11.6% Sustainable Infrastructure Agriculture 16.6% Community Development Housing 25.2% Education Each Pax World Fund may invest up to 5% of assets in community development financial institutions. We are currently focused on utilizing these vehicles in the Pax High Yield Bond Fund and the Pax Core Bond Fund. Examples of Direct Impact Investments: All holdings as of 12/31/2016 Investment Impact Fund the company’s environmental business initiative to help address climate Bank of America change, reduce demands on natural resources and advance lower-carbon economic Green Bonds solutions Calvert Foundation Notes Channel investor capital to high-impact community development initiatives Asian Development Bank Seek to fund projects that mitigate greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions and adapt Green Bonds to the consequences of climate change Finance solar installations and support SolarCity’s SolarCity Solar Bonds renewable energy business operations Fannie Mae Green Provide mortgage financing to apartment buildings and cooperatives to finance Mortgage Backed Securities energy and water efficiency property improvements CONTINUED 7 | PAX WORLD 2016 IMPACT REPORT INVESTING IN WOMEN: Pax World is a leader in investing in women and promoting greater gender diversity on corporate boards. In our view, engaging with companies on the issue of gender diversity is not only the right thing to do, but the smart thing to do. With the business case for gender diversity well-established, our engagements focus on persuading companies to take advantage of the benefits associated with gender diversity, including improved decision-making, oversight and financial performance.4 We strive to impact corporate behavior through multiple strategies including: proxy company shareholder voting dialogues proposals Proxy Voting: Say No to All Male Boards Our proxy voting guidelines stipulate that we vote against all male board slates and we generally will not support a full board slate unless it includes at Pax World least two women. Since 2010, Pax World has voted has voted against against over 1,000 board slates due to insufficient over 1,000 gender diversity, including more than 120 during the most recent proxy season. After voting, we write board slates due to insufficient to these companies explaining the reason for our gender diversity, including opposition and suggest steps the companies can take to put policies and practices in place to achieve 120 greater board diversity. In 2016, our letters opened during the most recent dialogues at several companies. proxy season. CONTINUED 4 Vivian Hunt, Dennis Layton and Sara Prince, “Diversity Matters,” McKinsey & Company, November 24, 2014. 8 | PAX WORLD 2016 IMPACT REPORT INVESTING IN WOMEN, continued: Shareholder Proposals: Board Diversity Over the last five years, Pax World has Pax World has filed gender diversity filed board diversity proposals asking proposals at eight companies to adopt gender diversity 8 companies policies for their boards. Each of these proposals yielded meaningful dialogues in the past five years, and with the companies that ultimately resulted 5 companies in changes to their corporate governance documents specifying gender diversity as a have subsequently announced criterion in all director searches, which we new female directors. believe is a crucial step towards achieving a diverse and inclusive board. Companies at which Pax World has filed diversity proposals Proxy Year Company Outcome 2016 Cognizant Technology Solutions Amended governance policies 2015 eBay, Inc.* Amended governance policies; female director appointment in 2015 2014 Territorial Bancorp Amended governance policies 2014 Oasis Petroleum Amended governance policies 2013 Stericycle, Inc. Amended governance policies; female director appointment in 2015 2013 Hospitality Properties Trust Amended governance policies; female director appointment in 2015 2012 Riverbed Technology** Amended governance policies; female director appointment in 2013 2012 Roper Technologies Amended governance policies; two female director appointments in 2015 Shareholder Proposals: Pay Equity Companies that are committed to pay equity are better positioned to achieve greater gender diversity and attract and retain talented employees. Pax World has filed or co-filed nine shareholder resolutions on pay equity, requesting the disclosure of the results of pay equity assessments. So far, three of these companies, Apple, Amazon and eBay, publicly disclosed the results of their gender pay assessments and signed the White House Equal Pay Pledge committing to gender pay equity. We also wrote to 32 technology companies held across our funds, asking for information on how they are addressing pay equity. This effort opened dialogues with several companies. And in February 2016, Pax Ellevate Management, a joint venture of Pax World and Ellevate Asset Management, sent a petition for rulemaking to the SEC urging the agency to require public companies to disclose gender pay ratios on an annual basis. CONTINUED *Lead filers of this resolution were Trillium Asset Management & the New York State Common Retirement Fund **Company became private in April 2015 9 | PAX WORLD 2016 IMPACT REPORT INVESTING IN WOMEN, continued: Companies at which Pax World has filed pay equity proposals Proxy Year Company Outcome 2016 Apple, Inc Disclosed results of gender pay assessment 2016 eBay, Inc.*** Disclosed results of gender pay assessment 2016 Amazon.com*** Disclosed results of gender pay assessment Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Bank of New York Mellon, 2017 Qualcomm, Inc., Verizon Communications, Mastercard,*** In process; outcomes pending AT&T Inc. Partnerships Women’s Empowerment Principles (WEPs) – As a signatory to the WEPs and a member of the WEPs Leadership Group, which Pax World President & CEO Joe Keefe co-chairs, we have conducted a series of letter writing campaigns urging companies to endorse and implement the WEPs. A set of practical guidelines for businesses on how to empower women in the workplace, marketplace and community, over 1,000 companies globally have endorsed the WEPs. Collaborative Engagements: Thirty Percent Coalition – Pax World is a founding member and currently sits on the Institutional Investor Committee of the Thirty Percent Coalition. The Coalition seeks to assure that women hold 30% of board seats across public companies in the U.S. CONTINUED *** Lead filer of this resolution was Arjuna Capital 10 | PAX WORLD 2016 IMPACT REPORT ADDRESSING CLIMATE CHANGE: Climate change is one of the most critical issues facing the world today. We believe it is also a particularly significant issue for We seek to influence corporate investors. policies on climate change through: The costs of failing to address climate change are estimated to have an average value at risk of $4.2 trillion globally—representing 6% of the current market capitalization of all the world’s stock markets.5 Proxy Voting That’s why we actively engage with companies on climate-related issues and hold them accountable for their climate impact. In the past year, we focused our engagement efforts on working with companies to reduce their carbon emissions and establish greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions reduction targets. Shareholder A Legacy of Public Policy Advocacy Proposals Advocacy Impact 2007: Pax World was one of 2010: As a result of our efforts and 22 investors and nonprofits that the efforts of others, SEC issued petitioned the Securities and guidance to firms on reporting Exchange Commission (SEC) material information on climate to provide guidance to firms on change. Public Policy reporting material information on climate change, both risks and Advocacy opportunities. 2010: Pax World advocated for 2011: Following an active comment the Environmental Protection Agency period, the EPA required reporting (EPA) to require reporting GHG GHG emissions. emissions. Proxy Voting Partnerships Guidelines CDP – Pax World is part of a coalition of over 820 institutional investors As shareholders, we have an holding $95 trillion in assets who annually urge companies to report on opportunity to vote on company resolutions. We will generally vote in climate risks and opportunities and take steps to reduce emissions. More favor of proposals that request that than 5,500 companies worldwide disclosed environmental information companies disclose potential risks through CDP in 2015. from climate change, or that request disclosure or development of policies Investor Network on Climate Risk (INCR) – Pax World is a member of or programs to mitigate climate INCR, a network of more than 110 institutional investors representing change risk and impact. more than $13 trillion in assets committed to addressing the risks and seizing the opportunities resulting from climate change and other sustainability challenges. CONTINUED 5 The Economist, Intelligence Unit, 2015. 11 | PAX WORLD 2016 IMPACT REPORT ADDRESSING CLIMATE CHANGE, continued: Shareholder Proposals The Issue Why it Matters Our Recent Proposals GHG emissions must be reduced by 55 percent Nucor Corporation (2016) – We asked this steel globally by 2050 to stabilize global temperatures.6 producer to set goals to reduce GHG emissions. GHG emissions goals can benefit companies by Ultra Petroleum Corporation (2015) – We enabling them to reduce costs, build resilient supply requested that this natural gas company publish Reducing GHG chains, and manage operational and reputational a sustainability report annually, including goals for Emissions risk. reducing GHG emissions. As global demand for energy grows, we believe companies should diversify their energy sources UPS (2017) and Verizon Communications beyond fossil fuels to include renewable energy. (2016) – We requested that these companies set targets to increase renewable energy sourcing and/ Renewable Energy Renewable energy sourcing can benefit companies or production. Sourcing and by reducing their operating costs and limiting their Production exposure to natural resource market volatility. Alphabet Inc. (2017), ConocoPhilips (2016), Devon Energy Corporation (2014) – We requested reports on lobbying and urged the Lobbying activities can have significant influence companies to determine if their public policy efforts on climate policy and are increasingly coming support or oppose climate change legislation or under scrutiny. regulation. Climate Change We encourage transparency and accountability in ConocoPhilips (2017) We requested that Influence and the use of employee time and corporate funds to the company report on whether its incentive Accountability influence climate-related legislation and regulation. compensation programs for senior executives promote resilience to low-carbon scenarios associated with efforts to limit global temperature rises to below 2 degrees Celsius. American Electric Power (2016) We requested a report regarding potential financial losses to the company associated with stranded fossil fuel electric COP21 marked the beginning of the transition from generating facilities. an industrial age economy reliant on fossil fuels, to a Duke Energy Corporation (2016) – We sustainable, low-carbon economy. requested a report on how the company is adapting Transitioning to We believe it is critical that companies adapt their its business model to increase deployment of a Low-Carbon distributed low-carbon electricity resources. business models now so that they are well-positioned Economy for a low-carbon future. Dominion Resources (2017) and Occidental Petroleum (2017) – We requested that the companies produce assessments of the long-term portfolio impacts of likely climate change scenarios. CONTINUED 6 IPCC, 2014: Summary for policymakers. http://ipcc-wg2.gov/AR5/images/uploads/WG2AR5_SPM_FINAL.pdf 12 | PAX WORLD 2016 IMPACT REPORT MONTRÉAL CARBON PLEDGE: As signatories of the Montréal Carbon Pledge, we committed to measuring and publicly disclosing the carbon intensity of our investment portfolios on an annual basis. We believe that carbon intensity is a useful quantitative tool that can inform the creation and implementation of a broader climate change strategy. First, we used carbon intensity data from MSCI for each company held in our portfolios, which is determined by dividing its reported or estimated greenhouse gas emissions by its revenue. We then calculated a weighted average carbon intensity using portfolio weights as of December 30, 2016. Finally, we compared the weighted average carbon intensity of each fund with the weighted average of the carbon intensity of each fund’s benchmark index. Four of Pax World’s funds, the Large Cap Fund, the ESG Beta Quality Fund, the ESG Beta Dividend Fund and the Global Environmental Markets Fund, have a weighted average carbon intensity that is below their benchmark indexes or comparable to their benchmark indexes. We consider our funds to be comparable to their benchmarks if their weighted average carbon intensity is within 5 percentage points of the intensity of their benchmark. The MSCI International ESG Index Fund has a higher weighted average carbon intensity than its benchmark index (MSCI EAFE ESG), but its weighted average carbon intensity is comparable to the MSCI EAFE index. We were unable to measure the carbon footprint of our Mid Cap Fund, Small Cap Fund, Core Bond Fund or our High Yield Bond Fund due to a lack of sufficient, accurate information on carbon intensity in those investment universes. Also, we did not measure the carbon footprint of the Pax Ellevate Global Women’s Index Fund, which invests in the Pax Global Women’s Leadership Index*, an index of companies around the world that are leaders in advancing women. Carbon intensity plays a minimal role in the construction of the Index on which the Fund is based. Carbon emissions is just one of many indicators of carbon-related risks in a portfolio. For example, our actively managed portfolios exclude coal and tar sands companies—the most carbon-intensive fossil fuels—which is another way we seek to reduce carbon-related risk. We believe that high carbon emissions are a risk factor, and as shareholders we want companies in our portfolios to proactively take steps to mitigate those risks. *A custom index based on the MSCI World Index. One cannot invest directly in an index. ENGAGEMENT: At Pax World, we believe engaged shareowners can play an important role in improving the financial, environmental, social and governance performance of the companies they are invested in, which is why we: • Vote shareholder proxies in accordance with our ESG criteria • Engage with a company’s management in dialogue on issues of concern • Initiate or support shareholder resolutions at annual stockholders’ meetings aimed at persuading companies to adopt higher standards of corporate responsibility • Support public policy initiatives that promote greater corporate sustainability, transparency and accountability CONTINUED 13 | PAX WORLD 2016 IMPACT REPORT In addition to the major engagements mentioned above, Pax World has also engaged with many other companies in 2016: Climate Change: • Pax World sent letters to eight small and mid-cap companies urging them to provide information through the CDP platform regarding their management of climate change. The target companies have either never responded to the CDP questionnaire, or have declined to respond. Pax World believes that leading companies report to CDP, which we consider to be an indicator of management quality. Companies that received the letter include: Concho Resources, EQT Corp, Hologic, Genuine Parts Company, Equity Residential, Citrix Systems, Antero Resources and Alleghany Corp. Our letters resulted in a dialogue with Concho Resources. The company indicated it was trying to understand how investors use CDP information, and how peer companies responded to the survey. The company is in the process of developing ESG disclosure and anticipates it will have disclosure available on its website in 2017. • As part of our support of RE100 (a collaborative, global initiative of influential businesses committed to 100% renewable electricity, working to massively increase corporate demand for renewable energy), we signed on to letters to 35 companies asking them to join to the RE100 campaign. Companies that received the letter include: Associated British Goods, Burberry Group, Diageo, J Sainsbury, NEXT, Royal Mail, Tesco and Vodafone Group. • Pax World signed on to a letter requesting information on how companies are managing energy and water efficiency and eliminating waste. Companies that received the letter include: Statoil, Spectra Energy Corp, National Grid, BMW, and Air Liquide. • Pax World signed on to a letter coordinated by the Union of Concerned Scientists to Chevron and Exxon Mobil seeking greater information about the companies’ policies and disclosures regarding financial risks related to climate change and encouraged them to enhance such disclosure in their regulatory reporting. Pax World also signed a letter coordinated by Ceres to Exxon and Chevron about their efforts to influence California climate change policies. • Pax World signed a letter coordinated by Public Citizen seeking information from Cloud Peak Energy about its pricing transaction data of coal the company produces and sells from land owned by the federal government, and details on how coal extracted from federal land is valued for royalty purposes. Cloud Peak Energy and others have drawn scrutiny for selling coal to subsidiary companies at below market prices, thereby avoiding royalties on the full market price of coal as the law requires. By doing so, the letter alleges that taxpayers are bilked out of hundreds of millions of dollars of revenue. • Pax World signed a letter coordinated by the Sainsbury Family Charitable Trusts to the Chairmen of BP, Chevron, Eni, Exxon, Shell, Statoil and Total urging them to integrate the COP21 target of limiting temperature rises to ‘well below’ 2 degrees into their business models. The letter was to be printed in the Financial Times. Gender Diversity: • Pax World had a call with Concho Resources regarding board diversity. The company described its commitment to achieving board diversity and indicated it was conducting a director search, and asked that we continue to monitor their progress. In addition, the company acknowledged it could improve its disclosure of board diversity policies, and indicated it was open to doing so. We intend to follow-up with Concho in 2017. • Pax World sent follow-up letters to Planet Fitness and Metaldyne Performance Group requesting the companies adopt board diversity policies and improve the diversity disclosure in their proxy statements. Neither company has responded to previous letters sent on the same issue. CONTINUED 14 | PAX WORLD 2016 IMPACT REPORT • Pax World and Sonen Capital contacted S&P 100 companies asking them to commit to collecting and calculating gender pay ratio data, to make that information public, and to support the EEOC’s recently proposed EE0-1 pay equity reporting requirements. • As mentioned above, in March 2016, Pax World wrote to 32 technology companies held across our Funds, asking for information about how the companies are addressing pay equity and that they publicly disclose the results of a company pay analysis. We have received seven responses: ACI Worldwide, Google, Cisco Systems, Intuit, Western Union, Xerox and Open Text Corp. Sustainability Reporting & Disclosure: • In coordination with Impax and NEI Investments, we wrote to Thermo Fisher Scientific asking the company for greater information on its approach to managing product quality and health & safety as well as its efforts with respect to facilitating access to medicine in low and middle-income countries. • Pax World had a dialogue with Mastercard about investor expectations for sustainability reporting. We made several recommendations to the company and encouraged the publication of a sustainability report, noting that it would show real leadership relative to others in the space. • Pax World participated in stakeholder calls with EMC and Baxter International, coordinated by Ceres. With EMC, Pax World addressed the issues of carbon pricing (the company does use an internal carbon price of $30) and e-takeback and recycling. We also asked whether the companies were prepared to deal with the emerging issue of gender pay parity. • Pax World participated in stakeholder dialogues with Dell and Walt Disney Co. and provided feedback on each company’s sustainability initiatives. Both were a part of ongoing stakeholder engagements coordinated by Ceres. • Pax World signed a letter calling on oil & gas companies to disclose and manage the risks associated with fresh water withdrawals and waste water discharges, as we believe these have the potential to jeopardize their ability to operate. Fresh water scarcity and pollution already have profound near-term business impacts, disrupting operations and supply chains, delaying permits, increasing capital expenditures and operating costs, and constraining revenue growth. For example, nearly half of oil & gas wells in the U.S. are in water basins with high or extremely high water stress. • Pax World signed on to a letter coordinated by Ceres and ICCR aimed at four companies in the meat industry (Cargill, Perdue Farms, JBS and Smithfield Foods) to better address water quality concerns and to develop a comprehensive public water stewardship policy. Other issues: • Pax World signed a letter coordinated by Mercy Investment Services to Duke Energy about the company's potential coal ash liabilities. The letter is seeking an engagement with the company about its programs and policies to address risks to its coal ash storage facilities and to present options for addressing these risks. The letter also notes the company's 2014 Dan River impoundment failure, which led to over a hundred million dollars in shareholder liability, extreme brand damage and litigation. • Pax World signed on to a letter coordinated by FAIRR and Share Action regarding the development of sustainable protein supply chains given the environmental and social impacts associated with increasing demand for animal products. Eleven restaurant and food products companies received the letter. Specifically, Pax World signed on to a letter to McDonalds encouraging the implementation of timelines for phasing out routine antibiotic use. CONTINUED 15 | PAX WORLD 2016 IMPACT REPORT • Pax World sent a letter to Cabela’s seeking information about the company’s management and oversight with respect to the sale of firearms. Our inquiry was prompted by increased scrutiny in both the national media and by advocacy groups into the Federal background check system (National Instant Criminal Background Check System—NICS) and how that system is integrated into commerce. • Pax World signed a letter calling on health care companies to participate in the Access to Medicine (ATM) Index7 data collection process. The Index independently ranks pharmaceutical companies’ efforts to improve access to medicine in developing countries. Specifically, Pax World signed on to a letter to Roche Holdings encouraging the company to participate in the data collection process of the 2016 benchmark review of the ATM Index, as the company did in prior years. Proxy Voting: Pax World invests in companies in a variety of countries and markets, and as shareowners, we are entitled to vote on items on their annual proxy at each year’s annual shareholder meeting. Each year, Pax World votes on hundreds of ballot items put forth by company management and shareholders ranging from board of director elections, executive compensation and capital structure to environmental and social issues. We vote each proxy in a way that is consistent with our ESG criteria. Pax World exercises our proxy voting responsibility seriously, as it provides another avenue through which to promote improved financial performance and improved ESG policies and practices at companies. In 2016, Pax World revised our Proxy Voting Guidelines to address new and emerging issues. Our Proxy Voting Guidelines are available here and we publicly disclose our votes for both upcoming and past meetings. In 2016, we voted 829 meetings with over 11,000 proposals. You can also view our 2016 Form N-PX (Annual Report of Proxy Voting Record) for Pax World Funds Series Trust I and Pax World Funds Series Trust III. Public Policy Engagement: At Pax World, we recognize that effective public policy at the state, federal, and international levels can lead to well functioning markets and that investors can and should play a role in that process. Since some problems can’t be solved efficiently on a company-by-company basis, we work in collaboration with other investors and stakeholders to effect policy change. Specifically, we engage in public policy advocacy where we believe changes are necessary to: 1) preserve or advance shareowner rights; 2) improve ESG transparency and awareness; and, 3) encourage more efficient and sustainable performance of capital markets. These initiatives do not always have measurable outcomes, or are ongoing work that may have effects over several years. Where we have information, we have provided it below: Climate change public policy advocacy: Climate change is certainly top of mind for many investors and we believe the economic consequences posed by climate change, even in the short run, can affect all investors. Pax World actions on this issue in 2016 include: • Pax World became a member of the Green Infrastructure Investment Coalition. Objectives: better understand pipeline of green infrastructure investment; examine barriers to capital flows and propose solutions; and, shape capital market instruments needed to ensure capital flows. • Pax World signed a letter urging the SEC to more closely monitor companies’ climate benefit claims, and establish and enforce clear guidelines applicable to companies that may be claiming climate benefits. The letter specifically focuses on a case study about Enviva Partners LP, which illustrates how companies can mislead investors on the environmental and climate benefits of their products. • Pax World signed a letter coordinated by INCR addressed to members of the Congress that expresses our support for appropriations to establish a Green Climate Fund (GCF). According to the letter, the “Green Climate Fund offers a promising CONTINUED 7 The Access to Medicine Index (ATM) analyses 20 of the world’s largest research-based pharmaceutical companies on how they make medicines, vaccines and diagnostics more accessible in lowand middle-income countries. 16 | PAX WORLD 2016 IMPACT REPORT opportunity for American businesses and investors. Companies and investors are increasingly looking for opportunities to invest in and employ renewable energy and energy-efficient technologies in developing markets globally, and the GCF offers a viable opportunity to do so.” • Pax World signed a letter that commends the SEC for its 2010 climate disclosure guidance and its new concept release, which includes detailed questions on sustainability and climate risk disclosure, but expresses concern about the lack of recent action by the SEC on climate risk. It asks the SEC's Division of Corporation Finance to closely scrutinize filings by oil and gas, electric power and insurance companies, and issue comment letters when filings fail to discuss with meaningful specificity the material impacts of climate change and related matters on their businesses. • RGGI—the nation’s first multi-state, market-based system regulating carbon emissions in the electricity sector—currently operates in nine states across the northeast: CT, DE, ME, MD, MA, NH, NY, RI, and VT. Over the summer of 2016, the RGGI states will be conducting a formal review of the program and will be determining how ambitious the program will be for the years 2021-2030. Pax signed a letter coordinated by Ceres specifically asking the governors of these states to at least continue with the program’s current rate of annual emissions cap reduction. • Pax World signed an investor statement addressed to the Chair of the Arctic Council, Arctic Council members and staff, Arctic Economic Council and several oil & gas companies. The statement specifically calls for stronger environmental protection of the Arctic through a moratorium on oil exploration in the Arctic high seas. Gender diversity public policy advocacy: In addition to company-specific efforts outlined above, Pax World’s actions on this issue in 2016 include: • Pax Ellevate sent a letter to the SEC, urging the agency to require annual disclosure of gender pay ratios within the financial filings of public companies, or in the alternative, to issue guidance for voluntary disclosure of such information. Pax invited other investors to join us in this effort by sending their own letters to the SEC urging it to take action on this issue. • Following President Obama’s announcement of new EEO-1 pay equity reporting requirements, Pax World submitted a statement to the EEOC in support of the proposed rule. Human Rights public policy advocacy: Pax World believes it is the responsibility of businesses to protect and uphold basic human rights. Pax World’s actions on this issue in 2015 include: • Pax World signed an investor statement concerning North Carolina’s House Bill 2, which overturns municipal nondiscrimination protections for lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender (LGBT) people and prohibits transgender people from using restrooms consistent with their gender identity. Disclosure of lobbying policies & practices: Pax World also participates in public policy initiatives related to various anticorruption/ corporate governance concerns. Pax World’s actions on this issue in 2016 include: • Pax World signed a letter coordinated by the Corporate Reform Coalition to the U.S. House subcommittee on Financial Services and General Government. The letter asks committee members to ensure that this year’s final budget package does not include a rider that prohibits finalization of the SEC rulemaking on political disclosure. Sustainability Reporting & Disclosure: Pax World supports engagement efforts that aim to increase disclosure and transparency of a company’s sustainability practices. These efforts tend to be in collaboration with other investors or advocacy groups: CONTINUED 17 | PAX WORLD 2016 IMPACT REPORT • Pax World signed an investor statement coordinated by the PRI calling on credit rating agencies to incorporate ESG factors into their credit analysis in a more systematic and transparent way. • Pax World signed a comment letter coordinated by the Corporate Reform Coalition to the SEC regarding the agency’s regulation S-K disclosure requirements for U.S. public companies. The letter was in response to the agency’s outreach to investors regarding its disclosure requirements. • As part of the UNEP FI/PRI Fiduciary Duty project, Pax World signed an investor statement on investor obligations and duties regarding ESG integration. The statement asks investors to “Take account of environmental, social and governance issues, in their investment processes and decision-making, encourage high standards of environmental, social and governance performance in the companies or other entities in which they are invested, and support the stability and resilience of the financial system.” • Pax World signed a letter coordinated by Ceres regarding the business and financial disclosure required by regulation S-K. The letter recommends that the SEC approach sustainability disclosure as it would any other disclosure issue. For example: “Meaningful disclosure can be elicited with appropriate disclosure rules or guidance in place, staff who are trained to understand sustainability risks and directed to focus on them, comment letters to issuers with deficient or questionable disclosures, other enforcement mechanisms, and regular dialogues with investors and issuers about their relevant needs and concerns.” • Pax World signed a letter coordinated by the Corporate Reform Coalition to the SEC and FASB regarding a proposal to change the definition of materiality from what “could” influence an investor, to what “would” influence an investor. This change is meant to reduce the volume of required disclosure, which the Corporate Reform Coalition opposes. Other public policy advocacy: Pax World also supports various efforts that are not core ESG priorities for our public policy advocacy efforts, but have merit nonetheless: • Pax World signed a letter coordinated by As You Sow regarding pharmaceutical take back programs. The letter states that most U.S. communities lack free, convenient, on-going collection programs. The lack of free, convenient programs for proper disposal of prescription drugs and accessories such as needles and syringes, contributes to water pollution, illicit drug use, drug addiction, and threats to sanitation workers. • Pax World signed a letter coordinated by INCR addressed to members of Congress that expresses our concern about the lack of federal enforcement of the 2008 Lacey Act amendments related to the importation of illegally sourced timber and wood products. OUR ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT: Pax World believes that environmental stewardship is important for every business. Recognizing that our own operations affect the environment, Pax World strives to hold ourselves to the same standards that we expect of the companies in our portfolios. As part of this commitment, Pax World seeks to conduct business in a way that minimizes our environmental footprint while enhancing stakeholder value for our customers, employees, suppliers and communities. In support of this effort, Pax World has committed to measure, analyze and reduce our contributions to global climate change and consumption of resources, including energy, water and materials. Pax World has partnered with Native Energy to offset our carbon footprint, which includes business travel (42.2% of CO2e), employee commuting (41.7%) and building energy use (16.0%). The two main drivers of GHG emissions growth from our business operations include: natural gas consumption, which CONTINUED 18 | PAX WORLD 2016 IMPACT REPORT has steadily increased annually and business travel, which has also grown annually. While we remain committed to offsetting our GHG emissions in 2017, we acknowledge that we need to also explore options to reduce our GHG emissions trajectory. 120 $4.5 Tonnes CO2 e per billion USD AUM $4.0 100 $3.5 80 $3.0 Total AUM $2.5 60 $2.0 40 $1.5 $1.0 20 $0.5 0 $2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 In support of this effort, Pax World has committed to measure, analyze and reduce our contributions to global climate change. Pax World has also partnered with the Bonneville Environmental Foundation (BEF) to purchase Water Restoration Certificates (WRC), which offset our water consumption at our office in Portsmouth, NH. Every WRC purchased by Pax World represents 1,000 gallons of water restored to streams, through projects certified by the National Fish & Wildlife Foundation. Pax World purchased 76 WRCs to offset our water use for calendar year 2016. Environmental Impact of the Management Company 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Total GHG Emissions from Business Operations (M/T) 257.00 252.35 331.00 394.00 424.00 Total Electricity Consumption from Business Operations (‘000 kWh) 81.50 90.98 89.82 91.03 79.24 Total Natural Gas Consumption from Business Operations (Therms) 2879.00 3303.00 3492.00 3616.00 3751.00 Total Water Consumption from Business Operations (‘000 gallons) 157.80 171.59 145.11 83.13 75.49 CONTINUED 19 | PAX WORLD 2016 IMPACT REPORT Additionally, Pax World’s existing environmental policies and programs include measures to minimize the use of office supplies, including paper, glass, metal, plastic and batteries, and recycle what we do use. Employees operating at remote locations are also expected to recycle their office waste. Pax World prefers the use of digital marketing and advertising as a way to reduce paper consumption and other related environmental impacts. When choosing which marketing materials to print, we favor those that have longer shelf lives. Additionally, we seek to print only what we need using sustainably-sourced paper and less toxic alternatives to conventional petroleum-based ink products. Pax World has undertaken composting at its Portsmouth, NH office. Using the services of a local company, Mr. Fox Composting, we are composting items such as food scraps, sugar packets, coffee grounds & filters, paper towels, teabags & tea, flowers and floral trimmings and wax paper liners. Like most businesses, we rely heavily on information technology (IT) to conduct our business operations. Pax World does a number of things to reduce the impact of our IT systems while in service: • In order to reduce electricity consumption, we instituted a policy through an “Active Directory” that puts our computer monitors to sleep when not active. • There has been a significant reduction in individual equipment in our server room, as Pax World moved all but a few servers over to virtualized instances. The result is a network server footprint that supports the organization while only drawing between 5 and 10 AMPS of electricity. Further reading can be found here: Energy Star: Server Virtualization • We rely on Newport Computer Services, a local third-party e-waste recycling service provider, for the disposal of old electronic equipment. Newport’s goal is zero landfill waste through the harvest of computer components for recycling. DIVERSITY & INCLUSION: Pax World is an equal opportunity employer and follows a policy of administering all employment decisions and personnel actions without regard to age, sex, gender identity and expression, sexual orientation, race, color, marital status, pregnancy, physical or mental disability, genetics or genetic information, family health history, religion, national origin, or veteran status, or any other category protected under applicable federal, state or local law. Pax World encourages women and minorities to apply to job openings and endeavors to post positions in areas that may attract a diverse candidate pool. The company strives to take affirmative actions to enhance the job opportunities for minority group members and women. For example, we require search firms to include at least one woman in the finalist pool of potential candidates for open positions. • Overall, in 2016, 41% of our total workforce was composed of women. • Currently, our management committee is composed of a 50/50 gender split. • As part of our efforts to build an inclusive work environment, in August 2016, Pax World employees completed Respectful Workplace Training, which was focused on identifying and dealing with unconscious bias. Pax World conducts an annual gender pay equity survey. The results of that survey are in the table below. (Historical pay equity data is available in Appendix #4 of this report.) In any company as small as Pax World, a disparity may arise in pay equity CONTINUED 20 | PAX WORLD 2015 IMPACT REPORT due to the compensation of one or two individuals, and those differences may arise due to variations in qualifications and responsibilities. Further, in 2016, the size of our workforce declined by about 11% year-over-year and the percentage of women employed by Pax World also fell, both of which we believe impacted our year-over-year pay equity data. Pay Equity Report (Female/Male)* 2015 2016 Chief Executive Officer (1) 0% 0% Portfolio Managers (5) 96% 0% Senior Managers (7) 71% 84% Managers (6) 98% 96% Analysts (6) 104% 91% Professional Staff (24) 95% 96% *Parentheses denote the number of employees in the job category in 2016. To date, Pax World’s pay equity survey has included an analysis of base salary and does not include incentive compensation. In 2017, our CSR Committee intends to review our internal pay equity review process, as we are always striving to do better. PROMOTING FAMILY-FRIENDLY WORKPLACES: There is evidence that family-friendly workplaces can deliver good financial results, as well as simply being the right way to conduct business. Work from Harvard has established that human resource policies have significant impacts on financial performance, and studies also show that companies in the “Best Companies to Work For” list have superior financial performance.8 At Pax World, we believe that family-friendly workplaces offer measurable advantages when it comes to advancing businesses themselves and the business sector as a whole. In 2016, Pax World expanded its paid family leave policy from eight weeks of paid leave to 12 weeks of paid leave. The policy includes paid leave for new parents, which applies to maternity, paternity, adoption and foster care placement. The leave may be taken any time during the child’s first year of life (or adoption, or foster placement) and may be taken intermittently so that our employee, and their spouse, can organize their time off in a way that maximizes their time with their child. Over the past several years, 15 employees have used our parental leave policy a total of 22 times upon the birth or adoption of a child—11 men and 4 women. Further, in 2016, Pax World’s CSR Committee benchmarked our family-friendly policies to policies reported by local businesses and industry peers. This process was guided by the recommendations published by the NH Women’s Foundation, which publishes a guide to educate employers on how to implement a family-friendly workplace. The guide organizes family-focused issues into several buckets: parental support, economic, scheduling, work life and wellness (see Appendix #6). The CSR Committee chose nine companies, of which five are in the investment management industry, as our benchmark. The other four companies are major employers in New Hampshire. Based on our analysis, Pax World appears to be in line with peers in offering family-friendly benefits. Any disparity between Pax World and our peer group generally involved slight differences in the dollar value of the benefit. CONTINUED 8 Alex Edmans, London Business School, Lucius Li, London School of Economics and Chendi Zhang, Warwick Business School, Employee Satisfaction, Labor Market Flexibility, and Stock Returns Around The World, February 21, 2017. 21 | PAX WORLD 2016 IMPACT REPORT EMPLOYEES: #13 Best Company to Work For: Pax World Management LLC 30 Penhallow Street, Suite 400, Portsmouth, 03801• paxworld.com From left: Sarah Grenon, PR and content manager; Maureen Conley, senior VP of shareholder services and operations; Mahmood Kinani, systems administrator; Joe Keefe, president & CEO; Heather Smith, lead sustainability research analyst; Alicia DuBois, CFO; and Chris Brown, chief investment strategist. four weeks of vacation. Full-time employees who have worked at President/CEO: Joseph Keefe Pax World for two years are eligible for the company's adoption Years in Business in NH: 46 reimbursement program, which provides up to $5,000 per child to Full-Time Employees: 52 help cover adoption expenses. Pax World also hosts an annual Kids' Years on List: 1 Day where employees can bring their children or a special kid in Product/Service: Investment adviser focusing on their life to work to participate in special activities. sustainable investing Pax World pays up to $2,000 toward the purchase or lease of a hybrid or electric vehicle. It also oﬀers employees an ergonomics program that can include wireless headsets, stand-up work stations, Social responsibility is a focus of this company both in its physical therapy balls and ergonomic keyboards. Employees products and the beneﬁts it oﬀers employees. To maintain gender participate in proﬁt sharing and bonus programs. ■ equality, it maintains a 50-50 ratio of male and female senior managers and publishes an annual report detailing the company's pay equity, environmental impact, diversity and other corporate social responsibility issues. Pax World matches employee's charitable donations up to $250 per employee annually and provides four paid days to volunteer. Family is also important. All employees are guaranteed 12 weeks of paid time oﬀ for parental leave and for foster or adoption related reasons. The company also allows employees to take up to four weeks to care for an ill family member. This time may be taken at the employee's discretion. New employees start with © Business NH Magazine, September 2016. Reprinted with permission. All rights reserved. CONTINUED 22 | PAX WORLD 2016 IMPACT REPORT In 2016, Pax World was named one of the 2016 Best Companies to Work for in NH by Business NH Magazine and NH Businesses for Social Responsibility. Pax World strives to provide its employees a friendly, collegial, professional work environment. In addition to a competitive compensation package, health insurance and retirement benefits, Pax World offers employees the following programs: • Matching Donations Through the Pax World Management Charitable Fund, employees receive matching donations to non-profit organizations of up to $250 per year. • Volunteer Program Employees receive four days of paid time off per year to volunteer individually or in groups in the communities where they live and work. Pax employees participate in an annual United Way Day of Caring local community project. • Paid and Unpaid Family and Medical Leave* Pax World offers a generous family and medical leave policy, including up to 12 weeks paid leave for new parents. • Hybrid/Electric Vehicle Program* Employees who purchase or lease a hybrid gas-electric or all-electric vehicle receive a lump sum cash payment of $2,000 for a new vehicle and $1,000 for a used vehicle. • Adoption Reimbursement* – Employees may receive up to $5,000 per child for eligible adoption expenses. Occupational Safety: Pax World is committed to maintaining a healthy and safe work environment and to eliminating recognized safety and health hazards in the workplace. While employee safety and health hazards are limited and exposure to dangerous mechanical equipment and hazardous materials is minimal, Pax World has a Safety & Health Committee. The committee meets quarterly and coordinates such activities as employee safety training, emergency evacuation drills and on-site flu shots. Pax World is cognizant of the risks posed to its employees by working in an office environment. To mitigate these risks, Pax World provides periodic ergonomics training and endeavors to provide preventative workplace solutions for employees on an individual basis. COMMUNITY INVOLVEMENT: In keeping with Pax World’s social mission, all full-time Pax World employees receive four days paid time off per year to do volunteer work during regular business hours for an established non-profit, or community service organization of their choice. (This benefit is prorated for part-time employees.) In support of this program, Pax World regularly participates in the United Way’s group volunteer opportunities in the seacoast community of New Hampshire. In 2016, Pax World employees volunteered 173 hours during business hours and 205 hours during non-business hours to the following organizations: American Cancer Society Relay for Life NH Women’s Foundation ArtSpeak On Belay, Inc. Boston Contemplative Leaders in Action Portsmouth Halloween Parade Ceres Rye Little League CFP WIN Advisory Board Salvation Army Chatham Trails Association/AMC The Philanthropy Connection Clarke Schools for Hearing & Speech Wallace Global Fund Climate Collaborative (C3) United Way Day of Caring: St. Mary Academy Coastal Adaptation Work Group United Way Day of Caring: Great Bay Kids Company Cross Roads House United Way Greater Seacoast – Film Festival Endangered Species Coalition United Way Greater Seacoast Friends of Winchester Library YWCA Boston Mercy Investment Services CONTINUED *NOTE – Benefits with a * are available to regular employees working a minimum number of hours per week or who have obtained a minimum level of years of service. 23 | PAX WORLD 2016 IMPACT REPORT Pax World has partnered with the NH Charitable Foundation to establish the Pax World Management Charitable Fund and to administer our corporate donations and sponsorships to the following organizations: American Cancer Society NH Division, Inc. New Hampshire Women's Foundation Big Brothers Big Sisters of New Hampshire NH Community Loan Fund Clarke School for the Deaf NH Food Bank of NH Catholic Charities Clipper Foundation NH Public Radio Compass Working Capital Inc. On Belay Cross Roads House Save the Indoor Portsmouth Pool Dartmouth Natural Resources Trust Seacoast Family Food Pantry Education for All Children Seacoast Family Promise Families First of the Greater Seacoast Shared Interest Fedcap Rehabilitation Services, Inc. Society for the Protection of New Hampshire Forests Granite United Way Southern Region Southeast Land Trust of New Hampshire HAVEN The Home for Little Wanderers Media Power Youth The Nature Conservancy/New Hampshire Mercy Corps Thirty Percent Coalition National Mill Dog Rescue University of New Hampshire Foundation, Inc. New England Grassroots Environmental Fund Women Thrive Worldwide New Hampshire Public Broadcasting Womenaid of Greater Portsmouth Charitable Giving 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Cash Value of Corporate Donations/Sponsorships* $ 54,700 $ 52,455 $ 117,350 $ 144,691 $ 95,820 *Includes employee matching contributions In 2016, Pax World established the Pax Community Impact Committee, an employee committee composed of Pax World employees to help administer our corporate giving. The priorities of the committee include supporting organizations that prioritize (1) women’s empowerment; (2) environmental protection/conservation; and, (3) the needs of the greater New Hampshire seacoast area, such as help with substance abuse/addiction, or food and fuel assistance, among others. The committee also considers strategic long-term giving and meeting immediate needs of our community. The committee works with the NH Charitable Foundation in its administration of the Pax World Management Charitable Fund. Pax World donated $12,250 as part of the Employee Match Program in 2016. (Pax World donates $250 per employee regardless if an employee participates in the Employee Match Program. Donations not earmarked for specific organizations are donated based on the recommendation of the Pax Community Impact Committee.) In addition, we sponsored a family in need during the holidays through the Seacoast Community School. Employees donated gifts from the family wish list, as well as $820 cash, which the company matched on top of the regular matching donations. Pax World also hosts a year-round donation drive to Cross Roads House, a homeless shelter and support for individuals and families in Portsmouth, NH. Global Citizen Program: Pax World’s Global Citizen Program enables Pax World shareholders to earmark portions of their dividends and/or capital gains as a contribution to one of two non-profit organizations that are working to alleviate poverty, empower women and promote sustainable development around the globe, Mercy Corps and Women Thrive Worldwide. CONTINUED 24 | PAX WORLD 2016 IMPACT REPORT Global Citizen Program Shareholder Donations 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Mercy Corps $ 44,428.33 $ 190,040.93 $ 167,673.35 $ 91,890.88 $ 47,957.97 Women Thrive Worldwide $ 165.62 $ 1,888.37 $ 3,907.70 $ 6,741.61 $ 2,890.39 MEMBERSHIPS AND AFFILIATIONS: Pax World partners with numerous organizations to advance the field of sustainable investing. For example, Pax World currently is a member of or affiliated with, or sponsors the following organizations: – Ceres (Coalition for Environmentally Responsible Economies) – Interfaith Center on Corporate Responsibility (ICCR) – The Investor Network on Climate Risk (INCR) – The Forum for Sustainable and Responsible Investment (USSIF) – NH Businesses for Social Responsibility (NHBSR) – The Sustainable Investment Research Analysts Network (SIRAN) – United Nations Environment Programme Finance Initiatives (UNEPFI) – United Nations Principles for Responsible Investment There is a wide variety of initiatives in which Pax World is involved that are designed to address specific sustainability issues or advance sustainability in a particular sector. Pax World is proud to be a part of: – Climate Bonds Initiative Partnership Program – CDP (f/k/a The Carbon Disclosure Project) – CDP Water Disclosure Project – CDP Forests Program – CDP Carbon Action – Global Initiative for Sustainability Ratings: GISR – Thirty Percent Coalition – UN Global Compact – UN Principles for Investors on Inclusive Finance – Women Thrive Worldwide – Women’s Empowerment Principles CONTINUED 25 | PAX WORLD 2016 IMPACT REPORT Additionally, as a member of the financial services industry, Pax World is a member of the Investment Company Institute (ICI), which is the national association of U.S. investment companies, including mutual funds, closed-end funds, exchange-traded funds (ETFs) and unit investment trusts (UITs) and NISCA, a nonprofit trade association that provides the global investment management industry with discussion and education forums to better serve its customers by developing operational best practices. CORPORATE GOVERNANCE: Pax World is committed to the highest standards of ethics, business integrity and corporate governance. As the adviser to the Pax World family of mutual funds, we have a fiduciary responsibility to the funds’ shareholders. To that end, Pax World’s corporate governance practices are designed to establish and preserve accountability and transparency, while avoiding conflicts of interest (or even the appearance of conflict). Although our funds’ shareholders’ interests always come first, we also believe that we have a moral and ethical obligation to our employees, suppliers and the communities in which we operate. Pax World Management LLC is a privately-held company organized in the State of Delaware and overseen by a five-member board of directors, which includes our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Investment Strategist. The mutual funds we manage are held in two business trusts established in Massachusetts (Pax World Funds Series Trust I and Pax World Funds Series Trust III). The trusts are each overseen by an eight-member board of trustees. Six of the eight trustees on each board are independent, including the chairman of both boards, John Liechty, who is a non-executive, independent member of the board. Four of the trustees (or trustee-nominees) of the board of Pax World Funds Series Trust I are women and five of the trustees (or trustee-nominees) of the board of Pax World Funds Series Trust III are women, and the board’s nominating committee charter provides: “In considering and evaluating candidates, (a) the Committee shall strive to achieve and maintain diversity of membership on the Board, including (but not limited to) diversity of race, gender, culture, thought and geography, which the Board believes are key attributes of a well functioning board.” Pax World is equally committed to managing our own operations in a sustainable manner. Currently, Pax World’s sustainability efforts are overseen by our CSR Committee, which is chaired by our CEO. Members represent various departments throughout the company. The CSR Committee is responsible for Pax World’s CSR initiatives, reporting and conducting periodic employee training on the company’s environmental policies & procedures and developing ways to reduce Pax World’s environmental footprint. Commitment to our customers: Pax World is committed to providing excellent service to its shareholders, clients and customers. To accomplish that, Pax World strives to provide shareholders, clients and customers with tools to access information about their accounts, report complaints or problems, and protect their privacy, and to report on our performance with respect to those principles. Pax World has established the following policies: • Assure that all client interactions are monitored for satisfaction on a regular basis, and that problems receive appropriate attention. • Assure that reports on customer satisfaction are compiled at least quarterly and any significant or ongoing issues are brought to the attention of senior management. • Assure that all customer inquiries receive an appropriate response within a reasonable period. • Protect customer privacy as described in our Privacy Policy. We also will monitor any problems related to privacy and respond accordingly. CONTINUED 26 | PAX WORLD 2016 IMPACT REPORT APPENDIX 1: UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS INDEX Statement of Continued Support by Pax World’s Chief Executive Officer: See page: 5 Description of Actions: Human Rights (Principles 1-2) Assessment, Policy & Goals Pax World embraces the core values of responsibility, respect, honesty, compassion and fairness throughout our interactions with shareholders, employees, business partners and our community. We believe this includes the basic human rights of our employees and other stakeholders. Implementation As part of our General Workplace Policies, Pax World has developed policies and procedures to ensure our employees are provided with a safe work environment and are protected from workplace harassment and discrimination, including sexual harassment, physical violence and bullying. Pax World also has a supplier diversity program. We recognize that supplier diversity creates a competitive advantage for our company and positively impacts the community. To this end, Pax World strives to proactively identify, build relationships with, and purchase goods and services from certified small businesses as well as enterprises owned by minorities, women, veterans, and disabled persons. As part of our investment process, our social criteria examine companies from three different perspectives—workplace, product and community. Workplace criteria include such issues as diversity, equal opportunity, gender empowerment, workplace practices and workplace health and safety, employee relations, vendor standards and human rights. Product integrity criteria include product health and safety, animal welfare, consumer issues and emerging technology issues. Community criteria include companies' commitment to and relationships with the communities in which they do business, philanthropic activities, and in the case of financial institutions, responsible lending practices. Pax World’s Global Citizen Program enables our shareholders to earmark portions of their dividends and/or capital gains as a contribution to one of two nonprofit organizations that are working to alleviate poverty, empower women and promote sustainable development around the globe, Mercy Corps and Women Thrive Worldwide. Pax World seeks to invest with organizations that target underserved localities in the areas of affordable housing, small businesses, community development and revitalization, health care, education, women’s equality, and the environment, among others. Pax World believes these investments may have a positive direct impact on underserved localities, which is an important principle of our investment and business philosophy. Measurement of Outcomes Pax World’s efforts to promote human rights do not always have measurable outcomes, or are ongoing work that may have effects over several years. Where we have information, we have provided it on the following pages: 7, 17, 24. • In 2016, our shareholders contributed $47,957.97 to Mercy Corps and $2,890.39 to Women Thrive Worldwide through our Global Citizen Program. • As of December 31, 2016, Pax World had approximately $5.5 million (5.5% of total impact investments) in community investment notes and CDs. CONTINUED 27 | PAX WORLD 2016 IMPACT REPORT Description of Actions: Labor (Principles 3 6) Assessment, Policy & Goals Pax World strives to provide its employees a friendly, collegial, professional work environment. Pax World is an equal opportunity employer; we embrace diversity as a guiding principle as well as an investment concept. Implementation Pax World is an equal opportunity employer and follows a policy of administering all employment decisions and personnel actions without regard to age, sex, gender identity and expression, sexual orientation, race, color, marital status, pregnancy, physical or mental disability, genetics or genetic information, family health history, religion, national origin, or veteran status, or any other category protected under applicable federal, state or local Other relevant policies include our Human Resources Department’s Open Door Policy, Safety Policy and our Reasonable Accommodations Policy (Americans with Disabilities Act compliance). As we have done for several years, Pax World conducted a gender pay equity survey for 2016. In any company as small as Pax, a disparity may arise in pay equity due to the compensation of one or two individuals, and those differences may arise due to variations in qualifications and responsibilities. As part of our investment process, our social criteria examine companies from three different perspectives—workplace, product and community. Workplace criteria include such issues as diversity, equal opportunity, gender empowerment, workplace practices and workplace health and safety, employee relations, vendor standards and human rights. Product integrity criteria include product health and safety, animal welfare, consumer issues and emerging technology issues. Community criteria include companies' commitment to and relationships with the communities in which they do business, philanthropic activities, and in the case of financial institutions, responsible lending practices.. Measurement of Outcomes Pax World’s efforts to promote labor rights outside of our work environment do not always have measurable outcomes, or are ongoing work that may have effects over several years. Where we have information, we have provided it on the following pages: 8-10, 20-23. • Overall, our pay equity review determined that there is no significant disparity of the pay of men and women at Pax. In 2017, our CSR Committee intends to review our internal pay equity review process, as we are always striving to do better. • In August 2016, Pax World employees completed Respectful Workplace Training, which was focused on identifying and dealing with unconscious bias. Description of Actions: Environment (Principles 7 9) Assessment, Policy & Goals Pax World recognizes the importance of environmental stewardship throughout our business. Our products seek to invest in companies with sustainable business models, of which environmental commitment plays a large role. Recognizing that our own operations impact the communities and environments in which we operate, Pax World strives to hold ourselves to the same standards that we expect of the companies in our portfolios. As part of this commitment, Pax World seeks to conduct business in a way that minimizes our environmental footprint while enhancing stakeholder value for our customers, employees, suppliers and communities. CONTINUED 28 | PAX WORLD 2016 IMPACT REPORT Pax World is committed to carbon neutrality by offsetting the carbon emitted through office use as well as the emissions from employee business travel. The carbon offset program covers travel, building energy use, accommodations and employee commuting. Pax World purchases offsets to aid in the development of alternate energy and/or to retire the offsets resulting in a net reduction of carbon. It is the policy of Pax World to support and encourage recycling programs (office waste, electronic waste, food waste, etc.), water conservation and energy conservation. All employees are expected to actively participate in the organization’s conservation activities. As part of our investment process, our environmental criteria include such issues as air and water emissions, recycling and waste reduction, use of clean and renewable energy, climate change initiatives, and other policies and practices relating to environmental impact. Implementation In support of this policy, Pax World will endeavor to: • Measure, analyze and reduce our contributions to global climate change and consumption of resources, including energy, water, materials, etc. • Offset our energy and water use to aid in the development of alternative energy and the restoration of freshwater ecosystems • Procure goods and services from suppliers who demonstrate sound environmental practices • Support initiatives and public policies that seek to promote the long-term conservation of our natural resources • Engage employees on reducing their environmental impact at work, at home and while traveling through periodic training and educational opportunities • Communicate progress on environmental initiatives to stakeholders • Monitor emerging environmental issues as they pertain to our operations and adjust our environmental strategy as needed • Support initiatives and public policy that seek to promote the long-term conservation of our natural resources Pax World seeks to invest in companies with comprehensive environmental policies, practices, and performance, those with good environmental performance compared with their peers, and those that are working to manage and reduce their environmental impacts. We seek to avoid companies with inadequate environmental policies, management systems, performance and reporting. Measurement of Outcomes Information regarding our efforts to manage our environmental impact is found on pages:18-20. Information regarding our efforts to engage companies on environmental issues is found on pages: 11-12, 16-17. Description of Actions: Anti-corruption (Principles 10) Assessment, Policy & Goals Pax World is committed to the highest standards of ethics, business integrity and corporate governance. As the adviser to the Pax World family of mutual funds, we have a fiduciary responsibility to the funds’ shareholders. To that end, Pax World’s corporate governance practices are designed to establish and preserve accountability and transparency, while avoiding conflicts of interest (or even the appearance of conflict). CONTINUED 29 | PAX WORLD 2016 IMPACT REPORT Pax World has established policies regarding issues such as anti-money laundering (AML), insider trading, communications (social media and public correspondence), whistleblowing and the so-called “pay-to-play” rule, which refers to various arrangements by which investment advisers may seek to influence the award of advisory business by making or soliciting political contributions to the government officials charged with awarding such business, among others. As part of our investment process, our governance criteria include such issues as executive compensation, board structures, political contributions, bribery and corruption and, more generally, we evaluate board level decisions that may impact shareholder interests. Pax World seeks to invest in companies whose governance is best suited to the creation of long-term value. Pax World also participates in public policy initiatives related to various anticorruption/ corporate governance concerns. Implementation In support of this policy, Pax World will endeavor to: • Periodically review all relevant policies with Pax World employees, including but not limited to policies regarding AML, insidertrading, communications (social media and public correspondence), whistleblowing and the so-called “pay-to-play” rule. Measurement of Outcomes Pax World’s efforts in this area do not always have measurable or reportable outcomes or, in the case of our public policy advocacy, are part of ongoing work that may have effects over several years. Where we have information, we have provided it on the following pages: 26. APPENDIX 2: HISTORICAL CHART OF SHAREHOLDER PROPOSALS (2009-2017) Proxy Year Issue/Ask Company Name Lead File/Co-file Outcome Successfully 2017 Pay Equity Report Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. (GS) Lead File Withdrawn Successfully 2017 Pay Equity Report Bank of New York Mellon (BK) Lead File Withdrawn Successfully 2017 Pay Equity Report Qualcomm, Inc. (QCOM) Lead File Withdrawn Successfully 2017 Pay Equity Report Verizon Communications (VZ) Lead File Withdrawn Successfully 2017 Pay Equity Report AT&T, Inc (T) Lead File Withdrawn Successfully 2017 Renewable Energy Targets UPS, Inc. Co-File Withdrawn 2017 Climate Change Assessment Report Occidental Petroleum, Inc. Co-File Pending AGM 2017 Incentive Pay & Climate Change ConocoPhillips Co-File Pending AGM Climate Change: 2017 Dominion Resources Co-File Pending AGM 2 Degree Scenario Analysis 2017 Political Influence Alphabet, Inc. Co-File Pending AGM 2017 Pay Equity Report MasterCard, Inc. Co-File Pending AGM Cognizant Technology Solutions Successfully 2016 Board Diversity Policies Lead File Corp. (CTSH) Withdrawn CONTINUED 30 | PAX WORLD 2016 IMPACT REPORT Proxy Year Issue/Ask Company Name Lead File/Co-file Outcome Successfully 2016 Gender Pay Equity Apple, Inc. (APPL) Lead File Withdrawn 2016 Gender Pay Equity eBay, Inc. (EBAY) Co-file 51% Successfully 2016 Gender Pay Equity Amazon.com, Inc. (AMZN) Co-file Withdrawn 2016 GHG Reduction Target Nucor Corporation (NUE) Lead File 27% 2016 Political Influence ConocoPhillips (COP) Co-file 25% 2016 Political Influence Alphabet, Inc. (f/k/a Google, Inc.) Co-file 12% 2016 Renewable Energy Verizon Communications, Inc. (VZ) Co-file 8% Successfully 2016 Utility Business Model American Electric Power, Inc. (AEP) Co-file Withdrawn Successfully 2016 Utility Business Model Duke Energy Corp. (DUK) Co-file Withdrawn Sustainability Reporting/Methane 2015 Ultra Petroleum Corp. (UPL) Co-file 22% Emissions Successfully 2015 Board Diversity Policies eBay, Inc. (EBAY) Co-file Withdrawn 2015 Sustainability Reporting Amazon.com, Inc. (AMZN) Co-file 26% 2015 Political Influence Google, Inc. (GOOG) Co-file 10% 2014 Political Influence/Climate Change Devon Energy Corp. (DVN) Lead File 27% Successfully 2014 Board Diversity Policies Territorial Bancorp, Inc. (TBNK) Lead File Withdrawn Successfully 2014 Board Diversity Policies Oasis Petroleum, Inc. (OAS) Lead File Withdrawn Successfully 2013 Data Privacy & Security Amazon.com, Inc. (AMZN) Lead File Withdrawn 2013 Lead Battery Recycling Google, Inc. (GOOG) Lead File 7% Successfully 2013 Board Diversity Policies Stericycle, Inc. (SRCL) Lead File Withdrawn Successfully 2013 Board Diversity Policies Hospitalities Properties Trust (HPT) Lead File Withdrawn 2013 Political Influence Nucor Corp. (NUE) Co-file 27% 2013 Political Influence Pfizer, Inc. (PFE) Co-file Omitted by SEC 2012 Climate Change & Energy Use Amazon.com, Inc. (AMZN) Co-file 18% 2012 Political Influence Amgen, Inc. (AMGN) Lead File 19% CONTINUED 31 | PAX WORLD 2016 IMPACT REPORT Proxy Year Issue/Ask Company Name Lead File/Co-file Outcome Successfully 2012 Political Influence Target Corp. (TGT) Lead File Withdrawn 2012 Political Influence PepsiCo, Inc. (PEP) Co-file 7% Withdrawn for 2012 Board Diversity Policies Riverbed Technologies (RVBD) Lead File Technical Reasons Successfully 2012 Board Diversity Policies Roper Industries, Inc. (ROP) Lead File Withdrawn 2011 US Chamber of Commerce Membership 3M Co. (MMM) Co-file Floor Vote 2011 US Chamber of Commerce Membership ConocoPhillips (COP) Co-file Floor Vote 2011 US Chamber of Commerce Membership Pfizer, Inc. (PFE) Co-file Floor Vote Successfully 2011 Political Influence Pfizer, Inc. (PFE) Co-file Withdrawn Successfully 2011 Hydraulic Fracturing Risk Report Southwestern Energy (SWN) Co-file Withdrawn Successfully 2011 Sustainability Reporting St. Jude Medical, Inc. (STJ) Co-file Withdrawn 2010 Oil Sands Involvement ConocoPhillips (COP) Co-file 22% 2010 Political Influence CVS Caremark (CVS) Lead File 34% Advisory Vote on Executive 2010 EMC Corp. (EMC) Co-file 52% Compensation Advisory Vote on Executive Successfully 2010 PepsiCo, Inc. (PEP) Co-file Compensation Withdrawn Advisory Vote on Executive 2010 Target Corp. (TGT) Lead File 49% Compensation Advisory Vote on Executive Successfully 2010 Terex Corp. (TEX) Lead File Compensation Withdrawn Advisory Vote on Executive Successfully 2010 The Procter & Gamble Co. (PG) Co-file Compensation Withdrawn 2010 Independent Chairman of the Board Union Pacific Corp. (UP) Lead File 18% Company acquired 2010 Independent Chairman of the Board XTO Energy, Inc. (XTO) Lead File before AGM Advisory Vote on Executive Successfully 2009 Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) Co-file Compensation Withdrawn Advisory Vote on Executive 2009 The Procter & Gamble Co. (PG) Co-file 44% Compensation Successfully 2009 Sustainability Reporting Ameriprise Financial, Inc. (AMP) Lead File Withdrawn CONTINUED 32 | PAX WORLD 2016 IMPACT REPORT APPENDIX 3: KPI CHART Key Performance Metricsronme 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Environmental Impact of the Management Company Total GHG Emissions from Business Operations (M/T) 257.00 252.35 331.00 394.00 424.00 Total Electricity Consumption from Business Operations (‘000 kWh) 81.50 90.98 89.82 91.03 79.24 Total Natural Gas Consumption from Business Operations (Therms) 2879.00 3303.00 3492.00 3616.00 3751.00 Total Water Consumption from Business Operations (‘000 gallons) 157.80 171.59 145.11 83.13 75.49 Employees # of employees 46 47 54 55 49 Employee Volunteer Hours 116 204 160 174 173 Cash Value of Employer Matching Donations $ 2,418 $ 2,868 $ 2,750 $ 13,390 $ 13,070 Hybrid Vehicle Incentive Participation (# of employees) 0 2 6 2 2 Hybrid Vehicle Incentive Program Cash Value $ — $ 3,000 $ 11,000 $ 4,000 $ 4,000 Tuition Reimbursement Participation (# of employees) 2 2 0 0 3 Tuition Reimbursement Cash Value $ 10,000 $ 10,000 $ — $ — $ 15,000 Pay Equity/Gender Diversity Gender Diversity (% female) 48% 43% 44% 45% 41% Pay Equity Ratio (Female/Male)* Chief Executive Officer (1) 0% 0% Due to changes in diversity data Portfolio Managers (5) 96% 0% collection methodology, information Senior Managers (7) 71% 84% collected prior to 2015 are reported in Managers (6) 98% 96% Appendix #4 of this report. Analysts (6) 104% 91% Professional Staff (24) 95% 96% Shareholder Engagement # of shareholder proposals filed/co-filed (Proxy Year) 6 6 3 4 10 Management Company AUM (billions) $ 2.666 $ 3.199 $ 3.381 $ 3.630 $ 4.123 Cash Value of Corporate Donations/Sponsorships $ 54,700 $ 52,455 $ 117, 350 $ 144,691 $ 95,820 Cash Value of Impact Investments (millions) $ 4.70 $ 20.47 $ 40.29 $ 39.79 $ 101.90 Cash Value of Donations from Global Citizen Program $44,593.95 $191,929.30 $171,581.05 $98,632.49 $50,848.36 *Parentheses denote the number of employees in the job category in 2016. APPENDIX 4: HISTORICAL PAY EQUITY DATA In 2013 and in 2015, Pax World updated our data collection method for our pay equity report. The following table includes all data collected before 2015: Pay Equity Report (Female/Male)* 2013 2014 Senior Managers 83% (6) 71% (8) Portfolio Managers & Senior Analysts 131% (7) 121% (8) Managers 78% (7) 107% (5) Professional Staff 100% (25) 87% (31) *Parentheses denote the number of employees in the job category. CONTINUED 33 | PAX WORLD 2016 IMPACT REPORT APPENDIX 4: HISTORICAL PAY EQUITY DATA, continued Pay Equity Report (Female/Male)* 2010 2011 2012 Portfolio Managers 133% 132% 127% Senior Vice Presidents 73% 72% 75% Senior Managers 130% 127% 119% Senior Analysts 119% 113% 109% Analysts 136% 100% 96% Professional Staff 97% 96% 106% General Staff 138% 138% 141% *Initial data collected in 2010 APPENDIX 5: CONTINUED 34 | PAX WORLD 2016 IMPACT REPORT APPENDIX 6: CONTINUED 35 | PAX WORLD 2016 IMPACT REPORT APPENDIX 7: 2016 ISSUE BRIEF OUR MISSION IS TO PROMOTE OPPORTUNITY & EQUALITY FOR WOMEN & GIRLS IN FAMILY-FRIENDLY NEW HAMPSHIRE THROUGH RESEARCH, WORKPLACES EDUCATION, PHILANTHROPY & ADVOCACY. At the New Hampshire Women's Foundation we believe that creating family-friendly workplaces is essential to overcoming gender-based stigmas and outdated traditions, and is therefore essential to achieving economic equality—a key component of our mission and vision. There’s a simple reason for organizations We believe that in contemporary times, to adopt family-friendly workplace families must be viewed in more expansive policies: many of the most competitive, ways. With that openness of mind, “family” successful, and profitable businesses can mean a married couple with or without already have them. children, two people who have a long term commitment to one another, a single Businesses across the spectrum, from parent, a single individual and those caring small employers to multinational for aging parents. corporations, have demonstrated over the years that the benefits of implementing family-friendly workplace policies go Over the next few years we will direct directly to the bottom line. research, program, philanthropy, and advocacy resources to grow the number That’s because family-friendly policies are of family-friendly workplaces in New really about making it easier for Hampshire. We believe this issue is of employees to balance family and work, great importance across party lines, to and to meet both their family and work both men and women, and throughout our obligations. Employees are more likely to economy. remain with a family-friendly company. They’re more engaged and motivated. The Granite State is an important place to Turnover is reduced, and recruitment of further the discussion. Whether you are a new employees is easier. Family-friendly business owner, organization leader or policies meet the needs of today’s labor employee, we hope you are ready to join force, making them a win-win for everyone the conversation! involved. They're good for employees, children, parents and elders. And they’re good for business. A FAMILY-FRIENDLY WORKPLACE OR EMPLOYER IS ONE WHOSE POLICIES MAKE IT POSSIBLE FOR EMPLOYEES TO MORE EASILY BALANCE FAMILY AND WORK, AND TO FULFILL BOTH THEIR FAMILY AND WORK OBLIGATIONS. New Hampshire Women’s Foundation | 603.226.3355 | Two Delta Drive, Concord, NH 03301 | nhwomensfoundation.org The full issue brief can be found here: http://nhwomensfoundation.org/wp-content/uploads/2011/07/Changing-WorkplacesIssue-Brief.pdf 36 | PAX WORLD 2016 IMPACT REPORT TOP TEN HOLDINGS Pax Large Cap Fund top ten holdings as of 12/31/16: Apple, Inc. 4.4%, Microsoft Corp. 4.3%, Chubb Corp., The 3.5%, Berkshire Hathaway, Inc., Class B 3.2%, Time Warner, Inc. 2.8%, Schlumberger, Ltd. 2.6%, PepsiCo, Inc. 2.6%, Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., The 2.5%, Pioneer Natural Resources Co. 2.4%, Alphabet, Inc., Class A 2.4%. Pax Mid Cap Fund top ten holdings as of 12/31/16: Alleghany Corp. 4.6%, Investors Bancorp, Inc. 3.6%, Hologic, Inc. 3.1%, Citizens Financial Group, Inc. 3.0%, White Mountains Insurance Group, Ltd. 2.9%, Capitol Federal Financial, Inc. 2.8%, US Foods Holding Corp. 2.8%, Antero Resources Corp. 2.7%, Amdocs, Ltd. 2.6% and Yum! Brands, Inc. 2.5%. Pax Small Cap Fund top ten holdings as of 12/31/16: Investors Bancorp, Inc. 3.2%, Antero Resources Corp. 3.1%, Legg Mason, Inc. 3.0%, Capitol Federal Financial, Inc. 3.0%, US Foods Holding Corp. 2.9%, WCI Communities, Inc. 2.9%, Natus Medical, Inc. 2.8%, MRC Global, Inc. 2.6%, Aspen Insurance Holdings, Ltd. 2.6% and Renaissance Holdings, Ltd. 2.5%. Pax Beta® Quality Fund top ten holdings as of 12/31/16: Apple, Inc. 2.9%, Alphabet, Inc., Class A 2.9%, Verizon Communications, Inc. 2.9%, PepsiCo, Inc. 2.4%, Baxter International, Inc. 2.4%, Johnson & Johnson 2.3%, 3M Co. 2.2%, Amazon.com, Inc. 2.0%, AT&T, Inc. 1.9%, PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. 1.8%. Pax Beta® Dividend Fund top ten holdings as of 12/31/16: 3M Co. 2.7%, Johnson & Johnson 2.4%, AT&T, Inc. 2.3%, Cisco Systems, Inc. 2.1%, Merck & Co., Inc. 2.0%, Procter & Gamble Co. 2.0%, Amazon.com, Inc. 1.9%, PepsiCo, Inc. 1.9%, IBM 1.8%, Verizon Communications, Inc. 1.8%. Pax MSCI International ESG Index Fund top ten holdings as of 12/31/16: Roche Holding AG 3.2%; Novartis AG 3.2%; HSBC Holdings PLC 2.4%; Novo Nordisk A/S, Class B 1.9%; Commonwealth Bank of Australia 1.7%; GlaxoSmithKline PLC 1.6%; Vodafone Group PLC 1.4%; Westpac Banking Corp. 1.4%; Allianz SE 1.3% and SAP SE 1.3%. Pax Ellevate Global Women’s Index Fund top ten holdings as of 12/31/16: Microsoft Corp. 2.7%, NIKE, Inc., Class B 1.9%, Johnson & Johnson 1.9%, Facebook, Inc., Class A 1.8%, salesforce.com, Inc. 1.8%, American Water Works Co., Inc. 1.8%, Yahoo!, Inc. 1.7%, Abbott Laboratories 1.6%, Aetna, Inc. 1.6% and AT&T, Inc. 1.5%. Pax Global Environmental Markets Fund top ten holdings as of 12/31/16: Legrand SA 3.2%, SUEZ Environnement Co. SA 3.0%, Delphi Automotive PLC 3.0%, Danaher Corp. 2.9%, Sealed Air Corp. 2.9%, Waste Management, Inc. 2.9%, Ecolab, Inc. 2.9%, WestRock Co. 2.9%, Thermo Fisher Scientific, Inc. 2.7% and East Japan Railway Co. 2.7%. Pax High Yield Bond Fund top ten holdings as of 12/31/16: HCA, Inc., 5.875%, 2/15/26 1.5%, Kennedy-Wilson, Inc., 5.875%, 04/01/24 1.2%, Charlotte Russe, Inc., 6.750%, 05/21/19 1.2%, Syniverse Holdings, Inc., 9.125%, 01/15/19 1.1%, Ahern Rentals, Inc., 7.375%, 05/15/23 1.1%, Michael Baker Holdings LLC, 8.875%, 04/15/19 1.1%, Frontier Communications Corp., 10.500%, 9/15/22 1.1%, Sprint Communications, Inc., 8.375%, 8/15/17 1.1%, Altice Financing SA, 7.500%, 5/15/26 1.0% and Sirius XM Radio, Inc., 5.375%, 4/15/25 1.0%. Pax Core Bond Fund top ten holdings as of 12/31/16: United States Treasury Note, 2.375%, 08/15/24 6.6%, United States Treasury Note, 1.750%, 11/30/21 5.9%, United States Treasury Note, 3.125%, 08/15/44 2.5%, United States Treasury Note, 2.125%, 11/30/23 2.5%, United States Treasury Note, 4.500%, 02/15/36 1.9%, United States Treasury Note, 1.625%, 5/15/26 1.9%, United States Treasury Note, 2.125%, 09/30/21 1.7%, United States Treasury Note, 1.750%, 09/30/19 1.3%, United States Treasury Note, 1.000%, 10/15/19 1.0% and United States Treasury Note, 6.250%, 10/15/30 0.9%. Pax Balanced Fund top ten holdings as of 12/31/16: Apple, Inc. 1.9%, Microsoft Corp. 1.8%, Chubb, Corp 1.5%, Berkshire Hathaway, Inc., Class B 1.3%, Waste Management, Inc. 1.2%, PepsiCo, Inc. 1.2%, Time Warner, Inc. 1.2%, Schlumberger, Ltd. 1.2%, Merck & Co., Inc. 1.1% and Alphabet, Inc., Class A 1.1%. Holdings are subject to change. BENCHMARK INDEX DISCLOSURES Pax Large Cap Fund Benchmark Index The S&P 500 Index is an unmanaged index of large capitalization common stocks. Pax Mid Cap Fund Benchmark Index The Russell Midcap Index measures performance of the mid-capitalization sector of the US equity market. The index is a float-adjusted, capitalization-weighted index of the 800 smallest issuers in the Russell 1000 Index. The index is a subset of the Russell 1000 Index and serves as the underlying index for the Russell Midcap Growth and Value Index series. The Index is reconstituted annually. Pax Small Cap Fund Benchmark Index The Russell 2000 Index measures the performance of the small-cap segment of the U.S. equity universe. The Russell 2000 Index is a subset of the Russell 3000 Index representing approximately 10% of the total market capitalization of that index. It includes approximately 2000 of the smallest securities based on a combination of their market cap and current index membership. Pax ESG Beta Quality Fund Benchmark Index Effective June 30, 2016, the Russell 1000 Index replaced the Russell 1000 Growth Index as the primary benchmark for Pax ESG Beta Quality Fund because the Adviser believes the Russell 1000 Index is a more appropriate representation of the universe of securities in which the Fund may invest. The Russell 1000 Index measures the performance of the 1,000 largest U.S. companies, as measured by market capitalization. It is a subset of the Russell 3000 Index, which measures the largest 3,000 companies. The Russell 1000 Index is comprised of over 90% of the total market capitalization of all listed U.S stocks. Pax ESG Beta Dividend Fund Benchmark Index The Russell 1000 Index measures the performance of the 1,000 largest U.S. companies, as measured by market capitalization. It is a subset of the Russell 3000 Index, which measures the largest 3,000 companies. The Russell 1000 Index is comprised of over 90% of the total market capitalization of all listed U.S stocks. Pax MSCI International ESG Index Fund Benchmark Index The MSCI EAFE ESG Index is designed to measure the performance of equity securities of issuers of developed countries around the world excluding the U.S. and Canada that have high Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) ratings relative to their sector and industry peers, as rated by MSCI ESG Research annually. 37 | PAX WORLD 2016 IMPACT REPORT Pax Ellevate Global Women's Index Fund Benchmark Index The Pax Global Women's Leadership Index* is a customized market-weighted index consisting of equity securities of issuers organized or operating in countries around the world that demonstrate a commitment to advancing and empowering women through gender diversity on their boards, in management and through other policies and programs, and an understanding of the potential business advantages associated with greater gender diversity, as rated by Pax World Gender Analytics. In addition, the companies comprising the Index meet certain environmental, social and governance (ESG) or sustainability thresholds, as rated by MSCI ESG Research. No performance information is included here as the index is newly created. The MSCI World (Net) Index is a free float-adjusted market capitalization weighted index that is designed to measure the equity market performance of developed markets. The MSCI World Index consists of the following 23 developed market country indices: Australia, Austria, Belgium, Canada, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Hong Kong, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Japan, Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Portugal, Singapore, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, the United Kingdom, and the United States. Performance for the MSCI World Index is shown “net,” which includes dividend reinvestments after deduction of foreign withholding taxes. *A custom index based on MSCI World. Pax Global Environmental Markets Fund Benchmark Index Effective April 1, 2016, the MSCI ACWI (Net) Index replaced the MSCI World (Net) Index as the primary benchmark for Global Environmental Markets Fund because the Adviser believes the MSCI ACWI (Net) Index is a more appropriate representation of the universe of securities in which the Fund may invest. The MSCI ACWI (Net) Index is a free float-adjusted market capitalization weighted index that is designed to measure the equity market performance of developed and emerging markets. The MSCI ACWI consists of 46 country indexes comprising 23 developed and 23 emerging market country indexes. The developed market country indexes included are: Australia, Austria, Belgium, Canada, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Hong Kong, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Japan, Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Portugal, Singapore, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, United Kingdom and United States. The emerging market country indexes included are: Brazil, Chile, China, Colombia, Czech Republic, Egypt, Greece, Hungary, India, Indonesia, Korea, Malaysia, Mexico, Peru, Philippines, Poland, Qatar, Russia, South Africa, Taiwan, Thailand, Turkey and United Arab Emirates. Performance for the MSCI ACWI Index is shown “net,” which includes dividend reinvestments after deduction of foreign withholding tax. Pax Balanced Fund Benchmark Index The Blended Index is comprised of 60% S&P 500 Index and 40% Bloomberg Barclays U.S. Aggregate Bond Index. The S&P 500 Index is an unmanaged index of large capitalization common stocks. The Bloomberg Barclays U.S. Aggregate Bond Index represents securities that are U.S. domestic, taxable and dollar denominated. The index covers the U.S. investment grade fixed rate bond market, with index components for government and corporate securities and asset-backed securities. Pax Core Bond Fund Benchmark Index The Bloomberg Barclays US Aggregate Bond Index is a broad base index, maintained by Bloomberg L.P. often used to represent investment grade bonds being traded in United States. Pax High Yield Bond Fund Benchmark Index The BofA Merrill Lynch U.S. High Yield BB-B (Constrained 2%) Index tracks the performance of BBand B-rated fixed income securities publicly issued in the major domestic or eurobond markets, with total index allocation to an individual issuer limited to 2%. The benchmark of High Yield Bond Fund was changed to the BofA Merrill Lynch U.S. High Yield BB-B (Constrained 2%) Index effective June 30, 2010. Pax World believes the BofA Merrill Lynch U.S. High Yield BB-B (Constrained 2%) Index more closely corresponds to the investments of the Fund. One cannot invest directly in an index. RISKS: Equity investments are subject to market fluctuations, the fund’s share price can fall because of weakness in the broad market, a particular industry, or specific holdings. Emerging market and international investments involve risk of capital loss from unfavorable fluctuations in currency values, differences in generally accepted accounting principles, economic or political instability in other nations or increased volatility and lower trading volume. Investments in high yield bonds generally are subjected to greater price volatility based on fluctuations in issuer and credit quality. Yield and share price will vary with changes in interest rates and market conditions. Investors should note that if interest rates rise significantly from current levels, bond fund total returns will decline and may even turn negative in the short term. There is also a chance that some of the fund’s holdings may have their credit rating downgraded or may default. Funds that emphasize investments in mid-size and smaller companies generally will experience greater price volatility. Investing in non-diversified funds generally will be more volatile and loss of principal could be greater than investing in more diversified funds. The Funds’ allocations may change due to market fluctuations and other factors. The Pax Mid Cap Fund, Large Cap Fund, Core Bond Fund and the ESG Beta® Dividend Fund are new and have a limited operating history. You should consider a fund’s investment objectives, risks, and charges and expenses carefully before investing. For this and other important information, please obtain a fund prospectus by calling 800.767.1729 or visiting www.paxworld.com. Please read it carefully before investing. An investment in the Pax World Funds involves risk, including loss of principal. Pax World Management LLC 30 Penhallow Street, Suite 400 Separately managed accounts and related advisory services are provided by Pax World Portsmouth, NH 03801 Management LLC, a federally registered investment adviser. ALPS Distributors, Inc. is not the 800.372.7827 info@paxworld.com distributor for Pax World’s separately managed accounts. www.paxworld.com Copyright © 2017 Pax World Management LLC. All rights reserved. Distributor: ALPS Distributors Inc.: Member FINRA. ALPS Distributors Inc. is not affiliated with MSCI. 38 | PAX WORLD 2016 IMPACT REPORT PAX006946 4/18
