IKEA GROUP Ingka Holding B.V. and its controlled entities SUSTAINABILITY REPORT FY16 The financial year 2016 (referred to as FY16) of the IKEA Group (Ingka Holding B.V. and its controlled entities) refers to the period between 1 September 2015 and 31 August 2016 and the entities controlled by Ingka Holding B.V. during this time. The IKEA Group franchises the IKEA retail system and methods from Inter IKEA Group B.V. in the Netherlands. Inter IKEA Group B.V. is the owner of the IKEA Concept and is the worldwide IKEA franchisor. On 31 August 2016 we sold our product development, supply chain and production companies to Inter IKEA Group. 2 TABLE OF CONTENTS INTRODUCTION A MORE SUSTAINABLE AND HEALTHIER LIFE AT HOME 5 I KEA Group at a glance 6 Message from Peter 14 E  nabling a more sustainable and healthy life 7 Message from Steve at home 8 The year in brief 19 Inspiring more sustainable and healthy living 9 People & Planet Positive strategy 10 I KEA Group and the Sustainable Development Goals 4–11 12–21 RESOURCE AND ENERGY A BETTER LIFE FOR PEOPLE & INDEPENDENCE COMMUNITIES 24 Responsible sourcing 54 Better lives for our co-workers 34 More sustainable products 60 Better lives for workers in our supply chain 41 More sustainable operations 68 Respecting and supporting human rights 76 Lasting changes for communities 79 The IKEA Foundation 22–51 52–81 GOVERNANCE AND ETHICS ABOUT OUR REPORTING 83 About IKEA Group 89 About our reporting 84 Sustainability governance and management 90 UN Global Compact Index 85 Business ethics 91 O  ur contribution to the Sustainable 86 Public policy and advocacy Development Goals 94 Performance against targets 96 Assurance statement 82–87 88–97 3 INTRODUCTION IKEA was founded seven decades ago, in the Today, these values are more relevant than ever, farmlands of Småland, Sweden. The world has as society faces some of the greatest social and changed a lot since then, and so has IKEA. environmental challenges of our time. But even as a major global retailer, we always stay We want to use our influence, as a global company, true to our values of being thrifty with what we to contribute to tackling these challenges. That is have, working together and turning challenges why we have set an ambitious strategy to create a into possibilities. positive impact on people and the planet. Read on to find out how we are working to achieve it. INTRODUCTION IKEA Group at a glance | Message from Peter | Message from Steve | The year in brief | People & Planet Positive strategy | IKEA Group and the Sustainable Development Goals 4 IKEA GROUP IT STARTS WITH 100 MILLION IKEA FAMILY MEMBERS AT A GLANCE THE FOOD Celebrating everyday life in and Born in 1984, IKEA FAMILY has now reached around the kitchen, our theme 100 million members. Over 10 million new for FY16, It Starts with the Food members join every year that’s around provides inspiration and solutions 30,000 new members every day! for food activities, from growing and cooking to serving and storing. 783 MILLION STORE VISITS 163,600* 2.1 BILLION VISITS CO-WORKERS TO IKEA.COM 425 MILLION SHOPPING IN FY16 An increase of 9% compared CENTRE VISITS to FY15. Retail 124,400 Distribution 7,500 Shopping Centres 2,150 110 MILLION 9,500 PRODUCTS IKEA Industry 19,850 VISITS Range & Supply & Other ACROSS THE 9,700 to the catalogue and store apps. IKEA RANGE *With the change in ownership of product EUR 1.4 BILLION ONLINE SALES development. supply chain and production companies, some 26,000 co-workers became Every year we renew our part of the Inter IKEA Group during FY16. range, launching approximately Across 14 IKEA Group markets. 2,500 new products, designed by our in-house and contracted designers. IKEA GROUP EUR 34.2 48% FEMALE STORES BILLION TOTAL MANAGERS IN 28 SALES FY16 We want a workplace where 50% of leadership positions COUNTRIES Total sales translated into Euro are held by women and 50% increased by 7.1%. Adjusted by men. Today, more than In addition to our 340 for currency impact, total half of our co-workers are stores in 28 countries, sales increased by 7.9%. women, as are 48% of our at the end of FY16 managers and 33%* of we had 22 Pick-up FY06 FY15 FY16 Group Management. and Order Points in 11 countries, 41 17.4 31.9 34.2 EUR 1.7 BILLION *This number has changed for FY17 due to new IKEA FOOD management structure. Shopping Centres in 15 countries and 38 In FY16, our total revenue was Distribution sites EUR 35.1 billion. TURNOVER in 18 countries. Sales at our restaurants, bistros, Swedish Food Markets 21.6% In FY16, corporate income tax increased to EUR 1.2 billion globally, which equals an and co-worker restaurants. CORPORATE effec­tive corporate income tax rate of 21.6% EUR 4.2 BILLION INCOME (18.9% in FY15). In FY16, our total tax bill including other taxes and duties amounted to NET PROFIT TAX approximately EUR 1.9 billion. INTRODUCTION IKEA Group at a glance | Message from Peter | Message from Steve | The year in brief | People & Planet Positive strategy | IKEA Group and the Sustainable Development Goals 5 A MESSAGE FROM PETER In FY16 we had over 783 million energy. But a few years ago We have achieved a lot over the visits to our stores and around they used to cost around EUR 10 past year, but still we are just at 2.1 billion to IKEA.com. One of the each. We began work with our the beginning and we have so greatest impacts we can have is to manufacturing partners and are much more to do. The IKEA vision, inspire and enable our customers now selling LED bulbs for EUR to create a better everyday life to live a more sustainable life 1.50 – making them affordable for for the many people, gives us at home. those with thin wallets. Our efforts the opportunity – as well as the enabled us to convert our whole responsibility – to act and to meet For us, sustainability is not just lighting range to LED. the needs of future generations. about making our operations more sustainable; it’s a huge business Another example is renewable opportunity for those who can get energy, where we’re going all-in PETER AGNEFJÄLL it right. and have committed to own and President and CEO, IKEA Group operate 327 wind turbines and We’ve had a really good year with INGKA Holding B.V. and its installed 730,000 solar panels continuous growth in all our sales controlled entities on our buildings. We can do a lot channels, and a strong financial ourselves, but we can only tackle result. We have also made good the big challenges facing the progress in becoming more world today by working together sustainable. That’s not a coincidence with others. That’s why we joined because sustainability is an integral forces with other businesses and part of our growth agenda and investors to launch RE100, a group essential for business success. of companies who only want to use In the past, choosing sustainable renewable electricity. Now over 80 products was often a compromise. major companies have signed up, They could be quite ugly, seldom and more are set to join. worked well and often cost more. With widespread support for IKEA stands for just the opposite. the Paris agreement on climate We design every product to be change, we are finally seeing the beautiful, functional, high-quality, start of something big. This is the affordable, and sustainable. When decarbonisation of the economy, you combine all these things, it’s which will transform the way we live good for the customer, the planet and how business is done. These are and for IKEA. exciting times and there are many Take lighting as an example. LED opportunities ahead for forwardbulbs use up to 85% less energy thinking businesses to contribute to, than traditional incandescent and benefit from, the development models, saving both money and of the low-carbon economy. INTRODUCTION IKEA Group at a glance | Message from Peter | Message from Steve | The year in brief | People & Planet Positive strategy | IKEA Group and the Sustainable Development Goals 6 A MESSAGE FROM STEVE Twice last year the international I’m proud of the great progress customers to prolong the lives of their community got things absolutely right: we have made with our code of products. These are important steps the Paris Agreement on climate change conduct for suppliers – IWAY. It is and we are determined to do more. and the Sustainable Development an integral part of the relationship This has been a year of change in Goals (SDGs). These agreements with our business partners that IKEA Group, and it’s fantastic to see mark a significant step forward in the is contributing to better lives for my fellow co-workers staying focused journey towards a cleaner, fairer world, workers by supporting decent jobs. on keeping our sustainability promises and we’re fully committed to both. We support vulnerable groups in our while we transform the way we value chain by, for example, working The Paris meeting turned climate organise and run our business. in partnership with the International change from a point of disagreement Organization for Migration to protect Meanwhile, we’ll keep delighting our to agreement. It’s the fastest ever migrant workers from abuse. customers with small but important signing of an international settlement innovations, like our new well-designed and has created huge momentum. Similarly, we promote gender equality bicycle and low-carbon, delicious We threw everything we had behind in everything we do and support veggie balls part of our mission to Paris, going all-in to demonstrate our our LGBT+ co-workers’ right to be enable the many people to enjoy support for government efforts and themselves. We know that taking a more sustainable life at home. to show how small changes to the a positive, proactive approach to way we live can add up to make a equality is not just good for society, big difference to the planet. our co-workers and our customers, STEVE HOWARD but it benefits our business too. Chief Sustainability Officer, IKEA Group These global agreements are significant, but they are just the We're sourcing more of our materials INGKA Holding B.V. and its beginning. Governments and from more sustainable sources – controlled entities business must now be bold – moving 61% of our wood and 100% of our from commitments to action. And cotton. And we're working with others while some will try, no business or to make sustainable practices the government should seek to stand norm in the industry, not just our own against progress. They will find supply chain. themselves on the wrong side We also want a waste-free world, and of history. that’s why we support a shift to the We’re making good progress against circular economy that turns waste into the commitments in our People & a resource for new products. We’re Planet Positive strategy, but we have using more recycled content in our a lot more to do. We must build on our products, supplying over one million successes and continue to develop a spare parts for easy repair each year, culture that inspires us to hit and looking at how we can support our every target. INTRODUCTION IKEA Group at a glance | Message from Peter | Message from Steve | The year in brief | People & Planet Positive strategy | IKEA Group and the Sustainable Development Goals 7 THE YEAR 79 MILLION LED BULBS SOLD IN FY16 COTTON AND WOOD FROM MORE A WORKPLACE FOR EVERYONE IN BRIEF Switching our entire lighting range to energy efficient LED is one of the ways we are going SUSTAINABLE SOURCES All of the cotton we use for our products We want to create a fully inclusive work environment where all our co-workers are able to all-in to tackle climate change. If each of the comes from more sustainable sources.2 be themselves. In 2015, IKEA Group became a bulbs sold replaced an incandescent bulb, In FY16, 61% of wood came from more member of the Workplace Pride Foundation, which PHOTO: LUMENTO they could save enough energy to power sustainable sources,3 and we aim for 100% strives for greater acceptance of LGBT+ people in RAISING OUR VOICE almost 650,000 households for a year!1 by 2020. the workplace and in society. ON CLIMATE CHANGE World leaders met in Paris in December 2015 and achieved a historic agreement to tackle climate change. We were there calling for climate action and lighting up the city with 800,000 Christmas lights, powered by clean energy. SEE SEE SEE PAGE 16 PAGE 24 PAGE 53 SEE PAGE 13 GOODBYE EPS! EUR 23.5 MILLION EUR 2.1 BILLION FOR And hello fibreRAISED DURING GOOD RENEWABLE ENERGY based, fully recyclable CAUSE CAMPAIGNS We have invested EUR 1.5 billion SUPPORTING REFUGEES materials! We have IN FY16 in renewable energy since 2009, replaced the oiland have committed a further based expanded Around the world, EUR 600 million. By August polystyrene (EPS) As a result of the Soft Toys for Education millions of people 2016, we had committed to own in IKEA flat packs and Brighter Lives for Refugees have had to leave and operate 327 wind turbines with a sustainable campaigns, IKEA Foundation donated their everyday and installed 730,000 solar alternative. This will EUR 23.5 million. These funds lives behind. panels on our buildings. In FY16 save 8,000 tonnes will improve opportunities for In many IKEA we produced renewable energy of EPS foam a year children in some of the world’s retail countries, equivalent to 71% of the – enough to fill more poorest communities. co-workers have energy consumption of than half of the dedicated time our operations.4 Empire State Building! and resources to creating better conditions for newly arrived refugees. SEE SEE SEE SEE PAGE 78 PAGE 35 PAGE 81 PAGE 43 1 C  alculation based on the electricity consumption of an average European 2 I ncludes cotton grown to the Better Cotton Standard; by farmers working towards 3 Currently defined as FSC™-certified or recycled wood. household. Better Cotton; recycled cotton and more sustainable cotton from the USA (such as 4 Excluding IKEA Centres, the IKEA Group shopping centre business. the ‘e3 Cotton Program’). INTRODUCTION IKEA Group at a glance | Message from Peter | Message from Steve | The year in brief | People & Planet Positive strategy | IKEA Group and the Sustainable Development Goals 8 PEOPLE & PLANET POSITIVE STRATEGY We are taking bold steps to transform our The People & Planet Positive strategy n S  trive for resource and energy business and respond to a rapidly changing independence. Secure long-term access Our sustainability strategy, People & Planet world. This is our opportunity to play a small, to sustainable raw materials, promote Positive, sets out how we are working to but significant, role in helping to create a more recycling, and use resources within the make a positive difference for people and the sustainable planet. limits of the planet. Produce more renewable environment today and tomorrow. The strategy energy than we consume and drive energy FY16 has been an important year. In December focuses on three areas where we can have the efficiency throughout our value chain. 2015, the world’s leaders committed to keep most positive impact. Learn more about how global warming well below the 2oC threshold, we focus our efforts on page 89. n T  ake a lead in creating a better life for and the launch of the UN Sustainable the people and communities impacted n  nspire and enable millions of I Development Goals (SDGs) established a by our business. Extend our code of customers to live a more sustainable strategic direction for governments and conduct throughout our value chain; be a and healthier life at home. Take the lead business to create a sustainable future. good neighbour, act in the best interests of in developing and promoting products and children and support human rights. We know that to be a viable business in solutions that help customers save and the long term, we need to be a sustainable generate energy, reduce and sort waste and business. And we want to go beyond this, by use water more efficiently – all at the lowest going all-in to create a positive impact for possible price. people and the planet. WHAT IS IN THE REPORT? This Report is an account of our progress in FY16 Growing IKEA Together IKEA in the hearts and minds of the many people against the targets set out in the People & Planet OBJECTIVES 2020+ Positive strategy. Find the People & Planet Positive Our vision, to create a better everyday Growth and long term proﬁtability strategy on our website. Read on to learn about how life for the many people, is at the heart far we have progressed and our ambitions to do even GROWING IKEA TOGETHER 2020+ of our sustainability strategy, People & more. A better IKEA Planet Positive. Sustainability is one of The report covers all wholly owned companies in the the strategic cornerstones in the IKEA IKEA Group in FY16. At the beginning of FY17, the Group direction – Growing IKEA Together PEOPLE composition of IKEA Group changed when IKEA range, 2020+. The direction outlines our aim to 1 2 ...through developing co-workers, strengthening our supply and production activities were transferred from culture and making IKEA a great place to work create a better IKEA, to position IKEA in the IKEA Group to the Inter IKEA Group. See page 83 CORNERSTONES the hearts and minds of the many people, and to achieve long-term growth and GROWING SUSTAINABILITY for more information and read about the scope of this report on page 89. profitability. It sets a high level direction IKEA 3 ...through becoming ”people and planet positive” and always acting in a responsible way for IKEA Group, complemented by our ...through providing a great customer experience, bringing our strong and inspiring home furnishing People & Planet Positive strategy. Find offer and expertise closer to the many people out more about our governance on page PERFORMANCE 84, and how sustainability is integrated 4 ...through unleashing our full potential, constantly FIND OUT MORE ﬁnding better ways and building long term value across our business on page 19. About the IKEA Group, our vision and our business idea on the IKEA website. GOALS INTRODUCTION IKEA Group at a glance | Message from Peter | Message from Steve | The year in brief | People & Planet Positive strategy | IKEA Group and the Sustainable Development Goals 9 IKEA GROUP AND THE SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS “The UN Sustainable GENDER EQUALITY – AFFORDABLE AND  ECENT WORK AND D Achieve gender equality and CLEAN ENERGY – Ensure ECONOMIC GROWTH – Development Goals empower all women and girls access to affordable, reliable, Promote sustained, inclusive are the master plan sustainable and modern energy and sustainable economic for a cleaner, fairer for all growth, full and productive employment and decent world. We want to work for all lead with passion and purpose to help We employed over 163,600 make that world co-workers around the world in possible.” FY16, and we create employment for STEVE HOWARD millions of people indirectly through Chief Sustainability Officer our extended value chain. We want to IKEA Group ensure that what we do has a positive impact on their lives. Everyone should have access to decent work, under safe conditions. We set minimum requirements on To secure a reliable source of energy environment, social and working “To close the gender gap, we must for the future, we must transition to conditions throughout our supply all join together – governments, renewables. Since 2009, we have businesses and individuals. There chain through our code of conduct committed to invest EUR 2.1 billion in is a lot we can do in IKEA to boost and programme for suppliers, IWAY. renewable energy. We have already women’s empowerment. And It ensures a mutual understanding committed to own and operate 327 every step we take contributes with our suppliers – some of whom we The UN aims to drive global IKEA Group welcomes the wind turbines and installed 730,000 to a better society. In September have worked with for several decades. action through the Sustainable Sustainable Development Goals as solar panels on our buildings (see 2015, IKEA Switzerland became Development Goals (SDGs) that set a catalyst towards achieving a more page 43). We pay particular attention to the first company in the world to a framework for a better future. sustainable and equal world. We will vulnerable groups in our supply chain, reach the highest level of EDGE We work to improve energy efficiency use the goals to guide and inspire such as migrant workers and homeThis set of 17 goals, launched in – the leading global standard for across our value chain – in our us in developing our sustainability gender equality. This reinforces based workers, to ensure that they September 2015, responds to the own operations (see page 41) and agenda. our commitment to ensuring a can access decent employment. Find biggest challenges facing our world. by working with our suppliers (see company structure and culture out more on page 68. It guides governments, businesses We have mapped our People & page 38). We offer products that that prevents pay gaps and enable our customers to save energy and civil society in ending poverty, Planet Positive strategy against underrepresentation of women in at home – like energy-saving LED fighting inequality and injustice, the goals, and identified seven in management positions, and that and tackling climate change particular where we can make the bulbs. And our new home solar offer offers different career paths for by 2030. The goals can inspire greatest contribution. Find out more enables customers to turn their roofs women.” business to turn today’s challenges about these on the right. And see into power stations, contributing to SIMONA SCARPALEGGIA our ambition to make clean energy into tomorrow’s opportunities: how we are supporting all 17 goals IKEA Retail Switzerland entering new markets, developing in the SDG index on page 91. Country Retail Manager and available and affordable for as many new products and services, and co-chair of the UN High Level Panel on people as possible (see page 16). ultimately transforming their Women’s Economic empowerment business and the world. INTRODUCTION IKEA Group at a glance | Message from Peter | Message from Steve | The year in brief | People & Planet Positive strategy | IKEA Group and the Sustainable Development Goals 10 REDUCED INEQUALITIES – RESPONSIBLE CONSUMPTION CLIMATE ACTION – LIFE ON LAND – Protect, restore and Reduce inequality within and AND PRODUCTION – Take urgent action to combat climate promote sustainable use of terrestrial among countries Ensure sustainable consumption change and its impacts ecosystems, sustainably manage and production patterns forests, combat desertification, and halt and reverse land degradation and halt biodiversity loss “Humanity is using the planet’s resources at an The production of raw materials we source unsustainable rate. It’s time to start looking at waste can have a big impact on local ecosystems, differently – as a resource. At biodiversity and communities. The materials we IKEA, our focus is on ensuring use most are wood and cotton, and we have a customers can make the most big responsibility to source them in a way that of their products. We will support them protects, restores and promotes sustainable use to care for and repair, rent and share, of terrestrial ecosystems and biodiversity. We and eventually return them to IKEA. have a great opportunity to use our scale and Then we can close the loop, giving our influence to transform the wider industry for products – and the materials they are these materials to more sustainable sources. made from – a second life.” “Urgent action is needed to tackle climate change – communities across All the cotton we use for our products is PIA HEIDENMARK COOK the world and the success of business from more sustainable sources, using more Head of Sustainability for Retail & Expansion IKEA Group depend on it. That’s why IKEA Group sustainable farming practices that improve is going all-in to be part of the solution. farmers’ livelihoods and working conditions, We aim to make high-quality, sustainable home We see action on climate change as and protect the environment. Now we are furnishings that are accessible for the many a driver of innovation, investment going beyond our supply chain to make more people, not just the fortunate few. And we and renewal.” sustainable sources the norm across the whole want to minimise the environmental impact PETER AGNEFJÄLL industry. Find out more on page 24. of each product at every stage of its life – President and CEO, IKEA Group In FY16, we sourced 61% of wood from more from sourcing, to production, transport, use, sustainable sources. To reach 100% by 2020, and eventually end of life. Find out more on we need to work with others to increase the We need bold action from governments and page 22. global supply of sustainable sources of wood. businesses to secure the future of our planet. We want our products to last as long as our We use our scale and influence to advocate for Our goal is to become forest positive and customers need them – and even longer! There strong policies on climate change. Our Chief promote the adoption of sustainable forestry We want to contribute to a more equal and comes a time when they’re no longer needed, Executive Officer and Chief Sustainability Officer methods. See page 24. inclusive society. Within our own operations, we and we are exploring how to close the loop were both at the COP21 climate conference in want to create a work environment that enables to turn old products into a new resource. We Paris in December 2015 (see page 13). And we all our co-workers to be themselves, regardless already do this in our operations, and many of partner with others through coalitions such as of their gender identity or sexual orientation. our home furnishing products are made from We Mean Business and RE100, to promote a We take a stand for decent jobs, fair wages and renewable, recyclable and recycled materials. low-carbon economy. equality for the people in our supply chain. By See page 34. With 783 million visitors to our stores each year, helping to improve their lives, we can support It is not just about what we do, but what we we have a great opportunity to inspire people positive economic, social and environmental can inspire our customers to do. Many of our to act on climate change in their everyday lives, development that contributes to reduced products enable customers to live a more by taking small steps to cut energy and water inequalities within and among countries. Read sustainable life at home, saving water and use, or reduce waste. Find out more about how more on page 68. energy, and minimising waste. Find out more we are inspiring action on climate change on on page 12. page 13. INTRODUCTION IKEA Group at a glance | Message from Peter | Message from Steve | The year in brief | People & Planet Positive strategy | IKEA Group and the Sustainable Development Goals 11 A MORE SUSTAINABLE AND HEALTHIER LIFE AT HOME We are committed to inspiring and enabling enable customers to save energy and water, reduce all our customers to live a more sustainable waste, live more healthily, and save money. We and healthier life at home. call this our ‘More sustainable life at home’ range, and we are constantly developing and improving it A sustainable and healthy lifestyle should be to meet our goal of a fourfold increase in sales of accessible to the many people, without having to these products by August 2020, compared compromise on style, function, quality, or price. with FY13. We design products that meet these criteria, and A MORE SUSTAINABLE AND HEALTHIER LIFE AT HOME Enabling a more sustainable and healthy life at home | Inspiring more sustainable and healthy living 12 INSPIRING ACTION visitors to IKEA.com, we have an opportunity PHOTOS: LUMENTO WATCH THE VIDEO to inspire and enable millions of customers ON CLIMATE CHANGE to live more sustainably. Many of our products and solutions enable our customers to save and generate energy, conserve water, IN DECEMBER 2015, GOVERNMENTS AGREED TO FIGHT reduce waste and live healthier lives. And we CLIMATE CHANGE TOGETHER, SIGNING THE HISTORIC are determined to develop more products like these. PARIS AGREEMENT. In 2015, we switched our entire lighting IKEA Group is committed to going all-in on range to energy-efficient LED. LED bulbs use climate change, in our own business and up to 85% less energy than incandescent beyond. We made our views heard in the bulbs, and last for up to 20 years. They’re lead up to the United Nations climate change the future of lighting and we aim to sell conference in Paris, and have been working 500 million by 2020. If these replaced with others to increase our impact and drive incandescent bulbs, it would save enough positive change. energy each year to meet the annual electricity needs of every household in Paris In the run-up to the conference, we helped and London. establish We Mean Business, a coalition of organisations calling for action on climate Many of our customers can now generate change, and RE100, a group of businesses their own renewable energy too. Our new committed to using renewable energy. We “There was incredible enthusiasm in IKEA solar panel offer, launched in FY16 in the encouraged our co-workers and customers France and great support throughout IKEA. Netherlands, Switzerland and the UK, guides to sign a petition at www.momentforaction. Seeing so many people take part showed customers all the way from planning and org, which was delivered to world leaders at how sustainability can also drive fun and purchase to fitting and maintenance – at the COP21. engagement.” lowest possible price. During FY17, we will IKEA is the world’s biggest home furnishing expand this offer to a further nine countries. Peter Agnefjäll, our President and CEO, and Steve Howard, our Chief Sustainability retailer and we have a responsibility – and a This is just the start of our contribution to Officer, attended the Paris conference along huge opportunity – to contribute to tackling the pledges made in Paris, and we have with many co-workers who transformed the climate change. much more to do. iconic Champs-Élysées into a showcase for We work to reduce our energy use and have Read more about how we are transforming renewable energy and LED lighting. committed to generate as much energy our business (see page 22), working with A wind turbine, 440 solar panels and 25 from renewables as all of the energy we others to call for positive change (see human-powered generators kept 800,000 use in our own operations, by 2020. Since page 84), and inspiring our customers to LED lights ablaze along the entire avenue. 2009, we have invested EUR 1.5 billion in take action (see page 19). wind turbines and solar panels, and in June Thousands of families and friends joined in 2015, IKEA Group and the IKEA Foundation the fun: swinging, running and cycling to committed a total of EUR 1 billion to climate keep the lights sparkling. We encouraged action. This consisted of a EUR 600 million our customers to visit the IKEA France commitment by IKEA Group for investments website to learn more about how they could in renewable energy and a EUR 400 million fight climate change by making small but commitment by the IKEA Foundation to significant changes in their lives. support communities most impacted by “It was an amazing journey,” says Myriam climate change. WATCH Galopin Degrave, Sustainability Project But we know that this is not enough. With THE VIDEO Leader at IKEA France. 783 million visits to our stores and 2.1 billion A MORE SUSTAINABLE AND HEALTHIER LIFE AT HOME Enabling a more sustainable and healthy life at home | Inspiring more sustainable and healthy living 13 ENABLING A MORE SUSTAINABLE AND PEOPLE & PLANET STATUS PERFORMANCE IN FY16 POSITIVE TARGETS HEALTHIER LIFE Take the lead in developing and promoting products and solutions that inspire and enable people Sales of products for a more sustainable life at home increased to EUR 1,802 million (EUR 641 million in FY13). AT HOME to live a more sustainable life at home, and achieve more than a fourfold increase in sales by August 2020, compared to FY13. By September 2017, offer the We continue to launch new energy-efficient most energy-efficient home appliances, including cookers, dishwashers, WE CAN HAVE A BIG IMPACT ON THE PLANET BY INSPIRING AND ENABLING OUR appliances at the lowest price. fridges, oven hoods and washing machines. MILLIONS OF CUSTOMERS TO LIVE MORE SUSTAINABLE AND HEALTHIER LIVES. In FY17, we will launch new dishwashers with A+++ ratings in Europe and in North America we will only offer cooling products with an Energy Star rating. The possibilities are huge. If each of the 79 million creative ways to save water or energy, reduce waste LED bulbs we sold in FY16 replaced an incandescent and live healthier lives. By September 2016, all our We continue to expand our range of energybulb, they could save enough energy to power almost electric hobs will be energyefficient induction hobs that enable customers These products that enable more sustainable and efficient induction hobs. to save energy. 63% of our electric hobs were 650,000 households for a year!1 healthier living form our ‘More sustainable life at energy-efficient induction hobs in FY16, down We firmly believe that more sustainable living should home’ range. There are now 1,138 products in from 66% in FY15. not have to be a compromise. We design every this range – from LED light bulbs to water efficient product based on the principles of our Democratic taps, indoor gardening equipment, and even a bike Offer leading water and energy Our dishwashers are a great alternative to Design approach – combining form, function, quality (see page 15). We track sales of these products to saving solutions in our range of hand washing, using less energy and water. In taps, showers, sink accessories FY17, we plan to launch new models with A+++ and sustainability at an affordable price. This means measure our impact, and we aim to achieve a and dishwashers by September ratings in Europe to offer even more energythat customers can enjoy the same high quality and fourfold increase in these sales by 2020, compared 2016 – all at the lowest possible efficient dishwashers to customers. Our new low cost for any product and benefit from simple and with FY13. In FY16, sales of these products totalled price. range of showers and taps with energy and EUR 1,802 million, bringing us 70% of the way water saving features will be launched outside the target date. towards our target. SALES VALUE OF PRODUCTS CLASSIFIED AS ’MORE SUSTAINABLE LIFE AT HOME’ Sales are one way of measuring. We use surveys Take action in more healthy and We continue to use our Balanced Meal standard (MILLION EUR) and studies with co-workers and customers to gain sustainable food by enabling and to assess the nutritional value of our meals a unique insight into how our products and solutions encouraging a more balanced diet. and products. And we work to provide more information for our customers to learn more can be used to live more sustainably, and to improve about our food range, such as allergen and people’s lives. We want to share these ideas and nutritional information. know-how to inspire even more people – whether through fun and original interior design ideas in our catalogue, or enthusiastic sustainability co-worker LEGEND: Achieved Ongoing Not achieved ambassadors helping customers in our stores. Read about how we engage our co-workers and customers in more sustainable living on page 19. And for our 641 1,015 1,311 1,802 2,564 latest insights, see our Life at home report. FY13 FY14 FY15 FY16 AUG 2020 GOAL 1 C  alculation based on the electricity consumption of an average European household. (MILLION EUR) A MORE SUSTAINABLE AND HEALTHIER LIFE AT HOME Enabling a more sustainable and healthy life at home | Inspiring more sustainable and healthy living 14 KRYDDA/VÄXER Our new KRYDDA/VÄXER series uses hydroponics and a built-in LED. So even the most urbanloving city-dwellers can enjoy growing and eating their own fresh food throughout the year, without the need for sunlight or soil. BEING HEALTHIER Eating well and exercising are our meals and products. In BEKANT desk key to healthy living, but busy FY16, we continued to work With an adjustable height, this lifestyles, urban living and a on providing more information desk allows you to change between culture of convenience can get online and in our restaurants sitting and standing – helping you feel and work better. It has a deep in the way. We are developing for customers to find out more table top to give you a generous products that make it easier about our food range, such work space that lets you sit at a to live a healthy life and spend as nutrition, allergens and healthy distance from the computer more time on the important ingredients. screen. things. We aim to source all of our food ingredients responsibly, in a Food in our stores way that is good for people and the planet. To find out more, Food is a fundamental part of SLADDA bicycle see page 31. our daily life. We want to offer In FY16, we launched the SLADDA healthy and more sustainable bike. We know that looking after food in our IKEA restaurants, At home bikes can be complicated, costly IKEA bistros, Swedish Food and time-consuming. That’s why More people live in urban we designed the SLADDA with a Markets and co-worker environments than ever before rubber belt drive – a rustproof, restaurants, to enable our – by 2050, over two thirds of durable and maintenance-free customers and co-workers to alternative to a regular chain. the world’s population will live eat well at our stores, and at It is light, low-maintenance in cities.2 This means a different home. and comes with customisable way of life, including smaller accessories including a basket and Our food range follows our living spaces and restricted a trailer, making car-free journeys principles of Democratic access to nature. We think achievable for all. Design – great-tasting products about these trends when we And it’s built to last, with a that are sustainable and develop products and now offer guarantee of 25 years on the frame affordable. We continue to use solutions that enable customers and 10 years on the belt drive. The SLADDA has received our Balanced Meal standard, to connect with nature, stay WATCH international acclaim for great developed in FY15, to measure healthy and grow and cook THE VIDEO product design, with a Red Dot and improve the nutritional their own fresh food. Design Award. value and calorie counts of 2  https://esa.un.org/unpd/wup/Publications/Files/WUP2014-Highlights.pdf A MORE SUSTAINABLE AND HEALTHIER LIFE AT HOME Enabling a more sustainable and healthy life at home | Inspiring more sustainable and healthy living 15 SAVING AND GENERATING ENERGY For many people, energy is the biggest household and our partners’ expertise in solar, to create the target accordingly. We are also looking into offers high-quality lighting at a low cost. And in expense. Our products enable customers to cut best offer for our customers. By using these highother potential solutions that are relevant in September 2015, we achieved our goal to convert their energy use, bills and carbon emissions. quality, affordable solar systems, customers can all our markets. our entire lighting range to LED. save up to 50% on their electricity bills. There are many simple ways to save energy Our new TILLREDA portable induction hob is 40% In December 2015, we joined the Global Lighting at home. It all starts with gaining a better We are on an exciting journey to make solar more energy efficient than other hob varieties. Challenge (www.globallightingchallenge.org), an understanding of how much energy you are energy mainstream around the world. During It uses induction technology to prevent heat loss initiative that aims to achieve cumulative global using, and where. Our SPARSNÄS energy FY17 we aim to launch home solar across a by adapting to any size or shape of pan, halving sales of 10 billion energy-efficient bulbs. As part meters receive real-time data through a wireless further nine countries. cooking time compared to conventional hobs. of this, we announced our ambition to sell 500 transmitter, displaying information in an easy to TILLREDA won international recognition in 2016, million LED bulbs between the start of 2015 and understand format, so that customers can target receiving the Red Dot design award. the end of 2020. If all of these bulbs replace their energy-saving efforts. incandescent models, it will save enough energy We aim to offer the most energy-efficient home each year to meet the annual electricity needs of Homes lose heat through floors, doors and appliances at the lowest price. Many of our ovens, every household in Paris and London.3 In FY16, windows. Rugs and curtains provide insulation fridges, dishwashers and washing machines are A we sold 79.1 million LED bulbs, bringing us 16% and are a simple way to save energy and regulate and A+++ classified. In FY17, we plan to launch of the way towards this ambition. All of our indoor temperatures. For example, hanging our new dishwashers with A+++ ratings in Europe lamps that include an in-built light are also LED, ANVÄNDBAR drapes on the inside of the door to offer even more energy-efficient options for enabling our customers to reduce their energy helps to prevent drafts. customers. In North America, we will only offer consumption. We sold over 28 million LED lamps cooling products with an Energy Star rating. We in FY16. We are going all-in with LED across our “The energy of the future is going are working to ensure that these products are own buildings too, see page 45. to be about millions of homes available across our markets. making energy, not big coal fired power stations.” Switching to LED STEVE HOWARD LED bulbs use up to 85% less energy than ENERGY-EFFICIENT PRODUCTS Chief Sustainability Officer, IKEA Group WATCH traditional incandescent bulbs, and last up to 20 THE VIDEO years. But for a long time, people were reluctant % OF ALL LIGHTING PRODUCTS WHICH WERE to switch, because of the high price and the LED OR WERE COMPATIBLE WITH LED BULBS4 Going all-in with solar power perception of lower quality light. We took the LED More energy efficient products lightbulb and started again, to create a range that We generate and use solar power across our operations, with over 730,000 solar panels on Many of our products support customers to the roofs of our stores and buildings. We want to manage their energy use. Our cold-start mixer inspire and enable our customers to do the same taps, including BOSJÖN, cut energy consumption “Since I swapped all my 28 light at home. by around 30% by preventing unintentional use bulbs to LEDARE – it has made of hot water. We are developing a new range of a huge difference to my bill, We have learned a lot from our trials of home showers and taps that save energy and water. I now pay around 25% less per solar in the Netherlands, Switzerland and 75 90 100 quarter for my electricity.” the UK, since FY15. In FY16 we developed a Our energy-efficient induction hobs cook food FY14 FY15 FY16 new approach that is simple, affordable and faster and use less energy than conventional reliable. Together with carefully selected solar stoves. In FY16, 63% of our hobs were induction PETERSON LAI business partners, we offer a full service taking models, slightly less than FY15. Not all homes Co-worker & Sustainability Ambassador IKEA Australia 3 http://www.globallightingchallenge.org/WhosIn/Participants/IKEA customers from quote through to installation and have the electrical infrastructure needed for 4 B  y September 2015 our entire lighting range was LED or compatible with maintenance. We are using our retail strength induction hobs, and we are re-assessing our LED bulbs. A MORE SUSTAINABLE AND HEALTHIER LIFE AT HOME Enabling a more sustainable and healthy life at home | Inspiring more sustainable and healthy living 16 KORKEN glass jars are a great way to store SAVING WATER dry food and preserve Water is a precious resource and we want to give fruits and vegetables. our customers the products and know-how to conserve it. Many of our taps combine pressure-compensating RECHARGING FOR aerators and cold-start functions, which save energy and water. The pressure-compensating THE PLANET! Products like our VARIERA bins enable customers to sort waste aerator featured in all our kitchen taps reduces for recycling – so that their waste water use by up to 40%. All new bathroom taps RECHARGEABLE BATTERIES – AN EXPENSIVE, can become a resource. The bins have a cold start function that enables customers INCONVENIENT ALTERNATIVE TO DISPOSABLE are easy to carry, lock in odours to cut energy use. Our water-efficient dishwashers, BATTERIES? NOT ANYMORE. and can be customised to fit any space. such as LAGAN, also enable customers to use less There couldn’t be a simpler way to save money, water than hand washing. time, and the planet. We are also developing a new range of showers and taps with more water saving features. WASTING LESS Our LADDA rechargeable batteries can be charged up to 1,500 times, saving time and money. For example, a family in Germany can save up to EUR 75 in one year by using Everyone can recycle and avoid producing Republic we covered bus and tram stops with “Washing up by hand is a thing of the LADDA batteries instead of disposable batteries. excessive waste. And by only using what we posters demonstrating how to store food and past in our house. We save 1,100 litres need, we can save money while protecting the sort waste. every month with our dishwasher, And we’ve expanded our range of LADDA that’s almost six bathtubs full. And rechargeable batteries to include higher-energy planet. Materials like plastic, paper and metal that’s not all: we have regained two models for all needs. can have a new life after recycling, turning waste Sorting waste hours of time that we previously into a resource. We offer a range of simple and But we know that finding somewhere to store needed to wash by hand.” affordable solutions for customers to sort and Recycling and waste collection systems vary and recharge batteries can be difficult. That’s around the world and it can be difficult to reduce waste at home. SANDRINE AND JÉRÉMIE why we developed STORHÖGEN, which charges understand how to sort waste. Having the right Switzerland up to 12 batteries at the same time. Indicator bins helps. lights show when batteries are fully charged, and Food waste the device then switches to standby, offering safe All of our kitchen taps, Every year, around a third of all food produced in including BOSJÖN, and stylish storage. A smaller portable charger, Long-lasting products the world is wasted. Our products and solutions feature a pressure VINNINGE, charges two batteries at a time by enable customers to waste less and save on We want customers to enjoy our products for compensating aerator USB, keeping you powered up wherever you are. their food bills. But this is not always easy, as long as possible. Find out more about how that restricts the flow of water, reducing water especially if you do not know how. we design long-lasting and durable products use by up to 40%. “I would normally spend a lot on single on page 34. We researched households in Germany and use batteries. After using LADDA China in FY15, and found that the biggest rechargeable batteries I’ll have challenges facing customers are a lack of knowFurniture take-back recouped the cost in less than 10 how on food storage, shortage of space, and a Our washing up bowls, months! More importantly, I’ll never In some markets, customers can take back their like GRUNDVATTNET get caught short of batteries when my lack of systems in modern houses to store food. unwanted furniture to our stores and we work mean that you do not game equipment or wireless keyboard These findings guide the development of our with local charity partners to rehome the old need to keep the tap batteries fade. And, in four and a half future products. furniture. For example, in Finland, IKEA FAMILY running. years I’ll have diverted at least 495 members can exchange their unwanted furniture Customers can find out how to make the most of batteries from being thrown in the bin.” for an IKEA gift card. Learn more about how our products to preserve food, using the tips on HUW LIGHTFOOT Co-worker, IKEA UK our website. In some countries we go further to we are supporting the transition to a circular get the message out. For example, in the Czech economy on page 23. A MORE SUSTAINABLE AND HEALTHIER LIFE AT HOME Enabling a more sustainable and healthy life at home | Inspiring more sustainable and healthy living 17 STAKEHOLDER CHALLENGE REINVIGORATING THE MOVEMENT FOR SUSTAINABLE LIVING Dear IKEA, This insight is the first stage of our 783 million visits to our stores product development. We use it to across 28 countries. The greatest “You have switched the identify our customers’ needs and impact we can have is to inspire entire IKEA lighting dreams. Then we use the principles people to live more sustainably. range to LED, you offer of Democratic Design to create Our More sustainable life at home waste sorting bins and products with good form, function, engagement project is working food containers – but quality, low cost, and built-in with co-workers and customers what’s next? How can sustainability. The principles are in 22 countries, offering them you really contribute to critically important – following them the solutions, support and ideas more sustainable living is how we ensure that all of our they need to make a change to through your range?” products maintain the same high sustainable living. standards at low cost. Our ambition is to stimulate the IAN CHRISTIE Sometimes our innovation process movement for sustainable living. Fellow, Centre for Environment and Sustainability, University of Surrey leads to solutions that you might We have accomplished a lot but we not expect from a home furnishing know there is more we can do. Hej Ian! company – like our SLADDA bike. We will continue researching how “Innovative products will always play Many of our customers live in cities, best we can achieve our aim, and a big role in sustainable living. But without a car of their own. So how best to use our influence for a new, better products will never be we designed a bike that requires better – and more sustainable enough: it’s the small everyday minimum maintenance and makes – life at home.” changes in the way we live that add sustainable transport easy, low up to big, positive impacts on the cost and accessible to the many NANETTE WEISDAL planet. This demands two actions: people. We applied the same Development Leader a decision to make a change, and principles to our iconic meatballs. Sustainability Range support in making it happen. IKEA IKEA of Sweden Raising animals has a big impact can offer inspiration and support. on the planet, so we came up with We’re obsessed with life at home. a tasty and affordable vegetarian For decades, we’ve visited people’s alternative the GRÖNSAKSBULLAR homes all around the world, learning veggie balls! about their everyday lives, their But sustainable innovations are challenges, and what they love or wasted if people aren’t inspired want to change about their homes. to use them. In FY16, there were A MORE SUSTAINABLE AND HEALTHIER LIFE AT HOME Enabling a more sustainable and healthy life at home | Inspiring more sustainable and healthy living 18 INSPIRING MORE SUSTAINABLE AND HEALTHY LIVING WE WANT TO INSPIRE AND EXCITE OUR CUSTOMERS AND CO-WORKERS ABOUT SUSTAINABLE, HEALTHY LIVING. FUN, SIMPLE AND EFFECTIVE COMMUNICATION IS KEY. PUTTING SUSTAINABILITY ON THE AGENDA “I ALWAYS INTRODUCE MYSELF AS CO-RESPONSIBLE FOR People can read about the engage our customers. The more SUSTAINABILITY ALONG WITH 163,600 CO-WORKERS,” SAYS sustainability benefits of our they know about our products and STEVE HOWARD, IKEA GROUP CHIEF SUSTAINABILITY OFFICER. products on our website, social services, the better they can inspire Fortunately for Steve, sustainability is on everyone at work and found out I wasn’t media, catalogue, price tags, customers to live a more sustainable the agenda for Country Retail Managers the only one. We all really love what we are and through in-store events and and healthier life. Read more about around the world. doing in sustainability. The more we talk communications. how sustainability is embedded about it, the bigger impact we can have on across IKEA in the feature on “In Switzerland, sustainability is always Our co-workers are the face of our our co-workers and wider society. It is what the right. on the agenda of our leadership meetings business, and the best people to you and I do every day, small and big, that and is one of the three main focus areas makes a difference.” of our business strategy,” explains IKEA Retail Switzerland’s Country Retail Manager, Pia Heidenmark Cook, Head of Simona Scarpaleggia. “The People & Sustainability for Retail & Expansion, has PEOPLE & PLANET STATUS PERFORMANCE Planet Positive strategy has anchored the found that more and more people are POSITIVE TARGETS IN FY16 topic at the highest level.” becoming interested in sustainability. “IKEA leaders are increasingly engaged Over the years, our Country Retail Take a lead, together with Continued research into in sustainability, as they see that it our customers and others future homes and how to Managers have seen their roles change. contributes to growth, positioning and in society, in re-thinking enable more sustainable Along with running the day-to-day engages both co-workers and customers, the nature of future homes living. operations, they have become advocates and communities to provide and the communities around our stores,” for sustainability. Simona, for example, examples of attractive, she says. affordable and sustainable is co-chair of the UN High Level Panel on living. Women’s Economic Empowerment. Tolga Öncü, Country Retail Manager, IKEA Retail Our Country Retail Manager Enable our co-workers to live 771 co-workers across Spain, agrees: “I love in Canada, Stefan a more sustainable life at nine countries participated retail. I have a passion Sjöstrand, encourages his home by using our solutions in More sustainable life at for the customer, the or knowledge for reducing home projects in FY16 and family to make changes range and growth. And energy, water and waste at we extended the project to around the house like home, through a dedicated 227 customers. sustainability is great for switching to LED and sorting global project beginning in retail. It has been so encouraging to see waste. “When I became 2014. everyone across the value chain – not Country Retail Manager, I really wanted to just in Spain – walk the walk and create a inspire my co-workers and customers to LEGEND: Achieved Ongoing Not achieved positive impact on people and the planet.” live a more sustainable life at home. I told A MORE SUSTAINABLE AND HEALTHIER LIFE AT HOME Enabling a more sustainable and healthy life at home | Inspiring more sustainable and healthy living 19 Participants from our More sustainable living project share “The co-worker project has their experiences on social media. opened up some fantastic opportunities for me to expand my skills as a coworker – like trying out public speaking at the IKEA FAMILY Mega events.” ENGAGING OUR CO-WORKERS DENNIZ FJERDINGBY Deputy Shopkeeper AND CUSTOMERS Kitchen and Dining Team IKEA Norway The best way to understand the benefits of our products is to try them at home. Since FY14, our More sustainable life at home coworker engagement project has given around 3,300 co-workers from across 22 countries the opportunity to take home IKEA products from the ‘More sustainable life at home’ range. Having tried the products, participants are encouraged to become ambassadors for a sustainable life at home, sharing their new understanding and experience on blogs, social media and with fellow co-workers. As well as being a great way for co-workers to improve their understanding of the range so they can talk to customers from experience, it provides an opportunity for them to build confidence, Participants from our be creative and gain new skills for career “I used to work in Recovery, but MORE SUSTAINABLE development. LIVING PROJECT after really enjoying taking part in share their experiences the co-worker engagement project, We extended this project to our customers in on social media I realised that I wanted to be the FY15, and have since engaged 418 customers one to share IKEA’s sustainability and bloggers across nine countries. stories and People & Planet Positive initiative. So I applied for an internal We want to engage the communities both communication role, and now I lead near, and further away, from our stores. In the co-worker project in my store! I Switzerland, we are promoting energy-efficient am so excited about the next stages products on a roadshow across nine Swiss of my career!” cities, as part of a year-long national campaign called Energy Challenge. In Norway, we opened CHARMAGNE YEUNG Communication Responsible, a neighbourhood pop-up restaurant where IKEA Canada guests brought their unwanted food to be converted into delicious meals. A MORE SUSTAINABLE AND HEALTHIER LIFE AT HOME Enabling a more sustainable and healthy life at home | Inspiring more sustainable and healthy living 20 IKEA FAMILY In Austria, we held an ‘Ideas close collaboration with IKEA Festival’ where members learned FAMILY – engaging hundreds IKEA FAMILY is a loyalty more about sustainability and of members to live sustainably. programme that provides took part in family activities, In Sweden, for example, 100 exclusive benefits and rewards to like arts and crafts, and treasure members participated in the customers. In FY16, there were hunts themed around living a IKEA HÅLLBARA IHOP project. over 100 million IKEA FAMILY more sustainable and healthier We created an online community members, across 28 different life at home. In Italy, we launched where participants could share markets. We regularly engage the Make your home greener their tips and held Mega events with our members on how to live competition, for all IKEA FAMILY in all stores across Sweden. We more sustainably through digital members around a two-day Mega hope to extend the benefits of this communications and benefit event. The winners received project to more of our members schemes. And we often hold a voucher to spend on More around the world. Mega events for members in our sustainable life at home products, stores around the world, including and learned about sustainable sustainability themed days where living from our sustainability attendees can learn all about co-worker ambassadors. In living sustainably at home. In many countries, the More FY16, we hosted events like these sustainable life at home customer in 17 countries. engagement project was run in DOWNTOWN KITCHEN POLAND THE KITCHEN IS THE HEART OF THE HOME. IT IS WHERE WE COOK AND SHARE MEALS WITH OUR LOVED ONES, AND IT UNITES US AROUND ONE OF THE MOST IMPORTANT THINGS IN LIFE – FOOD. We wanted to provide a space to gather people on food and togetherness into a centre for in the kitchen and give them the opportunity learning about a sustainable way of life. We to see, touch and use our products that can hold workshops offering sustainable living tips, support them in living a more sustainable life like how to preserve, store and grow your own at home. food, sort waste, and save energy and water. At the end of each event, we test our guests’ We created Kuchnia Spotkan, a bookable new knowledge and gather their feedback on meeting and social space in the centre of a dedicated app, so that we can constantly Warsaw, Poland, where members of the “It makes me proud to sort my “We’ve learned to use our home a little improve. public can bring their friends and make use waste at home. I am proud better: using less lighting, turning down when I cook vegetarian food the boiler, a different setting for the of two kitchens over two storeys, filled with Guests don’t even need to be physically there. and my kitchen is filled with dishwasher. We can all benefit from making sustainable products. Use of the space is free, We host media debates and share our knowhome grown vegetables. I might small changes to live more sustainably, for guests just bring their own ingredients and can how and information on our products and have been able to do this on my ourselves, our children and for our planet. make meals using our ovens, wash up with our solutions on our website and social media own, but it is really IKEA that It’s those small changes that have reduced dishwashers and relax on our chairs and sofas. channels. And customers and bloggers often got me started. And for that my monthly energy costs by 20% – There is even an area for children to play with share their own pictures and videos online. I am grateful.” I’m very pleased with that!” our toys. So far, our campaign has reached over 8 million Since opening in November 2015, Kuchnia people, including more than 5,000 guests. MOSAWER AHMAD GEMMA MATHISON Customer, Sweden Customer, UK Spotkan has transformed from a space focused A MORE SUSTAINABLE AND HEALTHIER LIFE AT HOME Enabling a more sustainable and healthy life at home | Inspiring more sustainable and healthy living 21 RESOURCE AND ENERGY INDEPENDENCE You will find IKEA products in millions To do this, we must find sustainable sources of homes around the world. But the of materials and use them responsibly. planet is our home too. We want the We think about sustainability at all stages way we use resources and energy of product design, and use it to guide to have a positive impact on people our work with suppliers. And in our own and the planet. operations, we make sure to use resources and energy as efficiently as possible. RESOURCE AND ENERGY INDEPENDENCE Responsible sourcing | More sustainable products | More sustainable operations 22 IKEA PS VASE – Glass that has been rejected in the production of other IKEA products, due to TRANSITIONING TO A CIRCULAR ECONOMY bubbles or defects, is melted down and mouthblown into the PS Vase. Using leftover material in a range of colours makes each one unique. TAKE, MAKE, DISPOSE. THAT’S THE MODEL OUR n g  enerating our own renewable energy and using it ECONOMY IS BASED ON. BUT IT’S efficiently. NOT SUSTAINABLE. Read more about how we improve the sustainability of our operations on page 41. The global population is growing, and many people are coming out of poverty. This provides a huge opportunity 3. Meeting our customers for IKEA to grow and enable even more people to create We will support our customers to prolong the life of a better everyday life at home. But resources are not their products and find new uses for things they no unlimited, and we need to find new ways of working to be longer need. We will meet our customers more often, able to meet people’s needs and dreams at home while to enable them to: staying within the limits of our planet. n repair products We want IKEA to have a positive impact on people and the planet. That includes playing our part in the shift to a n rent and share them circular economy, and eliminating waste across our value n r eturn unwanted products to IKEA, to be given a chain. second life in another home or recycled into a new Our focus is on three important areas. product. Read more about how we inspire our customers to live 1. P roducts and services more sustainably on page 19, and our takeback services It all starts here. Products must be designed to: available in some markets on page 17. PRODUCTS KUNGSBACKA kitchen fronts – Made from FSC® certified recycled wood and plastic foil made n last as long as they are needed and give our The transition to a circular economy is critical to securing COMING IN from recycled PET bottles collected by Japanese customers the best value for money the sources of materials that we use to create our FEBRUARY municipalities. n make the most efficient use of resources – more products. It will allow us to continue to meet the needs 2017 from less of the many people in life at home and ensure the future success of our business. n use materials that are recyclable, recycled, or renewable, and from more sustainable sources We already aim to increase the share of renewable, recyclable or recycled materials in our products, but we n  e easy to care for, repair, adapt, disassemble and b want to go beyond that. Our ambition is to reuse and reassemble, and recycle. recycle waste – including that from our own operations Read more about our work to design and develop more and products – to cut our demand for virgin raw materials. sustainable products on page 34. This requires the commitment of everyone across our value chain – from the people who source our materials 2. Buildings and transport to our customers who care for their products and choose We will work across our own operations and with our what to do with their old products. suppliers and partners to produce and distribute our products in the most efficient way. This means: We are only at the beginning, and we have already created TOMAT spray new, beautiful and functional products from materials that bottle – n m  inimising or eliminating waste through our goal would otherwise have been thrown away (see right). Part of the virgin to strive for zero waste wherever possible plastic used in n turning unavoidable waste into resources the bottle is replaced with waste plastic from our stores. RESOURCE AND ENERGY INDEPENDENCE Responsible sourcing | More sustainable products | More sustainable operations 23 RESPONSIBLE SOURCING Many of our materials – like wood and cotton – Our goal is for responsible sourcing to have PROTECTING THE RAW MATERIALS THAT GO INTO IKEA PRODUCTS AND ENSURING A are renewable, and we need to make sure they a positive impact on people and the planet. SUSTAINABLE SUPPLY CHAIN IS VITAL FOR THE LONG-TERM VIABILITY OF OUR BUSINESS. are grown and harvested responsibly. Other This sometimes means going beyond our raw materials – including fossil-based plastic supply chain, to make sustainable resource and metals – are not renewable. Our challenge management the norm across the industry. is to use those that are recyclable and recycled Together with suppliers, governments, where we can. businesses and other partners, we can find new ways to innovate and create PEOPLE & PLANET STATUS PERFORMANCE IN FY16 Whatever the material, we want to go positive change. POSITIVE TARGETS beyond just reducing the negative impact. By August 2017, at least 50% of our wood Achieved ahead of schedule – in FY16, 61% of our will come from more sustainable sources. wood was from more sustainable sources. By August 2020, we aim to source 100% of our wood, paper and cardboard from more sustainable sources.1 By August 2015, all cotton used in Achieved – 100% of cotton from more sustainable IKEA products will be sourced from sources.2 more sustainable sources, and we will continuously investigate complementary fibres with improved sustainability performance compared to cotton. By December 2015, all palm oil, currently Total 96% (Candles 100%, food approximately used in home furnishing products such as 50%). candles or as a food ingredient, will either come from certified segregated sustainable sources or be substituted with more sustainable alternatives. By August 2017, we will have secured On track – achieved traceability of cattle leather and traceability of all leather back to slaughter hides back to slaughterhouses in FY16. house level and will have developed and started to implement requirements to secure social & animal welfare issues at these sites. All seafood sourced for IKEA will be certified. Achieved, with some exceptions see page 31. LEGEND: Achieved Ongoing Not achieved 1 Currently defined as FSC® certified or recycled wood. 2 I ncludes cotton grown to the Better Cotton Standard; by farmers working towards Better Cotton; recycled cotton and more sustainable cotton from the USA (such as the ‘e3 Cotton Program’). RESOURCE AND ENERGY INDEPENDENCE Responsible sourcing | More sustainable products | More sustainable operations 24 WOOD AND PAPER of wood from those countries from a ‘goal’ to a 61 % TOTAL WOOD IN IKEA PRODUCTS OF WOOD WAS FROM MORE ‘requirement’. We have achieved this milestone (MILLION M3 RWE)3 SUSTAINABLE SOURCES IN FY163 and from 1 September 2016 100% of our wood from priority areas was from more sustainable All our wood is sourced in compliance with the sources. This required a focused effort and IKEA Forestry Standard (see page 27). In FY16, engagement from our forestry teams, business 61% of the wood we sourced came from more categories and business teams, suppliers, their sustainable sources, including 57% from FSC® partners and IKEA forestry partnerships around certified and 4% from recycled sources. IKEA is the world. one of the world’s biggest users of FSC certified wood, purchasing over 9 million m3 annually – From 50% in FY15 to 61% in FY16, we are which accounts for over 3% of global output. moving closer to our 2020 target to source 100% of wood from more sustainable sources. Around 30% of the wood we use comes from However, reaching this goal will be a challenge. 13.78 15.50 16.12 15.75 priority areas, where there is a higher risk of Although all wood that we source fulfils the IWAY FY14 FY15 FY16 illegal or irresponsible forestry practices, such Forestry Standard, we are already starting to see as China, Russia, South and Southeast Asia and the limits of FSC certified wood available in the WATCH THE VIDEO ON Southeast Europe. We set an ambitious goal that markets we source from – particularly given our FOREST POSITIVE all wood from these countries would come from big push in FY16. With current global availability, TO LEARN MORE COUNTRIES WE SOURCE WOOD FROM (FY16) more sustainable sources by August 2017. This we predict that we could hit 80% by 2020. To (% WOOD SOURCED) raised the status of more sustainable sources reach 100% we need to think bigger. Wood is fundamental to IKEA. We are one of the biggest users of wood in the retail sector globally. TYPES OF WOOD SOURCED (%) WOOD FROM MORE SUSTAINABLE SOURCES4 (% WOOD SOURCED) Around two thirds of IKEA home furnishing products contain wood, and we use paper in 27.7 0.8 notebooks, napkins and much of our packaging. 36.5 In FY16, we used 15.75 million m3 of roundwood equivalent, which is 2% less than FY15, despite an increase in the volume of products containing wood that we sold. This was thanks to new 7.0 40.6 product designs and materials that enable us to make more from less. 4.3 6.9 5.2 6.9 58.7 5.4 Wood is a beautiful, durable material that can last for generations. But forests are fragile and sensitive to how we treat them. The size of our Poland Germany operations means we have a great opportunity – Russia Romania and responsibility – to protect the world’s forests. Sweden China 23 41 50 61 That is why we have a goal to become forest positive. We aim to source 100% of our wood Lithuania Other countries (<3%) Solid wood Wood-based board Bamboo FY14 FY15 FY16 from more sustainable sources, and work with others to increase the area of global forests that 3 R  oundwood equivalent (rwe) is the volume of roundwood (logs) required to produce IKEA products. Data covers all solid wood and wood-based board used in IKEA products, 4 F  rom forests certified to the FSC Forest Management standard and recycled are managed sustainably. but excludes wood used in packaging and printing and paper used in products such as napkins. wood. Includes solid wood and wood-based board. RESOURCE AND ENERGY INDEPENDENCE Responsible sourcing | More sustainable products | More sustainable operations 25 Scaling up forest positive the current situation and how they can form coTogether with a wide range of partners, we are operatives and farmer groups. We are also working FOCUS ON BAMBOO with WWF in Thailand to identify alternative ways working to increase the global supply of wood from to transform smallholder forestry practices to more sustainable sources. This is not just about become more sustainable. To further strengthen our own target to source 100% of our wood from availability of this wood in IKEA supply chains, we more sustainable sources. Our goal is to become plan to expand the criteria for wood from more forest positive – when our contribution goes far sustainable sources to include wood from such beyond our own needs, helping to transform the projects with small forest holders. industry and drive positive change through society. We do this by working to end deforestation by Efficient use of resources is another important part promoting the adoption of sustainable forestry of becoming forest positive. We are working with methods. one of our outdoor furniture suppliers in Vietnam – Woodsland – to improve resource efficiency. The In FY16, we worked with WWF to increase levels project is based on value chain optimisation and of wood from more sustainable sources in priority making more from less. There is great potential to countries.5 Together we contributed to the improve the total yield from log to component by To meet fast-growing demand for our certification of an additional 1.8 million hectares around 8 to 10% simply by improving sawing and products, we need sustainable and fastof forest to FSC® standards. This is an area far drying techniques. growing raw materials. Bamboo can reach full greater than would be needed to meet our wood height in two months, and can be ready to demand in these countries – that’s what we mean harvest after three to seven years. by forest positive. Provided that it is FSC certified and grown Strengthening the business case for certified in an environmentally, socially and forests is an important way to increase supply economically responsible way, bamboo can of more sustainable wood. One way to do this be a fantastic sustainable raw material. We is by assessing the impacts of FSC certification, have been working with our suppliers to and demonstrating clear evidence of the benefits secure good working conditions for farmers to forests and communities. In 2014, we joined FOCUS ON FSC forces with Tetrapak and Kingfisher to form and make sure the bamboo we use in IKEA products has a positive impact on people CERTIFICATION VIA, the Value and Impact Analysis Initiative, a and the planet. precompetitive collaboration to understand the best ways to measure and communicate the More than 90% of the bamboo we use is FSC (the Forest Stewardship Council) is positive impacts of FSC certification. In FY16, “Smallholders and community enterprises grown in China, and in FY16 90% of the an international organisation dedicated to leading expert members of the Technical Advisory form the backbone of rural livelihoods in Chinese bamboo we used was FSC certified. promoting responsible management of the Group met to evaluate specific methodologies. Vietnam and underpin its supply of wood world’s forests. Its certification system has Larry Lin is the founder of Dasso, one of our and non-wood products to commercial two key components. Smallholder farmers represent an important source bamboo suppliers in China: “Together with markets. Together, WWF and IKEA have of wood worldwide, but often find it difficult to shown that sustainable acacia, bamboo IKEA we have raised quality and efficiency n Forest Management: Ensures that forests become FSC certified (see feature on page 28). and rattan can benefit rural communities for material use and production. I firmly are managed to high social, economic and It is often expensive and complicated for them while reducing pressure on forest believe that IKEA has helped to increase environmental standards. to become FSC certified, and they therefore ecosystems. We must now scale up standards throughout the bamboo industry n C  hain of Custody: Traces wood from risk being excluded from the sustainable wood the approaches developed through this in China, as well as securing work for many forests through processing and distribution, supply chain. We are working with the United partnership, to tackle today's challenges bamboo farmers.” ensuring that no non-certified material Nations Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) of decreasing forest resources and a We have come a long way in China, and enters the certified value chain. to understand how best to remove obstacles for growing population.” THIBAULT LEDECQ look forward to rolling out these standards to forest certification and ensure smallholders have develop the bamboo industry in India Regional Forest Coordinator access to global supply chains. The project is WWF-Greater Mekong Programme and Vietnam. 5 C  ountries where there is a higher risk of illegal or irresponsible forestry practices, such as China, Russia, Southeast Asia and Southeast Europe. working with farmers in Vietnam to understand RESOURCE AND ENERGY INDEPENDENCE Responsible sourcing | More sustainable products | More sustainable operations 26 Purchasing our own forests TRANSFORMING THE Investing in our own forest land enables us to AUDITS OF OUR WOOD SUPPLY CHAIN BOARD INDUSTRY promote responsible forestry and support local FY14 FY15 FY16 IN CHINA WITH FSC economies, while securing a reliable source of wood for our business. In Romania, we now own 46,700 FSC Chain of Custody certification hectares of forest land, which has already been THERE ARE NO HALF MEASURES IF YOU WANT IKEA suppliers that are FSC awarded FSC certification for forest management. 66.1 72 77 Chain of Custody certified (%) TO MAINTAIN HIGH STANDARDS IN FORESTRY. IKEA Industry Malacky, in Slovakia, purchased a We learned that lesson in China in 2015 after 4,000 hectare short-rotation plantation (SRP) in Sunway, a big fibreboard producer that supplies Total wood volume from 2015. Tree species used in SRPs mature much FSC Chain of Custody 94.8 98 99 several of our suppliers, failed to prove the faster than traditional species, producing wood that certified suppliers (%) legal origin of its wood. This was a serious is strong, lightweight, and can be more frequently violation of our forestry standards and we had harvested. By FY20 the wood will be ready to IWAY Forestry Standard audits to take action. harvest, and will provide 30% of the wood needed We understood Sunway’s challenge. To get to make products at Malacky. Number of IKEA audits — the information we needed, Sunway had to under IWAY Forestry Standard 143 108 181 navigate an intricate supply chain of many Auditing and compliance and IKEA wood supply chain (4) (6) (8) audits (number performed small forest farmers. Complex local laws made The IKEA forestry team works closely with by 3rd party auditors) it very difficult to monitor legal compliance. suppliers to ensure that they meet IKEA In 2013, we had completed a successful project requirements on wood. The IKEA Way on Purchasing with WWF to certify the timber produced by Products and Services (IWAY) contains minimum Wood volumes that underwent an IKEA audit that comply a group of more than 4,000 small growers in requirements for wood, bamboo and board 99.0 98.2 99.4 with IKEA Forestry Standards northern China to FSC standards. If we could suppliers, known as the IWAY Forestry Standard. (%) succeed with those farmers, why not with the The requirements state that wood must come from growers who supplied Sunway? legally harvested forests free from social conflict, and not from high conservation value natural FSC certified wood are audited predominantly That is why we decided to take a big step and forests, converted tropical and sub-tropical forest on an annual basis by independent FSC encourage Sunway suppliers to aim for FSC or genetically modified tree plantations. All accredited certification organisations. certification. The process was not easy, but it was an essential step for Sunway to meet our suppliers must follow these requirements. n S uppliers not covered by FSC CoC certification are supplier standards and continue operating in Read more about IWAY on page 61. audited by IKEA or independent auditors acting on our supply chain. We worked with almost 5,000 By January 2017 we aim to release an updated our behalf. growers to improve their forest management standard that will cover more materials, including n I KEA audits of suppliers in higher-risk areas can and safety practices, and provided the training paper and wood-plastic mixes. Instead of being cover the entire supply chain back to the forest, they needed to meet FSC requirements. only for home furnishing products, the scope will including wood processing. The Sunway project was a success and inspired include all wood-based items purchased across IKEA, It is important to train relevant forestry co-workers us to apply the same high standards to all Other board producers saw the benefits and such as paper and packaging as well as our home so that they fully understand and can maintain board suppliers in China. After huge efforts have worked to get certification. We now have furnishing products. these standards. Training people involved in wood from IKEA teams, suppliers and their partners more FSC certified board than we need for We also encourage suppliers to work towards FSC purchasing operations is part of our obligation under – supported by WWF and the China Academy IKEA products. Over a relatively short period, Chain of Custody (CoC) to ensure that the certified the EU Timber Regulation. During FY16, we ran of Forestry – some 16,000 small growers we encouraged the board industry in China to wood they use is not contaminated. Depending one-day training sessions for 146 co-workers in have now dramatically improved their forestry transform its raw material sourcing to become on the standards they use, suppliers are audited 11 countries on the importance of wood to IKEA, practices. More than 81,000 hectares of forest more responsible – a major step on our way to differently. 4 F  rom forests certified to the FSC Forest Management standard and recycled legal requirements, and types of certification. have wood. gained Includes FSC solid wood andcertification wood-based board.as a result. becoming forest positive. n S  uppliers who have achieved FSC CoC certification and make IKEA products from RESOURCE AND ENERGY INDEPENDENCE Responsible sourcing | More sustainable products | More sustainable operations 27 STAKEHOLDER CHALLENGE FOREST CERTIFICATION – LEAVING NO-ONE BEHIND Many certification schemes have long Together with our partners, we are working lists of requirements that are difficult on a number of projects to understand to implement, and slow to evolve. Each the specific challenges growers face. Then country or region is different – so a ‘one we can define responsible forestry criteria size fits all’ solution does not work at that ultimately benefit smallholders, and smallholder level. Far too many of the incentivise positive change. Eventually, we audits performed on behalf of certifiers plan to integrate a new category into our are too dispersed and do not focus on definition of wood from more sustainable real, practical issues in each landscape. sources: wood from responsible forestry projects with smallholders. “Companies need to break We will not replace existing certification away from outdated systems mechanisms. FSC is well-known, welland focus on real impacts established, and has a solid compliance on the ground. How will monitoring mechanism. We hope our IKEA encourage this move work with smallholders will support FSC and address the challenges to improve its regional standard-setting Dear IKEA, posed by certification?” Hej Richard! process. “Sourcing wood from sustainable forest “IKEA is committed to becoming forest IKEA has come a long way already in operations around the world can be RICHARD Z. DONOVAN positive by increasing the share of wood sustainable forestry. In priority areas, Senior Vice President & Vice President of Forestry a challenge. Governments are not from more sustainable sources, and where there is a higher risk of illegal Rainforest Alliance always able to enforce minimum legal making responsible forestry practices an or irresponsible forestry practices, we requirements; companies and foresters industry norm. Today, only FSC certified now source 100% of our wood from may be reluctant to change the status and recycled wood meet our criteria for more sustainable sources. We want to quo; and much of the world’s wood more sustainable sources. extend sustainable forestry even further, is grown by smallholders, who are making sure that no-one is left behind. But we know that there are places in the harder for large companies like IKEA Community forest enterprises represent a world where wood is grown sustainably to buy from. significant proportion of the world’s forest without being certified. For smallholders, supply, and we are determined to ensure For companies wanting to minimise their for example, FSC standards may be too that they continue to have access to the environmental and social impact, buying expensive to verify. IKEA supply chain, and become a viable certified wood might seem like an obvious At the same time, we want to encourage part of it.” choice. But certification can sometimes be smallholders to make positive change in a barrier to positive change – particularly the forests they manage, but sometimes for smallholder forestry operations. FSC standards are not designed for small MIKHAIL TARASOV growers – and in such cases might not Global Forestry Manager result in improved forest management. IKEA of Sweden RESOURCE AND ENERGY INDEPENDENCE Responsible sourcing | More sustainable products | More sustainable operations 28 COTTON COTTON FROM MORE SUSTAINABLE SOURCES7 (% COTTON SOURCED) TRANSFORMING TEXTILES TOGETHER We love working with cotton. In FY16 we used 130,000 tonnes for our bed linen, towels, Nothing makes us prouder than to work with furniture covers and more. That amounts to suppliers who share our values. Since 2000, around 1% of the world’s cotton supply. But we we have been working closely with Mustaqim are uncomfortable with the fact that conventional Dyeing and Printing – one of our suppliers for cotton production can have a negative bedsheets, curtains and other cotton products environmental impact, and may be harmful for – to learn from and inspire each other on cotton farmers and their families. Many cotton 76 94.58 100 100 sustainability. Based in Pakistan, Mustaqim farmers are smallholders with income levels close supplies Better Cotton to its customers at no FY14 FY15 FY16 TARGET to or below the poverty line. extra charge, and has acquired its own spinning That is why we commit to sourcing all our cotton mill to ensure better traceability. Shahid Hasan, from more sustainable sources, and are working Regular traceability assessments enable us to General Manager of Marketing at Mustaqim, is to improve conditions in the cotton supply chain. WATCH THE guarantee that the cotton we use comes from more excited about the potential impact of this work: VIDEO ON “We believe Better Cotton can transform the Organisations like the Better Cotton Initiative IKEA AND COTTON sustainable sources. In FY16, we conducted 40 (BCI) support farmers to improve their yields TO LEARN MORE audits with our suppliers and sub-suppliers. textile market and make it more sustainable.” and incomes, enabling them to break the cycle We want our customers to know that all of the of poverty. cotton in IKEA products is produced in ways that are For example, in India we are partnering with WWF better for people and planet. That is why, in FY16, and the Gujarat Green Revolution Company, a 100% COUNTRIES WE SOURCE COTTON FROM (FY16) OF COTTON WAS FROM we communicated the milestone and the benefits it (% COTTON SOURCED) Gujarat state government company, to reduce the MORE SUSTAINABLE SOURCES IN FY16 brings through store communication, videos, on our environmental effects of cotton farming and improve website and through social media. farmers’ profitability. So far, over 4,000 farmers in In FY16, all of the cotton we used came from nine districts of Gujarat have received training on 17 more sustainable sources. Of the total amount we Evolving the cotton industry sustainable cotton principles. We are also exploring 25 use in IKEA products, 17.8% is recycled cotton. 1 an interactive, web-based app that will provide We are positive about our progress, but we know The remaining 82.2% is cotton grown to the 5 information and advice on crop management (e.g. that just one company by itself cannot transform Better Cotton Initiative (BCI) Standard (69.4%), irrigation scheduling). For more examples on how we a whole industry. Collaboration is key. IKEA is a or farmers working towards Better Cotton6 or work directly with farmers, see feature on page 30. founding member of the Better Cotton Initiative other more sustainable cotton, such as the ‘e3 11 (BCI), a multi-stakeholder organisation that aims to Cotton Program’ in the USA (12.9%). make cotton production better for the people who “Cotton from more sustainable 23 We reached this milestone at the end of FY15, so grow it, better for the environment, and better for sources across all IKEA products our challenge this year was to maintain 100%. 18 the entire sector. We are one of the world’s largest is a potential game-changer for To do this, we focused on putting the routines, users of Better Cotton. the global cotton market because training and processes in place to turn cotton it demonstrates the clear business By sharing learning and experiences with the wider from more sustainable sources from an ambitious, India Turkey Others industry, BCI aims to improve the lives of cotton case for sustainability. We need more ground-breaking project to our usual way of doing China USA farmers and increase demand for – and supply of companies to follow IKEA’s lead.” business. For example, we are planning a learning – Better Cotton so that it makes up 30% of global RICHARD HOLLAND and development programme for co-workers, Pakistan Brazil cotton production by 2020. Our Cotton Leader, Director, WWF Market Transformation Initiative9 suppliers and sub-suppliers to keep them up to Pramod Singh, sits on the BCI Council and provides date with IKEA requirements and connect them to 6 T owards Better Cotton is a standard developed by IKEA following the same support and advice for new members of BCI. changes happening at farm level. See the feature principles and criteria as Better Cotton, on its way to become Better Cotton. 8 W  e reached the 100% milestone at the end of FY15, which is why not all the cotton we sourced during the year was from more sustainable sources. (Transforming our textiles together, right) for 7 I ncludes cotton grown to the Better Cotton Initiative (BCI) Standard, famers We work with government agencies, global and local working towards BC, sustainable cotton from the USA (such as the ‘e3 Cotton 9 h  ttp://www.ikea.com/gb/en/this-is-ikea/newsroom/press-release/ikea-first-majormore about our work with suppliers. Program’), and recycled cotton. partners to run projects in our sourcing countries. retailer-to-use-100-percent-cotton/ RESOURCE AND ENERGY INDEPENDENCE Responsible sourcing | More sustainable products | More sustainable operations 29 BECOMING WATER “I have been growing cotton MAKING WATER SAFE POSITIVE for two decades. For most of that, my land was not FOR THE WHOLE WE ARE COMMITTED TO BEING WATER POSITIVE properly irrigated and I was totally dependent on the local COMMUNITY – USING WATER AS EFFICIENTLY AS POSSIBLE pesticide dealer, spraying IN OUR OPERATIONS, AND PROMOTING GOOD almost eight times per season Water is a precious resource. And it is WATER STEWARDSHIP THROUGHOUT AND – costing 15,000 rupees unique because it is shared. Because of this, BEYOND OUR VALUE CHAIN. (around EUR 200) per hectare. the actions of an individual can change its When WWF and IKEA started quality and quantity, affecting access for Our Water Working Group is developing the project and invited everyone else. milestones and a detailed roadmap to become farmers to participate, I was water positive (see page 49), based on hesitant at first as I lacked the Ensuring that a whole community has access WWF’s water stewardship model. We will knowledge. But after training, to clean, safe water can only be achieved by contribute, with others, to improved water I felt confident that Better getting everyone to work together to look management and governance in areas of our Cotton production principles after it. supply chain with high water risk, focusing on: could help me save money. This season, I used 30% less This is the focus of Asian Fabricx, our n r educing the impact of our operations and water and I spent a lot less supplier in Tamil Nadu, India – an area suppliers’ operations on pesticides just 5,900 prone to water scarcity. rupees (around EUR 80) per n s upporting sustainable water management in hectare. My net income almost By partnering with WaterAid, local river basins doubled, and I no longer have government, and local NGO LEAF Society, to rely on expensive dealers and with support from IKEA, Asian Fabricx n increasing people’s access to clean water. for the choice of product.” has launched a Water, Sanitation and One dimension of our work to become water Hygiene (WASH) project that will reach KHALIL AHMAD positive focuses on cotton – one of the most high10,000 people. First, it will explain to Lead Farmer of the Learning Group and impact crops when it comes to water. For many President of Water User Association everyone in the community about their years, we have worked with WWF on the Pakistan Punjab, Pakistan shared role to protect and maintain the Sustainable Cotton Initiative, supporting farmers water supply. At the same time, partners in Pakistan to grow Better Cotton. Since FY14, will support communities to build 500 the water project has expanded to support cotton household toilets, train 2,000 workers at growers in the Punjab region. the Asian Fabricx factory to save water and In India, we are working with WWF to improve We hope to use the results of the project to use it safely, and share these messages We provide farmers with training on better water water management and security in the Jalna demonstrate the benefits of water-smart cotton with surrounding schools and communities. management practices, and establish communityregion of Maharashtra, which has high levels of farming and irrigation management. This will The project will also regenerate the local based Water User Associations. The project has water risk. The project is investigating better ways help us engage cotton organisations, local and pond, supporting biodiversity and improving demonstrated that by using better practices on to manage water locally, such as using dykes to national governments, and other stakeholders in the ecosystem’s natural ability to clean the farm and irrigation channels, farmers can grow recharge groundwater for use in cotton farming, the region. By working together, we could create water. cotton with less water, allowing the water to without affecting local water levels. We are also holistic approaches to water management that be diverted to other uses – such as sharing it exploring new technologies like drones, soil improve crop productivity, boost farmers’ incomes There has already been a great response between more farmers. As well as water savings, moisture sensors and weather stations to collect and contribute to food security. to the first stages of the project, and we better farming techniques promote efficient use and analyse data on water use in cotton farming, are looking forward to continuing our water of fertilisers and pesticides and offer opportunities and will make it easily accessible by SMS or webstewardship journey with all of our suppliers. for education. based applications. RESOURCE AND ENERGY INDEPENDENCE Responsible sourcing | More sustainable products | More sustainable operations 30 PALM OIL FOOD Compared to other raw materials, we use relatively Strengthening standards in our No trip to IKEA is complete without a visit to We work with a large number of global and small quantities of palm oil – 41,686 tonnes in 2015. supply chain our restaurant, bistro or Swedish Food Market. local suppliers. Around half of the food we The majority (more than 90%) is in our candles, and offer is sourced locally. This allows us to meet We support RSPO certification, which includes eight We want to offer a modern taste of Sweden – the remainder is used as an ingredient in our food. regional or cultural taste preferences, source social, environmental and economic principles honest, healthy food that is good for people We take responsibility for our role in reducing the seasonal ingredients where applicable, while to protect people and the planet. The IKEA palm and the planet – and we take pride in serving social and environmental footprint of palm oil to make keeping a strong Swedish profile to offer a oil sourcing strategy goes even further, with two delicious food that people love to eat. it a sustainable raw material, with a positive impact true taste of Sweden. additional criteria. We require that palm oil used in on livelihoods. IKEA products must not: PHOTO: LINA ARVIDSSON contribute to destruction of high value forests 96% n OF PALM OIL WAS FROM MORE SUSTAINABLE SOURCES n c  ome from plantations that have been newly IN 2015 developed on peat, since peat wetlands are important carbon stores with high biodiversity value. We define palm oil from more sustainable sources as By December 2017, all our suppliers must ensure being from Roundtable for Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO) that the palm oil used in IKEA products meets these certified, segregated sources. This means that certified additional criteria (or is replaced by more sustainable palm oil is kept apart from non-certified material in raw materials). All our candle suppliers have now the supply chain. Our target was to reach 100% by produced roadmaps showing how they will reach December 2015. We reached 96% by the end of 2015, this target. We will work closely with suppliers and but completing the switch to segregated palm oil in sub-suppliers to monitor their progress, and support our local food supply chains remains challenging. The them to strengthen commitments where necessary. remaining 4% is not segregated, but we purchase It has proved challenging to do the same for the food certificates that generate a premium for producers supply chain, because of the number of products and working to RSPO standards, even when the palm oil the huge range of ingredients they contain. Since the itself is not segregated. majority of our palm oil is used in candles, we will continue to focus our efforts there. PALM OIL FROM RSPO-CERTIFIED, SEGREGATED SOURCES (% PALM OIL SOURCED)10 Partnering with others As well as being an active member of RSPO, we are partnering with the United Nations Development Programme, the Government of Indonesia, and other global corporations to set up the Sustainable Palm Oil Initiative (SPO). The project is working to make the Indonesian palm oil industry more sustainable by reducing deforestation and improving smallholder incomes and yields. In November 2015, IKEA coworkers visited Indonesia to meet with smallholder 0 32 87 96 farmers, local NGOs, government representatives and FY12 FY13 FY14 FY15 certification organisations to discuss the challenges they faced. We are looking forward to continuing this 10 Certified palm oil is measured by calendar year, not fiscal year. work in FY17. RESOURCE AND ENERGY INDEPENDENCE Responsible sourcing | More sustainable products | More sustainable operations 31 Our food strategy Soy GRÖNSAKSBULLAR our veggie We want to provide healthy food and sustainable balls are tasty and nutritious and Soy can be used as an ingredient for food food. For more information about the health provide a sustainable alternative products as well as in animal feed. One of the to meat. component, see page 15. In terms of sustainability, biggest environmental risks in the soy supply we are committed to offering food that is sourced in chain is deforestation. a way that is affordable, sustainable, transparent and Our priority is the soy used for animal feed, which traceable, with good standards of animal welfare – accounts for the majority of the soy we use. In all within the limits of one planet. FY16, 100% of the salmon and around 68% of the Many elements of our strategy are important for chicken that we source globally used soy feed that both health and sustainability. For example, we is certified to Round Table on Responsible Soy are encouraging people to choose healthier, more (RTRS) or Pro Terra standards. 11% comes from sustainable alternatives to meat like our veggie balls, producers who are part of the soy moratorium, GRÖNSAKSBULLAR. They are tasty and nutritious, a voluntary agreement not to buy soy grown in have been well received by our customers and have the Amazon on land deforested after 2006. 14% sold over forecast in FY16. After launching the veggie comes from the US, which is not considered a balls in IKEA restaurants and Swedish Food Markets high risk country for deforestation. in 2015, we are now including them in the IKEA Bistro One of the most challenging factors is that range in some markets including Germany, Sweden segregated, certified soy is not yet available in all and the Netherlands, to offer customers that want a the countries we source from. We will continue quick and tasty snack a sustainable, meat-free option. to focus on how to increase the availability of sustainable soy in these places. Fish and seafood In more complex supply chains – such as pork, We remain committed to only sourcing Aquaculture beef and dairy – influencing the feed used by Stewardship Council (ASC) or Marine Stewardship farmers is more challenging. We are taking Council (MSC) certified fish and seafood. In doing a longer-term approach to address farming this, we have brought responsibly and sustainably practices in these supply chains, by integrating sourced fish and seafood to several countries that had deforestation-free feed requirements into our never before used ASC or MSC labels such as Turkey, agricultural standards. Iceland and Saudi Arabia. In four of our smaller markets, there are complex Cocoa, coffee and tea import restrictions or a limited availability of certified All the cocoa we use in IKEA-branded chocolate seafood. In these markets, we are working closely bars is UTZ certified, meaning it has been sourced with ASC and MSC to overcome challenges and switch in a way that is fair to producers, suppliers and to certified fisheries, farms or suppliers. the environment. All of our coffee is also UTZ Another exception is crayfish: there is currently no certified, and in October 2016 we launched certified crayfish available in the world. Instead of PÅTÅR, our new coffee range in the Swedish Food removing crayfish from our menus, we are working Market, which is both UTZ certified and organic in partnership with MSC and our supplier in China according to EU standards. We serve coffee to encourage fisheries to work towards certification. carrying both certifications in IKEA restaurants PÅTÅR our new coffee and IKEA Bistros. In FY16, 59% of markets In FY16 IKEA co-workers visited the Hubei region in range is both UTZ China to understand the challenges and opportunities certified and organic served certified tea, compared to 34% in FY15. for these fisheries, where crayfish are often raised as according to This is because as well as UTZ certified tea, we part of the natural ecosystem in rice paddy fields, EU standards. have expanded our scope to include Rainforest lakes and rivers. Alliance and Fairtrade tea. RESOURCE AND ENERGY INDEPENDENCE Responsible sourcing | More sustainable products | More sustainable operations 32 ANIMAL WELFARE LEATHER Our goal is to ensure animals in our supply chain experts, veterinarians, governments, academics, Every year we use about 3 million m2 of leather – whether cattle, pigs, poultry, sheep, goats or NGOs, and other businesses. Our work has been in our home furnishing products, including fish – are treated humanely, with the opportunity improved by collaborations with organisations such sofas and rugs. This comes from eight leather to express natural behaviours. Over the past year as the Food Animal Initiative (FAI), Compassion in suppliers and three hair-on-leather suppliers. we have developed the IKEA Farm Animal Welfare World Farming (CIWF) and World Animal Protection We work closely with our partners to reduce position to drive progress on animal welfare for all (WAP). the environmental and social issues that can be animals in our supply chains. common in leather supply chains, such as forced labour and chemical pollution. Pork and beef We have created holistic guidelines to address Reducing chemicals how pigs are bred and reared, to ensure they are healthy, able to express natural behaviours Chrome is widely used in the tanning process to and do not suffer from unnecessary discomfort soften leather, but it is extremely toxic and can and confinement. For example, we source pork be harmful for workers and the environment. meat from outdoor bred pig farms in the UK that FY16 was the first year where 100% of the uphold these practices. Our next step will be to leather we used was produced with chromedevelop similar programmes for other animals, free processes. We are proud to have reached starting with cattle. Down and feathers this milestone by working with suppliers and All down and feathers used in IKEA products come encouraging them to make the switch. Eggs from ducks. We do not use down and feathers from geese due to the risk of live plucking, which Improving traceability We committed to sourcing only free range eggs is a cruel and unacceptable practice. In FY14 we (fresh, whole and liquid) by August 2015, but we The leather supply chain is notoriously complex developed requirements for the conditions in, have not been able to meet this target. We will because the production involves many steps. and transport to and from, slaughterhouses. continue to phase out caged production in the Because of this complexity, we had to revise our Since then we have performed annual audits at IKEA supply chain, and aim to source eggs from traceability target. Instead of securing chain of all slaughterhouses for ducks. hens that are raised in non-confined production custody back to the farm by August 2017, we Our vision for animal welfare systems. These enable hens to be free to move In FY16 we have developed requirements for farms aimed to trace leather back to the slaughterhouse We commit to protecting animals’ health, around and perform natural behaviours such as that will further strengthen animal welfare, and by the same date, while keeping the long term physiological and behavioural needs. This is true foraging and dustbathing. In FY16, 61% of our in FY17 we will start performing audits for farms, ambition for full chain of custody. for animal-derived raw materials used as food stores served eggs from free range or cage-free in addition to the audits for slaughterhouses and We have already collected information on almost ingredients (such as beef, chicken, pork and hens in their restaurants. transport. We aim to audit 20% of our farms all of the slaughterhouses in our leather supply salmon), or in our home furnishing range (such as by August 2017. We are also assessing the We are working closely with our markets to chain – one year before the target. That means leather, wool, down and feathers). It applies at all possibilities for using alternative materials. increase the supply of free range eggs. But in we are confident of meeting this goal in early stages of an animal’s life, along all points in our FY17. During the rest of FY17 we will continue some countries, free range eggs are not yet supply chain. available. As an interim step, we have allowed Wool to focus on securing chain of custody verification To achieve this, we will work with suppliers that a move to cage-free (or ‘barn’) eggs in these Our main focus in FY16 has been to find reliable routines and setting clear social, environmental share our values, and are willing to work together countries. In FY16, 51% of our markets served ways of tracing and verifying our wool back to and animal welfare standards. towards higher animal welfare standards. For eggs from free-range or cage-free hens. Our source, and we have made great progress. Now more information about our supplier standards, goal remains to increase the share of eggs that we better understand the supply chain, in see page 61. We also take part in constructive, from non-caged systems. FY17 we will begin to set detailed animal welfare collaborative partnerships and dialogue with standards for every stage. RESOURCE AND ENERGY INDEPENDENCE Responsible sourcing | More sustainable products | More sustainable operations 33 MORE SUSTAINABLE PRODUCTS At IKEA, the way we think about designing and n Q  uality – high quality and long-lasting AFFORDABLE PRODUCTS ARE OFTEN CONSIDERED LOWER QUALITY, AND SOMETIMES THE making products is called Democratic Design. products that weather the wear and tear of MOST BEAUTIFUL DESIGNS ARE THE MOST EXPENSIVE. WE WANT TO CHANGE THAT. It is based on the five principles below – all everyday life equally important to making the right product. n S ustainability – products made in ways n F  orm – products that make our customers that are good for people and the planet, feel good while making the world a more and which can enable people to live more beautiful place sustainable lives at home PEOPLE & PLANET STATUS PERFORMANCE IN FY16 n F unction – products that work well and n L  ow price – products that are affordable POSITIVE TARGETS make everyday life easier and more and accessible to the many people. meaningful By August 2020, 90% of the total sales On track – 55% in FY16 value will come from home furnishing products classified as more sustainable. By August 2015, all our home furnishing Approximately 98% materials, including packaging, will be either made from renewable, recyclable1 or recycled materials. By August 2020, 100% of material in our Ongoing – 24% in FY16 plastic products will be renewable and/or recycled, representing around 40% of our total plastic use. Encourage and enable our direct suppliers Ongoing – 19% in FY16 to become 20% more energy efficient by August 2017, compared to FY12. By August 2015, reduce carbon emissions of By FY16, suppliers reduced relative our suppliers by 20%, compared to FY12. carbon emissions by 17.3% LEGEND: Achieved Ongoing Not achieved 1 On an industrial scale in at least one market where we have retail operations. RESOURCE AND ENERGY INDEPENDENCE Responsible sourcing | More sustainable products | More sustainable operations 34 SUSTAINABILITY Some of our favourite product examples. Every year, our designers create wonderful products, POLYSTYRENE-FREE PRODUCT guided by the five pillars of Democratic Design. Here are some of the highlights of products launched during FY16 that made our range more sustainable. FLAT PACKS SCORECARD Expanded polystyrene (EPS) foam has LUNGÖRT and LÖVKOJA EKTORP This classic traditionally been used extensively for These popular cushion covers IKEA sofa has removable are made with 100% cotton covers that can be packaging, because it is cheap, durable and from more sustainable sources. machine washed, or lightweight. But it is fossil-based, and hard We use the Sustainability Product Scorecard to Combining a low price with great even replaced once to recycle in many places. We set out to find measure how sustainable our products are, and form and good quality, they excel they get old. Customers a replacement, and after a lot of research, to see how well we are moving towards that in all five aspects of Democratic can enjoy a whole new Design. It’s no wonder our look and feel to their we succeeded! component of Democratic Design. Since FY10, we have been using the scorecard’s 11 criteria customers love them! sofa, without having to The new material is honeycomb-shaped and replace the whole thing – to measure sustainability at every stage of our saving precious cash and acts as a natural shock absorber. Because of products’ life cycle – see below. natural resources. the holes between the hexagons, it is light, yet strong; and it is made from fibre-based materials and therefore fully recyclable. THE IKEA SUSTAINABILITY After four years’ work, we have now phased PRODUCT SCORECARD out EPS foam from all IKEA flat packs,2 reducing EPS foam volumes by 8,000 tonnes VALLENTUNA This sofa is 1 More from less (using lightweight per year – more than half the volume of the  completely modular, allowing materials and smart designs that customers the flexibility to buy Empire State Building! require fewer resources) the seats, armrests, backrests, and cushions separately. They 2 Renewable materials can repurpose it based on their evolving needs as they move 3 Reused and recycled materials home, change lifestyle, or just 2 E  PS is still present in the packaging for our appliances. Since we purchase these directly from suppliers, and have a fairly small impact in this want a new style! area, it has been more of a challenge to affect this industry. But we will 4 Materials from more sustainable continue to work with suppliers to explore a more sustainable solution.  sources 5 Recyclability at products’ end  A product is classified as ‘more sustainable’ if Approximately 98% of our home furnishing relevant for the future, we have been updating the of life it scores points above a certain threshold, and materials, including packaging, are made from criteria and tools in FY16, and will create new ways 6 Quality products are only approved for production if they renewable, recyclable or recycled materials. of working with it in FY17. score higher than existing, equivalent products. Measuring progress towards this target has We worked closely with product development 7 Transport efficiency If the design scores poorly, we will find ways to proved challenging, therefore we provide our best teams to understand their needs, and how to improve – for example, by choosing different estimate. Due to regional legislation and specific 8 Energy use in production improve the usability and effectiveness of the materials or working with different suppliers. requirements for some materials, we may never scorecard. After tweaking the focus areas, the 9 Renewable energy in production Product development teams should then set out an reach the 100% target. The new Sustainability new scorecard will include nine criteria organised action plan to increase the score within one year. Product Scorecard will measure product around design, material and supply. In FY17 we 10 Raw-material utilisation in sustainability in a different way and will help us  will affirm the definitions and scope for each production more accurately track progress (see left). 55 criterion, and support teams through competence11 Sustainable life at home (products % OF TOTAL SALES VALUE CAME FROM HOME FURNISHING developing programmes and an easy-to-use IT  PRODUCTS CLASSIFIED AS Updating the scorecard system. Because we collaborated with the people that enable customers to reduce 'MORE SUSTAINABLE' IN FY16 energy and water use, cut waste, and who actually use the scorecard, we are confident We are proud of the Sustainability Product live a healthier lifestyle) it will now be scaled up and integrated across the Our goal is for 90% of our total sales to come from Scorecard and have learnt a lot in the six years business to drive more sustainable product design. products classified as ‘more sustainable’ by FY20. we’ve been using it. To make sure it remains RESOURCE AND ENERGY INDEPENDENCE Responsible sourcing | More sustainable products | More sustainable operations 35 THE IKEA QUALITY HEMNES product illustrating the use of FOR LIFE STRATEGY powder coating instead of wet-painting that gives the product In FY15, we launched our updated, more protection in countries where high customer-focused approach to quality: levels of humidity the Quality for Life strategy. It has three are a problem. strategic pillars that serve as a promise to our customers: n  ong-lasting value at low prices – L using our home furnishing knowledge and customer insights to create the best quality, value for money products QUALITY FOR n Quality in every touch point – ensuring that every time we connect with CUSTOMERS customers, we leave a lasting quality impression VALJE, REGISSÖR n Q  uality through transparency – TINGBY and LISABO listening to our customers and sharing use new innovative Quality has always been part of our vision to our stories together to understand what wedge dowel fixings create a better life for the many people. It is not that come pre-installed matters most to them. in furniture panels and only about following the principles of Democratic replace more traditional Design to provide affordable, well-designed, longmetal fittings. lasting and durable products. We must also ensure that whenever and wherever our customers choose to meet with us, they have a positive we can be proud of. For more on the requirements In FY17, we will define new targets that measure they move. That means making furniture that is experience. This includes a customer’s interaction for IKEA suppliers, see page 61. the impact of quality on customer happiness and easy to assemble and disassemble. In 2012, we with IKEA – whether online or in store – and the sustainability (especially waste reduction). We introduced an innovation that replaces traditional packaging of products, which should protect, In FY15, we launched our updated, customerhave already identified and started around 60 metal fittings with a small ribbed fitting called a inform and engage without being wasteful. For focused approach to quality: the Quality for Life activities across IKEA Group that will improve wedge dowel. The dowels come pre-installed in more on how we engage and inform customers, strategy. It has three strategic pillars that serve as quality for customers. For example, as IKEA the furniture panels and simply click into place, see page 19. a promise to our customers (see box). expands globally we know that more of our requiring fewer tools and shorter assembly time. We work closely with our suppliers to ensure we The first pillar considers products, where we customers are living in humid climates, which Recently we have installed the wedge dowel to live up to our customers’ quality expectations identified three focus areas for FY16-17: can cause damage to furniture such as bending, many more products, including our VALJE and and legal requirements. The IKEA Supplier cracking or mould. We have updated several REGISSÖR wall cabinets, and TINGBY and LISABO n M  aking sure customers are happy, healthy and Quality Standard, based on the ISO 9001 criteria, products to be more resistant to humidity, like our tables, and will continue to roll out in FY17. safe by complying to the right quality standards ensures that our suppliers meet internationally HEMNES bathroom series that uses a new painting around the world Instead of throwing away damaged products, agreed quality principles. For example, we made technique (powder coating instead of wet-painting) C  reating quality products that are right from we actively encourage and support people to significant progress with one of our suppliers of n that makes it much more water-resistant. More the beginning and exceeding customers’ repair them, or replace missing components. We taps. At the end of FY13 we realised there was a furniture with better humidity resistance will be expectations by choosing sustainable and longhave a policy of offering customers spare and problem with some of our taps, when more than available to customers from mid-2017. lasting materials, and building quality into the replacement parts and in FY16, IKEA Components 75 products were returned every day because of design Today, people are moving around a lot more and dispatched 1.3 million repair kits to customers, quality issues such as leaking. We took immediate living in smaller spaces. We want to make it easier 155,000 more than in FY15. action, halting all sales of these taps, and worked n U  sing customer feedback and supplier for customers to take products with them when with the supplier to create a quality product that knowledge to continually improve our products. RESOURCE AND ENERGY INDEPENDENCE Responsible sourcing | More sustainable products | More sustainable operations 36 PRODUCT SAFETY Product safety is a top priority at IKEA. We want did not comply with the performance requirements Chemicals our customers’ homes to be as safe as possible, with the voluntary ASTM industry standard. For Chemical substances are useful in many IKEA THE IKEA CHEMICAL and they should always feel confident that our a full list of the recalls that took place in your products are safe and healthy to use. We use risk market in FY16, visit your IKEA country website. products, providing beautiful colours, giving STRATEGY texture to materials, acting as glue to keep our assessments during the product development Tragically, we are aware that tip-over accidents products together, and protecting products with process to make sure we live up to our customer In FY16 we updated our chemical strategy to happen with IKEA furniture involved, often as a paint and other coatings. Most chemicals are promise as well as all regulatory requirements. reflect changing demands and new evidence consequence of the furniture not being properly safe to use, but some pose health risks. At IKEA, about the hazards of some chemicals. We We test products at our own accredited laboratory anchored to the wall. That’s why IKEA launched we have a responsibility to ensure the chemicals have five objectives, with associated KPIs, in Sweden, as well as at independent research its ‘Secure it!’ campaign globally in FY16. IKEA in our products are safe, and that products are to ensure that we create safe and healthy institutions around the world. When needed, we is investing in communication to help raise produced in a way that protects co-workers and products. create our own test methods for certain product awareness of the importance of securing chests the environment. types. Our focus is on safety and prevention. of drawers to the wall, and urges consumers n Increased information on chemical content For many of our products we go above and Whenever we are alerted to a possible safety issue to follow all safety and assembly instructions. of our products beyond legal requirements. We have phased out with the design or manufacture of our products, Customers who have misplaced their tip-overAll materials used in IKEA products are any chemicals that are suspected of being n we investigate. If a safety or compliance issue is restraint can order replacements online or pick assessed for chemical safety harmful or causing reactions. For example, confirmed, we take prompt corrective actions. them up for free at any IKEA store. colourants that have been identified as n Phase out substances and materials that One of the tools that we have at our disposal We are investing in innovation, product carcinogenic are banned from use in our products. could cause harm is the voluntary product recall. The IKEA range development and testing solutions to improve the And where we can, we avoid substances and comprises approximately 9,500 products and quality and safety of all our products. For example, n Our suppliers share our values on chemical fragrances that are known to be allergenic. during FY16, we had seven global recalls. It is from 1 January 2016, IKEA window blinds and safety and compliance important to note that not all recalls are global, curtains are cordless (or have non-accessible n Increased awareness among co-workers, some recalls are due to local compliance issues. cords) to minimise risk of strangulation. We have consumers and other key stakeholders For example, in June 2016 we launched a local pledged to share our innovations in safety, free of about our work on chemicals. recall of chests of drawers in North America that charge, with the whole furniture industry. OUR BIGGEST Formaldehyde PVC 3 All brominated Cr-VI in Bisphenol A Cr-VI in Lead in mirror Bisphenol A Mercury in Perand MILESTONES: in wood flame chrome plating in plastic for chromating/ backings (BPA) in light sources polyfluoroalkyl YEARS WHEN coatings retardants 4 children’s anodising polycarbonate (replaced by substances WE PHASED products for food LED) (PFASs) in OUT OR Azodyes releasing (0-7 yrs) contact products textiles BANNED carcinogenic CERTAIN arylamines in CHEMICALS textiles/leather Lead in metal fittings 1993 1996 2000 2005 2006 2008 2010 2012 2015 2016 3,4 E  xcept for electrical articles. RESOURCE AND ENERGY INDEPENDENCE Responsible sourcing | More sustainable products | More sustainable operations 37 SUPPLIER DEVELOPMENT Partnering with our suppliers is essential to Supporting suppliers to improve It is now easier to use, more action-oriented, TIER 1 HOME FURNISHING (HF) SUPPLIER DATA making our products more sustainable. By sustainability includes many learnings from our energy and working closely with suppliers, we ensure water projects, and goes hand in hand with Our aim is to encourage and enable our FY12 efficient organisation that shortens the our Good Examples booklet that offers ideas BASELINE FY14 FY15 FY16 direct suppliers to become 20% more energy distance between supplier and customer. and inspiration for suppliers. Energy efficient by August 2017, and to become The IKEA Purchasing organisation is water positive by August 2020 by promoting The SSI measures suppliers’ performance in Energy consumed responsible for our vision to build a more water stewardship throughout our value four areas. 7,853 6,744 7,727 7,938 (GWh) sustainable supplier base. Sustainability chain (read more on page 30). As well as n S  trategy and management systems Energy efficiency Managers and Sustainability Developers working on specific materials or products, (kWh/m3 product 308.0 250.0 253.9 250.4 implement projects with suppliers – see we work closely with tier 1 home furnishing n S  ourcing and procurement of energy, purchased) the infographic for more detail. In FY16 we and components suppliers to monitor and water, chemicals and materials Renewable energy strengthened our Purchasing organisation to improve their greenhouse gas, energy and n M  anufacturing processes and resource use 24.8 26.6 28.0 31.8 share (%) ensure that we can continue to go beyond water performance. Compared to the FY12 n N  on-utilised resources including waste Greenhouse gas emissions the requirements of our Supplier Code of baseline, suppliers have reduced relative chemicals, materials and water. Conduct, IWAY. We restructured the way carbon emissions by 17.3%, improved Greenhouse gas we work to be organised by Category Area, energy efficiency by 18.7%, and increased emission 2,024,195 1,888,114 2,126,674 2,082,279 enabling a more specialised sustainability water efficiency by 41.6%. (tonnes CO2 eq) focus for each one. Instead of being Greenhouse gas generalists across all categories, we can emission efficiency 79.4 70.0 69.9 65.7 Supplier Sustainability Index now make decisions based on themes that (kg CO2 eq/m3) are common to each area, and collaborate The Supplier Sustainability Index (SSI Water closely with suppliers on projects related helps us measure the impact of our to their material and production methods supplier development. And it feeds into Total water 34,340,809 24,507,975 25,692,285 24,904,176 (see diagram below). the Sustainability Product Scorecard to consumption (m3) create an overall score for each product Water efficiency (see page 35). In FY16 we updated the 1,346 908 844 786 (litres/m3) SSI, following feedback from suppliers. BETTER PURCHASING CATEGORY AREA SUSTAINABILITY MANAGER SUSTAINABILITY DEVELOPERS STRUCTURE Our purchasing work is divided into the Each Category Area has a sustainability Sustainability developers in each Category seven Category Areas: Flatline, Wood & manager that leads the sustainability Area are responsible for supporting Fibres, Comfort, Textiles, Electronics, Metal, development agenda for suppliers and suppliers and business teams to implement Plastic & Float Glass, and Specific Home materials in that Category Area. the Category Area agenda. Furnishing Business. RESOURCE AND ENERGY INDEPENDENCE Responsible sourcing | More sustainable products | More sustainable operations 38 WORKING WITH THE SEVEN IKEA HOME FURNISHING SUPPLIER CATEGORIES FLATLINE The Flatline category aims to source 100% of our solid wood, ELECTRONICS We purchase ready-made electronics products from suppliers for our Products board and paper from more sustainable sources by August Appliances, lighting, bathroom and kitchen appliances range. By collaborating made from 2019. lighting and with suppliers, and sharing best practice with one another, we particleboard and We worked with one of our suppliers to update their approach home electronic ensure the products are manufactured sustainably. fibreboard (MDF, to purchasing and install better systems to monitor materials. products. Projects include efforts to improve energy and water monitoring HDF, hardboard). From zero materials from sustainable sources in FY11, systems, and encourage waste separation and reuse. Together we the supplier now offers more than 80% wood from more also explore ways to improve specific manufacturing processes – for sustainable sources – with full traceability and FSC® Chain of example using a new paint coating process that reduces phosphates, Custody certification. and reducing air emissions and hazardous waste from tin soldering. We aim to use materials more efficiently to make more from WOOD & METAL, We are collaborating with a number of suppliers to transform waste less, and to source 100% of our wood, paper and cardboard FIBRES PLASTIC & plastic into beautiful new products. Through close collaboration from more sustainable sources by August 2020. Products made FLOAT GLASS and a step-by-step approach we were able to set up a new system from hardwood Since FY12, we have been working with our Romania-based Products made for recycled PET production. In FY16, 26% of the raw materials (such as pine supplier, Aviva SRL, to use their innovative new types of from metals, in products from this category came from renewable or recycled and spruce), engineered wood in more of our product ranges. Their solution plastic and sources. For plastics, our goal is to reach 100% from recycled or layer-glued uses up to 60% less material – reducing transport costs and float glass. renewable sources by FY20. This is a challenging target and we are wood, bamboo, emissions. developing roadmaps for the different kinds of plastics that we use, paper and As with other Category Areas, we are supporting all of our in order to bring us closer to our goal. natural fibres. wood and fibre suppliers to phase out coal use in their operations by FY18. COMFORT Traditional mattress foam is made of petroleum-based, nonSPECIFIC Every home can be brightened up with some plants – but it can Mattresses, renewable resources, and we are working to change this. In HOME sometimes be a challenge to grow them in a sustainable and upholstered and FY15 we started using a new mattress foam made of 15% FURNISHING responsible way. Our co-workers responsible for green plants filled products soy-oil. We have now increased this to 30% for some foam BUSINESS products have teamed up with Terramera Inc., a Canadian company types. Small household that is developing a unique plant based technology for pest and One of our suppliers, Dendro Poland, can now chemically items such disease control to replace synthetic chemical pesticides. IKEA recycle foam that is wasted during the manufacturing process. as candles, Greentech, our wholly owned venture capital company, has also This can replace even more petroleum-based raw material ceramics, invested in Terramera. content in our mattresses. Best of all, these two solutions can frames, green be combined to create the most sustainable foam available! plants and toys. TEXTILES Cotton is one of the main raw materials for this category, process. Now Hilong saves nearly 300,000 litres of water can collaborate on projects and develop consistent water Fabrics, home and since the end of FY15, all the cotton we use in our a year, and more suppliers are following suit – with nearly guidelines. During FY16, we continued our work in STWItextiles, products comes from more sustainable sources. But our 50% of the polyester used in the IKEA supply chain now led projects in India (two suppliers, one sub-supplier), furniture covers, journey is far from over! dope dyed. China (one supplier) and Turkey (three suppliers). carpets, blinds, Our Synthetic Textiles Category is working with suppliers Since many of our textiles suppliers are based in waterSee page 30 for how we are becoming water positive curtains and to improve the sustainability of their production scarce regions, we have developed Water Guidelines across our entire supply chain. textile storage techniques. For example, together with our supplier, for Textiles Suppliers that provide a starting point for solutions. Hilong, we recently introduced a fibre dyeing technique, improving water efficiency. We also work with the Sweden called dope dyeing, that reduces water consumption by Textiles Water Initiative (STWI), an organisation that 80% because fewer steps are involved in the dyeing connects textile retailers who share suppliers so that they RESOURCE AND ENERGY INDEPENDENCE Responsible sourcing | More sustainable products | More sustainable operations 39 THE IKEA CATALOGUE The IKEA catalogue showcases our latest product ranges, interspersed with creative home furnishing ideas and tips for living a more sustainable and healthier life. It is the world’s largest FSC certified ENVIRONMENTAL DATA FOR TOTAL CATALOGUE publication, with 213 million copies in FY16. PRODUCTION We focus on sourcing FSC certified paper (rather than recycled paper) in order to assure more FY10 BASELINE FY14 FY15 FY16 sustainable origins of the raw materials. Currently there is not enough high-quality recycled paper Printed number of 197 217 211 213 to meet our needs. catalogues (millions) Volume of paper used 102,476 102,077 100,390 96,934 Reducing the catalogue’s carbon (tonnes) footprint FSC certified Chain of Custody fibre (% of 21 100 100 100 Now that we have secured certified paper, we are virgin fibre content) focused on reducing the carbon footprint of the Renewable energy used catalogue. The first step is to measure the carbon in production (% of 50 44 32.25 42 footprint at each stage of the catalogue’s life cycle, total energy) from forest to mailbox – quite a challenge with ISO 14001 certified seven paper suppliers and 23 printers across 89 100 100 935 paper suppliers (%) 19 countries! In FY16, we cut carbon emissions from catalogue production by 26%, and water consumption by ENVIRONMENTAL DATA PER PRINTED COPY 35%, compared to FY15, by selecting suppliers with lower environmental footprints. FY10 BASELINE FY14 FY15 FY16 Energy consumption The digital catalogue (kWh/copy) 2.96 2.78 2.54 2.64 There were 49 million visits to the digital versions Carbon emissions from of the catalogue – app and website – in FY16. We catalogue production, 0.49 0.76 0.74 0.55 have now established a baseline measurement for from forest to paper mill (kg CO2/copy) the environmental impact of the digital catalogue. This is much more complex than for the printed Water consumption – – 1.28 0.83 version, because we need to account for making, (litres/copy)6 using and disposing of the devices, running the data server centres and using the internet. We 5 T his number decreased because we began working with a new supplier in North America that is not yet certified to ISO 14001 standards. are exploring partnerships with leading companies 6 T he difference between water withdrawn and water discharged. in the digital sector and hope to learn from their experiences. RESOURCE AND ENERGY INDEPENDENCE Responsible sourcing | More sustainable products | More sustainable operations 40 MORE SUSTAINABLE OPERATIONS At the end of FY16 there were 340 We want all of these to be sustainable. MAKING OUR OPERATIONS MORE SUSTAINABLE IS GOOD FOR PEOPLE AND THE PLANET, IKEA stores, 41 shopping centres, 38 This means reducing carbon emissions, AND MAKES GOOD BUSINESS SENSE. distribution sites, 22 Pick-up and Order using water efficiently, and being smarter Points and 41 factories operated by IKEA with our waste. Group around the world. PEOPLE & PLANET STATUS PERFORMANCE IN FY16 POSITIVE TARGETS By August 2015, reduce carbon emissions from our own Very close to reaching our FY15 target – we reached operations by 50%.1 49% in FY16.2 By August 2020, produce as much renewable energy as We produced renewable energy equivalent to 71% INTEGRATING IKEA CENTRES IN REPORTING we consume in our operations.3 of that consumed.4 For the first year, this report includes landlord and tenant consumption in data and information on IKEA Centres, the future. Become 30% more energy efficient in our own Retail – 15.5%, Distribution centres – 28.6%, the IKEA Group shopping centre n C  arbon emissions data includes operations by August 2020.5 IKEA Industry (Divisions Flatline and Solid Wood) – organisation formed in FY15. IKEA emissions from all energy purchased 14%, IKEA Industry (Division Board) – 1.4%, Centres is active in 15 countries, with IKEA Components6 – 48.3%.7 by IKEA Centres, including energy more than 3 million m2 of floor area used by tenants with sub-meters, and approximately 425 million visitors a By August 2016, reduce carbon emissions from the 28.7%. We achieved the 20% goal last year and are which is reported as scope 3. year. IKEA Centres owns and operates transport of goods by 20% compared to FY11, and by now close to reaching our 30% target. W  ater and waste data includes 30% compared to FY12 by August 2020.8 the shopping centres, leasing units to n other retailers (tenants). water and waste collection services purchased by IKEA Centres and By August 2020, 90% of the waste from our own 88.7% overall. For material recycling, we achieved: In this report: provided to tenants, common areas operations will be recycled or energy recovered. Of this, Retail – 80.3%, Distribution centres – 81.7%, IKEA 80% of the waste from stores and distribution centres Industry – 80.5%. n E  nergy data for shopping centres and shared services. and 90% from IKEA Industry will be material recycled. focuses on our own operations, including energy purchased by IKEA Some of the data in this chapter is Centres for: presented in two ways – including By August 2020, reduce waste from our store operations Not on track – in FY16 we produced 16.5% more by 10%.9 than the FY13 baseline. and excluding shopping centres. This – c  ommon areas such as malls and is because IKEA Centres was not part toilets, and shared services such as of the IKEA Group when our targets central heating and cooling. were set. The data excluding shopping LEGEND: Achieved Ongoing Not achieved – t enants that do not have energy centres shows figures comparable sub-meters and whose energy use to previous years. For transparency, 1 C ompared to FY10 in relative terms, measured by CO2/m³ goods purchased. 5 C ompared to FY10 in relative terms. 2 E xcluding shopping centres. 6 Baseline year: FY13 cannot be separated from the total. we also provide the figures including 3 ‘Our operations’ currently relates to distribution centres, stores, offices and IKEA 7 N ot including shopping centres, which were not part of our operations in the base year, We are rolling out sub-metering shopping centres. From FY17, we will Industry Group factories. We will update our target for renewable energy production FY10. during FY17 to reflect our new company structure. 8 C ompared in relative terms and measured by m³ transported goods. across our shopping centres to fully integrate shopping centres in all 4 E xcluding shopping centres. With shopping centres we produced 61%. 9 B aseline year: 12.5 kg/m³ in FY13. This is measured as kg/m³ sold goods. be able to separately measure our targets and reporting. RESOURCE AND ENERGY INDEPENDENCE Responsible sourcing | More sustainable products | More sustainable operations 41 CARBON CARBON EFFICIENCY FOR SCOPE 1 AND 2 EMISSIONS SCOPE 1 AND 2 EMISSIONS FROM IKEA BUILDINGS (TONNES CO2) EMISSIONS FY10 FY14 FY15 FY16 (EXCLUDING IKEA CENTRES) FY16 (INCLUDING IKEA CENTRES) Retail FY14 333,576 FY15 338,720 FY16 294,950 Kg CO2 per m3 Distribution centres 28,251 29,883 28,025 34.3 27.5 24.4 17.5 32.8 product sold Shopping centres – – 296,92316 We are going all-in to tackle climate change by investing in renewable energy IKEA Industry 422,851 358,444 198,900 and energy efficiency. We are in the IKEA CARBON FOOTPRINT IN FY16 (TONNES CO2) IKEA Components 1,095 1,178 1,741 process of setting a new science based Offices 3,481 3,346 9,357 (TOTAL 39,992,548) target to ensure that we play our role in Other units – – 1,519 cutting our emissions to the level required Total 789,593 731,571 831,41617 to keep global warming below the 2OC threshold. To learn more about how we are inspiring action on climate change, 209,484 CARBON EFFICIENCY (% IMPROVEMENT AGAINST FY10 BASELINES) 39,161,131 621,932 see page 13. FY14 FY15 FY16 FY20 GOAL Tracking our emissions enables us to Scope 1 Retail 37.8 39.6 48.0 50 monitor progress towards our goal to Scope 2  Distribution centres 51.2 54.1 58.2 50 decarbonise our operations. This includes: Scope 3 IKEA Industry Group Divisions n m  easuring absolute emissions from our 18.3 30.9 71.0 50 Flatline and Solid Wood entire operations to understand our IKEA Industry Group Division overall environmental footprint 3.0 18.7 36.4 50 Board18 IKEA CARBON FOOTPRINT AT EACH STAGE OF OUR VALUE CHAIN n m  easuring relative emissions per (TONNES CO2)10 IKEA Components (Base year 7.8 33.8 35.8 50 FY13) product sold, to show how efficiently FY16 SEE PAGE Total 19.8 28.9 49.019 50 our business is manufacturing and Raw materials 16,562,759 24 delivering products to customers. Production and distribution 3,142,796 In FY16, carbon emissions from our own IKEA GROUP LOCATION/MARKET BASED EMISSIONS FROM CONSUMED Suppliers (home furnishing and catalogue) 2,199,035 38 ELECTRICITY IN FY1620 operations, excluding IKEA Centres, were Goods transport11 943,761 46 17.5 kg CO2 per m3 of product sold. This Consumed electricity (MWh) 3,008,893 IKEA Group operations 1,020,366 is 49% lower than in FY10 which means Scope 1 and 2 from IKEA operations 831,416 41 Location based emissions (tonnes CO2) 1,266,578 that we are now very close to reaching Business travel12 52,368 48 Market based emissions (tonnes CO2) 578,551 our FY15 target of reducing emissions by 50%. Including IKEA Centres, the figure Co-worker commuting 136,582 48 Footprint reduction from using electricity from renewable sources (%) 54.3 was 32.8 kg CO2 per m3 of product sold, Shopping centre tenants13 172,373 10 Some data based on models and estimations. See page 89. areas, shared services and tenants without sub-metering. since our shopping centres generate Customers 18,162,615 11 G lobal ocean and land transport, excludes customer 17 E  xcluding shopping centres total scope 1 and 2 emissions carbon emissions without selling IKEA Transportation to stores 3,480,107 48 deliveries. are 534,493 tonnes CO2. 12 I ncludes air travel, rental cars, public transport and taxis for 18 I n FY15 we reported against an FY11 baseline. Historical products. Product use (light sources and appliances) 14,682,507 16 business travel. figures have therefore been restated. 13 S cope 3 emissions related to energy obtained by IKEA 19 Excluding shopping centres. Products’ end-of-life14 931,639 34 Centres and (sub)metered exclusively to tenants. 20 L ocation based emissions and market based emissions 14 Includes operational waste emissions. reported as per Greenhouse gas protocol definitions (see Total 39,992,548 15 15 E xcluding shopping centres, carbon emissions are more on page 89). The footprint reduction represents 39,695,625. the CO2 reduction achieved by choosing electricity from renewable sources instead of the general market electricity 16 E missions related to landlord-obtained energy for common mix in the countries where we operate. RESOURCE AND ENERGY INDEPENDENCE Responsible sourcing | More sustainable products | More sustainable operations 42 RENEWABLE ENERGY GOING ALL-IN FOR RENEWABLE ENERGY We aim to be a leader in renewable energy, producing as much energy as we consume by 2020. Since 2009 we have invested EUR 1.5 billion in purchasing our own wind and solar power generation equipment and in COMMITTED TO OWN INSTALLED 730,000 GENERATED HEAT GENERATED FY15 we committed a further EUR 600 million. AND OPERATE 327 SOLAR PANELS ON FROM RENEWABLE ELECTRICITY THROUGH WIND TURBINES OUR BUILDINGS SOURCES BIOMASS 71 % GENERATED RENEWABLE ENERGY EQUIVALENT TO 71% OF ENERGY CONSUMPTION IN FY1621 3,209 GWH GENERATED FROM During FY16 we produced 3,209 GWh of RENEWABLE SOURCES IN FY16 renewable energy from wind, solar and biomass. That is 33% more than in FY15, partly thanks to our large new wind farms in Poland and the US becoming fully operational. In FY16 we committed to buy 13 new wind turbines in EQUIVALENT TO 71% Finland, bringing the total to 327, and installed OF ENERGY USED IN OUR OPERATIONS17 85,000 solar panels, bringing the total to Renewable 730,000. energy generation 23 1,810 2,412 3,209 In FY16, we produced renewable energy (GWh) equivalent to 71% of our energy consumption, FY14 FY15 FY16 excluding IKEA Centres, compared to 53% in FY15. Including shopping centres, the share RENEWABLE ENERGY PRODUCED BY TYPE (GWh) is 61%, as shopping centres have low renewable energy generation in relation to FY14 FY15 FY16 their energy consumption. Wind 410 985 1,789 We have committed to produce as much Solar PV 90 109 127 renewable energy as all of the energy we Biomass for electricity 23 consume in our operations by 2020. There % of total electricty consumption 16.2 33.3 77.322 have been two major changes to the structure Heat from renewable sources (biomass heat, of IKEA Group, that impact the scope of both 1,310 1,319 1,271 solar water heating, geothermal) energy generation and energy consumption. % of total heat energy consumption 42.0 53.4 63.123 We incorporated IKEA Centres into our reporting scope for the first time. At the end of FY16, we Total (GWh) 1,810 2,412 3,209 divested Range & Supply and IKEA Industry, % of total energy consumption 42 53.4 71.024 which will be reflected in the FY17 data. We 22 E  xcluding shopping centres. With shopping centres, renewable generation is equivalent to 64.5% of our total electricity consumption. will update our target for renewable energy 23 Excluding shopping centres. With shopping centres, renewable generation is equivalent to 55.4% of our total heat energy consumption. 24 E  xcluding shopping centres. With shopping centres, renewable generation is equivalent to 60.5% of our total energy consumption. 21 E  xcludes shopping centres. RESOURCE AND ENERGY INDEPENDENCE Responsible sourcing | More sustainable products | More sustainable operations 43 production during FY17, to reflect our new company structure. We maintain our high ambitions for energy generation and will continue to invest in renewable energy across our operations. RENEWABLE ENERGY (PURCHASED ELECTRICITY AND DISTRICT HEATING, AND ON-SITE GENERATION) AS % OF TOTAL CONSUMPTION As well as generating our own renewable energy, IKEA sites purchase renewable energy directly FY14 FY15 FY16 from the grid, or through district heating. This Retail 53.7 51.4 66.5 is one of the major contributors to reducing Distribution centres 55.1 55.2 64.8 our reported emissions. In FY16, 61.0% of IKEA Industry – Furniture 55.6 68.6 86.3 the electricity we purchased from the grid was renewable. Using biomass for heat is another IKEA Industry – Boards 69.2 70.3 73.3 important way of reducing emissions. IKEA IKEA Components 41.8 38.3 48.8 Industry uses large amounts of heat during Total 59.8 61.9 73.125 production, and in FY16, 78.8% of its heat energy was generated by biomass. For more information on our partnerships IKEA RENEWABLE ENERGY INVESTMENTS IN WIND POWER to encourage renewable energy uptake, see page 86. COUNTRY TURBINES CAPACITY (MW) France 29 48.1 The challenge of energy storage Germany 23 45.1 Sweden 46 132.2 Our sites do not operate 24 hours a day, and some of the renewable energy is produced at Denmark 1 0.9 times it cannot be used onsite. Until now, finding UK and Ireland 11 20.3 a way to store renewable energy has been Poland 80 179.9 difficult. Storage would enable us to smooth out the difference between supply and demand and Canada 20 46.0 provide flexibility to the grid. USA 104 263.0 In FY16 we began a pilot project in Australia Finland26 13 42.4 and Sweden, exploring how to use lithium-ion 25 E  xcluding shopping centres. Renewable energy makes up 7.4% of total consumption at shopping centres. With shopping batteries to store surplus electricity from solar centres, renewable generation is equivalent to 63.4% of our total consumption. panels. In the long term, we hope to be able to 26 Committed in FY16, but not operational. reuse lithium-ion batteries from our forklift trucks and other vehicles (see page 47). Even if they are no longer fit for vehicles, the batteries have the capability to store some energy. We hope to roll out this pilot in FY17. We are exploring the possibility of powering LED fixtures using direct current from batteries, instead of alternating current from mains electricity. This could reduce fixture costs and further increase energy efficiency for LED WATCH THE VIDEO lighting. Read more about LEDs on page 16. RESOURCE AND ENERGY INDEPENDENCE Responsible sourcing | More sustainable products | More sustainable operations 44 EFFICIENT BUILDINGS INNOVATIONS TO BE MORE EFFICIENT IMPACT REACH SMART Using clever software, we can regulate building We launched this technology at IKEA Hubhult, BUILDING systems such as ventilation, lighting, power our office and meeting place in Malmö, MANAGEMENT and security systems. Managing these systems Sweden, and some stores in Sweden. Our SYSTEMS holistically means we can find efficiencies and ambition is to extend this software to many cut costs – for example, the software might more countries. ‘learn’ when is the best time to cool or heat the building based on when lighting systems are in use. LED Stores using LED lighting can expect to use By the end of FY16, 232 existing stores had LIGHTING 15 to 25% less electricity each year, with been retrofitted with LED lighting (or started consumed energy savings around 1.4 GWh/ retrofits). We will roll this out to another 64 store/year. stores during FY17 and FY18. POWER We are installing equipment to convert energy During FY16 we installed PQO equipment at QUALITY from the grid to a more suitable quality and 15 stores. Installations are now underway in OPTIMISATION quantity for the equipment using it. This Austria, Belgium, Canada, Italy, Poland and (PQO) reduces energy consumption, protects the Switzerland. We will continue to install these equipment from power surges, and reduces units at another 35 stores during FY17. An illustration of our new IKEA More Sustainable energy bills and replacement costs. PQO can Store in Kaarst, Germany, currently under reduce energy use by more than 5%, and construction and due to open in summer 2017. payback time is less than five years. Making use of abundant natural light and environmentally friendly technologies, it will also FUEL CELLS These cells convert fuel (natural gas and During FY17 we will run pilots at five sites in feature green areas for play and a dedicated biogas) to electricity through a chemical the US, using fuel cells to store energy and transportation concept. reaction instead of using a traditional generate electricity. This is estimated to save combustion engine. This is much more efficient 104,000 MWh and over 1.3 million USD every and can contribute to lower carbon emissions. year. Longer-term, we are exploring whether We want to run all IKEA buildings – whether must collect monthly data from each site and feed we could use hydrogen fuel cells to capture and store energy from wind turbines (see page 44). stores, shopping centres, offices, factories or this through to the Group-level Energy and Water distribution centres – as efficiently as possible Performance Year Cycle. to reduce carbon emissions and cut costs. Close KITCHEN Energy-efficient kitchen ventilation systems can Efficient ventilation systems have now been To help Europe meet its 2020 energy efficiency VENTILATION save 177 MWh per store or EUR 9,000 per year, installed in 115 kitchens, an increase of 15 collaboration and regular communication between targets, the EU Energy Efficiency Directive with a payback of less than two years. compared to FY15. During FY17 we plan to our global, country and site-level teams allows us install another 10 systems across Germany and requires large companies to audit their energy to learn from each other and set ambitious goals. Switzerland. consumption and identify ways to reduce it. We Our Energy, Emissions and Water management audited all our European stores and distribution guidelines lay out the steps that our sustainability centres in FY16, and plan to consolidate results USING We are exploring new partnerships with IKEA Industry is working on a pilot project, BIO-WASTE companies that produce small-scale generators due to be fully launched in FY17, which will use teams in each market can take to set countryand share findings between countries. Beginning FOR ENERGY powered with bio-waste. waste wood from the production process to level efficiency targets. Together with facilities in FY17, we will extend similar audits to non-EU provide green energy for heating, cooling and managers and logistics teams, IKEA site managers countries, starting with Canada. electricity. translate these targets into action plans. They RESOURCE AND ENERGY INDEPENDENCE Responsible sourcing | More sustainable products | More sustainable operations 45 HUBHULT – our global meeting centre in Malmö, Sweden, is Scandinavia's most environmentally friendly PRODUCT TRANSPORT office building, certified to BREEAM ‘Outstanding’. Millions of people around the world have than FY11, meaning we have far exceeded an IKEA product in their home. Each our 20% reduction by FY16 target. Read on product has been on a journey – sometimes for some of the ways we have achieved this thousands of kilometres – from supplier, to reduction. Our ongoing target is to achieve distribution centre, to store, before reaching a 30% reduction by FY20, compared to an its new home. We strive to make product FY12 baseline. transport more efficient to cut costs, reduce journey times, and minimise our Alternative modes of transport environmental footprint. We always look for new ways to reduce and replace fossil fuels in product transport. 56.5m 3 OF TRANSPORTED GOODS PER Currently the highest proportion of our SHIPMENT IN FY16 carbon emissions comes from motor transport (50% in FY16). The rest is made Packing more products into each truck or up of rail and ocean transport – we do not container is one of the simplest and most transport any of our products by air. effective ways of making transport more efficient. And as pioneers of flat pack It can take a long time to reduce the furniture, this is central to the way that impact of ocean transport because the we design products. In FY16, the average ships are so long-lived – some can be used volume of goods per shipment increased by for 20 to 30 years before they need to be Sustainable store project 0.71% to 56.5m3. This has been a global replaced. But new vessels entering the IMPROVEMENT IN ENERGY EFFICIENCY COMPARED TO market have significantly lower emissions, effort, needing collaboration between The IKEA Energy Model is a simulation tool that FY10 (%)27 product developers, packaging makers, and total emissions for our sea freight are helps our building designers make each new store FY20 suppliers and distributors. The biggest decreasing. Slow steaming – where ships more sustainable than the last. In FY16 we used FY14 FY15 FY16 GOAL increase in FY16 comes from our internal travel below their maximum speed to the tool to find efficiencies and cost savings in Distribution Services, where volume per save fuel and increase efficiency – and our 17 newly built stores, and will soon be rolling Retail 15.1 14.6 15.5 30 shipment increased by 1.2% from FY15 to renovating existing engines, also contribute this out in some IKEA Centres too. Although initial 58.1m3 between distribution centres and to lowering emissions. We are partnering construction costs can be higher, these are soon Distribution centres 25 26.8 28.6 30 stores. with other industry members through the recovered through lower running costs. Clean Cargo Working Group to find new IKEA Industry Divisions Thanks to our work to improve transport We are going beyond this, using external 17.9 12.6 14.0 30 ways of reducing emissions from the global Flatline and Solid Wood efficiency we have avoided over 98,000 standards for building efficiency. From FY16 we shipping industry. shipments since FY13. will require all new IKEA Group properties and IKEA Industry Division –1.6 4.7 1.4 30 Being flexible with modes of transport helps large redevelopments to achieve a ‘very good’ Board cut emissions. For example, our distribution performance rating from the Building Research centre in Piacenza, Italy, sends products to 29 % LOWER Establishment Environmental Assessment Method IKEA Components28 25.9 48.0 48.3 30 CARBON EMISSIONS PER M OF TRANSPORTED GOODS 3 other European destinations by rail, sea, or (BREEAM) scheme. IKEA Hubhult, our office COMPARED TO FY11 uses trucks with alternative fuels, depending and meeting place in Malmö, Sweden, was our 27 I KEA Centres are excluded because this is the first year they are included in the scope of the data, therefore it is impossible to calculate percentage improvement. on the destination and transport types first building – and the first one in Scandinavia In FY16, total carbon emissions from product 28 Baseline year: 2012. available. In FY16, IKEA Italy made 19,000 – to achieve the highest BREEAM certification, transport were 944 thousand tonnes. fewer truck journeys than the previous year. ‘Outstanding’. Relative to goods sold, this is 28.7% lower RESOURCE AND ENERGY INDEPENDENCE Responsible sourcing | More sustainable products | More sustainable operations 46 Using alternatives to fossil fuels such heavy-duty vehicles while minimising as biogas and electricity can reduce a carbon emissions. journey’s carbon emissions by up to 90%. n L  ithium ion forklifts: From PRODUCT TRANSPORT EFFICIENCY (GOODS PER SHIPMENT) In FY16, we worked on exciting projects in September 2016, new forklift trucks our markets: at IKEA stores in Europe and Asia FY14 FY15 FY16 Pacific will be powered by lithiumn V  egetable oil-powered trucks: Net cubic metres of transported goods per shipment 55.4 56.1 56.5 ion batteries. This technology is 30% In Sweden, two of our main transport more efficient than traditional leadservice providers are now using Increase in cubic metres of product per shipment – 1.3 0.71 acid batteries, and will be the standard compared with the previous year (%) hydrogenated vegetable oil (HVO) to option for all new equipment in fuel their trucks. More than 30,000 these regions. shipments each year will now use this oil, which is left over from European n H  ydrogen fuel cells: Our distribution PRODUCT TRANSPORT EFFICIENCY (CARBON IMPACT) meat production, local restaurants centre in Lyon, France, was the FY20 and households. HVO costs around first logistic centre in Europe to FY14 FY15 FY16 GOAL the same as diesel and is available use hydrogen fuel cells to power its in 70 service stations in Sweden. forklifts. Traditional cells take up to five CO2 per cubic metre of products transported 32.7 28.2 26.6 – Compared to diesel shipments, we hours to charge, while hydrogen fuel expect to see annual savings of cells can be completely filled in just a Reduction in CO2 per cubic metre of products 12.3 24.4 28.7 30 around 9,800 tonnes of CO2. few minutes. And if the hydrogen is transported compared with FY11 (%)29 produced using renewable energy, the Our distribution centres in Älmhult trucks can run with zero emissions. and Torsvik, in Sweden, are also using HVO-powered vehicles for internal SHARE OF CO2 EMISSIONS FROM OCEAN AND LAND TRANSPORT (THOUSAND TONNES CO2) haulage. In FY16, 13 trucks used this Partnering with the fuel and reduced carbon emissions by transportation industry 570 tonnes. We were a founding member of Green n D  iesel-hybrid vans: IKEA Altona Freight Asia (GFA), an industry-led NGO in Hamburg, Germany, is using that aims to lower carbon emissions and diesel-hybrid vans to make customer shipping costs in the supply chain. In deliveries. These vehicles are powered FY16 we qualified for the newly released 403.2 540.6 473.8 66.8 with a combination of traditional GFA level 2 ‘green leaf’, which recognises Ocean combustion and electric motors, with companies’ commitment to adopting Land lower emissions than normal vans. In green freight practices. 2015, more than 3,000 orders were Motor In Europe, we are working with NGO delivered using these vans. Intermodal and rail Transport and Environment, and several It is not just about product distribution of the biggest European retailers, to lobby and delivery to customers. The way we the EU to adopt stronger fuel efficiency 29 Historical numbers were revised and figures were updated accordingly. power the vehicles we use in stores and standards for trucks. distribution centres can also contribute to Truck drivers often face challenges reducing our environmental footprint. regarding working conditions and fair n E  lectric shunting trucks: Our Tejon pay, particularly when there are high Distribution Centre in the US has socioeconomic variations between the partnered with TransPower to introduce region they come from and the countries electric shunting trucks, which use the where they actually work. See how we are latest battery technology to propel addressing this on page 66. RESOURCE AND ENERGY INDEPENDENCE Responsible sourcing | More sustainable products | More sustainable operations 47 TRAVEL Not just products have to get to and from our available at all of our regular stores, so that PHOTO: NAF (NORWEIGAN AUTOMOBILE FEDEERATION) VIRTUAL MEETINGS AND ALTERNATIVES TO TRAVEL buildings – but people too! We provide more customers do not have to travel by car. sustainable travel options for customers and FY14 FY15 FY16 co-workers wherever possible, and encourage Co-worker commuting their use by making them more accessible Number of web and phone meetings 235,121 303,933 432,424 and convenient. An easier, healthier commute makes our coworkers happier when they arrive at work, and can be better for the planet too. Some of Hours of video meetings 19,081 16,219 14,613 Customer travel the highlights from FY16 are listed below. IKEA stores and shopping centres around the IKEA sites with the video meeting n  ur distribution centres in Peterborough O facilities 134 146 171 world had more than 1,145 million visits in and Doncaster, in the UK, have installed FY16. Although most of our sites are outside on-site bike shelters, introduced town centres, more than 90% of them are personalised travel planning for RELATIVE COSTS OF TRAVEL accessible by public transport. In Croatia and more virtual meetings, avoiding travel where employees, and host a ‘Sustainable Travel Romania we are investigating opportunities possible, and otherwise choosing sustainable Week’. Peterborough also promotes car FY14 FY15 FY16 for customers to travel to stores using hybrid transport and hotels. sharing, and is launching a co-worker buses. In the UK, we are working with Travel costs as a percentage commuter bus, earning the distribution 0.39 0.41 0.42 Sustrans, a charity aiming to make travel The IKEA Meeting and Travel strategy of yearly sales (%) centre a place in the top three finalists outlines how we will achieve sustainable by foot, bike or public transport easier. Cofor Best Workplace Travel Plan in the business travel by FY20. This includes workers at IKEA Bristol are working with Sustainable Travel Awards 2016. working on cost, efficiency and quality of Sustrans to improve a walking and cycle route to and from the store involving the n I KEA Centres China encouraged comeetings and travel; health, safety and local community and schools. workers to use green transport to honour security; and sustainability. World Car-Free Day in September 2015. In FY16, we launched a new solution for We now offer free electric vehicle charging stations at 186 of our stores in 23 markets. n W  e want to make commuting better virtual meetings. After conducting 350 Some of our markets, such as Canada, for the many people, not just IKEA training sessions around the world, we are offer these charging points at all stores co-workers. In FY16 we worked with well on track with our goal for annual growth nationwide. The IKEA Centre in Beijing, several partners to carry out Norway’s in the number of virtual meetings to exceed China, has committed to installing more than largest traffic experiment. To help tackle that of trips by FY18. The number of web and 150 charging points for electric vehicles, congestion, IKEA Furuset and IKEA phone meetings increased by 40% between with plans to roll these out across additional Slependen offered their parking lots as FY15 and FY16. This is far greater than the Chinese shopping centres. In European commuter parking for the citizens of Oslo. growth in the number of trips taken – which We also made the IKEA bus available for increased by 24% in the same period.30 “In FY16 we ran two ‘virtual large meetings’ in the US, Centres we have more than 30 chargers. Even with the current technology available, with more than 2,000 participants in total. They were commuters. We want to make it easier for our customers physical meetings do have advantages. We a huge success – it saved travel time for co-workers, to get to our stores, wherever they live. We reduced emissions from travel, and helped create a continue to look for new ways to tackle this. now have 22 smaller units, known as ‘Pick-up Meetings and business travel sense of ‘togetherness’ for the project. Virtual meetings Travel costs as a percentage of yearly sales and Order Points’, which bring our offer closer are possible in 42 US stores today, and we plan to roll Co-worker meetings are a vital part of life at rose from 0.41% to 0.42% but we are on to customers and cut their travel. Customers out to nearly 100 stores by 2025. This is the future IKEA. Our meetings should be as productive track to meet our goal of 0.35% by FY20. for IKEA!” can order products to pick up or for home and creative as possible, with space for all to LARS PETERSSON delivery (often by low-emission vehicles – contribute. Of course, we want our meetings 30 P  art of this increase is due to more accurate data collection. For Country Retail Manager, IKEA Retail USA see page 46). A home delivery service is also to be sustainable too – which means using example, the FY16 data includes figures for Russia, which were previously excluded. RESOURCE AND ENERGY INDEPENDENCE Responsible sourcing | More sustainable products | More sustainable operations 48 WATER Just like any home, IKEA sites use of the business, and create water As well as improving water efficiency water for heating, plumbing and cooling. Many of our manufacturing stewardship road maps and action plans. We created a risk map to in our own operations, the Water Working Group is working on GOOD EXAMPLES FOR WATER SAVING processes also require water. In FY16, analyse which of our facilities are in ambitious projects to tackle water risk we used around 10.6 million m3 of areas with high water risk, and will use across our supply chain. Read more on DIVISION SOLID WOOD needs a lot of water in buildings owned and operated this to identify priority areas. page 30. water to keep logs wet during manufacture. by IKEA Group. Instead of fresh tap water, we are now using Some best practice examples already rainwater and recycled water. shared by the group include: Water efficiency for IKEA Becoming water positive n r ainwater harvesting Industry Co-workers from across our operations The IKEA Industry Water Manual n m ovement sensors on taps and have for a long time been working to includes detailed information on urinals make our business water positive – different types of waste water and from the raw materials we source (see n a erators on taps and showerheads, how to treat them. The manual page 29), and the suppliers we work saving up to 50% of water contains a Water Positive Matrix, with (see page 38), to the way we n g rease separators in kitchens to highlighting the specific actions sites manage our operations. ensure that waste food oil does not can take to improve their water contaminate water drainage management and governance by We have made slow progress towards 2020. See box (right) for examples our target to improve water efficiency n w aste water treatment plant filters of how IKEA Industry divisions are in stores by 20% by FY17, and we to ensure water goes back to the putting the manual into practice. know we need to scale up our efforts sewer completely clean on water. In FY16, for the first time, n d ouble release toilet flushing tanks we brought teams from across our operations to form the Water Working n s trong communication to customers DIVISION FLATLINE collects clean water Group. The group has been working and co-workers about water-saving from its roofs and sends it, without any to share learnings from different parts solutions. contaminants, to local wetlands where it recharges precious groundwater. WATER USE BY IKEA UNIT (M3) FY14 FY15 FY16 Retail 4,853,478 4,945,101 5,178,449 Distribution centres 197,953 179,981 196,922 Shopping centres31 – – 3,795,355 IKEA Industry 2,468,498 1,494,951 1,480,355 IKEA Components 4,711 8,011 13,658 DIVISION BOARD has started to Other units 275,843 treat and reuse water in its major water consuming processes. Total 6,524,640 6,669,504 10,568,53432 31 W  ater consumption for shopping centres cover common areas and tenants. 32 F  Y16 total water consumption is significantly higher than FY15, due to the inclusion of IKEA Centres and other units. RESOURCE AND ENERGY INDEPENDENCE Responsible sourcing | More sustainable products | More sustainable operations 49 WASTE DISPOSAL RATES IN FY16 (% OF TOTAL) INCINERATED INCINERATED WITHOUT FOR ENERGY SENT TO ENERGY RECYCLED RECOVERY LANDFILL RECOVERY Retail 80.3 11.3 7.9 0.5 Distribution centres 81.7 13.7 4.0 0.6 Shopping centres 14.0 0.0 86.0 0.0 IKEA Industry 80.5 13.2 6.3 0.0 IKEA Components 96.4 2.8 0.8 0.0 WASTE Total (average) 77.6 11.1 10.8 0.5 WASTE RECYCLING RATES (% OF TOTAL WASTE RECYCLED OR We are moving away from the concept from country Retail and Distribution INCINERATED FOR ENERGY RECOVERY) of ‘waste’. We know that most materials Services organisations. As part of this, FY14 FY15 FY16 FY20 GOAL that are left over from a process can we are developing a new reporting and be useful for something. Products that management system to track waste. Retail 90 87.6 91.6 90 are no longer wanted can be revitalised This will be launched in FY18, along Distribution centres 92 96.5 95.4 90 or the materials recycled. And when a with new training for co-workers and an Shopping centres – – 14.0 90 material truly has reached the end of its updated Waste Management Handbook. life, it can be used to create energy. We IKEA Industry 77 92 93.7 90 Waste from IKEA stores makes up call this circular thinking – read more more than 77.2% of our total waste. IKEA Components 100 99.7 99.2 90 about how we contribute to a circular We aim to cut this waste, relative to economy on page 23. Total (average) 89 88.9 88.734 90 the volume of sold goods, by 10% We focus on reducing waste from our between FY13 and FY20. This has been own operations, and finding efficient challenging, and in FY16 we reported WASTE PRODUCED (TONNES) ways to recycle what we do produce. In a 16.5% increase compared to the FY16, we generated 560,650 tonnes of FY13 baseline.33 This is because our FY14 FY15 FY16 waste, of which 88.7% was recycled or focus to date has been on increasing Retail 370,040 435,725 432,835 incinerated for energy recovery. the share of waste that is recycled, Distribution centres 39,196 46,710 50,594 rather than decreasing the amount of One of our most successful programmes waste produced. Now, we will ensure IKEA Centres – – 24,347 is the introduction of baling machines. a stronger focus on reducing waste These machines compress waste IKEA Industry 47,983 49,561 49,526 relative to the volume of goods sold, packaging into neat bales, making it and are embedding the target at the IKEA Components 20,495 3,013 3,182 much more efficient to recycle materials country level. Total 477,714 535,009 560,650 and cutting transport impacts by up to 80%. We will introduce more than 150 34 B  ecause IKEA Centres’ share of total waste generated by IKEA Group is only 4%, the impact on Group results is limited. balers across 16 countries by FY19. Our ambition is to steer waste flows towards preferred treatment methods and close the gap between the IKEA Group average and IKEA Centres' performance in this area. We are constantly working to improve the quality of the data we receive 33 Baseline year: 12.5 kg/m3 in FY13. RESOURCE AND ENERGY INDEPENDENCE Responsible sourcing | More sustainable products | More sustainable operations 50 Reducing product damage Tackling food waste BALING MACHINES A significant proportion of our waste comes from Food waste is an important area to address in compress waste products or packaging being damaged during our customer and co-worker restaurants. This packaging into neat bales, making it much transport. By tackling this we can reduce the cost means increasing awareness around food waste, more efficient to of replacing items, and the environmental impact improving forecast accuracy in prepared food transport and recycle. of remanufacturing and redelivering products. volumes and revising portion sizes. We do this by working with product and packaging By 2020, we aim to halve food waste and 90% designers, encouraging co-workers to detect early of it should be recycled or turned into a resource signs of damage or potential risks, and improving such as compost or biogas. global reporting. This has reduced the cost of We are starting to roll out a solution in our product damage by 15% between FY08 and FY16. restaurant kitchens to help our food teams We now spend EUR 180 million less on fixing measure food waste volumes and identify ways to damages during product handling (that occur in cut it. The roll out is staggered for our 48 markets distribution centres, in-store or during product over the next two years. delivery). In FY16, we launched an initiative at our stores Managing waste at IKEA Industry and fulfilment units, called Handle with Care, to ensure that every product is well packaged and The IKEA Industry Waste Manual provides detailed arrives at its destination in perfect condition. instructions on how to manage, handle, store There are now dedicated co-workers at each store and prevent waste. This is particularly important to monitor every delivery and detect, correct and for hazardous waste where health and safety report damaged goods. This allows us to spot can be affected. IKEA Industry uses a number of any damaged products before they go on the chemicals in our manufacturing processes and it is shelf, investigate the cause of the damage and important to dispose of them properly. We make prevent it happening again. To avoid damage sure that all relevant co-workers are trained on to the products when at the store, and for the the best ways to work with chemicals in a variety safety of our co-workers and customers, we have of situations. introduced standard operational procedures for the safe handling of products. Recovery Direction was launched in FY14 to give products that do get damaged a second chance by repackaging, repairing or selling them at discounted prices. Since launching this project, we have installed repackaging machines in 250 stores worldwide, and more than 80% of distribution centres. In FY16 we repackaged 29% of products that were damaged in store or returned by customers. Approximately 60% of the remaining products unable to be repacked were given a second chance through sales at discounted prices. RECOVERY DIRECTION gives products that As part of the Democratic Design approach, we get damaged a second always aim to improve quality for the customer chance by repackaging, – less damage and better solutions to repair or repairing or selling them at discounted prices. repackage damaged products – see page 36 for more information. RESOURCE AND ENERGY INDEPENDENCE Responsible sourcing | More sustainable products | More sustainable operations 51 A BETTER LIFE FOR PEOPLE AND COMMUNITIES People are at the heart of everything we protect and support the rights of everyone we do: the suppliers who make our products, come into contact with. our customers, co-workers and the communities around us. This means taking action to enhance the lives of our co-workers and people who work Our vision is to create a better everyday life for in our supply chain. It includes speaking up the many people. Whoever and wherever they about what we believe in, and partnering with are, everyone shares the same fundamental others to enable lasting positive change in human rights. We have a responsibility to communities close to home and further afield. A BETTER LIFE FOR PEOPLE & COMMUNITIES Better lives for our co-workers | Better lives for workers in our supply chain | Respecting and supporting human rights | Lasting changes for communities | The IKEA Foundation 52 CELEBRATING We became a member of the Workplace Pride Foundation – In FY16, we joined with others around the world to celebrate From January 2016, Simona Scarpaleggia (CEO, IKEA Switzerland) DIFFERENCE, WORKING an organisation that strives for greater acceptance of LGBT+ (lesbian, gay, IDAHOT (International Day Against Homophobia, Biphobia and Transphobia) took the lead as co-chair of the first ever United Nations High-Level Panel on FOR EQUALITY AND bisexual, transgender, and all other sexual orientations and gender identities) people and take a stand on discrimination against the LGBT+ community. To Women’s Economic Empowerment. The Panel will provide thought leadership and INCLUSION in the workplace and in society. coincide with this, our IKEA Group Diversity & Inclusion Network members galvanise the political will to scale up actions that support women’s economic “We want all our created a short video, in which the main empowerment. Additionally, the Panel co-workers to be able WE ARE ALL UNIQUE. message: “Be Yourself! Your uniqueness will support and provide guidance on to be themselves at makes IKEA better” was repeated in implementation of the 2030 Agenda for At IKEA Group, we believe equality should be about recognising work. We want them and our customers nearly 20 different languages. Below are Sustainable Development (SDGs) to everyone’s right to be treated fairly, celebrating our differences, to know that some of many comments we received improve economic outcomes for women, encouraging people to be themselves, and treating everybody we respect and from co-workers in response. and promote women’s leadership in driving with the same level of respect – regardless of who they are. Only support the LGBT+ sustainable, inclusive and environmentally then can we work towards a truly inclusive workplace and society. “I grew up in a time where we had to community. Working sensitive economic growth. Read more We do not always get things right the first time, and we with Workplace hide and I had to defend who I was on page 87. constantly draw on the experiences and knowledge of our coPride and other LGBT-focused every day. So stoked to see this, and workers, partners and suppliers to try to be the most inclusive organisations will help us as we be a part of a company that is not only strive to reach greater acceptance accepting but supportive! Thank you!” company that we can. and inclusion of LGBT+ people in “This is why IKEA is IKEA!” our workplaces.” ANTONIO CAVALLI “I am so proud to work for a company Diversity and Inclusion Specialist, IKEA Group that truly cares about diversity!” Vaishali Misra – Initiative We launched the new IKEA Gender Leader, Next Generation Social Equality Plan, to create a truly genderEntrepreneurs, IKEA of Sweden balanced organisation. – spoke about the role of business in accelerating women’s empowerment “We believe gender equality goes in global supply chains at the BSR beyond the numbers. Once both Women Deliver conference in May men and women are represented 2016. She outlined how the IKEA Social equally in all levels of leadership Entrepreneurs programme is enabling and in all functions, we can focus social change in some of the world’s on creating a truly inclusive Our suppliers often take the initiative culture where we acknowledge poorest communities by empowering women through work. Read more about to promote inclusion in their our differences and our unique our work with social entrepreneurs on communities. For example, one of our contributions and use them to page 74. rug suppliers in South Asia has focused benefit our business.” on empowering local women to work SARI BRODY outside their homes. The supplier raised Diversity and Inclusion Manager, its female workforce to 25%, compared The IKEA Group IKEA Group delegation to with a 3-5% local average, and worked the Workplace with community leaders to foster a shared Pride International commitment to women’s employment. LGBT Conference, July 2016. Read more on page 60. A BETTER LIFE FOR PEOPLE & COMMUNITIES Better lives for our co-workers | Better lives for workers in our supply chain | Respecting and supporting human rights | Lasting changes for communities | The IKEA Foundation 53 BETTER LIVES FOR OUR CO-WORKERS CO-WORKERS PER REGION IN FY16 WE WANT IKEA GROUP TO BE THE BEST PLACE TO WORK FOR EVERYONE – WHOEVER THEY ARE AND WHEREVER THEY COME FROM. (THOUSANDS) AND WE KNOW THAT PEOPLE DO THEIR BEST WORK WHEN THEY FEEL VALUED, HEALTHY AND ABLE TO BE THEMSELVES. 12.2 Each of our 163,600 co-workers is 16.2 unique, and every one brings new PEOPLE & PLANET STATUS PERFORMANCE IN FY16 perspectives and ideas. Whatever 114.1 POSITIVE TARGETS their aspirations and however long 21.1 Europe their journey with us, they all make an important contribution – from North America Following the IKEA Group Diversity & The Supervisory Board of INGKA Holding B.V. (the parent Inclusion Approach (see page 56), every company of the IKEA Group) includes three women (43%) at designing our products to giving a Asia  and IKEA unit has defined actions to ensure a the end of FY16, the same as in FY15. Group Management friendly welcome at our stores. Australia diverse co-worker population. Our goal is includes three women (33%), unchanged compared to FY15.1 Russia to reach gender balance in key leadership Extended Group Management2 consists of 43% women, positions and to reflect the diverse compared with 44% in FY15. 48% of all managers are women, Our co-workers in FY16 nationalities of our market. the same as in FY15. At the end of FY16, 54% of our co-workers were women (56% in CO-WORKER FULL-TIME / PART-TIME PEOPLE STRATEGY STATUS PERFORMANCE IN FY16 SHARES AND TURNOVER (%) FY15) and women occupied 48% 2020 TARGETS of all management positions FY154 FY16 (48% in FY15). Part time Ensure every co-worker has an agreed, 76%3 of our co-workers have an individual development plan, In FY16, our total co-worker individual development plan. which includes regular meetings with their managers to review 20 hours or less a week 17.0 13.4 their career aspirations. turnover was 18% (20% in FY15). The majority of our co-workers 20-34 hours per week 36.0 31.1 By FY20 50% of managers will be women. 48% of managers are women. (56%) worked 34 hours or more per week (47% in FY15). Of the 34 hours or more per week 47.0 55.5 remainder, 31% worked between 20 and 34 hours per week (37% in Turnover (all co-workers) 19.8 18.4 By FY20 achieve a Leadership Index result Achieved a Leadership Index result of 75 in our VOICE survey. FY15) and 13% worked 20 hours or of 75 in our VOICE survey. less per week (16% in FY15). GENDER DIVERSITY (% of women5) By FY20 achieve an index of 725 in our Achieved an index of 741 in our VOICE survey. VOICE survey. FY20 FY14 FY15 FY16 GOAL All co-workers 1 This number has changed for FY17 due to new management structure. LEGEND: Achieved Ongoing Not achieved 54.0 55.5 54.4 – 2 T  he Extended Group Management list represents our 250 most senior management positions in IKEA. All managers 3 O  f the 74,523 co-workers who completed the VOICE survey and answered positively to: “Have you within the past twelve months together with your manager agreed on a development plan for the coming year?” 47.0 48.3 48.4 50 4 I n FY15, we changed our definitions of part time and full time workers. Data from FY15 onwards represents these revised categories. 5 Data representing 85% of IKEA headcount. A BETTER LIFE FOR PEOPLE & COMMUNITIES Better lives for our co-workers | Better lives for workers in our supply chain | Respecting and supporting human rights | Lasting changes for communities | The IKEA Foundation 54 A VOICE FOR EVERY CO-WORKER VOICE RESULTS OUR VALUES SAYING THANK YOU FY20 FY14 FY15 FY16 GOAL Our humanistic values and culture guide everything A big part of our culture is to recognise VOICE index we do (read more on IKEA.com). And we expect the hard work and commitment of our 704 725 741 725 everyone who works with us to share them: co-workers, and to say thank you. Part Leadership index results of the way we do this is through our two n H  umbleness and willpower. programmes for IKEA Group co-workers: 73 75 75 75 L  eadership by example. n Tack! and One IKEA Bonus. n D  aring to be different. Tack! – ‘thank you’ in Swedish – is In FY16, 74,523 co-workers completed the our loyalty programme. It provides an n T  ogetherness and enthusiasm. VOICE survey.6 Our overall VOICE index was additional contribution to co-worker 741. A result of 700 or more for the VOICE n C  ost-consciousness. pension funds to show our appreciation for index is classified as excellent by the company n C  onstant desire for renewal. their commitment to IKEA and their role in that conducts the survey, and suggests the our success. Regardless of position, salary organisation is “well equipped to generate n A  ccept and delegate responsibility. or unit, all eligible full-time co-workers8 business value”. Our VOICE leadership index n S  implicity. within a country receive the same amount. was 75. Read more here. In December 2015 we n S  triving to meet reality. The survey also provides us with insight into added EUR 105 million to the programme. n C  onstantly being “on the way”. our co-workers’ views on IKEA sustainability One IKEA Bonus is our performance-driven performance. In FY16: bonus system. It promotes togetherness n 7  8% of co-workers agree with the statement, by rewarding co-workers for achieving “within my department, sustainability is a shared objectives within their unit. natural part of the everyday work” Attracting, motivating and keeping our n 8  3% of co-workers agree with the statement, people requires more than salary and “I am proud of the way that IKEA works with benefits alone. In FY16, we introduced the To learn and improve, we need to understand sustainability” new IKEA Group Employment Standards what our co-workers think of us. We encourage – a global approach to improving the n 8  0% of co-workers agree with the statement open conversations between co-workers and their everyday experience of our co-workers. “I feel responsible for minimising the negative managers (see page 59) and seek more formal It addresses everything from employment impact on the environment in my daily job”. feedback through our online survey for all corelationships and contracts to working Read more about how we engage co-workers in hours and scheduling. workers – VOICE. “One of the big values that I relate to more sustainable living on page 20. Read more about is cost-consciousness. It doesn’t mean The VOICE survey covers three areas: the our approach to making cheap furniture. It means making individual, the organisation and leadership. Each responsible wage furniture that will last and that is good for business unit participates at least once every practices on 6 T  he results of VOICE are not directly comparable between years as different your home. We are inclusive and we want two years, and we run the survey via an external parts of IKEA and different numbers of people participate. everyone to have a better life.” page 69. 7 M  ost of the quotes in this section are collected from a co-worker journeys organisation to ensure confidentiality. We look survey carried out in Älmhult, Sweden in FY16. Co-workers from different backgrounds and work areas were interviewed about their experience working at the findings alongside customer feedback and with IKEA. HECTOR BIANCHI financial data, to gain valuable insight into our 8 T  ack! applies to all full-time co-workers who have been with IKEA for five years Project Controller, IKEA of Sweden7 or more. performance and identify improvements. A BETTER LIFE FOR PEOPLE & COMMUNITIES Better lives for our co-workers | Better lives for workers in our supply chain | Respecting and supporting human rights | Lasting changes for communities | The IKEA Foundation 55 DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION our commitment to equality for all people involved impact on society. This includes people who have and women. It aims to create a truly gender in and affected by our business. We also updated been forced to leave their homes and build a new equal organisation across all countries and The IKEA Group Guidelines on Human Rights in life in another country. In FY16, we clarified our regions, despite differing national laws. Our longCommunications based on the revised Policy. position on refugees in the workplace, based on term plan is to carry out regular follow ups to These guidelines aim to ensure our commitment to our inclusion model. measure progress. human rights is clear in everything we say, and n V alues driven culture: demonstrate inclusion The IKEA Women Open Network (IWON) has we will communicate them during FY17 and FY18. of refugees in our daily behaviours in the held six meetings between FY14-16 to create same way we include all other members of our awareness and knowledge about gender equality. Diversity & Inclusion training communities By equipping co-workers with the right knowledge, n D iversity competence: understand and celebrate LGBT+ capability and motivation, we can create a differences in values, expectations, beliefs and Everyone has the right to be treated fairly, workplace where everyone feels welcomed, practices regardless of their sexual orientation or gender respected, supported and appreciated. Our new n E motional Intelligence: increase our awareness, identity. We support our LGBT+ (lesbian, gay, Diversity & Inclusion programmes include separate consider our personal biases and take actions to bisexual, transgender and all other sexual workshops for managers and co-workers, six minimise them orientations and gender identities) co-workers’ We believe that people should have access to interactive modules for all co-workers to raise right to be themselves. the same opportunities and treatment regardless awareness of diversity and inclusion, and a specific n I nclusive systems and practices: consider of their age, gender identity, sexual orientation, module on unconscious bias (read more below) refugees in the same way we consider all other In line with our Diversity & Inclusion Approach, we physical ability, ethnicity, race, nationality, religion as part of the IKEA Leadership Fundamentals job applicants and give them a fair chance at are developing an LGBT+ inclusion plan. It aims to or any other dimension of their identity. programme. recruitment. create a fully inclusive work environment and to contribute to a positive change for LGBT+ inclusion Simply bringing people together does not By the end of FY17, all IKEA Group managers and Find out more about how we are working with in all areas of our business and in society. necessarily mean they will work well together. co-workers will have been given the opportunity refugees in our local communities on page 78. We strive to give every co-worker the knowledge to attend Diversity & Inclusion training. In FY16, we: and skills they need to build and maintain an Gender equality The unconscious bias training module examines inclusive workplace. Everyone at IKEA Group n W  e became a member of the Workplace Pride the positive and negative stereotypes and Our wished position is for gender equality in all shares a responsibility to welcome diversity, Foundation – an organisation that strives for prejudices that people can form about others levels of leadership, in all functions and in all celebrate our differences and create an inclusive greater acceptance of LGBT+ people in the without always being aware that they are doing IKEA organisations. Equality is a human right work environment. workplace and in society so. These biases can impact how we think, feel, and everyone has the right to be treated fairly The IKEA Diversity & Inclusion Approach follows and behave. At work, these biases can cause and provided with equal opportunities. It is also n W  e celebrated the IDAHOT (International Day a six-step model that guides us to take practical people to hire or promote the wrong candidates, a business necessity – mixed teams bring better Against Homophobia, Biphobia and Transphobia) steps towards a more inclusive workplace. invest in less innovative ideas, or lose employees profitability and creative solutions. Our focus is on – read more on page 53 and customers who feel excluded. The training creating equality beyond the numbers, where both Our message is simple: we want every co-worker n  e advocated for human rights and equality – W module offers practical strategies to leaders and women and men feel included and appreciated for to be themselves, because their uniqueness makes IKEA US joined nearly 200 other companies in co-workers, so that they can recognise and reduce their unique contributions. IKEA better. signing an open letter from the Human Rights their own biases. In FY16, we launched the IKEA Group Gender Campaign repealing North Carolina’s anti-LGBT Equality Plan. It introduces a structured way of law that discriminated against the rights of Strengthening our message An inclusive environment for refugees working with gender equality, based on our sixtransgender people. In FY16 we refocused our diversity and inclusion We want IKEA to be an inclusive workplace. By step Diversity & Inclusion Approach. This is a message by launching the revised IKEA Group providing equal opportunities to people from global approach that can be customised to local Policy on Human Rights and Equality. The Policy different backgrounds we can make a positive needs – including issues such as equal pay for men defines our standpoint on human rights, including A BETTER LIFE FOR PEOPLE & COMMUNITIES Better lives for our co-workers | Better lives for workers in our supply chain | Respecting and supporting human rights | Lasting changes for communities | The IKEA Foundation 56 LEARNING AND CO-WORKER JOURNEYS DEVELOPMENT Just as each of our co-workers is an important part of our journey, we are also part of theirs. Here are some of their stories. “I like leading people “I love being on the shop floor as “I started three years ago as a and helping them grow. a team leader. It’s challenging summer job. From that I was It’s what I wanted to do and very fast-moving. You are offered a permanent contract. most, but it’s also the a greeter, a cashier and always They taught me about the most challenging. I try helping with so many questions. production line in more detail and hard to create the right You learn so much when you are now I run one of the big presses. circumstances for a team leader. That’s a lot of responsibility. co-workers to do a I like how we treat each other. It’s a big company, so you have good job.” We all see each other as equals a lot of opportunities. Even if – even the manager. I like the you start as an operator, you can SOUZAN MEANA Team Manager, IKEA Business way IKEA hires people from all expand and try different things. Solutions different cultures. They give Managers are not above us. They everybody opportunities to work treat us as equals. That’s a new here.” experience for me.” JACKLINE KIBUNJA SAMUEL BLOM Team Leader, Customer Relations, Operator and Safety Champion, IKEA Every co-worker should be able to Talent Focus Week in April 2016. IKEA Malmö store Industry Hultsfred, Sweden develop their potential to its full All organisations in IKEA Group extent and be rewarded based on held unique and inspirational events their merit and performance. We and activities to highlight the key believe in people, and we want to message: ‘every person is seen as “When I started as a centre make sure our co-workers are all a talent’. manager I had to learn a given the same opportunity to fulfil Across the week we emphasised lot more about building their aspirations – whoever they two points: making the most of relationships and working are and whatever their ambitions together with the tenants. development talks and plans, and may be. It’s fun to create something growing and developing in IKEA. This In FY16 we trained 150 team was supported with the launch of with them that inspires facilitators to support teams in our new online tool, IKEA Journeys, customers to visit us. realising their full creative and which helps co-workers understand It’s my responsibility to make productive potential. They use how to grow and develop in the values come alive in our our new IKEA Team Development IKEA. Co-workers can find out more work. Because if you don’t do Guide and train teams to use the about the different organisations, that as a leader it will only be guide in their own daily work. Team work areas and roles within IKEA, words on the wall.” development is integrated into and the many opportunities are the IKEA Leadership Fundamental highlighted through inspirational coMARIA RANEHAMN ANDERSSON Centre Manager Programme for new leaders and is worker stories describing their career Kungens Kurva Shoppingcenter, used throughout IKEA Group. path and ongoing development. Stockholm Our launch of the IKEA Group Talent At the end of FY16, IKEA Journeys Approach continued with our first had received 12,220 visitors. A BETTER LIFE FOR PEOPLE & COMMUNITIES Better lives for our co-workers | Better lives for workers in our supply chain | Respecting and supporting human rights | Lasting changes for communities | The IKEA Foundation 57 HEALTH AND SAFETY A safe and healthy working environment is reporting remains a strong focus for IKEA Industry. essential. It enables our co-workers to do their Co-workers are encouraged to report unsafe “I am delighted to see the best work, to enjoy each day, and to thrive. conditions or situations to prevent accidents. changes in the attitude of We encourage co-workers to take a shared workers towards safety There were no fatalities on-site among IKEA coresponsibility for the wellbeing of each other and and health every year. workers in FY16. our customers, so that they feel able to speak up Occupational safety has and act if there is something we could improve. We have made good progress in how we work become an issue which is with health and safety in FY16. relevant to everyone.” Wellbeing is not only about staying safe during the working day. It is about our co-workers’ health, n S  ecCheck process. Our updated SecCheck LIUDAS SUBAČIUS the food they share together during their breaks process provides IKEA units (including stores, Production coordinator and safety (read more on page 24) and their ability to enjoy a distribution centres and shopping centres) with champion at IKEA Industry Lithuania IKEA STORES AND SUPPLY OCCUPATIONAL decent standard of living outside work (read more an annual review of health, safety and security ACCIDENTS on page 69). compliance. We have rolled out the new process Number of accidents requiring three days or more to all IKEA Group stores and will do the same absenteeism9 In FY16, there were 153 occupational accidents with distribution centres and shopping centres at our distribution centres (151 in FY15). There FY14 FY15 FY16 in FY17. were 1,003 occupational accidents at our stores, Stores compared with 1,116 in FY15. This decrease n S  erious threat awareness training. We have occurred despite an increase in overall co-worker updated guidelines for co-workers on preparing, Total number 1,363 1,116 1,003 numbers, and was a result of a continued focus identifying and acting in the case of a serious Supply (Distribution Centres and Customer on safety training and awareness raising across all safety or security threat. In FY17, we plan to Distribution Centres) units – see below. Our co-workers trained in first roll out training on these new guidelines to all Total number 149 151 153 aid have saved the lives of several customers and co-workers. co-workers. n U  pdated safety and security manuals. At IKEA Industry, lost time accidents decreased n I  KEA Industry safety champions. IKEA INDUSTRY OCCUPATIONAL ACCIDENTS from 153 in FY15 to 112 in FY16 – driven by a We continued the training and development of strong focus on co-worker training and behaviour FY14 FY15 FY16 safety champions in all our units, and celebrated change across all units (see right), alongside World Day for Safety and Health at Work for Total number practical changes such as improved machine safety. the eighth year running. Units devised their 1,739 2,360 2,397 There was an increase in total reported own activities depending on local priorities. Lost time accidents occupational accidents at IKEA Industry from 2,360 For example, in Sweden, IKEA Industry in FY15 to 2,397 in FY16. This is a result of a new organised a health and safety fair with other Accidents requiring local companies, including a focus on risk one day or more 159 153 112 policy to report all minor accidents such as cuts absenteeism and scrapes. Often these incidents only require assessment and hazardous tasks. In Lithuania, basic first aid, but we encourage their reporting co-workers focused on the importance of Lost time accident rate since investigating root causes can help us to avoid personal protective equipment. Per million hours more serious accidents. 4.6 4.3 3.3 n I  KEA Industry safety culture training. worked Across all IKEA Industry divisions, internal More than 88% of the 19,850 IKEA Industry auditors from different units visit each other co-workers have been trained in safety culture, 9 R eporting methods vary between IKEA Industry and stores & supply, so we currently report different metrics for occupational accidents. and perform audits. This enables benchmarking led by the 230 safety champions. between factories and provides co-workers with fresh perspectives and mutual support. Incident A BETTER LIFE FOR PEOPLE & COMMUNITIES Better lives for our co-workers | Better lives for workers in our supply chain | Respecting and supporting human rights | Lasting changes for communities | The IKEA Foundation 58 COMMUNICATION WITH CO-WORKERS The diverse and valuable perspectives of our coWe encourage open conversations between coworkers are important to us. They support, inspire, workers and their managers, and we expect every Every co-worker now has their own and challenge us to be a better company. manager to lead by example, by prioritising good e-mail address. quality communication. If a co-worker feels unable We need to know what matters to our co-workers, to discuss a specific matter with their manager or and what their hopes and concerns are. They need with human resources, they can use our trust line to know our expectations and stay up to date with to report concerns – read more on page 85. We new activities or messages. respect the rights of co-workers to form, to join, or We do not expect everyone to have the same style not to join a co-worker association of their choice or preferences for communicating, so we use many without fear of reprisal, interference, intimidation different channels. or harassment. n I KEA Inside and IKEA Inside/Outside (for coworkers without an IKEA computer) is our intranet. It is the main point of contact through which co-workers can stay in touch with the latest news. n R eadme – our quarterly internal magazine – is available online, and we print 66,000 copies in 21 languages for those who prefer a physical version. Readme contains co-worker profiles and content from IKEA Group activities all over the world, so that every co-worker can feel engaged, informed and proud of our achievements. n R egular meetings, newsletters, noticeboards, video screens and training enable co-workers to keep in touch with everyday developments and emerging IKEA stories or messages. n L ocal channels vary between regions, depending on local needs. They include websites such as Yammer – a social media platform that enables co-workers to share ideas and stories. In FY16, we completed the process of ensuring every IKEA co-worker has their own IKEA e-mail “Even though I'm only 21, my address. This is an important milestone, because manager treats me just like it means we can keep in touch directly with every everybody else – when I come co-worker, no matter what their location or role. to them with an idea they take We encourage open conversations It also enables co-workers to access IKEA Inside/ me seriously.” between coOutside and Readme from any device, anywhere.10 JAKOB DACKANDER workers. Bedroom Sales, IKEA Älmhult 10 Except in Germany where co-workers cannot access it from private devices. A BETTER LIFE FOR PEOPLE & COMMUNITIES Better lives for our co-workers | Better lives for workers in our supply chain | Respecting and supporting human rights | Lasting changes for communities | The IKEA Foundation 59 BETTER LIVES FOR WORKERS IN OUR SUPPLY CHAIN Every IKEA product has a story. MILLIONS OF PEOPLE WORK FOR OUR SUPPLIERS AROUND THE WORLD. There are millions of people across WE WANT TO ENSURE THAT ALL OF THEM ARE TREATED FAIRLY AND HAVE our global supply chain – over DECENT WORKING CONDITIONS. 600,000 work for our tier 1 home TOP 5 HOME FURNISHING PURCHASING furnishing suppliers alone. COUNTRIES (% OF TOTAL FY16) They all play an important role in bringing each product to life – sourcing materials, creating 26 components and constructing and PEOPLE & PLANET STATUS PERFORMANCE IN FY16 delivering finished products to our 38 POSITIVE TARGETS stores and shopping centres. China Our vision is to create a better Poland Maintain the social and 97% of home furnishing suppliers, everyday life for the many people. Italy environmental improvements 90% of land transport suppliers3, 18 This includes the lives of people Sweden reached through the 100% IWAY 86% of centrally contracted customer approval1 of all suppliers of delivery service providers, 63% of working in our supply chain. 5 Lithuania 5 Whether they work for our direct 8 home furnishing and other key global food suppliers and 97% of IKEA products and services.2 Components suppliers IWAY approved. Others suppliers (tier 1), or their suppliers (our sub-suppliers), it is our By August 2015, expand the 84% of Indirect Materials and Services responsibility to work together to reach of our supplier Code of suppliers and 87% of retail suppliers support and enhance their rights. READ MORE ABOUT: Conduct, IWAY, by securing IWAY approved. Work to map local approval at local IKEA Food, food suppliers is ongoing. Our supplier relationships are n our  approach to preventing child labour, Indirect Material and Services based on shared values, built on supporting vulnerable groups in our supply and retail suppliers within the chain and ensuring decent work across our scope of IWAY.4 foundations of mutual respect, trust and transparency. The IKEA supply chain on page 68 supplier code of conduct – IWAY – n o ur suppliers’ environmental performance on By August 2017, go further into 99% of critical home furnishing subour supply chain by securing suppliers compliant with IWAY Musts is at the heart of this collaborative page 38 compliance to IWAY Musts5 at all – based on the 218 sub-suppliers approach, and has been for sub-suppliers of critical materials identified as critical. n t he IWAY Forestry Standard on page 27. more than 15 years. It sets out and processes.6 our minimum requirements on environment, social and working LEGEND: Achieved Ongoing Not achieved conditions, ensuring a mutual understanding with our suppliers 1 I WAY approved suppliers are suppliers and service 3 E xcludes ocean transport providers. A new approach to – some of whom we have worked providers: without any open non-compliances; with open IWAY in ocean transportation is currently being developed non-compliances, but within the period of 90 days after the and audits were consequently postponed in FY16. with for several decades. audit date for implementation of corrective actions; that are 4 F or retail operations, the current IWAY focus is on cleaning, new and within the first 12 months from their first delivery home delivery, security and waste management suppliers. IWAY is an important foundation, date; that are approved, but are being phased out due to IKEA Industry also now has a set of phased goals for the reasons other than IWAY – in these cases, if the IWAY audit application of IWAY – see page 67. but our collaboration with suppliers expires during the phase out period, the IWAY approval status can be extended by up to five months. 5 I WAY Musts are the immediate requirements that IKEA is about more than audits and suppliers must meet before a contract can be signed. 2 S uppliers related to Home Furnishing, IKEA Components, Transport & Services, and Global Food. 6 C overs materials and processes which have an increased compliance. By working alongside risk of sustainability concerns associated with the raw material or how it is sourced. For example cotton, leather, our suppliers, we learn about their wood, down & feathers, palm oil, natural fibres and plants. businesses as much as they learn about ours, and we challenge each other to find better solutions. A BETTER LIFE FOR PEOPLE & COMMUNITIES Better lives for our co-workers | Better lives for workers in our supply chain | Respecting and supporting human rights | Lasting changes for communities | The IKEA Foundation 60 IWAY – THE IKEA WAY OUR SUPPLIERS 7 NUMBER CATEGORY DESCRIPTION PHOTO: PER MIKAELSSON OF SUPPLIERS Home furnishing 1,0288 Make our home furnishing products. These were the first suppliers to work with IWAY when we launched it in 2000. Transport and services 250 Transport our products to stores and distribution providers – land and ocean centres by road, rail, river and sea. No airplanes are used in our goods supply chain.9 Transport and services 94 Deliver directly to our customers and provide product providers – customer picking in-store, assembly and installation services. Not delivery and customer all service providers are contracted centrally – see also services Retail service providers below. IKEA catalogue 31 Provide the pulp, paper and print services for our printed catalogue.10 IKEA Food (global suppliers) 88 Provide the food and ingredients for the core range in IKEA Bistros, Restaurants and Swedish Food Markets. IKEA Indirect Material and 371 Provide the products and services needed to run our Services (IKEA IMS) business. This includes equipment in our stores (such as trolleys, racking and lighting), uniforms for our coworkers and services such as facilities management and printing. Working with IWAY n U  N Convention on the Rights of the Child 1989 Retail cleaning, security, 359 Service providers to our retail organisation: cleaning, waste management and security, waste management and customer delivery The IKEA Way on purchasing products, materials n I LO Convention on Occupational Safety and customer delivery service providers centrally contracted through our Transport & and services – IWAY – is our supplier code of Health 1983. providers Services function. conduct and our programme for working with We have many different types of suppliers IKEA Components 381 Provide components and materials to IKEA suppliers suppliers across IKEA. It is a pre-condition for operating in different circumstances. To make the and sub-suppliers that are used in IKEA home doing business with us, and sets out our minimum standard accessible to them all, we: furnishing products.11 requirements on environment, social standards and working conditions. We regularly review and n t ranslate it into 31 languages IKEA Industry 80512 Supplies solid wood, board on frame and board-based update IWAY requirements to reflect current and furniture to IKEA and companies in the IKEA supply n p  rovide supporting documents in the form of chain. emerging issues – it is currently on version 5.1. IWAY Working Methods, to explain how the IWAY work is based on a range of relevant requirements apply to different supplier types or Property facility 18513 Provide services such as cleaning, maintenance and guidance, including: different circumstances management waste management to all IKEA properties. n I LO Declaration 1998 – Fundamental Principles n c  reate supplements to IWAY focusing on and Rights at Work particularly complex or specialised issues – for 7 Includes tier 1 suppliers within the scope of IWAY. 11 Does not include some suppliers delivering to packaging units. 8 Includes IKEA Group’s own production operations. 12 Includes material suppliers and on-site service providers. example the IKEA Way on Preventing Child 9 Except in exceptional circumstances. 13 T  his figure does not include suppliers providing services to n T  he Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact Labour and Supporting Young Workers, and the 10 Does not include digital suppliers. Retail and IKEA IMS, which are listed separately in this table. Framework 2000 Forestry Section of the IWAY Standard. n U  N Universal Declaration of Human Rights 1948 A BETTER LIFE FOR PEOPLE & COMMUNITIES Better lives for our co-workers | Better lives for workers in our supply chain | Respecting and supporting human rights | Lasting changes for communities | The IKEA Foundation 61 Working with new suppliers Challenges of IWAY Suppliers are classified as new for the first Many varied suppliers WHO IS INVOLVED? 16 12 months14 from their first delivery date. Before Different industries vary hugely. We tailor IWAY we sign a contract, we require any new supplier Many people are involved in shaping, working methods accordingly so that IWAY implementing and checking the IWAY process. to comply with a core set of IWAY requirements in requirements can be applied appropriately to areas such as business ethics, child labour, forced different supplier types. and bonded labour, severe environmental and IWAY COUNCIL health and safety issues, minimum wages and Focusing resources Includes IKEA Group President and CEO, Chief Sustainability Officer, accident insurance. We call these IWAY Musts, Corporate Communications Manager, Range & Supply Manager. With such a big supply chain, we have to focus and we work with suppliers to maintain these at Responsible for all principal decisions regarding the IWAY Standard, our resources where they can make the most all times during our relationship. related documents and goals. difference. Our best performing suppliers are Once a contract is signed, we work with suppliers categorised as “IWAY Well Developed”. Following to ensure they implement and uphold all IWAY initial IWAY approval and proof of consistent requirements through a cycle of audits and, performance, they do not receive scheduled IWAY COUNCIL WORKING COMMITTEE COMPLIANCE AND MONITORING GROUP where needed, corrective action plans. IWAY audits but do have unannounced audits Appointed by and supports the IWAY Council with operational Independent from IKEA auditors and questions related to the implementation and interpretation business units. Performs calibration and undertake self-audits. This enables us to of IWAY. Role includes developing the IWAY Standard and audits,17 supports training and Building strong relationships pay closest attention to higher risk countries and supporting material, providing clarity on interpreting the development of IKEA auditors, ensures suppliers that are likely to need more support in IWAY Standard and resolving disagreements on audit results, IKEA co-workers follow IWAY and Good relationships with suppliers form the strong reaching and maintaining IWAY compliance. IKEA reviewing audit results, overseeing auditor training and sustainability compliance to IWAY Council. foundation for a stable, efficient and creative business teams – for example purchasers and approving IWAY Working Methods and documentation. supply chain. Our average supplier relationship is technicians – often discuss specific IWAY topics 11 years. Like any relationship, we take time to with suppliers during their regular visits. get to know each other, to build trust and develop shared expectations and values. Our regional Working with sub-suppliers SUSTAINABILITY COMPLIANCE IKEA SUPPLIERS THIRD-PARTY AUDITORS business units, experienced Sustainability AUDITORS Implement and maintain Drawn from external audit Our suppliers’ own suppliers – our subConduct announced and the IWAY requirements companies that are independent Developers and Auditors are the face of IKEA for suppliers – are a step removed from day-tounannounced IWAY audits of at all units producing for of IKEA. Verify IKEA audit results, all of our tier 1 suppliers. day contact with our teams and are not in a suppliers, review and follow up IKEA and work to secure conduct unannounced and Development and compliance are two sides of the contractual relationship with IKEA. This can action plans in the case of nonMusts at critical subcalibtarion audits,17 report same coin. By working on both, we can support make it challenging to ensure that they share compliance, support suppliers in suppliers. results to Compliance and IWAY implementation. Monitoring Group. our suppliers to achieve good environmental and our approach to important issues such as the social performance that goes far beyond passing environment and human rights. We ask our an audit, and we can work with them to maintain tier 1 suppliers to communicate IWAY Must compliance in between audits. requirements with their own suppliers, and REGIONAL/COUNTRY IKEA BUSINESS UNITS IKEA SUSTAINABILITY DEVELOPERS Accountable for ensuring IWAY is fully implemented Support implementation and understanding of to register them on our sub-supplier tracking Sustainability Developers, across each of our at suppliers under their responsibility, have IWAY at suppliers, carry out initial IWAY system. It is the responsibility of our tier 1 seven categories (see page 39), collaborate regular contact and visits with suppliers to support assessments and schedule future IWAY audits, suppliers to audit their critical sub-suppliers15 understanding and meeting requirements. support and monitor corrective actions, compile with suppliers to find the best way forward on and ensure IWAY Must compliance. We support key performance indicators, train contract owners emerging sustainability concerns or to resolve suppliers throughout this process and work with and purchasers. IWAY compliance issues. Our 98 Sustainability them to address any issues. We are working Compliance Auditors regularly visit suppliers to extend our sub-supplier monitoring and to check on IWAY compliance, but they are far Arrows signify the main lines of contact between the different groups. development to other supplier types beyond our more than box tickers. They each work with home furnishing supply chain. many different types of suppliers and face new challenges every day – learning and sharing as 16 IWAY governance structures will be revised from FY17 onwards. 14 15 months for Transport & Services they go. They bring their knowledge back to IKEA 17 A  udits undertaken by the Compliance and Monitoring Group and third-party companies to verify and assess the 15 S  ub-suppliers are defined as critical if processes performed are considered work done by IWAY auditors and business teams, ensuring a common implementation and judgement level. so that we can continually improve IWAY and to be potentially highly harmful to the environment, health or safety of the workers, or are in an industry or supply setup that is prone to child labour or keep it relevant to all suppliers in every region. forced and bonded labour. A BETTER LIFE FOR PEOPLE & COMMUNITIES Better lives for our co-workers | Better lives for workers in our supply chain | Respecting and supporting human rights | Lasting changes for communities | The IKEA Foundation 62 Staying up to date To maintain consistently high levels of IWAY knowledge and competence among co-workers, we provide training on four levels: basic, medium, advanced step 1 and advanced step 2. Basic training enables any IKEA co-worker to learn about the importance of IWAY, while the advanced training and ongoing competence development is focused towards our Sustainability Developers and Auditors. During FY16, the Compliance and Monitoring Group conducted two reviews of the Sustainability Compliance Auditors Approval working method to ensure their continued competence, one in East Asia and one in the Americas. Protecting migrant workers Some workers in our supply chain have moved away from home to work in another part of their home country, or in another country altogether. We want to make sure IWAY AT IKEA CENTRES that these migrant workers are treated with the same dignity and respect as every Following our recent acquisition of IKEA Centres (read other worker in our supply chain. Complex more on page 41), we produced an action plan to recruitment processes, often outside support the development and implementation our suppliers’ influence, can make this of IWAY in our shopping centre business. This includes challenging. Read more about our efforts to evaluating current IWAY status to secure IWAY approval support and enhance the rights of migrant and sharing experiences with other IKEA organisations. IWAY IN CONSTRUCTION workers on page 72. Suppliers at IKEA Centres include service providers, for example cleaning, guest services, security and technical IMPLEMENTING IWAY ACROSS OUR CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITIES PRESENTS A CHALLENGE. MOST Ensuring a stable, high compliance maintenance. In Russia, the first steps in implementing OF OUR SUPPLIER RELATIONSHIPS SPAN MANY YEARS, WHEREAS CONSTRUCTION PROJECTS TEND rate IWAY started in FY15 and we will be rolling it out across TO INVOLVE SHORT-TERM CONTRACTS WITH MANY DIFFERENT TRADES. THIS SHOULD NOT BE A Audits provide a window on a single all countries in FY17. This includes undertaking regional REASON TO SHY AWAY FROM ENSURING GOOD WORKING CONDITIONS THROUGH IWAY. moment in time. They are an important risk assessments to determine where we should focus indication of overall supplier performance, our attention and resources. We require health and safety to be secured at time. In FY16, an approved third-party auditor but they do not account for fluctuations all times on construction sites, and we carry checked IWAY Must compliance at these sites in compliance with IWAY requirements in out checks using independent third-party and noted improvements. Our Group Property between auditor visits. We are therefore auditors.18 In FY14, we launched a pilot project function has worked to build on learning from shifting our focus towards working with to include IWAY Must verification at all of our this project. As a result, in May 2016 we started suppliers on continuous compliance – construction sites in China. We want to ensure preparing country specific plans to work towards maintaining IWAY requirements at all our suppliers understand and follow IWAY implementation of all IWAY requirements at all times, regardless of where a supplier sits even when they are only on site for a short IKEA Group construction sites. on the audit cycle. Read more on page 64. 18 This includes a mix of unannounced and announced audits. A BETTER LIFE FOR PEOPLE & COMMUNITIES Better lives for our co-workers | Better lives for workers in our supply chain | Respecting and supporting human rights | Lasting changes for communities | The IKEA Foundation 63 PERFORMANCE BY SUPPLIER TYPE Each supplier category presents unique IWAY AUDIT FOR HOME FURNISHING SUPPLIERS challenges and opportunities as we work 1,048 to achieve and maintain IWAY compliance. IWAY AUDITS AT HOME FURNISHING FY14 FY15 FY16 SUPPLIERS IN FY16, OF WHICH We use a range of IWAY working methods 586 WERE UNANNOUNCED. Number of IWAY audits/of which are unannounced and set goals appropriate to each type of supplier, so that we can focus our resources Europe 485/87 448/238 393/156 97 % where they are most relevant and needed. HOME FURNISHING SUPPLIERS Americas 53/8 48/26 56/38 WERE IWAY APPROVED AT In FY16, there were 1,757 IWAY audits THE END OF FY16 Asia 617/501 682/363 599/392 across all supplier categories, of which 724 were unannounced. Below, we Total 1,155/596 1,178/627 1,048/586 summarise IWAY performance for each Number of IKEA compliance and Monitoring Group calibration audits19 supplier type in turn – highlighting specific activities for FY16. Europe 7 4 3 Americas 2 2 0 Home furnishing suppliers In FY16, there were 1,048 IWAY audits at Asia 22 22 21 home furnishing suppliers, of which 586 Total 31 28 24 were unannounced (see table). Number of third-party audits (unannounced) At the end of FY16, 97% of home furnishing suppliers were IWAY approved. Europe 32 63 70 Americas 3 10 2 Achieving continuous compliance Asia 88 83 105 In FY16 we increased our focus on continuous compliance between audits. The Total 123 156 177 result of an audit is important, but it can Terminated businesses, number of suppliers20 n d  eveloping the capability to collect high and plan to use this as a key performance never tell the whole story of the people who quality data from suppliers so that we can indicator in future years. Our Purchasing work every day at our suppliers. We want to Exited due to IWAY 18 12 15 measure and track compliance rates. Operation Areas use this detailed non-compliance know if compliance with IWAY requirements information to help prioritise suppliers and Our Sustainability Developers and Auditors fluctuates between audits, so that we can Number of third-party 305 350 253 specific challenges for IWAY development child labour audits play an important role in this process – work with suppliers to make sure their and maintenance. listening, supporting and challenging our workers are truly valued and supported at suppliers where needed. We aim to achieve 100% compliance all times. IWAY APPROVAL AT HOME FURNISHING SUPPLIERS (%) 21 rate at all home furnishing suppliers, The current compliance rate across all This requires: and will continue our persistent and home furnishing suppliers is 88.7%. We FY14 FY15 FY16 consistent collaboration with suppliers to n c  lose collaboration with suppliers to work are collecting more detailed baseline data IWAY into their management systems Europe 100 100 98 achieve this. to measure ongoing compliance rates, n u  nderstanding the challenges faced by Americas 96 98 98 19 A  udits undertaken by the Compliance and Monitoring Group and we replaced these categories with a single category to aid clarity. This suppliers in different regions, so that Asia (total) 98 98 95 third-party companies to verify and assess the work done by IWAY means figures from FY15 onwards are not directly comparable with Auditors and business teams, ensuring a common implementation and previous years. we can work with them to improve judgmental level. 21 D  ata for home furnishing suppliers includes IKEA Industry factories. Total (all regions) 99 99 97 compliance on specific issues 20 B  efore FY15, terminations were categorised as “due to noncompliance” and “due to non-compliance and other reasons”. In FY15, A BETTER LIFE FOR PEOPLE & COMMUNITIES Better lives for our co-workers | Better lives for workers in our supply chain | Respecting and supporting human rights | Lasting changes for communities | The IKEA Foundation 64 Home furnishing suppliers around South Asia. FY16 has been a year of additional the world learning for our purchasing organisation in South Asia. We focused on competence development Challenges and opportunities. Sometimes and clarifying IWAY standards internally and with suppliers find it difficult to meet specific IWAY our suppliers. This has led to improved supplier requirements – including IWAY Musts – for performance. To share our vision for the future of example because of common industry practices or purchasing in this region, we ran workshops for specific regional challenges. We work with these suppliers and co-workers, as well as launching a suppliers to focus on resolving issues as they new purchasing newsletter. emerge, for example through targeted training and regional programmes. Read more about these Southeast Asia. We faced some specific challenges and how we are addressing challenges in Southeast Asia in FY16, including: them below. n e nsuring transparent and reliable systems for Across the world, many of our suppliers are records of working hours and wages – most of proactive in launching projects to support their the FY16 IWAY Must violations at suppliers in co-workers and local communities. We encourage such initiatives, which range from providing free this region were due to manipulation of data or lack of transparency TRANSFORMING THE HANDMADE RUGS childcare for workers’ children and funding health n improving wage arrangements for home-based INDUSTRY insurance and scholarships for local people, to workers in Indonesia and Vietnam22 sharing product design knowledge with teachers THE CITY OF BHADOHI IN INDIA IS KNOWN FOR ITS BEAUTIFUL HANDMADE RUGS. BUT HERE, and students. See page 72 for more about our n e nsuring contract workers in Indonesia receive GOOD WORKING CONDITIONS ARE FAR FROM GUARANTEED – MANY WEAVERS WORK IN partnership with suppliers in China to reunite permanent rather than temporary contracts COTTAGE INDUSTRIES WITH LIMITED REGULATION AND CHECKS. migrant workers with their children. n e nsuring onsite sub-suppliers are IWAY One of our suppliers saw this as an opportunity our supplier is contributing to a better life for China. In FY15, we reached our goal of ensuring compliant – not only to ensure safe and fair working people in the local area. Many women in the compliance with IWAY working hour requirements n b uilding competence for suppliers to carry out conditions, but also to empower local women region are now able to work independently, at all suppliers in China. But we face ongoing IWAY audits at their own facilities and those of to access skilled work outside their homes. With earning money for their households and challenges to ensure continuous compliance, and their sub-suppliers. our support, the supplier: creating the possibility of a brighter future for have seen an increase in IWAY Must violations their children. To support suppliers in maintaining compliance n t rained 200 people in weaving skills, directly relating to working hours and business ethics. We with IWAY requirements, we completed the IWAY employing 50 This kind of supplier initiative complements our have taken steps to address this, which include: Must violation prevention programme pilot – broader IKEA Handmade Rugs programme, n r aised its female workforce to 25%, n launching the IWAY Independent Approach working with three suppliers to support compliance which aims to improve the rug and carpet compared with a 3-5% local average24 and Supplier Development Club to encourage with IWAY Must requirements. Building on this industry in India and Bangladesh as a whole. suppliers to take ownership over IWAY pilot, we plan to roll out the programme for all n w orked with the local community to Rafael Elizondo, Category Manager, Textile compliance and share learnings with each other suppliers in Southeast Asia during FY17. Focus develop a shared commitment to women’s Carpets says, “Our aim is to keep driving the areas include: effective IWAY communication, employment profound transformation, which started six n t raining suppliers and IKEA business teams to maintain IWAY competence sustaining IWAY performance by worker n c ollaborated with an Indian bank to offer years ago, of an industry that is known for low involvement, and providing a set of guidelines employee bank accounts and an ATM facility or non-existent social welfare, unfair treatment n w orking to stabilise the flow of orders with to create critical processes in systematically – enabling transparency of wage payments and poor remuneration of the weaver’s suppliers in China, which aids financial stability securing IWAY Must requirements. and more independence for female workers. artisanship. IKEA is committed to maintaining and supports IWAY compliance. the gains and further developing the industry Home furnishing sub-suppliers By consolidating infrastructure, raising working In Taiwan, we are working with the government’s towards a fair and transparent setup.” standards and employing more female workers, Direct Hiring Services to encourage responsible In China, we support our suppliers to train and recruitment practices by enabling suppliers to audit critical sub-suppliers in an effort to reach lower the cost of employing migrant workers. IWAY Must compliance.23 We have extended 22 T  his involves working with suppliers to determine what is a fair “piece rate” or are in an industry or supply setup that is prone to child labour or forced and Read more about our work with migrant workers the scope of IWAY at sub-suppliers to include (amount of pay per article produced). bonded labour. 23 S  ub-suppliers are defined as critical if processes performed are considered to be 24 3-5% is the average for Varanasi state in India. on page 72. green plant growers, and we continue to develop potentially highly harmful to the environment, health or safety of the workers, A BETTER LIFE FOR PEOPLE & COMMUNITIES Better lives for our co-workers | Better lives for workers in our supply chain | Respecting and supporting human rights | Lasting changes for communities | The IKEA Foundation 65 processes on how to secure IWAY compliance with Transport and services suppliers We recognise our responsibility to work with IKEA Indirect Material & Services a specific focus on critical supply chains such as suppliers to ensure every truck driver can expect (IKEA IMS) suppliers 90 cotton, wool, and recycled polyester. decent work for fair pay. % IWAY APPROVAL FOR SUPPLIERS 84 % THAT TRANSPORT OUR PRODUCTS IWAY APPROVAL FOR IKEA IMS In South Asia, all critical sub-suppliers have TO STORES AND DISTRIBUTION In FY16, we introduced a process and guidelines SUPPLIERS WITHIN IWAY SCOPE. been audited and are IWAY Must approved, with CENTRES BY LAND. for IWAY Spot Checks of truck drivers transporting suppliers taking ownership of their own supply IKEA goods. Our Sustainability Developers in 86% chains. We support our suppliers to train and IWAY APPROVAL FOR CENTRALLY Europe and Asia Pacific visit IKEA distribution In FY16, we continued our focus on consolidating audit critical sub-suppliers at regular intervals CONTRACTED TRANSPORT centres, consolidation points and stores.25 Here, and standardising the IKEA IMS supply chain, SUPPLIERS DELIVERING DIRECT and rolling out version 2 of our Sustainability in an effort to reach IWAY Must compliance. TO CUSTOMERS. they carry out voluntary, confidential interviews We have extended the scope of IWAY for subwith truck drivers to verify their working conditions Scorecard. This is similar to the IKEA Sustainability suppliers to other levels of the supply chain We have had an IWAY standard for transport and provide input to IWAY audits. Since January Product Scorecard – read more on page 35. The including non-critical suppliers. In our critical covering long-haul ocean and land transport 2016, we have carried out 37 spot checks in Scorecard goes beyond IWAY requirements on supply chains we are working together with our providers since 2005, and customer delivery 5 countries. issues such as packaging, sourcing and end of suppliers, encouraging them to take the lead in carriers since 2010. life, and is a useful tool in selecting new suppliers We continue to engage in dialogue with the or working with existing suppliers to improve securing IWAY compliance throughout their own In FY16, the approval rate for land transport transport unions so that together we can find ways performance. supply chains. providers decreased by 10 percentage points. to contribute to the positive development of the In Southeast Asia, all critical sub-suppliers have This is because 22 carriers could not be audited transport industry. Our improved IWAY processes include conducting been audited and are IWAY Must approved. To on time. We are developing a new approach to a more thorough risk assessment and performance further embed IWAY thinking within sub-supplier IWAY in ocean transportation and audits were evaluation prior to engaging a new supplier, as IWAY APPROVAL OF TRANSPORT AND management systems, we conduct face-toconsequently postponed in FY16. well as providing suppliers with more hands-on SERVICE SUPPLIERS face training alongside ongoing support and support to reach and maintain compliance. In South Asia, we collaborated with suppliers on communication with sub-suppliers in this region. a number of initiatives to enhance the lives of FY14 FY15 FY16 In FY16, the approval rate decreased by seven We are working together with our Natural Fibre workers in our transport supply chain, including: Customer delivery percentage points due to natural expected suppliers to extend IWAY to home-based workers suppliers, 100 86 86 variance, and because not all suppliers could be n introducing bank transfer payments and opening % of centrally contracted where necessary. Read more on page 73. suppliers approved audited on time. bank accounts for drivers in Pakistan We continued working towards securing IWAY n improving pay levels above the average for this Ocean transport providers, 100 100 N/A % approved compliance with selected sub-suppliers by sector in Bangladesh 99 % GLOBAL APPROVAL WITH IWAY Land transport providers, investing in building competence and hiring new MUSTS AT OUR CRITICAL HOME H IV/AIDS awareness days at three suppliers in 100 100 90 FURNISHING SUB-SUPPLIERS. n % approved Sustainability Developers to support this process. India, with plans for further sessions in Pakistan and Bangladesh IWAY APPROVAL OF IKEA INDIRECT Food suppliers26 MATERIAL & SERVICE (IMS) SUPPLIERS HOME FURNISHING (HF) TIER 2 n c elebrating Driver’s Day in India – suppliers SUB-SUPPLIERS (% IWAY APPROVED) ran a session on safe driving and distributed 63 % personal protective equipment to their drivers. IWAY APPROVAL FOR GLOBAL FY14 FY15 FY16 FOOD SUPPLIERS. Recently, there has been increasing awareness Total number of HF tier 2 and concern about social conditions in the trucking 16,561 18,954 19,492 suppliers In FY16, we expanded our IKEA Food sustainability industry, particularly within the European Union team to strengthen our ways of working with Total number of HF tier 2 (EU). Free movement of transport and workers IWAY. The focus of IWAY audits in FY16 has been suppliers with identified 1,691 1,897 1,933 in the EU offers opportunities for workers critical materials and to reach our goal of 50% IWAY approval for global processes and employers, but also presents the risk of suppliers. At the end of FY16 63% were IWAY 77 87 84 exploitation. For example, some companies will Share of HF tier 2 approved. Our FY17 goal is for 100% of global pay drivers the minimum wage of their country suppliers with identified food suppliers to be audited and approved. FY14 FY15 FY16 critical materials and 91 92 99 of origin, but predominantly offer them work in processes compliant with countries with higher local wages. This makes it Read more about our approach to sourcing food ‘IWAY Musts’, % approved 25 This can be in a planned or random manner, depending on local conditions. difficult for drivers to maintain a good standard of on page 31. 26 Refers to suppliers to IKEA Food Services AB. living while they work. A BETTER LIFE FOR PEOPLE & COMMUNITIES Better lives for our co-workers | Better lives for workers in our supply chain | Respecting and supporting human rights | Lasting changes for communities | The IKEA Foundation 66 Retail suppliers IKEA Catalogue suppliers IKEA Components suppliers suppliers in accordance with our updated goals, as part of our new IWAY working method: 87 % 80 % 97 % IWAY APPROVAL FOR HIGHER IWAY APPROVAL FOR IKEA IWAY APPROVAL OF IKEA n E  nd FY17 – all critical direct material suppliers RISK RETAIL SUPPLIER CATALOGUE SUPPLIERS WITHIN COMPONENTS SUPPLIERS. CATEGORIES (CLEANING, SECURITY, IWAY SCOPE. will be IWAY audited and approved and all WASTE MANAGEMENT AND CUSTOMER category 2 direct material suppliers30 will have DELIVERY SERVICE PROVIDERS27). implemented IWAY. By the end of FY16, we reached our goal of IKEA Components suppliers follow the same n E  nd FY18 – 80% of category 1 direct material In FY16, we completed the roll-out of our new way auditing all catalogue suppliers – based on annual approach to achieving and maintaining IWAY suppliers31 will have implemented IWAY. of working with IWAY in Retail. This consolidates audits of suppliers in China and biennial audits of compliance as IKEA Home Furnishing suppliers. all other suppliers.28 All suppliers conduct biannual In FY16 we have focused on maintaining and n E  nd FY19 – all category 1 direct material the approach for IKEA IMS and Retail with IWAY self-assessments on IWAY and industry-specific developing IWAY Compliance, and implementing suppliers will have implemented IWAY. implementation managed by IKEA IMS (see page 66). requirements for pulp, paper, print and digital.29 IWAY Musts for sub-suppliers. n E  nd FY20 – all category 2 direct material Sometimes there are challenges in reaching In China and the USA, it is challenging to We are extending the scope of IWAY to include suppliers and a minimum of 10 category 1 direct and maintaining IWAY compliance specific to a continuously meet specific IWAY requirements: more of the suppliers that deliver to our own material suppliers will be IWAY approved. particular region, due to less developed markets or low levels of competition. In other regions, specific working hours, overtime and taking one day off packaging units. We have made good progress and IKEA Industry service providers are now included supplier categories are high performing regardless in seven. We have established development plans aim to complete this work in FY17. in IWAY scope. In FY16, we developed a new of IWAY, such as security suppliers in the Nordic with some of our Chinese suppliers and worked guideline for securing IWAY at service providers closely with one of our print suppliers in the IWAY APPROVAL AT IKEA COMPONENTS countries where there are high legal demands and and communicated this with all sites. We achieved UNITS AND SUPPLIERS compliance. USA to develop an action plan. The suppliers are IWAY approval of all permanent on-site service now working through these plans to reach IWAY FY14 FY15 FY16 providers across FY15 and FY16. In FY17, we will By integrating IWAY for Retail and IKEA IMS, there compliance while also respecting local laws. IKEA Components units, continue the audit cycle with these suppliers, and is more hands-on contact between suppliers and 100 100 100 % approved any new service providers will also be developed IKEA Sustainability Developers, which: We ask our tier 1 suppliers to audit their critical sub-suppliers against IWAY Must requirements and Total number of IKEA and IWAY approved. c  ontributes to a higher level of IWAY compliance 242 252 381 n Components suppliers plan to have IKEA Auditors visit sub-supplier sites between audits IWAY APPROVAL AT IKEA INDUSTRY UNITS in the future. Total number of audits AND SUPPLIERS32 n e  nables a faster, more efficient audit process as conducted at IKEA 187 195 143 Read more about the environmental performance Components suppliers there are fewer compliance issues FY15 FY16 of our suppliers on page 40. IKEA Components n  uilds stronger relationships and better value b suppliers, % approved 99 99 97 Number of units and Where there were non-compliances, we worked suppliers within IWAY 319 805 for products and services. scope with 163 suppliers to implement corrective action plans (see above for examples). Upon re-audit, IWAY APPROVAL OF RETAIL CLEANING, 111 (68%) of these suppliers were then approved. IKEA Industry suppliers Number of audits 261 99 conducted WASTE MANAGEMENT AND CUSTOMER 38 % DELIVERY SERVICE SUPPLIERS IWAY APPROVAL OF IKEA IKEA Industry suppliers, IWAY AND INDUSTRY SPECIFIC APPROVAL INDUSTRY SUPPLIERS WITHIN % approved within scope 65 38 FY14 FY15 FY16 AT IKEA CATALOGUE SUPPLIERS IWAY SCOPE. Total number of IWAY FY14 FY15 FY16 audits conducted at retail 179 314 181 27 C ustomer delivery service providers managed by our retail operations are in suppliers Catalogue paper and In FY16 we focused on developing IWAY capability addition to those managed by our Transport & Services business. print suppliers, % IWAY 55 70 80 for our business teams and suppliers. Our newly 28 This excludes one new supplier scheduled for audit in FY17. Total number of retail approved 29 T hese include aspects such as bleaching requirements for paper, energy cleaning, security, formed Division Purchase Sustainability Team efficiency of data centres, ventilation systems in printing rooms and presence of waste management and 448 389 359 a written sustainability policy. customer delivery service Catalogue paper and print provides IWAY expertise and training, and supports 30 C ategory 2 direct material suppliers: All direct material suppliers producing in one providers suppliers, % approved the implementation of IWAY at suppliers, which or more geographically defined site(s), and are not defined as category 1. according to the industry 31 C ategory 1 direct material suppliers: Suppliers with an estimated value below Retail cleaning, security, specific requirements for 68 46 38 is increasingly important as we move towards the EUR20,000 per financial year; family companies with less than 5 employees; foresters with less than 5 employees; owners or leasers of land and forest, with waste management and pulp, paper, print and FY17 goal of our phased supply chain approach. In 40 85 87 no own personnel used in production; traders; co-operatives; distributors. customer delivery service digital providers, % approved FY16, we increased IWAY scope to include all direct 32 I ncludes material suppliers and on-site service providers. Figures are not comparable with previous years as a result of the formation of a new organisation material suppliers. We will continue to audit these with a new fully defined supplier base. A BETTER LIFE FOR PEOPLE & COMMUNITIES Better lives for our co-workers | Better lives for workers in our supply chain | Respecting and supporting human rights | Lasting changes for communities | The IKEA Foundation 67 RESPECTING AND SUPPORTING HUMAN RIGHTS The world and its people are and employment, but also presents Children are the most important WE AIM TO RESPECT AND UPHOLD THE RIGHTS OF INDIVIDUALS AND constantly changing. Populations challenges for integration and people in the world, and the VULNERABLE GROUPS ACROSS OUR VALUE CHAIN, EMPOWERING THEM TO and workforces are increasingly inclusion. future of our planet. They will face CREATE A BETTER EVERYDAY LIFE FOR THEMSELVES. mobile, with many people leaving Throughout this, one thing remains challenges and opportunities that their home countries to find a new we do not yet know about. We pay constant: the value we place home or look for work. particular attention to the rights on people. We want respect for of children, as well as focusing on The number of international human rights to be at the centre other groups where we can make migrants has increased by 41% of everything we do, so that we a big difference – migrant workers, PEOPLE & PLANET STATUS PERFORMANCE IN FY16 between 2000 and 2015, to can empower people to create a home-based workers, and social POSITIVE TARGETS 244 million.1 This opens new better everyday life for themselves, entrepreneurs. opportunities for cultural exchange whatever their circumstances. Develop and implement a Completed project to map a recruitment transparent and reliable system corridor in Southeast Asia. for the responsible recruitment Became a founder member of the Leadership of migrant workers at first-tier Group for Responsible Recruitment. suppliers in identified critical areas by August 2017. Continuously identify and develop Extended IWAY implementation and audit setups for home-based workers activity at tier 1 sub-suppliers in the natural to improve working conditions, fibre supply chain in Southeast Asia. protect labour rights and prevent Developed an action plan to tackle challenges child labour. By August 2020, in the natural fibre supply chain in Southeast all home-based workers are Asia. Suitable image required transitioned into improved setups and part of our handmade development programme. Advocate for children’s rights by Worked to raise awareness of UNICEF’s Child influencing policy development, Rights and Business Principles, and the IKEA raising awareness and supporting approach to children’s rights. families in vulnerable communities. Contributed to UNICEF training programmes, with a focus on how we develop our products. Developed a case study on our approach to children’s rights for the Global Child Forum to share experience, learnings and inspire others. LEGEND: Achieved Ongoing Not achieved 1 http://www.un.org/sustainabledevelopment/blog/2016/01/244-million-international-migrants-living-abroad-worldwide-new-un-statistics-reveal/ A BETTER LIFE FOR PEOPLE & COMMUNITIES Better lives for our co-workers | Better lives for workers in our supply chain | Respecting and supporting human rights | Lasting changes for communities | The IKEA Foundation 68 HUMAN RIGHTS RESPONSIBLE WAGE GOVERNANCE PRACTICES n T he IKEA Way on Preventing Child Labour and Supporting Young Workers n T he IKEA Way on Purchasing Products and Services (IWAY), our supplier code of conduct n I KEA Group Code of Conduct n I KEA Group Policy on People n I KEA Group Standard on People n I KEA Group Policy on Sustainability n I KEA Group Policy on Human Rights and Equality. We monitor emerging risks and expectations to keep these documents up to date. They provide important guidance to our co-workers and suppliers, supporting our efforts to prevent any negative human rights impacts associated with Our co-workers and our suppliers’ co-workers Since January 2013, we have worked with the our business. should earn enough to meet their basic needs Fair Wage Network to look at the current situation By focusing on the parts of our supply chain at and those of their family. That includes access in our operations and supply chain. We started highest risk of human rights issues, we can use to education, food, healthcare, housing and undertaking assessments and began making our resources most effectively for the greatest transport. They also have a right to reasonable changes to better support our co-workers and impact. Read more about our risk-based approach working hours, benefits and good working those at our suppliers. Since FY13, we have: to monitoring and supporting our supply chain on conditions. n d  eveloped a partnership with the Fair Wage page 61. Good working conditions help to attract and Network to use their assessment methodology When we identify a human rights risk within retain people and allow them to develop their in pilots in both our own operations and supply our supply chain, we strengthen due diligence skills. They contribute to co-workers feeling chain processes and take action to remedy where empowered and engaged – ultimately leading to n s  caled up the pilot and conducted further needed.2 We develop new guidance for issues high productivity, strong business performance assessments on wage practices in 10 countries where a strong message and clear process is and better products and services for our – we are analysing findings and will take action required – for example our new Guidelines customers. In FY16, we introduced the new accordingly on Human Rights in Communications and IKEA Group Employment Standards – a global Policy on Human Rights and Equality. approach to working conditions at IKEA. Read n e  stablished a Competence Network in more on page 55. Group Human Resources to guide the future Respect for human rights is not a one-off goal; development of wage practices. it is a way of thinking and a shared responsibility. In many countries, the legal minimum wage That is why we place a strong emphasis on does not match the changing cost of living, Based on our assessments, we have already communicating the importance of human rights which can make it difficult for workers to meet improved our wage structures in Japan and with co-workers and suppliers. We address their basic needs. the USA. We will use the results of the pilots to human rights in several of our codes, policies and continue to build our approach to responsible 2 T  he steps an organisation takes if it finds it has caused or contributed to standards. These include: human rights violations. wages at IKEA. A BETTER LIFE FOR PEOPLE & COMMUNITIES Better lives for our co-workers | Better lives for workers in our supply chain | Respecting and supporting human rights | Lasting changes for communities | The IKEA Foundation 69 CHILDREN'S RIGHTS Children are the most important people in the will measure how many young workers are present world. Every child has the right to survive, thrive, in supplier factories. learn, grow, play, and have their voice heard – but We take any suspected cases of child labour within many children do not have access to everything our supply chain very seriously. We focus on the they need to flourish. interests and safety of the child, and guided by Everything we do has the potential to impact our IWAY working methods, we carry out a multichildren’s lives. We want to make sure that impact step process from fact checking to confirming the is positive, by supporting and enhancing children’s business consequences for the supplier involved. rights wherever possible. We have a thorough system for following up We were part of a reference group for the suspected child labour cases, developed with development of the Children’s Rights and Business UNICEF, and always with the best interest of the Principles (the Principles), launched jointly by Save child in mind. In FY16, there were three suspected the Children, the UN Global Compact and UNICEF cases of child labour. After a full investigation, we in 2012. They offer a comprehensive framework were able to confirm that these were not cases of for understanding and addressing the impact of child labour. business on the rights and well-being of children, covering three core areas: the workplace, the We work The LATTJO The power of play marketplace, and community and environment. to protect collection was children's developed for We are serious about play. Every child (and every The Principles have helped us to look at every part rights in every children and adult!) has the right to play. It is learning for life – of our business through a children’s rights lens, part of our grown-ups to play business. together. fuelling development and creativity, teaching us to including what we are doing well and where we work together and sparking curiosity. But our FY15 need to do more. We are using them to structure Play Report showed that many children do not have our entire approach to children’s rights. the space or time to play as much as they or their children in Spain – more than a quarter of whom Child labour and young workers parents would like. Embedding the Children’s Rights currently live below the poverty line. El Poder del In FY16, we refocused our efforts within Children’s In FY16, we revised the IKEA Way on Preventing and Business Principles Infancia focuses on four key strategies that reflect IKEA to encourage the world to play more. Our Child Labour and Supporting Young Workers. In FY16, we continued to use the Principles to the IKEA Group approach to children’s rights. approach is always to take the child’s perspective. It clarifies and strengthens our position: by communicate our position internally and externally, 1 P lace the best interest of children at the centre eliminating child labour, we do not want to We base product development on sound knowledge and to identify areas where we need to strengthen of everything we do. also eliminate decent job opportunities for young and test every product with our most honest our approach. We worked with the Global Child workers under 18 who are legally allowed to work. critics – children themselves. We have zero2 E nable communities to create lasting change Forum and UNICEF to share our approach and Doing so risks young workers seeking jobs further tolerance towards any safety or health risks, and for vulnerable children and families. experience, and carried out internal training on the along the supply chain, where there may be less we take prompt action in the case of any safety or updated IKEA approach to preventing child labour 3 A dvocate and raise awareness for children’s scrutiny and a higher risk of hazardous conditions. compliance issues – see page 37. and supporting young workers. rights among Spanish society together with It is important that we work with suppliers so Home is a great playground, and we want to make key stakeholders. IKEA countries have started to integrate the that they feel able to offer suitable jobs to young it a place where families with children love to play Principles into their sustainability approaches. For 4 C ommunicate the IKEA Retail Spain position workers while ensuring no child labour – see and live their dreams together – wherever they example, in FY16 IKEA Retail Spain launched “El to stakeholders. feature on page 71. We know we have more to live and whatever their circumstances. In FY17 we Poder del Infancia” (The Power of Children). Their do to meet this challenge, and we will pay close will launch a new campaign designed to support plan puts the Principles at the heart of everyday attention to particular areas of our supply chain children’s rights to play and develop, Let’s Play for actions, with the aim of creating a better life for such as food, leather and cotton. From FY17, we Change. Read more on page 81. A BETTER LIFE FOR PEOPLE & COMMUNITIES Better lives for our co-workers | Better lives for workers in our supply chain | Respecting and supporting human rights | Lasting changes for communities | The IKEA Foundation 70 STAKEHOLDER CHALLENGE ENSURING SAFE JOBS FOR YOUNG WORKERS Dear IKEA, work, night work, or overtime. Some companies feel it is easier not to employ “The second decade of life can be critical them at all. to ensuring the investments made in early childhood continue into adulthood. We support the employment of young For young people, the transition from workers, and believe that the policy of school to work is particularly important. not employing anyone under 18 but This can have lifelong consequences: for above the legal minimum working age youngsters, for society as a whole, and is a discriminatory practice. We have for companies who can gain significantly updated our approach to child labour from investing in a valuable future prevention and are supporting young workforce. Evidence shows that when workers to reflect this and tackle the adolescent girls and boys are supported issue in our supply chain. and encouraged by caring adults, along And we are raising awareness of this with policies and services attentive to both within IKEA Group and beyond, their needs and capabilities, they have particularly with our suppliers. We want the potential to break long-standing to make sure all our suppliers know cycles of poverty, discrimination and that workers under 18 but above the violence. Hej Subajini! legal working age are not necessarily “We know that there is a shortage of classified as child labourers, and can be H  ow does IKEA promote decent jobs for young people, especially a valuable part of their workforce. youth employment and skill in less developed economies where It will take time to change people’s building, while ensuring the educational opportunities may also mindsets. But we believe this will protection of young people?” be scarce. And we see this in our own eventually create more opportunities for supply chain, where the number of young decent employment of young workers SUBAJINI JAYASEKARAN workers has dropped significantly over within our supply chain, while ensuring Corporate Social Responsibility Specialist the last decade. UNICEF the work is always safe and beneficial. Often, suppliers do not know about It is a big task, and we have just started legislation surrounding young workers, or our journey.” are afraid to be accused of child labour. Employing people under the age of 18 JOANA BARATA CORREIA brings extra requirements around the IWAY Development Manager IKEA Group type of work they can do – no hazardous A BETTER LIFE FOR PEOPLE & COMMUNITIES Better lives for our co-workers | Better lives for workers in our supply chain | Respecting and supporting human rights | Lasting changes for communities | The IKEA Foundation 71 MIGRANT WORKERS Migration is woven into human history. For centuries, people have moved between regions REUNITING DOMESTIC PHOTO: PER MIKAELSSON and across borders, often in search of new work and opportunities. Today, an estimated 150 million MIGRANT WORKERS people work in a country other than their country of birth,3 and many more travel within their own WITH THEIR CHILDREN country to seek new employment opportunities. IN CHINA, MORE THAN 200 MILLION PEOPLE Labour migration can have many benefits. It offers LEAVE THEIR HOMES AND FAMILIES BEHIND people the chance to earn money to support their EACH YEAR TO FIND WORK IN ANOTHER families, and to transfer income and knowledge CHINESE PROVINCE. back home. It also brings many challenges, particularly the protection of workers from exploitation Over 61 million children grow up without as they enter into complex recruitment processes. their parents.4 The challenges of finding accommodation, schools and childcare mean that In the worst cases, migrant workers can find they must leave them behind to be raised by themselves in forced or bonded labour – subject to relatives, or sometimes alone. In most cases, the violence and abuse – as they work to pay off debts children will only see their parents once a year. from large recruitment fees or are forced to hand over their passport to recruiters. “I’m a migrant worker myself and have been separated from my children for many years. I This is not acceptable – in our supply chain or in regret that I couldn’t stay with them and support any industry. We are committed to the responsible them during their childhood and adolescence,” recruitment of migrant workers and we do not says Chunan Lin, general manager of Dongguan tolerate forced labour or human trafficking. We set MYS – a large IKEA packaging supplier based in expectations for our suppliers through our supplier Southeast China, with a staff including around code of conduct, IWAY. It includes requirements 70% migrant workers. that workers should not pay any fees for finding a WATCH Together with Dongguan MYS and another THE VIDEO job, that passports should not be retained and that migrant workers’ rights should be respected. Read Chinese supplier, we have started the I Care more about IWAY on page 61. project. It aims to ensure fewer workers in our supply chain have to face the difficult prospect of where they can play, learn and grow together as comments. “But we are heading for long-term spending time apart from their children. a family. sustainable development with the aim to be Mapping migrant workers So far, Dongguan MYS has turned 35 of its a packaging giant in the future. Our workers In FY17, we plan to expand the project to around In FY16, we completed our project to map the are our biggest asset and the basis for keeping dormitories into family dormitories – furnished nine more Chinese suppliers, focusing on those recruitment corridor from suppliers in Southeast workers is to provide them with good benefits.” with product donations from IKEA. They have with a high share of migrant workers. In the long Asia back to the workers’ home countries, in talked to the local authorities to help the children term, we would like to inspire all of our suppliers Read more here, and watch a video about partnership with the International Organization for of migrant workers get into local schools and in China to implement similar solutions to reunite I Care from the link above. Read more about Migration (IOM). We aimed to gain a transparent created an after school activity room so that families. our approach to children’s rights on page 70. overview of the labour supply chain, including a parents know their children are cared for until better understanding of the challenges and For Chunan Lin, this is a personal mission, but the end of the working day. This enables children potential solutions. one that also makes good business sense. “Most to live with their parents, and enjoy a home life 4 h  ttps://www.statista.com/statistics/258434/number-of-rural-left-behindfactories in China don’t work in this way,” he children-in-china/ 3 http://www.ilo.org/global/topics/labour-migration/lang--en/index.htm A BETTER LIFE FOR PEOPLE & COMMUNITIES Better lives for our co-workers | Better lives for workers in our supply chain | Respecting and supporting human rights | Lasting changes for communities | The IKEA Foundation 72 We will use these findings to begin improving our standards and ways of working, and support “No one should have HOME-BASED WORKERS our suppliers to do the same. We will examine to pay for the right where else we should focus by gathering data to work, particularly on migrant workers across different parts of those who can least our business, and work with IOM to carry out afford it. IKEA’s further mapping projects. We also plan to revise commitment to IWAY documentation and training to strengthen putting people first demonstrates and clarify our requirements with respect to the leadership migrant workers. necessary to tackle unethical Partnering with others labour recruitment practices. Its ‘no Labour migration spans international borders fees’ policy regarding the recruitment and involves many different individuals and and employment of migrant workers in organisations, so protecting migrant workers is its supply chain is an important first step. not something we can achieve alone. A broad IOM is pleased to be a part of this global shift is required towards employers, not journey and will continue to challenge workers, bearing the cost of recruitment fees. IKEA and other companies to do more In recognition of the need for partnership and in their operations to ensure that global change, in FY16 we became a founder migrant workers have access to decent member of the Leadership Group for Responsible work, without the ‘invisible chains’ of Home-based work in the ‘informal’ sector is relies on home-based workers, particularly those Recruitment (LGRR). This group of multinational debt bondage and other exploitative common in many parts of the world. It enables offering unique weaving skills. companies and non-governmental organisations, practices. Sustainable workforces require fair treatment for all workers, people to fit work around their home life and other convened by the Institute for Human Rights We are working with our natural fibre suppliers including migrant women and men.” commitments, and can provide much needed and Business, has a bold and important aim: to in this region to tackle challenges such as lack of income to families living in poverty. eradicate worker fees over the coming decade. transparency in the supply chain and difficulty in We call this the “Employer Pays Principle”. AMBASSADOR LAURA THOMPSON This type of work also presents challenges. There ensuring decent working conditions. Deputy Director General, is little guarantee of safe and fair conditions for Together, we will develop a practical roadmap Our research collaboration with the International International Organization for Migration for other businesses to adopt the Employer Pays workers and their families, and a high risk of child Labour Organization in FY15 showed us a lot Principle with their suppliers and subcontractors. labour going undetected. about the current state of our natural fibre supply We will also: We are working closely with our suppliers to chain in Indonesia. In FY16 we launched a threen r aise awareness of the damaging impacts of improve set-ups for home-based workers. Our year project to develop a strategy to support recruitment fees on both workers and business Read more about our approach to workers’ rights focus is on creating better working conditions, home-based workers in Indonesia and Vietnam, efficiency in our transport supply chain on page 66. protecting labour rights and preventing child led by our wood and fibre business category. labour. By August 2020, all home-based workers n c ontinue to prohibit recruitment fees within In FY16, we continued to work closely with tier in our global supply chain will have transitioned our own operations and ensure compliance Domestic migration 1 sub-suppliers in Indonesia and Vietnam to into these improved set-ups and be part of our throughout supply chains implement IWAY and carry out audits. At the end Migration does not necessarily mean crossing handmade development programme. of FY16, 268 villages and all 98 weaving centres n a dvocate with peer companies and government national borders. In some countries, like China, in our Indonesian and Vietnamese natural fibre policy makers to deliver transformational many workers leave rural areas for cities. This Developing our strategy in supply chain were IWAY approved.5 change. comes with a different set of challenges. See the Southeast Asia feature on page 72. We welcome the introduction of the UK The natural fibre supply chain in Southeast Asia Modern Slavery Act, and will report all relevant (including materials like bamboo, rattan, seagrass 5 A  weaving centre is defined as a place where five or more workers congregate to work. Often many households within a village are involved in IKEA requirements in 2017. and water hyacinth) is an important source of production, so we register villages rather than individuals on our sub-supplier tracking system. IWAY approval of a village is based on the audit of a sample IKEA products. It is a category that traditionally of households within a specific community. A BETTER LIFE FOR PEOPLE & COMMUNITIES Better lives for our co-workers | Better lives for workers in our supply chain | Respecting and supporting human rights | Lasting changes for communities | The IKEA Foundation 73 SOCIAL ENTREPRENUERS services, and must match our expectations similar to any of our larger suppliers. It is VÄLBALANS international collection with Doi Tung a prerequisite and selection criteria that Development Project in Thailand. they also enable long-lasting positive social Available at 22 stores in four change. countries during FY16. Extending and expanding IKEA collections In FY16, we launched four new product collections, increasing the number of stores that stock these unique handcrafted products. Our work We will launch three further international with social collections in FY17, with two more planned entrepreneurs for FY18 – expanding production capacity and creates livelihood opportunities selling the collections in more countries. In for women and FY17, we will start several new partnerships minority groups. and our two partners in India will be ready to deliver a market-specific IKEA range. social entrepreneurs on a country level We have learnt a lot from our local Our social entrepreneur initiative enables us or in communities close to an IKEA store. partnerships with local social entrepreneurs to forge long-lasting partnerships with small Many of these local social enterprises offer in Denmark, Sweden and the USA. And we businesses to create sustainable, positive work to immigrant and refugee women. have decided to scale up our approach by social change in the communities where they This provides women and their families with encouraging other IKEA countries to form work. It supports these businesses to be part vital income where they would otherwise local partnerships to develop: of the IKEA supply chain where they ordinarily would not have access to our people or struggle to enter the labour market, while n s  ewing services similar to the one in our systems. producing local limited edition collections of Malmö, Sweden store (partnership with upcycled IKEA textiles and in-store sewing Yalla Trappan) Our partnerships take two forms. services. n c  ollections of upcycled IKEA textiles similar n I  nternational partnerships. We work All of our partnerships promote the to those produced in FY15 in Denmark with social entrepreneurs employing local empowerment and inclusion of women and (partnership with Place de Bleu) and the artisans to co-create unique limited edition minority groups, and the majority of the social USA (partnership with Open Arms). IKEA collections using traditional handicraft enterprises are led by women. By developing methods and materials. Most (82%) of We are developing global guidelines for these skills and securing regular incomes, the these artisans are women in rural areas, two offerings. This will enable IKEA countries artisans, immigrants and refugees working who would traditionally not have access to and stores to take a consistent approach, with these organisations are able to gain an independent income. These collections while developing partnerships that make independence, save money and plan for their are sourced centrally and available at a real and relevant difference in their local future. stores in several countries. communities. This is business, not charity. Our partners n L  ocal partnerships. Individual IKEA provide high quality handicraft collections and countries or stores collaborate with local A BETTER LIFE FOR PEOPLE & COMMUNITIES Better lives for our co-workers | Better lives for workers in our supply chain | Respecting and supporting human rights | Lasting changes for communities | The IKEA Foundation 74 Tracking progress HEMTRAKT As our partnerships with social international DIPTI’S STORY entrepreneurs expand, we want to collection with make sure they remain consistent Rangsutra and Science is not the subject for Industree in with our values by placing the India. Available girls, it is the subject for boys!” same expectations on them as we at 38 stores and would with other IKEA suppliers. one e-commerce location in seven These words, like so many of the other Before we start production with new challenges Dipti has faced throughout her life, countries. social enterprises, they must be only spurred her on to achieve what people compliant with IWAY Musts – said she couldn’t. a core set of requirements within our supplier code of conduct, IWAY Growing up in the state of Bihar, India, Dipti (read more about IWAY on page 61). recalls how things used to be: “I was the Our ambition is for all international eldest of two sisters and a brother. We girls partners to be completely IWAY were considered a burden on society. Life compliant, having fulfilled every for us was quite a challenge. It was tough, supplier requirement. In FY16, three YALLA TRAPPAN social enterprise provides a sewing especially for my mother as my father was service in our Malmö store. studying and did not have a job.” partners became completely IWAYcompliant. Despite their circumstances, Dipti’s mother We want to measure the impact maintained a strong belief in education, of our partnerships. In FY16, we supporting her daughters to attend school developed a set of metrics to do so. and complete their studies. Dipti achieved a Key performance indicators cover PhD in Physics, but still felt suppressed and aspects such as % IWAY compliance, lacking identity as she struggled to accept the number of women in leadership the restriction of freedom she experienced positions and the number of people as a woman. working with IKEA production. “I was living life according to others’ choices,” n N  umber of artisans creating says Dipti. “One day I made the decision, and and producing collections and said no! I have one life. I can either live my services: 2,150 life by others’ choices or by my choices. And then I started changing my way of living, my WATCH n P  roportion of female artisans: way of thinking, my way of studying, my way THE VIDEO 82% KRYDDAD international collection with Rangsutra of exploring the world and I found that people It is four years since we started our and Industree in India. Available at 40 stores in started loving me. I was walking towards the seven countries.6 would give young Indian women is that right first partnership. Now we can begin sunrise of women’s empowerment.” now you may be following male society, but to assess the wider social benefit of Since then, Dipti has dedicated her life to the day will come when you will be followed these partnerships. In FY17 we will the economic empowerment of women. She by society.” start our first social impact audit founded the Varanasi Weavers Foundation with Industree PT, our partner in before moving to a job as Program Manager Dipti’s story is inspiring, and we hope that by India, performed by an external for social enterprise Rangsutra, managing the continuing to develop our partnerships with auditor. partnership with IKEA. She supports women social enterprises like Rangsutra, we can play to challenge cultural norms, to find their own a small part in many more women’s journeys profession and their own voice. And she has to empowerment. nothing but hope for the future: “The advice I Watch Dipti tell her story at the link above. 6 Correct as of November 2016. A BETTER LIFE FOR PEOPLE & COMMUNITIES Better lives for our co-workers | Better lives for workers in our supply chain | Respecting and supporting human rights | Lasting changes for communities | The IKEA Foundation 75 LASTING CHANGES FOR COMMUNITIES SOCIETY FACES SOME OF THE BIGGEST CHALLENGES OF OUR TIME, INCLUDING CLIMATE CHANGE AND ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL INSTABILITY. AS THE WORLD’S BIGGEST HOME FURNISHING RETAILER, WITH A VALUE CHAIN STRETCHING AROUND THE WORLD, WE HAVE A GREAT RESPONSIBILITY TO SUPPORT THIS GLOBAL COMMUNITY. We want to use our reach and influence to have At IKEA Group locations, we aim to enable and a positive impact for communities – from those empower nearby communities to improve their lives. surrounding our operations and supply chain, to those We focus wherever people’s needs are greatest, indirectly affected when we source and use resources. creating long-term change through partnerships with local organisations, customers and co-workers. PEOPLE & PLANET STATUS PERFORMANCE IN FY16 POSITIVE TARGETS Engage customers and co-workers in annual Developed a new good cause campaign focusing campaigns for good causes to improve children’s on children’s right to play and develop. lives in some of the world’s poorest communities. The Soft Toys for Education campaign generated Each campaign will aim to contribute EUR 15 EUR 11.1. million. The Brighter Lives for Refugees million a year. campaign generated EUR 12.4 million.1,2 By August 2020, more than 500 co-workers from Since 2012, 373 co-workers from 34 IKEA around the world will have participated in IKEA countries have been on 59 trips across the globe. Foundation IWitness trips by visiting schools and communities that are supported by annual good cause campaigns.3 All IKEA Group units will engage in local Modified and developed the IKEA Group Standard, community activities in line with People & Planet Rule and Guideline on Community Involvement. Positive, based on local needs assessment and co-worker engagement. LEGEND: Achieved Ongoing Not achieved 1 F igures for both campaigns are from November and December 2015. 3 I Witness is a partnership programme between the IKEA Foundation (see 2 T he Soft Toys for Education and Brighter Lives for Refugees campaigns page 79) and IKEA Group. It provides an opportunity for IKEA Group are partnership programmes between the IKEA Foundation (see page 79) co-workers to visit IKEA Foundation projects around the world. The IKEA and IKEA Group. Foundation is the philanthropic arm of Stichting Ingka Foundation, the owner of the IKEA Group. A BETTER LIFE FOR PEOPLE & COMMUNITIES Better lives for our co-workers | Better lives for workers in our supply chain | Respecting and supporting human rights | Lasting changes for communities | The IKEA Foundation 76 PARTNERSHIPS WITH PARTNERSHIPS LOCAL COMMUNITIES Here are some of the ways IKEA stores, shopping centres and IKEA Industry partnered with their communities in FY16. Our co-workers and customers continue n e  ngage and enthuse co-workers to to amaze us with their creativity and lead community programmes IKEA RETAIL CHINA launched a project IKEA INDUSTRY led over 270 community enthusiasm for enabling and empowering working with communities and suppliers to involvement projects, almost half of which n m  aintain a transparent and inclusive others. Every year we see new types of improve the self-confidence, dignity and were education and awareness projects for approach, always reflecting IKEA local initiatives that contribute to a better inclusion of migrant children. Partnering children. Activities included renovation of culture and values with NGO Adream, they will provide an orphanage and support for a children’s life for people and a more sustainable education courses for the children and their hospital (IKEA Industry Lubawa, Poland); environment. n e  xplore ways to measure impact parents at dedicated community centres. cleaning up a river bank to enhance a c  o-ordinate activities with other IKEA Projected impacts: 260 sessions per year local water supply (IKEA Industry Tikhvin, We want to harness that enthusiasm, n for 7,800 migrant children and parents. Russia); and teaching children about to make sure every IKEA community operations where possible. the importance of responsible forest activity has the best possible impact. Through our Community Involvement management (IKEA Industry Dalian, China). working group, we are examining Progress in FY16 which metrics we can collect on a consistent basis to track and In FY16, we began work to strengthen demonstrate the overall impact of our both the IKEA Group Standard and community involvement activities. Once The IKEA office in VIETNAM partnered IKEA RETAIL CANADA celebrated 20 the Rule on Community Involvement, established, we will begin reporting with The Library Project to renovate and years of partnership with Tree Canada. to boost the existing work and create equip a local elementary school. Impacts: Since the partnership began in 1996: more against them. lasting positive change. These two 323 students benefiting from 1,000 books, than EUR 845,000 (USD 750,000) donated, documents will build on our current Rule IKEA Industry is also working to update 6 bookshelves and a library management 27,679 trees and shrubs planted. its global strategy for community system. on Community Involvement to provide our retail operations with a consistent involvement, starting with the first approach to supporting the most meeting of the IKEA Industry Community vulnerable people in their communities. Involvement Working Group in August 2016. This group shares a member with Individual IKEA locations and countries our retail-led working group to ensure a are best placed to understand their own consistent approach. From September circumstances and local needs. We want 2016, community involvement will be to encourage them to tackle the needs systematically assessed as part of IKEA of their communities as they see fit. The Industry factory environment, health and IKEA RETAIL JAPAN partnered with IKEA RETAIL RUSSIA worked with new guideline supports them with insafety grading audits. This will enable us customers to launch the IKEA FAMILY disability NGO Perspektiva to increase depth advice and best practice examples. Children’s Fund – donating JPY 10 from awareness about the importance to understand where we need to do more We hope this guidance will encourage the every use of an IKEA FAMILY Card to fund of inclusion in local schools and the to work with local communities makeovers of childcare facilities in the community. Impacts: 15 schools across 3 different IKEA countries to: for positive change. local community. Impacts: 25 facilities locations; 146 disability awareness lessons n a  ssess local needs and focus where improved, benefitting more than 1,000 involving 1,041 children; 278 attendees IKEA Industry units share learning children. at teacher training sessions and seminars. they can have the greatest impact for and community involvement stories All 14 Centres in Russia took part in the the most vulnerable people through the annual sustainability leaflet ‘Change Campaign’ that encouraged n p  artner with knowledgeable local ‘Connecting’, with units tailoring content members of the public to exchange old clothes for vouchers to buy new ones. organisations to ensure efforts are to communicate relevant local activities. Over 60,000 people took part, donating appropriate and lead to sustainable It is currently produced by around over 320 tonnes of clothes. change 15 Industry units in local languages. A BETTER LIFE FOR PEOPLE & COMMUNITIES Better lives for our co-workers | Better lives for workers in our supply chain | Respecting and supporting human rights | Lasting changes for communities | The IKEA Foundation 77 SUPPORTING PHOTO: FRANK BRANDSÅS, HAMAR ARBEIDERBLAD (LEFT) Working to support refugees REFUGEES in AUSTRIA. THERE IS A GLOBAL REFUGEE CRISIS. MORE THAN 65 MILLION PEOPLE AROUND THE WORLD HAVE BEEN FORCED TO LEAVE THEIR Images to source: Suitable HOME, WITH MANY FINDING THEMSELVES IN image representative of UNFAMILIAR PLACES AND SITUATIONS AS A supporting refugees. Apparently RESULT OF CONFLICT OR DISRUPTION IN THEIR there are some available HOME COUNTRIES. THIS IS HAPPENING ON THE according to the Word document. DOORSTEP OF IKEA LOCATIONS. MORE THAN FUNDING PROVIDED FOR IKEA LOCATIONS TO SUPPORT 4m A multinational EUR LOCAL REFUGEES THROUGH DONATIONS AND COMMUNITY team at IKEA RINGSAKER, PROJECTS, IN FY16 NORWAY. Driven by our values, we believe that IKEA Group can play an important role in enabling support and inclusion for those who need it most – to contribute to the inclusion and support of n I  KEA Retail Germany developed ‘Dein co-workers to better understand the refugees’ including refugees. refugees – partnering with knowledgeable local Einsatz’ (‘Your Commitment’), a volunteering situations and learn how to avoid and solve organisations. In FY16 we launched the IKEA and product donation initiative that has so cultural conflicts at work. After the internship, We are committed to supporting refugees, both Group Refugee Support Fund alongside a global far seen more than 500 projects to support participants are provided with a reference and now and in the long term. Immediate needs can guideline to give IKEA countries the ability to refugees. These include IKEA Stiftung funding encouraged to apply for open positions be as basic as the provision of blankets, while create the most effective local response to this Save the Children’s first Child Friendly Space in at IKEA. Around 110 local refugees will aspects like employment and language skills are unforeseen crisis. the refugee centre at Berlin’s former Tempelhof benefit from the programme until FY19. important in the long term for refugees to build Airport – catering for the needs of 90 Read more here. decent livelihoods in their new homes. The response to the Fund has so far been children each day. fantastic. From the donation of products and n  ur distribution centre in Toronto, Canada O We are currently developing our approach to food, to education projects and volunteering, con I  KEA Retail Norway collaborated with the partnered with the Syrian Resettlement supporting refugees, and we have a lot to learn workers have demonstrated how much they care. local Red Cross to hold a friendship party for Program, the United Way of Peel Region and about the challenges and opportunities that Here are some examples from FY16. refugees and the local community, and provide the Polycultural Immigrant and Community refugees are facing. a 150 person temporary home in Oslo. They Services to distribute backpacks full of family n I  KEA Retail South East Europe (Croatia, also donated 800 kits, including soft toys and range products and positive messages of We take the same approach to integrating Romania, Serbia, Slovenia) collaborated with drawing materials, to refugee children. support to Syrian refugees resettling in the refugees into the workplace as we would with UNHRC and UNICEF to donate 500 bunk beds, local area. anyone else, based on our inclusion model – read bedlinen, towels and children products to n I  KEA Retail Switzerland opened its more on page 56. But we know there is a wider transit camps in Serbia and a centre for asylum Refugee Inclusion Programme, offering six Read more about IKEA Group Next Generation need to support refugee integration within many seekers in Croatia. They also set up child month internships to refugees in different Social Entrepreneurs and its work with refugees local communities outside the workplace. friendly areas in local refugee transit camps, departments across all the Swiss IKEA stores. on page 74. With sensitivity to local circumstances and where children can receive psychological This enables refugees to become familiar support and take part in organised activities. with the Swiss working culture and allows Read more about the IKEA Foundation’s work needs, we encourage IKEA Group locations with refugees on page 80. A BETTER LIFE FOR PEOPLE & COMMUNITIES Better lives for our co-workers | Better lives for workers in our supply chain | Respecting and supporting human rights | Lasting changes for communities | The IKEA Foundation 78 THE IKEA FOUNDATION PHOTO: VICTORIA BOWDEN IKEA FOUNDATION STATUS PERFORMANCE IN FY16 TARGETS5 By end of 2020, the IKEA Confirmed four grant areas and Foundation will contribute EUR distributed first grants. 400 million to support families and communities who are most impacted by climate change. By August 2019, the IKEA Since launching the partnership Foundation will develop programmes in Bangladesh in 2013, over to help 1 million people secure 178,000 people have benefited access to clean water and proper from improved access to water or sanitation, through its partnership sanitation facilities, or both. with Water.org. In 2015, the partnership was extended to India and Indonesia to support more than 1 million people. To date, it has reached more than The IKEA Foundation is the philanthropic arm of n c  ommitted EUR 400 million through 2020 to support 42,000 people. Stichting INGKA Foundation, the owner of the families and communities who are most impacted by In 2016, agreements were signed IKEA Group. climate change with two new partners in India and one in Indonesia, and capacity The IKEA Foundation’s mission is to create substantial n c  ommitted to increase its grants to 200 EUR million building workshops were organised and lasting change by funding holistic, long-term a year by 2020 in Indonesia. programmes in some of the world’s poorest communities n p  artnered with IKEA Group and non-profit that address children’s fundamental needs: home, By January 2018, the IKEA Completed an extensive scoping organisations to develop a new campaign to focus on Foundation aims to help one million study to test the relevance health, education and a sustainable family income, children’s rights to play and develop (read more on women in India develop the skills of project design and secure while helping communities fight and cope with page 81) they need to manage their own partnership of Indian government climate change. businesses and social ventures, and and private companies. n launched a programme to empower 1 million women successfully sell products to global The IKEA Foundation is working towards a world where Launched 20 pilots to test in India, together with UNDP, Indian Development and local customers. new models of public-private children living in poverty have more opportunities to Foundation and Xynteo partnerships, one led by IKEA Retail create a better future for themselves and their families. India. n h  osted over 30 grantees in Älmhult for the first ever All children should have a safe place to call home, culture and values retreat, to share the IKEA values a healthy start in life, a quality education and a sustainable family income. The IKEA Foundation n r an a democratic design challenge to show how LEGEND: Achieved Ongoing Not achieved funds programmes that address these needs, creating design can help create a better everyday life for circles of prosperity for children living refugees living in cities and urban areas. 5 I KEA Foundation targets have been updated to reflect evolving focus and ambitions. in poverty. In 2016, the IKEA Foundation: n e  stimates that it has made grants totalling 4 D  ata from the IKEA Foundation reflects the period between 1 January 2016 to 31 December 2016. The IKEA Foundation Annual Review, to be published in February 2017, EUR 140 million4 will include the final amount granted in 2016. A BETTER LIFE FOR PEOPLE & COMMUNITIES Better lives for our co-workers | Better lives for workers in our supply chain | Respecting and supporting human rights | Lasting changes for communities | The IKEA Foundation 79 Climate change energy needs. The funding will unlock education opportunities for young children, for example PHOTO: TOMASZ BIERNACKI Climate change disrupts infrastructure and access helping them transition from primary to secondary to food and water, fuels conflict over limited education. resources and increases global inequalities. It is possibly the biggest threat to children in poverty. In 2016, the IKEA Foundation launched a new initiative: the ‘What Design Can Do Refugee In 2016, the IKEA Foundation set out four areas Challenge’, in partnership with UNHCR and for grants from its EUR 400 million commitment to Amsterdam-based design platform What Design support families and communities who are most Can Do. It challenges creative thinkers from impacted by climate change. around the world to create new design solutions n G  reen grids. Introduce or scale renewable to support the growing number of refugees in energy as a principal source of power for those urban areas and help them integrate. Between living in some of the poorest communities in the February and June 2016, more than 600 entrants world – aiding some of the 1.3 billion people on from 69 countries submitted ideas – from a flatthe planet lacking access to electricity. pack house that can be built in just a few hours, n C  limate-adapted agriculture for food to a photo agency that aims to show refugees security and sustainable income. Strengthen as people with the same ambitions as everyone agricultural value chains in Asia and Africa, else. Five winners were announced in July, each targeting smallholder farmers to adopt climate receiving EUR 10,000 to develop their concepts sensitive techniques. into reality. Read more here. n M  atching funds for climate resilience. Also in 2016: Educate and empower vulnerable communities that wish to fortify or rebuild vital infrastructure n E  UR 9.4 million donation to support children and in innovative, climate smart ways. their families who have been affected by the Syrian conflict (read more here) n P  rivate sector and citizen leadership for a carbon neutral world. Invest in innovative n T  he Better Shelter – a durable, safe, lightweight ideas that can transform sectors, current flat-pack shelter that began as a partnership practices, and consumer consciousness with between the IKEA Foundation and UNHCR, respect to climate adaptation and mitigation. and is now a commercial product – was deployed in areas including Europe and Iraq Read more here. (read more here). The Better Shelter was included in Time magazine’s Best Inventions Supporting and enabling refugees of 2016 IWITNESS Around the world, children and their families are n E  UR 7.3 million partnership with Oxfam to forced to leave their homes because of conflicts EACH YEAR, THE IWITNESS PROGRAMME GOAL: AUGUST 2020 improve disaster response in Bangladesh and ENABLES IKEA CO-WORKERS TO VISIT 500 or natural disasters. The IKEA Foundation aims to Uganda (read more here) AT LEAST 500 CO-WORKERS support these vulnerable people. PROJECTS RUN BY SAVE THE CHILDREN, FROM AROUND THE WORLD WILL n E  UR 12.4 million grant to Water.org to expand UNHCR AND UNICEF, AND SUPPORTED HAVE PARTICIPATED IN IKEA Over the past three years, the Brighter Lives for its WaterCredit model in India and Indonesia FOUNDATION IWITNESS TRIPS BY THE IKEA FOUNDATION THROUGH Refugees campaign has raised EUR 30.8 million for (read more here). ANNUAL GOOD CAUSE CAMPAIGNS. SINCE 2012 UNHCR, the UN Refugee Agency. This will provide 373 light and renewable energy sources for refugee Read more about IWitness here. CO-WORKERS FROM 34 IKEA families living in camps in Asia, Africa and the COUNTRIES HAVE BEEN ON Middle East. IKEA Foundation funding is enabling 59 TRIPS ACROSS THE GLOBE UNHCR to apply technological interventions in diverse cultural settings and address specific A BETTER LIFE FOR PEOPLE & COMMUNITIES Better lives for our co-workers | Better lives for workers in our supply chain | Respecting and supporting human rights | Lasting changes for communities | The IKEA Foundation 80 ENABLING THE LET’S PLAY FOR CHANGE WORLD TO LEARN IKEA Group and IKEA Foundation working together AND PLAY! FOCUS: Support children’s rights to play and develop in some of the most vulnerable SINCE 2003, THE IKEA FOUNDATION HAS DONATED communities in the world EUR 1 FOR EVERY SOFT TOY SOLD DURING THE SOFT TOYS FOR EDUCATION CAMPAIGN IN IKEA STORES DATES: 20 November – 24 December 2016 IN NOVEMBER AND DECEMBER. RANGE: The entire play range This longstanding partnership with Save the Children and UNICEF funded educational projects in some of DONATION: EUR 1 from the IKEA the world’s poorest communities. Thanks to the Foundation for every children’s book and toy support of IKEA co-workers and customers, this sold during the campaign period 13-year campaign has: PROGRAMME PARTNERS: Handicap International, Room to Read, Save the EUR88m DONATED BY IKEA Children, Special Olympics, UNICEF, War FOUNDATION AS A Child RESULT OF THE SOFT TOYS FOR EDUCATION This is a central part of the IKEA movement CAMPAIGN to encourage and enable play. Everybody should play more, including adults! And 100 PROJECTS SUPPORTED what better way to celebrate this than by IN 46 COUNTRIES kicking off the IKEA good cause campaign for children’s rights to play and develop for the first time on Universal Children’s day – 12m ENABLED MORE THAN 12 MILLION CHILDREN LIVING IN POVERTY TO 20 November 2016. RECEIVE A BETTER EDUCATION Let’s Play for Change will enable people to participate in a good cause that has positive After the success of the Soft Toys for Education impacts both far away and close to home, campaign, IKEA Group and the IKEA Foundation want by increasing local community involvement to do even more to support children’s rights to play activities and co-worker engagement. and develop, and to engage IKEA customers, To support future good cause campaigns, co-workers and partners. the IKEA Group launched a new Good Cause Together we have developed a new campaign – Let’s Campaign Approach in FY16, based on our Play for Change. It involves more partners, more IKEA learnings from Soft Toys for Education and products and more ways to take part! Brighter Lives for Refugees. It is a shared tool for people working with IKEA Good Cause campaigns, aimed at securing a consistent approach to creating, planning and executing future initiatives. A BETTER LIFE FOR PEOPLE & COMMUNITIES Better lives for our co-workers | Better lives for workers in our supply chain | Respecting and supporting human rights | Lasting changes for communities | The IKEA Foundation 81 PHOTO: LUMENTO GOVERNANCE & ETHICS Sustainability is central to the way we We can have a much greater impact when work, and one of the cornerstones of we work with others. We create strategic our business strategy. partnerships and listen to our stakeholders to make sure that we are always improving. To achieve our ambition of creating a sustainable business that has a positive impact on people and the planet, we need to bring all of our co-workers on board. GOVERNANCE AND ETHICS About IKEA Group | Sustainability governance and management | Business ethics | Taxes | Public policy and advocacy 82 ABOUT IKEA GROUP Ownership structure The IKEA Group of companies (Ingka Charity Holding B.V. and its controlled Stichting IKEA Foundation The IKEA Group operates stores under franchise entities) has an ownership structure Stichting Ingka Foundation agreements Owner of the IKEA Group that ensures independence and a Management of financial assets The IKEA Group is one of 13 franchisees, operating IKEA stores Stichting IMAS Foundation long-term approach. Stichting Ingka under franchise agreements with Inter IKEA Systems B.V., the Foundation in the Netherlands is our owner of the IKEA Concept and the worldwide IKEA franchisor. owner, and its funds can be used in Inter IKEA Systems B.V. is based in the Netherlands and owned only two ways: it can be reinvested The IKEA Group by the Inter IKEA Group. Inter IKEA Group and IKEA Group are in the IKEA Group or donated for two separate groups of companies with different management (Ingka Holding B.V. and its controlled entities) charitable purposes through the and different owners. All IKEA franchisees pay a 3% franchise Stichting IKEA Foundation. fee to Inter IKEA Systems B.V. The franchise fee gives us, as an IKEA retailer, the right to operate stores under the IKEA Concept and IKEA brand. It grants access to systems, methods IKEA Group of companies Stina Bergfors, Tore Bertilsson, Luisa Agnefjäll, together with the Group and proven solutions as well as staff trainings, manuals and Delgado, Jonas Kamprad, Göran Management team.The IKEA Group updates of the IKEA concept such as store layouts, fittings and Ingka Holding B.V. is the parent display concepts. Lindahl, Mark Newton-Jones1, Lone operates distribution and customer company of the IKEA Group, located Fønss Schrøder and Ian Worling1. distribution centres, shopping centres in Leiden, the Netherlands. As per 31 Ingvar Kamprad, the founder and 340 stores in 28 countries. August 2016, its Supervisory Board of IKEA, is senior advisor to the consists of: Lars-Johan Jarnheimer Supervisory Board. The IKEA Group (Chairman), Jon Abrahamsson Ring1, 1 N ew member of the Supervisory Board from 29 November is led by its President and CEO, Peter 2016. Sale of product development, supply chain and production companies The IKEA Group Chairman of the Supervisory Board: Lars-Johan Jarnheimer In May 2015, IKEA Group signed a letter of intent to sell its product development, supply chain and production companies, (Ingka Holding B.V. and its controlled entities) President and CEO: Peter Agnefjäll (IKEA of Sweden AB, IKEA Supply AG and IKEA Industry Holding B.V. and other connected companies) to Inter IKEA Group. The GROUP FUNCTIONS new structure simplifies the IKEA franchise system and allows Commercial IKEA Business Business Navigation IKEA Group2 to focus even more on the customer and Solutions & Finance Corporate on development of multichannel retailing and distribution. Communications Customer Corporate Finance, HR Experience Tax & Treasury The transaction was completed according to plan on 31 August Expansion Legal & 2016 and the transfer of ownership was made through sale of CUSTOMER Marketing & Comin Governance CENTRES RETAIL shares. As a result, some 26,000 co-workers became part of FULFILMENT Sustainability Strategy, Process & Organisation Property the Inter IKEA Group. Risk Management & Compliance 2 A  s of 31 August , 2016, the IKEA Group consists of three core businesses: Retail, Shopping Centres and Customer fulfilment. SERVICE FUNCTIONS FINANCIAL ASSET MANAGEMENT GOVERNANCE AND ETHICS About IKEA Group | Sustainability governance and management | Business ethics | Taxes | Public policy and advocacy 83 SUSTAINABILITY GOVERNANCE AND MANAGEMENT Sustainability at IKEA Group Cross-organisational working groups provide leadership, best practices, research and support on specific sustainability KEY PARTNERSHIPS Our vision is to create a better everyday life for the many topics. They bring together co-workers from across the TOPIC PARTNERSHIP PAGE people. Having a positive impact on people and the planet is IKEA value chain to share learnings, align approaches, and fundamental to achieving that vision. CIRCULAR Ellen MacArthur Foundation CE100 – a global 87 establish long-term action plans to achieve their sustainability ECONOMY platform of companies and innovators aimed at Sustainability is one of the four cornerstones of the IKEA Group goals. For example, the Water Working Group has improved accelerating the transition to the circular economy. direction, ‘Growing IKEA Together’. Our Chief Sustainability water efficiency in our own operations, and is tackling water Officer, Steve Howard, is a member of Group Management risk across our supply chain, see page 49. Other crossand reports directly to the Group President and CEO, Peter organisational working groups are covering topics such CLIMATE RE100 – an international initiative to support 13 Agnefjäll. Our CSO oversees our performance against the CHANGE companies aiming to be 100% renewable. as energy, waste, circularity, community involvement and sustainability commitments we have made in the People & sustainability reporting. 86 We Mean Business – a coalition of organisations that Planet Positive strategy and Growing IKEA Together. brings together businesses, organisations and investors Every co-worker is responsible for contributing towards to accelerate action on climate change. In September 2016, IKEA range, supply and production our sustainability objectives and achieving our ambition of activities were transferred from the IKEA Group to the Inter becoming people and planet positive. Our co-workers meet IKEA Group. This change in ownership aims to improve the customers every day, learning and understanding their needs. FAIR WAGES Fair Wage Network – an NGO committed to 69 IKEA franchise system and enable the two groups of companies They have the opportunity to inspire and enable people to promoting fair wage practices in companies’ own to focus on their respective core businesses. This will not live a more sustainable life at home, and to improve the way operations and in their supply chain. change our commitment to have a positive impact on people we work. Read more about our work to embed sustainability and the planet. All the commitments in the People & Planet across IKEA on page 19, and how we aim to make IKEA the MIGRANT International Organization for Migration (IOM) 72 Positive strategy still stand, and the company groups will work best place to work on page 54. WORKERS – an inter-governmental organisation that works with closely together to ensure that we do not lose momentum in migrants, governments and businesses to respond to our sustainability efforts across the IKEA value chain. growing migration challenges. Sustainability Risks Our CSO chairs the Sustainability Management Group, which Group Sustainability reports any risks or concerns relating to brings together sustainability managers from the main RESPONSIBLE Aquaculture Stewardship Council (ASC) and 32 sustainability to the IKEA Group Risk Committee, consisting of SOURCING Marine Stewardship Council (MSC) – leading business areas. Together they review performance against three members of Group Management. The committee meets organisations that provide certification for sustainable our targets and make strategic decisions on sustainability in around four times a year. seafood and drive the sustainability agenda in these IKEA Group. Progress towards our goals is reported to Group areas. Management and the Supervisory Board every three months. Sustainability risks are handled on different levels in the In FY16 the Sustainability Management Group comprised the organisation. In FY16, we developed a risk management Better Cotton Initiative (BCI) – a multi-stakeholder 29 initiative that aims to improve global standards in Heads of Sustainability Policy & Compliance, Sustainability process and began rolling it out across the business. We also cotton production. Innovation, Sustainability Communication, and sustainability ran sustainability risk assessment pilots in Range & Supply and managers from Range & Supply, IKEA Industry and Retail & Purchasing. Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) – a multi25 stakeholder initiative that aims to promote responsible Expansion. management of the world’s forests. From September 2016, the Sustainability Management Group Working with others Sustainable Palm Oil Initiative – a major public31 will comprise the IKEA Group Chief Sustainability Officer, We cannot achieve all of our goals alone. Across our private partnership that supports the sustainable the Heads of Sustainability Integration & Development, value chain we partner with NGOs, governments, industry production of palm oil while minimising adverse social Sustainability Policy & Compliance, Sustainability Innovation and environmental impacts. organisations and other businesses to increase our positive and Sustainability Communication, and sustainability managers impact on people and the planet. World Wide Fund for Nature (WWF) – an 26 from IKEA Centres, IKEA IMS, Customer Fulfilment and IKEA international NGO. We work together to transform 27 Property. To find out more about some of our key partnerships in FY16, the market for cotton and wood towards more see the table. sustainable sources. 30 GOVERNANCE AND ETHICS About IKEA Group | Sustainability governance and management | Business ethics | Taxes | Public policy and advocacy 84 BUSINESS ETHICS TAXES Ethical conduct Training FY12–FY16 TAX Honesty, respect, integrity and fairness are at the heart We train our co-workers on our Code of Conduct, of everything we do. It is essential that our co-workers the IKEA Group Standard on Anti-Corruption and (BILLIONS OF EUROS) respect and live these values every day. the IKEA Group Policy on Anti-Corruption to ensure they understand how to act on behalf of IKEA. Our Over the last five years We expect all our co-workers and partners to comply 2 purchasing organisation, Range & Supply, is more (FY12–FY16), corporate with our Code of Conduct, Good Business with Common income tax and other exposed to corruption risks and receives more in-depth Sense, the IKEA Group Standard on Anti-Corruption and taxes amounted training on business ethics. to approximately 1,5 the IKEA Group Policy on Anti-Corruption. We take a zero tolerance approach to corruption, harassment, and EUR 7.7 billion. alcohol and drug abuse. Raising concerns 1 At IKEA we promote an open culture of trust and honest Misconduct communication, built on a foundation of respect and fairness. All co-workers are encouraged, and should feel We offer clear guidance on how to manage co-worker 0,5 empowered, to come forward in good faith and raise misconduct and undertake regular risk assessments in any concern they may have. this area on a regional and national level. If any policy Other tax and duties breaches do occur, we investigate quickly and carefully. Concerns are normally raised with the people involved. 0 Corporate income tax FY12 FY13 FY14 FY15 FY16 We ensure a consistent and accountable approach to If this is not appropriate, they are raised with the our internal investigations through the IKEA Group respective manager, senior management, human Rule of Investigation. resources or worker representatives. Any work-related concerns about corruption or misconduct can be We have a strong commitment to manage with our stakeholders with regard to tax, reported to the IKEA Group Trust line. our operations in a responsible way and to based on trust and transparency. We do our Anti-corruption In FY16, the Trust line was available 24/7 online and contribute to the societies where we operate. utmost to ensure that our tax statements The principles of transparency and fairness are key are true, timely and transparent. by phone in local languages across 44 countries. When We want to create long-term value through values of IKEA. Corruption is contradictory to the an issue is raised, Trust line managers evaluate it and growth, customer experience and a positive In FY16, IKEA Group corporate income tax objective of doing good business. It damages the escalate to Human Resources or Risk managers where impact on people and the planet. Over was EUR 1.2 billion globally, which equals an confidence our co-workers, suppliers, customers and appropriate. In FY16, we rolled out the Trust line to the years, IKEA Group has had a good effective corporate income tax rate of 21.6% other stakeholders have in us. We do not tolerate the United Arab Emirates. We aim to make it available development and created tens of thousands (18.9% in FY15). In FY16, our total tax bill, corruption of any kind. Anyone acting on behalf of IKEA to third parties, such as suppliers and shopping centre of jobs directly in our stores and warehouses including other taxes and duties amounted Group must not engage in corrupt practices, such as tenants towards the end of FY17. and indirectly at our external suppliers to approximately EUR 1.9 billion. Over the accepting or offering kickbacks or loans. In FY16, we completed an extensive risk-mapping exercise across In FY16, the Trust line received 165 reported incidents, which in turn generate taxable incomes. We last five years (FY12–FY16), corporate the business, including finance, industry, property, 33 were investigated, of which 6 were allegations continuously invest throughout our business income tax and other taxes amounted retail, supply and IKEA centres. relating to corruption. We did not investigate concerns in stores, shopping centres, distribution, to approximately EUR 7.7 billion. that were considered out of scope, as they did not renewable energy and lower prices to In addition, we collected substantial tax include IKEA co-workers, or there was not enough customers. amounts on behalf of governments, such information available to substantiate the matter. We pay our taxes in compliance with national as VAT and employee taxes. and international tax rules and regulations in a responsible and sustainable way. We enter into and maintain long-term relationships GOVERNANCE AND ETHICS About IKEA Group | Sustainability governance and management | Business ethics | Taxes | Public policy and advocacy 85 PUBLIC POLICY AND ADVOCACY Approach At the end of FY16, we piloted the Public Affairs plan in China, France, Germany, India, Poland, We have big ambitions to become people and Russia, Sweden and the USA. In FY16, our planet positive. Acting alone, we cannot achieve engagement efforts in these countries contributed transformational change; it is by taking a clear to making some important progress. stand on important issues and engaging in dialogue that we can have a much wider impact. n T he team at IKEA Retail India has started discussions with national and local authorities We participate in public policy debates and work and stakeholders ahead of the opening of with NGOs, governments and other businesses to our first Indian store, located in the city of achieve our ambitions. Hyderabad. Their initiative – IKEA meets Four key areas of action Hyderabad – has consisted of a series of meetings and forums with stakeholders at both Our Public Affairs Plan focuses on four key areas the store and state level, covering topics such of action: as customer expectations, sustainability and n O  ur contribution to investments and gender equality. growth in society. We explain how our growth, n I KEA Retail Poland Country Retail Manager, expansion and investment plans bring value to In the lead up to and during Evelyn Higler, was invited to present our COP21 IN PARIS 2015, society at large and environmental solutions. climate and sustainability ambitions to the Vice IKEA Group played an active n P  roduct market requirements. We are President of the European Commission, Maroš role in advocating for a low carbon economy. working on product safety, standardisation, Šefčovič, along with several other leading chemical requirements, labelling and companies. We have since been invited to communication for consumers, and healthy, become a corporate energy ambassador to the safe and sustainable food. European Commission, to share our experiences and advocate for wider support for investment Advocacy the UN Global Compact’s Caring for Climate n P  eople & Planet Positive. We advocate for Business Forum. We are creating momentum on in renewables. In FY16, we engaged with local, national and change in society that benefits people and the climate action by encouraging other companies to planet, including policies that tackle climate n T he Chinese government has proposed new regional governments on a range of issues. Our set goals that contribute to a low carbon economy. change and unlock the business innovation and chemical requirements on emission limits and main public policy activities focused on: We helped establish both We Mean Business investment needed to accelerate the transition testing, which deviate from the international Climate change which our Chief Sustainability Officer (CSO) coto a low-carbon economy. standards without adding value to the health chairs and RE100. In the lead up to COP21, at and safety of our customers. We take product Strong policies and leadership are needed to n I  KEA as a great place to work. We will show the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change safety seriously, and have been working mitigate the worst impacts of climate change. what we do as a responsible employer while (UNFCCC) in Bonn in 2015, IKEA Group and the together with key industry organisations, We are committed to using our influence and also responding to customers’ expectations and IKEA Foundation committed a total of EUR 1 billion the European Commission and the Swedish advocating for action. needs. We will strive for co-worker relations for climate action. In FY16 we registered our government to voice our concerns and invite that reflect our values, with equality and human In 2015, world leaders gathered in Paris at COP21 commitments for climate action with the Non-State China to bring its proposals for discussion. rights as top priorities. to make bold commitments to tackle climate Actor Zone for Climate Action (NAZCA). NAZCA We aim to ensure that health and consumer change. In the lead up to and during COP21, we aims to track what companies, states and investors protection are put at the centre of the played an active role in advocating for a loware doing to implement the Paris Agreement. Find discussion. carbon economy. Our President and CEO, Peter out more about our approach to tackling climate Agnefjäll, spoke at many events in Paris, including change on page 13. GOVERNANCE AND ETHICS About IKEA Group | Sustainability governance and management | Business ethics | Taxes | Public policy and advocacy 86 Equality Only in this way can we drive sustainable growth. SIMONA SCARPALEGGIA, IKEA We are using our influence and outreach to We believe that everyone should have access Retail Switzerland Country Retail Manager, co-chairs the first UN advocate for this shift in approach. to equal opportunities, whoever they are and wherever they come from. Equality is fundamental Secretary General’s High-Level In FY16, we joined a coalition supporting a circular Panel on Women's Economic to achieving sustainable development. And our Empowerment. economy, called CE8. Together with Michelin, Chief Sustainability Officer, Steve Howard, took a Phillips, Unilever, DSM, Suez, Tetra Pak and stand for equality at the launch of the Sustainable Umicore, we are advocating for changes to the Development Goals in September 2015. European Union’s Circular Economy Package. The package aims to help European businesses IKEA Retail Switzerland Country Retail Manager, and consumers transition to a stronger and more Simona Scarpaleggia, was invited to co-chair the circular economy. first UN Secretary General’s High-Level Panel on Women's Economic Empowerment promoted by But we need more support from the EU that UN Women. Simona has been at the forefront will allow us to continue to invest in the circular of women’s empowerment, founding and economy. In a letter addressed to all member leading several groups that promote women in states of the EU, the coalition called for an EU management positions. Simona’s position as chair regulatory framework that contributes to: is a great opportunity for IKEA to contribute to n s  ecuring access to primary materials via the United Nations 2030 Agenda and share our sustainable sourcing and bio-based raw principles on how businesses can drive a positive materials change in society by supporting equal rights. Find out more about our approach to supporting n s  timulating demand and supply for quality STEVE HOWARD, IKEA Group equality on page 53. CSO, addressing the Business & Secondary Raw Materials while ensuring a fair Climate Summit in London, and competitive business environment Transport June 2016. n s  timulating innovation for services and higher Road transport accounts for a fifth of Europe’s resource utilisation at component and product carbon emissions. In FY16, we joined an alliance levels. of companies including Philips and Nestlé, calling We often organise various stakeholder events. on the European Union to pass new laws to cut One key event in FY16 with the CE8 coalition truck and trailer emissions within two years, in explored sustainable production and consumption, order to meet promises made at the Paris climate and was opened by the European Commission’s conference. Vice-President, Jyrki Katainen. We also held an We also engaged with the United States event with the Retail Forum for Sustainability and Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) alongside Retailers’ Environmental Action Programme (REAP) fleet owners, investors and other shippers, to which focused on circular thinking in the retail encourage stronger emissions standards for sector. medium and heavy-duty vehicles. In 2017, the In FY16, our Chief Sustainability Officer, Steve EPA will phase in new emissions standards, Howard, spoke about circular economy in a number decreasing greenhouse gases by reducing the fuel of high-profile events, including Fortune Brainstorm consumption of medium and heavy-duty vehicles E – Fortune magazine’s energy, technology, and operating in North America. sustainability summit. We continued to work with other businesses through the Circular Economy Circular economy 100 (CE100) and the Ellen MacArthur Foundation. We believe that in a world with limited resources, To find out more about how we are supporting the we must move away from a linear take, make, shift to a circular economy, see page 23. waste approach, to a circular use of resources. GOVERNANCE AND ETHICS About IKEA Group | Sustainability governance and management | Business ethics | Taxes | Public policy and advocacy 87 ABOUT OUR REPORTING ABOUT OUR REPORTING About our reporting | UNGC Index | Our contribution to the SDGs | Performance against targets | Assurance statement 88 ABOUT OUR REPORTING THE REPORT The primary unit used in energy reporting is MWh. Carbon emissions from own operations and tier OUR PRIORITIES Learning from stakeholders We learn a lot from our stakeholders. We engage 1 suppliers are typically calculated based on Scope Deciding what matters with customers, suppliers, NGOs and other real measured energy and fuel usage, while businesses to get feedback on our sustainability This Sustainability Report updates stakeholders models and estimations are used to assess value We focus our efforts and reporting according to performance and direction. And we partner with on our progress against the objectives set out in chain impacts. the three change drivers of our People & Planet organisations to increase our positive impact our People & Planet Positive Strategy, and KPIs Positive strategy. We calculate our energy and carbon footprint (see page 84). relating to other IKEA strategies, where necessary. in accordance with the GHG Protocol Corporate The strategy considers our full value chain, We are ambitious in our objectives, which means We take a strategic approach to engaging Standard using the operational control stretching across three change drivers (see that sometimes there are setbacks and sometimes stakeholders. Following our extensive consolidation approach, and it is externally page 9). It is framed within, and is a reaction to, we make mistakes. We are open about these stakeholder mapping exercise in FY15, assured (see page 96). However, the data may be the external megatrends that our world is facing. challenges and dedicated to doing what is required we identified the most critical people and affected by uncertainties in scientific knowledge All three change drivers are critical to becoming to get back on track. organisations to engage with. In FY16, we or in the contextual data used in calculations, a more sustainable business within this context, supported countries in mapping stakeholders The information in this report covers the financial especially for Scope 3. We use emission factors and to achieving our vision “to create a better at a local level. We continued to engage with year 2016 (FY16) from 1 September 2015 to 31 from publically available sources like DEFRA (2015) everyday life for the many people”. our stakeholders throughout the year and ran a August 2016, unless otherwise stated. Data from and IEA (2015), and from local electricity and In developing the strategy, we consulted with stakeholder engagement forum in Sweden with the IKEA Foundation applies to the calendar year heat suppliers. In some cases, data is estimated, stakeholders across our business and externally, over 80 opinion leaders from NGOs and policy from 1 January 2016 to 31 December 2016, unless which is indicated in the text. Scope 2 emissions to identify the most important areas. For making. otherwise stated. are calculated in accordance with the GHG Protocol example, we use many different raw materials Scope 2 Guidance applying both the market and Our dedicated People & Planet Advisory Group, This report covers all wholly owned companies for IKEA products, all of which have an impact location based approaches. established in 2013, is a group of NGOs and in the IKEA Group during FY16. In September on the environment in some way. Together with partners who provide valuable insights to help 2016 (beginning of FY17) IKEA range, supply and We aim to ensure all information and data is an external organisation, we analysed our value us improve and develop our People & Planet production activities were transferred from IKEA relevant, transparent, consistent, accurate and chain and purchasing volumes for each material Positive strategy. The Advisory Group did not Group to Inter IKEA Group (see page 83). For the complete, and that it provides an objective picture to assess where we can have the greatest meet in FY16 as the meeting was postponed to first time, this report includes IKEA Centres, our of IKEA Group’s operations. Data for IKEA stores impact. The two biggest materials are wood and early FY17. new global shopping centre organisation, which not owned by the IKEA Group, but by other cotton. This is where we focus our efforts and became part of IKEA Group during FY15. franchisees (see page 83), is not covered within the aim to have a positive impact both in our own In April 2016, we held a stakeholder roundtable scope of this report. Information and data on the supply chain and beyond in the wider industry. event in London, UK, to gain feedback on our In FY16, we opened 12 new stores and 19 PickIKEA catalogue is provided by Inter IKEA Systems There are many other materials across our value FY15 Sustainability Report. We gathered a group up and Order Points, and we now own 45 centres B.V. Any other exclusions are stated in the report. chain, some of which are critical to the health of of peers, partners and experts and asked them across 11 countries (see page 41). IKEA Industry the planet, and we include these in our strategy about the format of the report, its content and began operations in one new factory in Russia and and reporting. the interpretation of performance. Overall, the sold a unit in Latvia. Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) report was well received, but that does not We regularly update our strategy to reflect the We use the Global Reporting Initiative guidelines mean that there is no room for improvement. latest developments and ensure that we always Data to inform our reporting, though we do not report The stakeholders asked for more information maintain a strategic focus. We do this through IKEA Group's reporting and data collection against the guidelines. We are inspired by the GRI's on how materiality is decided, more challenging our own expertise in the topic areas, and by processes involve many internal and external G4 focus on materiality and reporting of impacts stakeholder input, and improved navigation to listening to others. In FY17 our business will stakeholders. The majority of data is collected across the value chain. We align with this approach guide the reader. We have used this feedback to change (see page 83). We are determined to from primary sources and entered into reporting by focusing our reporting on our People & Planet develop our FY16 report. maintain a strong commitment to sustainability systems. Energy-related information is usually Positive strategy, which covers our material impacts throughout our value chain. obtained from real-time meters at each site, across the value chain. from invoices or from transport providers. ABOUT OUR REPORTING About our reporting | UNGC Index | Our contribution to the SDGs | Performance against targets | Assurance statement 89 THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT INDEX We are a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact, a set of 10 principles in the areas of human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. The UN Global Compact reference table (below) shows our progress regarding the 10 principles. UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT (UNGC) PRINCIPLES LOCATION IN FY16 REPORT Human rights Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed n Respecting and supporting human rights, page 68 human rights; and Principle 2 make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. n Respecting and supporting human rights, page 68 n Better lives for workers in our supply chain, page 60 Labour Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of n Better lives for our co-workers, page 54 the right to collective bargaining; n Better lives for workers in our supply chain, page 60 n Respecting and supporting human rights, page 68 Principle 4 the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; n Respecting and supporting human rights, page 68 n Better lives for workers in our supply chain, page 60 Principle 5 the effective abolition of child labour; and n Responsible sourcing, page 24 n Respecting and supporting human rights, page 68 n Better lives for workers in our supply chain, page 60 n Better lives for our co-workers, page 54 Principle 6 the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. n Better lives for our co-workers, page 54 n Respecting and supporting human rights, page 68 n Better lives for workers in our supply chain, page 60 Environment Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; n Resource and energy independence, page 22 Principle 8 undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and n A more sustainable life at home, page 12 Principle 9 encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. n Responsible sourcing, page 24 n Respecting and supporting human rights, page 68 n More sustainable operations, page 41 n Better lives for workers in our supply chain, page 60 n Better lives for our co-workers, page 54 Anti-corruption Principle 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and n Business ethics, page 85 bribery. ABOUT OUR REPORTING About our reporting | UNGC Index | Our contribution to the SDGs | Performance against targets | Assurance statement 90 OUR CONTRIBUTION TO THE SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS We support the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) in their ambition to achieve a better world for all. As a global business, we have a role to play in contributing to achieving the SDGs. Many of our People & Planet Positive targets contribute to several of the SDGs. Find out more about our approach on page 10, and how we contribute to each of the goals in the table below. SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOAL PEOPLE & PLANET POSITIVE STRATEGY WHAT IKEA GROUP IS DOING End poverty in all its forms everywhere Our vision is to create a better everyday life for the many people. We are n Contributing to better lives for people and communities throughout our value chain, page 52 committed to having a positive influence on people’s lives across our value n Working with social entrepreneurs to effect social change, page 74 chain; supporting positive economic, social and environmental development, promoting equality and placing respect for human rights at the centre of what we do. End hunger, achieve food security We aim to enable and encourage a more balanced and healthy diet, and n Responsible sourcing of ingredients for IKEA Food products, and promoting sustainable farming practices, and improved nutrition and promote we strive to source our ingredients from more sustainable sources that page 31 sustainable agriculture are better for people and the planet n Offering healthier and more sustainable food products for our customers and co-workers, page 15 Ensure healthy lives and promote We want to inspire and enable our customers to live a more sustainable n Promoting and enabling a more sustainable and healthy life at home through our products and solutions, well-being for all at all ages and healthy life at home. page 15 Ensure inclusive and equitable We offer our co-workers excellent learning and development opportunities in n Launching a new way of working with talent, succession and learning for all co-workers, page 57 quality education and promote their daily work. Our global campaigns for a good cause, such as Soft Toys lifelong learning opportunities for all for Education and Let’s Play for Change, engage customers and co-workers to improve children’s lives. Achieve gender equality and We want to create a fairer and more equal society. Starting in our own n The IKEA Group Diversity and Inclusion Approach guides our leaders in creating a diverse and inclusive empower all women and girls operations, our goal is to reach gender balance in key leadership positions. workplace, page 56 n Supporting more women into leadership positions through the IKEA Women's Open Network (IWON), page 56 n Launching the IKEA Group Gender Equality Plan, page 56  Partnering with social enterprises that employ artisans – mostly women who live in rural areas – n and empowering them to develop sustainable incomes, page 74 ABOUT OUR REPORTING About our reporting | UNGC Index | Our contribution to the SDGs | Performance against targets | Assurance statement 91 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOAL PEOPLE & PLANET POSITIVE STRATEGY WHAT IKEA GROUP IS DOING Ensure availability and sustainable We aim to become water positive by promoting water stewardship n Supporting our suppliers to improve their water management and water treatment practices, page 38 management of water and sanitation throughout our value chain. We contribute to improved water management n Reducing the amount of water we use in our own operations, page 49 for all in water stressed areas where we operate, focusing on both water use and water quality, and improving access to clean water. n Developing products that enable customers to reduce water use, page 17 n Working with WWF on water projects in India and Pakistan, page 30 Ensure access to affordable, reliable, We will become energy independent by being a leader in renewable n Invested EUR 1.5 billion in renewable energy since 2009, and committed another EUR 600 million sustainable and modern energy for all energy and improving energy efficiency in our operations. By August 2020, in 2015. By 2020, we aim to generate renewable energy equivalent to all the energy we use, page 43 we will produce as much renewable energy as we consume in n Making residential solar panels affordable for our customers, page 16 our operations. n Improving energy efficiency in our own operations, page 45 Promote sustained, inclusive and We contribute to a better life for the people and communities across our n Employing 163,600 co-workers around the world (page 54), and stimulating employment for millions of sustainable economic growth, value chain, from supporting decent work throughout our supply chain, people throughout our extended supply chain, page 60 full and productive employment to being a great place to work for our own co-workers. n Improving environmental and social standards in our supply chain through IWAY, our supplier code of and decent work for all conduct, including respect for human rights and promoting safety and health at work, page 60 n Assessing wages against the cost of living and extending our approach to suppliers, page 69 n Improving working conditions for migrant workers and home-based workers, pages 72 and 73  Promoting a diverse and inclusive workplace for all through the IKEA Group Diversity and Inclusion n Approach, IKEA Women’s Open Network, IKEA LGBT+ project and Diversity & Inclusion Network, page 56 n Partnering with social enterprises who employ vulnerable groups, so they can create independent and sustainable incomes, page 74 Build resilient infrastructure, Sustainability drives innovation and transformational change across our n Working with our suppliers to improve resource and energy efficiency, page 38 promote inclusive and sustainable business, from factories and farms, to stores, customers’ homes and our n Investing in sustainable technology and innovation throughout our supply chain, page 41 industrialisation and foster innovation products’ end of life. Reduce inequality within and among We want to create a more equal world for the people and communities n Respecting human rights, including specific groups in our extended supply chain, such as migrant workers, countries our business reaches. And we support children, vulnerable groups and home workers and social entrepreneurs, page 68 communities to build a better everyday life. n Assessing wages against the cost of living and extending our approach to suppliers, page 69 n Working to secure children’s rights across our entire value chain, page 70 ABOUT OUR REPORTING About our reporting | UNGC Index | Our contribution to the SDGs | Performance against targets | Assurance statement 92 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOAL PEOPLE & PLANET POSITIVE STRATEGY WHAT IKEA GROUP IS DOING Make cities and human settlements We take a lead, together with our customers and others in society, in n Reducing waste, increasing the amount we recycle (page 50) and encouraging customers to inclusive, safe, resilient and sustainable re-thinking the nature of future homes and communities to enable recycle through awareness raising and our products and solutions, pages 17 and 19 attractive, affordable and sustainable living. n Developing products and solutions to enable and inspire people to create a more sustainable life at home, page 12 Ensure sustainable consumption and We strive to make all our home furnishing materials either renewable, n Using renewable, recycled and recyclable materials in our products, page 34 production patterns recyclable or recycled. We take a lead in turning waste into resources. n Converting to a circular economy, page 23 We will develop reverse material flows for waste material, ensure key parts of our range are easily recycled, and take a stand for a closed loop society. n Creating products that enable sustainable living, and inspiring our co-workers and customers to live more sustainable lives at home, page 12 Take urgent action to combat climate We are going all-in to tackle climate change, for example by committing to n Going all-in to tackle climate change across our value chain, pages 13 and 42 change and its impacts produce as much renewable energy as we consume in our operations by n Advocating for strong policies on climate change and supporting the transition to a low-carbon economy, 2020, and switching our entire lighting range to LED. We are joining with page 86 others to take a stand and call for positive change, and inspiring others, including our customers, to take action. n Improving the sustainability of our operations, for example by producing more renewable energy and improving energy efficiency, page 41 n Creating products and solutions to enable our customers to live a more sustainable life at home, page 12 Conserve and sustainably We promote sustainable fisheries and aquaculture by sourcing our fish n Sourcing the fish and seafood for our bistros, restaurants and Swedish Food Markets responsibly, from use the oceans, seas and marine and seafood from responsible sources. ASC or MSC sources, page 32 resources for sustainable development Protect, restore and promote sustainable We take a lead in the responsible sourcing of raw materials. All of the n Sourcing our key raw materials, like cotton and wood, from more sustainable sources, page 24 use of terrestrial ecosystems, sustainably cotton and 61% of the wood we use now comes from more sustainable n Using only FSC certified paper to produce our catalogue – the world’s largest print run ever to be produced manage forests, combat desertification, sources. using 100% FSC certified paper, page 40 halt and reverse land degradation and halt biodiversity loss Promote peaceful and We want to create a better life for the people and communities impacted n Supporting human rights (page 68), and creating a better everyday life for the many people and inclusive societies for sustainable by our business. Through our Code of Conduct and our supplier Code of communities across our value chain, page 52 development, provide access to justice Conduct, IWAY, we promote ethical and sustainable business practices n Ensuring an ethical approach to the way we do business, through our Code of Conduct, page 85 for all and build effective, accountable throughout our value chain. and inclusive institutions at all levels Strengthen the means of implementation By building collaborations and partnerships with other companies, n Partnering with organisations to extend our impact beyond our own business across many areas, from and revitalise the global partnership for suppliers, NGOs and UN bodies, we work towards becoming people and climate change to migrant workers, page 84 sustainable development planet positive and contributing to change in society.  Partnering with others to take clear positions on the issues that matter most, and advocating for stronger n climate policy, the transition to a low-carbon economy, sustainable forestry, resource efficiency and waste management, page 86 ABOUT OUR REPORTING About our reporting | UNGC Index | Our contribution to the SDGs | Performance against targets | Assurance statement 93 PERFORMANCE AGAINST TARGETS ENABLING CHANGE Commitments Goals FY15 FY16 Enabling change throughout our business to By August 2017, 95% of IKEA co-workers state that “sustainability is a natural part of the everyday work”. 79%1 78%2 become people and planet positive. By August 2017, at least 95% of co-workers view IKEA as a company that takes social and environmental 82%1 83%2 responsibility.3 By August 2015, 70% of customers view IKEA as a company that takes social and environmental responsibility.4 41% 43% A MORE SUSTAINABLE LIFE AT HOME Commitments Goals FY15 FY16 Take the lead in developing and promoting By August 2020, achieve more than a fourfold increase in sales from products and solutions inspiring and enabling EUR 1,311 million EUR 1,802 million products and solutions that enable customers to customers to live a more sustainable life at home.5 (51% of target sales) (70% of target sales) live a more sustainable life at home. Take a lead in more sustainable food by enabling and encouraging a balanced diet. See page 15 RESOURCE AND ENERGY INDEPENDENCE Commitments Goals FY15 FY16 Strive for resource independence; securing By August 2017, at least 50% of our wood will come from more sustainable sources. By August 2020, we aim to 50% 61% long term access to sustainable raw materials, source 100% of our wood, paper and cardboard from more sustainable sources.6 ensuring a positive impact on the communities where we source and using resources within the By August 2015, all cotton used in IKEA products will be sourced from more sustainable sources7 and we will 100% 100% limits of the planet. continuously investigate complementary fibres with improved sustainability performance compared to cotton. By August 2020, 90% of the total sales value will come from home furnishing products classified as more 54% 55% sustainable.8 By August 2015, all our main home furnishing materials, including packaging, will be either made from renewable, 98%9 Approx. 98%9 recyclable (in at least one market on an industrial scale) or recycled materials. 1 R  esults are based on the VOICE survey of 112,027 co-workers. Results are not directly comparable between 4 Based on response to the Brand Capital survey. 7 I ncludes cotton grown to the Better Cotton Standard; by farmers working towards Better Cotton; recycled cotton years as different parts of IKEA and different numbers of people participate. 5 A  fourfold increase corresponds to sales of approximately 2.6 billion euro per year, as of FY20 with baseline and more sustainable cotton from the USA (such as the ‘e3 Cotton Program’). 2 R  esults are based on the VOICE survey of 74,523 co-workers. Results are not directly comparable between year FY13. 8 Through the sustainability product scorecard. years as different parts of IKEA and different numbers of people participate. 6 Currently defined as FSC® certified or recycled wood. 9 This is an estimate. For more information, see page 35. 3 Measured through the VOICE question “I am proud of the way IKEA works with sustainability” and Brand Capital. ABOUT OUR REPORTING About our reporting | UNGC Index | Our contribution to the SDGs | Performance against targets | Assurance statement 94 RESOURCE AND ENERGY INDEPENDENCE (Continued) Commitments Goals FY15 FY16 Strive towards energy independence through Become 20% more energy efficient in our own operations by August 2015 and 30% by August 2020, compared to Retail: 14.6% Retail: 15.5% being a leader in renewable energy, and FY10.10 Distribution centres: 26.8% Distribution centres: 28.6% becoming more energy efficient throughout our operations and supply chain. IKEA Components : 48% 11 IKEA Components11: 48.3% IKEA Industry Group Divisions IKEA Industry Group Divisions Flatline and Solid Wood: 12.6% Flatline and Solid Wood: 14% IKEA Industry Group Division IKEA Industry Division Board: Board: 4.7% 1.4% By August 2020, on Group level, produce as much renewable energy as we consume.12 53% 71%13 BETTER LIFE FOR PEOPLE AND COMMUNITIES Commitments Goals FY15 FY16 Contribute to better lives for workers by Maintain the social and environmental improvements reached through the 100% IWAY approval of all suppliers of Home furnishing suppliers: 98.9% Home furnishing suppliers: 97% supporting decent work throughout our supply home furnishing and other key products and services.14 Transportation suppliers: 96% Land transport suppliers: 90%15 chain. Global food suppliers: 55% Centrally contracted customer IKEA Components suppliers: delivery service providers: 86% 99.2% Global food suppliers: 63% IKEA Components suppliers: 97% By August 2015, expand the reach of our supplier Code of Conduct by securing IWAY approval at all local IKEA Food, IMS suppliers: 87% IMS suppliers: 84% Indirect Material and Services (IMS) and retail suppliers within the scope of IWAY.16 Retail: 85% Retail suppliers: 87% Food suppliers: We are working to map local food suppliers By August 2017, go further into our supply chain by securing compliance to IWAY Musts17 at all sub-suppliers of 92% 99% critical materials and processes. Develop and implement a transparent and reliable system for the responsible recruitment of migrant workers at first See page 72 tier suppliers in identified critical areas by August 2017. Continuously identify and develop setups for home-based workers to improve working conditions, protect labour See page 73 rights and prevent child labour. By August 2020, all home-based workers are transitioned into improved setups and part of our handmade development programme. 10 C  ompared to FY10 in relative terms, measured by KWh/m2 for retail operations and kWh/m3 purchased goods 13 E  xcluding shopping centres. With shopping centres we produced 61% 16 F  or the retail operations, the current IWAY focus is on cleaning, home delivery, security and waste management for trading operations. Not including IKEA Centres, which were not part of our operations in the base year, 14 Suppliers related to Home Furnishing, IKEA Components, Transport & Services, and Global Food. suppliers. IKEA Industry also now has a set of phased goals for the application of IWAY – see page 67. FY10. 17 IWAY Musts are the immediate requirements that IKEA suppliers must meet before a contract can be signed. 15 E  xcludes ocean transport providers. A new approach to IWAY in ocean transportation is currently being 11 Baseline year: FY13 developed and audits were consequently postponed in FY16. 12 Own operations relate to distribution centres, stores, offices, IKEA Industry Group factories. ABOUT OUR REPORTING About our reporting | UNGC Index | Our contribution to the SDGs | Performance against targets | Assurance statement 95 ASSURANCE STATEMENT ASSURANCE REPORT OF THE INDEPENDENT AUDITOR WITH RESPECT TO THE CARBON FOOTPRINT FY16 To: The shareholders and supervisory board Gas Protocol – Revised edition (WRI/WBCSD). gathering of evidence as in engagements n S  ite visits to review the data collection of IKEA Group (Ingka Holding B.V. and its We deem these reporting criteria suitable for our focused on reasonable assurance. The performed methods, source data and relevant controlled entities) assurance engagement. procedures consisted primarily of making inquiries assumptions applicable to the sites by of management and others within the entity, as interviewing relevant staff responsible for We have performed assurance procedures on the Management’s responsibility appropriate, applying analytical procedures and providing the data to be reported in the Carbon Footprint FY16 (year ending 31 August evaluating the evidence obtained. Consequently Carbon Footprint 2016) from the Scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions of The management of IKEA Group is responsible an engagement aimed at limited assurance the activities of IKEA Group, for the period for the preparation of the Carbon Footprint in n E  valuating the overall presentation of the provides less assurance than an engagement 1 September up to and including 31 August 2016 accordance with the criteria developed by the Carbon Footprint aimed at reasonable assurance. (hereinafter: Carbon Footprint). This Carbon entity, as disclosed in the section “About Our We believe that the evidence we have obtained is Footprint is reported in the Sustainability Report Reporting” in the Sustainability Report FY16. sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for FY16 of IKEA Group. This responsibility includes the design, Procedures performed our conclusion. implementation and maintenance of internal Our main procedures included the following: Limitations in our scope control relevant to the preparation of the Carbon Footprint in accordance with the criteria that is n E  valuating whether the reporting criteria Conclusion Carbon Footprint quantification is inherently developed by the entity are suitable for the free from material misstatement, whether due to Based on our procedures performed, and with subject to uncertainty due to the use of preparation of the Carbon Footprint and have fraud or error. due consideration of the limitations described variables such as emissions factors that are been consistently applied in the paragraph Limitations in our scope, used in mathematical models to calculate CO2 n E  valuating the reasonableness of the nothing has come to our attention that causes emissions, and the inability of those models to Auditor’s responsibility (accounting) estimates made by management us to conclude that the Carbon Footprint FY16 precisely characterize under all circumstances Our responsibility is to express a conclusion with (year ending 31 August 2016) is not prepared, the relationships between various inputs and n O  btaining an understanding of the control a limited level of assurance on the CO2 emissions in all material respects, in accordance with the the resultant emissions because of incomplete environment and information systems relevant from Scope 1, 2 and 3 based on the procedures criteria developed by IKEA Group as disclosed scientific knowledge on this topic. to emissions quantification and reporting, performed and the evidence obtained. We in the section “About Our Reporting” in the including the design of particular control No assurance engagement was performed on the conducted our limited assurance engagement in Sustainability Report FY16. activities such as consolidating data at information of the Carbon Footprint for the period accordance with Dutch law, including the Dutch corporate level before FY16 that is presented in the sustainability Auditing Standard 3410, “Assurance engagements Report. We therefore do not provide assurance on n E  valuating the plausibility of the CO2 emission on emission reports”. This requires that we the corresponding Carbon Footprint information data, mainly by: comply with ethical requirements, including Rotterdam, 2 December 2016 for the period before FY16. requirements relating to our independence, and – performing analytical reviews of the data and Ernst & Young Accountants LLP that we plan and perform this engagement to trend explanations Signed by R.T.H. Wortelboer obtain limited assurance about whether the CO2 –  reconciliation of the data with underlying Criteria emissions from Scope 1, 2 and 3 as presented data systems and where relevant on a test IKEA Group has defined criteria to determine its in the Carbon Footprint are free from material basis with internal and external documentation Carbon Footprint. These criteria are described misstatement. that are the basis for the (calculation of the) in the section “About Our Reporting” in the CO2 emission data The procedures performed in obtaining limited Sustainability Report FY16. The criteria have been assurance are aimed on the plausibility of developed in accordance with the Greenhouse information which does not require exhaustive ABOUT OUR REPORTING About our reporting | UNGC Index | Our contribution to the SDGs | Performance against targets | Assurance statement 96 READ THE IKEA GROUP YEARLY SUMMARY Find out what happened in IKEA Group in FY16 – get facts, read stories and see where we're headed in the future. PEOPLE & PLANET POSITIVE Visit the People & Planet Positive section of IKEA.com IKEA FOUNDATION Discover what the IKEA Foundation is doing to improve the lives of children around the world.
