20 Responsibility 2016 Annual Non-Financial Report 2016 Toms Gruppen A/S Toms Group A/S Page 2 Responsibility 2016 About this report Contents This report represents the corporate social responsibility statement A welcome from our CEO describing how we 04 Letter from the CEO view our social responsibility here at Toms. for Toms Group A/S as required by sections 99a and 99b of the Danish Financial Statements Act. The report also represents our Communication on We disclose our operating and financial results Progress 2016 on the ten principles of the UN Global in the Annual Report, which can be downloaded Our continued efforts to improve and ensure Compact regarding human rights, labour standards, the at tomsgroup.com the livelihoods of cocoa farmers in Ghana and 06 Human Rights environment and anti-corruption. With this report we enhance sustainability throughout the industry. reaffirm our support of these principles by describing In this report, “Toms Group A/S”, “Toms Confectionery our actions to continually improve the integration of the Group”, “Toms Gruppen”, “Toms” and “the Company” are principles into our business, culture and daily operations. used interchangeably in referring to Toms Gruppen A/S consolidated with its subsidiaries. For more information about the UN Guiding Principles, How we work to ensure a healthy, safe and see: www.unglobalcompact.org Responsibility 2016 was adopted as part of the Annual stimulating work environment where our Reporting at the Annual General Meeting on 24 March employees thrive in an environment of mutual 12 Labour Reporting scope and composition 2017 and was published by Toms Group A/S digitally respect and understanding of the strength of diversity. Responsibility 2016 summarises the activities of Toms in English on 28 March 2017 and can be downloaded at Group A/S during 2016. It does not cover local activities tomsgroup.com and results at our sites in Germany, Poland and Sweden. Our recent achievements in our continuous work for minimizing our energy consumption 18 Environment and climate and CO2 emissions, and how we work to making sustainable palm oil the norm. Toms Group A/S Ownership Toms Allé 1 Toms Group A/S is a fully owned subsidiary of Gerda & Victor B. Strand Holding A/S, Ballerup, Our different control mechanisms ensuring our DK-2750 Ballerup, Denmark Denmark. supply chain against corruption and in general 21 Anti-Corruption how we strive to ensure responsible business Tel. (+45) 4489 1000 practices with our suppliers and customers. Fax: (+45) 4489 1099 Design Web: www.tomsgroup.com Fireball E-mail: info@toms.dk Layout Company reg. (CVR) no.: 56759328 Tappert Reklame How we with systematic due diligence Established: 30 January 1924 processes take a critical look at ourselves and Translation 22 Final remark Registered office: Ballerup evaluate how we must continue our efforts Interpen Translation A/S towards sustainability in our entire value chain. Toms Group A/S Page 4 Responsibility 2016 Letter from the CEO Responsibility is at the heart and core of Toms and has been for decades. It is our firm belief that the ability to operate and develop our business sustainably, with respect to both people and the planet we all share, plays a significant role in pursuing and ensuring our continued growth and success. As the Danish market leader in the confectionery sector, Our actions in 2016 we have 1,200 employees, 1,300 suppliers, and cusThe following sections describe our approach, actions, tomers and consumers in more than 100 countries. We results and plans for each of these areas: also work with 5,000 cocoa farmers. All of this calls for a determined approach to operating our business in a • Our continued commitment to the cocoa farmers in responsible manner. Ghana, with whom, for 10 years now, we have cooperated to improve their cocoa production and the living We have a responsibility to all of them. Not only to conconditions of their families; tinue developing our long history of proud craftsmanship, visionary enterprise and good quality. We also have a • Our continued efforts to ensure a healthy, safe and responsibility to constantly fight for sustainability in the evolving working environment for our employees; developing cocoa industry and for responsibility in our value chain. • Our efforts to ensure that we operate and develop our business with respect to the environment; and finally We implemented a number of initiatives in 2016 which contribute to ensuring continued sustainable growth for • Our efforts to ensure integrity and high anti-corrupToms. As in previous years, we used the 10 principles of tion standards in the way we operate and develop the the UN Global Compact as a roadmap to guide us in this Company. work. As a consequence, this report is structured according to the four areas of the Global Compact: Human In 2017 we will maintain our efforts in these areas to Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. continue the sustainable development and growth of Toms. We look forward to receiving your feedback. Please send comments or questions to: info@toms.dk Our CSR Policy Our CSR policy sets the overall framework for our work with sustainability throughout our value chain. Read the full policy here. Carsten Lyngsø Thomsen Chief Executive Officer, Toms Group A/S Toms Group A/S Page 6 Responsibility 2016 HUMAN RIGHTS Toms Group A/S Page 8 Responsibility 2016 Human Rights “We are committed to developing a corporate culture and general conduct that embrace respect and support for human rights and seek to avoid any adverse human rights impacts through our activities and business relationships.” This is an extract from our human rights policy, which The policy and our declared support for these internauses both to ensure traceability down to each village and The farmers we completed in 2015. It describes our continued suptional standards are formal ways of highlighting our to improve farmers’ living conditions. We know from our experience in earlier projects that the port of the principles contained in the United Nations approach to the people directly or indirectly affected by key to achieving sustainable and lasting results is to coUniversal Declaration of Human Rights as well as Toms. As specified in the letter from our CEO, we consider The latest project, which began in 2013, also had the operate closely with the farmers and train them respectthe fundamental labour principles that protect workers’ that Toms has a wide responsibility through our engageDanish retail company COOP as a partner. This project fully, taking into account their educational starting point rights, defined in the ILO Core Conventions. ment with employees, suppliers, customers, consumers was from start limited to three years but got the opporand natural scepticism towards new methods. – and not least the approx. 5,000 farmers who grow the tunity to be extended for one year due to unspent funds. cocoa beans for our chocolate. The project therefore ended at the end of 2016. 4,819 cocoa farmers, comprising all the farmers that Our Human Rights Policy we buy cocoa from in Ghana, took part in farmer trainWe believe our main responsibilities towards huBelow we describe our efforts to constantly live up to In cooperation with the cocoa farmers ing during 2016. The focus in 2016 was on soil fertility man rights concern non-discrimination, employee this responsibility and the way we constantly challenge In this project, we worked directly with the 96 farmers’ enhancement to help farmers improve their productivrights, occupational health and safety and the risk ourselves to do better and reach further. associations that we buy cocoa from and have traceability. With the help of demonstration plots, farmers were of human rights violations within our supply chain. ity to. The project has shown strong results proving that trained in how to identify soil deficiencies on their farm This is described in our policy for Human Rights, Our commitment it is indeed possible to make changes – if you have a and how to overcome these with the appropriate agriculwhich can be downloaded here. in Ghana humble, patient and especially persistent approach. tural practices. We have a long-standing engagement in our cocoa supply chain in Ghana with partners working to ensure We want to empower the farmers by not only helping Access to planting materials is key for ensuring that the The policy is consulted by our law firm a steady supply of quality cocoa and, sustainable living them here and now but also giving them the knowledge, farmers can rehabilitate their ageing farms in a timely which has validated that it complies with the UN Guiding Principles. conditions for the farmers – now and for future generaframework conditions and skills to take the lead in the manner before significant productivity decline. Over the tions. This has been in the core of our work on responsicontinued sustainable development of their own farms project period, 32 community cocoa seedling nurseries bility and sustainability for the last decade as a conseand communities. have been set up. To ensure lasting results, the focus in quence of the clear need for change which confronted 2016 has been also to train the farmers in the developus when we started our close corporation with the cocoa With this approach, the programme has focused on two ment and management of these community seedling farmers back in 2006. areas, described in more detail below: nurseries. Our partners • The farmers: improving productivity The achievement of higher productivity also depends We have done this in partnership with Danida, in charge on achieving a sustainable balance in the families, and of Denmark’s development work, and in cooperation • The children: combatting child labour and ensuring on the children getting an education and in general a with the organisation IBIS working for better education quality education prospect of better living conditions. Therefore our farmer and sustainable development around the world. training focus not only on good agricultural practices but Last but not least, the organisation Source Trust is an (In spring 2017, an independent validation agency will on social practices and gender issues as well. important partner in our cooperation in Ghana. Source have completed a comprehensive evaluation report of Trust is part of Ecom from whom we purchase the cocoa. the project’s results. We will share these on our website). We pay a premium for the beans, which Source Trust Toms Group A/S Page 10 Responsibility 2016 • Cocoa Livelihoods Program Continued partnership in 2017 Toms Foundation supports the WCF Cocoa Livelihoods Our latest Danida Business Partnership ended at year Program during the period 2014-2019. The WCF Cocoa end of 2016; accordingly, contributions from Danida and Livelihoods Program is working to increase farm level COOP to the activities in Ghana were discontinued. productivity of cocoa and food crops of 200,000 smallholder cocoa-growing households in Cameroon, Côte We will continue the projects with unchanged financial d’Ivoire, Ghana and Nigeria. commitment from Toms and the Toms Foundation and with continued active participation and overall project • Danish Ethical Trading Initiative management from our csr responsible. We will still focus Promotes ethical trade and responsible supply chain our efforts on the same districts and with the same farmanagement among Danish companies and public mers to continue our work for better productivity and institutions. living conditions and for preventing child labour and, as part of this, better education of the children. • CEN/ISO standard The European Committee for Standardization (CEN) We want to continue as many as possible of our current and the International Organization for Standardization projects, building on the strong results from the past pro(ISO) are driving the development of a joint standard jects. We are therefore strengthening the partnership for traceable and sustainable cocoa which can help with Source Trust in 2017, enabling them to take over aligning industry efforts and bring sustainably imparts of the project formerly led by IBIS. proved cocoa production into the mainstream. Toms has been an active participant in the development of For more information about our continued work in this standard from the beginning. The standard is foreGhana, please visit our website and follow our work casted to be finalised in 2017. from our LinkedIn profile. The children These committees are now independent, giving us the Starting our work in Ghana in 2006, it became clear that, possibility to continue our work in other societies. in order to safeguard the children in the cocoa societies, we needed not only to change the ethical norms for child Together we are stronger labour in the societies but also to build a real alternative Toms, alone, can only ensure sustainable living conditions to child labour. for a minor part of the worlds cocoa farmers and their families. Women Deliver At the start of the project, the lack of trained teachers In May 2016 we were an active partner in the Women and the lack of good school facilities were identified Ghana produces approx. 20 per cent of the world’s cocoa Deliver Conference in Copenhagen, setting spot on the as the main obstacles. During the project period, 180 – and Toms buys less than 0.5 per cent of the cocoa possibilities for companies to drive progress for women teachers including 30 headmasters have been trained in produced in Ghana. Changes covering the whole cocoa and girls around the world. As part of the conference, learn-centred pedagogy. Furthermore, the school manproduction industry require action by the leading cocoa the Confederation of Danish Industry (DI), together agements have been strengthened. and chocolate manufacturing companies and call for with Toms and other Danish companies, initiated the broad cooperation across the industry in different kinds development of a photo exhibition called Women Em30 schools have benefitted from a number of improveof associations. power Business, which highlighted the efforts made by ments such as renovation of classrooms, playground Danish companies to improve conditions for women equipment, re-roofing of classroom buildings and supply To fulfil our responsibility in making this happen, we and girls in their supply chains. of furniture and computer accessories to create a better actively take part in a range of national and international learning environment. cooperation initiatives: The exhibition has been on a nationwide tour around Denmark in 2016. The photos and the stories in the We have come a long way towards elimination of child • International Cocoa Initiative (ICI) exhibition are now gathered in the book Women labour. But we are not there yet. To make sure that the Works to improve the lives of children and contribute Empower Business, which was published at a reception impressive development in the societies will proceed in to the elimination of child labour in cocoa-growing attended by HRH Crown Princess Mary and Minister the years to come, we have trained three District Child communities and the cocoa supply chain. for Development Cooperation Ulla Tørnæs. Protection Committees, enabling children to have access to remedies from local authorities. • World Cocoa Foundation (WCF) Helps to achieve cocoa sustainability, supporting cocoa Read more about the Women Deliver organisation Locally, in 30 societies, groups of parents/farmers have communities, education, field programmes and scientiand the exhibition and photobook at di.dk (Danish website). also been trained in spotting child labour and in how fic research. to intervene and help get these children back to school. Toms Group A/S Page 12 Responsibility 2016 LABOUR Toms Group A/S Page 14 Responsibility 2016 Labour “We strive to be an inclusive workplace where each employee thrives For all the 14 parameters (including the drivers mentioned above), the survey showed a higher score than the In all recruitment processes for both employee and management positions, we always strive to have candidates and has the opportunity to develop. We believe in the importance of average Danish manufacturing company in the food and of the under-represented gender among the interviewour employees having a good work-life balance, and we also want to beverage industry. This is gratifying to see. But the value of the survey is first and foremost its ability to show us ees. Likewise, in general we also strive to maintain a diverse workforce in terms of other diversity parameters. support employees having a healthy and active life.” the areas where we can improve. In 2016 we therefore invested in a more nuanced survey system, which gives better opportunities to follow up on results and make Other examples of how we put the words in our This is from our Responsibility Policy where we detargeted efforts to enhance the working environment. diversity policy into actions are: scribe how we aim to make a positive contribution in Work environment in numbers everything we do. This is not least the case when it Rated on a scale of 0-100, the employees at our Social audit at our sugar factory • Career Development: Through personal performance comes to our 1,200 employees who, as the key to our two Danish factories gave Job satisfaction, MotiIn November 2016 we asked the international organisadialogues with each employee we evaluate annually long history and success, have developed Toms into the vation and Dedication a relatively high score. With tion Sedex to conduct a social audit at our sugar factory our employees’ needs for training and development. company we are today. scores of 72, 74 and 82, all of the three parameat Helseholmen, Hvidovre. The audit was a mandatory The purpose is to ensure a continued match between ters were rated higher than at an average Danish requirement from one of our Swedish customers. the employees’ competences and the future tasks and Below we describe how in 2016 we have continued our manufacturing company in the food and beverage responsibilities to be shouldered within the organisaefforts to ensure our employees’ health, security and industry. The audit, called SMETA 2, covered Labour standards, tion. opportunity to develop at Toms, respecting the necessary Job satisfaction Health and Safety, Environment and Business Ethics and work-life balance. resulted in no negative findings. For more information on • Language teaching: In addition to the training and edSedex and the SMETA audit, visit Sedexglobal.com ucational opportunities we offer our employees within Work environment survey their own specific job area, we offer teaching in Danish, Every year we conduct a systematic employee satisfacDiversity English or German to the employees who for various tion survey. We do this to highlight any challenges and We strongly believe that a diverse workforce improves our reasons need to be strengthened in one or more of potential for improvement of our work environment. 0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 performance, strengthens our competitiveness, and make these languages. Through the employees’ anonymous responses, the Toms a better place to work. survey measures how employees evaluate their work at Motivation • Systematic satisfaction surveys: Annual employee satisToms on a range of parameters covering job satisfacfaction surveys. (See details and results of recent survey tion, motivation and dedication as well as a number of in the former section ‘Work environment survey’). A matter of respect “drivers” for these: image, management, cooperation, job We are against all forms of discrimination and seek content, wages and working conditions, and opportuni• Flexi jobs and wage subsidies: As far as possible, we to meet all our employees and applicants with ties for learning and development. meet the needs for arrangements with flexible jobs and 0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 respect, regardless of differences in: wage subsidies to help employees maintain a place in The 2016 survey conducted in Denmark and Sweden had Dedication the labour market. •G ender, age, sexuality, ethnicity, disability a response rate of 84 per cent and showed a generally and life situation high level not least on the parameters Job Satisfaction, These initiatives help us in our efforts to meet our emMotivation, and Dedication. ployees’ diverse and changing needs for training, sup•V iews and opinions, religion, interests, ambitions, philosophy of life, personal priorities port and development, and strengthen the benefits of a diverse workforce for Toms. 0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 Source: Toms Diversity Policy. Average Danish manufacturing company in the food and beverage industry Read the whole policy here. Toms Toms Group A/S Page 16 Responsibility 2016 workplace assessment of their area and on this basis Staying healthy Gender distribution in management produced an action plan. We aim to offer a healthy working environment for all The six Board Members in the Board of Toms Group A/S are up for election every two years and are elected by the employees. Employees are offered vaccinations, free general assembly. In 2016 Board Member Flemming Sundøe retired and Carsten Wehrmann was elected to the To prevent occupational risks, all safety groups are access to healthcare services such as physiotherapy and board, why the gender distribution of 100 per cent men was maintained. There are, in addition, three staff-elected obliged to meet at least once a month and to take a massage, either on-site or near their place of work, and Board Members, two of whom are female. The Board of Directors aims to have at least one female board member safety walk at least six times a year. The aim is to check free or discounted access to spinning and gym facilities elected by the general assembly by 2020. that the working conditions are in order with regard to and sports clubs. health and safety, but also to encourage safe behaviour The executive management group at Toms comprises eight members, four of whom are female. The group of among employees. We are continuously training the During 2016, employees who found that they needed managers below the executive management level comprises 60 members: 23 per cent women and 77 per cent safety groups in this matter. help dealing with obesity were given sessions with coachmen. es to encourage lifestyle changes, not only for themExecutive Management Middle Management selves, but also for their families. 23% Occupational accidents We work systematically and targeted to continually improve workplace safety at our factories. Our focus in this work is both the optimization of the physical conditions and the creation of a culture where safety is given highest priority and where there is widespread understanding of the importance of following rules and instructions. 50% 50% We believe that our total effort on health and safety at work is best measured by focusing on the number of lost working days. The graph below shows the number of lost working day cases in the past years at our two factories in Denmark – 77% the chocolate factory and the sugar confectionery factory. Women Men Occupational accidents per 1 m working hours 60 A guide for all of us of dilemmas, in how each of them should act towards In 2016 we have finalised an internal Code of Conduct to each other, our customers and other business partners. guide us all through large and small choices in our daily In 2017, both our Danish, Polish, German and Swedish 50 life. It describes what we at Toms believe to be ethical employees will complete this course. and responsible behaviour. It aims to help us all to always behave properly in our relations with our customers, With the introduction of this Code of Conduct, we have 40 suppliers, colleagues and society. set up an e-mail address (whistle@tomsgroup.com) to help our employees confidently report serious breaches Our Code of Conduct is based on the ten principles in the of the rules which they discover. This internal whis30 UN Global Compact in order to ensure that this initiatle-blower scheme is being introduced as part of the etive reinforces our compliance with the Global Compact learning programme for the purpose of enhancing a work principles. We believe it is essential that our commitment environment that promotes openness and ensuring that 20 to the Global Compact is not only a statement of intent. important information is not withheld. Our strong foundation must continue to be reflected 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 in actual operations. Therefore, as part of our Code of Occupational health Conduct, we have described how our guidelines result in and safety Chocolate Factory Sugar Confectionery Factory Total certain specific rules and how they are reflected in actions It is our general duty to ensure the safety and health of workers in every aspect related to their work. The number of occupational accidents has dropped significantly in 2016 compared to the previous year and is now and decisions. back at the level of the years from 2012 to 2015. This is described in an e-learning course, developed in the The health and safety organisation at our two factories A lost working day case is defined as any occupational illness or work-related accident involving lost working time, excluding autumn of 2016. This course contains a description of in Denmark is structured in 15 safety groups, each rethose accidents in which time lost is restricted to the day of occurrence. It is worth mentioning that our statistics cover all how we translate our Code of Conduct into behaviour in sponsible for a workplace area and the people employed accidents, but only count working hours of the hourly workers. our daily lives and trains our employees, through a series in that area. In 2013, all safety groups made a complete Toms Group A/S Page 18 Responsibility 2016 ENVIRONMENT AND CLIMATE Toms Group A/S Page 20 Responsibility 2016 From cocoa shells to energy As part of our partnership with DONG, we have worked to use cocoa shells, a biodegradable waste product in chocolate production, to produce district heating at DONG Energy for heating Danish households, thus Environment and climate contributing to both the environment and to savings for Toms. In 2016 we supplied 360 tonnes of cocoa shells to the Environment and climate is one of the cornerstones of our Avedøre Power Station. Here the cocoa shells are used approach to sustainability. We have an objective to minimise our as biofuel to produce district heating. impact on both global climate and the local environment through In 2016, the 360 tonnes of cocoa shells have protargeted efforts at energy savings, support of green conversion duced district heating approximately equivalent to the annual heat consumption of 94 Danish family homes. and responsible use of resources in our supply chain. Climate Partnership in 2016 already, and others are expected to make an Green power The reason why we fight for sustainable palm oil is, that Since 2009, Toms has been in a Climate Partnership with impact in 2017 and 2018. In 2016 we have purchased green certificates from grown in the wrong place and in the wrong way, the cultithe energy company DONG Energy. Anholt offshore wind farm corresponding to our entire vation of palm oil can be devastating for people, wildlife, Energy savings of 1,776 MWh have been achieved in energy consumption in Denmark. nature and our climate. But as oil palm trees produces The purpose of this partnership is to achieve energy 2016. This is equivalent to the electricity consumption far more oil per hectare than any other crop it is not a savings by reducing energy consumption and reduce our of more than 305 average Danish families of two adults The certificates include “Climate For Investment”, ensurresponsible or sustainable solution to shift to other oil overall impact on the climate from our Danish factories. and two children. Examples of energy-saving projects ing that more than 70 per cent of the price of the green sources. Following the recommendations from WWF, we We will do this by reducing our energy consumption, realready implemented are control of lighting and instalcertificates are reinvested in the development of new therefore fight for a global transition to sustainable palm ducing the use of fossil fuels and transferring our electricilation of LED spotlights, replacement of fixtures and renewable energy. Most recently, the money from the oil and follow the standard and guidance of the Roundtaty to renewable energy. rebuilding of a heating station. climate investment has been invested in the construction ble on Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO). of a biogas upgrading plant. Energy savings Measured in terms of CO2, in 2016 we have reduced our Total energy consumption at Toms decreased by four total CO2 emissions by 42 per cent as a result of these The plant upgrades biogas to bio natural gas, which Towards sustainable palm oil per cent in 2016, and is now 21 per cent below the total energy savings, lower production and increased purchase makes it possible to transport bio natural gas to the RSPO is a not-for-profit association created in 2004 consumption in 2008. of green electricity. natural gas grid and thus achieve better distribution and to promote the growth and use of sustainable higher utilization of CO2-neutral energy. palm oil products through credible global standards Several projects have been taken on in 2016 at our DanCompared to 2008, by the end of 2016 Toms has reand engagement of stakeholders. RSPO palm oil is ish factories to reduce energy consumption and thereby duced total CO2 emissions by 77 per cent. Sustainable palm oil a credible way to tackle tropical deforestation and the emissions of CO2. Some of these have had an impact Palm oil represents a very small part of some of our environmental and social issues of palm oil producproducts. Despite this, we consider it part of our respontion. For more information, see rspo.org sibility to do what we can to make palm oil production Energy consumption CO2 emission sustainable. In 2017 we will continue our targeted efforts to 50.000 9000 quality-assure every link in our own supply chain, By the end of 2016 we had achieved absolute assurance and we will continue our work with RSPO to support 7000 of RSPO certified sustainable palm oil for the vast majorithe whole industry in a development towards ma45.000 ty of all the products from our Danish factories. king sustainable palm oil the norm. 5000 40.000 Our goal is to reach 100 per cent segregated RSPO 3000 certified palm oil. Segregation ensures that certified 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 sustainable palm oil is physically kept apart from nonsustainable palm oil throughout the supply chain, that Our energy consumption is now 21 per cent In 2016 we have reduced our total CO2 emissions it is traceable and fully present in the end product. below the consumption in 2008. by 42 per cent. Toms Group A/S Page 22 Responsibility 2016 ANTI-CORRUPTION Toms Group A/S Page 24 Responsibility 2016 Anti-Corruption We have 1,300 suppliers, 1,200 employees, and customers in more than 100 countries. A major part of our responsibility towards all of these people is to ensure that our relationship with them is based on fairness, honesty and high ethical standards. To achieve this, we must demand the same high stanSuppliers dards from our business partners that we demand of As part of a long value chain, our continued responsible ourselves. business conduct depends on our suppliers’ approach. That is why the expectation to respect human rights, In the “Labour” section, we described how we work to labour standards, the environment and anti-corruption ensure that all of us at Toms are aware of our ethical is reflected on an operational level as a significant part standards, and how we plan to train all employees in of our Supplier Code of Conduct and hence our requirethese standards as described in our new Code of Conduct ments for all new and existing suppliers. for employees. We also described, that we as part of this have developed a whistleblower scheme that will give all This has been the case since 2009, and, as part of our of our employees the possibility to confidently report any general work for responsible sourcing, we use Supplier discovered serious breaches of the rules. Questionnaires to assess all our suppliers. In 2016 all of our supplier audits conducted outside Denmark and The social audit also mentioned in the section “Labour”, Sweden (approx. half of the audits) included social issues, and the numerous code of conducts we review and sign based on our Supplier Questionnaire. as suppliers for our customers, help us to constantly ensure that we meet our own as well as the international We have not registered or been made aware of any cases standards for responsible business conduct including the from our suppliers or other business partners related to insurance against corruption. corruption. In the event of any such cases, they will be taken very seriously and we will act immediately. Toms Group A/S Page 26 Responsibility 2016 FINAL REMARK Toms Group A/S Page 28 Responsibility 2016 Final remark We believe that, like every other company, we can always do better, and we have great respect for the complexity of the challenges that face every company working to ensure responsibility and enhance sustainability in its entire value chain. In this report we have described our approach and With this tool, we thoroughly examined the areas of actions to ensure that, through our business conduct, Human Rights and Labour, as well as the area of “Manwe respect and support the four cornerstones of the UN agement”, which provides an overview of the company’s Global Compact: Human Rights, Labour Standards, Engovernance structures and strategic foundation of the vironment and Anti-Corruption. We have also described efforts towards responsibility and sustainability. This prohow we have incorporated processes for due diligence in cess confirmed that we meet both our own and external the form of audits, systems for responsible sourcing, and requirements and expectations, and that our planned self-critical reviewing of customers’ codes of conduct. actions and continued efforts are well chosen. A holistic and critical view In 2017 we will finalise this due diligence process by on our approach examining the last two areas: Environment and Anti-CorTo ensure that we do not leave any sub-area of our ruption. corporate social responsibility unattended to, we have in addition to these initiatives, conducted the first part of a For more information on the UN Global Compact tool, complete, holistic due diligence process in 2016. We have visit: globalcompactselfassessment.org done this using the UN Global Compact Self-Assessment Tool, which enables companies to scour all procedures, approaches and policies for any non-compliance with the complete set of principles behind the Global Compact. Toms Group A/S Page 30 Responsibility 2016 Toms Gruppen A/S Toms Allé 1 2750 Ballerup, Denmark Telephone: +45 44 89 10 00 Fax: +45 44 89 10 99 Registered office: Ballerup E-mail: info@toms.dk Registration no.: 56 75 93 28 Website: www.tomsgroup.com Established: 30 January 1924 Financial year: 1 January 31 December
