SUNSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 www.ebcobitar.com EBCO (BITAR): THE COMPANY MESSAGE FROM OUR CEO We seek to build strategic, long-term relationships with suppliers that are committed to continuous improvement in quality and dedicated to competitively pricing their products and services to us. We carefully select our clients, just like they select us. With our reputation at stake in every project, we are very selective about the clients we serve and we serve them best. Writing this letter brings me back to 1971, We care about the more precisely the day I graduated from the environment and the American University of Beirut, and to the community we live in. ambition of every young engineer to plant We believe that our company a seed and watch it grow. We have been in has a responsibility to give business over four decades and we started something good back from it based on honesty and integrity. Today, the fruits of our success. we are a construction company with over 100 employees and 1,000 daily labor force spread all over Lebanon. Our vision for the next five years is to expand our contracting services to other countries; we built a As I always tell the people around me, strong name back home and are equipped trust is the most important element for a and ready to penetrate other markets, as successful company. Leaders nowadays we did in Iraq. We are ISO certified since can no longer trust in power; instead, they 2007 and a member of the United Nations should rely on the power of trust. Global Compact initiative. By building trust, I know that we can move We are a family business and every closer to realizing our vision. employee is part of this family. We value our human capital and recognize that our company’s success is based on our Thank you, team’s ability to provide consistent quality Eng. Jalal Bitar performance. CEO at EBCO (BITAR) OUR VISION, MISSION & VALUES EBCO (BITAR) will expand its efforts to grow profitably in meeting customer needs today and in the future by OUR VISION continuing to build strong partnerships with our suppliers and foster employees’ engagement towards a sustainable future. EBCO (BITAR) is committed in building lasting relationships based on integrity, performance, value OUR MISSION and customer satisfaction. Our pledge is to meet the changing needs of our clients with our quality services delivered by the most qualified people. OUR VALUES SAFETY Safety comes first; the safety of our employees, subcontractors, owners, and the general public is our primary concern. Safety coincides with quality and is an integral part of our business. We are conscientious in our actions and provide a safe workplace. TEAM WORK We recognize our primary asset is people. To be successful, EBCO (BITAR) must be a rewarding place to work. We provide opportunity and encouragement to help our people reach their potential. We work with our clients and our suppliers as a team. Mutual respect provides the foundation for our success. INTEGRITY We remain true to our founding values of quality, honesty and hard work. We are committed to aligning our strategies with the United Nations Global Compact principles in the areas of human rights, labour environment and anti-corruption. EXCELLENCE We are keen to offer the highest standards of service, quality, and personal attention to clients. We constantly challenge ourselves to be the best. OUR SERVICES PRE-CONSTRUCTION SERVICES Overall project success relies heavily upon the decisions made at the initial stages. We ensure a good foundation for the project to deliver client’s objectives from the earliest point in the development process. Our pre-construction services include feasibility studies, site analysis, design studies and landscaping, value engineering, cost control and scheduling, procurement, constructability reviews and permit application. GENERAL CONTRACTING General contracting has been the essence of EBCO (BITAR)’s business since 1975. With our private and public sector projects, our pledge to our clients is to provide general construction services at the highest levels of integrity, safety and quality. Our areas of expertise comprise: Cultural & Educational Residential & Commercial Health Care Archeological CONSTRUCTION Telecommunication MANAGEMENT Infrastructure Construction projects involve subcontractors and suppliers, daily workers, materials, equipment, and services. Managing such operations from start to finish require an expertise in construction management, from handling the big process and negotiating contracts, materials management and warehousing, to field administration and maintenance of operations. EBCO (BITAR) & THE UNGC OUR CONTINUOUS COMMITMENT EBCO (BITAR) has been recognized as an active member of the United Nations Global Compact initiative since 2011, making it the ﬁrst company and among the 20 ﬁrst participants in Lebanon to be committed to the UNGC 10 principles in the areas of human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. We are proud founders of UNGC Lebanon Network and member of its Steering Committee. The network brings together leading business and non-business participants to raise awareness on UNGC as a global corporate sustainability platform and to advance responsible business in Lebanon. The Lebanon Network creates opportunities for engagement, facilitating dialogue and learning in advancing issues of mutual interest and concern pertaining to sustainability. Our Managing Partner has been personally dedicated to this cause and always present in the regular meetings and events held by the local network. Our ﬁnancial contributions and volunteering conﬁrms our strong commitment to its values and strategies. On October 10, 2017, GCNL organized a Multi-Stakeholder SDG Forum that took place in Olayan School of Business, American University of Beirut. The event featured the network’s two years of great achievements as well as an impressive line-up of speakers with discussions revolving around the different roles of the public sector, civil society organizations and private sector in promoting our join vision of a better future. Elections took place as well. EBCO (BITAR) has been proudly re-elected to continue serving on the Steering Committee for the next 2 years. We are working all together to achieve our Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) to help the GCNL mission in creating a sustainable and inclusive global economy that delivers lasting benefits to people, communities and market. ADHERENCE TO UNGC’s 10 PRINCIPLES HUMAN RIGHTS 11. Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and 22. make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses ADDRESSING HUMAN RIGHTS POLICY HUMAN RIGHTS POLICY In September 2017, EBCO (BITAR) issued its Human Right Policy bringing together all other policies related to equal employment, discrimination, underage workers under one umbrella. The policy states: EBCO (BITAR) respects human rights and plays a positive role in the communities where it operates. Our Human Rights Policy fosters greater awareness of human rights issues throughout the company and enhances our capabilities to identify and manage human rights issues. We treat all of our employees with respect and dignity, provide equal employment opportunities, and promote diversity in the workplace. Our company policies and procedures are consistent with ILO labor principles concerning freedom of association and collective bargaining, nondiscrimination, forced labor and underage workers in the workplace. EBCO (BITAR) places great importance on equal employment opportunity for everyone and fair treatment without discrimination based on race, sex, and education. At EBCO (BITAR) potential candidates have equal employment chances upon their application disregarding their gender or nationality. Without any efforts diversity led the way to its highlight, today we have among our employees and workers three nationalities – Lebanese, Palestinians and Syrians divided between men and women occupying positions up to senior level. 25% of our full time employees are women and 15% occupy senior level positions. POLITICAL NEUTRALITY POLICY Nevertheless, we do not discriminate against any employee based on political afﬁliation and in our Political Neutrality Policy we urge employees not to engage in political discussions during working hours. HUMAN RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT EBCO (BITAR) continues to establish and improve its training programs to develop talented human resources. A Contract Administration training organized by the Order of Engineers and Architects was giving to our engineers . After every training, employees get to evaluate their experience whether the objectives have been met, the added value to their work and many more. As well, the department follows up with the trainers to make sure that employees have been well prepared. Our yearly team work and communication training course will be given in December. EBCO (BITAR) understands the value of team work and communication in its day to day work. Effective communication determines the success or failure of projects and ultimately, the business itself. When team members communicate with open minds they build trust and harmony in the working environment. These elements work together to create a successful business culture. HEALTH COVERAGE Palestinian employees do not benefit from the National Social Security fund (NSSF) in Lebanon, still all companies have the obligation to register its employees – whether Lebanese or non-Lebanese. EBCO (BITAR) takes it one step further and provides its non-Lebanese people private insurance as the Company truly believes that health insurance is the preferred benefit of the majority of people who work. Health insurance marks an employer as an employer of choice when desirable candidates select job opportunities. SOCIAL EVENTS We encourage employees to come together outside working hours to strengthen the team building spirit. We make sure that informal events and activities take place quarterly, it builds trust, mitigates conflict, encourages communication, and increases collaboration. Effective team building means more engaged employees, which is good for company culture and boosting the bottom line. It can also be adventurous and enjoyable. Dinner on June, 2017 INTERNSHIP PROGRAM EBCO (BITAR) takes its Internship Program very seriously for trainees are treated like employees with respect to their personnel ﬁles, attendance and evaluations. Our aim is to provide them with the ultimate experience they can get and engaging them in all the real life responsibilities of an employee. This is one of the many reasons our trainees request to extend their internship programs and most of them, if not all, end up applying for a full time position. We make sure that the certiﬁcate we grant our trainees at the end of their internship period is customized for each one of them according to their attendance, evaluation, attitude and efforts. Our Internship Program is open year long, not only during summer. In 2017, up to 50 students coming from different university background benefited from the internship program offered by EBCO (BITAR) whether on site or in the office. Interns were hosted in our departments according to their major and were mainly divided between the Construction, Architecture and design and MEP departments. LABOR 3. Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; 4. the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; 5. the effective abolition of child labour; and 6. the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. ADDRESSING LABOR PRINCIPLES TOWARDS MAKING SAFETY A HABIT No amount of legislation will put your own safety boots on your own feet. It can’t keep your hard hat on your head, nor can it tie you off when you are working at heights. This is why we opt to continuously train our employees and workers about safety measures to avoid injuries. A formal safety training has been conducted for foremen in the warehouse to properly coach them about how to use tools and equipment on site. Our tools and equipment suppliers took the floor by showing them in detail how to make sure no casualties happen. We understand that our construction workers need to be properly trained and educated on the task before working this is why we make sure they are continuously ahead of their task. ANTI CHILD LABOR POLICY EBCO (BITAR) abolishes child labor in any form and strictly implements this policy. Before a worker is admitted on site, a reference check is made to make sure the papers he presented are true. Our control office audits sites on a regular basis, even night time, to ensure no unauthorized worker is permitted. NEWSLETTER The administration department takes the responsibility upon itself to spread awareness that help employees and enlighten them on different topics. Our e-newsletter kicked off on January 2017 and it is sent to all employees first working day of the month. We believe it is a great tool of communication to keep employees informed and updated with the company news and t give them further information about other important topics such as the quality standards, safety, social responsibility, new projects, new employees joining the company, birthday and other celebrations. ACTION FOR SDGs EBCO (BITAR) issued its SDGs awareness presentation to get employees become familiar with the 17 SDGs and in particular the ones that our company is targeting for 2018. There has been a lot of curiosity around the SDGs, people felt the need to know more, asked for further information and eventually engaged towards their achievement. Continuous education about the SDGs and how we are moving forward towards their achievements are communicated monthly to our stakeholders to make sure we have them on board, as every person counts to make a change. ENVIRONMENT 7. Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; 8. undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and 9. encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. ADDRESSING ENVIRONMENT PRINCIPLES GREEN PROCUREMENT The policy supports the purchase of recycled and environmentally preferred products in order to minimize environmental impacts relating to our work. EBCO (BITAR) recognizes our employees can make a difference in favor of environmental quality. We strongly recommend the purchase of environmentally preferable products whenever they comply with the specifications and are available at a reasonably competitive price. OUZAII…IS NOW CALLED OUZVILLE Ouzville was born out of the need to beautify ouzai and unify the Lebanese people through art. This is achieved by breaking stereotypes and bringing people. Our Ouzai warehouse building, now painted by artists is making of Ouzai area a nice and artistic place to be around, adding life and colours to this area and to the neighbourhood. FAIR SELECTION OF SUPPLIERS EBCO (BITAR) adopts a fair selection process for new suppliers. At the very first stage of the selection process, suppliers get to go online and fill the suppliers registration form. The purchasing department reviews the application and if it fits our criteria of selection, the department contacts the supplier within 24 hours to ask further questions, if needed a meeting will be set. Our policies prioritize businesses who obtained ISO certifications. A supplier then is added to our database and will be asked to submit his bid in the next round of products needed to assess, financially, where he stands. On another hand, our purchasing department have worked to create a Supplier/Subcontractor evaluation form, to organize, clarify and optimize our work. These forms will help us evaluate suppliers and subcontractors based on selected performance factors. The Overall rating obtained will help us define our future decisions, whether to have future deals or not. ANTI-CORRUPTION 10. Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. ADDRESSING ANTI-CORRUPTION PRINCIPLES EBCO (BITAR) adheres to the highest standards of ethical conduct and is committed to an anti-corruption culture. Our policy is to conduct all of our business in an honest and ethical manner. We take a zero-tolerance approach to bribery and corruption and are committed to acting professionally, fairly and with integrity in all our business dealings and relationships wherever we operate and implementing and enforcing effective systems to counter bribery. We focus a great deal of our time and attention on anti-corruption efforts. The reality is that our society as a whole will not be able to address the critical social issues facing us today (poverty, health, education, economic opportunity) unless we are able to continuously decrease levels of corruption in both the public and private sectors. Eng. Jalal Bitar CEO at Ebco (Bitar) ISO 90012015 EBCO (BITAR) has been ISO 9001-2008 certified since March 2008. Our Company’s commitment to the quality standard has been shown with our continuous improvement on many levels. In February 2017, EBCO (BITAR) has been granted the new ISO 9001-2015. Our departments as well as our sites have been audited by Bureau Veritas to make sure that the Company adheres to the quality management system it has put in place. This International Standard is based on the quality management principles that improve the organization’s performance. The Main principles are: Customer Focus, leadership, engagement of people, process approach, improvement, evidence based decision making and relationship management.
