HUDSON’S BAY COMPANY 2016 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILIT Y REPORT TABLE OF CONTENTS P.3 P.32 CORPORATE SOURCING OVERVIEW ETHICALLY P.7 P.41 INVESTING IN ENGAGING OUR COMMUNITY OUR PEOPLE P.23 P.52 CONTRIBUTING TO A SUSTAINABLE REPORTING ENVIRONMENT PARAMETERS EXECUTIVE MESSAGE For more than three centuries, Hudson’s Bay Company has been making history by prove to be very effective, reducing lost time injuries over last year. We’re also proud seeing the possibility in tomorrow and bringing it to life. From our first fur trading to report that we’ve made considerable headway in our goal of reducing greenhouse post, to becoming a leading global all-channel retailer, our rich heritage is matched gas emissions by 10% by 2020, with an 8.9% reduction off our baseline. only by our passion for our future—we are continually energized by what we’ve yet to create. Our associates around the world have an exceptional sense of purpose and pride in HBC. Their incredible passion and excitement for the future of our company is 2016 was a year of immense change in the retail sector and once again HBC was an the driving force behind our accomplishments in the past year. We look forward to industry leader, visualizing and creating the department store of the future. While working together for years to come to make a positive impact on the world as we are laser-focused on taking decisive action to ensure continued performance we move forward. and strengthening our balance sheet, we are equally committed to growth that is sustainable, ethical, and good for both people and the planet. We believe that the future of retail depends not only on offering innovative online and in-store shopping environments and a seamless all-channel experience for customers, but on doing the right things for the right reasons. In 2016, HBC and the HBC Foundation in Canada donated more than $4.1 million Richard Baker, Governor and Jerry Storch, Chief Executive Officer to charities that help create healthy families, strong communities, and sport Executive Chairman excellence across the country. In the United States, our philanthropic efforts at Saks Fifth Avenue and Lord & Taylor donated more than $3 million to 600 charities and non-profit organizations, including the 9/11 Memorial and Museum, which is located steps away from our Brookfield Place offices. And in Europe, Galeria Kaufhof built on a long-standing tradition of supporting tens of thousands of disadvantaged children at Christmas time by introducing a back-to-school program in summer that provided necessary supplies to ensure that children in need could attend school well prepared and ready to learn. HBC continued our efforts to improve working conditions in the global supply chain by fully integrating the Business Social Compliance Initiative as the preferred audit standard for vendors producing HBC’s private label merchandise. We will continue to work closely with our vendors to help them reach their long-term potential though capacity building and training. To ensure HBC remains a great place to work, we’ve implemented innovative new programs and resources that provide flexibility for greater work-life balance for our associates, helping them to bring out the best in their selves, their teams, and their communities. Health and Safety efforts in North America and Europe continued to 3 CORPORATE OVERVIEW TOP CSR NEWS 2016 The Hudson’s Bay Montreal flagship achieves HBC and its various foundations contribute a full year without a lost-time injury. In Canada, nearly ¾ of all buildings achieve a full-year without a lost-time injury $8 MILLION (USD) to hundreds of charitable organizations in HBC approves 2,219 factories for North America and Europe, including $500,000 private label and national branded manufacturing across our North American and European operations raised for women’s cancer organizations Our North American associates enhanced through Saks Fifth Avenue’s 18th annual their skills and knowledge with Key to the Cure campaign 107,137 HOURS of training through our eLearning courses: For the third consecutive year, In Canada, the 8th edition of the HBC Foundation funds a full Hudson’s Bay iconic red mittens raises more than 41,503 USERS year of breast cancer research by completed Dr. Pamela Goodwin $1 MILLION 416,548 COURSES for the Canadian Olympic Foundation The HBC Foundation launches the North American plastics In Europe, systematic Cardboard recycling HBC Athlete Bursary Program, a recycling saves the equivalent of waste management at saves the equivalent of $2.5 MILLION 3,822 M 3 Galeria Kaufhof results in 136,302 investment that contributes much-needed support to Canadian Olympic hopefuls of landfill space and 3,677,976 kWh of energy 0% of waste going to landfill trees and 2,116,685 litres of water 4 CORPORATE OVERVIEW WHO WE ARE HBC is a diversified global retailer focused on driving the performance of high quality stores and our allchannel offerings, growing through acquisitions, and unlocking the value of real estate holdings. Founded in 1670, HBC is the oldest company in North America. HBC’s portfolio today includes formats ranging from luxury to premium department stores to off price fashion shopping destinations, with more than 480 stores and over 66,000 employees around the world. Our leading banners across North America and Europe include Hudson’s Bay; Lord & Taylor; Saks Fifth Avenue; Gilt; Saks OFF 5TH; Galeria Kaufhof, the largest department store group in Germany; and Belgium’s only department store group, Galeria INNO. HBC has significant investments in real estate joint ventures. We have partnered with Simon Property Group Inc. in the HBS Global Properties Joint Venture, which owns properties in the United States and Germany. In Canada, we have partnered with RioCan Real Estate Investment Trust in the RioCanHBC Joint Venture. HBC trades on the Toronto Stock Exchange under the symbol “HBC”. The company is led by Richard Baker, 39th Governor of Hudson’s Bay Company, and Gerald (Jerry) Storch, Chief Executive Officer, Hudson’s Bay Company. 5 CORPORATE OVERVIEW 3 18 3 3 18 15 3 9 1 3 15 2 1 9 1 6 2 3 2 2 2 1 16 2 26 2 6 12 34 8 16 2 6 4 1 2 24 34 8 2 6 4 2 24 2 6 2 2 1 2 1 2 2 2 2 1 1 1 2 19 2 6 3 1 9 1 2 2 23 2 1 4 1 4 12 3 1 1 1 6 1 3 213 3 9 1 5 2 2 19 12 1 1 1 1 1 4 1 3 2 2 3 5 4 4 2 12 6 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 31 4 1 5 1 12 1 2 3 4 1 1 1 1 1 1 2 1 5 1 4 2 3 2 29 3 6 1 1 4 4 2 2 1 1 1 11 12 1 4 2 4 3 11 1 2 11 1 1 4 11 1 1 2 1 1 2 4 4 1 1 1 1 1 2 3 3 29 3 1 4 1 4 1 1 2 8 4 1 1 8 13 1 12 2 2 3 11 1 2 1 1 2 1 1 1 5 2 4 1 2 1 1 1 11 2 3 1 1 4 1 1 13 2 1 8 2 8 1 5 15 4 1 14 1 2 2 1 1 14 15 4 WHERE WE ARE HUDSON’S BAY GALERIA KAUFHOF Number of stores as 2 90 Stores 100 Stores of December 2016: LORD & TAYLOR 50 Stores HOME OUTFITTERS GALERIA INNO 16 Stores SPORTARENA 482 54 Stores 13 Stores Number of associates as of SAKS FIFTH AVENUE CORPORATE LOCATIONS December 2016 is more than 66,000 41 Stores Includes home offices, distribution centres, and call centres SAKS OFF 5TH 6 118 Stores INVESTING IN OUR COMMUNIT Y HBC is committed to giving back to the customers and associates that drive HBC operations around the world. Across our banners, we support hundreds of charities and non-profit organizations whose vital work helps to create strong communities and healthy families in the cities and communities where we live. 7 INVESTING IN OUR COMMUNIT Y THE HBC FOUNDATION & HUDSON’S BAY The HBC Foundation is a leading registered charitable organization dedicated HEALTHY FAMILIES $1,000,931 to improving the lives of Canadians, through organizations and initiatives that contribute to healthy families, strong communities, and sport excellence. STRONG COMMUNITIES $689,209 Since 2005, the HBC Foundation has donated nearly $75 million (CDN) in cash and in-kind donations to charitable organizations. SPORT EXCELLENCE $2,498,615 In 2016, HBC and its Canadian Foundation donated more than $4.1 million in cash TOTAL $4,188,755 and in kind to 165 charitable organizations across Canada, focused on our three key areas: OFFICIAL CHARITABLE PARTNERS 8 INVESTING IN OUR COMMUNIT Y BREAST CANCER RESEARCH FOUNDATION (BCRF) For a third consecutive year, the HBC Foundation in Canada supported the Breast Cancer Research Foundation (BCRF) with a $250,000 donation, fully funding the work of Dr. Pamela Goodwin for one year. Dr. Goodwin is the Director of Mount Sinai Hospital’s Marvelle Koffler Breast Centre and a world leader in breast cancer research, focusing on the impact of lifestyle and related factors on patient survival rates. Funds for Dr. Goodwin’s vital research were raised through product sales, Hudson’s Bay beauty events, and “Donate Your Rewards Points” campaigns. The HBC Foundation also hosted The Power of Pink, an exclusive luncheon in support of BCRF and the Marvelle Koffler Breast Centre. On September 29th, the HBC Foundation joined forces with The Estée Lauder Companies and Sinai Health Foundation for the event, which featured guest speaker Jane Lauder, Global Brand President of Clinique, and a keynote address by Dr. Pamela Goodwin. Since 2012, the HBC Foundation has donated more than $963,000 to BCRF. 9 INVESTING IN OUR COMMUNIT Y RED MITTENS Hudson’s Bay proudly launched the 8th edition of our Red Mittens at the 2016 Olympic Closing Ceremonies in Rio, where they were debuted by Team Canada as they entered the stadium, hands clad in red and white. The Red Mittens have become one of the nation’s most iconic symbols of Canadian Olympic pride and the source of millions of dollars in direct funding that helps provide Canadian Olympians and next generation athletes with access to high-performance resources for world-class training. In 2016, the Red Mittens generated more than $1 million for the Canadian Olympic Foundation, bringing the total donation to more than $30.5 million since forming the partnership in 2006. “Thank you to Hudson’s Bay for continuing to support Canadian athletes with their 8th edition of the Red Mittens. The Red Mittens generate millions of dollars for Canada’s athletes, which helps pave the road to their success on the field of play. I encourage Canadians to go out and buy a pair in support of their sporting heroes.” ~ Chris Overholt, CEO, Canadian Olympic Committee. 10 INVESTING IN OUR COMMUNIT Y ATHLETE BURSARY PROGRAM In June, the HBC Foundation and the Canadian JUSTINE DUFOUR-L APOINTE • Olympic Foundation announced the HBC Athlete Freestyle Skiing – Moguls Bursary Program, to help Canadian athletes cover PHILIPPE GAGNÉ • Diving costs involved with Olympic training. TRAVIS GERRITS • Freestyle Skiing – Aerials SAMUEL GIRARD • Short Track Speed Skating Each of the 50 bursary recipients will receive MAGALI HARVEY • Rugby $10,000 per year, through to 2020. This $2.5 million TAYLOR HENRICH • Ski Jumping investment will contribute much-needed support to GILMORE JUNIO • Long Track Speed Skating Olympic hopefuls across Canada, who often struggle MIKAËL KINGSBURY • Freestyle Skiing – Moguls to fund activities that will benefit their development, MELISSA LOTHOLZ • Bobsleigh such as international competition, sport science, CONLIN MCCABE • Rowing daily training programs, new equipment, coaching, KIMBERLEY MCRAE • Luge and nutrition. ERIN MIELZYNSKI • Alpine Skiing CHRISTABEL NETTEY • Athletics “HBC Athlete Bursary Program is an incredible NAM NGUYEN • Figure Skating initiative and provides substantial support to the EMILY OVERHOLT • Swimming selected athletes. The group is an exciting mix of JOSEPH POLOSSIFAKIS • Fencing Olympic medallists, veterans, and up-and-coming TAYLOR RUCK • Swimming talent. We are so excited to see the things they can THE 50 SUCCESSFUL BEN RUSSELL • Canoe/Kayak Sprint accomplish with the help of these funds.” MATTHEW SARMENTO • Field Hockey BURSARY CANDIDATES CHAIM SCHALK • Beach Volleyball ~ Selga Apse, Director Business Operations, Canadian Olympic Foundation JENNIFER ABEL • Diving KELSEY SERWA • Ski Cross MEGHAN AGOSTA • Ice Hockey DARCY SHARPE • Snowboard “I am honored and grateful to be a part of the HEATHER BANSLEY • Beach Volleyball JACQUELINE SIMONEAU • Synchronized Swimming HBC Athlete Bursary Program. On behalf of the KHAMICA BINGHAM • Athletics CAMERON SMEDLEY • Canoe/Kayak Slalom 50 athletes in the program, thank you to the HBC MELISSA BISHOP • Athletics NATHAN SMITH • Biathlon Foundation and the Canadian Olympic Foundation ELLIE BL ACK • Artistic Gymnastics KIRSTEN SWEETL AND • Triathlon for the opportunity. This financial help will go a long IVANIE BLONDIN • Long Track Speed Skating MARIELLE THOMPSON • Ski Cross way toward helping us achieve our athletic goals.” JAMIE BRODER • Beach Volleyball BENJAMIN THORNE • Athletics ~ Ivanie Blondin, Sochi 2014 Olympian and 2016 MANDY BUJOLD • Boxing YUKI TSUBOTA • Freestyle Skiing – Slopestyle women’s speed skating mass start world champion KAROL-ANN CANUEL • Road Cycling ANTOINE VALOIS-FORTIER • Judo RYAN COCHRANE • Swimming CHANTAL VAN L ANDEGHEM • Swimming NICOL AS CONSTANTIN-BICARI • Water Polo ELISABETH VATHJE • Skeleton DUSTIN COOK • Alpine Skiing RUDY VERHOEFF • Volleyball CHARLE COURNOYER • Short Track Speed Skating ERICA WIEBE • Wrestling SIMON D’ARTOIS • Freestyle Skiing – Halfpipe CARLING ZEEMAN • Rowing 11 INVESTING IN OUR COMMUNIT Y PROSTATE CANCER CANADA To increase awareness of prostate cancer and encourage screening and prevention, the HBC Foundation proudly partnered with Prostate Cancer Canada’s “Wear Plaid for Dad” campaign, creating an exclusive line of Hudson North men’s plaid shirts. A portion of every shirt sale was donated to Prostate Cancer Canada, raising $150,000 through sale of the shirts and additional fundraising activities. “Prostate Cancer Canada is grateful for the support of our generous partners Hudson’s Bay and the HBC Foundation. Through their commitment to Plaid for Dad and the prostate cancer community, Hudson’s Bay and the HBC Foundation continue to demonstrate thoughtfulness, passion, and dedication to supporting the fight against the most common cancer diagnosed amongst Canadian men. Together, we will fund the most promising research, education, and care programs in hopes of creating better outcomes for all those affected by the disease.” ~Falyn Katz, National Director, Corporate and Community Development, Prostate Cancer Canada 12 INVESTING IN OUR COMMUNIT Y GOLF TOURNAMENT For the 15th year, the HBC Foundation Golf Tournament & Spa was one of the largest and most exciting corporate fundraising events of its kind in Canada, raising $650,000 for the Canadian Olympic Foundation and Paralympic Foundation of Canada. The highly anticipated event brought together more than 800 vendors, partners, and associates, as well as athlete and celebrity attendees, to raise much-needed funds for these very worthy causes. The HBC Foundation Golf Tournament & Spa has consistently been the single biggest fundraiser for the HBC Foundation. Since its inception in 2001, the event has raised more than $10.3 million to support various local and national charitable organizations. ASSOCIATE GIVING PROGRAM Established in 2014, the HBC Foundation’s Associate Giving Program allows Canadian associates to make contributions to the HBC Foundation through monthly payroll deductions. The generosity of HBC associates generated more than $27,800 in support of the Foundation this year; since the program’s inception, more than $74,000 has been raised for charitable organizations in Canada. The HBC Foundation would like to thank participating associates for their ongoing support through the Associate Giving Program. SECRET SANTA As we work to build strong local communities, we place particular emphasis on our own HBC family. In 2015 we introduced a Secret Santa initiative to help Canadian Associates who were facing difficulties around the holidays. Associates can nominate themselves or their colleagues as candidates who would benefit from a helping hand. In 2016, HBC was able to assist 302 U.S. associates and 177 Canadian associates with Visa gift card donations with a total value of $51,450 (USD) and $34,700 (CDN) respectively. 13 SAKS FIFTH AVENUE Saks Fifth Avenue is as dedicated to its communities as it is to its customers. In 2016, more than $1.5 million (USD) was donated to over 300 charitable and non-profit organizations in the U.S. through both corporate and store donations. 14 INVESTING IN OUR COMMUNIT Y 9/11 MEMORIAL & MUSEUM Saks Fifth Avenue contributed a total of $100,000 to the 9/11 Memorial & Museum as part of the opening of Saks Downtown at Brookfield Place. Throughout opening weekend, 10% of store sales (up to $50,000) was donated to the 9/11 Memorial & Museum, with the remaining $50,000 donated via the Saks Foundation. For our contribution, Saks Fifth Avenue was recognized as Tomorrow’s Trust Donor at the Annual Benefit Dinner, while HBC is among the founding supporters of the 9/11 Memorial Museum Corporate Membership program. 15 INVESTING IN OUR COMMUNIT Y KEY TO THE CURE Saks Fifth Avenue’s Key to the Cure campaign is a highly-anticipated charity event and designer collaboration to raise funds for women’s cancer organizations across the U.S. In 2016 we launched the 18th annual campaign, and for the first time ever, we partnered with an accessories designer to create our coveted fund-raising t-shirt. The Christian Louboutin design was modeled by our 2016 Ambassador, Halle Berry. Through t-shirt sales and charity shopping events at full-line stores, Saks.com, and saksofffifth.com during the month of October, the 2016 campaign raised more than $500,000 for the Entertainment Industry Foundation’s Stand Up To Cancer initiative, as well as local cancer organizations nationwide. 16 INVESTING IN OUR COMMUNIT Y BREAST CANCER PHOENIX HOUSE RESEARCH FOUNDATION Continuing our dedication to supporting cancer research, Saks Fifth Phoenix House provides programs for individuals, families, and communities Avenue served as the Presenting Sponsor of the Breast Cancer Research affected by substance abuse and dependency. In November, Saks Fifth Avenue Foundation’s Boston Hot Pink Party. Saks contributed $100,000 to the cause President, Marc Metrick, was honored at Phoenix House’s 2017 Fashion Award and was recognized as the title supporter. Dinner alongside Michael Clinton, President, Marketing and Publishing Director of Hearst Magazines, and Jack McCollough and Lazaro Hernandez, designers of Proenza Schouler. The Fashion Award Dinner is the largest annual fundraising event for Phoenix House and honors leaders in the fashion, beauty, retail, and media industries. This event raises awareness about substance abuse and addiction and benefits Phoenix House’s pioneering treatment and recovery programs. Saks helped raise more than $950,000 for the cause. 17 LORD & TAYLOR At Lord & Taylor, we aim to make a positive impact by supporting local and national fundraising organizations and initiatives that share our vision of strengthening communities. In 2016, Lord & Taylor helped raise more than $1.5 million to over 300 charitable organizations across the U.S. 18 INVESTING IN OUR COMMUNIT Y CHARIT Y DAYS SHOP SMART DO GOOD SAVE THE CHILDREN FL AGSHIP CHARIT Y DAY In 2016, Lord & Taylor expanded the Charity Days Lord & Taylor continued to build on the success of our On November 10, Lord & Taylor’s New York City flagship program to four times per year from two, after a Shop Smart Do Good fundraising initiative, an event store and Save the Children joined forces to kick off the successful launch in 2015. The program took place in held at 8 Lord & Taylor stores twice a year. Local nonholiday season with a charity shopping event. Coinciding stores and online at lordandtaylor.com. Customers were profit organizations can sign up to sell $5 tickets, and with the highly anticipated unveiling of Lord & Taylor’s encouraged to make a $5 contribution to benefit national keep the full amount generated from ticket sales. In 2016 iconic holiday window display, the charity shopping event non-profit partners; in exchange, they received a special more than 300 non-profit organizations raised more raised $110,000 through $5 ticket sales and donations savings pass to use during the respective event. In than $234,000. from vendor partners. addition, stores offered refreshments, special guest appearances, children’s activities, In return for their ticket purchase, shoppers received live music, and additional cosmetic support. a storewide savings pass along with two single-use coupons, and Lord & Taylor stores made an additional Four Charity Days were held in 2016: contribution of $188,000. Since 2006, this program has raised over $9.4 million. January event in support of Look Good Feel Better raised $312,880 April event benefitted Habitat for Humanity, raising $313,870 May event benefitting USO raised $278,700 September & October events benefitting the American Cancer Society raised $401,104 19 INVESTING IN OUR COMMUNIT Y GALERIA KAUFHOF CHARIT Y CHRISTMAS TREE For more than 10 years, Galeria Kaufhof has been joining forces with charities that support disadvantaged children to make holiday wishes come true. In our German department stores and at HBC Europe headquarters, Christmas trees are adorned with notes that display a gift that a particular child has asked for. Customers and associates choose notes, buy the gifts, and donate them at a central collection point. Galeria Kaufhof organizes the initiative and steps in to fulfill any gift requests that are left on the tree. Through this program, our customers and associates help to fulfill more than 15,000 Christmas wishes each year. Building on the success of the Christmas campaign, some Galeria Kaufhof stores adapted the charity tree for a back-to-school campaign. With the campaign slogan, “One more item,” customers were encouraged to purchase an extra item with their back-to-school shopping, to be donated to a child in need. 20 INVESTING IN OUR COMMUNIT Y GALERIA KAUFHOF SHOPPING ASSISTANCE Shopping can be a particular challenge for people who are blind or visually impaired. For barrierfree shopping, customers may call ahead to request a shopping escort, free of charge, at 75 Galeria Kaufhof department stores. A specially trained sales assistant guides shoppers and helps with product selection as well as fitting. Some department stores also offer special fashion shows for blind and visually impaired people, where trained associates explain the color, cut, and style of items and shoppers can touch the items. SOLIDARIT Y FUND: COLLEAGUES HELPING COLLEAGUES Since 2005, driven by the motto, “Colleagues helping Colleagues,” Galeria Kaufhof employees have been providing financial assistance to their fellow associates or their relatives who need support through a Solidarity Fund. The Solidarity Fund was established by Galeria Kaufhof management, together with the general works council. Associates can contribute to the fund by donating the ‘leftover cents’ from their net salary, or by donating a specific sum, either one-time or through monthly deductions. Combined, these many small-scale contributions are an enormous help for fund recipients. 21 INVESTING IN OUR COMMUNIT Y HUDSON’S BAY COMPANY HISTORY FOUNDATION Hudson’s Bay Company donated its corporate archives to the Manitoba Archives and the Hudson’s Bay Company Museum Collection to The Manitoba Museum in 1994. The Hudson’s Bay Company History Foundation A Map of North America with Hudson’s Bay and Straights, Anno 1748. (HBCHF), a private charitable foundation controlled by HBC, was established at Engraver: R.W. Seale. Image courtesy of Hudson’s Bay Company Archives, that time to provide funds for the continued preservation, promotion, and public Archives of Manitoba. access to both collections in perpetuity. HBCHF is committed to advancing knowledge of, and interest in, the Company’s role in Canadian history. This is accomplished through support of the HBC Education Program—in particular, the HBC Heritage website, hbcheritage.ca. Additionally, HBCHF provides support to Canada’s National History Society, a not-for-profit organization whose objective is the promotion of greater interest in Canadian history. Artist’s rendering of the Yonge Street facade of the Simpson’s Queen Street building, at the corner of Yonge and Queen, 1975. Image courtesy of the In 2016, HBCHF donated approximately $1.8 million in HBC Corporate Collection. financial support to these groups. S.S. Beaver off Fort Victoria, 1846. Adam Sherriff Scott, oil on canvas, 1932. Image courtesy of the HBC Corporate Collection. 22 CONTRIBUTING TO A SUSTAINABLE ENVIRONMENT As a truly global corporate citizen, HBC is committed to responsible business practices to bring about positive change in the health of our planet. We’re part of the world’s largest corporate sustainability initiative—the UN Global Compact—and we work hard to shape a sustainable future for people and the planet. 23 CONTRIBUTING TO A SUSTAINABLE ENVIRONMENT THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT HBC’s environmental stewardship is built on the principles spelled out in the UN Global Compact: businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges (principle 7), undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility (principle 8), and encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies (principle 9). At our operations around the world, we’re evaluating and expanding our programs in the areas where we can have the greatest impact: waste diversion, water consumption, energy efficiency, and greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, in an effort to maintain the health of our communities. 24 CONTRIBUTING TO A SUSTAINABLE ENVIRONMENT WASTE DIVERSION IN NORTH AMERICA Waste diversion continues to be a key operational focus for HBC at our stores, offices, and distribution centres. In 2016 our diversion rate was 63%—an improvement of nearly 2% over our 2015 diversion rate. Plastics recycling was equivalent to a Cardboard recycling was equivalent savings of 3,822 m3 of landfill space and to a savings of 136,302 trees and 3,677,976 kWh of energy. 2,116,685 litres of water. In 2016, HBC completed our second full Recyclable Cardboard TOTAL WASTE BY STREAM year of working with a single waste and recycling Recyclable Pallets partner for all banners for our Canadian and U.S. Recyclable Plastic operations. We believe that having single vendor Recyclable Metal contracts has allowed us to improve diversion rates through better analytics and improved best practices. Recyclable E-waste As a result, we have increased our diversion from landfill Recyclable Single Stream in North America by 12% in that time. Recyclable Organics Recyclable Wood IN 2016, OUR DIVERSION Recyclable Hangers RATE WAS 63%** Recyclable Paper Recyclable Batteries ** Diversion rate as reported by our third-party vendor Recyclable Upholstery partner, GreenSpace Waste Solutions. This figure was Recyclable Mattress based on combined data from Hudson’s Bay, Lord & Recyclable Appliance Taylor, Home Outfitters, Saks Fifth Avenue and Saks Fifth Avenue OFF 5TH. Recyclable Waste to Energy Recyclable Bulbs Recyclable Glass Recyclable Solid Waste 25 CONTRIBUTING TO A SUSTAINABLE ENVIRONMENT WASTE DIVERSION IN EUROPE A responsible, systematic waste management system at Galeria Kaufhof resulted in 0% OF WASTE GOING TO L ANDFILL 70% of Galeria Kaufhof waste goes for recycling , 20% for energy recovery (thermal energy created by incineration is used to generate power or heat). Galeria Kaufhof contributes to a circular economy and tries to avoid waste wherever possible. This starts with little things, such as clothes hangers, which are indispensable when transporting or presenting goods. After goods are sold, hangers are collected at the stores and given to a service provider who checks and sorts them. Undamaged hangers are reused; damaged hangers are granulated and reused for the production of new ones, closing the loop of the life cycle of our clothes hangers. In addition, the company uses reusable containers for the transportation of goods from warehouses to stores wherever possible. Copying and printing systems in Galeria Kaufhof offices use rebuilt toner when available. 26 CONTRIBUTING TO A SUSTAINABLE ENVIRONMENT CANADIAN OPERATIONS GO GREEN Overall increase in Increase in single Increased organic Increased wood Increased mattress and recycling of stream recycling of recycling of recycling of upholstery recycling of 1,096 MT 241 MT 207 MT 97 MT 117 MT or or or or or 6.5% 9% 132% 64% 28% 27 CONTRIBUTING TO A SUSTAINABLE ENVIRONMENT SUCCESSFUL IMPLEMENTATIONS IN 2016 • HBC continued to expand our organic recycling program across the entire network. In 2016 HBC improved our organics recycling in Canada by 132% or 207 tonnes. • We have successfully integrated current HBC best practices to all Saks Canada expansion locations. Equipment such as compactors, balers, and organics and recycling collection bins were put in place with store builds. • Modernized equipment at select stores to improve efficiencies and assist with higher recycling volumes: in 2016, the volume of recycling done by HBC increased by 1,096 tonnes. • We have begun to roll out single stream recycling to all stores to increase staff and client participation rates. In 2016, single stream recycling increased by 241 tonnes. • Analyzed waste produced at the store level and made necessary changes in pickup frequencies of all waste and recycling streams • We have introduced the practice of incineration for select landfill material. Waste once going to landfill is now being converted into clean thermal energy—electricity and steam for use by the local community. HBC will continue to build on the success of 2015 and 2016 through innovation and implementation of recycling programs, as we maintain our position as a leader in environmental sustainability among North American retailers. 28 CONTRIBUTING TO A SUSTAINABLE ENVIRONMENT GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS IN GHG EMISSIONS HBC NORTH AMERICA NORTH AMERICA SCOPE 1 SCOPE 2 HBC has been working toward a goal of reducing 169,184 company-wide absolute GHG emissions by 10% by 2020, using a 2014 baseline. Reducing our energy consumption has been the key focus 166,855 for this GHG emissions reduction. Our GHG emissions total for 2016 151,860 was 182,388 tonnes of CO2e, which was down 6.7% from 2015, and represents an 8.9% absolute reduction off our 2014 baseline. In 2017, we will continue our efforts toward our 2020 goal. Additionally, water consumption decreased by 4% in 2016 in North America. HBC reports emissions from direct (Scope 1) energy use, indirect (Scope 2) energy use, and biogenic carbon dioxide in accordance with the 31,057 30,528 GHG Protocol and ISO14064. 28,620 Direct emissions arise from sources owned or controlled by HBC, such as fuel-burning equipment (which uses natural gas or propane) in stores or our owned trucking fleet. Indirect emissions are associated with power 2014 2015 2016 that HBC has purchased and consumed, such as electricity, steam, and chilled water. Our third-party energy consultant, Schneider Electric, prepared our 2016 A campaign to install LED lighting in 85%+ GHG Emissions Report for water consumption and fuel efficiency. We of our facilities contributed significantly to use this report to ensure that we are continually evaluating opportunities the results generated to date. to reduce the environmental footprint of our physical operations. 29 CONTRIBUTING TO A SUSTAINABLE ENVIRONMENT GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS IN GERMANY Galeria Kaufhof has been measuring its carbon footprint since CO2-emissions 2006. In the period between 2006 and 2014, the company has in kg per m2 Gross Leased Area per year reduced specific greenhouse gas emissions by almost one-third. Driven by this success, Galeria Kaufhof has set a target to further reduce specific emissions by 15% (from 2014 baseline) by 2022. The carbon footprint of Galeria Kaufhof includes scope 1, 2, and 3 data: power consumption, heating, refrigerants, company cars, paper for advertising and office use, plastic and paper bags and transport packaging for e-commerce. Energy consumption comprises almost 90% of the carbon footprint. Galeria Kaufhof has set a target to reduce energy consumption by 18% by 2022, using 2014 as a baseline. In 2016, energy intensity was 185MWh/m2, an increase of 3.4% compared 113 108 108 96 to the previous year. Power consumption remained stable, but there was an increase of nearly 10% in consumption of heating oil and gas due to a much colder winter. Further reductions will be reached by exchanging lighting sources with energy-saving lamps. LED lighting will be deployed in suitable areas, such as the lighting for jewellery counters. For 2014 2015 2016 2022 the systematic and continuous increase of our energy efficiency, Galeria Kaufhof certified its Energy Management System in Germany in accordance with ISO 50001 in 2016. -15% 30 CONTRIBUTING TO A SUSTAINABLE ENVIRONMENT ASSOCIATE PROGRAMS CARPOOLING HBC encourages commuting options that support our In addition to ride sharing, Smart Commute encourages mission to become a greener company by reducing commuters to try sustainable travel options such a our collective impact on the environment. We became walking, cycling, public transit, and telecommuting. a member of Smart Commute Brampton-Caledon in We’ve conducted a number of surveys to measure the 2008, with 143 associates using the service in 2016 to impact of the Smart Commute program. In 2016, the coordinate ride shares and carpools to our offices in Smart Commute program helped our associates track Canada. We’ve designated reserved parking spaces for 27,104 sustainable trips, reduce 1,141,991 kilometers of our Smart Commute carpoolers and have enthusiastically single occupancy vehicle travel, save 203,685 kilograms taken part in several annual events, such as Carpool of GHG emissions from entering the atmosphere, and Week, Smart Commute Week and Bike to Work Day. save $771,120 in commuting costs. TTC METROPASS COMPANY CARS DISCOUNT PROGRAM AT GALERIA KAUFHOF We offer subsidized transit passes through the Toronto A small but tangible contribution to the carbon footprint is the fleet of Transit Commission (TTC) at five store locations, two company cars. At the end of 2015, the average CO2 emission of nearly home offices and one of our distribution centres in the 400 company vehicles at Galeria Kaufhof amounted to 130 g/km. Greater Toronto Area (GTA) to encourage our Associates Galeria Kaufhof ’s company car guideline encompasses a bonus/penalty to use public transit. With the program, Associates save the system where associates’ car allowances can be more or less based on equivalent of one month of travel for every 10 months. On their chosen vehicles’ CO2 emissions. As an alternative to a company average, more than 800 associates purchased Metropasses car, associates may also opt to receive a railway subscription through the program each month in 2016. 31 SOURCING ETHICALLY At HBC, we are committed to working collaboratively with our suppliers to ensure that the people in our supply chain are working safely, with fair remuneration, and under good conditions and best practices. We strongly believe that maintaining an ethical chain requires honesty and trust with all our stakeholders, including our vendors and factories. 32 SOURCING ETHICALLY WHERE WE ARE THE AMERICAS WESTERN ASIA, BRAZIL MIDDLE EAST CANADA COLOMBIA & AFRICA BANGL ADESH DOMINICAN REPUBLIC EGYPT ECUADOR ISRAEL EL SALVADOR JORDAN HONDURAS KENYA MEXICO LEBANON PERU MADAGASCAR UNITED STATES MOROCCO URUGUAY PAKISTAN TUNISIA EUROPE TURKEY AUSTRIA BELGIUM BULGARIA SOUTHCZECH REPUBLIC CENTRAL ENGL AND FRANCE ASIA CAMBODIA GERMANY CHINA GREECE INDIA HUNGARY INDONESIA IREL AND MAL AYSIA ITALY NEPAL LITHUANIA PHILIPPINES MACEDONIA SRI L ANKA MOLDOVA THAIL AND NETHERL ANDS VIETNAM POL AND PORTUGAL ROMANIA ASIA-PACIFIC AUSTRALIA SCOTL AND HONG KONG SLOVAKIA JAPAN SPAIN REPUBLIC OF KOREA SWITZERL AND SINGAPORE UKRAINE TAIWAN 33 SOURCING ETHICALLY SOCIAL COMPLIANCE PROGRAM HBC’s mandatory Social Compliance Program and remediation is undertaken in order for our requires vendors to disclose their facilities and factories to make long-term improvements and help HBC’S MANDATORY SOCIAL participate in factory audits to ensure they move our factory matrix to a majority of ‘approved COMPLIANCE PROGRAM conduct business in an ethical and socially for production’ factories by 2020. responsible manner. The program includes all IMPACTS ~697,000 FACTORY HBC banners and applies to vendors and factories WORKERS that produce private label merchandise for HBC, as well as overseas import vendors producing national branded merchandise where HBC is the importer of record. AUDIT GRADES In 2016, HBC approved 2,219 factories for use in private label and national branded manufacturing across our North American and European operations. HBC adheres to the country-risk classifications set-out by BSCI. Of the factories approved by HBC, 84% were in a high-risk country, including China, Bangladesh, India, and Vietnam; the remaining 16% were in a factory located in a lowrisk country. The Company’s focus throughout the year was to move beyond due diligence and support factories in reaching their long-term potential through capacity building and awareness training. Our commitment to continuous factory improvement will extend beyond 2016. We continue to work closely with our suppliers to *2016 Data includes Galeria Kaufhof and Galeria INNO ensure that proper root cause analysis, training, 34 SOURCING ETHICALLY CAPACIT Y BUILDING In 2016, HBC fully integrated the Business Social Compliance Initiative (BSCI) HBC PRIVATE L ABEL into our Social Compliance Program as the preferred audit standard for vendors BSCI Audited Factories A – Outstanding producing HBC’s private label merchandise; we expect factories to observe the B – Good C – Acceptable principles outlined in the BSCI Code of Conduct. In 2016, during the new factory D – Insufficient screening process, we identified three separate factories submitting falsified audit 60% E – Unacceptable reports, which HBC considers to be a zero-tolerance violation. As a result, the three factories were not approved to work with HBC as producers. BSCI also offers free online and in-person capacity building courses and 25% workshops to producers. The courses address the issues most commonly observed during audits: social management systems, occupational health and safety, fair 6% 10% remuneration and decent working hours, and chemical management. We believe 0% strongly that with this knowledge, producers will be able to identify and fix the A B C D E key issues contributing to violations and improve their long-term performance, alleviating audit costs and audit fatigue as factories align with best practices and improve worker conditions. In 2016, 53 HBC-approved factories, with ~16,000 employees, were enrolled in the BSCI capacity building program. BEYOND THE TIER-1 SUPPLY CHAIN BY 2020, HBC AIMS TO BRING 1/3 We recognize that our impact extends beyond the workers OF OUR PRODUCERS TO AN “A” OR “B” and environment at factory level. In order to truly understand RATING AS PER CRITERIA SET-OUT BY BSCI. our operational footprint, we must identify the intermediary suppliers within the supply chain—from farmer to factory worker. We believe it’s not only our responsibility to provide workers throughout our entire supply chain with just and equitable labour practices, but to ensure we mitigate their exposure to harmful chemicals that may harm them and the environment. 35 SOURCING ETHICALLY MAPPING OUR COTTON SUPPLY CHAIN In 2016, we focused efforts on our private label cotton suppliers. Early in the year, HBC signed The Cotton Pledge—a commitment to not knowingly source cotton from Uzbekistan, which has documented labor and human rights abuses across its state-owned cotton fields. We also introduced a corporate-wide Chemical Management Policy for Textiles which outlined our expectations for private label suppliers, including the elimination of several groups of hazardous chemicals throughout their production, proper waste management, and overall environmental best practices. Further to this, we partnered with select suppliers and began an exercise of mapping our cotton supply chain through to the farm level. This work was primarily completed through questionnaires and one-on-one stakeholder conversations. The results of this initial work revealed that there is limited traceability at the farm level as information is kept confidential for proprietary reasons. To address this challenge, HBC will engage the outstanding cotton vendors in supply chain mapping and undertake a root cause analysis with the goal of creating more transparency throughout operations and promoting best practices. 36 SOURCING ETHICALLY COMMITMENT TO FACTORY SAFET Y THROUGH THE ALLIANCE The Alliance for Bangladesh Worker Safety TO DATE, VENDOR FACTORIES has successfully completed the third year HAVE COMPLETED CLOSE TO of its five-year commitment to protecting 70% OF THE REMEDIATION and empowering Bangladesh garment UNDER THE SUPERVISION workers. HBC added new factories to OF THE ALLIANCE. the Bangladesh factory matrix in 2016 as we transitioned Galeria Kaufhof into Concurrent to remediation, the Alliance HBC’s Social Compliance Program. HBC continued to provide new training and continued to play an active role in ensuring refresher training to workers to reinforce all 22 factories producing private label knowledge and awareness on fire safety. products take part in remediation and basic fire safety training programs. THIS EFFORT EMPOWERED OVER 32,000 FACTORY During the first two years of operation, WORKERS TO TAKE vendor factories have undergone rigorous OWNERSHIP OF THEIR SAFET Y initial inspections for fire, structural, BECAUSE THEY GAINED and electrical safety (either through the BETTER UNDERSTANDING OF Alliance or through the Accord on Fire FIRE HAZARDS AND THEIR and Building Safety in Bangladesh) and ROLE IN EMERGENCIES AND received Corrective Action Plans (CAPs) EVACUATIONS. to help them address all safety concerns identified during the inspections. In In 2017, HBC will continue to work 2016, we focused on addressing these toward the successful completion of safety concerns through various stages of remediation plans as we continue to verification checks by prioritizing the most drive and sustain safety in Bangladesh. critical repairs, such as the installation of fire doors and sprinkler systems. 37 SOURCING ETHICALLY CONTINUING ASSOCIATE TRAINING Our vendors and suppliers are held to a high standard of social responsibility. We work closely with our merchant teams to ensure they understand and support HBC’s ethical sourcing policy, and have the tools required to share our social compliance policy with their vendors and factories. Cross-banner merchant training throughout 2016 emphasized the importance of vendor cooperation, and the importance of placing orders in a timely manner to avoid excessive overtime for our factory workers. To evaluate understanding, attendees were required to participate in an e-learning module further reinforcing our policies and procedures. We also provided training to select private label vendors, giving them a deeper understanding of our specific social compliance and quality assurance requirements. It also provided a forum for Q&A. +1,600 MERCHANTS COMPLETED IN-PERSON AND ONLINE SOCIAL COMPLIANCE TRAINING SESSIONS 38 SOURCING ETHICALLY SUSTAINABLE CHOICES In North America, any products that contain real or faux fur (no matter how small the quantity) are labelled to comply with applicable laws and regulations, including but not limited to, the Federal Trade Commission’s Fur Products Labelling Act and the Dog and Cat Protection Act. The policy extends to all products—garments, home goods, shoes, handbags and accessories. For those customers who choose not to wear fur products, HBC offers alternative synthetic options. HBC is also working with vendors to design products using sustainable materials like tencel, repreve, and organic cotton to arrive in stores in 2017. In Germany, Galeria Kaufhof offers customers environment-friendly or animal-friendly product alternatives if available. Certain products have been banned, including fur, caged eggs, and foie gras. 39 CONTRIBUTING TO A SUSTAINABLE ENVIRONMENT GREEN OPTIONS FOR EUROPEAN CUSTOMERS Consumers increasingly want to do good with their purchases, and look to retailers to enable them to buy and act more sustainably. Since May 2016, Galeria Kaufhof offers plastic bags for a fee. In addition, Galeria Kaufhof offers its customers reusable bags and, to a limited extent, free paper bags. All shopping bags at Galeria Kaufhof are made of certified, environmentally friendly material: plastic bags are made of recycled packaging and have been awarded by Blue Angel [Blauer Engel] for their environmentally friendly production; paper bags are made of FSC®-certified paper from sustainable forestry, and shipping bags are made of recycled PET bottles. Galeria Kaufhof offers a broad range of green products in all departments: from children’s clothing, underwear, and bed linens, to cosmetics, stationery, homewares, toys, and organic food. Today, almost 10,000 articles comply with widely recognized sustainable standards like the Global Organic Textile Standard (GOTS); the natural skincare certification system, NATRUE; or the FSC “tick tree” logo. Through collaborative orders across banners, some of these articles, like children’s clothes under the brand “Bob der Bär,” are also available at Hudson’s Bay and Lord & Taylor. To make it easier for customers to find green products in store and online, Galeria Kaufhof has created the sustainability umbrella label “Natuerlich GALERIA” (Naturally GALERIA) in Germany. A green leaf logo on designated products lets customers know that the product was produced in a way that is friendlier to the environment. 40 ENGAGING OUR PEOPLE A key part of HBC’s success is our relentless focus on ensuring our world-class team of associates is energized and passionate about delighting our customers and achieving exceptional results. From professional development and ongoing learning opportunities, to prioritizing work-life balance, we strive to ensure the satisfaction and engagement of our teammates around the world. 41 ENGAGING OUR PEOPLE 2016 ASSOCIATE ENGAGEMENT SURVEY In 2016, we conducted our second HBC companywide Associate Engagement Survey – MyVoice@ HBC, where associates were provided an opportunity to share confidential feedback about working at HBC. This feedback was extremely valuable in helping HBC further understand how engaged our associates are in their work, their working environment, and with HBC overall. Nearly 30,000 associates across the United States, Canada, and Ireland took time to complete the survey. Overall, the results were very positive. We scored above an external benchmark of highperforming companies, including other retailers, in all areas we compared. Scores were particularly high as they related to satisfaction with managers, collaboration and team work, a sense of purpose, and pride in HBC. In 2017, we will continue our focus on the engagement of our associates through further MyVoice@HBC surveys. 42 ENGAGING OUR PEOPLE PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS HUDSON’S BAY AND SAKS FIFTH AVENUE LEADERSHIP JOURNEY LORD & TAYLOR EXECUTIVE EXECUTIVE EXCELLENCE The Leadership Journey program is offered to TRAINING PROGRAMS PROGRAM associates at manager level through to senior vice president, to strengthen their role as a leader by This program has two tracks: the Store Operations helping them gain insight into their leadership The 12-week Executive Excellence Program is Executive Training Program, which gives participants style and challenging them to think differently. designed to provide participants with a foundation the opportunity to work toward the position of In its second year, the program was enhanced in buying and planning. Along with on-the-job department store general manager while learning about and expanded beyond North America to Europe, learning from a designated coach and mentor, the fundamentals of driving store profitability; and the giving associates on both sides of the Atlantic the classroom training enables participants to develop Merchandising Executive Training Program, which is opportunity to network and to develop and refine their leadership and business skills, while giving them targeted for individuals interested in working toward their leadership skills. More than 200 leaders took exposure to senior leaders within the organization. a role in Buying or Planning. Each program is taught part in this advanced leadership program, with 100% The Advanced Excellence Program is the follow-up by instructors who ensure participants have a blend of of participants indicating that the coaching they program for assistants who are ready to take the classroom instruction and on-the-job experience. received was beneficial. next step in their career, preparing them for future leadership roles within Merchandising. In 2017, we will combine our programs into one HBC Merchant Development Program for all Buyers, with specialized LEARNING AND training provided for each banner. DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS Structured executive development programs are offered at several banners in the U.S. and Canada, enabling associates to further develop and enhance their skill set. Learning and Development PARTNERSHIP WITH F.I.T. INTERNSHIPS Instructors facilitate sessions at locations in both Canada and the U.S. on a variety of topics, such Through our partnership with the Fashion Institute Internships are an integral part of HBC. Each banner as Challenging Conversations, Outcome Based of New York,we are able to offer our U.S. Buying offers college and university students from across Leadership, and Presentation Skills. In 2016, we associates the opportunity to receive training and North America an opportunity to learn first-hand facilitated more than 100 unique sessions for education on apparel and accessories construction, about functions such as Merchandising, Digital, associates at headquarters and stores locations. fabrication, fit, and quality to promote a more Store Operations, Supply Chain & Logistics, Finance, At Galeria Kaufhof, associates are also encouraged effective product selection process. In 2016, 33 Marketing, Human Resources and more through an to enhance their skills every year through a robust associates took part in the four-month program. immersive 10-week placement program. In 2016, 126 seminar program. With a wide range of topics, In 2017, we plan to launch a special program for students participated in the Internship program, with from Work Technology to How to Achieve our associates in Canada and Europe. several returning for full-time opportunities upon Goals Successfully, the program provides new ways graduation. for associates to further their development. 43 ENGAGING OUR PEOPLE eLEARNING AT HBC MANAGEMENT ESSENTIALS PROGRAM (MEP) eLearning courses are one of our most heavily leveraged structured developmental Launched in October of 2016, MEP is a structured online learning program resources in North America. Online learning has the greatest reach and allows designed to support the successful transition of associates into a first-line associates to access a wide variety of learning content at a time and location most managerial role. The program is targeted to new managers, but it is available convenient for them. Our digital course catalogue includes product knowledge, for all associates, across all functions and banners in North America. MEP is system training, leadership development, and business strategy options, along with also available to Gilt Ireland, and we are working to expand our program to mandatory courses, such as health and safety, which require regular sign-off for additional locations globally. compliance completion. Online courses cover fundamental managerial skills aligned to the HBC culture. 2016 ELEARNING IN NORTH AMERICA: Supplementary materials, such as pre-assessments, coursework, and newsletters 41,503 on relevant leadership topics are also available to participants. In 2016, 1,382 associates participated in the MEP. All participants were USERS surveyed for feedback on their program experience and 91% of respondents indicated that they are extremely likely to recommend MEP to their coworkers. 416,548 COURSES COMPLETED 107,137 TRAINING HOURS ACHIEVED 44 ENGAGING OUR PEOPLE A NEW WAY TO TALK ABOUT PERFORMANCE AND DEVELOPMENT It is the passion, enthusiasm, and adventurous spirit of HBC associates that makes us one of the fastest growing retailers in the world. Keeping an eye on today’s achievement, while keeping future success in view ensures we are well-equipped to take on the opportunities of tomorrow. In 2016, we introduced an industry-leading performance management program, MyCompass@ HBC. This innovative new approach guides associates and leaders through the performance management process by motivating, achieving, and progressing together: Mapping a new path forward. This program allows more time for informal and meaningful conversations that focus on understanding associates’ career interests, discussing strengths and opportunities, and creating development plans that allow us to grow our talent across the Company. MyCompass@HBC will continue in 2017, with further enhancements and improvements. 45 ENGAGING OUR PEOPLE 2016 COMPLIANCE REVIEW Our company is committed to maintaining high standards for how we conduct and grow our business and to doing the right thing for the right reason. Our 2016 Compliance Review included information on our HBC Code of Business Conduct, Information Security, Health and Safety, Social Media, and Social Compliance. Associates throughout the company, at all levels and under all banners, read and digitally acknowledged policies that are at the core of how we do business at HBC. In 2016, HBC had a completion rate of 99% for all requirements during Compliance Review. WORK-LIFE BAL ANCE IN NORTH AMERICA We recognize the importance of having workPARENTAL LEAVE PERSONAL LEAVES life balance, and offer a number of programs that OF ABSENCE provide greater flexibility in how associates manage In 2016, we introduced to our more than 4,300 salaried associates in the United States, their time. We also seek ways to provide new and a Parental Leave benefit that provides new We recognize there are times when an associate needs time off that is not innovative offerings that continue to make HBC a parents with two weeks of paid leave, in otherwise protected under either the great place to work. In 2016, we launched addition to the short-term disability benefits disability or statutory leave protection they receive, following the birth of a child or several new programs: placement of a child for adoption or foster care. programs. In those instances, HBC offers associates in the U.S. and Canada the opportunity for a personal leave of absence of up to 12 weeks. GRADUATED RETURN FLEXIBLE PTO TO WORK EMPLOYEE ASSISTANCE A new Flexible PTO (Paid Time Off) program was rolled As an alternate to Parental Leave, PROGRAM (EAP) out to more than 4,000 corporate and distribution center we also introduced a Graduated Return to salaried associates based in North America. Starting as a Work Program in the U.S., which provides HBC offers our more than 46,000 North pilot program, Flexible PTO is a combination of traditional eligible new parents up to eight weeks of full American associates and their dependents vacation, personal time, and sick days. It affords associates pay while working reduced hours during their an Employee Assistance Program (EAP) the flexibility to take time off as needed, with manager transition back to a normal work schedule, that provides confidential support for approval and coordination with their team, without a prealso following the birth of a child or placement everyday challenges, and for more serious determined number of days for the year. of the child for adoption or foster care. problems, at no cost to the associate. 46 ENGAGING OUR PEOPLE WORK-LIFE BAL ANCE AT GALERIA KAUFHOF At Galeria Kaufhof, we have an agreement with the overall works council on family-friendly measures, such as: • job-sharing, where two employees share a job or complement each other in their field of work; • a sabbatical year at 80% of salary, available after four years of unchanged work time (5th year leave); • job guarantee after parental leave; • company parental leave, up to a maximum of 6 years total (after statutory parental leave + parental leave, according to collective agreement); • leave to care for family members, young and old, who are in need of nursing care (in addition to statutory rights additional nursing period of max. 1 year); • part-time for management staff; and • flexible working models, such as part-time employment for old-age pensioners, flexible schedules or trust-based working hours as well as flexible break and vacation times. 47 ENGAGING OUR PEOPLE HEALTH AND SAFET Y IN CANADA we have reduced our number of reported claims by 4% and reduced our Lost Time Claims by 17%. 121 out of 166 locations have achieved a full year without a lost time injury We believe that all injuries are preventable. —that represents almost ¾ of all buildings across Canada. Our vision of zero injuries is based on the premise that safety in the workplace is the joint responsibility 146 out of 166 locations (88%) have achieved 100% of the Company, management, associates, and compliance for monthly H&S committee meetings and site business partners. inspections for the entire year. Our logistics network continues Our defining objectives are to: to achieve new records of zero lost-time injuries with three out of four locations achieving zero lost time injuries for 2016. PREVENT ALL INJURIES Our flagship Montreal Hudson’s Bay store, with 850 associates PROMOTE THE EARLY AND SAFE on eight floors, has also achieved a full year without a lost time RETURN TO WORK PROGRAM injury. Our stores in the province of Quebec had only nine lost-time injuries for the entire province, which includes 27 KEEP UP TO DATE ON HEALTH stores and more than 4,500 associates. AND SAFET Y ACTS, REGUL ATIONS AND STANDARDS CONTRIBUTE TO POSITIVE CASH FLOW 48 ENGAGING OUR PEOPLE INJURY PREVENTION RETURN TO WORK PROGRAM We take all reasonable care to prevent incidents through hazard This program helps injured associates by promoting recovery while recognition, risk assessment, and hazard control. All HBC associates allowing them to keep their work routine and income consistent. Early are required to report any injuries, near misses, and hazards while return to work reduces recovery time and helps maintain associate working. All workplace incidents are investigated to identify the engagement. We consider our early and safe return to work program a root cause and we implement appropriate corrective actions. It is our win-win scenario that benefits both associates and the company. expectation that each location is inspected at least once per month to identify hazards so that we may eliminate them at the source or implement appropriate controls. COMPLIANCE Through our yearly Health & Safety Management System Review we continue to improve our programs and practices to comply with regulatory requirements. 49 ENGAGING OUR PEOPLE CONTRIBUTING TO POSITIVE CASH FLOW One of the many benefits that come with good safety performance is reduced costs IN NORTH AMERICA, related to workplace injuries. We strive to achieve lower Workers’ Compensation our key focus is on accident prevention and awareness and we continue to see a insurance premiums that come with fewer injuries. decline in the frequency of our Workers’ Compensation and lost-time claims. Our efforts have resulted in an 8% reduction in the frequency of claims from 2014 to IN EUROPE, 2016 based on a measurement of hours worked in the U.S. we’re equally dedicated to helping our Galeria Kaufhof associates stay healthy and well, and to providing a safe and hazard-free working environment. In Canada, we continue to pursue our incentive program with Alberta WCB’s Partners in Injury Reduction. Occupational Health and Safety is highly regulated in Germany. Each Galeria Kaufhof store has a formal joint management-worker Health and Safety (H&S) Committee, which receives support from the Health and Safety Officer at headquarters. Medical care for work-related accidents is carried by the employer’s liability insurance association (Berufsgenossenschaft). At Galeria Kaufhof, the number of work-related accidents has remained stable at a rate that is more than 30% better than comparable companies in Germany; the number of work-related accidents leading to more than three days of absence from work was 16.6 per 1,000 associates in 2016. The promotion of safety at work is an important management duty. At Galeria Kaufhof, it is expected that managers act in a consistent and exemplary manner. Associates regularly receive instruction, training, and the necessary equipment so they can assume responsibility for occupational safety, recognize and avert dangers and risks, and take the required precautions. In 2017 Galeria Kaufhof will expand the existing mandatory risk assessments to include mental risks as well as physical risks. Evaluations include different psychologically significant influences, such as the intensity of work, social support in the workplace and the duration, location and distribution of working time. 50 ENGAGING OUR PEOPLE WELLNESS PROGRAMS TRANS-INCLUSION HEALTH & WELLNESS GALERIA KAUFHOF DOGS AT HBC AT WORK NIGHT RUN AT WORK At HBC, every individual—including To encourage associates to stay fit and In 2016, the 13th annual Galeria customers, associates, and all others— productive, Galeria Kaufhof has been In 2015, HBC’s Canadian Kaufhof Night Run welcomed 3,000 Corporate offices were selected to should be treated according to their working to implement a corporate health participants, including 300 Galeria gender identity. We respect and affirm management program at headquarters test pilot D@WG (Dogs at Work Kaufhof Associates who train together Group) Programs. The launch day each person’s right to self-identify and and in selected stores in Germany. Tips as part of the Kaufhof Sports Club. access facilities that reflect their gender on healthy eating and ergonomically welcomed more than 100 furry Now an established race in Cologne, friends to our offices and was identity, and each person’s right to be designed workplaces help associates the Night Run gives participants a addressed in a way that accords with that improve their physical and mental such a great success that we have choice of a 5 km or 10 km distance. since instituted a program that lets identity. wellness and, in June, a health fair at headquarters provided information for a associates bring their dogs to work more healthy work day: on the last Friday of every month Experts measured blood pressure, made throughout the year, and every postural diagnostics, or conducted a stress Friday during the summer months. check. Small changes like using the stairs more often or standing during a phone call can have a positive impact. 51 REPORTING PARAMETERS ABOUT THIS REPORT In defining the content of this report, we referred to the principles of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) to ensure a focused and thoughtful approach. The scope of this report encompasses Hudson’s Bay, Home Outfitters, Lord & Taylor, Saks Fifth Avenue and Saks Fifth Avenue OFF 5TH in North America, and Galeria Kaufhof, Galeria Inno and Sportarena in Europe. Financial reporting is in local currency unless otherwise stated. REPORTING PERIOD: JANUARY 1 TO DECEMBER 31, 2016 Date of last report: June 2015 | Reporting cycle – annual Contact for questions regarding corporate social responsibility: hbc.communications@hbc.com SCOPE OF OPERATIONS REPORT CONTENT HUDSON’S BAY IN CANADA We report on the four areas of our operations No trees were harmed in the production of 90 Stores we operate banner stores in that have a substantial impact on our internal this report. In line with our commitment seven provinces: Alberta, British and external stakeholders: to the environment, the 2016 CSR Report Columbia, Manitoba, Nova Scotia, I. Investing in Our Community is available exclusively online on our LORD & TAYLOR Ontario, Quebec and Saskatchewan. II. Contributing to a Sustainable Environment corporate website at hbc.com. 50 Stores III. Sourcing Ethically HOME OUTFITTERS IN THE UNITED STATES IV. Engaging Our People 54 Stores we operate stores in 34 states. Alabama, Arizona, California, SECTION PAGE MEASUREMENT SAKS FIFTH AVENUE Colorado, Connecticut, Delaware, Florida, Georgia, Hawaii, Illinois, Corporate Overview 6 Number of HBC stores in each banner by province/state 41 Stores Indiana, Kansas, Kentucky, 6 Number of HBC associates SAKS OFF 5TH Louisiana, Maryland, Investing in Our Community 8 HBC Foundation donations 118 Stores Massachusetts, Michigan, Minnesota, Mississippi, Missouri, 14 Saks donations GALERIA KAUFHOF Nevada, New Hampshire, New 18 Lord & Taylor donations 100 Stores Jersey, New York, North Carolina, Ohio, Oklahoma, Oregon, Contributing to a 25 Waste-diversion rates GALERIA INNO Pennsylvania, South Carolina, Sustainable Environment 16 Stores Tennessee, Texas, Virginia and 29 GHG emissions Wisconsin Sourcing Ethically 33 Countries where HBC sources SPORTARENA 13 Stores 34 Supplier audit results IN EUROPE Top issues we operate in Germany, Belgium 35 and Ireland. IN ASIA we operate in Japan. 52
