Annual Report 2016 Plan, contribute, prepare and achieve 4 steps for your life plans 1 TABLE OF CONTENTS About This Report 03 07 A Message from the Executive Board 12 16 Key Performance Organizational Indicators Profile Strategy 28 32 Management 34 40 Economic Social, Environmental, and Financial and Stakeholder Analysis Management Awards and Recognition 58 60 GRI Content Summary 2 PLAN “My Brasilprev plan is mainly how I plan my future with peace of mind. I want to have an income, travel a lot and, maybe, build a house on the beach.” Heloísa de Oliveira Santos, 27, is an economist and a Brasilprev client for four years. About This Report For the third year in a row, Brasilprev Seguros throughout the text. This publication was not e Previdência S.A. adopts G4, the latest versubject to external verification. G4-22 | G4-33 sion of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) guidelines and indicators, for its annual perforTo request information and/or if you have any mance and management report by using the questions about this document, please email Core “in accordance” criteria. This document comunicacao_corporativa@brasilprev.com.br. G4-31 reports activities from January 1 to December 31, 2016 and also follows the recommenIDENTIFIED MATERIAL ASPECTS dations of the Brazilian Association of Public AND BOUNDARIES Companies (ABRASCA). The financial stateG4-18 | G4-19 | G4-20 | G4-21 | G4-23 | G4-24 | ments include all of the company’s operations. G4-25 | G4-26 | G4-27 G4-17 | G4-28 | G4-30 | G4-32 In order to prepare the contents of the 2016 Annual Report and constantly improve the relData and information were gathered from inevance and transparency of the information, terviews with executives. The Sustainability the company promoted a review of its mateCommission, the Executive Board, the Advisory riality matrix. The process was in line with the Committee, and the Board of Directors all GRI G4 guidelines, in compliance with the four authorized the contents hereof. Stakeholder principles that guide the definition of contents engagement approach and frequency are dein a sustainability report: sustainability context, scribed throughout this report, especially the stakeholder inclusiveness, materiality, and comchapter Social, Environmental, and Stakeholder pleteness. Preparation weighed the analysis of Management, wherein specific initiatives rethe axes of impact versus influence. For the imgarding the relationship with each of these pact axis, online polls with the internal audience audiences are approached based on the com(shareholders and employees), interviews with pany’s strategy. G4-26 the company’s executives, and an on-site panel attended by officers, superintendents, and manAny potential restatements of the information proagers that report directly to the Executive Board, vided during previous fiscal years are indicated as well as studies on future megatrends and 3 G4-18 | G4-19 | G4-20 | G4-21 | G4-23 | G4-24 |G4-25 | G4-26 | G4-27 prospects were taken into account. As for the and competition analysis. During prioritization, influence axis, in addition to an online poll with any issues raised were grouped into the three external stakeholders – which includes clients, priorities of Brasilprev’s sustainability strategy: providers, business partners, and representaformation of the retirement culture, responsible tives from academia, industry organizations, management, and responsible investing. As a environmental associations, and the community result of these efforts, 14 material issues were –, there were interviews with experts in financial raised by both internal and external audiences literacy, responsible investing, financial market/ as being most relevant to Brasilprev’s operaretirement, and sustainability, besides media tions, according to the following illustration: Sustainability education and awareness Responsible investment Innovation management Generation of continuous results Ethics, anticorruption and Talent attraction, development Retirement life money launderand retention cycle consulting ing prevention * Relationship with industry Transparent communications Financial organizations, the community security for Financial development of households and government consumers Sales force training * Operational optimization and green IT Growth and new markets * Legal and regulatory management Transgenerational challenge Financial literacy and retirement education Resilience to political and economic instabilities Respect for human rights and diversity Supplier relationship management Importance and relevance of economic, social and environmental impacts for the organization * Formation of the Retirement Culture Priority Issues Issues Brasilprev Define as High-Priority Responsible Investing Very Important Issues Responsible Management Important Issues 4 G4-18 | G4-19 | G4-20 | G4-21 | G4-23 | G4-24 |G4-25 | G4-26 | G4-27 In addition to the issues that were already identihereof. Additionally, even though there are no refied as high-priority, the Executive Board added lated GRI indicators, information about how the three more that they considered relevant to the company tackles the issue of the transgeneracompany: legal and regulatory management; tional challenge was added. relationship with industry organizations, the community, and government; and operational This document contains GRI indicators and asoptimization and green information technology. pects that the company already responded to during the previous cycle, besides those that To better understand Brasilprev’s management were added after the materiality review, which strategy and model, a few indicators regarding are as follows: G4-LA12, G4-LA13, G4-LA15 and growth and new markets; talent attraction, deG4-SO10. Despite not having an associated GRI velopment, and retention; and supplier relationaspect, the innovation issue is covered, notwithship management are also a part of the contents standing the quality of the account. Material issues Related G4 aspects 1. Formation of the retirement culture Financial Literacy and Retirement Education (initiatives to raise awareness of the importance of financial literacy and Product and Service Labeling long-term accumulation of funds) Sales Force Training Product and Service Labeling (sales force training in financial literacy and retirement education) Retirement Life Cycle Consulting (retirement plan adjustment and follow-up throughout the relationship Product and Service Labeling cycle for clients) Transgenerational Challenge No related GRI aspect (challenges to offer solutions that help the new generations and the demographic context – longevity, aging population, and falling birth rate, Information on this topic can be found affecting the Brazilian retirement model) throughout the document Financial Development of Households (insertion of retirement plans in family planning, especially women Local Community increasingly acquiring this product) 2. Responsible investing Responsible Investment Management Economic Performance (adoption of sustainability criteria – environmental, social, and Product and Service Portfolio (FS) governance aspects – in investment management) Shareholder Activism (FS) Generation of Continuous Results Economic Performance (search for continuous results for the business as a way to honor the Indirect Economic Impacts commitments made to stakeholders) Investments Financial Security for Consumers Product and Service Labeling (responsibility and transparency when investing and looking for the best Client Privacy long-term risk-reward ratio for clients) Product and Service Labeling (FS) Legal and Regulatory Management Compliance (SO) (compliance with retirement regulations, adjusting to new industry demands) Unfair Competition 3. Responsible management Transparent Communications Compliance (PR) (communications with an appropriate, assertive and transparent language using a range of client support channels that serves the various audiences and is periodically assessed) Marketing communications 5 G4-18 | G4-19 | G4-20 | G4-21 | G4-23 | G4-24 |G4-25 | G4-26 | G4-27 Ethics, Anticorruption and Money Laundering Prevention Policymaking (prevention and monitoring of corruptionand money laundering-related Audit (FS) issues, safeguarding the assets under management and the company’s image and reputation) Anticorruption Innovation No related GRI aspect (continuous improvement of products, services, and internal processes Information on this topic can be found as a way to adapt the business model to the new trends) throughout the document Relationship with Industry Organizations, the Community Mechanisms to File Complaints Related and Government to the Impacts on Society (participation and leadership in the furtherance of dialogue and engagement with industry organizations as well as community and Mechanisms to File Complaints Related government bodies) to Human Rights Operational Optimization and Green Information Technology No related GRI aspect (use of technology in the optimization of operations / processes and as a Information on this topic can be found tool to make it easier to interface with stakeholders) throughout the document Suggested indicators Employment Talent Attraction, Development and Retention Occupational Health and Safety (periodic corporate education, assessment, and feedback, organizational Training and Education acculturation, promotion of quality of life, benefit offering, increased Equal Pay Between Men and Women satisfaction, motivation and professional self-actualization and the Diversity and Equal Opportunity search for gender equality in positions and pay) Mechanisms to File Complaints Related to Labor Practices Training and Education Growth and New Markets Product and Service Portfolio (FS) (inclusion of retirement culture in all social strata – classes, income, etc. – and offering of new products in line with the industry’s evolution) Local Community (FS) Supplier Review Regarding the Impact Supplier Relationship Management on Society (social and environmental risk management in the supply chain Supplier Review Regarding Labor Practices attention to impact on the environment and human rights, for instance) Supplier Review Regarding Human Rights Based on these efforts, Brasilprev hereby showstrategy, and approaches to stakeholders, accases its performance, managerial practices, cording to the topics of interest to both internal and external audiences. Any issues raised were grouped into the three priorities of Brasilprev’s sustainability strategy: formation of the retirement culture, responsible management, and responsible investing. 6 A Message from the Executive Board G4-1 Clients, innovation, prominence, and operational In 2016, we also redoubled our efforts oriefficiency. These four priorities were established ented towards sustainable development. In in 2016 to guide the development of Brasilprev’s addition to renewing our commitment to the strategic plan for the next few years. Global Compact, to which we have been signatories since 2008, we signed the Principles With these guidelines, major deliveries and for Responsible Investment (PRI) and the Green changes were already made, such as the creBond Statement. We have also created the ation of the Client Support Service, which aims Retirement Primer, a concept that encompasses to increase interaction with our 1.98 million cliall financial literacy and retirement education efents, and a superintendence that is focused on forts conducted by Brasilprev, one of the focuses client relationship management. In turn, innovaof the company’s sustainability strategy. tion is now a part of our corporate strategy as a way to reinforce the construction of an enviIn short, this year was especially prosperous for ronment that fosters the necessary creativity and Brasilprev, which closed the cycle with BRL 199.1 agility for the company’s perpetuity. After all, the billion in assets under management, a 33% gain swift technological and behavioral changes the over the end of 2015. As for net deposits and world has been going through directly affect the revenue, growth was 25.6% and 28.1%, respecbusiness environment and we would like to be tively, which ensured the company’s continued well inserted in that context. market leadership in these indicators. We have remained active in our relationship with This report contains these results in detail as well the government, regulatory agencies, and indusas the main projects, activities, and strategies try institutions, participating in various forums the company has created, adopted, and imand commissions to improve the retirement proved throughout the year. None of this would market and playing a key role in several discushave been possible without our engaged group sions, such as, for instance, the making of CMN of employees. This team put Brasilprev on the Resolution No. 4,444. Best 150 Companies to Work For list by Guia Você S/A, a publication of EXAME magazine. As for operational efficiency, it is worth highlightWe would also like to thank our shareholders ing the completion of another effort to combine for their valuable contributions to the business, the company’s retirement system and all datawhich range from the wide distribution network bases into a single technological platform. of Banco do Brasil branches to the technical and technological contributions Principal acquired from multiple markets across the globe. Please enjoy! 7 Heloísa de Oliveira Santos, 27, is an economist and a Brasilprev client for four years. Key Performance Indicators Net Income (In Millions of BRL) Net Income (In millions of BRL) 987.3 1,009.0 860.8 582.5 484.0 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Until December 2016, the adjusted result before taxes and dividends was BRL1.7 billion, a 16% growth over the adjusted result before taxes and dividends for the same period in 2015. Until December 2016, the accumulated adjusted net income reached BRL1 billion, a 17.2% growth over the adjusted net income for the same period in 2015, which was BRL860.8 million (the net income with the extraordinary effects of reversing technical provisions was BRL1.2 billion). 8 Total Revenue Brasilprev Total Revenue Market (In Millions of BRL) (In Millions of BRL) (%) CAGR 27% – 2012-2016 (%) CAGR 14% – 2012-2016 Total Revenue – Brasilprev Total Revenue – Market (In millions of BRL) (In millions of BRL) (%) CAGR 27% – 2012-2016 (%) CAGR 14% – 2012-2016 117,703 98,634 83,540 70,461 73,734 47,620 37,162 31,227 23,177 32% 18,224 18% 19% 55% 13% 27% 35% 19% 28% 5% 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Ativos sob Gestão – Brasilprev Source: Brasilprev e FenaPrevi Ativos sob Gestão – Mercado (R$ milhões) (R$ milhões) (%) CAGR 31% – 2012-2016 (%) CAGR 18% – 2012-2016 Assets under Management – Brasilprev Assets under Management – Market (In millions of BRL) (In millions of BRL) 661,590 (%) CAGR 31% – 2012-2016 (%) CAGR 18% – 2012-2016 536,284 442,005 373,163 338,562 199,147 149,741 113,314 26% 84,556 21% 23% 67,574 18% 37% 34% 32% 33% 10% 25% 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Source: Brasilprev and FenaPrevi Captação Líquida PGBL e VGBL – Brasilprev Captação Líquida PGBL e VGBL – Mercado (R$ milhões) (R$ milhões) (%) CAGR 22% – 2012-2016 (%) CAGR 13% – 2012-2016 Net Deposits – Brasilprev Net Deposits – Market (In millions of BRL) (In millions of BRL) (%) CAGR 22% – 2012-2016 (%) CAGR 13% – 2012-2016 56,447 46,571 38,550 35,115 28,527 29,344 22,712 20,574 13,069 14,124 30% 31% 61% 46% 21% 21% 8% 10% 26% -16% 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Source: Brasilprev and Quantum Axis 9 Agreements by Product 2,752,790 3,280,318 3,649,520 4,097,292 4,601,741 65 68 60 63 57 37 35 33 31 29 7 5 4 4 3 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Traditional PGBL VGBL Administrative Expenses (%) Total Controllable 0.49 0.43 0.36 0.33 0.26 0.27 0.21 0.18 0.15 0.12 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 PGBL and VGBL Withdrawal Rate – The lower, the better Brasilprev Market (%) (%) 8.7 8.8 9.6 9.4 9.3 10.4 10.6 11.1 11.2 12.9 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Source: FenaPrevi 10 Total Distribution of Value Added (DVA) Distribution of Social and (In millions of BRL) Environmental Investment (%) 23,137 16,069 Culture Sports Education 10,139 6,218 Quality of Life 3,615 Other Social Projects Environment 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Distribution of Value Added (DVA) (%) Retained Shareholders Employees Government Clients Earnings (dividends) Employees by Type of Employment Contract Trainees Interns Part-Time Staffers (apprentices) 11 CONTRIBUTE “I believe a retirement plan is key for me to be able to spend even more time with my family in the future. If I could, I would have started earlier, because these first few years are invaluable.” Guilherme Marques, 35, is a physical therapist and a Brasilprev client for eight years. Organizational Profile COMPANY PROFILE G4-8 | G4-9 Created in 1993, Brasilprev Seguros e Previdência With the mission of delivering financial-security S.A. is one of the largest retirement companies in solutions and high-quality services to enable life Brazil. Sustainable growth, consistent manageplans, the company offers affordable retirement ment, and the strength of our shareholders are a plans to individuals and businesses in the PGBL hallmark of the company, which specializes in and and VGBL categories. A highly qualified team dedicates itself to this business exclusively. G4-3 manages assets and invests in fixed-income funds, which are balanced with variable income A privately-held corporation, its shareholders are or the Life Cycle concept. PFG do Brasil Ltda., a Principal company, and BB Seguros Participações S.A., a wholly-owned The company’s client portfolio reached 1.98 milsubsidiary of BB Seguridade, a holding compalion people at the end of 2016. Out of this total, ny established in December 2012 as the insur87% have individual plans out of which 31% ance, capitalization, and retirement division of are geared towards children and teenagers – and Banco do Brasil. Both institutions stand out in 13% are in corporate plans. The total number of the financial market because of the strength of VGBL plans at the end of the period was 1.6 miltheir brands. Together, they have over three cenlion. PGBL plans worked out at 662,000. There turies of experience and are key to the success were also 142,000 traditional plans, but those of Brasilprev, which is growing at a rate faster are not sold anymore. G4-FS6 than the market where it operates. G4-7 12 At the end of the fiscal year, the company had a With the Banco do Brasil distribution network as 40.5% market share in total revenue, a percentage the primary sales channel for a full portfolio of that ensures its position as a market leader in this insurance products, retirement plans, capitalizaindicator. Brasilprev also continued as the leading tion bonds, and dental care plans, through its company in net deposits, with 50.5%, and PGBL own brokerage firm, BB Seguridade is a now a and VGBL assets, with a 30.9% market share. In prominent player in the market in all the segments December 2016, total assets under management where it operates and has become the 11th largworked out at BRL199.1 billion, a 33% increase est company in market value at BM&FBOVESPA, over 2015. The adjusted net income, which exwith an adjusted net income of BRL4.1 billion in cludes extraordinary items, was BRL1 billion, a 2016, a 4.1% increase over 2015. 17.2% growth versus the previous year. Principal Headquartered in São Paulo, Brasilprev operates Having repositioned its brand in 2016 (formeracross Brazil, distributing its products mainly known as the Principal Financial Group), the ly via the 5,400 Banco do Brasil branches.. In Principal is the global leader in financial investDecember 2016, the company had 601 full-time ment management and was established in July staffers, four trainees, 18 interns, and 23 appren1879, in Des Moines, Iowa. The company has tices. Out of these, 134 are consulting specialists become an institution that makes it easier to distributed all over Brazil. G4-5 | G4-6 help individuals and businesses build, protect, and promote their financial well-being by offering SHAREHOLDER PROFILE them retirement plans, insurance policies, and asset management efforts. Additionally, they Banco do Brasil | BB Seguridade help their clients achieve their goals – by offering Created in October 1808, Banco do Brasil S.A. them groundbreaking ideas, the ability to invest, (BB) is one of the largest financial institutions and real solutions to attain financial progress. in Latin America, with operations in 23 countries, a portfolio with over 64 million clients, and Listed on the New York Stock Exchange, it is one 102,000 employees. The bank’s mission is to be of the largest financial companies in the United a profitable and competitive bank, with public States and focuses on retirement plans, funds spirit in each action with clients, shareholders, management, as well as health and life insurand the community as whole. ance for individuals, businesses, and institutions. The Principal has been a Brasilprev shareholder It operates in 99.7% of Brazilian cities with over since 1999 and is very well rated by credit rating 5,400 branches (the largest proprietary network agencies: A+ (superior) by A.M. Best Company; in Brazil), 1,705 minibranches, 9,480 electronic AA(very strong) by Fitch; A1 (good) by Moody’s; service units, and 40,542 automated teller maand A+ (strong) by Standard & Poor’s. chines – which also represent the largest network in Brazil. At the end of 2016, net income With 591.6 billion dollars under management, reached BRL8.034 billion, with a total of 37.3 offices in 18 countries in multiple continents, million checking accounts and more than 39.2 they have over 10,000 employees in the United million savings accounts. States alone and more than 15,000 around the world. In March 2016, the Principal was recIn December 2012, it established the subsidiognized, for the sixth time in a row, as one of ary BB Seguridade, a holding that operates in the 100 Most Ethical Companies in the World the retirement industry. Its equity stakes are by the Ethisphere® Institute and was listed as a currently organized into two segments: (i) risk Fortune 500 company. and accumulation businesses: affiliates as joint ventures or companies with private partners that sell insurance, retirement, capitalization, reinsurance, and dental care products; and (ii) operate distribution efforts: a wholly-owned subsidiary that sells insurance, retirement, capitalization bonds, and private dental care plans. 13 The two shareholders of Brasilprev stand out in the financial market because of their strong brands. Together, they have over three centuries of experience. Brasilprev Shareholding Structure on December 31, 2016 (%) Common Preferred Total Stock Stock Capital (ON) (PN) CORPORATE IDENTITY G4-56 Mission Vision To provide our clients with financialTo be the leading retirement trustee in security solutions and high-quality Brazil, admired for our contribution to services to enable their life plans. the sustainable development of Brazil and Brazilians. Core Values Core values make up the culture of an organization and, at Brasilprev, they are divided into two groups that help employees accomplish our mission and vision statements. Our Commitments Our Way These are the obligations we contract These are the attitudes and and the promises we make to our behaviors that typify the personality strategic audiences. of our associates. Focus on the Client Sustainable Committed Solicitous Development Results Entrepreneurial Positive Integrity Innovative Quality 14 Sustainability G4-15 The corporate vision of being “the leading retireIn order to strength our commitment to responment trustee in Brazil, admired for our contribusible investing, we signed two new voluntary tion to the sustainable development of Brazil and agreements. The first is about the Principles Brazilians” reinforces our commitment to the perfor Responsible Investment (PRI), a gatherpetuity of our business. A long-term fiduciary duty ing of global investors in association with the to clients and the recognition of the institutional Environment Program Finance Initiative (UNEP investor’s role that enables the influence of posiFI) and the Global Compact, both spearheaded tive changes in society are a part of this context. by the United Nations. Furthermore, we signed the Green Bond Statement – Brazil, led by the We understand that sustainability is an attribute Climate Bonds Initiative (CBI), the PRI, as well that permeates our business model and means as SITAWI Finanças do Bem, which promotes a “contributing to the formation of the retirement low-carbon economy. culture and furthering the creation of a virtuous cycle of economic, environmental, and social Moreover, responsible management concerns development through our responsible busiwere a fixture in all of the company’s activities. ness and investment management efforts.” Highlights included creating the Sustainability This definition is formally stated in the Letter of Commission, which followed up on, promoted, Sustainability Guidelines and the policy passed and reported Brasilprev’s performance to the by our Board of Directors: while the former Executive Board and the Board of Directors, and spreads the guiding principles about this issue, holding a 16-hour sustainability course that conthe latter supports the decision-making process. tributed to internal acculturation through business-related concepts that tackled this issue, The creation of the Retirement Primer concept in which is increasingly a part of the daily routine 2016 was a major breakthrough in the formation of of departments. the retirement culture and brought together all the initiatives of this nature. The purpose is to strengthen Brasilprev’s position as a company that fosters financial literacy and retirement education. The creation of the Retirement Primer concept in 2016 was a major breakthrough in the formation of the retirement culture and brought together all the initiatives of this nature. 15 Guilherme Marques, 35, is a physical therapist and a Brasilprev client for eight years. Management Corporate Governance G4-34 A solid governance structure based on an ethiindustry practices, we try to continuously imcal and transparent dialogue and an equal relaprove our processes and anticipate any regulationship with our stakeholders is one of our main tory changes in the retirement segment. attributes. This collective decision-making process strengthens our commitment to responIn 2016, the management team changed: Mr. sible management based on our mission stateIlton Luís Schwaab became Chief Commercial ment, our vision statement, and our core values. and Marketing Officer, a position that used to be filled by Mr. Sergio Peres. During this period, the In line with the guidelines of the Brazilian Institute Sustainability Commission was created. of Corporate Governance (IBGC) and the best 16 Governance Structure Executive Bodies Nonexecutive Bodies Meeting of Shareholders Supervisory Board Board of Directors Advisory Audit Financial Committee Committee Committee Risk Product and Pricing Technology Committee Committee Committee Chief Executive Officer Technical Risk Management Officer Executive Board Ethics Personnel Strategic Commission and Internal Product and Analysis and Client Risk Sustainability CommunicaPricing Project Commission Commission Commission tions Commission Commission Commission Money Laundering Sponsorship Benefit Management and Prevention Forum Forum Review Forum Continuity Forum 17 Meeting of Shareholders Each shareholder sends one representative and they convene once a year for regular meetings or on an as-needed basis on special occasions. This is our main deliberative body. Shareholder representatives must examine, discuss, and vote on financial statements and deliberate on how net earnings and dividends should be apportioned. In addition, they choose the members of the Supervisory Board and approve the capital stock inflation adjustment. Boards • Supervisory Board: with meetings every Control Officer (with terms that are as long as three months, it is composed of four incumtheir tenure as officers), two shareholder-apbent supervisors and four substitutes, who pointed members, and a permanent guest, the are all appointed by shareholders for oneTechnical Risk Management Officer. year terms. They are tasked with investigating the actions and finances of managers and •  Product and Pricing Committee: it estabchoosing which issues are to be discussed lishes the company’s general product and during the meetings of shareholders. pricing policies and guidelines in order to improve the investment portfolio and strat•  oard of Directors (B of D): this is our B egies and follows up on industry trends. It highest managerial authority and it is tasked is composed of the Chief Executive Officer, with the general direction of our businesses the Chief Product and Operating Officer, the by following up on our performance indicaChief Planning and Control Officer, the Chief tors and drafting, analyzing, and approving Financial Officer, the Chief Commercial and corporate strategies, business policies, and Marketing Officer (with terms that are as long decisions with a focus on quality and secuas their tenure as officers) as well as two othrity. Composed of eight full members and an er full members and two substitutes who are equal number of substitutes with three-year appointed by the shareholders. terms – reelections are allowed –, the Board of Directors holds meetings every three months Brasilprev has a Pricing Policy in place that govand special meetings on an as-needed basis. erns product sales according to the local laws The Chairman of the Board does not discharge and the company’s ethical principles. This any executive duties at Brasilprev, in line with document applies to the product portfolio and the best corporate-governance practices. covers any and all price strategy decisions, for various ranks, and establishes general pricing Committees guidelines for both the accumulation (contri• Advisory Committee: it is composed of the bution period) and distribution (annuitization Chief Executive Officer and two members from period) phases. G4-DMA: Product portfolio the Board of Directors, elected by shareholders by mutual agreement. The terms of mem• Technology Committee: it advises the bers are as long as their tenure as officers and Advisory Committee on issues pertaining directors and they are responsible for detectto information technology (IT) management. ing and assessing issues of interest to the Members are: the Chief Executive Officer, company and advising the Board of Directors the Chief Technology Officer (with terms on running the business. Three other subordithat are as long as their tenure as officers) nate committees support it: as well as two full members and two substitutes who are appointed by shareholders by •  isk Committee: follows up on and asR mutual agreement. sesses the operational, financial, strategic, legal, market, credit, reputational, liquidity, • Audit Committee: always operating in accorand underwriting risks in topics that involve dance with the Brazilian Federal Board of Inthe risk management guidelines and policies. surance (CNSP) Resolution No. 321/2015, it It is composed of: the Chief Executive Officer, is composed of three members: two of them the Chief Financial Officer, the Chief Product are appointed by shareholders and one is and Operating Officer, the Chief Planning and elected by mutual agreement between them. 18 Terms are one-year-long, but may be renewed • Financial Committee: it supports the Board for up to five. The rules and regulations cover of Directors by preparing general investment all of the body’s responsibilities. It also advispolicies and guidelines, among other funces the Board of Directors on audit functions, tions. These meetings, which are held once oversees activities, and reviews the efforts of a month, aim to analyze the performance of both independent and internal auditors. investment portfolios and the actions of Risk Management as well as make policies for later We have our own methodology, which covers review by the Board of Directors. It is comrisk-based process auditing and continuous posed of five members, including the Chief Exauditing, both passed by the Audit Committee ecutive Officer, the Chief Financial Officer, the (COAUD) and the Board of Directors. Every Chief Planning and Control Officer (with terms business cycle is analyzed based on the emthat are as long as their tenure as officers) as phasis rotation matrix, including the sustainabilwell as two full members and two substitutes ity-related risk assessment procedures. Audits who are appointed by shareholders, both with are carried out within three years, with an annual two-year terms (they may be reelected), in adschedule review. Both Audit Committee and dition to the Technical Risk Management OffiBoard of Directors must authorize any and all cer, who is invited to participate. exceptions. G4-DMA: Audit In 2016, our corporate-governance bodies had the following structure: Composition of governance groups by age span G4-LA12 30 or 30 or 30-50 30-50 50 or 50 or Body Total younger younger (%) years old years old (%) older older (%) Supervisory Board 8 0 0 4 50 4 50 Board of Directors 16 0 0 8 50 8 50 Executive Board 6 0 0 4 67 2 33 Financial Committee 7 0 0 4 57 3 43 Audit Committee 3 0 0 1 33 2 67 Advisory Committee 3 0 0 1 33 2 67 Product and Pricing 8 0 0 4 50 4 50 Committee Risk Committee 6 0 0 3 50 3 50 Technology 5 0 0 2 60 3 40 Committee Composition of governance groups by g ender G4-LA12 Body Total Women Women (%) Men Men (%) Supervisory Board 8 2 25 6 75 Board of Directors 16 4 25 12 75 Executive Board 6 0 0 6 100 Audit Committee 3 0 0 3 100 Financial Committee 7 0 0 7 100 Advisory Committee 3 0 0 3 100 Product and Pricing 8 1 13 7 88 Committee Risk Committee 6 0 0 6 100 Technology Committee 5 0 0 5 100 Members of commissions, forums, and the Technical Risk Management Department are not covered, since they are composed of full-time staffers contained in indicator G4-10. 19 Senior Management Tasked with leading the executive departments from each Brasilprev executive department of the company, it deploys strategic manage– and coordinated by the Strategic Management efforts based on the guidelines that were ment Superintendence. established by the Board of Directors. It is composed of six members, elected for three• Client Commission: Coordinated by the year terms (the Chief Executive officer, the Marketing Superintendent, it must assess and Commercial and Marketing Officer, the Chief submit to the Executive Board initiatives that Financial Officer, the Chief Technology Officer, carry out and improve upon the client strategy, the Chief Planning and Control Officer, and the which is geared towards making sure BrasilChief Product and Operating Officer). This body prev becomes a partner, promoting appropriis supported by the following commissions ate solutions timely, easily, and conveniently. throughout the decision-making process: Representatives from the superintendences of Upscale Business, Legal, Technical and Actu• Ethics Commission: it is broken down arial Services, Personnel and Processes, Strainto two divisions: an investigative one and tegic Management, Product, Operations, and a deliberative one. The investigative division Clients; as well as the Investment Information is composed of the Technical Risk Manageand Control and the Client Intelligence and ment Officer, the Legal Superintendent, the Management offices, besides the OmbudsPersonnel and Process Superintendent, and man’s Office participate. G4-DMA: Product and another superintendent who was cleared by service labeling | G4-DMA: Product portfolio the Executive Board for a one-year term. The deliberative division is composed of the • Personnel and Internal Communications Chief Executive Officer and two officers who Commission: it is tasked with helping the are elected every year. The Commission is Executive Board make decisions regarding in charge of reviewing and investigating any personnel management, internal commuand all cases reported to the integrity hotline, nications, and organizational climate. It is which receives complaints about acts that coordinated by the Personnel and Process breach the company’s Code of Conduct and Superintendence and composed of seven proposes the necessary actions and means representatives, from different Brasilprev exto spread and enforce this document. The ecutive departments, who are appointed by body is also tasked with recommending acsenior management for one-year terms. tions in the event of any deviations from the guidelines contained in the Code. • Product and Pricing Commission: it supports and advises the Executive Board on the • Strategic Analysis and Project Commispreparation of general product and pricing sion (CAEP): it is responsible for supporting policies and guidelines to improve the investany and all decisions about priorities in the ment portfolio, theses, and strategies and company’s project portfolio, strategic initiareview domestic and international market tives, goals, balanced scorecard (BSC) inditrends. It is composed of the superintendents cators, budget, and processes. With monthly from Products, Business and Retail, Stratemeetings, it is composed of six members gic Management, Controlling and Actuarial, with one-year terms – one superintendent Technology and Planning, Infrastructure, and Investment Control. 20 • Risk Commission: it is responsible for admajor risk management tool. The efforts invising the Executive Board on issues such clude an assessment of the most sensitive as the management and control of market, issues and the creation of action strategies. liquidity, credit, underwriting, reputational, These steps were completed in 2016, with operational, legal, and strategic risks. Its four crisis management processes and tests, inmembers represent Finance, Controlling and cluding communications, slated for 2017. G4Actuarial, Risk Management, and Products. DMA: Customer privacy | G4-DMA: Compliance • Sustainability Commission: created in • Money Laundering Prevention Forum: it is 2016 to support the incorporation of suscomposed of the managers from Controlling, tainability into the company’s management, it Business and Retail and Other Channels, aims to propose activities that are in line with Changes, Benefits and Rollovers, and Internal sustainability-related policies, guidelines, and Controls and it is responsible for discussing strategies; follow up on internal indicators and and deliberating on communications with the public reports; and report our performance Brazilian Financial Crimes Enforcement Netto the Executive Board. It takes place every work (COAF) about incidents that fall under three months and is composed of five memGroup 02, section II of Article 13 of SUSEP bers, namely, the Technical Risk Management Officer as well as the Planning and Administration, Product, Planning, Investment Infrastructure and Control superintendents, besides the Strategic Management Superintendent, who coordinates the Commission. The Sustainability Commission was created in 2016 as a way to Forums • Continuity and Management Forum: encourage adding this issue to composed of representatives from eight the company’s management. departments – Processes, Internal Controls and Compliance, Information Technology, Corporate Communications and Sustainability, Finance, Personnel Management, Infrastructure and Operations –, it is responsible for discussing the business continuity plan Rule No. 445/2012, which addresses the based on the pillars of personnel, processes, prevention and fight against money launderand technology, reporting to the Risk Coming-related crimes in fraudulent transactions. mission every six months and, every month, G4-DMA: Customer privacity to the Technical Risk Management Officer, who takes care of this issue at the company. • Sponsorship Forum: it assesses and reports His duties include preparing plans and tests to the Chief Executive Officer any and all sponto ensure the execution of key operations in sorship project proposals and defines how the different scenarios; keeping guidelines about cleared initiatives are supposed to be conductthis issue aligned; sharing information and ed, in addition to showcasing results. It is comdata that may impact business; and helping posed of the managers from Digital Channels, the Risk Commission with this issue. This Client Support Center, Corporate Communicaforum is also our deliberative body about tions and Sustainability, Communications, and reporting to the Risk Commission any casClient Intelligence and Management. es that are subject to the Brazilian Federal Department of Insurance (SUSEP) Rule No. • Benefit Review Forum: it must promote the 285, which formalizes the obligations of inreanalysis and/or review of denied and/or surance companies regarding the summagranted risk benefits Brasilprev has taken out. rized business continuity plan in contingency It is composed of the superintendents from and emergency scenarios. In 2016, a thorProducts, Operations, Legal, Business and ough process was carried out to ensure the Retail, and Actuarial as well as five substitutes. excellence of the business continuity plan, a 21 The following also support our governance: G4-DMA: • Ombudsman’s Office: in line with our vision, Labor practices grievance mechanisms | G4-DMA: Human we foster a culture of dialogue and communirights grievance mechanisms | G4-DMA: Grievance mechcation while upholding legal rules and regulaanisms for impacts on society | G4-DMA: Anti-competitive tions. We add value to all stakeholders strabehavior | G4-DMA: Anti-corruption | G4-DMA: Public policy tegically, promoting and treasuring business | G4-DMA: Customer privacy | G4-DMA: Compliance sustainability and balanced relationships. • Integrity Hotline: created in 2016 to improve Through ethical principles that favor impartialthe old ethics channel, it also adds to the ity and confidentiality, we aim to build a particfunctions of the Audit Committee channel. All ipative and democratic relationship. Because stakeholders may access it by calling 0800they are customized, our channels have one 741-0012 or going to linhadaintegridade. of the most diversified and all-encompassing com.br/brasilprev/ online. Confidentiality and operations among the ombudsman’s offices impartiality are guaranteed. There is no rein Brazil: an internal ombudsman’s office (for quirement to identify the complainant, who is employees), an external ombudsman’s office given a number to track how the case pro(for individuals, businesses, and Banco do gresses. This hotline receives complaints perBrasil branch employees), consultants, brotaining to acts that break the rules contained kers, Consumidor.gov, SUSEP, and suppliers. in the Code of Conduct, the company’s best practices, or the laws in force, such as those With a focus on streamlined, consensual, about workplace and sexual harassment, asand conclusive solutions, the Ombudsman’s sault and battery, discrimination, conflicts of Office contributes to out-of-court dispute resinterest, corruption, damage to assets, theft olution for the company and the legal system, and larceny, among others. which, as a result, helps Brazilian society. Its mediation, reconciliation, and conflict preven• Code of Conduct: in line with our corporate tion process has been publicly recognized, culture, the Code of Conduct formalizes the with over 10 external quality and innovation values and principles that should guide the awards and certificates and the adoption of actions of our employees, interns, trainees, the best market practices. apprentices, and members of corporate-governance bodies, with no difference between With a structure that allows direct interaction ranks. That document approaches issues with senior management, it recommends and such as ethics, individual responsibility, privpromotes improvements in organizational proilege, and conflicts of interest, among other cesses, thereby contributing to the mitigation major aspects to be observed inside and of operational risks and the satisfaction of the outside the work environment. After a 2015 parties involved, which strengthens and proparticipative review, with adjustments that tects the institution’s reputation. Certified to followed the best compliance practices adISO 9001 since 2008 and accredited in Brazil opted by the market, we developed an onand abroad, our Ombudsman’s Office follows line training tool in game format to showcase the mediation principles of the International the guidelines in an educational way and test Ombudsman Association (IOA) as well as the subject matter comprehension. All teams Brazilian Ombudsman Association (ABO). were invited to participate and 95.2% completed the activity. Furthermore, 100% signed MANAGEMENT MODEL the consent form contained in the document. We are constantly improving our management Anyone that joins Brasilprev is required to model to ensure good results and satisfy our undergo training and sign the consent form. stakeholders. Transparency and an incentive to The Code of Conduct is available online exchange experiences bear all the hallmarks of on the integrity hotline’s website as well as our company, which also adopts groundbreakBrasilprev’s Intranet and webpage. G4-56 ing tools, high-performance methods, and practices. Within this context, it is worth highlighting: 22 • Collective Decision-Making: in order to • Celebration: events and campaigns are held support the decision-making process, a to celebrate our achievements and results. They structure of commissions, committees, and also aim to value and motivate our professionals, forums composed of employees from several who contribute to our good performance. departments is maintained. Thus, it is possible to find points of convergence and develMANAGEMENT TOOLS op solutions in line with internal demands. We invest in proper management tools to ensure operational efficiency, excellence when support• Casual Environment: the company keeps ing clients and other stakeholders, and responsia work environment with open and functionble business dealings. Primary tools include: al spaces, which favors integration between teams and streamlines the decision-making • Global Reporting Initiative (GRI): this inprocess, in addition to strengthening concepts ternationally-recognized model enables the such as equality, proximity, and engagement. management and reporting of our financial, social, and environmental impacts, there• Shared Information: in internal-commuby supporting the evolution of sustainability nications channels, we use clear and plain practices at the organizational level. language to spread information about the insurance and retirement industry as well as • Balanced Scorecard (BSC): this methodolour corporate strategy, managerial practices, ogy allows you to measure and manage perand achievements effectively. formance by using accurate indicators based on the corporate strategy. With it, managers • Open Communications: we value the comare able to define departmental goals and munications, ideas, and demands of employees, promote organizational alignment by tackling who are encouraged to express their opinions. the challenges of each team member. • Opportunities: by using instruments to stim• Business Model Canvas: this allows you ulate the search for excellence and high perplan and visualize a business’ functions and formance, we encourage employees to plan their relations quickly, which helps the creation, and achieve their upward career mobility. differentiation, and innovation processes. • Recognition: aware of the importance of our • Performance Cycle: this is composed of teams to achieve good results, the compaseven phases throughout the year, ranging ny continuously recognize the commitment, from the definition of goals in line with the competence, experience, and dedication of BSC to the creation of personal developour employees. ment plans (PDPs). This includes the financial recognition of the profit-sharing plan (PSP) • Incentive to Innovation: as one of our key based on the performance of each employattributes and features, innovation is integratee regarding the established goals and the ed into our identity and strategy, which conadoption of corporate competencies. tributes to the release of all-new concepts and products in the Brazilian market (please refer to Competitive Edge and Intangible Assets). Brasilprev is constantly improving its management model to ensure good results and satisfy its stakeholders. 23 • Data Base Marketing (DBM): as a dataSATISFACTION SURVEY base that gathers registration and transacG4-DMA: Compliance | G4-DMA: Customer privacy | tional information about client plans, DBM G4-DMA: Labor practices grievance mechanisms | G4-PR5 allows you to analyze profiles, track behavWe monitor how performance, products, serioral trends, and prepare statistical models to vices, and management practices are perceived anticipate actions and create studies. by our stakeholders using frequent surveys. In addition to indicating satisfaction levels, results be• Project Management Office: it offers come elements that help us identify improvement methodological support to define, map, and opportunities and learn more about the needs and measure the performance of internal strateperceptions clients, employees, and partners. gic projects. To this end, we use enterprise project management (EPM) – which adds For clients, since 2012, we have been using the information, such as development steps, the satisfaction cycle, which is divided into three professionals involved, deadlines, and costs steps: an annual satisfaction survey (a quanti– as well as the Project Management Body of tative study, promoted with a large number of Knowledge (PMBOK), which helps define the people to map the client’s view of our products best way to manage a portfolio. and services), an in-depth interview (a poll with a group of participants who reported some level • Project Model Canvas: a collaborative of dissatisfaction during the previous step); and method to define a project plan without filling specific surveys (to delve into issues analyzed as out documents excessively. This methodolhigh-priority by previous surveys). ogy prioritizes the visual comprehension of concepts, engagement, and streamlined deIn order to quantify general satisfaction or a cision-making. specific item, we use a scale of 11 points (0 to 10), with 0 to 6 showing dissatisfaction, 7 to • Process Management: it analyzes and 8 showing satisfaction, and 9 and 10 showing manages our process portfolio to support delight. The company uses the Net Promoter the decision-making process, improve perScore (NPS) methodology, which considers as formance, and operational efficiency. a result the difference between the number of clients who are promoters (grades 9 and 10) and • Rolling Forecasts: these include simulations detractors (grades between 0 and 6) in the recthat support the decision-making process ommendation question. based on notes from potential deviations and distortions for periods of up to five semesters. Annual Satisfaction Survey: conducted in 2016 and also pertaining to the cycle from that • New Technological Platform: this is comsame year, this survey was prepared in assoposed of three initiatives – database restrucciation with the Innovare Institute’s Opinion turing (RBI), which works on merging databas+ Markey Survey and included a poll over the es to increase effectiveness when managing phone with approximately 2,300 individuals and data and preparing management information businesses all across Brazil. Satisfaction index panels and risk mitigation; a Wholesale proregarding products and services offered was gram, whose purpose is to modernize sales 80% for individuals and 70% for businesses and give flexibility and agility to retirement plan (both had been 75% in 2015). consulting; and UpPrev, which reviews processes involving retirement plan administration and system platform integration. Brasilprev invests in proper management tools to ensure operational efficiency, excellence when supporting clients and other stakeholders, and responsible business dealings. 24 Key positive factors continue to be the secu• Banco do Brasil Manager Satisfaction : it rity of a strong brand associated with Banco aims to measure perceptions of the quality of do Brasil and the vision of a guaranteed future sales and service support that this audience that our plans offer our clients. In turn, based is being offered. In 2016, the study found a on the NPS, we asked our clients whether or satisfaction rate of 95% among managers of not they would recommend us. The result was corporate plans and 94% among managers 29% among individuals (a 4% drop) and 18% of individual plans, the same rates achieved among representatives from corporate plans (15 in 2015, which showed we retained our percentage points less than the poll from the strong points, such as plan performance and year before). yield, besides consultant support during plan acquisition and after-sales care. Net Promoter Score (NPS) Results | Percentage Points • Corporate Client HR Satisfaction: the 2016 survey, which was answered by 252 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 groups of companies and conducted with Individuals 36 31 33 33 29 the heads of Human Resources in charge of Variation – managing our plans at their companies, got a 4 -5 2 0 -4 Individuals 97% satisfaction and delight rate because of Businesses 34 35 32 33 18 the support they received from our analysts. Variation – The previous year, that percentage had been -1 1 -3 1 -15 Businesses 95%. Among the strong suits they pointed out, we would like to highlight the clear lan• In-Depth Interviews: promoted in 2017 and guage we used in our communications, our pertaining to the 2016 cycle, we developed willingness to answer questions, as well as it with the support of the Innovare Institute’s the ample technical knowledge of our operaOpinion + Market Survey to understand the tions team. points made by 36 dissatisfied clients during the annual satisfaction survey. The results • Satisfaction with Client Support Center: pointed to a desire to receive more informaat the end of the telephone communications tion about the plans. To this end, since 2016, with our Client Support Center, clients have we have been working on the Client Support the option to rate the service they received. Service, which simplified the language we In 2016, our average satisfaction grade was use in our communications and created the 9.4 – the same result from 2015. Client Relationship Management Superintendence (please refer to the Clients page). • Organizational Climate: in order to assess the level of employee satisfaction with the • Specific Surveys: during the last fiscal year, management model and work environment, there was also the third step of the 2015 Satin association with the Principal, we conduct isfaction Cycle. We conducted approximately an organizational-climate survey every year. 350 interviews over the phone about granting In 2016, this voluntary questionnaire was anbenefits in order to review our services and swered by 91% of the audience, who rated client perceptions of our retirement plans the following categories: leadership, commitbefore, during, and after that phase. Results ment, quality of life, high-performance culture, pointed to evolving satisfaction regarding the and training. In the end, the general satisdistribution process and opportunities to imfaction rate reached 80%, a slight 3% drop prove communications. over 2015, which is still a good result for us. G4-DMA: Human rights grievance mechanisms 25 RISK MANAGEMENT G4-DMA: Compliance | G4-DMA: Customer privacy | G4-2 | G4-14 Maintaining and improving the risk management system are key to ensuring the protection of our business regarding our commitment to our clients and other stakeholders as well. Our processes aim to preserve liquidity, solvency, a balance between the benefit plans that were taken out based on perpetuity and compliance with our fiduciary duty. To this end, we aim to learn about and adopt the best industry practices and follow the most stringent economic and financial security standards and enforce advanced actuarial techniques. The strategy is constantly improved based on new challenges in an ever-changing society to better meet the requirements of the regulatory body. • Credit risk: this covers potential losses caused when counterparties default on fiManaging this issue is an attribute of the nancial obligations or credit conditions beTechnical Risk Management Officer and Internal come impaired (lower ratings). To minimize Audit Superintendent as well as any and all this type of risk, we only invest in partners business and process owners. This executive with high-quality credit ratings who undergo department is tasked with spreading the risk economic and financial checks periodically, management culture to all employees, advising within clear boundaries. the establishment of strategic guidelines on this issue, and striving for the proper identification, • Operational risk: this pertains to inademeasurement, management and reporting of corquate or deficient processes, errors, and porate risks that may compromise the achievemistakes in information technology systems, ment of the company’s goals. This department operational issues, and fraud or external inacts independently and reports directly to both cidents that are detrimental to operations or Chief Executive Officer and Advisory Committee. damage physical assets. The company manages this risk by improving and maintaining We also promote managing this issue using a maqualified procedures, processes and tools trix where key business risks are divided into eight and by mapping, monitoring, and assessing categories – market, liquidity, credit, operational, each step of the efforts. All loss factors stemunderwriting, legal, reputational, and strategic. ming from external processes, systems, people, and events are recorded in a database, • Market risk: the possibility of suffering losses which is used for setting new strategies. caused by fluctuations in asset prices or discrepancies between indexes and the maturities • Underwriting risk: this is about potenof long and short positions is monitored so that tial losses stemming from applying actuarial the risks we take follow the company-estabmethodologies or assumptions incorrectly, lished parameters. The investment strategies of which includes issues with technical specifieach portfolio or fund are thus assessed based cations and product pricing, which may entail on a set of specific metrics that size, control, acceptance, cancellation, longevity, mortality, and analyze market conditions. morbidity, and product design risks. Management efforts are made according to the rules • Liquidity risk: regarding this risk, we take on risk underwriting; a periodic follow-up to steps to prevent potential losses pertaining avoid deviations; product development in line to a lack of funds in order to honor the comwith market demands; reinsurance treaty covmitments we made on the scheduled dates. erage for extreme death and disability events; Mitigation takes place by evaluating cash a review of technical provisions, at least once flows through studies that consider multiple a year; consistency testing and actuarial recalscenarios, while analyzing reinvestment opculations to assess technical and operational tions to maximize the available amounts and adjustment. Additionally, the company conset thresholds for net funds. ducts an independent actuarial audit pursuant to the CNSP Resolution No. 311 of the Brazilian Federal Department of Insurance (SUSEP). 26 • Legal risk: this pertains to potential losses Because employee acculturation is one of the because of failure to comply with legal asfocal points of the Technical Risk Management pects involving products, signed agreement, Department’s attributes, we promote constant and regulatory, labor, tax, corporate, business, training sessions and communications about civil, and criminal obligations, among others. anticorruption practices, money laundering and We rely on teams of experts and structured fraud prevention, as well as risk management. practices to follow up on any potential consequences to our products or internal processes Every two years, we hold the Compliance Week, as a way to manage this risk. which had its second edition in 2016. On that occasion, the issues tackled by specialists and • Reputational risk: this represents the risk a theater group included the importance of inforof losses stemming from impaired credibility mation security, ethics in relationships, and the or reputation because of poor performance fight against harassment, among others. The regarding our fiduciary duty, unethical pracsatisfaction rate stated by the 257 employees tices, bad press, and failure in internal or exin attendance was 81.2% (4.8% higher than the ternal communications. 2014 figure). • Strategic risk: this includes potentially During this period, we also developed an oncompromising the continuity of operations line course about risk management, which had because of failed planning and market posi491 participants. This corresponds to 98.4% of tioning, the inability to enforce the strategies those eligible for this training. This training sesthat were set, a lack of credibility, and adverse sion is now mandatory for all our new full-time regulatory changes in the market where we staffers, interns, trainees, and apprentices. operations or the macroeconomic scenario. In addition, we spread the word about anticor• Anticorruption policy: we have an Anticorruption policies and procedures to the entire ruption Policy that sets guidelines to prevent company through multiple internal communicaour involvement, either direct or indirect, in tion channels as well as meetings with managcases of this nature. This document includes, ers and employees. At the same time, we proamong other aspects, guidelines about receivmoted an online course, which was attended by ing and offering gifts, presents, and entertain98.4% of employees and 15% of the members ment; rules on sponsorships and donations; a of governance bodies. ban on donations to political parties; besides rules on how to hire third parties and full-time This issue was also discussed at the Meeting staffers and the importance of acculturation of Suppliers, which is held every year and atabout this issue. Any and all transactions tended by 47 companies during this period. that are considered relevant – according to a Furthermore, there is an anticorruption clause in strategic risk map we create – are reviewed every agreement we sign as well as a self-reportbased on corruption-related risks. In 2016, ing questionnaire that is submitted to suppliers there were no confirmed cases of corruption with whom we do business of significant value. at Brasilprev. G4-DMA: Anti-corruption | G4-DMA: Among other issues, said questionnaire covers Public policy | G4-SO3 | G4-SO5 our concern with practices of this nature.G4-SO4 27 PREPARE “I contribute every month to my Brasilprev plan, because I look at the product as a pillow for my sleep and the keeper of my projects.” Wady Cury, 62, is a civil engineer and a Brasilprev client for 17 years. Strategy ECONOMIC OVERVIEW In 2016, the global economic activity experiIn Brazil, an increased unemployment rate, fallenced moderate growth compared to the last ing wages, and the postponement of productive few years. The biggest economies kept the investments limited the expansion of economic same interest rates as a result of weak economic growth. In monetary policy, the Brazilian Central progress and low inflation levels. Bank commenced an interest rate flexibility process that enabled cuts to the SELIC rate, which In the United States, when economic activity went from 14.25% to 13.75% a year. In addition, picked up in the second half of the year, it allowed the inflationary pressure from the last few years the Fed to start a new cycle of monetary tightenstarted to vanish. Throughout the year, the exing by increasing the Fed Funds by adding 0.25 tended consumer price index (IPCA) had an acpercentage points to the American interest rate. cumulated increase of 6.29%. The job market continued to be robust, with a slight recovery of salaries. Over the course of the Regarding fiscal policy, the Brazilian federal govyear, Americans chose a new president, Donald ernment took action to control primary expendiTrump. The Republican candidate was elected tures to balance the budget in the medium term. on the promise of bolstering economic activity The Brazilian Congress is probably going to pass through tax incentives and increasing the level of other measures throughout 2017, keeping the protectionism in America. Trump’s victory led to promise to help the economy to promote susvolatility in the financial market and, chiefly, the tained growth for the foreseeable future. currencies of emerging countries. 28 Industry Performance The Brazilian retirement industry continued to Because we are aware of our role as a player in grow by double digits in 2016. Industry assets the retirement industry, over the course of this reached BRL661.6 billion, 23.4% more than year, we increased our participation in the most 2015, according to information from the Brazilian important industry discussion forums and beRetirement and Annuity Federation (FenaPrevi). haved accordingly to improve the industry, especially in negotiations and the rules and reguRegarding revenue from January to December lations under the Brazilian Federal Open Market 2016, the industry had a 19.3% increased Committee (CMN) Resolution No. 4,444. over the previous year. The Vida Gerador de Benefício Livre (VGBL) product category reAnother key factor that became strategically ceived BRL104.9 billion in deposits over this relevant for the company was the incorporation period, a 22.3% gain, and was mainly responof innovation as a strategic objective. In order sible for the overall growth. In turn, the Plano to help diffuse up-to-date methodologies and Gerador de Benefício Livre (PGBL) product support the process to bolster this culture, the raised BRL8.9 billion, with no significant variCorporate Strategy, Innovation, and Project ation. The rate of withdrawal from PGBL and Management Department started coordinating VGBL reserves was 9.6%, a 0.7% decrease multiple activities. Holding the 100% Special regarding the 2015 closing figure. Management meeting, which brought together all managers to discuss and establish the Strategic Analysis concept of innovation at Brasilprev; creating a We keep a constant improvement process for workgroup to spread the idea and acculturate our procedures, controls, and management employees; adopting new tools and methodolmodel, while always taking into account our misogies, such as Design Thinking; as well as hirsion statement, our vision statement, and our ing a consulting firm to identify groundbreaking core values. We rely on Strategic Management solutions quickly and assertively are among the to guide and engage all employees in search of highlights of 2016. excellence, using the most current project planning, selection, and monitoring methodologies Operational efficiency is our fourth focus and its and deploying the best strategic plan managehighlights include the UpPrev project, which is ment practices and tools, such as balanced a part of the New Technological Platform and scorecard (BSC), for instance. reviews any and all processes involving retirement plan management and system platform inIn 2016, we established four priorities in order to tegration efforts. In 2016, the Khronos migration guide the development of the strategic plan as a took place, which made more services available whole: i) focusing the decision-making process to clients and channels. Moreover, Technology on clients by offering them accurate guidance made significant changes to the strategy, with and permanent consulting services; ii) securing the development of a functionality database to our prominence in the marketplace and leadserve the retirement business specifically. ing discussions to make the industry evolve; iii) developing innovation capabilities; and, last but Over the course of the year, the efforts to cornot least, iv) continuously improving processes relate strategic indicators, processes, and risks in order to ensure operational efficiency. were completed. Simultaneously, processes were improved in order to improve operational To improve our relationship with our clients, we established the Client Support Service that sees structured interactions throughout the retirement cycle at Brasilprev that go beyond The company established four priconsulting – which already takes place during the sales process – into the after-sales period orities in its strategic plan: clients until preparation to receive benefits. We also at the heart of the decision-making created the Client Relationship Management Superintendence, which combines Client process, market leadership, the Intelligence and Management and the Client ability to innovate, and the search Support Center in the same unit. for operational efficiency. 29 efficiency and apply the new methodology to As for product improvement, the industry awaits quantify gains. We will redouble our efforts in a final rule to take action, with the new provi2017 with a view to adopting 26 concrete efsions under CMN Resolution No. 4,444, which ficiency improvements and gains. Furthermore, will give fund managers more diversification the project authorization and prioritization methpower, mitigating risks and maximizing returns. odology, which was reviewed in 2015, was fully adopted, thereby streamlining the decision-makPRODUCTS AND SERVICES ing process and making it more assertive based G4-DMA: Marketing communication | G4-DMA: Prodon the analysis of indicators as well as a tool that uct and service labeling | G4-4 | G4-PR3 can estimate costs. We create products and services based on five attributes: competitive; desired by clients; legalThese strategic initiatives, when added to our acly compliant; based on corporate strategy; and tive participation in industry discussions and our profitable. Within this context, we were pioneers actions, which are based on our sustainability when we focused on concept of pension savand solidity, allowed us to retain our prominence ings, back in 2004, after reviewing our mission as a key player in the Brazilian retirement indusstatement and positioning our plans as tools to try in 2016, achieving above-average results in enable long-term life plans instead of restricting spite of a challenging economic scenario. them to retirement alone. PROSPECTS In 2016, to follow up on our progress, the Discussions on public-pension reform are a Product Superintendence reviewed the scope factor that may propel the retirement industry in of activities of its two management offices. The Brazil, since people become aware of the imporfirst one started handling portfolio management, tance of saving for retirement. In addition, there modeling, and new product creation efforts, are demographic movements, such as an aging while the other dedicates itself to monitoring population, falling birth rates, and increased loncompliance with the rules and laws in force as gevity – currently, whoever turns 60 will possibly well as the various corporate processes. With reach 85 or 90. this separation of functions, the department gains focus and assertiveness. One of the industry’s challenges will be to meet this savings need with proposals and alternaThe superintendence’s improvement moves are tives to the various audience profiles. Growth even more important because of our all-encompossibilities are scattered all over the data, such passing portfolio, which offers unique solutions as a 2016 FenaPrevi poll, which showed that geared towards multiples audiences – both indionly one third of Brazilians takes steps towards viduals and businesses –, with plans to achieve financial security. Another World Bank study different objectives, such as retirement, your from the same year found that, out of every 100 children’s education, homeownership, the expeBrazilians, only four set aside funds for retirerience of an amazing trip, and even investments ment, which is the lowest rate in the Americas in your own business. and one of the worst worldwide. 30 Products are sold at Banco do Brasil branches Training sessions are also conducted to help and also through registered freelance brokers, Banco do Brasil managers. During the 12 who offer plans divided into two categories – months of 2016, there were 231 on-site meetPlano Gerador de Benefício Livre (PGBL) and ings, which involved 2,782 participants, besides Vida Gerador de Benefício Livre (VGBL). There 97 remote courses, with 3,888 professionals in are also two taxation tables: progressive tax-reattendance. We also have an internal departlievable and regressive definitive. Funds are ment that supports the network with phone placed in investment funds with fixed-income consultations and conference calls. These acstrategy options, balanced with variable income tions compound with a whole range of services or even used with the sophisticated Life Cycle available in multiple channels to enable the comconcept. The monthly minimum contribution is pany’s commitment to adding value to the entire BRL 25.00 in some products, the lowest in the client relationship cycle. market. This way, a larger share of the population is able to afford retirement plans. When acquirThe portfolio distribution of acquired plans is ing a Brasilprev plan, clients receive a proposal in line with the context of fostering social and containing important information, such as the economic development and promoting the refees we charge and the initial waiting period for tirement industry in Brazil. In Southeast Brazil, withdrawals and rollovers. After 30 days, clients the largest economic hub in the country, with are sent a certificate of the product. the largest concentration of companies, we are very well represented. Furthermore, some One of our main differences is our consultative social, economic, and demographic changes, selling, which aims to help clients acquire the such as an increased access to finance, an agproduct that best suits their profile and their ing population, falling birth rates, and prolonged needs. To this end, Banco do Brasil managlongevity, have been affecting the financial ers, our largest sales force, use tools such as awareness of Brazilians positively, which, for us, a decision tree, a set of questions to guide this leads to increased revenue and a larger client analysis and, thus, provide each individual with base across Brazil. Among our clients, women the most suitable plan. Additionally, these prohave been participating more and more as well fessionals are supported by consulting experts as increasing the monthly value of their contribuand sales material, as well as follow-up tools, tions. At the end of 2016, they were participants such as business presentations, techniques, in 49% of all PGBL and VGBL plans. In turn, and collective plan guides, which are prepared the average contribution of the female audience based on each client segment. was BRL 385, a 10% increase over December 2015. G4-FS6 Division of each portfolio category based on amount of plans by region G4-FS6 Share in Brazilian Region PGBL (%) VGBL (%) Traditional (%) region (%) Brazilian Midwest 28 67 5 9 Northeast Brazil 30 65 5 16 Northern Brazil 32 64 4 4 Southeast Brazil 27 66 7 53 Southern Brazil 27 68 6 18 Total 28 66 6 100 31 Products Services • Individual: clients may choose from the We perfect the services we offer, which include our PGBL and VGBL categories in Brasilprev Client Support Center, our Ombudsman’s Office, plans, which are intended for people aged consulting services for individuals and businesses, 14 to 69, with a minimum monthly contribuas well as the digital channels of our company and tion of BRL60.00 (VGBL) and BRL100.00 Banco do Brasil – of which the website, the mo(PGBL). The second option is Brasilprev Perbile website, and the self-service terminals are the sonalizado, with a minimum contribution of highlights (please refer to the chapter Clients) – to BRL200.00, which is intended for clients aged improve our client interactions. 14 to 99. There are other two alternatives for Banco do Brasil clients, based on relationship In 2016, with many efforts in this regard, we level: Brasilprev Estilo or Brasilprev Private. decidedly focused the decision-making process on clients as one of our strategic priorities. We • Brasilprev Junior (underage segment): also established the Client Support Service, released in 1997, by inaugurating this segwhich fosters structured interactions throughment, this plan broke new ground in the reout our retirement cycle and takes consulting to tirement industry. The first product oriented every single opportunity to contact clients. This towards children and teenagers was created activity has already been directly influencing all so that our clients could use the funds while the services we provide. they were still young, especially in education, which turns these plans into an effective tool Moreover, we created the Retirement Primer to to help families set aside a reserve to bankroll raise awareness of the importance of saving in the life plans of their children, nephews and the long run. This concept builds upon finannieces, and grandchildren. Besides, it unicial-literacy and retirement education initiatives versalizes access to retirement plans, since that may be accessed via our many channels (to it has the lowest contribution amount in the learn more, please refer to the chapters Clients market: BRL25.00. and Community). • Very Small and Small Businesses and AsCOMPETITIVE EDGE AND sociations: in October 2016, the Brasilprev INTANGIBLE ASSETS product for very small and small businesses Throughout our history, we have developed, perturned three, with high demand. That is befected, and kept intangible assets that enable cause it offers several benefits, with the prooutstanding performances in the marketplace gressive taxation advantage as a highlight, and continuously enhance our competitiveness. which enables lower taxes as reserves inAmong these key attributes for sustainable crease, both individually and collectively. Begrowth, the most relevant are as follows: sides, it allows for individualized billing, which relieves the Human Resources departments • Strong brand: the reputation and solidity of companies. of two shareholders, plus a track record of achievements and consistent management, • Corporate: in 2016, the new retirement plan are the basis for the strength of our brand. models for the Wholesale segment turned one. With a performance within expectations, these products continue to be improved so that companies can rely on an ever-better customer service. Plans were developed based on preestablished models based on high-complexity variables that adapt to business needs and market demands. To this end, we came up with a business platform Throughout its history, Brasilprev has that offers an online sales tool. With it, our consultants are able to provide our clients developed, perfected, and kept intangible with the best retirement solution using the assets that enable outstanding perforleast amount of paper. This platform gets new functionalities every year to foster autonmances in the marketplace and continuomy and mobility among consultants, with ously enhance our competitiveness. less red tape and more streamlined retirement plan acquisition efforts. 32 • Specialization: our exclusive devotion to other three consultants managed to obtain retirement makes us stand out from the the Certified Financial Planner (CFP) desigcompetition by enabling more competitive nation, one of the chief international certificalaunches and a focus on long-term investtions in the financial market, for a total of six ment management. professionals with CFP designations. • Positioning: our actions are unique in the • Consulting: the search for client satisfaction marketplace because we spread the concept starts with consultative selling, which is carof long-term funds accumulation as a way to ried out by experts who are trained to guide materialize different life plans and boost finanand tell clients about the most suitable plan cial and retirement awareness in society. for their profile and manage client expectations. In 2016, we created the Client Support • Groundbreaking profile: innovation is a part Service, which extended consulting throughof our corporate identity, which follows market out the client relationship management cytrends and promotes surveys and studies to cle and forecasts an even closer interaction establish the characteristics of new products during the entire after-sales period. and unprecedented services. This feature became even stronger with the acculturation • High satisfaction rates: throughout our hismoves that started in 2016, which will also be tory, we have received good results from polls, in the limelight in 2017. which have become a way to assess the experiences of stakeholders with the company. • Affordability and capillarity: we help univerSurveys are carried out to measure the satissalize retirement by offering affordable finanfaction of clients, Banco do Brasil managers, cial solutions to different audience profiles. We corporate plan administrators, organizationalso rely on the capillarity of our main distribual-climate managers, as well as quality assurtion channel, Banco do Brasil, with over 5,400 ance managers for the services of the Client branches – besides proprietary, franchised, Support Center (to learn more, please refer to and shared minibranches – and we are presthe chapter Satisfaction Surveys). ent in 99.7% of all Brazilian cities. G4-DMA: Local communities | G4-FS13 | G4-FS14 • Certifications: achieving and retaining wellknown international certifications are a testa• Client knowledge: our client strategy and ment to our excellence in management pracfocus on business sustainability entail adding tices. Examples include the ISO 9001:2008 value throughout the relationship cycle. To certification obtained by the Ombudsman’s achieve this purpose, we keep an up-to-date Office and Finance and the ISO 9001:2015 database with the registration and transaccertification acquired by the Client Support tional information of clients, which serves as Center – which, again, was awarded the knowledge base to track detailed profiles of Seal of Ethics based on the Code of Ethics of each segment. Thus, it is possible to serve the Brazilian Self-Regulation Program (PROclients more assertively and develop prodBARE) as well as the Seal of Management ucts and services in line with their needs. Maturity (to learn more, please refer to the chapter Awards and Recognition). • Experts: we rely on a team of 134 consulting experts – seven more than in 2015 – who • Legal and Regulatory Management: we were certified by the Brazilian Association of play a key role in the Brazilian retirement marFinancial and Capital Market Institutions (ANket and take action internally with the creBIMA) based on the ANBIMA Professional ation of mechanisms and processes to anticiCertification programs CPA 10 and CPA 20, pate and comply with industry standards and which are geared towards professionals who externally with a structured collaboration with dedicate themselves to investment product regulatory bodies and industry institutions to sales and distribution activities. In 2016, animprove the market continuously. 33 Wady Cury, 62, is a civil engineer and a Brasilprev client for 17 years. Economic and Financial Analysis G4-DMA: Economic performance INVESTMENTS We are constantly investing in fixed (the neces• A 5% investment in the improvement of opsary infrastructure for operations) and intangible erational-risk management and compliance (software) assets, besides important projects tools and instruments, including controlling that aim to carry out judicious and consistent the risk of financial losses stemming from improvements for the ever-evolving quality of our failed procedures, noncompliance, and fraud. management practices and processes. Thus, in 2016, investments worked out at BRL23.4 mil• A 2% investment in legal affairs to promote lion, distributed among the following initiatives: adaptations to legislative changes and adjustment in new products and/or services, in • A 93% investment in innovation projects addition to the adoption of internal controls and our competitive edge to differentiate our and accounting standards. products and services, thereby expanding our ability to generate business and create client loyalty. 34 Investment by type (%) Other projects Fixed assets Intangible assets ASSET MANAGEMENT Credit Limit Award The activities of our financial experts are based Since 2015, we have adopted the credit limon a philosophy of long-term investment, with it award (PLC), a model that aims to grant an daily follow-up on the behavior of portfolio funds additional credit limit to companies, both fiand evolution so that funds are allocated based nancial and nonfinancial, that are concerned on the best risk-return ratio. In parallel, our stratabout adopting sustainability practices in their egy builds on the diversification of asset classes business. Through comparative and integrated and types, which requires teams to observe analysis, the credit limit award recognizes, with market performance thoroughly, always in line additional limits, the organizations that make up with the rules of the industry’s regulatory body. our credit portfolio and appear in the corporate Besides, we do not make decisions based on sustainability index (ISE). The methodology – temporary fluctuations. We look for a long-term which is based on the corporate sustainability horizon, with environmental (such as climate index and, thus far, only applies to the credit risk), social (stakeholder relations), and goverportfolio – is assessed and deliberated on by the nance (management structures) issues – under Financial Committee, which is also in charge of the acronym ESG – also being factored in this other investment decisions. process. G4-EC2 In December 2016, the counterparties (compaIn 2016, we took a major step in sustainable nies and banks), who were a part of the cominvestment management, with compliance with pany’s private-lending portfolio and were eligible the Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI), to receive the credit limit award benefit, made a gathering of global investors in association up 16% of the businesses in that group, with with the Environment Program Finance Initiative amounts that added to 55% of the total. G4-DMA: (UNEP FI) and the Global Compact, both spearProduct portfolio| G4-FS10 | G4-FS11 headed by the United Nations, to further the inclusion of ESG issues in the investment deAsset Management Governance G4-EC8 cision-making process. During the same year, Considering our responsibility as an institutional we signed the Green Bond Statement – Brazil, investor, we keep a robust system and a solan initiative by the Climate Bonds Initiative (CBI) id framework to guide our investment and risk and SITAWI Finanças do Bem that supports the management efforts. Our purpose is to provide issuance of green bonds as a way to promote a our clients with the best yield in the long run. low-carbon economy by deploying or refinancing Thus, we adopt a controlled governance proprojects that benefit the environment. G4-EC2 cess that is based on ethics, prudence, and 35 transparency. The Board of Directors is tasked on behalf of clients as if they were made for with passing general policies and guidelines, oneself, always looking for gains that consider which are then deployed by our Financial both the security of the invested capital and the Committee and managers, who run BB Gestão potential result stemming therefrom. We also de Recursos – Distribuidora de Títulos e Valores follow the principle of observing the regulatory Mobiliários S.A. (BB DTVM). aspect regarding opportunities, the impacts associated with risk, the financial implications and Our Investment Policy applies to the entire asset mitigation measures, risk management per se, portfolio and covers any and all decisions to alas well as management costs. locate funds coming from various decision-making ranks. The document also highlights financial BB DTVM risks, such as credit, market, and liquidity risks, BB Gestão de Recursos – Distribuidora de besides factoring in systemic risks, and monitors Títulos e Valores Mobiliários S.A. (BB DTVM) is opportunities that are economically sustainable tasked with managing our assets and specialand socially responsible. Because we manage izes in the administration and management of a long-term product, we define the demands, assets that span all the categories of investrequirements, and conditions that guide our inment funds, with products distributed by the vestment management strategies transparently. various investor segments. This is a leading G4-DMA: Product portfolio company in the Brazilian investment fund and managed-portfolio industry, according to the To manage the risks of products with a guaranrankings of the Brazilian Association of Financial teed minimum benefit, for more than 15 years, and Capital Market Institutions (ANBIMA). we have adopted the asset-liability management (ALM) process. With this, we ensure integrated BB DTVM relies on professionals with a high asset-liability management efforts as well as the degree of qualification and commitment and folbest possible allocation of funds based on inlows ethical and legal principles in compliance vestment maturity and risks. with the laws in force and the Code of Ethics of the Banco do Brasil conglomerate. Funds Asset diversification is the primary element of management follows the guidelines contained risk control and mitigation we conduct. We also in our Investment Policy and the management follow, as the investment opportunity selection agreements that were signed between the parstandard, the international concept of pruties. In addition, we have signed the Principles dent-person standard, that is, making choices for Responsible Investment (PRI). 36 The company ended 2016 with more than Balanced Fund 20: for an outstanding return BRL 730 billion in funds managed and, since and appreciation in the long run, it takes mod2006, has retained Manager Quality 1 (MQ1), erate risks in transactions and allocates 15% to the maximum investment manager excellence 20% of investments to variable-income securating from credit rating agency Moody’s Latin rities, especially separate accounts, and 80% America. Since 2012, it also has the internationto 85% to fixed-income securities (government al ISO 9001:2008 – Total Quality certification, and corporate bonds). one of the most prestigious titles in quality of services and processes of credit risk analysis. Balanced Fund 49: with a bold profile and long-term appreciation forecasts, up to 49% of Families of Funds funds are invested in variable-income securities We keep seven families of investment funds with (with a focus on separate accounts) and at least different compositions. We do not make direct 51% in fixed-income securities (government and investments in infrastructure, only indirectly, corporate bonds). placing funds in corporate bonds and shares of companies that are listed in stock exchanges Balanced Fund 49D: in this family of funds with and participate in that industry. a bold profile and a focus on wealth growth, variable-income investments are allocated to shares Classic RF: it tries to meet client profiles with of companies with a good history of dividend very low risk tolerance who are close to achievpayout. Thus, up to 49% of funds are invested ing their life plans and feel the need to protect in variable-income securities and at least 51% in the wealth they already have. Therefore, these fixed-income securities. clients are more careful and try to avoid fluctuations in their investments. Moreover, they are Life Cycle: considered the most cutting-edge willing to give up on a better yield in the long run. investment concept in the Brazilian retirement industry, it aims primarily to follow up on the life FIX Family: oriented towards clients that want cycles of our clients. It is based on the “auto a long-term return at a minimum risk, this fund pilot” concept, which allows our experts to peaims to have a good yield and protect their riodically rebalance fixedand variable-income wealth. In these funds, we invest in government percentages to provide the best risk-reward bonds to make the most of an interest rate that ratio throughout the years. The more distant is still attractive in the long run and corporate the date of life plan achievement is, the longer bonds to get a premium on the interest paid by variable-income funds will be exposed, since government bonds. the time to overcome potential financial fluctuations will be longer. On the other hand, as the Premium RF: this is oriented towards clients date of life plan achievement approaches, the with a more moderate profile, since fluctuations fund becomes more conservative, with a higher in units are higher than other fixed-income ofallocation to fixed-income securities and a focus ferings. It aims to provide our clients with an on yield and protection. In this family of funds, investment option with an outstanding yield in we offer three categories, with different features, the long run. based on the time horizon that was established by the respective life plans of clients: Life Cycle 2020, Life Cycle 2030, and Life Cycle 2040. 37 2016 net yield of funds (reference date: 12/31/2016) Name of Fund Management Fee (yearly %) 12 months (%) 24 months (%) 36 months (%) 48 months (%) 60 months (%) FIX 3.40 10.95 21.32 30.26 33.38 43.11 FIX II 1.50 13.07 25.99 37.88 43.90 57.33 FIX III 3.00 11.39 22.29 31.83 35.53 45.99 FIX IV 2.50 11.94 23.50 33.81 38.25 49.66 FIX V 2.00 12.51 24.74 35.83 41.05 53.46 FIX VI 1.25 13.35 26.61 38.91 45.32 59.29 FIX VII 0.80 13.86 27.75 40.79 47.97 62.92 FIX VIII 0.70 13.97 28.00 41.21 48.53 FIX IX 2.80 11.55 22.59 32.17 FIX X 1.80 12.73 25.23 36.62 FIX A 0.95 13.67 27.33 40.09 46.98 61.56 FIX C 1.00 13.63 27.24 39.95 46.79 61.30 Prev FIX 3.00 11.73 22.30 31.75 32.70 39.57 Classic 1.00 12.66 26.50 39.02 Classic II 1.80 11.77 24.50 35.72 Premium 1.25 17.65 28.42 41.84 Life Cycle 2020 2.00 17.09 24.22 35.95 21.17 45.22 Life Cycle 2020 II 3.40 15.47 20.80 30.36 14.56 35.38 Life Cycle 2020 III 3.00 15.90 21.69 31.70 Life Cycle 2020 IV 2.50 16.46 22.85 33.61 Life Cycle 2020 E 1.25 17.95 26.05 38.98 24.78 50.65 Life Cycle 2030 2.00 25.80 23.91 31.21 11.18 32.60 Life Cycle 2030 II 3.40 24.04 20.46 25.75 5.04 23.51 Life Cycle 2030 III 3.00 24.31 20.87 26.72 Life Cycle 2030 IV 2.50 24.84 21.95 28.51 Life Cycle 2030 E 1.25 26.72 25.72 34.11 14.47 37.53 Life Cycle 2040 2.00 29.78 24.18 29.76 9.20 29.31 Life Cycle 2040 II 3.40 27.97 20.72 24.36 3.18 20.46 Life Cycle 2040 III 3.00 28.21 21.50 25.70 Life Cycle 2040 IV 2.50 28.95 22.81 27.69 Life Cycle 2040 E 1.25 30.73 25.98 32.60 12.41 34.10 Balanced Fund 20 3.50 14.72 20.05 26.58 25.03 33.63 Balanced Fund 20 II 1.50 17.04 24.94 34.43 35.50 47.76 Balanced Fund 20 III 3.00 15.28 21.22 28.43 27.48 36.93 Balanced Fund 20 IV 2.50 15.84 22.38 30.29 29.96 40.27 Balanced Fund 20 V 2.00 16.46 23.72 32.45 32.83 44.13 Balanced Fund 49 3.00 19.88 19.68 23.78 18.50 26.43 Balanced Fund 49 II 2.00 21.07 22.08 27.54 23.34 32.92 Balanced Fund 49 III 1.50 21.42 22.65 28.48 Balanced Fund 49 D 2.00 16.76 18.12 20.89 17.98 28.44 Balanced Fund 49 D II 1.50 17.30 19.20 22.56 Balanced Fund 49 D E 1.25 17.62 19.87 23.60 21.52 33.28 Special Multimarket 1.25 26.01 25.12 36.08 16.48 41.92 38 RESULTS In 2016, we maintained the good performance market share and a 14.8% gain over 2015. The we had been showing in the past few years. We industry grew by 15.5%. In the underage segcontinue to be the leading company in PGBL and ment, the amount worked out at BRL1.2 billion, VGBL assets, net deposits, and total revenue. a 6.1% increase over 2015, with a 56% market share. Regarding these products, the market Net deposits recorded a 5.4% increased. As for the corpoAs the leading company in net deposits since rate segment, we had BRL8.4 billion, a 17.7% 2008, we reached a 50.5% market share in this growth over 2015 and higher than the industry’s indicator in 2016, which shows the difference figures, which amounted to 9.1%. We ended between withdrawals and investments made by the year with a 55.6% market share. (Sources: clients. The amount worked out at BRL28.5 bilFenaPrevi and Brasilprev) lion, a 25.6% gain over 2015 and over four percentage points above the market, which grew Rollovers by 21.2%. (Source: Quantum Axis) Regarding rollovers, which is the mechanism whereby clients are able to transfer their reAssets under management serves to another retirement trustee, we reAt the end of 2016, total assets under manageceived BRL1.4 billion and transferred BRL2.2 ment were BRL199.1 billion, a 33% increase billion, which produced a negative net rollover of over 2015, above the market average, which BRL 864 million. (Source: FenaPrevi) grew by 23.4%. Our market share reached 30.1%. Regarding the PGBL and VGBL assets, Technical reserves the amount worked out at BRL187.3 billion, for The balance of technical reserves grew by a total market share of 30.9%, which represents 33.2% over the same period in 2015, amounting a 34.9% gain over 2015. During that same to BRL197.5 billion. The industry average was period, the industry grew by 25.2%. (Sources: 23.8%. (Sources: FenaPrevi and Brasilprev) FenaPrevi and Brasilprev) Distribution of Value Added G4-EC1 Revenue In 2016, the value added worked out at more We continued to be the leading company in total than BRL23.1 billion, a 43.7% increase over the revenue, with a 40.5% market share, BRL47.6 previous year. The distribution of value added, billion in deposits, and an annual growth of which aims to show how the wealth we gen33.2%, 13.9 percentage points above the marerated was shared, was as follows: 91.4% for ket average, which gained 19.3%. Regarding clients, 3.8% for the government (taxes), 2.7% the PGBL and VGBL products, there was a for shareholders, 1.6% in retained earnings, and 28.6% increase, which amounted to BRL47.1 0.5% for employees. billion, a 28.6% increase over 2015. The average industry growth in this indicator was 20.1%. Internal policies on reinvesting earnings and (Sources: FenaPrevi and Brasilprev) paying out dividends are established in our bylaws and discussed during meetings of shareRevenue by segment holders. Dividend requirements are paid out to Our revenue in the individual segment was shareholders at a rate of no less than twenty-five BRL38.1 billion, which is equivalent to a 37.9% (25%) of the fiscal year’s net income. Distribution of Value Added (In millions of BRL) G4-EC1 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Clients 5,263.7 2,473.8 8,298.4 13,845.8 21,141.5 Government 397.9 476.6 762.9 963.1 867.5 Employees 72.6 82.6 91.1 105.0 119.4 Shareholders 239.4 404.2 426.2 770.3 628.9 (dividends) Retained earnings 244.6 178.3 561.1 385.2 380.1 Total 6,218.2 3,615.5 10,139.7 16,069.4 23,137.40 39 ACHIEVE “Saving money is the basis for a comfortable life. That way, I can do my own things, mainly going out and traveling a lot with my friends.” Maria Inês Godoy, 79, has already enjoyed her Brasilprev plan and continues to be a client of ours. Social, Environmental, and Stakeholder Management The corporate vision – “to be the leading retirement • Acting to add value to all of our stakeholders; trustee in Brazil, admired for our contribution to the sustainable development of Brazil and Brazilians” • Continuously trying to incorporate practices – and the search for responsible management – that foster sustainable development into our which is defined as one of our sustainability priorities daily activities and processes; – serve as the basis for our relationship with our stakeholders and our environmental protection • Promoting an ethical and transparent diapractices. This action is formally stated in the Letter logue in all relationships; of Guidelines and the Sustainability Policy (which may be accessed here). The principles that guide • Raising awareness and engaging employees this positioning include: and business partners regarding the role of sustainability for our perpetuity; • Valuing business opportunities that can contribute to sustainable development; 40 • Promoting the responsible management of • Cooperating with other organizations in iniinvestment portfolios, in light of our fiduciatiatives that aim to find solutions for common ry duty and the commitments we contracted challenges that contribute to the sustainable with our stakeholders, beyond or role as an development of Brazil and Brazilians; institutional investor; • Publicly spreading the Sustainability Guide• Integrating public initiatives that are geared lines the organization has adopted and peritowards the sustainability issue, contracting odically report on the evolution of our practiccommitments to issues that are relevant to es, which contribute to reaching your vision. our business; VOLUNTARY AGREEMENTS G4-15 We enter into and sign voluntary agreements the Global Compact, both spearheaded by the with institutions and organizations with whom we United Nations – and takes action to foster the share principles and values. They are as follows: inclusion of environmental, social, and corporate governance (ESG) issues in their investment • Global Compact: since 2008, we have been decision-making and asset ownership process. signing this United Nations initiative and reinWe became a signatory in 2016. forcing our commitment to the development of practices based on respect for human • Green Bond Statement: a document signed rights, labor relations, environmental protecby investors who support the adoption of tion, and the fight against corruption. G4-DMA: green bonds as a new investment option to Anti-corruption generate positive impacts for the environment, mitigate climate changes, and pro• Carbon Disclosure Program (CDP): an mote a low-carbon economy. international nonprofit initiative that has the backing of institutional investors (such as • Abrinq Foundation: since 2009, we have Brasilprev) so that companies measure, had the right to use the Children-Friendly Comspread, and share information about their pany Program seal, which is granted by the practices with regard to climate chance, waAbrinq Foundation for the Rights of Children ter, and forests. and Teenagers, as a result of the initiatives we have developed to benefit this audience. • Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI): it brings investors together – in assoWe are also affiliated with the Ethos Institute of ciation with the United Nations Environment Companies and Social Responsibility and follow Programme Finance Initiative (UNEP FI) and the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) guidelines. 41 We have engaged our many stakeholders freCLIENTS G4-DMA: Product and service labeling quently using preset approaches. These acWe continuously promote efforts to achieve, for tivities aim to add mutual value and are in line our clients, our mission “to provide our clients with our Active Life philosophy, which includes with financial-security solutions and high-quality paying attention to four dimensions to fulfill life services to enable their life plans.” In order to plans: financial literacy, quality of life, entreprehonor this commitment, we provide consulting neurial attitude, and social responsibility. support, convenience, and superior performance in asset management. Besides, we spread the We also believe that awareness of the imporconcepts of financial literacy and retirement edutance of saving in the long run – chiefly because cation among clients and the community. of discussions about public-pension reform – is paramount for Brazilians to maintain a standard In 2016, we focused the decision-making proof living in the future and be able to achieve their cess on clients as one of our strategic priorilife plans, regardless of gender, social class, ties. To improve this stakeholder’s experience, and generation. For this reason, we have imover the course of the year, there were internal proved our activities regarding the formation changes ranging from the creation of the Client of a retirement culture, a commitment that was Relationship Management Superintendence to established in our Sustainability Policy and as a other more visible ones for the external audiresult of the creation of the Retirement Primer. ence, such as the implementation of the Client This new concept intends to bring all the efforts Support Service and efforts to simplify the lanthat approach financial literacy and retirement guage used in communications. education under a single identity and strengthen our positioning in our many support channels. This new superintendence brings together the deThe new way to act was based on three educapartments of Client Intelligence and Management tional pillars – to inform, form, and acculturate and Client Relationship Management, which pro– and initiatives are now prepared according to duces an effective synergy. Thus, strategy and the retirement cycle, that is, accumulation, promanagement owners are in tune with the departtection, and distribution, while also considering ment that contacts this audience directly in order the needs of each target audience (clients, emto better understand participant demands and ployees, community, and so forth). Learn more guide targeted efforts. about the efforts and channels that are geared towards our stakeholders in the chapters below. In line with the client experience and relationG4-DMA: Product and service labeling ship management strategy and coupled with the results from satisfaction surveys with this SHAREHOLDERS audience, we established the Client Support For us, transparency-based equality in corpoService, with efforts that aim to strengthen our rate accountability and responsibility towards relationship with our clients throughout their shareholders is key for our perpetuity and sucjourney with their Brasilprev plans. cess. Our Corporate-Governance Policy and the Letter of Sustainability Guidelines clearly estabWithin this context, it is important to promote the lish the principles, rights, and duties that govern acculturation and engagement of all employees this relationship. vis-à-vis the outlined objectives. In September, a month that marks the Client Day celebrations, Shareholders play a key role in attaining growing we held the second edition of the Client Week. and sustainable results and help establish business strategies using certain forums and providing management insights and experiences. The most important forums where this audience takes part in the decision-making process are In line with its mission, Brasilprev offers the special and regular meetings of shareholders, where strategic issues are discussed, such consultative support, convenience, as as passing changes to the corporate bylaws well as superior performance in asset and accountability (to learn more, please refer to Corporate Governance). Specific meetings management and spread the word with shareholders and other employees also about the concepts of financial literacy take place to further integration and alignment between the parties. and retirement education. 42 This event tackled consumer behavior trends, innovation, shareholder strategies, as well as success stories that are geared towards client experience improvement. Another program initiative was continuing the client experience workshops to train every employee in the concepts of client journey and make them aware of the role they play in delivering a good experience to clients. Corporate Clients In 2016, we kept improving our relationship with our corporate clients. One of the breakthroughs Client Support Center is client service specializing in small and midsiIn 2016, the department was officially renamed zed businesses. To this end, we had consultants from Client Service Center to Client Support go to new Banco do Brasil branches where they Center, which is in line with the consulting supwould only help companies of these sizes. port efforts our team provides. Recognized by the quality of our efforts, in 2016 we renewed During the last quarter, the Chief Economist of the ISO 9001:2015 – revisited in 2015, the ISO Brasilprev spoke to businessmen and Banco do 9001 certification became more mature and is Brasil managers from different cities in several a testament to our management’s commitment venues. We will repeat these efforts in 2017. to process standardization – and Brazilian Self-Regulation Program (PROBARE) certificaWe also make the following efforts regarding fitions in the Code of Ethics and Management nancial literacy and the formation of a retirement Maturity categories, which corroborate our exculture for employees of corporate clients: cellent performance. Solicitation (plan deployment period) Regarding improvements in this area, one team was trained to only help clients with income tax • Lectures: an introduction to corporate questions in the months of March and April. plans, with presentations that aim to spread This measure led to increased operational the culture of financial literacy and retirement efficiency, since clients with questions of this education to improve the planning and use of nature were redirected to someone who could personal funds. help them specifically. Revising the call center scripts – preset sentences to communicate • Supporting material: a participant’s guide with with clients – to make information more aceducational contents to diffuse the concepts of cessible was another major breakthrough. To financial literacy and retirement education. better understand the demands contained in the satisfaction survey at the end of each call, Financial-Literacy program a group of employees made efforts to contact clients who gave ratings lower than 5. • Online course: the My Life Plan platform provides an online course on budget planning. The department also sends daily communicaThe service is also available to prospects. tions about the most frequent questions and updates the information lookup system on • Best Choices Workshop: this is geared which client support is based. Still during this towards clients that are close to retirement period, we reinforced the Special Operations and about to start achieving their life plans Group, who is responsible for onboarding – among others, it approaches changes to any and all clients that go personally to our finances upon retirement, retirement educaheadquarters and also takes action regardtion, and the formation and preservation of ing Client Support Center-related demands, financial reserves. which go through the Ombudsman’s Office and social media. In 2016, the Center took • WWW: an exclusive microsite to guide emover 800,000 calls, established 13,000 chat ployees who are leaving their companies, but communications, and received around 20,000 who intend to continue paying into the plan. email messages. 43 Accessibility Our Client Support Center and Ombudsman’s G4-DMA: Local communities | G4-FS14 Office are also accessible, with an exclusive The 5,400 Banco do Brasil branches follow the telephone number for people with hearing or technical accessibility standards of the Brazilian speech impairment as well as a specific chat Association of Technical Standards (ABNT). support service. They offer priority support to people with disabilities (PwD) or reduced mobility (temporary or Ombudsman’s Office permanent), the elderly, childbearing mothers, Certified by ISO 9001:2008, which is a testabreastfeeding mothers, and those with small ment to its best practices and quality, the Omchildren. It is easy to move around and access budsman’s Office is tasked with solving client the facilities, the counters, and self-service terdemands with transparency and impartiality, esminals for people with disabilities or reduced pecially those that were appealed (to learn more, mobility. Also, information on operational proplease refer to Corporate Governance). cedures are offered to people with visual and hearing impairment. Furthermore, the other Website Banco do Brasil channels have capabilities to A clear and objective language and with a ensure accessibility, such as self-service over complete menu of services that range from the Internet, which makes it easier to interface simulations for assertive plan choices to finanwith the most widely used screen readers in the cial-literacy contents turn our portal into a key market. The high degree of capillarity of Banco relationship management channel for our clients Client Support Center Data (in thousands) 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Calls 749 796 775 850 856 Emails 15 74 45 26 23 Chat Support 54 11 13 9 13 Total 818 881 833 881 892 do Brasil, with branches all across Brazil, makes and those interested in learning more about priit possible to add the denizens of cities with low vate retirement plans. population density or economically challenged localities to the retirement market. In 2016, our platform was accessed over 2.5 million times, a 19% increase over the previous In 2016, the São Paulo City Hall awarded our year. In an exclusive section for our clients, they headquarters the Seal of Accessibility for People are able to generate slips for extra contributions, with Disabilities. To this end, we made several get fund yield information, and check their stateadjustments to comply with the requirements ments, among several other functionalities. This of the NBR 9050 standard. The improvements area was visited nearly 400,000 over the course we made include: an accessible sidewalk in the of the year, a 25% increase over 2015. surrounding area; adapted parking spots on the first floor and basement; two elevators with Cell Phone handrails; sound cues and Braille buttons; tacBased on a general behavioral trend, mobile tile paving for the blind, and so forth. is the channel that has been gaining the most followers. In 2016, there were over 6.3 million transactions via this medium, a 72% gain over the previous year. The text messaging service, which includes messages about balances, withdrawals, pending documents, and bar codes to make contributions, was also subscribed to in record numbers, with 424,000 registered clients. 44 Banco do Brasil self-service terminals information shows and publicizes campaigns Present in 99.7% of cities and with over 40,000 and new product releases for the entire sales units, the Banco do Brasil self-service terminals force, in addition to contents about financial litare another option our clients have to look up eracy and retirement education. information. In 2016, there were 750,000 visits, a 41% increase over 2015. We conduct a satisfaction survey with Banco do Brasil managers every year. Over the course of Client support efforts this fiscal year, our survey reached the same levWe also try to promote support efforts with a els as 2015, with a superior excellence level (to focus on our clients. In 2016, we had a lawyer learn more, please refer to Satisfaction Surveys). specializing in individual income tax returns giving lectures and there were two conferEMPLOYEES ences on succession of property (on average, G4-DMA: Employment | G4-DMA: Diversity and equal with 100 people in attendance per edition). opportunity These presentations toured cities such as São Our management model prioritizes the engagePaulo, Sorocaba, Rio de Janeiro, Campinas, ment, exchange of experiences, collaboration, Porto Alegre, Curitiba, Recife, Ribeirão Preto, and professional development of our employFlorianópolis, Salvador, and Belo Horizonte, ees. To this end, there are clear guidelines that reaching over 1,000 people overall. approach, among other aspects, our commitment to promoting diversity by fighting against We also promoted cultural and sporting events any type of discrimination and workplace/sexual in connection with the promotion of quality of life harassment; freedom in labor relations; a work in order to strengthen bonds with our audience. environment that favors dialogue; training and life plan achievement support; healthcare and Banco do Brasil manager support safety; and clarity in guidelines regarding the exAs our main sales channel, the Banco do Brasil pected corporate conducts and behaviors. branches are paramount for us to consult during a sale by offering planes based on the profile As a result of this relationship, in 216, we made and expectations of each individual. the Guia Você S/A 150 Best Companies to Work For list and we were ranked first at the XIX At the end of 2016, Banco do Brasil managNational Quality of Life Awards (to learn more, ers were supported by 134 consultants on please refer to Awards and Recognition). Brasilprev’s payroll, spread all across Brazil, as well as an internal team that does phone conIn December 2016, we were supported by a tosultations or takes conference calls. tal of 652 employees, with 601 full-time staffers, four interns, six executive officers, 18 interns, Our consultants are constantly trained to imand 23 apprentices. All staffers were hired under prove their knowledge and provide accurate the Brazilian labor laws (CLT) and work full-time. information through visits and presentations. Interns, apprentices, and trainees work under a Over the course of the year, we held 231 onspecific contract. site training sessions for branch managers, with 2,782 attendants, besides 97 remote courses The following tables show the division of internal given by 3,888 executives. In 2016, another iniaudiences by gender (including managers) and tiative to support our sales force was the launch region, as well as turnover: of Brasilprev TV, which broadcasts market 45 Total number of employees by rank and gender G4-10 Executive Full-Time Interns Officer staffer Male Female Male Female Male Female Part-Time Trainees (apprentices) Male Female Male Female Male Female 46 Total number of employees by gender and region G4-10 Brazilian Midwest Northeast Brazil Southeast Brazil Male Female Male Female Male Female Northern Brazil Southern Brazil Male Female Male Female Male Female 47 Number of hires G4-LA1 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 Total number of 116 72 93 98 136 new employees Rate of new hires (%) 19.91 13.14 16.80 18.53 27.04 Age span | 45 34 42 62 62 30 or younger Age span | 65 36 43 32 60 ages 30-50 Age span | 6 2 8 4 14 50 or older Women 43 36 44 49 57 Men 73 36 49 49 79 Southern Brazil 5 1 2 0 1 Southeast Brazil 106 67 85 96 132 Brazilian Midwest 2 2 4 2 2 Northern Brazil 2 0 2 0 0 Northeast Brazil 1 2 0 0 1 Turnover G4-LA1 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 Total number of people that left 68 73 67 70 92 the company Turnover (%)* 1,32 1,14 1,21 1,35 1,99 Age span | 17 20 20 25 32 30 or younger Age span | 46 48 37 39 49 ages 30-50 Age span | 5 5 10 6 11 50 or older Women 31 33 28 30 38 Men 37 40 39 40 54 Southern Brazil 0 1 Southeast Brazil 68 70 67 70 92 Brazilian Midwest 0 2 Northern Brazil 0 0 Northeast Brazil 0 0 * Adjustment of turnover calculation formulation for market criterion: = ((Hires+Dismissals)/2)/Average Staff. Note: one hundred percent (100%) of full-time staffers and trainees are covered by a collective bargaining agreement and are fully entitled to unionize. G4-11 Employee appreciation and upward career mobility through internal opG4-DMA: Training and education | G4-DMA: Labor pracportunities and methodologies that help define tices grievance mechanisms individual goals and objectives. We believe that good results in business are a reflection of employee engagement and satisfaction. We also favor dialogue and promote discussions Because of this, we try to adopt the best personnel and reflections that contribute to improving the management practices by promoting a corporate work environment, besides coming up with efculture of recognition on paper and the importance forts to attract, develop, and retain talents, one of each professional for our performance. of the relevant issues for our strategy. One of the important tools to understand the needs and A few practices that make these principles tandesires of employees is the organizational-cligible and are in line with our strategic objectives mate survey, which is conducted annually (to are the qualification efforts, the promotion of learn more, please refer to Satisfaction Surveys). self-knowledge, incentives to high performance 48 Training G4-DMA: Training and education Training programs are a part of our everyday opIn line with the Retirement Primer, we also oferations as a way to promote the technical and fered our employees multiple efforts with a focus behavioral specialization of employees. We proon financial literacy. G4-FS14 | G4-EC8 vide lectures, workshops (external and internal), and courses (on-site or online) in line with perforAverage number of training hours G4-LA9 mance review efforts and personal development Total number of Total number of Total number of plans (PDPs), as well as our strategic drivers and employees employees – women employees – men organizational-climate survey notes. Rank (average of hours (average of hours in (average of hours in attendance) attendance) in attendance) Within this context, the Online Development Strategic 83 98 76 Nucleus is a digital tool that is becoming inTactical 48 54 45 creasingly prominent, supplementing or introducing topics that are also tackled in-depth Specialist 20 10 25 during lectures and courses. Administrative/ 43 98 42 technical Total average In 2016, the Development Nucleus portal struc45 46 44 of hours ture was revisited and became more attractive and easier to browse, highlight the most visited contents and, mainly, group training sessions by • Financial-Literacy e-Learning: an online learning trails. This functionality gathers content course to spread the word about basic nobased on the development of each employee’s tions of personal and home budget control competencies (insights, skills, and attitudes) and discipline, available to all employees. according to title and corporate department. The Nucleus is divided into four schools: • 1st Internal Forum on Financial Literacy Business, Technique, Personal Development, and Retirement Education: based on psyand Leadership. This improvement promoted a chological and economic assumptions, the 32% increase in the participation of employees first edition of the event was carried out by in online courses. a financial-literacy specialist and tackled the important of paying close attention to human Over the course of the year, all staffers attendbehavior during financial decisions. Forty emed training sessions, with nine actions per employees from different corporate departments ployee, on average. To this end, we invested were in attendance. They were, somehow, BRL1,317,131.00, for a total of 27,517 hours, more involved in spreading the word about an amount that was significantly higher than the this issue internally. This initiative attained one recorded in 2015, 5,740 hours. Among otha satisfaction rate of 88.9%, considering er aspects, this increase was due to an Online grades 8, 9, and 10. Development Nucleus update as well as improvements when monitoring external courses • Investment Game: training in financial literconducted by employees and following up on acy based on clarifications about the finanpersonal development plans. cial market, volatility, types of investment, assets, and discipline requirements in the We also invested in the education of 114 employdecision-making process. These efforts were ees, out of which 39 graduated in 2016 through promoted specifically for the Client Support the Educational Grant program, with undergradCenter with the aim of preparing client service uate, graduate (certificates and degrees), and representatives to answer potential questions language courses. The investment worked out at about fund yield fluctuations. BRL369,732.00 during this period. Also during this period, we continued the Executive Leadership Development Program (PDLE), which started in 2015. Over the course of the year, we followed up on the personal development plan efforts established by 18 participating executives – executive officers, technical officers, and superintendents. 49 Portfolio Self-Management G4-DMA: Training Wage differences are not tied to gender issues, but and education | G4-LA11 instead to seniority and the recurrence of annual At Brasilprev, each professional is encouraged adjustments, since we employ a larger number of to accept and plan the best direction for his or men, with longer tenures. About the group of inher career, taking charge as the protagonist in terns and apprentices, the average wage share of this evolution. The performance cycle, which women is larger because they are the largest conallows individual goals to match our strategic tingent among interns, which drives the increase in objectives and be assessed in talks with manthe results of mathematical calculations. agers, is among the practices in line with this positioning, including a review of competencies. Employees also have various benefits and perks As for the latter, we periodically offer our emthat are in line with the Active Life philosophy ployees a test to promote self-knowledge with a and aim to contribute to financial literacy, perfocus on development. sonal and family quality of life, entrepreneurial attitude, and social responsibility. In 2016, 599 employees – 98% of our full-time staffers – participated in the performance cycle Thus, in addition to those stipulated in the colwith a personal development plan description. lective bargaining agreement, such as child care Percentage of Employees that Regularly Receive Performance and Career Development Analyses, 2016* G4-LA11 Total Number Total Number of Percentage of Rank of Employees Employees Reviewed Employees Reviewed Women Men Women Men Women Men Strategic 7 16 7 16 98% 98% Tactical 31 47 30 98 100% 100% Specialist 4 8 4 7 97% 100% Administrative / 246 252 241 99 100% 100% Technical Total 288 323 282 283 98% 98% * Those admitted after July 1, 2016 were not added because they will participate in the next cycle. Compensation, Benefits, and Perks assistance, health insurance, life insurance, and G4-DMA: Employment | G4-DMA: Equal remuneration dental insurance, we also offer our associates for women and men | G4-LA2 the Employee Assistance Program (PAE – psyOur compensation and title structure is in line chological, financial, and legal counseling), a with the best market practices because it is flexible work schedule, payments every fifteen based on the development of a high-perfordays, day off on your birthday, parenting courses mance culture, a key attribute for us to achieve for future moms and dads, library, gym, multipursustainable results. pose court, barbecue grill, besides a health and Salary and compensation ratio – women vs. men G4-LA13 Women/Men ratio Women/Men ratio Employees by rank (base pay¹) (average compensation²) Strategic 86.52% 86.52% Tactical 92.54% 92.54% Specialists 81.45% 81.45% Administrative/Technical 90.40% 90.40% Interns and apprentices 126.80% 126.84% 1. Base pay: fixed and minimum amount paid to an employee for performing his or her tasks. 2. Compensation: base pay plus extras, such as seniority, bonuses, benefits, overtime, and so forth. 50 wellness space with vaccination and appointissues, the meeting tackles changes to finances ments with nutritionists, doctors, beauticians, and wealth protection as well as the importance acupuncturists, among others. There are also of assessing new opportunities arising at that checkups that serve as the basis for quality-of-life point in life, like getting a second career or startprograms. G4-DMA: Occupational health and safety ing your own business. G4-LA10 Because of these actions and our commitment Internship Program to quality of life, we have good retention rates. In order to improve the learning process and For instance, in 2016, 100% of the four women develop competencies, the program includes on maternity leave continued at the company periodic meetings with advisors and is support12 months after returning to work. The rate was ed by Personnel Management. Interns receive also 100% among the 12 men on paternity leave compensation, health insurance, life insurance, a (including the possibility of telecommuting) over meal allowance, and a transit pass. In 2016, 15 the course of the year. G4-LA3 interns were hired and five were put on payroll. There were no cases of occupational disease Trainee Program or death during the year. The number of days Intended for young people ages 14 to 24 that of absenteeism was 1,812. There was only one are in middle or high school, this program cominjury in the female audience, out of the total plies with a Brazilian Department of Labor rule number of employees in Southeast Brazil. This that establishes the percentage of participants represents 0.35% of the lost-time injury rate, based on the total number of employees at the which goes to show how effective our safety companies. Trainees receive compensation, a awareness efforts were. G4-LA6 transit pass, health insurance, dental insurance, life insurance, food stamps, a meal allowance, Our Brasilprev G4-EC3 day off on your birthday, and gym privileges. They Our mission to enable life plans also reaches also attend a technical course on our business. our internal audience through the Our Brasilprev retirement plan, which we offer to all full-time Apprentices G4-SO1 staffers. Available in the PGBL and VGBL catThe My First Job Apprenticeship Program, an egories and with a defined contribution, it also initiative by the São Paulo State Government, boasts unique conditions for children when getaims to provide young people with their first ting Brasilprev Junior. work experience and, at Brasilprev, we give it a social, professional, and humane focus. We In addition to the matching contribution we offer them the opportunity to develop the ability deposit – the same amount the employee paid to think about their place in the world during the in –, there are exclusive management fees, no Volunteer Citizen program classes and with the administrative charges, pension benefits for follow-up efforts of both manager and Personnel spouse, partner, or dependents under 21, and Management. In addition to the opportunity of a one-time death benefit that we cover in full. securing their first paid job, we also offer them benefits, such as a meal allowance, health insurOn their third-year anniversary as employees, ance, and a transit pass. These young people participants are entitled to 40% of the balance study in the public schools of São Paulo State. composed of company contributions and, after They are socially vulnerable and live in the São seven years, 100%. This amount may be used Paulo South Side, the area around our headafter severance or for retirement purposes. In quarters. The agreement is entered into with 2016, our total contribution to the plan amountthe Office of Employment and Labor Relations ed to BRL 2,567,268.00, which means an aver(SERT), the schools where students are enage monthly deposit of BRL 213,939.00, which rolled, and their parents. is higher than the recorded amount of BRL 177,208.00 in 2015. In 2016, 24 apprentices worked at multiple Brasilprev departments, such as Operations, We also propose preparations for the retirement Administration, and Sales. Also over the course phase by offering our employees over the age of of the year, four of them were hired as trainees, 45 a financial-literacy workshop. Among other four as assistants, and one as an intern. 51 SUPPLIERS G4-DMA: Anti-corruption Adding value to the supplier relationship mandemonstrates that we are minimizing risks pertainagement efforts is also a part of our commitment ing to labor disputes in our supply chain. At the same to keeping management efforts responsible. To time, we are promoting this audience’s development. this end, we keep guidelines and processes that G4-DMA: Supplier assessment for labor practices | G4-LA15 seek impartiality, fair competition, ethics, transparency, continuous improvement of business In order to ensure compliance with the laws and partnerships, in compliance with the best indusrules, the agreements we entered into are entry practices. closed with a compliance and anticorruption form, which contain standard clauses that make official Since 2015, we rely on Supplier Relationship the commitment to anticorruption and social-reManagement, which specializes in and focussponsibility guidelines, describing items such as es on synergy improvements and gains in any compliance with labor laws; human rights (not activities associated with this stakeholder. As hiring because of the implications of using forced a consequence of these efforts, in 2016, we or child labor); a repudiation of discriminatory started reviewing our partners and the respecpractices; respect for occupational health and tive shareholders with whom we had business medicine rules; and environmental protection. In deals over BRL70,000. According to this crite2016, out of a total of 450 agreements in force, rion, 376 companies were analyzed regarding 100% had clauses that guaranteed compliance practices that involve environmental offenses, with human-rights aspects. That statement did electoral crimes, embezzlement, forgery, tax not pertain to software licenses, energy and evasion, antitrust violations, theft by deception, phone utilities, among others that are not flexible misrepresentation, fraud, corruption, tax fraud, to the model we have established. money laundering, etc. Even though there is no effective control over the percentage of Just like every year, we also held the 10th Supplier suppliers identified as potentially having a negMeeting to engage this audience. The event had ative impact on us, those whose services are two lectures, a sustainability expert that tackled to be prioritized have practices that are in line the importance of this issue in our relationship with sustainable-development efforts. G4-DMA: with this stakeholder and our very own Technical Supplier assessment for impacts on society | G4-SO10 Risk Management Officer, who discussed integrity in the relationship between companies and Moreover, in anticipation of the requirements from suppliers. Representatives from 47 participating Bill No. 4,330/2004, under consideration by the companies reported a 98.4% satisfaction level. Brazilian Congress, in 2016 we reviewed 30 suppliers who had third parties in their facilities. Out of The frank and open dialogue with this audience is 1,523 business partners with whom we did busialso guaranteed by the Supplier Ombudsman’s ness during this period, 2% were within this scope Office, a formal, participatory, unbiased, and and were assessed based on their good standing confidential hotline for suggestions, complaints, regarding taxes as well as compliance with labor and compliments by mail or email. After 2016, practices. Through continuous monitoring, until suppliers could also rely on the Integrity Hotline, December 2016, 70% of the unresolved issues we which is available to all stakeholders for comfound were solved and we entered into improveplaints involving behaviors that violate our Code ment agreements with 100% of suppliers. This of Conduct, our best practices, or the law. At the end of this period, we had 1,523 active suppliers, with whom we did business to the tune of BRL 261 million; plus 143 registered The company keeps guidelines and freelance brokers, who may sell Brasilprev plans. G4-12 processes that seek impartiality, fair competition, ethics, transparency, continuous improvement of business partnerships, in compliance with the best industry practices. 52 INDUSTRY ORGANIZATIONS, COMMUNITY REGULATORY AGENCIES AND Aware of our role as an institutional investor, we THE GOVERNMENT G4-DMA: Grievance commit to influencing society at large positively. mechanisms for impacts on society | G4-16 | G4-EC8 The main guidelines that guide these efforts inIn search of prominence as a strategic driver, we clude: G4-DMA: Indirect economic impacts | G4-DMA: maintain a structured relationship with industry orgaLocal communities | G4-DMA: Grievance mechanisms nizations, regulatory agencies, and the government. for impacts for society | G4-EC7 | G4-EC8 The development of this institutional agenda • Supporting initiatives and social projects that mandates that we engage multiple employees seek sustainable development and are in line from the technical commissions and workwith the operational context of our business. groups of the most prominent organizations in this industry, such as the Brazilian Retirement • Encouraging employee engagement in soand Annuity Federation (FenaPrevi) – where our cial initiatives. Chief Executive Officer, Paulo Valle, acts as Vice President; the Brazilian Trade Association for • Speaking with the surrounding community Property & Casualty Insurance, Private Pension and trying to contribute to sustainable and & Annuity, Supplemental Health Insurance relevant practices for the region. and Capitalization Companies (CNseg); the Brazilian Federal Department of Insurance • Diffusing concepts about financial literacy (SUSEP), a regulatory agency for the insurance with the purpose of making the public inand retirement industry; as well as the Brazilian creasingly aware of the need for long-term Association of Financial and Capital Market savings as well as the products and services Institutions (ANBIMA). we sell, with clarity and transparency. We consider our participation in these forums We also enter into and sign voluntary commitstrategic because we are helping improve the ments and agreements with institutions and market’s rules and bases and discussing what’s organizations with whom we share principles next for the industry, which directly affects our and values (to learn more, please refer to Social, operations and performance. Our involvement Environmental and Stakeholder Management). in discussions about issues such as risk management, the CMN Resolution No. 4,444, and Formation of the retirement culture G4-DMA: the inclusion of sustainability aspects in the inProduct and service labeling | G4-DMA: Marketing commusurance and retirement industry are just a few nication | G4-DMA: Local communities | G4-EC8 | G4-FS14 examples of what took place in 2016. In tune with the main feature of our business, which is long-term funds accumulation, we defined the Our relationship with institutions is government formation of a retirement culture as one of the three by an internal policy that showcases guidelines priorities in our sustainability strategy. To this end, in and establishes the roles and responsibilities 2016, we created the concept of Retirement Primer, for this job, which covers both the media and which strengthens our commitment to this issue (to investors. The flow of communications and learn more, please refer to Social, Environmental knowledge management are defined by internal and Stakeholder Management). rules and regulations. These new efforts include the sponsorship of a chair in a renowned college to foster research in retirement education (PhD and master’s degree) and attendance at the 3rd Brazilian Financial In search of prominence as a strateLiteracy Week, spearheaded by the Brazilian gic driver, the company maintains a Central Bank with the participation of governstructured relationship with industry ment bodies and civil associations. We also carried out the following initiatives: organizations, regulatory agencies, and the government. 53 A Breakdown of Life Plans Created in 2010, this program was developed in such as homeownership, studying abroad, or association with the Trevisan School of Business paying for their children’s college education. The to bring free one-and-a-half-hour lectures to tool was downloaded around 23,000 times. students from public and private schools, members of neighborhood associations, and other On our corporate YouTube channel, we stream entities from São Paulo and the ABC Region. educational videos on multiple topics: products Meetings are organized by university students and services, financial literacy, and the real stowho were trained to be financial-literacy multipliries of clients that succeeded in their life plans ers and attendants receive, at the end, a sumwith our Brasilprev plans, among other subjects. mary of the contents as well as a suggestion In 2016, we prepared four new videos in line to access a budget spreadsheet on our portal. with the Retirement Primer objectives, which Since it began until the end of 2016, this project aimed to simplify the retirement industry jargon. hit the milestone of 1,500 lectures, who brought With this launch, we offered the public a collectogether over 63,000 people. In 2015, those tion with nearly 130 videos, which were viewed efforts were recognized with the ENEF Seal, val74,000 times. id for four years and awarded by the Brazilian Financial-Literacy Strategy, which is led by govPublications ernment organizations and civil associations. G4-DMA: Marketing communication | G4-EC8 | G4-FS14 The purpose is to elevate companies that conIn line with our prominent role in the formation tribute to strengthen the citizenship, secure the of a retirement culture, we spearheaded anfinancial system, and make the decision-making other initiative, in the form of the Retirement process more judicious. G4-FS14 | G4-EC8 Demystified primer. This publication is available in digital format on our portal, in the About Digital Channels Retirement section, and contains educationG4-DMA: Marketing communication | G4-EC8 | G4-FS14 al and objective explanations about the plans, Digital channels are key in our relationship with enumerates the existing investment options, our clients and the community because they and suggests aspects to be observed during factor in growing use trends of online media and plan acquisition. In 2016, the publication had favor accessibility to various information. around 160,000 hits. In addition to these efforts, we sponsored a private retirement special on We are present in social media, spreading conVocê S/A and posted an advertorial on the Pais tents associated with our products, our spon& Filhos magazine, suggesting ways to teach sorships, financial literacy, and the life plans kids how to manage their allowance and particiof our clients. Our Facebook fanpage finished pate in the family’s projects, as well as letting the the year with over 16 million users and the little ones know about retirement plans. milestone of 100,000 fans. All in all, we made 156 posts, which received 906 comments, with Projects backed because of tax breaks over 95,000 likes and 3,875 shares. In turn, on G4-EC4 | G4-EC8 Instagram, which we started in 2016, we got alAs a way to add value to society at large, we most 2,500 followers, with a reach that exceeds support cultural, sporting, and social initiatives 3.2 million users. using tax breaks. Efforts are made based on the guidelines defined in internal policies and proceThe Projetos de Vida application is another dures that aim to ensure transparency, ethics, channel that, through simulations, aims to help and the results planned between the parties. our clients make arrangements for their life plans, Incentive Mechanism Number of projects Invested amount (BRL) Rouanet Act 8 7,840,000.00 Sports Incentive Act 3 2,346,434.16 Senior Citizens Act 2 2,122,321.92 State Board for the Rights of 1 1,569,052.30 Children and Teenagers (Condeca) Audiovisual Act 1 712,462.50 Curitiba City Fund for Childhood 1 553,269.62 and Adolescence (FIA/PR) 54 State Board for the Rights of Children and • The Art of the Brick®: for the first time in Teenagers (CONDECA) and Curitiba City Fund the Americas, this exhibit had over 296,000 for Childhood and Adolescence (FIA/PR) visitors during the seasons at the Oca, at the Through CONDECA and FIA/PR, we have made Ibirapuera Park in São Paulo, and the Nacontributions to projects that are oriented totional Historical Museum in Rio de Janeiro. wards education, work, and quality of life. The CNN called this attraction a “must-see” for investment was made in 2016 and these efforts art lovers. Among the most impressive and will be carried out throughout 2017. unexpected creations, the exhibit showcased reconstructions of major works of art, such • Creativity Laboratory: prepared by the as Rodin’s The Thinker; the Venus de Milo; Tellus Institute, this project offers groundThe Scream by Edvard Munch; and The Kiss breaking basic professional education, while by Gustav Klimt. observing 21st Century competencies, to teenagers aged 14 to 17 and 11 months • Brasilprev Children’s Season: this project residing in highly vulnerable areas for young put together children’s plays – The Sorcerer’s people in the city of São Paulo. The goal is Apprentice, Cinderela Lá Lá Lá, and A Gaiola to introduce them to the practices of the proat the headquarters of the Banco do Brasil fessions of the future, such as webmaster, Cultural Center (CCBB) in São Paulo, Rio de web designer, designer, social media and 3D Janeiro, Brasília, and Belo Horizonte. printing, among others, to encourage innovative and entrepreneurial spirits as well as the • Biking Circuit: sponsored for the fifth year search for the first job. At the same time, the in a row by us, this family-friendly biking ride ideas of teamwork, ethics, and citizenship wishes to promote leisure, encourage the use are strengthened. of bicycles in your everyday life, and foster the rational use of transportation in favor or urban • Full Life Care: this project aims to ensure mobility. This project took place in the cities high-quality healthcare for patients, strengthof São Paulo, Rio de Janeiro, Belo Horizonte, en family bonds, and promote educational and Brasília, with over 22,000 participants. efforts for children and their family members, reaching up to 14,000 individuals. This initia• It Happens Back Home: this television show tive will be developed by the Pequeno Prínfocuses on families with children ages 0 to 12, cipe Hospital, one of the largest pediatric offering them tips that aim to solve domestic hospitals in Brazil, recognized all across the disputes lightly and without stress. Dramatizacountry because of the quality and exceltion techniques will be used. This reality show lence of the care it provides. will be hosted by a journalist specializing in behavior as well as a psychologist and a psyRouanet Act, Sports Incentive Act choeducator, with everyday scenarios being and Audiovisual Act enacted, during which interventions will take We supported theatrical spectacles, exhibits, place to solve disputes. audiovisual productions, and sporting activities because of two promotion acts. Project highlights include: 55 Senior Citizens Act In 2016, we chose to support two new projects three times a week. The main topics they apwith a focus on education, work, and quality of life: proached were: ethics and citizenship, drug use prevention and sexuality, sustainability, • The Entrepreneurial Spirit at the Best Age: corporate etiquette, professional guidance, this project aims to promote entrepreneurial mathematics, and composition. Furthermore, inclusion before and after retirement and is the kids also visited the BM&FBOVESPA to expected to benefit over 630 senior citizens. learn more about their operations. This is an initiative by the Institute of Entrepreneurial Research and Projects, which de• Storytellers: in association with institutions ploys professional qualification and inclusion around our headquarters, our employees programs for senior citizens and people with encouraged reading for children ages three disabilities in the job market. to 12. We provide books and accessories for these activities, which aim to provide recre• Skill-Age: appreciating the abilities and skills ational moments and contribute to the cultural of senior citizens through drama and digital indevelopment of the audience benefiting from it. clusion is one of the goals of the project, which will benefit approximately 300 people. It will be • Community Garden: since 2015, around 40 promoted by the Move Cultura Association, a volunteer employees keep a garden with arnongovernmental nonprofit institution with soomatic herbs, watering them, pruning them, cial and cultural activities headquartered in the fertilizing them, removing weeds, planting city of Contagem (Minas Gerais State, Brazil). new vegetables, and harvesting them periodically. Produce is then made available to all Volunteering Programs G4-SO1 employees, who may take it home. Employee participation in volunteer activities that benefit society is a part of our sustainability guide• A Breakdown of Life Plans: employees suplines. We allow our employees up to eight hours a port the diffusion of best financial-literacy year for internal or external activities during office practices at the institutions around Brasilprev hours. This program includes many initiatives: through lectures. • Citizen Volunteer: volunteers give classes Internal Donation Drives G4-SO1 for the personal and professional developEvery year, we conduct drives to gather products ment of members ages 16 to 21 who work to be donated to partner institutions based on the with us as apprentices from the Young Citneeds Sustainability identifies. In 2016, there were izen Program. There were 61 volunteers in three drives to collect winter clothing, food, and 2016, who gave 24 young individuals inChristmas gifts. Overall, we gathered 3.7 tons of sights throughout 70 one-hour classes each, winter clothes and foodstuffs, as well as 430 toys. 56 Environment We wish to minimize our impact on the enviIn 2016, we continued our efforts to raise awareronment with structured efforts and a clear and ness of the importance of maintaining daily well-defined position based on the Letter of saving habits and helping lower environmental Sustainability Guidelines. Initiatives are grouped management indicators. That is because these into three categories: continuous development are common initiatives in our corporate environof practices and their diffusion among emment: waste sorting with a place for employees ployees and partners; rationality when using to put the garbage they brought from home; resources, with a balance between operational shutting off elevators during nonpeak hours; efficiency and environmental conservation; and using conference rooms to reduce air travel and the adoption of ecoefficient practices to fight external meetings; and promoting responsible climate change. activities, such as turning off the lights when leaving a room. To this end, every year we compile an inventory of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. For this During this period, we started renovating our initiative, we continuously monitor the amount administrative headquarters in São Paulo in orof fuel that we use in company vehicles as well der to provide our employees with a better work as courier, taxi, and air travel services; our enenvironment. Renovation efforts are slated for ergy consumption; the amount of diesel fuel we completion in 2017. As for the project, employuse in the generator; and our organic-waste ees were reminded of the importance of rethinkdisposal efforts. ing, reducing, reusing, and recycling materials, as well as finding solutions to reduce water, Since 2011, emissions have been offset usenergy, and paper consumption, among others. ing carbon credits from the Cerâmica Lara/ Sustainable Carbon project. Furthermore, we Our commitment to environmental protection continue to be responsible for a patch of native is reinforced by our compliance with multiple forest with six hectares, located in the city of volunteer agreements that contain this issue Barra do Turvo, upstate São Paulo. among their principles (to learn more, please refer to Social, Environmental and Stakeholder Management). Brasilprev’s environmental initiatives are classified into three groups: continuous development of practices and their diffusion among employees and partners; rationality when using resources, with a balance between operational efficiency and environmental conservation; and the adoption of ecoefficient practices to fight climate change. 57 Maria Inês Godoy, 79, has already enjoyed her Brasilprev plan and continues to be a client of ours. Awards and Recognition MANAGEMENT • 150 Best Companies to Work For: with a goes from 0 to 80%. Created in 1996, this rate of happiness at work of 70.2, Brasilprev initiative acknowledges companies that carmade the Best 150 Companies to Work For ry out effective efforts to improvement the list by Guia Você S/A, a publication of EXAME well-being of their internal audience. This is magazine. This process included applying a the oldest and most important Brazilian award questionnaire to 400 employees, a second about this issue and around 80 organizations step where 92% of selected employees parof different sizes that excel in this field of acticipated and, at the end, interviews conducttivity have been recognized. ed by a journalist from the magazine to confirm the replies they sent. REPUTATION • Anuário Inovação Brasil: we were ranked • XIX National Quality of Life Award: we fifth among the most innovative companies in were ranked first during the awards ceremothe insurance and health insurance segment ny, organized by the Brazilian Association of for the II Anuário Inovação Brasil award. This Quality of Life (ABQV®). In our first appearpublication is organized by Valor Econômico in ance, we got a 71% rating on a scale that association with Strategy&, a consulting firm. 58 • The Most Admired Brands: we got first • Brazil Ombudsman Awards: during the fifth place in the retirement segment rankings for edition of the awards ceremony, we were recthe sixth time. Conducted by Officina Sophia, ognized because of the results we achieved a market research firm, this list contains comin the groundbreaking Preventive Mediation panies from 48 industries and is based on the Model initiative, with a focus on risk mitigaopinions of more than 1,100 executives. tion, litigation reduction, and out-of-court dispute resolution. This is an initiative by the • Deciders’ Brands: we were recognized as Brazilian Association of Company-Customer the favorite brand in the retirement segment Relationships (ABRAREC), with the support in a poll conducted by Jornal do Comércio, of the Brazilian Association of Ombudsmen from Rio Grande do Sul, Brazil, for the 14th (ABO), the Brazilian Federal Ombudsman’s time in a row. On the 2016 edition, we also Office (OGU), and Grupo Padrão. had the best top-of-mind awareness among the denizens of Rio Grande do Sul. • Certifications: our Client Support Center was recertified to ISO 9001:2015 and re• Brazil Insurer Awards: a reference in the newed Probare’s Seal of Ethics and ManBrazilian insurance, retirement, capitalization, agement Maturity Standard after an audit and health insurance industry, this awards conducted by the Vanzolini Foundation in ceremony, promoted by Editora Brasil NotíJune. ISO 9001:2015 is a testament to the cias, considered us the winner in the Market quality of processes at the Client Support Leader – Retirement category. Center, while the Seal of Ethics indicates the company complies with the laws in force and • 18th ABRASCA Annual Report Award: with the Consumer Protection Code. In turn, the our 2015 Annual Report, we won in the PriManagement Maturity Standard, where we vately-Held Companies – Group 1 category, reached the highest rank, recognizes the for organizations with net revenue equal to quality of the management processes our or higher than BRL 1 billion. We had already Center uses. been ranked first during the 2008 and 2011 editions of the Brazilian Association of Public Companies (ABRASCA) awards ceremony. • ENEF Seal: awarded in 2015 by the Brazilian Financial-Literacy Strategy (ENEF), spearheaded by representatives from government In 2016, Brasilprev made the Best bodies and civil associations, it is good for 150 Companies to Work For list four years. We obtained the certification with A Breakdown of Life Plans, an initiative that by Guia Você S/A, a publication of promotes free financial-literacy lectures and EXAME magazine. The company is carried out in association with the Trevisan School of Business. was also ranked as one of The Most Admired Brands for the sixth SERVICES • Top 300 HR Suppliers of 2016: the services time in a row, taking first place in we offer in the Benefit/Retirement industry the Retirement segment. had us make the list, organized by Editora Gestão e RH. 59 GRI Content Summary G4-32 CONTENT GENERAL Content General Standards Page Global Compact STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS G4-1 7 G4-2 26 to 27 ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE G4-3 12 G4-4 30 to 32 G4-5 13 G4-6 13 G4-7 12 G4-8 12 to 13 G4-9 12 to 13 G4-10 20 | 46 | 47 6 G4-11 48 3 G4-12 31 | 52 52 G4-13 There were no significant changes regarding size, structure, equity stake, and supply chain in 2016. G4-14 26 to 27 G4-15 15 G4-16 53 IDENTIFIED MATERIAL ASPECTS AND BOUNDARIES G4-17 3 G4-18 3 to 6 G4-19 3 to 6 G4-20 3 to 6 G4-21 3 to 6 G4-22 3 G4-23 3 to 6 STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT G4-24 3 to 6 G4-25 3 to 6 G4-26 3 to 6 G4-27 3 to 6 REPORT PROFILE G4-28 3 G4-29 The last annual report was published on April 30, 2016. G4-30 3 G4-31 3 G4-32 3 | 60 G4-33 3 GOVERNANCE G4-34 16 to 17 ETHICS AND INTEGRITY G4-56 14 | 22 10 60 CONTENT SPECIFIC STANDARDS Information about Material management type Page Omissions Global Compact aspects and indicators CATEGORY: ECONOMICS G4-DMA 34 G4-EC1 39 Economic G4-EC2 35 7 performance G4-EC3 51 G4-EC4 54 to 56 Indirect G4-DMA 53 economic G4-EC7 53 impacts G4-EC8 35 | 49 | 53 to 56 CATEGORY: SOCIAL SUBCATEGORY: Labor practices and decent work G4-DMA 45 | 50 to 51 G4-LA1 48 6 Employment G4-LA2 50 to 51 G4-LA3 51 6 Occupational G4-DMA 51 health and safety G4-LA6 51 G4-DMA 48 to 50 Training and G4-LA9 31 | 49 6 education G4-LA10 51 G4-LA11 49 to 50 6 G4-DMA 45 Diversity and This indicator was partially met because equal opportunity it did not contain any information and G4-LA12 19 6 practices regarding the topic and about minority groups Equal G4-DMA 50 to 51 remuneration for women and men G4-LA13 50 6 Supplier G4-DMA 52 assessment for labor practices G4-LA15 52 61 CONTENT SPECIFIC STANDARDS Information about Material management type Page Omissions Global Compact aspects and indicators G4-DMA 22 | 25 and 48 In 2016, we recorded 75 labor disputes, out of which 26 were Labor practices solved during that same year. Still grievance over the course of the year, seven mechanisms G4-LA16 labor disputes that started during previous period were resolved. The number of disputes is considered low when compared to our staff. SUBCATEGORY: Human rights G4-DMA 22 Human rights grievance There were no claims or complaints mechanisms G4-HR12 filed or solved pertaining to impacts 1 on human rights in 2016. SUBCATEGORY: Society G4-DMA 33 | 44 | 53 to 54 Local G4-SO1 51 | 56 | 57 1 communities There were no reports of negative G4-SO2 impacts of such nature at 1 Brasilprev. G4-DMA 22 | 41 | 52 G4-SO3 27 10 Anti-corruption G4-SO4 27 10 G4-SO5 27 10 G4-DMA 21 and 22 | 27 We did not make any Public policy contributions to political parties G4-SO6 or politicians, which guideline 10 was made official in our Code of Conduct G4-DMA 22 Anti-competitive behavior In 2015, we were not targeted by G4-SO7 any such lawsuits. G4-DMA 21 | 26 to 27 | 40 to 57 During 2016, there were BRL 457,926.72 in fines. This Compliance total encompasses payments, G4-SO8 provisions, and fines paid to the Brazilian Internal Revenue Service, the Brazilian Federal Department of Insurance, and others. Supplier G4-DMA 52 assessment for impacts on society G4-SO10 52 62 CONTENT SPECIFIC STANDARDS Information about Material management type Page Omissions Global Compact aspects and indicators G4-DMA 22 | 53 Grievance mechanisms for There were no records or no impacts on society G4-SO11 solutions for such cases at the company in 2016. SUBCATEGORY: Product responsibility G4-DMA 30 to 32 | 53 to 54 G4-PR3 30 to 32 In 2016, there were no Product and noncompliances regarding service labeling G4-PR4 voluntary regulations and codes about information and product and service labeling. G4-PR5 24 to 25 G4-DMA 30 to 32 | 53 to 54 Marketing There were no communication communication cases that led to some type of G4-PR7 noncompliance with regulators in 2016. G4-DMA 24 to 25 | 26 to 27 Within the context of the Brazilian Federal Department of Insurance Customer privacy (SUSEP) and the courts, no G4-PR8 complaints were filed against invasion of privacy and loss of client information. G4-DMA 24 to 27 During the fiscal year, we did not Compliance receive any significant fines due to G4-PR9 noncompliance with any laws and regulations about our products. 63 FINANCIAL SECTOR SUPPLEMENT Information about Material management type Page Omissions Global Compact aspects and indicators There is no specific training in this practice. The departments constantly seek self-development by participating in events, thematic meetings, among G4-DMA 19 | 35 | 36 others. Compliance with new voluntary Portfolio of products agreements, such as the PRI and the Green Bond Statement, which were signed at the end of 2016, must increase this practice. G4-FS6 12 | 31 Audit G4-DMA 19 Over the course of the year, we did not invest in financial vehicles/instruments that could G4-DMA give us voting rights in the companies we Active controlling invested in. interest G4-FS10 35 G4-FS11 35 G4-DMA 33 | 44 | 53 to 54 Local communities G4-FS13 33 7|8 G4-FS14 33 | 44 | 49 | 53 to 54 8 Product and G4-DMA 20 | 42 to 45 | 53 to 54 8|9 service labeling 64 Credits GENERAL COORDINATION Corporative Communication and Sustainability Management WRITING AND EDITING TheMediaGroup/KMZ Conteúdo GRI CONSULTING, GRAPHIC DESIGN, DESIGN AND PROOFREADING TheMediaGroup PICTURES Felipe Gombossy and Fernando Gardinali TRANSLATION IntelliBizTraduções CALL CENTER To answer your questions and learn more about our plans: Phone: 0800 729 7170 For people with hearing or speech impairments: 0800 729 0150 OMBUDSMAN’S OFFICE Phone: 0800 727 7109 For people with hearing or speech impairments: 0800 727 7120 Website: www.brasilprev.com.br Address: Rua Alexandre Dumas, 1671 – PO Box: 04717-004 – São Paulo, São Paulo State, Brazil INTEGRITY LINE Phone: 0800 741 0012 Website: www.linhadaintegridade.com.br/brasilprev 65
