Contents Letter from the The Euskaltel Group Organisational and Chairman and the CEO at a glance cultural capital Page 3 Page 5 Page 11 Human capital Customers Natural capital Page 19 Page 28 Page 36 Relationships Intellectual capital Other disclosures Page 42 Page 51 Page 53 Letter from the Chairman and the CEO We are especially proud of our Company's performance in 2016. The Euskaltel Group's results reflect solid growth in revenue, customers and profitability, and underline the success of our commitment to shareholders, customers and the market. Euskaltel hit several milestones in 2016. In The integration of Euskaltel and R consolidated little over one year, we completed three major the Group's growth in revenues, customers challenges: our IPO, the integration of R, the and results. During the first full year following leading operator in Galicia, to create the the integration, net profit stood at €62.1 number-one telecommunications group in million, nearly 11% of revenue, which came to Northern Spain, and the distribution of €572.9 million for the period. shareholder dividends. This excellent business performance was These milestones demonstrate our reflected in a 5.1% rise in EBITDA, to €280 commitment to our shareholders and million. reinforce our aims of generating value for The integration process, underway since early investors, offering the most advanced 2016, was highly successful, unlocking products and services to our customers and synergies valued at €12.9 million. generating wealth and economic and technological development in our communities, both through R in Galicia and We are leaders in our market. This through Euskaltel in the Basque Country. leadership position energizes us to continue During our first complete year of public with a consistent strategy, a strategy that trading, we met our commitments in terms of has enabled us to meet the expectations of revenue, EBITDA, operating cash flow and our stakeholders in 2016 and will allow us to leveraging. continue to do so in the future. 2016 was also a key year in terms of the In 2017, we expect to see 15% more synergies Euskaltel Group's strategy. During the period, unlocked, well above the commitments made. we fulfilled our mission of generating value Our plan is ambitious and exacting. Yet with locally and our vision of being a leading discipline and rigour, it will allow us to company in Northern Spain, providing telecommunications services in both the optimise interconnection costs and resource efficiency, drawing the most from each Basque Country and in Galicia. -3company's assets and negotiating the best professionals as the driver of this strategy. The conditions with suppliers. skills and knowledge of our employees and their ability to foster the confidence of Despite the strong sector competition, we are customers facilitate the work of selling our maintaining our market share and holding our broad range of products and services. position as leaders in Northern Spain. Moreover, we are improving our cash flow We also contribute to the technological through more efficient management of costs development and economic growth of our and investments. local communities, by generating stable and quality employment, wealth and progress. At We aim to provide a comprehensive response the same time, we reward the confidence to people’s communication needs and help placed in us by our shareholders by increasing businesses boost their productivity by the value of shares and by distributing providing them with information management dividends. and communication tools. We are grateful for the support shown by our Our leading position energizes us to shareholders, the trust placed in us by our continue with a consistent strategy, a customers and the efforts of our employees, strategy that has enabled us to meet the without whom these results would not have expectations of our stakeholders in 2016 been possible. and will allow us to continue to do so in the future. For 2017, we undertake to continue contributing to the economic and social Accordingly, in 2017 we will continue to development of our communities, sharing consolidate our business model, the values and the corporate culture that maintaining a strategy focused on longset us apart from other telecommunication term value for customers. This will be operators, while generating even more reflected in a bundling strategy to grow in value for our shareholders. terms of RGU/Subs as well as a mobile convergence strategy to add new lines and improve service costs. We stand firm in our deep-rooted During 2016, the Group approved the 2016commitment to the market in which we carry 2018 corporate social responsibility (CSR) plan out our activity. Our business undertaking, in order to create value for all stakeholders which had its beginnings in the Basque through several lines of actions and to Country, has now expanded to Galicia, enhance the company's transparency. The CSR simultaneously meeting the needs of all our plan also mirrors our commitment and stakeholders. adherence to the United Nations Global For 2017, we undertake to continue Compact, following the principles established contributing to the economic and social in the agreement and supporting the development of our communities, sharing the Sustainable Development Goals. values and the corporate culture that set us We are well aware that our leadership and the apart from other telecommunication sustainability of our success must be welloperators, while generating even more value grounded in a customer-focused management for our shareholders. model, placing the Euskaltel Group's team of Alberto García Erauzkin Francisco Arteche Chairman CEO -4The Euskaltel Group at a glance About us We are the leading convergent We are leaders in fibre optics and telecommunications group in Northern convergent telecommunications services Spain, with deep roots in and commitment (broadband, mobile and landline to the Basque Country and Galicia, where telephone, and pay TV) in the Basque we operate via the operators Euskaltel and Country and Galicia, with a solid customer R. base and complementary business models. We are a mobile phone operator with our We offer services to a market of 5 million own 4G licence and the largest proprietary people, meeting the needs of over 715,000 next-generation fibre optic network in the residential customers and companies. market. €572.9 million in Euskaltel certified its management system for all its activities in the Basque Country, under UNE-EN ISO 14001:2015 revenue, up 68% on 2015 -15.4% in use of fuels vs. 2015 €0.36/share, for a yield of 527 employees 4.43% Training hours: 41,248 66% of customers with €179.9 million threeand four-project investment in R&D&I in the past decade at the Euskaltel contracts, up 4 pp on 2015 Group #1 in the sector in terms of 85 partnerships with claims resolution* community organisations 400,000+ beneficiaries *Euskaltel’s scope -5Integration of Euskaltel and R organisational structure that seeks Euskaltel is the leading excellence and competitiveness in its two telecommunications operator in the key markets. Both Euskaltel and R are Basque Country, with over 350,000 km of adapting their structures to drive further next-generation fibre, offering internet, growth, shore up their customer focus, mobile and landline telephone, broadband develop communications solutions for and digital television services. In Galicia, R corporate and individual customers and is the preferred operator among Galician maximise synergies, thereby boosting the households and businesses, thanks to the company's results while maintaining their 291,000 km of fibre optic cable in place. deep-rooted individual commitments to the Basque Country and Galicia, As part of process of becoming the leading respectively. telecommunications group in Northern Spain, the Euskaltel Group has defined an The integration process seeks several fundamental goals beyond efficiency and generation of value for our stakeholders: CUSTOMER FOCUS GLOBAL VIEW To shore up proximity to the customer, To develop areas that strengthen the Group’s maintaining the local roots of each brand in the growth both in the Basque Country and in Basque Country and Galician markets by Galicia, with the creation of the Corporate strengthening Euskaltel and R business unit autonomy yet ensuring responsibility over Marketing and Innovation areas for the operations, and guaranteeing excellent customer development and implementation of specific service. To take actions to strengthen communications solutions for businesses and relationships with the business segment in both individuals, the launch of new products, and the markets search for technological alliances in the ICT field OPERATING EFFICIENCIES To maximise operating efficiencies and to ensure agility, consistency and flexibility in the decision-making process -6VERY POSITIVE BOTTOM LINE during the first year of integration, with synergies valued at €12.9 million. We were able to take major strides in the integration and secure strong business results (68% improvement in EBITDA vs 2015 in Euskaltel and R). We are applying maximum discipline and rigour in the integration of R, an ambitious yet exacting process. During 2016, EBITDA rose more than 5.1% vs 2015, driven by higher revenues (1.3%) and strong management of direct costs. Synergies valued Cash flow generated in 2016, after debt at service, stood at €135 million, allowing us €12.9 million to distribute dividends to shareholders. Synergies at EBITDA level are valued at €9.8 million. Along with Capex savings of €3.1 million, this totals €12.9 million, distributed as follows: What synergies have been unlocked so far? The most relevant actions to boost operating efficiency during the integration process are as follows: MOBILE HOST MIGRATION UNIFICATION OF THE MOBILE STRATEGY Optimisation of interconnection costs while Elimination of the mobile handset subsidy in R and maintaining the quality of our service application of the Euskaltel handset policy based on product support (rate) BEST USE OF ASSETS Shared use of Euskaltel network assets NEGOTIATION STRENGTH and of R's TV platform OPTIMISATION OF HUMAN Optimisation of economies of scale, RESOURCES through greater negotiating power with Integration of teams and creation of a suppliers of products and services, TV corporate culture, minimising those content, copyrights, etc. activities that do not add value to the business and carrying out initiatives to bring outsourced services back into the company -7Identification and application of the best CSR practices in Euskaltel and in R What are the keys behind a successful integration? The Group's main assets: the organisation and its people THE ORGANISATION PEOPLE • The integration process was MANAGED • The INVOLVEMENT of Euskaltel and R work independently from day-to-day business teams was essential when sharing experiences management, under the direction and leadership and identifying the best practices to be of an integration team. implemented. • During the ANALYSIS and DIAGNOSTIC phase, • COMMITMENT to the established time frames significant time was spent on learning and and to the unlocking of synergies understanding the processes and procedures of • DEVELOPMENT of employees' talent, in order to each company, so that the best practices of each cultivate their technical and non-technical company could be identified and used. abilities • INVOLVEMENT of both organisations (i.e., with neither way of working taking precedence over the other), engaging both companies in the decisions agreed. What steps still need to be taken in this process? • Continue optimising TV content and copyrights costs • Improve sales costs • Maximise sales opportunities in the companies segment • Follow up on the measures implemented during 2016 (in During 2017, we will focus on particular, the effect of the mobile surpassing the targets announced host migration) to the market and on DRIVING THE • Unify the corporate values INTEGRATION PROCESS, with • Roll out the 2016-2018 Corporate Responsibility Master Plan, which special attention on CULTURE, implements the best CSR practices PEOPLE and the ORGANISATION. identified in both Euskaltel and R • Extend the scope of the integrated management systems to the Group as a whole -8Business model The telecommunications market has challenging macroeconomic environment. undergone a major transformation in The main trends affecting the market are recent years, in order to adjust to the as follows: Telecommunications sector Euskaltel's response Convergence: bundled offers with added value The bulk of our services are offered as part of The market has been characterised by a rapid bundles, combining several services under a transition towards convergence of landline and mobile single invoice. services, with operators bundling services such as A total of 66% of residential customers and 53% broadband, pay TV, mobile and landline telephone of SMEs have contracted bundles of three or four services. This reduces cancellation rates and increases products (3P or 4P), which has created greater per-customer revenue. ties with these customers and boosted our percustomer revenues. Consolidation process The acquisition of R gave rise to the number-one The number of agents in the market has decreased telecommunications group in Northern Spain, significantly, following numerous M&A processes of consolidating the Group's growth in revenues companies seeking synergies. (€572.9 million), customers and profit (€62.1 million). Higher rates Our rates increase (€1 in the OSOA pack with The reduction in the number of operators has mobile and landline phone) is the lowest on the favoured more rational competition, halting the market. downturn in prices. Higher data use and faster speeds We have a proprietary next-generation fibre According to a study by CISCO, there will be 207 optic network and an outdoor WiFi network, as million internet-connected devices in Spain in 2017, well as 4G mobile, proprietary frequencies at which equals six connections per person. A total of 17 2.6GHz and competitive wholesale mobile exabytes will be transferred, double that exchanged agreements. today. In addition, mobile data traffic will grow at a much faster pace. To serve this reality, the greater bandwidth offered by next-generation networks is becoming more and more of a necessity. Importance of TV and content We offer pay TV services through a varied offer With service convergence, TV has become the key of digital programming, with unique bundles and factor for securing customers. This is evidenced by the features such as Replay, Videoteka and Edonon, significant investment in content being made in the Rebobina and TV Comigo. Our content offer sector, particularly in sports content. focuses on providing customers a competitive option while ensuring profitability for our shareholders. Stiffer competition We are the number-one group in Northern Spain As the large operators accelerate the roll-out of their and have deep roots in the communities in which next-generation networks in the areas in which the we operate. Our philosophy is to act as a driver Euskaltel Group is present, competitive pressure could of these communities, generating employment increase, leading to a drop in prices and a possible loss and business opportunities, to cultivate the of some customers. loyalty of our customers and the sense of pride of our employees. In this highly-competitive business context, a solid track record in sustainability. since their earliest days both Euskaltel and Accordingly, during 2016, work was R have considered their ties to and undertaken to integrate the CSR policies identification with these communities as and strategies existing at both companies. the cornerstone of their actions, and have -9. In May 2016, the Euskaltel Board of quantifiable targets. The outcome of this Directors approved the Group CSR policy, process was a CSR policy setting out eight setting the basis for consolidating a lines of action, further implemented in the sustainable and unique undertaking, in line 2016-2018 Corporate Responsibility Master with Euskaltel's adherence to the United Plan, which establishes the objectives and Nations Global Compact in 2003. In monitoring indicators that ensure creating this policy, we looked to the UN's consistent application of the policy. The 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, Corporate Responsibility Master Plan is the Paris Climate Agreement and the best aligned with the UN's Sustainable practices set out in the Code of Good Development Goals (SDG) and therefore Governance issued by the Spanish National with its Agenda 2030, allowing the Securities Market Commission (Comisión company's contribution in that regard to Nacional de Mercado de Valores, CNMV). be measured and managed. We also took into account relevant aspects The plan serves as guidance for the Group's for Euskaltel identified in the materiality first Corporate Responsibility Report, analysis verified with the Group sharpening the focus on the most relevant management areas, in order to issues for the Euskaltel Group and its subsequently identify priorities and set stakeholders. 10 Organisational and cultural capital “Since its incorporation in 1995, Euskaltel has never strayed from applying the best corporate governance practices. In every business decision, it has taken into account the different codes issued by the CNMV, from the Olivencia Code in 1998 to the latest code published in February 2015 . Alberto García Erauzkin We are the leading telecommunications commitment to excellence in corporate group in Northern Spain, with deep roots governance and that undertakes to adopt and autonomy in the regions in which we the best practices in that area. We are operate. At the same time, we are a listed firmly committed to long-term sustainable company that demonstrates its management. OUR ORGANISATION PRINCIPLES OF CONDUCT Our governing bodies actively seek Our mission, vision and corporate excellence and best practices. values guide us in all decisions and in our relationships with 100% stakeholders. compliance with the CNMV's good governance recommendations RISK MANAGEMENT CSR MANAGEMENT Our risk management system We contribute to the economic, promotes protection of both environmental and social growth of the Euskaltel's assets and its reputation. communities in which we operate. 11 Our organisation Shareholder structure The Euskaltel Group comprises the parent Personalizados, S.L. (67.20%). Euskaltel has company Euskaltel, S.A., along with R Cable been listed on the Bilbao, Madrid, y Telecomunicaciones Galicia, S.A. (100%) Barcelona and Valencia stock exchanges and Cinfo, Contenidos Informativos since 2015. Our shareholder base is largely committed to the Group, showing strong loyalty to us over the long term. Board of Directors Euskaltel, S.A. is governed and managed by general policies, strategies and guidelines its shareholders in general meeting and by to be followed in the Euskaltel Group. the Board of Directors. Each year, the Board of Directors evaluates its performance and that of its committees. The Euskaltel Group's Board of Directors is Based on these findings, the Board entrusted with adopting agreements on all proposes action plans to remedy any issues that, by law or the corporate bylaws, weaknesses detected. do not fall to the shareholders in general Every three years, an external consultant meeting. The core of the Board's mission is assists the Board of Directors in this to approve the strategy and organisation evaluation. The independence of the needed to implement, supervise and external consultant is verified by the control senior management's compliance Appointments and Remuneration with the objectives set and adherence to Committee. the statutory objective and interest. The Board of Directors is endowed with the Given that the majority of the broadest powers and authority to manage appointments to the Euskaltel Board of and represent the Euskaltel. It may entrust Directors were set to expire prior to the senior management and the management 2017 Ordinary General Shareholders' bodies with day-to-day administration, as Meeting, it was necessary to submit well as the dissemination, coordination and decisions in that regard (renewals or new general implementation of the company’s appointments) to the shareholders at the policies and guidelines, in order to focus on 2016 General Shareholders' Meeting. defining, supervising and monitoring the Accordingly, in 2016, an intense selfassessment and Board member selection 12 process was carried out, led by the The selection process aimed to round out chairman of the Appointments and the range of knowledge and experience Remuneration Committee. This process already contributed by members of the included: Board of Directors. a) An individual assessment of each Board At the General Meeting, the shareholders member whose post was coming up for approved, with a solid majority, all Board renewal member re-election and appointment proposals put forth. b) The search for well-known and wellrespected candidates with At 31 December 2016, the Euskaltel Board demonstrable experience in the of Directors comprised the following ten telecommunications sector, placing directors (two executive directors, three special emphasis on experience in proprietary directors and five independent listed companies and a strong directors): knowledge of corporate governance practices DATE OF FIRST DATE OF LAST MEMBERS POST CATEGORY APPOINTMENT APPOINTMENT Mr. Alberto García Erauzkin Chairman Executive 28-11-2000 27-06-2016 Mr. Francisco Manuel CEO Executive 27-06-2016 27-06-2016 Arteche Fernández-Miranda Mr. José Ángel Corres Vice Chairman / Lead Independent 08-03-2013 27-06-2016 Abasolo Independent Director Kartera 1, S.L., represented by Ms. Alicia Vivanco Member Proprietary 27-06-2016 27-06-2016 González Mr. Alfonso Basagoiti Zavala Member Proprietary 08-03-2013 08-03-2013 Mr. Javier Fernández Alonso Member Proprietary 30-09-2015 12-11-2015 Ms.Belén Amatriain Corbi Member Independent 31-03-2015 31-03-2015 Mr. Iñaki Alzaga Etxeita Member Independent 31-03-2015 31-03-2015 Ms.Elisabetta Castiglioni Member Independent 27-06-2016 27-06-2016 Mr. Miguel Ángel Lujua Member Independent 27-06-2016 27-06-2016 Murga The Euskaltel, S.A. Board of Directors comprises five independent directors (50%) and three women (30%), thereby • Bring to the Board of Directors those complying with Recommendations 14 and proposals that the chairman deems 15 of the Code of Good Governance for appropriate for the successful operation Listed Companies, issued by the CNMV. of the company, particularly those corresponding to the operation of the In accordance with article 15 of the Board Board of Directors itself and other of Directors Regulations, the chairman of corporate decision-making bodies the Board is entrusted with certain powers, • Promote the work of the consultative including the power to: committees of the Board of Directors • Call and preside over meetings of the and ensure that they carry out their Board of Directors and any meetings of duties and responsibilities efficiently the Executive Committee, setting the and with due coordination, with the agenda for the meetings and directing appropriate organisation for such the discussion and deliberations purposes • Preside over the General Shareholders’ • Ensure that the directors receive, in Meeting and direct the discussions and advance of meetings, sufficient deliberations that take place thereat 13 information to deliberate on the items management of the organisational on the agenda structure used to define future strategy, corporate development, investor relations, internal audit and the general secretariat • Prepare and submit to the Board of (including Legal Affairs, Communications Directors a schedule of dates and and Institutional Relations areas, as well as matters to be considered, stimulating the Euskaltel Foundation), for both debate and the active participation of Euskaltel and R Cable. the directors during meetings, The CEO has been delegated all the powers safeguarding their freedom to take of the Board of Directors, other than those positions that cannot be delegated for legal or • Organise and coordinate the periodic statutory reasons, or the power to evaluation of the Board as well as any guarantee third parties. chief executive of the company, and as the person responsible for the The Board of Directors has two management of the Board and for the committees, the Audit and Control effectiveness of its operation, ensure Committee and the Appointments and that sufficient time is dedicated to the Remuneration Committee. These bodies do discussion of strategic issues not carry out executive functions and are • Approve and review refresher governed by their respective internal programmes for each director when the regulations. Their main function is to assist, circumstances warrant inform and submit proposals to the Board in the matters entrusted to them at any In addition to the functions in connection given time. with the post, the chairman of the Board, as executive director, carries out the Most of the members of these committees following executive functions in the are independent directors, in compliance Euskaltel Group: definition of the corporate with Recommendations 39 and 47 of the strategy, supervision of executive and CNMV's Code of Good Governance for operational management, and executive Listed Companies. Audit and Control Committee at 31 December 2016 MEMBERS POST CATEGORY Mr. Iñaki Alzaga Etxeita Chairman Independent Kartera 1, S.L., represented by Ms. Alicia Vivanco González Member Proprietary Mr. José Ángel Corres Abasolo Member Independent Ms. Elisabetta Castiglioni Member Independent Appointments and Remuneration Committee at 31 December 2016 MEMBERS POST CATEGORY Mr. José Ángel Corres Abasolo Chairman Independent Mr. Alfonso Basagoiti Zavala Member Proprietary Mr. Javier Fernández Alonso Member Proprietary Ms. Belén Amatriain Corbi Member Independent Mr. Miguel Ángel Lujua Murga Member Independent The Board of Directors meets as often as latter deems appropriate for the proper suitable to properly perform its duties and operation of the company. at least six times per year. At least one A key part of Euskaltel's strategy is to meeting is held each calendar quarter. The improve the consistent quality of its Board of Directors also meets on the dialogue with institutional investors and initiative of the chairman, as often as the their representatives (proxy advisors) in corporate governance matters, so that the 14 resolution proposals submitted at the Spanish Limited Liability Companies Law, General Shareholders' Meeting are met the Euskaltel Board of Directors with broad support. remuneration policy for 2016, 2017 and 2018 was approved at the General Through face-to-face meetings with these Shareholders' Meeting held on 27 June proxy advisors, Euskaltel ascertains, first2016. The Annual Report on the hand, the expectations of its institutional Remuneration of Directors for 2015 was shareholders. It then takes their opinions also submitted to a consultative vote at into account when preparing the different that meeting. proposals submitted to the shareholders in General Meeting. Both proposals were broadly supported by shareholders, with 97.8% and 99.7% votes In terms of compensation and in in favour, respectively. accordance with article 529.19 of the Best practices At the last meeting of Euskaltel's Board of pending compliance and approved the Directors in 2015, the directors assessed modifications necessary to bring compliance with the recommendations set governance into line with all pending out in the CNMV's Code of Good recommendations, as part of its 2016 Governance. The Board was apprised of efforts. the most significant recommendations Steps toward improvement in 2016 Approval of the policy for communication and contacts with shareholders, institutional investors and proxy advisors, in line with Recommendation 4 Approval of the director selection policy, in line with Recommendation 14 Modification of articles 9 and 18 of the Boards of Directors Regulations, to limit the maximum number of boards of listed companies on which the company's directors may serve and to endow the lead independent director with the powers foreseen in the CNMV's Code of Good Governance, in line with Recommendations 25 and 34, respectively Evaluation of the Board of Directors in May 2016 upon expiry of mandates and re-election and appointment of new directors, in line with Recommendation 36 Update of the risk management policy and creation of the corporate Compliance area within the Euskaltel Group, in accordance with Recommendations 45 and 46 Approval of the addendum to the chairman's contract, in line with Recommendations 63 and 64 Update of the CSR policy, in line with Recommendation 54 All the above steps have brought us into full compliance with the CNMV's corporate 100% compliance with CNMV governance recommendations and the best recommendations in 2016 practices in this area. 15 Principles of conduct Our MISSION focuses Our VISION is Our corporate VALUES on creating value ambitious and entails a are our identity strong commitment markers A leading group in To provide a Northern Spain, providing comprehensive response to global ICT solutions to people’s communication Our corporate values are match the needs of the needs and help businesses our identity markers. They market and rendering boost their productivity by determine the ways in services for customers, as a providing them with which we operate and benchmark in service, information management understand the framework commitment and support, and communication tools, of relationships with ready to take up thereby making a internal and external opportunities for growth contribution to social and parties.” and development in new economic development in business and other our communities” geographic markets” In order to ensure that these principles are Committee, which bears ultimate transmitted to all Euskaltel professionals, responsibility for the effective supervision the Code of Ethics and Conduct was and monitoring of the regulatory approved in 2015. This code sets out environment affecting the Group's conduct rules for all employees, business. In order to transmit to employees irrespective of their hierarchical position, Euskaltel's concern for preventing crimes and for any person working in the name or and fighting fraud, and to give these on behalf of the Euskaltel Group. professionals the practical tools they need Furthermore, R has its own code of to detect and avoid corrupt practices, the conduct. Both codes are aligned, thereby committee organises and offers training promoting the adoption of consistent courses (in person, e-learning, etc.) on conduct guidelines across the entire value criminal risks and on the tools available chain. within the company for mitigating these risks. Supervision of compliance with the code is entrusted to the Corporate Defence First sector company to obtain AENOR certification for crime prevention, shoring up its commitment to an ethical culture and good governance 16 Risk management The Board of Directors oversees the Code of Conduct and with prevailing Euskaltel Group's risk management system, legislation. Within the scope of the annual through the Audit and Control Committee. audit plan, approved by the Audit and The system is managed by senior Control Committee, internal audits are management and throughout the carried out on the degree of compliance organisation at large. The risk management with the code. system is a comprehensive, round-theclock system, managed at corporate level What are the main risks that could affect by each company and management area achievement of our business objectives? Based on the COSO model, we identify the within the consolidated group. main strategic, operational, information In the framework of its risk management and compliance risks to be mitigated in system, Euskaltel has established order to safeguard both Euskaltel's assets operational controls that mitigate risks, and its reputation. thereby ensuring compliance with the Euskaltel has implemented procedures and systems for taking into account its risk tolerance in all corporate decisions. The Audit and Control Committee Regulations are available here: http://www.euskaltel.com/webektest/Gale riaCorporativo/Documentos/gobierno_cor porativo/es/reglamento_comision_auditori a_control_es.pdf The Euskaltel Group's risk control and control and manage all the risks facing the management policy establishes the basic Group, so it can secure its objectives and principles and general action framework to successfully carry out its strategies. 17 CSR management Euskaltel is ranked 30th out of 113 companies in the 2016 Informe Reporta, which analyses the quality of public information disclosed by companies listed on the Madrid Stock Exchange General Index (IGBM). As a socially-responsible company, The team meets every two months to Euskaltel undertakes to base its apply control tools such as the Group's stakeholder relations on ethical and strategic CSR scorecard, the CSR scorecards transparent criteria, issuing accurate and of each department, the Corporate complete information that reflects the Responsibility Report, the workplace company's sustainable commitment, a climate survey, the company survey, cornerstone of its business strategy and internal audits and the bi-monthly activities. monitoring reports. The Group has defined the tools needed to The CSR plan will be used in designing the evaluate the implementation and Group's strategic plan. performance of the 2016-2018 Corporate The CSR policy is coordinated by the Responsibility Master Plan, in order to corporate Institutional Relations area, properly manage both internal and which organises the CSR team and its external resources while recognising its meetings. legal obligations to and other commitments with stakeholders. The Board of Directors reviews the CSR policy, its design and implementation every The Corporate Responsibility Master Plan is two years, thereby ensuring consistency in monitored by a CSR team comprising the model adopted. representatives from the departments that carry out activity in the previously-defined corporate social responsibility areas. 18 Human capital We aim to select, develop and retain talent and to foster personal and professional growth among all Group employees, involving them in the business undertaking and offering a good working environment in terms of training, work/life balance, equality, compensation, safety and ethical values. During the integration process, the Human improving collective performance through the Resources areas were restructured in order to comprehensive management system. maximise operating efficiencies, ensuring These efforts have led to the establishment of agility, standardisation and flexibility in the a motivation and alignment programme, a decision-making process while providing people programme and an organisation leadership for the Group's teams. programme, taking the shape of instrumental The organisation, human resources and quality plans aimed at implementing all the initiatives plan establishes the measures to strengthen contained in the three lines of action: confidence in the company, by managing confidence, individual performance and diversity, enhancing employee engagement collective performance. through the healthy company model, and LOCAL EMPLOYMENT AND VALUE CREATION DIVERSITY AND EQUALITY We contribute to creating local employment and wealth, strengthening our social Through our equality plan, we foster a commitment with our communities. balanced and diverse work environment, as an inclusive company. 527 Group HEALTH AND WELL-BEING workforce DEVELOPMENT, YOUNG TALENT AND SUCCESSION We encourage continual improvement of the work environment, by applying We cultivate the professional work/life balance measures that help development of all Group employees. employees achieve better physical, mental We collaborate with universities and and social well-being, which in turn educational centres to support the creates a pride in belonging and a better 19 workforce integration and workplace climate. development of young people. Local employment and value creation Euskaltel Group as local employment source The Euskaltel Group places high priority on The first step in this project is to define the consistently applying the values that build a shared corporative values espoused by the consolidated brand reputation and that Group's 527 professionals (44% women and attract the best employees and talent. 56% men). Our human resources policy seeks to The Euskaltel Group helps create wealth and maintain the stability and continuity of our employment in the communities in which it professional team, offering employees operates. In the Basque Country, it has flexible employment conditions and a better created 337 direct jobs and over 2,000 work/life balance. indirect positions. In Galicia we employ 190 people and generate nearly 1,500 indirect In order to identify the action lines necessary jobs. to create a new Group culture drawing from the best of both Euskaltel and R, the Of total staff, 99% enjoy the security of a cultural focus proposal has been prepared. permanent employment contract. 99% of staff with permanent contracts 43 years average age of employees In a show of mutual trust and consensus, in 2016, and 36 and 40 in 2017 and 2018, 2015 the 3rd Euskaltel Collective Labour respectively. A total of 79.82% of employees Agreement was signed, implementing the are covered by the Collective Labour following improvements over the previous Agreement. agreement: five-year company commitment On 29 December 2016, a provisional to sustainability (until 31 December 2018); agreement was signed in relation with the first 1%-2% increase in wages in accordance with Collective Labour Agreement of R, ratified by a the company's economic performance (based vast majority of the employees (96% of staff). on prior-year EBITDA); unanimous agreement The preliminary agreement addresses key with trade unions represented in the bargaining issues such as job security, working company; work/life balance by increasing the hours, partial consolidation of variable number of hours employees can take for remuneration, wage increase, employee personal reasons, from 24 in 2015 to 32 in benefits, on-call shifts and availability. 20 Creation of value in relationships with other companies In the past two years, the Euskaltel Group has As an outcome of these alliances and drawing moved toward a model focused on generating heavily from Euskaltel's experience, these value and wealth in the community, by partners have generated employment and forming alliances with local sector-related have grown in size. GFI created over 200 jobs companies. In order to support economic in connection with the Euskaltel project, as development in the areas in which the Group well as new projects with new customers, operates, long-term technological alliances while ZTE created 52 new job positions. The were also established, primarily with two alliance with ZTE also enabled Euskaltel to benchmark sector companies. carry out technological advances in its network, including Long-Term Evolution (LTE), • In the IT market, the Group forged an IP Multimedia Subsystem (IMS) and Fibre To alliance with GFI, allowing Euskaltel to The Home (FTTH). As a result of these boost its competitiveness and to gain a developments, the company now offers permanent position at the forefront of customers new higher-quality products and information systems technology. has moved closer to its goal of achieving Moreover, the alliance helps Euskaltel to greater digitalisation. offer unique solutions based on better knowledge of the sector and on the use of In both cases, the exchange of knowledge with the most appropriate technologies. the Euskaltel team was key for generating • In the area of telecommunications advances in the other companies and growing technology, the Group created an alliance together, maximising the synergies between with ZTE, thereby endowing Euskaltel's the sector companies. The Group has also network with greater transmission capacity extended guarantees to safeguard the and enhanced security. The alliance sets working conditions of employees hired by the the stage for simpler maintenance and companies to which certain services more efficient network management, while previously rendered in-house were allowing the Group to implement and outsourced. Through these efforts, the Group adapt to the constantly-evolving has successfully safeguarded labour requirements of telecommunications guarantees in respect of employment and technologies. ZTE is a solid partner for working conditions, seniority and the Euskaltel in its transformation of the geographic location of employees' work network and of customer services. centres. 21 Diversity and equality Promoting equal opportunities and personal With the aim of energizing a corporate diversity in the workplace is a fundamental governance approach in which the gender principle for the Group. This priority is perspective is mainstreamed in all decisions, reflected in the diversity and equality plan, both internal and public-facing, organisational which forms part of the motivation and dynamics were carried out to contribute a alignment programme. During 2016, Euskaltel balanced gender presence in all contexts of carried out a new diagnostic process of the the company. This in-house commitment is current situation of women and men within naturally reflected in the external actions and the company, specifying objectives and social impact of all Euskaltel staff. In addition, measures in respect of five lines of action and drawing from Euskaltel's Code of Ethics and their related targets, activities and indicators: Conduct and R's Code of Conduct, efforts are in place to encourage the effective equality • Displaying values and culture between men and women in employment • People management areas (selection, promotion and hiring), • Use of work time and co-responsibility training and development, compensation, and • Awareness of non-violence toward awareness-raising actions. The current women Collective Labour Agreement is one of the • Impact on society clear examples of Group's focus on work/life balance and equal opportunities. Equal opportunities The Group is committed to the equality of its To fulfil these objectives, Euskaltel's Code of employees and to supporting the changes that Ethics and Conduct and R's Code of Conduct occur in their lives or the lives of their family set out the principles and standards to be members, standing by them in circumstances observed by Euskaltel Group staff and anyone outside the normal professional relationship. working in the name of the company. During 2016, no incidents of discrimination occurred Euskaltel manages its human resources in due in the Group, underscoring the success of respect of human rights, equal opportunities, these efforts. freedom of association and the right to collective bargaining. It rejects any form of In order to continue adapting and evolving in discrimination, striving within its area of our commitment to equality, the human influence to eliminate all forms of forced and resources scorecard looks at all indicators compulsory labour, especially child labour. from a gender perspective. 22 As part of its efforts to bring about the labour centre, for an annual investment of €262,000. market integration of persons with disabilities The centre, which provides employment for and in compliance with Law 13/1982 on the over 80% of people with disabilities in Galicia, integration of the disabled (Spanish LISMI), is a partner in our business, entrusted with the Group is committed to respecting the law caring for our customers. and, where applicable, to applying the Euskaltel's commitment to equal alternative measures foreseen by the law. To opportunities is also borne out through the that end, the Group hires special work centres Aflora plan and the Family plan. Under these to carry out certain tasks, creating direct and two plans, advice and support is provided to indirect employment for people with different employees having a potential disability, who abilities. also receive monthly financial aid for as long Specifically in 2016, Euskaltel contracted out as the disability persists. Thanks to the Aflora reception, mail room and telephoneand Family plans, we have been able to answering services to a special work centre, identify situations of disability, raising representing an investment of over €102,000 awareness and normalising the issue in the and ensuring the incorporation of persons affected areas. with disabilities into the Group's workforce. In addition, the Group conducts informational In turn, R supports the workforce insertion of campaigns and awareness-raising activities on people with disabilities by contracting out equal opportunities, such as those discussed telemarketing services to a special work below. Aflora plan for employees with functional €180/month per person disabilities Family plan Financial aid for employees with a €169/month per family member disabled family member 23 Development, young talent and succession Professional development Companies and their environments are and e-learning videos for immediate becoming increasingly complex. Professional application in the job post, as well as other development is one of the key ways the Group periodic communications and training prepares to face the challenges of the future. activities. To that end, we have made training plans The largest amount of training hours were available to employees and we invest in dedicated to language training, followed by training activities that support their technical training on new equipment and professional development, fostering software and, in a similar proportion, training excellence in their activities so they can in management skills and specific noncontribute further value to the company. technological training for each management In 2016, 41,248 hours of training were offered area. to over 95% of employees, through workshops Training hours: 41,248 95% of the workforce underwent training 5.05 350 out of 6: average score given to training at Euskaltel training Technical training aimed at the activities launch of new Customer service, products and with transversal services training in customer User experience Network management for the online operations Sales skills channel Transversal training 01/ Mindfulness training, led by the Prevention Service 02/ Creative skills training, led by the Marketing Department 03/ Language training: 4,829 hours in Euskera and English 24 Average 2015 training 2016 training training hours TRAINING FIGURES Change hours hours per person 2016 Personnel under Women 15,623 15,775 +1.0% 83.91 the Collective Labour Men 12,570 15,015 +19.5% 82.50 Agreement Women 1,488 1,616 +8.6% 47.53 Managers Men 4,181 5,079 +21.5% 76.95 Women 568 748 +31.7% 83.11 Executives Men 3,044 3,015 -1.0% 62.81 Young talent and succession At the Euskaltel Group, we look for the best several educational cooperation agreements professionals eager to join our team. We are with universities in the Basque Country, working on managing the generational Galicia and Asturias, as well as with a number handover, as a key aspect of the transfer of of vocational training centres. During 2016, 36 knowledge and talent management acquired interns worked with the Group, primarily throughout the years. telecommunications engineering students and students from web and multi-platform design We help young adults in our local higher learning schools. communities build skills through shared projects, providing them with education and In addition, students often visit the company workplace experiences through internships as part of our ongoing contact with and training under agreements with universities and other educational institutions. universities. The Group has entered into The R Sementes internship programme 10+ This programme bears out the Group's agreements with commitment to young talent, through a number of internship offerings and practical educational work experience. The programme is institutions organised in collaboration with different universities in Galicia and Asturias. R also has a close relationship with the organisers of job fairs at these universities and the main city councils in order to attract the best talent to the Group. 25 Health and well-being We are proud of our corporate culture and The persons programme also features the our values, focused on sustainability, and our work/life balance initiative, which comprises policy of supporting one of our most new measures to ensure greater flexibility in important assets: our people. the workplace. The Euskaltel Group understands that caring These measures are focused on listening to for its professionals and providing employee employees and finding solutions to their benefits offers these professionals the individual requirements, in respect of changes additional advantages that help improve their in timetables due to specific needs, working day-to-day life and deepen their commitment from home during illness of a direct family to the company. member, or temporary transfer to the work In 2016, the Euskaltel Group took its first steps centre closest to home in the summer toward the healthy company model, as part of months, among others. its personnel-focused activities, to shore up The Group also has a benefits package that the confidence of people in the company, goes above and beyond customary employee enhance their individual performance and benefits. improve cooperation across the board. One of the tools implemented to improve the wellWe aim to help our employees in being of employees was the mindfulness workshops offered to all staff. the areas of concern to them, during the most important events in their lives. 01 Amount contributed for social security benefits for Social security situations of temporary disability for any reason, at a contributions cost of €138,236 per year 02 Group employees have accident, life and health Insurance* insurance at competitive market prices The flexible compensation plan allows Flexible 03 employees to make their pay check go further, compensation by contracting or purchasing certain pre-tax plan services. With respect to psychological and social risks, health, with actions such as Fruit Week and the analysis conducted in 2016 concludes that intranet news on the nutritional benefits of psycho-social risk at Euskaltel is not certain foods. These efforts were reinforced significant . through talks on health issues, such as In this line, the Healthy R programme has nutrition and skincare, attitudes during health been developed in Galicia, to raise awareness and illness, antioxidants, etc. about and promote mental and physical * Life insurance is exclusively offered to R employees. 26 Occupational health and safety One of our strategic commitments is the risks and fostering a stable and safe health and safety of all employees, as set out workplace. in Euskaltel's Code of Ethics and Conduct and Our health and safety culture is shored up by R's Code of Conduct. preventative training designed for each work To that end, the Group has developed an post, offered as from the day employees first occupational health and safety management join the Group. system, certified under the international In addition, as part of the annual occupational standard OHSAS 18001. This system health and safety programme, all Group encompasses all activities carried out at our centres are regularly inspected to ensure that centres and in all phases of the business. The working conditions are healthy and safe. objective is to conduct all activities in line with the occupational health and safety criteria established, thereby avoiding or mitigating Severity index (1): 0 Thanks to the preventative measures Frequency index (2): 0 implemented, there have been no accidents in 2016 leading to time off work, and frequency and Absenteeism (3) 1,47 severity indices remained 2016 2,49 2015 0,67 1,87 at zero. 2014 0.87 2,35 0 1 2 3 R Euskaltel (1) Days lost per 1,000 hours worked (2) Accidents leading to time off work, per 1 million hours worked (3) Absenteeism is calculated using the percentage of hours lost exclusively for common illnesses, out of total hours worked. Follow-up on 2016 commitments Work planned for 2017 Move from a prevention focus to a healthy company focus, by Preparation of a diversity plan that includes an equality plan  defining the Group-wide 2017-2019 Healthy Company Master Plan Monitor the scope of the new ISO 45001 standard, which replaces Specific measures within the healthy company project  OHSAS 18001 Move forward in work/life balance Define a succession and generational transition plan measures, the remote working plan, and extension of flexibility measures  Conduct a workplace climate survey to ascertain employees' expectations Workplace climate survey  Roll out the 2019 TalenTU programme: development of the career plan and the employer branding project 27 Customers We aim to know the needs and expectations of our customers, in order to offer them the best solutions, enhance their satisfaction and deepen our ties with them, while also fostering responsible consumption. At the Euskaltel Group, we are committed enriches the relationship as a whole. By to constantly improving our services, with a doing so, we foster an emotional tie and view to enhancing customer satisfaction can then understand their needs and and fostering a relationship of trust. concerns, generating a sustainable advantage over our competitors. Euskaltel and R are fibre optic leaders in the Basque Country and Galicia, with Accordingly, we uphold the importance of stable, long-standing relationships with transparency in all the information we customers. issue, thereby responding to the day-today concerns of our customers such as In addition to the variety of services information security and digital health and provided and the high service quality, we safety. consider that truly being there for our customers deepens their loyalty and SERVICE QUALITY: PROMPT CUSTOMER SERVICE At the Euskaltel Group, service quality We respond promptly to any is one of our top priorities. We offer a reports of outages, requests large, safe and efficient network for for information or claims and our customers to use across all their complaints. devices. #1 in incident resolution time* TRANSPARENCY DIGITAL HEALTH AND SAFETY We foster transparency in our We promote programmes and customer relationships, with special policies so that our customers can A leading group emphasis on day-to-day dealings and information on rate and bills. use all their devices as needed and with the utmost security. 28 *Euskaltel’s scope The Euskaltel Group offers its services to a The Euskaltel Group has all central network market of 5 million people, serving over elements needed to offer its services and 715,000 residential customers and to develop mobile-related proprietary companies. products. It is the largest virtual mobile operator in Spain in terms of number of Euskaltel is the leading customers. telecommunications operator in the Basque Country, with over 350,000 km of In addition to its own infrastructures, next-generation fibre, offering internet, Euskaltel has numerous points of mobile and landline telephone, broadband connection with other national and and digital television services. In Galicia, R international operators, thereby ensuring is the preferred operator among Galician that its customers can communicate from households and businesses, thanks to the anywhere, to anywhere and at any time. 291,000 km of fibre optic cable in place. Our customers The Euskaltel Group's strategy focuses on serving its over 715,000 customers, taking Customer satisfaction into account their communications needs The Euskaltel Group aims to create and seeking to enhance their satisfaction loyalty among its customers by and loyalty. providing them with highlyCustomer categories primarily include the satisfactory experiences when using residential market, in which customer any Group brand. services are configured according to their In 2016, Euskaltel conducted 20,305 individual needs, and the corporate post-call customer satisfaction market, providing the small home/small surveys. On average, customers rated office (SOHO) segment with bundles and the service received as 3.99, on a scale comprehensive solutions, including cloudof 0 to 5. based communications and security. At R, 94% of customers are satisfied In 2016, the strategy of combining mobile with the customer service received, telephone service and the OSOA TV service and 81% would recommend R to a boosted the number of customers with friend. threeand four-product bundles to 66%. In addition, the number of mobile telephone Based on these satisfaction indicators, customers grew 10.4% compared to the the Euskaltel Group evaluates its previous year. performance as a provider and creates improvements in order to foster The number of corporate clients also grew customers’ pride in the local brand. to 48,809 in 2016, with 65.2% of new adds contracting bundles of more than three products. 29 Customer experience During 2016, the Euskaltel Group drew strongly from its knowledge of our customers, to generate value propositions adapted to their needs. The Group launched the Customer Experience initiative, aimed at deepening customers' emotional ties with the brand through their interactions, taking into account their preferences, identifying the reasons for any dissatisfaction and launching actions to remedy any discontent. To deepen our knowledge of customers, in 2016 we conducted 13 focus groups, 22 surveys on expectations and 2,164 additional surveys in different types of households. The findings of these studies served to improve the launch of new products and services, better our customer service and develop training employee courses adapted to these needs. We use our proprietary fibre Our services optic network, one of the most Euskaltel's products and services are carefully designed and tested to ensure advanced in Europe. safe and efficient use by customers. Thanks to the quality of the processes carried out reactive actions to improve the value in the Basque Country and Galicia, users proposition behind the Group's services. enjoy a complete and satisfactory These actions gave us a wealth of experience adapted to their needs. information about customers, helping us to truly ascertain their preferences and needs. Our proprietary fibre optic Euskaltel believes that quality management network is the largest in our market. We provide 4G with proprietary As part of its objective to reduce costs for licenses in the Basque Country customers, the Euskaltel Group continued and Galicia. to launch new services as part of its Online First strategy. The aim is to increase must be an essential component of any customers' digital interactions and provide management system. In 2016, the annual a lower and more flexible cost structure. Of quality plan was drawn up and carried out, customers, 65% have created a web user covering all actions needed to maintain the account to access their main services and quality management system. This included 60,000 use the Euskaltel app. a review of the quality control policy, a The bundling strategy with maximum push for efficiency and ongoing added value of products and services has improvement in service quality, in order to spurred 66% of customers to control and improve any organisational simultaneously contract more than three elements influencing customer satisfaction products. In addition, 77% of landline and the attainment of the company’s customers have added at least one mobile desired results. This system has been line to their contracts, leading to a record certified under quality management number of adds by customers. standard ISO 9001:2008 since 1999. This During 2016, we deepened our knowledge certificate was renewed in 2016. of customers through proactive and 1.89 74,000 66% 22,000 million products new mobile lines customers with more than new TV lines and a 57.6% contracted by residential three products contracted penetration in fibre services customers 30 Main technological advances in 2016 TV platform • Launch of the integration project for the new 4K converter box for cable TV and internet protocol television (IPTV) services. The objective is to facilitate access to quality audiovisual content from any device, at any place and at any time. Mobile network • Migration of customers from Galicia-based mobile services to the Orange Host, using Euskaltel and R's shared over-the-air (OTA) platform, which offers R's customers Long-Term Evolution (LTE) services. • More than 40 LTE base stations have been set up, thereby gradually increasing traffic over this network. Landline voice network • The first landline voice nodes have been migrated to the new network using IP Multimedia Subsystem (IMS) architecture. Docsis network • In 2016, capacity was increased in the Basque Country and in Galicia, to handle the higher speeds of cable products and the rise in customer numbers. Joint expansion plans for 2017 have been designed for both regions. Internet Protocol/Multiprotocol Label Switching (IP/MPLS) core network • A new network plan was defined, foreseeing the complete integration of the two regions and emphasising the presence in Madrid. Ethernet broadband access service (NEBA)/Fibre To The Home (FTTH) accesses • Introduction of services for customers WiFi network • Extension of WiFi service coverage through the progressive roll-out of WiFi hot spots and specific professional access points (AP). • New products were launched, such as WiFi Kalean (contracted by 72% of mobile users) as well as WiFi Cliente R, WiFi Turistas, WiFi Negocios, WiFi Eventos, WiFi Ayuntamientos, for R customers, tourists, businesses, events and city councils, respectively. Security platforms and services • Launch of the security service project for the Galicia network and standardisation of convergent solutions in Euskaltel and R. Data centre • Standardisation in Euskaltel and R and evolution of services toward appand web-based automation and self-management by customers. Landline network deployment • In industrial parks: o Basque Country: 8 industrial parks: As part of the 51K project, infrastructure was rolled out in eight industrial parks, seven of which are operational (with average coverage of 82%), providing broadband access to 889 companies. 28 industrial parks: The project, launched in September, brought broadband access to 310 companies. o Galicia: 81 industrial parks: The project, launched in July 2016, has brought the infrastructure to 17 industrial parks, allowing 331 companies to access our ultra-fast fibre optic network. • For households: The Group services broadband for 887,000 homes in the Basque Country and 820,000 homes in Galicia. Please see glossary on page 68 31 Person-to-person customer service Customer service The Euskaltel Group cements its customer specific telephone service platforms for relationships on personalised customer each customer segment, in line with their service and loyalty-building and stands needs (individuals, businesses, SMEs and apart from other sector companies for the large customers). For example, Euskaltel local service it offers. has a specific group entrusted with creating loyalty among corporate In order to strengthen this person-tocustomers, as well as a loyalty platform for person focus, the Euskaltel Group provides the business sector. With respect to the customers with a number of tools for large customer segment, a specific sales resolving their incidents and questions, manager is assigned to each account, in wherever, whenever and however they order to personally meet customer needs. need. In all cases, their requests are answered by a person in their region or Post-sales service is carried out centrally, area. All customer service tasks are carried analysing the incidents generated due to out by service providers in the Basque network failures, in order to take swift Country and Galicia, as are administrative action and minimise the impact on and installation services. To that end, the services. Group has created different customer In 2016, a total of 604 claims were received service platforms, including a telephone through consumer organisations (34 line, sales points and websites, as well as through the Basque Country Consumer other channels. In 2016, residential Arbitration Board, where they were customers selected the web option as their handled, and 570 from other consumer preferred communication channel, giving it organisations). a 9+ rating out of ten. The Group's Legal Services Department Customer requests are processed for reviews the text of any sales resolution as soon as they are received. In communications released to the public, to those cases where it is not possible to ensure that it is in line with consumer immediately resolve a request, further protection legislation and fair competition information is gathered and sent to the regulations, as well as with legislation corresponding department. governing the telecommunications sector. Both for requests and for customer service and outage reports, Euskaltel has created Claims in the Euskaltel Group #1 in incident resolution time* Source: Morgan Stanley report (peers: Telefónica, Vodafone and Orange) According to a report by Morgan Stanley, among other operators, Euskaltel responds quickest to resolve its customers' internet access service SSTIS: Secretary of State for Telecommunications and the incidents, with a claims level below that Information Society BCCI: Basque Country Consumer Institute (ICV) of its peers. * Euskaltel scope * Quality Service Levels Monitoring Report, 4Q 2016, Ministry of Energy, Tourism and the Digital Agenda 32 Incident resolution R offers a specialised maintenance line, continually improving services without the need for customers to call in. The company's policy is to recognise any outages, be transparent with customers, and attempt to resolve the situation as swiftly as possible. This policy was activated in December 2016, when an outage left mobile users in Galicia without service during several hours. The origin of the outage was identified and service was gradually restored. Customers were notified of the problem immediately and appraised of all developments. Digital inclusion Of the Euskaltel Group's main lines of Consequently, one of the Group's top goals action is to contribute to improving for the coming years is to establish technologies in safe and secure conditions. alliances with different non-profit To that end, the Group carries out several organisations, in order to foster digital initiatives to help customers with the inclusion, through easy-to-use tools that products and services that meet their add value to the life of people and their needs. The Group plans to greatly expand way of relating with others. on these efforts in the coming years. The Group has also undertaken initiatives In particular, Euskaltel's digital inclusion seeking to maximise the advantages of efforts comprise training and information technologies, to create new on matters regarding new technologies and communications and queries channels with helping customers resolve any queries they all customers, with special focus on the may have. Through different blogs and most vulnerable customer groups. For forums, the Group responds to the main example, in Galicia, R's call centre features questions about the internet and how to a video-call system for the deaf, so these make the best use of technology in customers can easily access information general. and services. The Euskaltel Group's efforts to include all In 2016, Euskaltel launched reduced-cost groups in the technological world and to rates in order to provide access to anyone facilitate their daily life through technology wishing to use internet on their mobile focus on eliminating the digital gap among device, thereby promoting the digital the most vulnerable people, such as the inclusion of certain at-risk groups. elderly and people with disabilities. We offer quality services to our customers and are leaders in landline accesses. 33 Digital health and safety Privacy and information security Since the Euskaltel Group first began its properly managed. Euskaltel's information activity, service security has been a security management system has been strategic priority in network design, due to certified since 2012 under ISO 27001:2014 the importance for customers of being able Information Security Management Systems to trust their personal and business (ISMS). communications through a solid, secure The following activities were carried out in provider. The Group ensures that the 2016: equipment it acquires and sells comply with all prevailing regulations. • Establishment of an information security risk management system in In the digital world, it is essential that accordance with ISO 27001:2014 customers trust that their data will be kept • Support in identifying and establishing private and that their information will be security measures to help mitigate treated as confidential. Consequently, the risks identified Euskaltel Group strives to protect and • Integration of information security safeguard the confidentiality of all management into all other Euskaltel customer, provider and company data, management systems designing protection tools for managing the risks that arise in an increasingly• Identification of and compliance with connected world. prevailing legislation in this field Information is one of the main assets of In addition, we comply with the Spanish any individual or company. As such, it must Data Protection Act and undergo an audit be protected and the related risks must be in this regard, every two years. Responsible use of technologies Through our products and services, the exclusive customer app, and are notified Euskaltel Group facilitates the day-to-day when they reach 50% and 80% of their tasks of its users. However, on occasions monthly usage limits. Both Euskaltel and R customers are not aware of the most offer a parental control service. responsible way to use their mobile In addition, the Group promotes initiatives telephones, personal data or the such as the Cyberia Enea blog, launched in information they share via the internet. November 2016 in collaboration with the To respond to this need, we have launched Etorkintza Foundation, on the proper use informational campaigns for both older of new technologies. As part of this and younger adults as well as teenagers, initiative, the Group works with a team of teaching them how to correctly use their experts specialised in psychology and devices. information and communication technologies, to respond to users' chief Customers can also consult their usage at concerns. any time, through either the website or the 34 Protection of minors: My first contract programme Children begin using mobile telephones at an increasingly early age. Accordingly to the latest studies, nearly 30% of children under 10 have a mobile device. In 2016, Euskaltel launched the My first contract programme, to help these users gain certain values for the responsible use of mobile phones. The programme consists of a personalised contract that can be downloaded from the Euskaltel website, setting out rules on the proper use of telephones and the type of information that can be shared. In addition, the website features tips on smartphone and apps use, as well as guidelines for parents regarding new technologies. Transparency Transparency of information is a key Customers can also log in to a special component of our customer relationships, website area to consult their usage, resolve in order to generate trust and loyalty. any questions, or change their rates plan. The Euskaltel Group informs customers of their rates and any modifications thereto Our invoices are transparent and through different tools, such as the website and contracts, providing users with clear, and we have fewer claims complete and easy-to-understand for invoice errors than any other information. These practices are audited operator. each year as part of the invoice quality audit foreseen under the Quality Order IET/1090/2014 issued by the Ministry of In addition, all products sold by the Energy, Tourism and the Digital Agenda, Euskaltel Group are certified and meet the regulating service quality conditions in the requirements set by different national and provision of electronic communications international bodies. Euskaltel complies services. The Group also applies with legal requirements regarding responsible advertising principles in its packaging labelling, in accordance with Law customer communications, to generate 11/1997. further trust in its services. The Euskaltel Group updates its documents on a monthly basis, to ensure that all rates conditions are clearly reflected. If contract conditions change, customer service operators notify users one week prior to the implementation of the new conditions. In addition, this information is included on customer invoices. 35 Natural capital The Group aims for excellence in all aspects of environmental management, raising and promoting environmental awareness among its employees and stakeholders. The Euskaltel Group is aware of its Plan, and a management system rolled out responsibility to sustainable development in its Basque Country centres, slated for and is firmly committed to promoting expansion to the Group as a whole, responsible attitudes as part of an ongoing pursuant to the 2017-2019 Environmental process to reduce the environmental Master Plan. impact of its products and services. In addition, the Group promotes the The Euskaltel Group has a comprehensive provision of innovative new products and management system policy (quality, services to its customers, to help reduce environment and occupational health and environmental impacts. safety), a 2014-2016 Environmental Master GREEN ORGANISATION GREEN PRODUCTS The Euskaltel Group places top We seek improvements in the priority on the integration and rollenvironmental dimension of out of policies to reduce the Euskaltel's products. environmental impact of our activities. 2017-2019 Environmental Master Plan GREEN COMMUNICATION FIGHT AGAINST CLIMATE CHANGE We strive for communication and We have shored up our commitment to dialogue with all stakeholders, our communities and the environment transparently disclosing our through our climate change policy. environmental performance. 36 Environmental strategy The Euskaltel Group believes that be implemented and carried out when controlling and minimising the impacts of managing environmental impacts, in line its products and services is a fundamental with the 2002-2020 Basque Country goal. Environmental Strategy for Sustainable Development and the Framework These efforts have been reflected in one of Environmental Programme of the the commitments underlying Euskaltel's Autonomous Community of the Basque comprehensive management system Country, promoted by the Basque policy, specifically the implementation of government. management systems based on sustainable development. This has been an active In addition, during 2016 the Group commitment in Euskaltel since 1999, and updated and approved the 2017-2019 the Group is currently working to extend it Environmental Master Pan, locking in its to all work centres in Galicia as well. commitment to sustainability and the comprehensive management of Euskaltel's 2014-2016 Environmental environmental risks at Group level. Master Plan, in force during 2016, sets out the strategy, programmes and initiatives to Excellence in environmental management As a result of its commitment to excellence Euskaltel's carbon footprint was registered in environmental management, in 2016 with the Ministry of Agriculture, Fishing, Euskaltel secure certification in the Basque Food and Environment. Country for its management system under UNE-EN ISO 14001:2015. Moreover, its 2015 environmental impact statement was verified by a recognised independent party, in accordance with EMAS III. CORPORATE ENVIRONMENTAL FOOTPRINT PROJECT As part of its collaboration with the Basque Ecodesign Center, Euskaltel has calculated its corporate environmental footprint. This process, a pioneering initiative in Europe, gives companies a measure of their environmental performance, based on several different criteria and from a full life-cycle perspective. This measure helps companies improve their environmental management and can implicitly lead to savings opportunities while boosting the response to information requests by investors, sales, comparative assessment and proactive responses to future legal requirements. 37 Green Product The Euskaltel Group calculates the The Group's comprehensive management environmental impact of its products and system sets the groundwork for minimising network and attempts to minimise these the impact of its activities on the impacts, right from the design stage. The environment in which it operates, and for Company is a member of the Basque improving its processes. This is reflected in Ecodesign Center, which aims to promote the roll-out of the 4G (LTE) network ideas and actions that boost the underway since 2015, on the basis of competitiveness of Basque Country criteria that ensure responsible network businesses and prevent environmental deployment, in strict compliance with impacts, as a benchmark player in electromagnetic field regulations, to the application of the European Union Action point that 100% of the company’s base Plan for the Circular Economy. In the stations have emissions levels below the context of this collaboration, in 2016 the statutory limits. Within this framework, the company continued applying the Group has also entered into site-sharing methodology established for calculating its agreements to minimise visual and energy carbon footprint and analysing the life impacts and to reduce waste generation. cycle of its products. Circular economy One component of the customer equipment placed on the market telecommunications sector is the design in 2016, 43% was refurbished, reducing and manufacture of electrical and future use of natural resources. electronic equipment (EEE), the technology for which is subject to constant innovation In 2016, the Group refurbished 43% and improvement. This means that the of customer equipment. innovation cycles for this equipment is increasingly shorter, accelerating obsolescence of equipment and, therefore, Euskaltel collaborates with the non-profit continually generating waste electrical and organisation Alboan in its Mobile phones electronic equipment (WEEE). for the Congo campaign, setting up used mobile phone drop-off points at its stores The Euskaltel Group aims to promote and offices, free of charge. The campaign measures that are in alignment with aims to inform, raise awareness and collect circular economy principles, reducing the used mobile telephones from Basque generation of WEEE by prioritising reuse Country customers, which are then sold over recycling. To that end, Euskaltel has and reused, thereby generating economic refurbished certain customer equipment resources to fund international (converter boxes, modems and routers) cooperation projects in the Democratic that exceed the requirements established. Republic of the Congo, through the Jesuit The remaining equipment is recycled Refugee Service. Further information at through an authorised WEEE handler. Of all www.tecnologialibredeconflicto.org 38 Fight against climate change The Euskaltel Group is committed to the fight against climate change, as one of the USE OF FUELS lines of action in the new 2016-2018 -15.4% Environmental Master Plan. Also, in line with the Basque Country Climate Change Strategy to 2050, the Group is involved in preparing and piloting a methodology for organisations to adapt to climate change, In accordance with Royal Decree 56/2016 coordinated by Ihobe, the Basque Country on energy efficiency, during 2016 the government's environmental management Group submitted to mandatory energy company. audits at its facilities. The results of the Euskaltel has established a series of audits, carried out by an independent third measures to reduce energy use, under its party, were reported to the relevant CO 2 emissions reduction plan. This energy efficiency authorities. During 2016, commitment has been extended by the Group approved its 2017 energy calculating the Group's carbon footprint efficiency plan. using the tool developed in the Stop CO 2 Since 2014 and as part of its membership Euskadi project, led by Ihobe, as well as by in the Basque Ecodesign Center, Euskaltel preparing the 2016 greenhouse gas has calculated its product/service carbon emissions report, quantifying both direct footprint, quantifying the environmental and indirect emissions (scopes 1 and 2). impact of its products and services and estimating the climate change potential of this impact. + 5.3% (1) SCOPE 3 326 t CO2 eq. -28.9% (1) +11.2 % (1) The Group calculated the SCOPE 2 footprint for its OSOA SCOPE 1 product in 2014, 9,480 t CO eq. 2 conducted a life cycle 916 t CO2 eq. analysis for the Euskaltel WiFi product in 2015, and in 2016 extended the calculation of the OSOA EUSKALTEL GROUP EMISSIONS IN product to include the effect of the new 4G network rolled out. This 4.36 kg. CO2 eq./product sold analysis entailed calculating GHG* INTENSITY OF EMISSIONS emissions during the (scopes 1 and 2) different phases of the complete life cycle. (1) Change vs. 2015 *GHG: greenhouse gas 39 Disclosing environmental performance The Euskaltel Group reports its the United Nations Global Compact, among environmental performance to all others. stakeholders, through an ongoing and The Group has also recently begun open dialogue based on transparency, participating in the Carbon Disclosure accuracy, commitment and disclosure of Project (CDP), which classified our activities. In addition to publishing its environmental performance as level C EMAS III Environmental Statement and its (https://www.cdp.net/en/reports/archive). Corporate Responsibility Report on the corporate website The environmental efforts taken by the www.euskaltel.com/conocenos/Responsab Group led the European Commission to ilidad_Social, the Group offers several short-list Euskaltel as finalist in the 2016presentations and promotes sustainability, 2017 European Environmental Awards environmental innovation and life cycle (management category). Moreover, the analyses through collaboration in and Basque Government has awarded the adherence to external forums and company the Silver Diploma for its initiatives, such as the Universidad de environmental management system Deusto, the Basque Ecodesign Center, and designed in accordance with the European EMAS regulation. Key environmental aspects and objectives Euskaltel evaluates each and every controlling them. Improvement targets are environmental aspect based on the also established. severity of the associated impact, In particular, for 2016, the most relevant identifying the most significant issues and environmental aspects identified were focusing efforts on minimising and electricity usage and greenhouse gas emissions. % 2015 Improvement 2016 2016 ENVIRONMENTAL TARGETS figure target goal figure improvement Compliant over goal Reduce per-product electricity 2% 22.49 < 22.04 21.90 2.60%  use (kWh/product) % of 2015 data Reduce GHG emissions (scopes 2% 5.434 < 5.325 3.800 30.10%  1 and 2) (kg of CO 2 /product) % of 2015 data Efficient management of resources and impacts With the roll-out of the excellence in plan, which reduced electricity and fuel use environmental management strategic line, compared to the previous year. the Group established operational controls The trends in and results of the Euskaltel and monitoring tasks in respect of the Group's environmental performance in usage, wastes and emissions deemed most terms of materials, energy and natural important due to the nature of the resources use, as well as the main wastes business, irrespective of whether or not generated, are set out below. they derive from significant environmental aspects. For example, Euskaltel implemented its 2016 energy efficiency 40 Use of materials and water: use of the most relevant materials for the organisation and the use of water Change vs. 2015 -21.1% -54.9% -34.1% -7.6% Paper (t) Cables (t) Equipment (t) Water (m ) 3 2016 141.11 79.50 200.90 6,039 2015 178.76 176.12 304.96 6,539 2014 215.31 144.05 199.96 6,174 Overall energy use: use of electricity and use of diesel, both internally (generators and company vehicles) and externally (employee vehicles): Change vs. 2015 +2.0% -12.9% -17.4% -2.6% Electricity Diesel Diesel (external) Energy intensity (MWh) (internal) (MWh)** (kWh/product)* (MWh)** 2016 57,133.77 563.41 641.96 24.46 2015 55,996.22 647.08 777.20 25.10 2014 54,732.53 1,001.66 818.03 27.00 Waste generation NON-HAZARDOUS WASTE HAZARDOUS WASTE Change vs. 2015 -22.4% -4.3% -1.8% -16.7% Paper and Lead-acid Fluorescents WEEE (t) cardboard (t) batteries (t) (t) 2016 28.93 59.74 39.33 0.60 2015 37.29 62.43 40.05 0.72 2014 25.59 40.72 37.69 0.46 * Energy intensity is calculated by dividing total energy use by the number of products placed on the market ** To obtain diesel use in MWh units, the conversion published in the GRI 3.1 guide was used (1 tonne diesel = 43.33 gigajoules) Achievements in 2016 Work planned for 2017-2019 Roll out the new 2017-2019 Environmental Master Plan, as Analysis of CO 2 emissions offset, in view of the CO 2 emissions reduction plan  part of the Group-wide CSR strategy, based on the Group's comprehensive management system policy Execution of the 2016 energy efficiency plan  Carry out actions to offset or reduce CO 2 emissions Continued life cycle analysis of Euskaltel products/services (OSOA, include the LTE network)  Carry out the 2017 energy efficiency plan Analysis and implementation of requirements for the new ISO 14001 standard in Euskaltel's comprehensive management system and certification by an  Continue analysing the life cycle of Euskaltel Group products/services independent expert Close of the 2014-2016 Environmental Master Plan, as Secure the Erronka Garbia sustainable event certificate for part of the company's CSR strategy  the General Shareholders' Meeting Extend certifications of the Euskaltel Group's comprehensive Calculation of Euskaltel's environmental impact  management system 41 Relationships We support activities that generate wealth within the social and economic fabric of the communities in which we operate, as the best way to build a company and to create loyalty among our customers. One of the Groups' strategic priorities is to relationships in the places in which we form alliances and relationships with its operate and create lasting ties between these communities. We are proud of our values and communities and the company. our corporate culture, which are both in line Our main lines of action in this area are with and rooted in the way of life and support for the local economy, growth concerns of those living in our areas of alongside our customers and the influence. communities, and the organisation of Through support for the economy and local different activities and initiatives that bear out growth, we aim to generate a strong our commitment to the education of young community network, serving as facilitators of people, the inclusion of the most vulnerable shared development. We strive to forge groups and support for popular culture. DRIVERS OF THE LOCAL ECONOMY SOCIAL COMMITMENT Our fiscal commitments contribute to At the Euskaltel Group, we aim to be a development of the communities in benchmark for our local communities. To which we operate. We also support the that end, we promote a number of social local economy by hiring local suppliers initiatives to support culture and sports, and service providers. €415 thereby making our business a true member of these communities. Through million in economic these events and our agreements with value distributed local institutions, we deepen our ties to these communities. 42 Drivers of the local economy Value creation The Euskaltel Group helps create social Through the salaries and taxes paid and and economic value in the places in the benefits generated, it spurs which it operates, for all stakeholders. improvements in the local economy and the development of the surrounding areas. ECONOMIC VALUE GENERATED €526 million in 2016 €335 million in 2015 €316 million in 2014 Net revenue €561,426 thousand in 2016 €334,375 thousand in 2015 €315,109 thousand in 2014 Other operating income €360 thousand in 2016 €431 thousand in 2015 €331 thousand in 2014 Finance income €37 thousand in 2016 €192 thousand in 2015 €179 thousand in 2014 ECONOMIC VALUE DISTRIBUTED €415 million in 2016 €448 million in 2015 €200 million in 2014 Purchases €26,245 thousand in 2016 €15,168 thousand in 2015 €18,898 thousand in 2014 Subcontracted work €103,520 thousand in 2016 €55,255 thousand in 2015 €52,737 thousand in 2014 Wages and salaries €38,365 thousand in 2016 €28,593 thousand in 2015 €30,318 thousand in 2014 Other operating expenses €122,149 thousand in 2016 €83,697 thousand in 2015 €59,570 thousand in 2014 Finance expense €47,891 thousand in 2016 €50,042 thousand in 2015 €22,219 thousand in 2014 Dividends €54,665 thousand in 2016 €207,003 thousand in 2015 €0 thousand in 2014 Income and other taxes €22,215 thousand in 2016 €7,975 thousand in 2015 €16,180 thousand in 2014 ECONOMIC VALUE RETAINED €147 million in 2016 €-113 million in 2015 €116 million in 2014 The periods shown are not comparable, given that 2014 information relates exclusively to Euskaltel, S.A., while in 2015 and 2016 the consolidation perimeter included R Cable y Telecomunicaciones Galicia, S.A. Given that R was acquired in November 2015, R contributed revenue of €20,966 thousand to the Group in that year. 2016 is the first year reflecting the full results of the acquisition. 43 Support for local suppliers Supplier management is key for the The largest volume relates to services Euskaltel Group, given that the engaged (network operation, customer production, distribution and guarantee service, engineering, etc.), accounting of service relies on 1,162 suppliers. Of for over 53.2% of the overall purchase these, 330 suppliers are considered volume. Technology purchases are also strategic, as 97% of all purchases are significant, at more than 29.2% of the made through these companies. total annual volume. Given that operating efficiency largely The high volume of services purchased depends on our suppliers, the Euskaltel means that purchases in the areas in Group maintains a close and transparent which the Group operates have a relationship with these companies, significant weight, at 48.3%. The involving them in the Group's strategy remaining purchases are made in other and culture. countries, due to the complexity of the sector. A long-term strategy based on mutual trust and long-standing agreements is In the last decade, Euskaltel's contracts applied throughout the entire value with Basque Country suppliers totalled chain. The Group also considers essential €2,500 million, while its R&D&I that all suppliers share in its corporate expenditure was over €140 million. social responsibility policy in respect of key aspects such as quality, occupational As a telecommunications service health and safety, equal rights and operator, the Euskaltel Group works to respect for the environment, among strengthen the capacities of suppliers others, and that they follow the Group's through information and courses that Code of Ethics and Conduct. The main boost their competitiveness, as well as suppliers have adhered to the UN Global through periodic evaluations to identify Compact. possible improvements along the value chain. In 2016, the Group worked with 624 local suppliers, 56.6% of which had a The management system features a purchasing volume of over €6,000. certification tool, under which 100% of During the year, no suppliers were suppliers (and their employees) contracted for over 5% of the total rendering services at the Group's purchase volume, except for ZTE, which facilities are duly accredited. is a strategic partner and which accounts for 13.8% of total procurement. Region % of total purchases 34.4% Basque increase in purchases 32.4% from Basque Country Country Galicia 15.9% suppliers in 2016 Other 51.7% The integration has allowed us to deepen the ties and synergies with suppliers, enhancing efficiency and optimising the Group's processes. 44 Responsible payment of taxes One of the unique values of the Euskaltel helping to build public funds through its Group is its ties with local communities, tax payments. as well as its priority focus on The support for social and economic development in the Basque Country and development is underpinned by the Galicia. Group's tax practices, which, as part of One of the Group's firmest commitments corporate responsibility policy, is strictly is to support the local economy by in compliance with applicable tax providing intrinsic wealth through the regulations. creation of jobs and, essentially, by €83.8 million paid in taxes in 2016 (including taxes paid and collected) 45 Social commitment Social initiatives In line with the Euskaltel Group's economy, and a number of encounters mission, contribution to the social and were held at vocational training centres. economic development of communities Euskaltel also works to promote the is one of the Group's key priorities. A Basque language, Euskera, through a number of community initiatives are number of in-house and external carried out in the Basque Country and initiatives to encourage use of the Galicia, the majority focused on language. promoting R&D. The Euskaltel Group supports For yet another year, the Group community projects, donating funds collaborated with several different collected as part of a number of community organisations to use employee-driven initiatives. In 2016, the technology to support the most Group donated €4,000 to the non-profit vulnerable groups. With the help of the organisation Salvamento Marítimo Euskaltel Konekta Foundation, the Group Humanitario and showcased its work participated in well-known initiatives both within and outside of Euskaltel. In such as the annual Telemaratoia teleaddition, the Group collaborates with marathon organised by EiTB, the Basque projects such as Gure Señeak, the Walk Country's public broadcast service, in On Project and Acción contra el Hambre, order to raise funds to research rare to support at-risk populations. diseases, as well as with the non-profit organisation Teléfono de la Esperanza. We have not doubt that we As part of the Group's social must make technology more commitment, Euskaltel seeks to educate human, by creating services and young people through agreements with solutions for and by people. different educational centres such as the Federación de Ikastolas, public schools, R promotes local culture through universities, vocational training centres, collaborations with institutions such as etc. In 2016, Orkestra/Basque Institute the Museo do Pobo Galego and supports of Competitiveness and Euskaltel coinitiatives to stop gender violence, sponsored a professorship in digital among others. 2016 Familia Euskadi award AFAE 85 10+ partnerships agreements Athletic Foundation honorary partner, 2016 with with community educational 2016 Getxo Sasoian award organisations institutions Elhuyar Saria recognition 46 Sponsorships In 2016, Euskaltel maintained its Lastly, the Group is committed to sponsorship policy, aimed at associating strengthening the local business fabric, the Euskaltel brand with the values we contributing to and collaborating with identify with and want to project to both small business owner associations society. As a technological company, in and industry trade groups. addition to collaborating in technology The Group supports third-party family and innovation events such as activities and organises family-friendly Telekogaua, digital encounters, etc., we events of its own. This includes provided a WiFi service to enhance initiatives to make sports a family affair, event-goers' experience at the Azoka de such as the Euskaltel Kirol Eguna in Durango fair and at the BBK Live, Kutxa Bilbao and in San Sebastián, which bring Kultur and Azkena Roc music festivals. together thousands of people and In terms of sporting events, Euskaltel has families to play sports together and a long-standing and well-known history celebrate functional diversity through of sponsoring the four Basque first adapted athletics. In terms of integration division football clubs: Alavés, Athletic, and equality, Euskaltel works with the Eibar and Real Sociedad. The agreement Athletic Foundation to include persons to be the top sponsor of Athletic with intellectual disabilities, through a Femenino, the women's football section mixed-team four-a-side football of Athletic Bilbao, highlights Euskaltel's tournament. commitment to equal opportunities for R sponsors events related with ICT all. entrepreneurship in Galicia, such as Moreover, the Group plays a key role in Laconnetwork and Sementes Monforte enriching the region through support for to support local enterprise. The company cultural activities. This includes the also promotes digital culture through agreement with Zinegoak (LGTB film seminars and courses on cyber security festival), the “Colosos Jurásicos” exhibit and use of social networks, as well as in collaboration with EHU-UPV, the events such as A noite galega das “Estereoskopiko” exhibit at the Museo telecomunicacións and computer Marítimo de Bilbao, and sponsorship for engineering events, bringing together the Guggenheim Foundation, the Artium over 1,100 university students. In Vigo, R Foundation and Kursaal Eszena. sponsors the Hackathon, an event to promote software development. In In addition, each year Euskaltel supports 2016, 84 individuals participated in this sporting and healthy living by sponsoring event. The company also supports golf, a number of road races, skateboard and basketball and other sporting events. surf competitions and football and basketball teams. 438,530 people served thanks to Group sponsorships 47 Institutional activity Euskaltel actively participates in a businesses for sustainability, and number of local and national Innobasque, and is the vice-chair of organisations, often times with a Orkestra/Basque Institute of leadership role. Euskaltel presides Izaite, Competitiveness and Eiken, the Basque the association of Basque Country Country Audiovisual Cluster. Euskaltel Konekta Foundation In tandem with the initiatives promoted The foundation's activities are aimed at under the Euskaltel and R brands, the customers, businesses, employees, Euskaltel Konekta Foundation carries out entrepreneurs, young people, society at a number of programmes aimed at large, and non-profits, in order to involve fostering and developing new projects local communities in our passion for surrounding information and technology and digital transformation. communications technologies. 48 Main initiatives promoted by the Euskaltel Konekta Foundation Euskal Encounter: During 2016, the Euskal Encounter, Gipuzkoa Encounter and Araba Encounter events were held under the Euskal Encounter (encounter.eus) banner. These heavily-attended meetings, which bring together IT professionals and enthusiasts, have been held in the Basque Country since 1994. During the multi-day event, participants exchange knowledge and enjoy all types of activities related with IT and new technologies, showcasing their individual projects or tackling the challenges posed by the event organisers. 2016 Euskal Encounter participation figures were as follows: 4,608 computers online, 40 Gbps internet connection, 35,000 m2 at the Bilbao Exhibition Centre and four full days of activities. The Encounter includes the OpenGune event, where IT sector companies unveil their products and conferences and expositions are held on current IT issues, along with workshops to bring technology within reach of anyone interested. GameGune: This convention, based on sports video games, was organised for Hearthstone game players at the Palacio Kursaal de Gipuzkoa. The event was broadcast in six languages and viewed by over 400,000 people. The best players in the world faced off in San Sebastián, with the top prize going to the current BlizzCon champion, Russia's Pavel Beltukov. Innova: Through the Innova conferences, participants debate salient aspects of innovation, entrepreneurship, leadership and motivation. The Euskaltel Konekta Foundation's sponsorship provides visibility, through speeches by Euskaltel executives, for the key role Euskaltel plays in the Basque digital society. Bime: Bime Hackday brings together individuals interested in music and the development of new technologies. Through workshops, participants learn about the latest trends in web development, mobile apps, video games and new devices. Women in Progress: In 2016, the Euskaltel Konekta Foundation participated in the Women and Technology event in order to raise awareness about the gender gap in the technology sector. The event highlighted opportunities in the local market, while also showcasing the company's focus on equality. FIRST Lego League: FIRST Lego League (FLL) is an international competition to encourage science and technology careers, creative thinking and innovation among students aged 9– 16. The purpose of the competition is to educate through play, with the preparation of a scientific project, the design and programming of robots using LEGO MINDSTORMS technology and demonstration of the FLL values: team work, friendly competition, innovation, inclusion, etc. The competition takes the form of a global challenge, addressing topics that affect all humanity. KBi: The Euskaltel Konekta Foundation sponsors KBi Digital Bilbao Bizkais, a product of an agreement between the Bilbao City Council and the Bizkaia Regional Government. The purpose of this digital project incubator is to promote, within the digital economy sector, enterprising projects of both start-ups and established companies. The centre is a benchmark for innovation and development of digital initiatives. -49Global Innovation Day: Global Innovation Day, organised by Innobasque, is a large-scale innovation event in the Basque Country. The celebration brings together leaders in innovation, to network and share experiences. At this open, dynamic and participatory event, participants can gain specialised knowledge, make new connections and seize opportunities. The support of the Euskaltel Konekta Foundation reflects the importance the Group places on innovation and digital transformation. Music festivals: The Euskaltel Konekta Foundation proudly sponsors the three most important music festivals in the Basque Country, organised by Last Tour. BBK Live, a pop and rock festival held each July in Bilbao, is one of the largest festivals in the country. Kutxa Kultur is a new event hosted in San Sebastián, while Azkena Rock features underground rock bands along with wellknown headliners. -50Intellectual capital As a telecommunications operator, the developing new business areas, particularly Euskaltel Group aims to promote digital in the Internet of Things (IoT) and Artificial development in the business arena and in Intelligence (AI) fields. To that end, new the lives of individuals. organisational units were created and a new general innovation plan was rolled out At the same time, the Group supports at the Euskaltel Group. sustainable innovation, applying the new technologies that enable social and Innovation projects for network environmental factors to be taken into improvements focus on improving the account when designing and implementing performance of the radio access network, the Group's products and services. both WiFi and 4G. We have also rolled out improvements in access, launching the first A company is innovative if its units sold on FTTH networks. In terms of employees are innovative. processes, new systems are being Innovation comes from the people developed, based chiefly on automation, increased self-service by customers and forming part of our team. enhanced user experience. Product innovation projects are also underway, None of this would be possible without the focused on designing new audiovisual Euskaltel Group's well-prepared and avantproducts, with the integration of a new 4K garde team that keeps abreast of the new converter box and an apps store for advances and improvements in the digital television. Lastly, in 2016, the Euskaltel world. Group worked intensely on the Internet of In 2016, the Group's innovation activity Things, introducing new innovative services focused on improving operational for households. excellence, innovating in products, and SUSTAINABLE INNOVATION DIGITAL TRANSFORMATION 82,000 We promote research to provide our We walk our users step-bycustomers with devices and services step through all new ways of that meet their needs, in line with the using devices and interacting latest market trends. new products with others. -513ollosR and Euskaltel Life This new service allows users to turn on lights or heating using their mobile phone, and even receive notifications if the system detects movement in the home during unusual times. Users can easily monitor the energy use in their homes or businesses, thereby promoting energy efficiency and helping to save energy costs. The digital interconnection of daily life through internet is a technological revolution that is here to stay. The Euskaltel Group therefore develops new tools to help users control and manage their daily routines, via their mobile telephones, tablets or other devices. PREST'16 Euskaltel, organiser of the PREST'16 event in San Sebastián, in its fifth year, highlighted the need for digital transformation in companies, as an inescapable part of growth. Alberto García Erauzkin, chairman of the Euskaltel Group, encouraged all attendees to approach digital transformation as a tremendous opportunity to move toward our business goals and to find new paths to growth; in short, to do things better . The PREST event, aimed at small and medium-sized enterprises, provides a meeting place around emerging digital management ideas. A total of 150 business owners met at San Sebastián's landmark Tabakalera building to learn about the latest technological advances in digital transformation. In 2016, the event featured special guest Enrique Dans, professor of Innovation at IE Business School, who spoke about the new challenges digital transformation poses to companies and provided a number of guidelines for overcoming these challenges. -52Other disclosures About this report Scope and profile This is the first year that Euskaltel and R have Responsibility Report follows the principles issued a corporate responsibility report as the laid out under that initiative. Euskaltel Group, to provide transparent, This report focuses on those aspects identified reliable and balanced information on the as relevant in the materiality analysis economic, social and environmental aspects performed. The preparation and results of this identified as most relevant. analysis are disclosed below. The material The Euskaltel Group prepared this report in aspects identified in the analysis include accordance with the Global Reporting certain additional issues relating to the Initiative (GRI) guide, an international Euskaltel Group's business that, while not standard for preparing sustainability reports. specifically foreseen by the GRI, are relevant In preparing this report, the Group followed for the sustainable management of the Group. the principles and content defined in the GRI's Information disclosed in this report sets the G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines. In baseline for assessing future performance of order to comply with the GRI guidelines, the the Euskaltel Group. The Group is currently company carried out a materiality analysis to working to extend and integrate the scope of focus its reporting on those social, the reporting system to include all indicators environmental and economic issues that are in coming years. The content of this report most relevant for its business and that should be read in conjunction with other influence the decisions of its stakeholders. The information disclosed on the Euskaltel Group Group opted for the comprehensive inwebsite, such as the EMAS Environmental accordance option, presenting an index of all Statement, the Annual Corporate Governance GRI indicators at the end of this report. Given Report, and the annual financial statements that Euskaltel has adhered to the United and management report. Nations Global Compact, this Corporate 53 Stakeholder engagement Materiality analysis The Euskaltel Group performed its materiality among stakeholders, such as workplace analysis following the GRI G4 standards, which climate surveys, community surveys, and propose the following three steps: customer experience questionnaires. • Identification: identify material aspects • Validation: determine the final content. The and their boundaries, based on their impacts list of material aspects, along with their on the organisation’s activities, products, boundaries and prioritisation, was validated by services, and relationships, both within and the Group's senior management. outside the organisation. The following sources were analysed, in order of relevance: the The outcome of these first three steps was a company's strategic lines, legislation, GRI G4 list of material aspects and their boundaries, reporting standards, issues considered by peer related to sustainability of the business. This companies, Global Compact principles, global list helped the Group prepare the specific basic CSR trends, the media and analysts. content related with the different areas of • Prioritisation: prioritise the content of the action, to be included and addressed in the report by ranking the material aspects and report, thereby responding to stakeholder issues identified, through a participatory expectations. process involving the Group's management The list of the material aspects identified areas, which provide feedback obtained from during the analysis is provided below. different studies and surveys conducted 54 Channels for dialogue The Euskaltel Group bases its business model Communication with all stakeholders, on stakeholder relations and adapts to their particularly with employees, was essential concerns and needs. The Group places top during the integration process. To that priority on understanding their expectations end, the Group prepared internal and factoring them into the Group's strategic communication plans to reduce any plans. uncertainty, to align employees with the mission and vision of the company and to One of Euskaltel's strengths is the local-level keep employees abreast of all creation of value in the Basque Country and developments. Galicia. This local presence begins with an ongoing, fluid and two-way dialogue with all Euskaltel believes that the open door stakeholders, through different channels such policy espoused by its executive team, as surveys, meetings, social networks and which bears ultimate responsibility for specific internet portals. The Group can people management within the therefore ascertain the main concerns of organisation, is the best way of stakeholders and set out specific actions to channelling the suggestions employees respond to their needs and expectations. may have regarding the company's past, current and future performance. Moreover, the Group's CSR policy sets out the commitments and general guidelines for each segment, with the overarching goal of bringing the Euskaltel closer to those people involved with the company in any way. Likewise, the Corporate Responsibility Master Plan is based on the expectations identified when consulting stakeholders through different surveys and studies. The Euskaltel Group's stakeholders were identified through several different analyses of the company's relationships with its surrounding area, taking into account trends in the telecommunications sector, workplace climate surveys and studies on consumer behaviour and employee satisfaction. These findings were verified within the different Group areas. *Reflected in the report 55 External assurance report 56 GRI tables Euskaltel Group Corporate Responsibility Report G4 Description Notes/direct reference Scope rev GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURES Strategy and analysis Provide a statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organisation about G4-1 the relevance of sustainability to the (3, 4) Letter from the Chairman and the CEO Group organisation and the organisation’s strategy for addressing sustainability Provide a description of key impacts, risks, G4-2 (5, 12-18) The Euskaltel Group at a glance; Organisational and cultural capital Group and opportunities Organisational profile G4-3 Report the name of the organisation Euskaltel, S.A. Group Report the primary brands, products, and G4-4 (5,6) The Euskaltel Group at a glance Group services Report the location of the organisation’s G4-5 (70) Back cover Group headquarters Report the number of countries where the G4-6 (5) The Euskaltel Group at a glance Group organisation operates Report the nature of ownership and legal G4-7 Euskaltel, S.A. Group form Report the markets served (including G4-8 (5) The Euskaltel Group at a glance Group geographic breakdown) Report the scale of the organisation, G4-9 (5) The Euskaltel Group at a glance Group including: G4-10 Report the scale of the organisation (20) Human capital Group Report the percentage of total employees G4-11 covered by collective bargaining (20) Human capital Group agreements (44) Relationships During 2016, all Euskaltel Group suppliers were located in the European Union, G4-12 Describe the organisation’s supply chain. Group except 27 companies, as follows: Canada (1), China (1), Colombia (1), Israel (3), Mexico (1), New Zealand (1), Sweden (1), Switzerland (2) and the United States (16). Report any significant changes during the (3) Letter from the Chairman and the CEO reporting period regarding the G4-13 (5-7) The Euskaltel Group at a glance Group organisation’s size, structure, ownership, or (12) Organisational and cultural capital its supply chain Report whether and how the precautionary (17) Organisational and cultural capital G4-14 approach or principle is addressed by the Group (37, 40) Natural capital organisation List externally developed economic, environmental and social charters, (4) Letter from the Chairman and the CEO G4-15 principles, or other initiatives to which the Group (46-50) Relationships organisation subscribes or which it endorses List memberships of associations and (4) Letter from the Chairman and the CEO national or international advocacy G4-16 (10) The Euskaltel Group at a glance Group organisations which the organisation (46-50) Relationships supports Identified material aspects and boundaries (53) Other disclosures List all entities included in the To facilitate the achievement of its business objectives, Euskaltel holds ownership G4-17 organisation’s consolidated financial Group interests in the following companies: Hamaika Telebista Hedatzeko Taldea, Cinfo statements or equivalent documents and Safelayer Secure Communications Explain the process for defining the report G4-18 (30, 53-55) Customers; Other disclosures Group content List all the material aspects identified in the G4-19 (54) Other disclosures Group process for defining report content For each material aspect, report the aspect G4-20 (54) Other disclosures Group boundary within the organisation For each material aspect, report the aspect G4-21 (54) Other disclosures Group boundary outside the organisation Report the effect of any restatements of G4-22 information provided in previous reports, (53) Other disclosures Group and the reasons for such restatements Report significant changes from previous G4-23 reporting periods in the scope and aspect (53) Other disclosures Group boundaries 57 Euskaltel Group Corporate Responsibility Report G4 Description Notes/direct reference Scope rev Stakeholder engagement Provide a list of stakeholder groups G4-24 (55) Other disclosures Group engaged by the organisation Report the basis for identification and G4-25 selection of stakeholders with whom to (55) Other disclosures Group engage Report the organisation’s approach to (30) Customers G4-26 stakeholder engagement, including Group (54-55) Other disclosures frequency of engagement Report key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder G4-27 engagement, and how the organisation has (54-55) Other disclosures Group responded to those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting Report profile G4-28 Reporting period for information provided 2016 Group G4-29 Date of most recent previous report (if any) 2015 Euskaltel G4-30 Reporting cycle (such as annual, biennial) Annual Group Provide the contact point for questions G4-31 Back cover Group regarding the report or its contents Report the in accordance option the G4-32 (56) External assurance report Group organisation has chosen Report the organisation’s policy and current G4-33 practice with regard to seeking external (56) External assurance report Group assurance for the report Governance Report the governance structure of the G4-34 (12-15) Organisational and cultural capital Group organisation, including committees Report the process for delegating authority G4-35 from the highest governance body to senior (12-15) Organisational and cultural capital Group executives and other employees Report whether the organisation has appointed an executive-level position or G4-36 (12-15) Organisational and cultural capital Group positions with responsibility for economic, environmental and social topics Report processes for consultation between (12, 13) Organisational and cultural capital G4-37 stakeholders and the highest governance Group (55) Other disclosures body Report the composition of the highest G4-38 (12-15) Organisational and cultural capital Group governance body Report whether the chair of the highest G4-39 (12-15) Organisational and cultural capital Group governance body is also an executive officer Report the nomination and selection G4-40 (12-15) Organisational and cultural capital Group processes for the highest governance body Report processes for the highest G4-41 governance body to ensure conflicts of Section D.6 of the Euskaltel Group's 2016 Annual Corporate Governance Report Group interest are avoided and managed Report the highest governance body’s and senior executives’ roles in the development, G4-42 approval, and updating of the organisation’s (12) Organisational and cultural capital Group purpose, value or mission statements, strategies, policies, and goals Report the measures taken to develop and enhance the highest governance body’s Each year, the Board of Directors is informed of the Group's economic, social and G4-43 Group collective knowledge of economic, environmental performance. In 2016, the Group's CSR policy was approved. environmental and social topics Report the processes for evaluation of the G4-44 (12-15) Organisational and cultural capital Group highest governance body’s performance Report the highest governance body’s role in the identification and management of economic, environmental and social G4-45 impacts, risks, and opportunities. Include Section E of the Euskaltel Group's 2016 Annual Corporate Governance Report Group the highest governance body’s role in the implementation of due diligence processes and in stakeholder consultation Report the highest governance body’s role in reviewing the effectiveness of the G4-46 organisation’s risk management processes Section E of the Euskaltel Group's 2016 Annual Corporate Governance Report Group for economic, environmental and social topics Report the frequency of the highest G4-47 governance body’s review of economic, (12-15) Organisational and cultural capital Group environmental and social impacts, risks, and 58 Euskaltel Group Corporate Responsibility Report G4 Description Notes/direct reference Scope rev opportunities Report the highest committee or position The Board of Directors is entrusted with reviewing and approving this 2016 G4-48 that formally reviews and approves the Group Corporate Responsibility Report, after third-party assurance. organisation’s sustainability report Report the processes for communicating The CEO is entrusted with informing the Board of Directors of all aspects regarding G4-49 critical concerns to the highest governance Group the company's performance. body In general, during 2016 the Board was informed of issues related with the preparation of the annual financial statements and the proposed distribution of profits, the periodic public information disclosed, budgets, objectives, authorised Report the nature and total number of representation, remuneration of the Board of Directors and senior management, G4-50 critical concerns that were communicated approval of the different annual reports, the call to the General Shareholders' Group to the highest governance body Meeting, preparation of prosed resolutions and the corresponding directors' reports thereon, the update of corporate policies, the company's IPO and the acquisition of R Cable y Telecomunicaciones Galicia, S.A., and the new 2016-2018 CSR plan, among other matters. Report the remuneration policies for the highest governance body and senior executives and how performance criteria in G4-51 the remuneration policy relate to the Section A.1 of Euskaltel, S.A.'s 2016 Annual Report on the Remuneration of Directors Group highest governance body’s and senior executives’ economic, environmental and social objectives Report the process for determining remuneration. Report whether G4-52 remuneration consultants are involved in Section A.2 of Euskaltel, S.A.'s 2016 Annual Report on the Remuneration of Directors Group determining remuneration Report how stakeholders’ views are sought G4-53 and taken into account regarding (15) Organisational and cultural capital Group remuneration Report the ratio of the annual total G4-54 The ratio between this compensation is 2.11 to 1 at Euskaltel and 1.70 to 1 at R. Group compensation Report the ratio of percentage increase in The median percentage increase in annual total compensation was 2.33% (Euskaltel) G4-55 annual total compensation for the and 2.13% (R), in compliance with the Collective Labour Agreement. Group organisation Ethics and Integrity Describe the organisation’s values, G4-56 principles, standards and norms of (16) Organisational and cultural capital Group behaviour Report the internal and external G4-57 mechanisms for seeking advice on ethical (16) Organisational and cultural capital Group and lawful behaviour Report the internal and external The Code of Ethics and Conducts, which sets out the organisation's ethical guidelines mechanisms for reporting concerns about for the conduct employees should avoid (anti-corruption chapter), is posted on the unethical or unlawful behaviour, and intranet. A Code of Conduct is also in place at R. In addition, channels have been set G4-58 matters related to organisational integrity, up for grievances on matters that could potentially affect Euskaltel. These channels Group such as escalation through line include the email associated with content of the Corporate Responsibility Report management, whistleblowing mechanisms (memoriarc@euskaltel.com), the Euskaltel CSR email (rse@euskaltel.com), and all or hotlines the Group's social networks and other forums (Twitter, Facebook, Instagram, etc.). SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES ECONOMIC Economic performance G4Report the direct economic value generated (43) Relationships Group EC1 and distributed Due to the nature of its activities, Euskaltel has a very low environmental impact on its surroundings. This influences the scope of the environmental objectives it sets Report the financial implications and other and allows the Group to ensure that any potential risk for the company's activities G4risks and opportunities for the are being properly managed. As the primary measure of its climate change impact, Group EC2 organisation's activities due to climate Euskaltel calculates its annual carbon footprint and prepares greenhouse gas change and other sustainability issues emissions reports in accordance with the methodology established by Ihobe, the Basque Country government's environmental management company. Both direct and indirect emissions are quantified in these reports. (23, 26) Human capital G4Coverage of the organisation's defined Euskaltel pays a monthly Social Security contribution for all employees, based on the Group EC3 benefit plan obligations salary level, in support of the public welfare system. In addition, the company offers a private pre-tax contribution system for those employees wishing to make 59 Euskaltel Group Corporate Responsibility Report G4 Description Notes/direct reference Scope rev individual contributions. Moreover, all Euskaltel Group employees receive a series of benefits, either related with company products or services or in respect of occupational health and safety. During 2016, the Euskaltel Group received subsidies amounting to €248 thousand. G4Financial assistance received from 2016 2015 2014 Euskaltel -230,897.55 -367,192.54 -331,491.14 Group EC4 government R -17,068.69 Group -247,966.24 -367,192.54 -331,491.14 Ratios of standard entry level wage by G4The ratio between the entry level wage and the local minimum wage at the Group gender compared to local minimum wage at Group EC5 was 2.335 in 2016, 2.258 in 2015 and 2.175 in 2014. significant locations of operation The Management Committee comprises the CEO and the heads of the Decision Centres. These areas receive reports from the Function Departments, the majority of which relate to the local community. The Group's executive team comprises the Proportion of senior management hired G4chairman, the CEO, the heads of the Decision Centres and the heads of the Function from the local community at significant Group EC6 Departments. Euskaltel believes that the open door policy espoused by its locations of operation executive team, which bears ultimate responsibility for people management within the organisation, is the best way of channelling the suggestions employees may have regarding the Group's performance in the Basque Country and in Galicia. G4Development and impact of infrastructure (31) Customers Group EC7 investments and services supported Euskaltel bases its aspirations as a comprehensive telecommunications operator G4Significant indirect economic impacts, with a guaranteed future on the deployment of its own high-performance network Group EC8 including the extent of impacts and capillarity to provide a wide range of added-value services. G4Proportion of spending on local suppliers at (44) Relationships Group EC9 significant locations of operation ENVIRONMENTAL Materials G4Materials used by weight or volume (41) Natural capital Group EN1 Purchase of refurbished customer equipment vs. total equipment purchased: 0.82% (2016) G4Percentage of materials used that are Use of recycled paper vs. total paper used: 3.3% (2016) See trends in the G4-EN2 Group EN2 recycled input materials appendix (page 66). Sale of refurbished customer equipment vs. total equipment placed on the market (see G4-EN28) Energy G4(41) Natural capital Energy consumption within the organisation Group EN3 G4Energy consumption outside the (41) Natural capital Group EN4 organisation G4Energy intensity (41) Natural capital Group EN5 (39, 40, 41) Natural capital (Group) Euskaltel has defined an energy efficiency plan for 2016, setting out the measures for saving both electricity and fuel. This plan foresees the following actions: Energy efficiency audit, in order to identify energy use actions that could help the Group save energy and be more efficient in that regard Awareness-raising campaigns in respect of energy savings G4Rational use of lighting at central offices, with automatic shut-off features (at data Reduction of energy consumption Group EN6 processing centres) and other features (hallways and offices) Installation of more energy-efficient equipment at data processing centres (servers) and consolidation of existing servers Rational use of vehicles for work-related travel and travel between the different Euskaltel Group locations Use of videoconferences for meetings between different Group locations, avoiding long-distance travel The Group takes the energy requirements of customer equipment into account during the certification phase. In addition, the energy use, at customers' homes, of equipment sold is calculated. The change in these calculations between 2015 and 2016 is as follows (Euskaltel): G4Reductions in energy requirements of 3.9% increase in internet-accessing devices, due to increased performance (WiFi Group / EN7 products and services connections) and higher browsing speeds in new models Euskaltel 8.2% reduction in TV converter boxes, due to enhanced efficiency 21.3% rise in mobile handsets, due to the gradual increase in screen size and enhanced wireless technology features installed (2G, 3G, 4G, WiFi, GPS, Bluetooth and NFC) 60 Euskaltel Group Corporate Responsibility Report G4 Description Notes/direct reference Scope rev Water (41) Natural capital Water used by Euskaltel comes from the Consorcio de Aguas del Gran Bilbao water G4Total water withdrawal by source supply system, while water withdrawn by R comes from the Empresa Municipal de Group EN8 Aguas de la Coruña S.A., Aqualia and Viaqua networks, depending on the location of each work centre. G4Water sources significantly affected by During 2016, no water sources were significantly affected by withdrawal of water by Group EN9 withdrawal of water the Group. G4Percentage and total volume of water No water is recycled or reused by the Group. Group EN10 recycled and reused Biodiversity Operational sites owned, leased, managed G4in, or adjacent to, protected areas and EN11 areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas Description of significant impacts of activities, products, and services on G4The Euskaltel Group does not own any land in areas of high biodiversity value. biodiversity in protected areas and areas of EN12 During 2016, no impacts were recorded in respect of biodiversity in protected, high biodiversity value outside protected Group heritage or biosphere reserve areas. Consequently, no impacts occurred in areas areas serving as habitats to species at risk of extinction. G4Habitats protected or restored EN13 Total number of IUCN Red List species and G4national conservation list species with EN14 habitats in areas affected by operations, by level of extinction risk Emissions (39) Natural capital The emission sources considered in scope 1 are: use of fuel in G4generators and by company vehicles during work trips, plus emissions of fluorinated Direct greenhouse gas emissions (scope 1) Group EN15 greenhouse gases. See appendix (page 66). (39) Natural capital The emission source considered under scope 2 is the use of G4Energy indirect greenhouse gas emissions electricity. Group EN16 (scope 2) See appendix (page 66). (39) Natural capital The sources of emissions considered in scope 3 are: use of fuel G4Other indirect greenhouse gas emissions in transport means not owned by the Group but used for company purposes Group EN17 (scope 3) (employee vehicles, planes, trains, taxi, etc.). See appendix (page 66). (39) Natural capital Emissions (scopes 1 and 2) are divided by the sum of products G4Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions intensity sold. Group EN18 See appendix (page 66). G4Reduction of greenhouse gas (GHG) (39) Natural capital Group EN19 emissions Euskaltel does not produce, import or export ozone-depleting gases. Since 2012, G4Emissions of ozone-depleting substances Euskaltel has implemented a plan to replace R-22 gases, whereby whenever a leak Euskaltel EN20 (ODS) of this type of gas occurs, the equipment is either retired or recharged with other refrigerant gases that do not affect the ozone layer (R-434.A or R-424.A). G4NOx, SOx and other significant air emissions See appendix (page 66). Group EN21 Effluents and waste The Euskaltel Group does not discharge industrial waste water. Sanitary and sewage water is discharged to the Consorcio de Aguas del Gran Bilbao water treatment G4Total water discharge system, in the case of Euskaltel, and to the Empresa Municipal de Aguas de la Group EN22 Coruña S.A., Aqualia and Viaqua networks for R, depending on the location of each work centre. G4Total weight of waste by type (41) Natural capital Group EN23 G4Total number and volume of significant No significant spills were recorded in 2016. Group EN24 spills Weight of transported, imported, exported, All hazardous waste, including used lead batteries, are collected by authorised or treated waste deemed hazardous under G4waste management companies, primarily in the Basque Country and Galicia and, in the terms of the Basel Convention Annex I, Group EN25 certain cases, in other regions of Spain. No hazardous waste has been shipped II, III, and VIII, and percentage of internationally. transported waste shipped internationally Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of water bodies and G4During 2016, the Group did not discharge any water affecting any water sources or related habitats significantly affected by the Group EN26 ecosystems. organisation’s discharges of water and runoff 61 Euskaltel Group Corporate Responsibility Report G4 Description Notes/direct reference Scope rev Products and services Extent of impact mitigation of G4(38, 39) Natural capital environmental impacts of products and Group EN27 See G4-EN7 services Percentage of products sold and their G4(38) Natural capital packaging materials that are reclaimed by Group EN28 See appendix (page 66). category Compliance Monetary value of significant fines and total During 2016, no significant fines were received in this connection. G4number of non-monetary sanctions for nonGrievances received about environmental impacts are reported under indicator G4Group EN29 compliance with environmental laws and EN34. regulations Transport (39) Natural capital The Group has established the following measures to reduce fuel use: Significant environmental impacts of Prioritisation of use of company vehicles over employee vehicles for work-related G4transporting products and other goods and Group / travel, given that, in general, company vehicles use less fuel and issue less CO 2 EN30 materials for the organisation’s operations, Euskaltel (Euskaltel) and transporting members of the workforce Use of videoconferences for meetings, avoiding long-distance travel (Group) Prior analysis of the importance of attending an external event (Group) Overall G4Total environmental protection See appendix (page 66). Group EN31 expenditures and investments Supplier Environmental Assessment 100% of new suppliers are screened using environmental criteria, given that one of the issues regularly evaluated is whether or not suppliers have an environmental G4Percentage of new suppliers that were management system in place. During 2016, work was underway at Euskaltel to Euskaltel EN32 screened using environmental criteria expand the environmental aspects used in initially certifying suppliers and in their periodic evaluations. Significant actual and potential negative G4Based on the evaluations performed, Euskaltel has not identified any suppliers environmental impacts in the supply chain Euskaltel EN33 causing significant negative environmental impacts. and actions taken Environmental grievance mechanisms Number of grievances about environmental All grievances about environmental impacts received in 2016 were resolved and G4impacts filed, addressed, and resolved closed prior to year end. None of these grievances were considered significant. Group EN34 through formal grievance mechanisms See appendix (page 66). SOCIAL Labour practices and decent work Employment Total number and rates of new employee G4hires and employee turnover by age group, See appendix (page 67). Group LA1 gender and region Benefits provided to full-time employees G4that are not provided to temporary or part(26) Human capital Group LA2 time employees Figures for employees taking parental leave during the past two years are as follows: Men Women G4Return to work and retention rates after 2015 13 14 Group LA3 parental leave, by gender 2016 11 8 All these individuals returned to work at the end of their parental leave. Labour/Management relations Minimum notice periods regarding In general, operational changes are reported to the affected persons and the G4operational changes, including whether affected area prior to reflecting them on the official company organisational chart Euskaltel LA4 these are specified in collective agreements posted on intranet. No minimum notice period has been established. Occupational health and safety Percentage of total workforce represented The Euskaltel Group has created committees for these issues, representing 100% of in formal joint management–worker health G4employees. At Euskaltel, five occupational health and safety liaisons sit on this and safety committees that help monitor Group LA5 committee, while R's Occupational Health and Safety committee comprises four and advise on occupational health and worker representatives and three company representatives. safety programs Type of injury and rates of injury, G4occupational diseases, lost days, and (27) Human capital Group LA6 absenteeism, and total number of workSee appendix (page 67). related fatalities, by region and by gender 62 Euskaltel Group Corporate Responsibility Report G4 Description Notes/direct reference Scope rev G4Workers with high incidence or high risk of No professional activities or job positions within the Group have been identified as Group LA7 diseases related to their occupation having a high incidence or high risk of work-related disease. G4Health and safety topics covered in formal (26.27) Human capital Group LA8 agreements with trade unions Training and education Average hours of training per year per G4employee by gender, and by employee (24) Human capital Group LA9 category The Euskaltel Group fosters practical skills in terms of both technical and nonPrograms for skills management and technical abilities. At Euskaltel, each employee receives the training necessary for G4lifelong learning that support the continued him or her to correctly performance the assigned job. Training can be accessed Group LA10 employability of employees and assist them through the employee portal. No specific programmes are in place at R in this in managing career endings regard. Percentage of employees receiving regular The percentage of employees receiving performance reviews is as follows: G4performance and career development 2014 2015 2016 Group LA11 reviews, by gender and by employee Euskaltel 98.86% 98.83% 99.50% category R 95.54% 96.52% 95.00% Diversity and equal opportunity Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per employee G4category according to gender, age group, See appendix (page 67). Group LA12 minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity Equal remuneration for women and men In line with the Group's people management policy, salaries are determined on an Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of G4individual basis; that is, each person is compensated in line with the responsibility women to men by employee category, by Group LA13 assigned, their performance and their contribution of value to the company. No significant locations of operation differences are established in respect of gender, age or other such factors. Supplier assessment for labour practices G4Percentage of new suppliers that were Given that suppliers are evaluated in respect of key corporate risks, the Group does Group LA14 screened using labour practices criteria not deem it necessary to conduct a further analysis focused on labour practices. Significant actual and potential negative G4impacts for labour practices in the supply No such impacts have been detected. Group LA15 chain and actions taken Labour practices grievance mechanisms Number of grievances about labour G4During 2016, four proceedings were underway, two of which have been closed. The practices filed, addressed, and resolved Group LA16 three proceedings open prior to 2016 were closed. through formal grievance mechanisms Human rights Investment Total number and percentage of significant No significant investment agreements include human rights clauses or undergo G4investment agreements and contracts that human rights screening, except for in respect of regulatory compliance with safety Group HR1 include human rights clauses or that issues. underwent human rights screening During 2016, 96% of employees attended one of the awareness-raising seminars Total hours of employee training on human held in Euskaltel in respect of female empowerment, mindfulness or both. A total of rights policies or procedures concerning G4855.5 hours were logged in this regard, along with 18 hours of additional training, aspects of human rights that are relevant to Euskaltel HR2 focused on the Code of Ethics. Taking into account the 199 people who attended operations, including the percentage of sessions on the Code of Ethics in 2015, 64.4% of staff have received training in this employees trained regard. Non-discrimination G4Total number of incidents of discrimination No incidents of discrimination occurred in 2016. Group HR3 and corrective actions taken Freedom of association and collective bargaining Operations and suppliers identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association G4and collective bargaining may be violated or (20) Human capital Group HR4 at significant risk, and measures taken to support these rights Child labour Operations and suppliers identified as G4having significant risk for incidents of child Prevailing legislation guarantees this right. Article 6 of the Employment Statute Euskaltel HR5 labour, and measures taken to contribute to prohibits the employment of under-age children. the effective abolition of child labour Forced or compulsory labour 63 Euskaltel Group Corporate Responsibility Report G4 Description Notes/direct reference Scope rev Operations and suppliers identified as Prevailing legislation guarantees this right. Employment must be offered freely, and having significant risk for incidents of forced G4employees must be free to leave their employment whenever they choose. Article or compulsory labour, and measures to Euskaltel HR6 49 of the Employment Statute acknowledges the right of employees to leave their contribute to the elimination of all forms of employment voluntarily whenever they choose to do so. forced or compulsory labour Security practices Euskaltel Group security personnel do not have dealings with the general public. Percentage of security personnel trained in G4These employees are duly identified and have received the requisite training in the organisation’s human rights policies or Group HR7 respect of Euskaltel's internal procedures and rules, the systems and equipment procedures that are relevant to operations used, first aid, and data protection. Indigenous rights Total number of incidents of violations G4involving rights of indigenous peoples and In 2016, no groups of indigenous peoples were affected by the Group's activity. Group HR8 actions taken Assessment Total number and percentage of operations G4All Euskaltel Group centres are regularly inspected to ensure that occupational that have been subject to human rights Group HR9 health and safety conditions are optimal. reviews or impact assessments Supplier human rights assessment G4Percentage of new suppliers that were The Group does not deem it necessary to conduct a further analysis focused on Group HR10 screened using human rights criteria human rights criteria. Significant actual and potential negative G4The Group does not deem it necessary to conduct a further analysis focused on human rights impacts in the supply chain Group HR11 these aspects. and actions taken Human rights grievance mechanisms Number of grievances about human rights G4(16) Organisational and cultural capital impacts filed, addressed, and resolved Group HR12 No human rights-related grievances were filed in 2016. through formal grievance mechanisms Society Local communities Percentage of operations with implemented G4Euskaltel does not operate in locations other than the community in which it is local community engagement, impact Euskaltel SO1 located. Consequently, it does not deem it necessary to report on this indicator. assessments, and development programs Operations with significant actual or G4None of Euskaltel's operations centres have or could have negative impacts on local potential negative impacts on local Euskaltel SO2 communities. communities Anti-corruption Total number and percentage of operations G4assessed for risks related to corruption and No evaluations were carried out in 2016 in respect of corruption risks. Group SO3 the significant risks identified G4Communication and training on anti(17) Organisational and cultural capital Group SO4 corruption policies and procedures G4Confirmed incidents of corruption and During 2016, no incidents occurred that involved a severe breach of regulations or Group SO5 actions taken of the good governance practices established in the company. Public policy G4Total value of political contributions by Euskaltel does not make any donations to political parties or their candidates. Euskaltel SO6 country and recipient/beneficiary Anti-competitive behaviour Total number of legal actions for antiG4No official judgements or decisions were issued that affect the company in this competitive behaviour, anti-trust, and Euskaltel SO7 regard. monopoly practices and their outcomes Compliance Two fines have been levied, one for €50,000 in respect of notification of rates to Monetary value of significant fines and total G4customers and organisations, and a second fine for €240,000, regarding the setting number of non-monetary sanctions for nonGroup SO8 of rates in extra pay services. Claims received through consumer organisations are compliance with laws and regulations disclosed on page 32. Supplier assessment for impacts on society Percentage of new suppliers that were G4The Group does not deem it necessary to conduct a further analysis focused on this screened using criteria for impacts on Group SO9 aspect. society Significant actual and potential negative G4impacts on society in the supply chain and No significant impacts were detected in this regard. Group SO10 actions taken 64 Euskaltel Group Corporate Responsibility Report G4 Description Notes/direct reference Scope rev Grievance mechanisms for impacts on society Number of grievances about impacts on G4society filed, addressed, and resolved No grievances were received in 2016 in this regard. Group SO11 through formal grievance mechanisms Product responsibility Customer health and safety (30, 32-35) Customers The Euskaltel Group is responsible for making third-party equipment available to end users on the market, ensuring that both the equipment it acquires and the equipment it sells complies with prevailing legislation in respect of electromagnetic Percentage of significant product and fields. With respect to radiofrequency waves, the Euskaltel Group rigorously G4service categories for which health and complies with prevailing legislation in its roll-out of the LTE (4G) network, the Group PR1 safety impacts are assessed for radiation from which is measured and reported to the relevant bodies. Users can improvement contact the customer service telephone line for information on the Group's policy in this regard. In addition, although Euskaltel is not a manufacturer, all mobile handset models it sells are subject to a certification process. Suppliers are required to comply with European Union Directive 1999/5/EC (R&TTE Directive), which requires a specific absorption rate and performance of electromagnetic compatibility tests. Total number of incidents of noncompliance with regulations and voluntary G4codes concerning the health and safety No fines or sanctions were received in this respect. Group PR2 impacts of products and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes Products and service labelling (34.35) Customers (38) Natural capital Type of product and service information All products offered by the Euskaltel Group are certified and meet the requirements required by the organisation’s procedures set by different national and international bodies. The company complies with legal G4for product and service information and requirements regarding packaging labelling, in accordance with Law 11/1997 on Group PR3 labelling, and percentage of significant packaging and packaging waste. All labels state that the company complies with products and service categories subject to prevailing legislation and that it contributes to the future management of waste such information requirements generated by packaging. The company also cooperates with the integrated management system organisation Ecoembes for this type of waste. Total number of incidents of noncompliance with regulations and voluntary G4codes concerning product and service No fines or sanctions were received in this respect. Group PR4 information and labelling, by type of outcomes (29) Customers Results for Euskaltel are as follows: 2016 2015 2014 Surveys conducted 20,305 24,843 24,331 G4Results of surveys measuring customer Score out of 5 3.99 4.03 3.99 Group PR5 satisfaction Results for R are as follows: 2016 2015 2014 Customer service 94% 93% 94% Resolution 81% 81% 75% Recommendation 81% 83% 85% Marketing communications G4Euskaltel does not sell any banned products or any products that have been called Sale of banned or disputed products Euskaltel PR6 into question by its stakeholders. Total number of incidents of noncompliance with regulations and voluntary G4codes concerning marketing The Euskaltel Group has not adhered to any voluntary codes in respect of marketing, Group PR7 communications, including advertising, including for advertising. promotion, and sponsorship, by type of outcomes Customer privacy Total number of substantiated complaints G4regarding breaches of customer privacy and No duly-grounded complaints of this type were received in 2016. Group PR8 losses of customer data Compliance Monetary value of significant fines for nonTwo fines have been levied, one for €50,000 in respect of notification of rates to G4compliance with laws and regulations customers and organisations, and a second fine for €240,000, regarding the setting Group PR9 concerning the provision and use of of rates in extra pay services. Claims received through consumer organisations are products and services disclosed on page 32. 65 Appendix GRI indicators G4-10 Workforce characteristics 2015 2016 Category Men Women Total Men Women Total Executives 52 9 61 48 9 57 Managers 71 32 103 66 34 100 Other professionals 185 194 379 182 188 370 TOTAL 308 235 543 296 231 527 G4-EN2 PERCENTAGE OF RECYCLED PAPER VS. TOTAL USED 2014 2015 2016 Percentage 4.8% 2.8% 3.3% Scope Euskaltel Group Group G4-EN15, EN16, EN17, EN18 EMISSIONS 2014 2015 2016 Units CO 2 (*1) 264.78 169.36 147.46 t CO 2 eq. t CO 2 eq. CH 4 (*1) 0.34 0.21 0.19 t CO 2 eq. Direct GHG N2O (*1) 3.57 2.19 1.94 (scope 1) t CO 2 eq. HFC (*1) (*2) 427.03 652.13 766.24 t CO 2 eq. PFC (*1) (*2) 0.00 0.00 0.00 t CO 2 eq. SF 6 (*1) (*2) 0.00 0.00 0.00 Indirect GHG t CO 2 eq. 10,358.37 13,190.62 9,479.44 (scope 2) CO 2 (*1) Intensity of GHG kg. CO2 5.42 6.26 4.49 e./prod. emissions CO 2 GHG emissions (scope t CO 2 eq. 309.58 309.43 325.77 3) CO 2 (*1) The Group used the method and conversions set out in Ihobe's Stop CO 2 tool in order to calculate GHG emissions. (*2) The Group used global warming potential (GWP) data set out in Regulation (EU) No 517/2014 in order to calculate HCFC, HFC and SF 6 emissions in CO 2 equivalent tonnes. G4-EN21 NO X , SO X AND OTHER SIGNIFICANT AIR EMISSIONS ASPECT 2015 2015 2016 Units SO 2 0.0014 0.0008 0.0008 t Other air emissions NO X 1.0893 0.6968 0.6066 t Solid particulates 0.0924 0.0591 0.0515 t In order to calculate SO 2 , NOx and PM emissions, the Group used data included in the EMEP/EEA air pollutant emission inventory guidebook (2013) published by the European Environment Agency. G4-EN28 CUSTOMER EQUIPMENT SOLD 2014 2015 2016 Percentage 40.3% 35.5% 43.0% G4-EN31 ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION EXPENDITURES Expenditure area (€) 2014 2015 2016 Waste management (handlers and 27,742 27,118 23,222 resources) Consultants and audits 28,253 28,780 14,728 G4-EN34 GRIEVANCES ABOUT ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS 2014 2015 2016 YEAR TOTAL 95 173 157 Interference at street cable boxes 92 168 143 Interference at nodes/equipment 1 2 11 Waste 2 3 3 66 G4-LA1 NUMBER AND RATES OF NEW EMPLOYEE HIRES AND EMPLOYEE TURNOVER BY AGE GROUP, GENDER AND REGION Under 30 31 – 50 Over 50 Men Women Men Women Men Women 2014 11 1 1 0 1 0 2015 1 0 3 0 0 1 2016 3 0 0 0 2 0 The external turnover rate, by gender and age, for 2016 is as follows: Under 30 31 – 50 Over 50 Men Women Men Women Men Women 2014 15 1 128 41 27 0 2015 0 0 5 8 5 0 2016 1 0 7 3 7 0 G4-LA6 TYPE OF INJURY AND RATES OF INJURY, OCCUPATIONAL DISEASES, LOST DAYS, AND ABSENTEEISM, AND TOTAL NUMBER OF WORK-RELATED FATALITIES, BY REGION AND BY GENDER Absenteeism (Euskaltel) 2014 2015 2016 Workforce 2.35 1.87 2.49 Men 1.19 0.31 0.76 Women 1.16 1.57 1.74 Absenteeism (R) 2014 2015 2016 Workforce 0.87 0.67 1.47 Men 0.51 0.43 0.74 Women 0.36 0.24 0.73 Severity and frequency indices 2014 2015 2016 Euskaltel R Euskaltel R Euskaltel R Severity index 0.19 0 0 0 0 0 Frequency index 2.07 0 0 0 0 0 G4-LA12 COMPOSITION OF GOVERNANCE BODIES AND BREAKDOWN OF EMPLOYEES PER EMPLOYEE CATEGORY ACCORDING TO GENDER, AGE GROUP, MINORITY GROUP MEMBERSHIP, AND OTHER INDICATORS OF DIVERSITY 2015 2016 Personnel Personnel under the under the Collective Managers Executives Collective Managers Executives Labour Labour Agreement Agreement MEN 21 10 25 25 10 23 >50 WOMEN 6 0 2 10 0 2 MEN 158 61 27 152 56 25 30>=50 WOMEN 182 32 7 173 34 7 MEN 6 0 0 5 0 0 >=30 WOMEN 6 0 0 5 0 0 * During 2016, two people with disabilities were hired. 67 Glossary • Internet Protocol Television (IPTV): pay television delivery systems using broadband based on internet protocol (IP). • Over-the-air (OTA) platform: real-time programming in respect of various software distribution methods, configuration adjustments and update of encryption keys. Automatic updates can be sent to all users from a central location. • Long Term Evolution (LTE) service: standard for high-speed wireless data transmission communications for mobile telephones and data handsets. • IP Multimedia Subsystem (IMS) architecture: framework for jointly delivering voice, data, video, services and images through an infrastructure based on routing of packets via IP addresses. This makes it possible to incorporate all types of services into a network. • Internet Protocol/Multiprotocol Label Switching (IP/MPLS): data transfer mechanisms design to transport data for circuit-switched and packet-switched networks. • Ethernet broadband (NEBA) access service: wholesale broadband service allowing alternative operators to offer their customers service independently • Fibre To The Home (FTTH): telecommunications technology based on the use of fibre optic cables to distribute advanced services. • Access points (AP): Specific professional access points. 68 Global Compact GRI correspondence table GLOBAL COMPACT INDIRECTLY RELEVANT GRI PRINCIPLE DIRECTLY RELEVANT GRI INDICATORS AREA INDICATORS Businesses should support and respect the protection of (G4-11), (G4-12), (G4-13), internationally proclaimed human rights, within their area of (G4-HR1)-(G4-HR8); (G4-HR10) (G4-SO1) Human rights influence. Principle 2 Business should make sure that they are not (G4-HR1), (G4-HR10), (G4-HR7) complicit in human rights abuses. Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to (G4-HR4), (G4-11), (G4-LA4) collective bargaining. Principle 4 Businesses should uphold the elimination of all (G4-HR1), (G4-HR2), (G4(G4-HR6) Labour forms of forced and compulsory labour. HR10) Principle 5 Business should uphold the effective abolition of (G4-HR1), (G4-HR2), (G4(G4-HR5) child labour. HR10) Principle 6 Businesses should uphold the elimination of (G4-HR3), (G4-LA1), (G4-LA12), (G4(G4-HR1) (G4-HR10), (G4discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. LA13) EC5), (G4-EC6), (G4-LA2) Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary (G4-14) (G4-EC2) approach to environmental challenges. (G4-EC2), (G4-EN1), (G4-EN3), (G4-EN8), (G4-EN9), (G4(G4-EN2), (G4-EN6), (G4-EN7), (G4EN11), (G4-EN12), (G4-EN14), Principle 8 Businesses should undertake initiatives to EN10), (G4-EN13), (G4-EN19), (G4(G4-EN17), (G4-EN20), (G4Environment promote greater environmental responsibility. EN22), (G4-EN23), (G4-EN27), (G4EN21), (G4-EN24), (G4-EN26), EN28), (G4-EN31) (G4-EN29), (G4-EN30), (G4PR3), (G4-PR4) (G4-EN2), (G4-EN6), (G4-EN7), (G4Principle 9 Businesses should encourage the development EN10), (G4-EN19), (G4-EN27), (G4and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. EN28) Principle 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all Anti-corruption (G4-SO3)-(G4-SO5) (G4-SO6) its forms, including extortion and bribery. 69 EUSKALTEL GROUP Parque Científico y Tecnológico de Bizkaia, 809 48160 Derio. Bizkaia. +34 94 401 10 00 memoriarc@euskaltel.com www.euskaltel.com
