CAIRO FOR INVESTMENT AND REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2015/2016 STATEMENT OF CONTINUING SUPPORT On November 2003, Cairo for Investment and Real Estate Development (CIRA) became a signatory to the United Nations’ Global Compact, assuring its full compliance with the Ten Principles in every aspect of its operations. Furthermore, the company has taken serious steps in supporting non-governmental organizations, especially those working in the field of education and development. The CIRA Group focused its investments in various licensed sectors, thus achieving a stable, diversified investment portfolio. CIRA Group is well positioned to drive future growth with the managerial and technical resources allocated during the past 26 years of operations. The CIRA Group’s affiliated companies achieve excellence in each sector they operate in, through solid experience, technical capability, and continuous investment in new products’ growth. Due to its firm belief in specialization, the company has founded several sister companies, thus sharpening its focus and honing its services. This approach has guaranteed better utilization of our efforts and has further enhanced the professional experience in the required fields. Education, being our prime field of operation, we focus on educational institutions management and setup. We also focus on educational technology and information technology solutions, keeping a stronghold on the fast-paced and broadspectrum of technological development. We strive to deploy new and emerging technologies to further enhance the performance and service to our established business-base. CIRA is adopting responsible business activities that are consistent with its reputation. Integrity, transparency, equality and quality are our main pillars of managing our businesses. Accordingly, we are committed to protecting the health and safety of our workforce (on the corporate, onsite and schools levels), students, contractors, suppliers, and the communities where we operate. We are committed to minimizing our environmental footprints in all of our business and projects. Finally, we are profoundly committed to our community engagement set program believing it is part of our existence, success and sustainability. With our diversified business streams our focus remains unified and this is continuously maintained through our business development approach. It is with pleasure that we reaffirm our commitment to the UN Global Compact in 2016. In order to meet our commitment to report on progress to our stakeholders, we have prepared this Communications on Progress. Dr. Hassan El-Kalla Chairman, Cairo for Investment and Real Estate Development OVERVIEW Cairo for Investment and Real Estate Development (CIRA) was founded in 1992. The company’s primary purpose and core competency is to invest in and manage educational systems. This includes building, owning, and operating schools throughout Egypt. However, the company is also involved with other related (and unrelated) activities such as real estate investment, engineering & construction, information technology, automatic data capturing, professional training, and healthcare development. With a view to expanding our reach in Egypt from greater Cairo to other cities, CIRA is currently undertaking an expansion program over the next 5 years. CIRA has continued to thrive and achieve financial success. Its net consolidated operating profits have grown steadily the past several years from about 2.4m LE in 2004 to 57.7 m LE in 2016. CIRA holds more than 15 affiliate companies, with Futures Edcational Systems (FES) being its flagship business. FES is now the largest chain of schools in Egypt, with schools and five diverse education systems. FES has developed schools around various educational systems including the National Egyptian Curriculum, American System, IGSCE, French System, and German System. The schools serve more than 18,000 students around Greater Cairo and five other governorates, and aims for wider national coverage. The first school was established in Nasr City in 1993. The chain has now expanded into 24 schools throughout the country. BUC opened its gates in 2014, with the number of enrolled students reaching approximately 2,000 students. The labor market needs qualified professionals in the areas of healthcare, technology, architecture, economics, management, fine arts, and linguistics. Aside from the general university programs, BUC is home to faculties of Pharmacy and Pharmaceutical Industries, Dental and Oral Medicine, Physical Therapy, Nursing, Business and Economics, Engineering and Technology, Applied Arts, and Linguistics and Translation. Upon its completion in 2018, BUC will house 15 departments with a capacity for 20,000 students. 50 government scholarships are currently offered for students seeking to attend Badr, validating both the need for Badr and its already high quality and standards. Additional internallyoffered scholarships and an efficient management approach allow Badr University to offer an affordable and high-quality education. BUC will assist in closing the gap through technology, continuing education of teachers and professors, building character and strong minds, cooperation between local and foreign universities, contributing to the development of scientific research, and offering it in an atmosphere that inspires value, patriotism, honesty, and pride. One of the greatest benefits BUC has to offer is an on-campus community college. The community college will be dedicated to hands-on and practical work experience; providing an opportunity for students to apply the skills they are learning in the classroom to be better prepared to enter the workforce immediately following graduation. Technology at the University will meet all international standards for universities, including a state-of-the-art learning platform, fully integrated classrooms, and fully equipped labs. CIRA’s success as an education provider relies on the company’s ability to grow both in number of schools and the offering the group provides. Abraaj was able to fill a number of gaps to ensure management gain focus and could implement that growth strategy effectively. These included 1) engaging PWC for the establishment of a mapping of standard operating procedures for the Finance and Engineering functions at CIRA, 2) introducing a number of Abraaj-initiated key hires including Colin Penfold as head of Schools and Mohamed El Khouly as CFO both of whom have streamlined business operations and brought about tangible quality improvements in CIRA’S offerings (the former conducted a teacher KPI program and the latter has dramatically improved the reporting lines within the firm, iv) establishing an audit committee headed by an Abraaj appointee/ employee. Abraaj has brought about a number of opportunities for CIRA, namely fast-tracking value creation initiatives including University construction and establishing a CIRA presence in new catchment areas. Furthermore, Abraaj has introduced the group to grant-providers that have successfully inducted CIRA and granted the group funds to further streamline and facilitate governance processes. Abraaj has also played a significant role in key hires (CFO) which have been pivotal in institutionalizing the business. Abraaj has also led the improvement of board package delivery and quality. Abraaj has further provided Business Development support to CIRA, and has provided support to manage group legal restructuring. Abraaj is working closely with CIRA management to produce the firm’s first sustainability report. Company Portfolio  Ownerships of Schools: This includes buildings, land, and other fixed assists in 24 (majority owned) schools operating under the “Futures Schools” brand.  Ownership of Universities: This includes buildings, land, and other fixed assists. CIRA owns 100% of Badr University in Cairo and has a 30 % ownership in Deraya University.  School and Facility Management: CIRA owns a company in each business area.  Non-educational Businesses: This business stage is synergistic to CIRA’s school business and comprises, I.T., construction and furnishing, academic and technical support program for licensing and accreditation. The following chart depicts the Company’s Legal Structure: The company imbues a strong vision and was founded with the intent of improving the educational standards in Egypt. These strong corporate principles are still evident in the company today and firmly espoused by the Chairman/CEO and other Board members. These principles have made a significant contribution to CIRA’s success and provide a promising foundation for future sustainability. SUBSIDIARIES Futures Educational Systems Futures Educational Systems was initiated with a mission to help enhance quality and equity in education as a whole, by establishing an educational model, which would be replicable, affordable, and economically viable. The Futures Foundation is a network of educational institutions with a mandate to develop instructional practices that help students excel in all educational systems including the National Egyptian Curriculum, American System, IGCSE, French, and German System. http://www.futuresnet.net Egyptian Academy for Human Development The Egyptian Academy for Human Development (EAHD) wasfounded to help professionals and students seek their highest potential in their different fields and become partners in the nation’s development. EAHD is the outcome of an American-Egyptian project between the Futures Foundation and Edusystems organization, which is a U.S.-based company with more than 25 years of experience in the Arab World. The labs in the Egyptian Academy for Human Development offer students of all ages an introduction to a new technological era. It embodies a number of educational technology opportunities for example: Growing-Up Ready Lab, Action Lab & Ellis Lab. EAHD also offers a variety of trainings including computer, professional development, and teacher trainings. Edu Systems International Edu Systems International (ESI) is a leading provider of professional services and products that assist in the enhancement of quality education across the globe. ESI assists organizations in achieving effectiveness and agility in a changing and collaborative world. The company primarily focuses on both the Egyptian national and international educational institutions and aims to improve student achievement and overall organizational development by implementing a number of strategies. ESI is a leader in the development of high standards and supporting products that result in high levels of quality and productivity. http://www.esi.edu.eg EMCO for Computers and Systems EMCO for Computers and Systems specializes in providing integrated advanced Arabic/Latin computer solutions for the Egyptian market. EMCO for Computer and Systems provides its services to the major sectors in the Egyptian market namely: Business, Energy, Health, Government, Industry, and Education. http://www.emco-co.com Health Care International Health Care International (HCI) was founded in 1992 with a mission to assist public, private, and community organizations achieve their strategic objectives and improve their performance and outcomes. HCI has years of development expertise in Egypt and other countries (Jordan, Lebanon, Yemen, Saudi Arabia, Sultanate of Oman, Sudan, Iraq, Syria, UAE, Morocco, Cyprus, and Turkey). HCI plays both a facilitating as well as an implementing role in bridging the cultural gap between various partners, donors and recipients in order to make development cost-effective. Moreover, HCI manages unique health maintenance programs (HMP) with a clear focus on health promotion and raising awareness and practices towards healthy lifestyles. HCI is leading unique and well-built WHO-funded programs in Egypt and in other Eastern Mediterranean Region (EMR/WHO) countries. HCI is leading various national initiatives and assuming the role of Local Partner in many consortia responsible for undertaking bi-lateral and international improvement programs funded by US-AID, WB, EC, UNDCCP, UNESCO, UNFPA, and Governments of the Netherlands and Finland. http://www.hci.com.eg Badr University in Cairo Badr University in Cairo (BUC) is a modern, private, nonprofit university located in Badr City, a new, pristine urban community in Greater Cairo. Providing diverse, unique and rigorous academic and experiential programs and specializations across 8 faculties. Offering high quality academic programs that foster competence and skills desperately needed in the local, regional and international job markets. Striving to have a positive influence on society through exploring, discovering, disseminating and applying knowledge, and to provide education, academic scholarship and research at the highest international levels of excellence ranging from undergraduate to advanced graduate and professional education, and from basic scientific research to applied scientific research and applied arts. BUC aspires to become one of the top universities in Egypt and the Middle East. http://buc.edu.eg HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLE 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights.  CIRA’s policies and strategies assure supporting and preserving the human rights of its employees. We are keen on carrying-out regular impact assessments, assuring full compliance with human rights principals.  Although we do not have an employee association, necessary measures are in place to allow for adequate communication. Further discussed in Principle 3.  CIRA Applies NFPA (National Fire Protection Association) 101 “The Life Safety Code” to ensure that the design, construction and operation of new school buildings comply with life and fire safety standard. The company strictly applies and informs all its employees of the company set fire procedures and evacuation plan. In addition, the company conducts a health and safety training once a year to ensure that all employees are aware of important health and safety issues.  All new facilities are equipped for ease of mobility for disabled persons including ramps and rails.  Furthermore, CIRA ensures that its business partners uphold the same values, regarding human rights, before conducting any dealings.  All employees are given training sessions on emergency procedures, including fire drills and evacuation procedures.  Internal Auditors conduct safety audit on a regular basis and make regular unannounced visits to sites and schools.  CIRA has an informal policy of engagement with the local community. Those wishing to complain are reported to have access to school management and community grievances are raised through a Quality Assurance Unit housed at Edu Systems International, the company which is responsible for the overall management and supervision of the schools, and go straight to the director to voice their community concerns.  CIRA provides a safe and healthy working environment to prevent work related accidents and injuries. A safe and hygienic working environment is provided. Best occupational health and safety practice is promoted, bearing in mind the prevailing knowledge of the industry and of any specific hazards through a well-defined checklist covering international codes and standards. This checklist is monitored and evaluated by the Quality Assurance Unit.  As part of its social outreach and engagement with the broader community, CIRA created a special program for Syrian refugees as part of its stakeholder engagement initiatives. Since the pilot program commenced, over 560 Syrian refugee children have been enrolled and school fees have been significantly subsidized in order to alleviate the financial burden on families. The program also employs qualified Syrian teachers to ensure further economic impact for this community in Egypt, 80% of whom are women.  CIRA’s Syrian refugee school is a great success and has a long wait-list of applicants; CIRA has applied for further licenses to increase the capacity of that offering.  CIRA has established the Scholarship Foundation to award bright students with tuition scholarships at Badr University.  CIRA is in advanced talks with a number of GCC countries for the establishment of affordable schools for the now over 8 million Egyptian ex-pats currently residing in those countries.  CIRA’s schools in governorates outside of Cairo are growing exponentially and creating access to quality education, which was extremely limited outside of Cairo. CIRA now has schools serving Bedouin families in Dahab (Sinai) and in Minya and Assiout (Upper Egypt).  CIRA has adopted a minimum wage about that which was decreed by the government for all full-time employees. Moreover, the HR Director’s posts and policies have been created and filled at the level of group school and the university, but has yet to be introduced at the holding company level. Currently, School and University HR covers 94% of HR needs of the entire group. PRINCIPLE 2: Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses.  CIRA conducts its business under well-established regulations in which fundamental human rights are well protected.  CIRA has an HR policy, which addresses employment, salary structure, working hours, vacation and sick days, and an employee grievance mechanism. The HR policy also requires employment and promotion decisions to be made irrespective of race, gender, religion, political orientation, etc.  Health care insurance is provided to all CIRA staff. We also have several primary health care centers in our different premises that provide medical services for our staff.  We have contracted with QNB Alahli Bank for Life Insurance for all employees. Upon death, the beneficiary will receive a lump sum of 20x the salary of the employee paid by the company.  We have a well-established Child Care Centre that caters to the needs of our employees and their families. Breast feeding rooms are also available for our postnatal female staff in 80 % of our premises.  $35,000 USD per year is designated towards philanthropic activities within the schools.  We secure a discount of up to 50% on educational fees for our staff, thus assuring the development and wellbeing of not only our staff, but their families as well.  In order to comply with a fair work schedule, we operate on a 9–5 schedule, which amounts to 40 hours per week. We ensure that extra hours are properly compensated, and that no one is forced to work on either a scheduled vacation or a national holiday.  To assure optimal personnel development, 2% of our current budget is designated to providing training opportunities to our staff in different fields of interest.  The company has thorough grievance policies for both its employees and the community at large.  Disciplinary codes: Non-compliance with any of the above mentioned actions would automatically go under the following penalty cycle depending on the case reported. o First: Complaints to be directed to head of departments (response in max. 3 days for proper investigation). o Escalated to internal investigation committee (response in max. 3 days for proper investigation). o Internal Investigation Committee pushing it to legal department if needed (response in max. 3 days for proper investigation). Penalties and action taken depends on case severity: verbal warning, written warning, immediate dismissal and /or legal action. o All accidents are reported and filed.  Physical abuse, threats of physical abuse, unusual punishments or discipline, sexual and other harassment, and intimidation are strictly prohibited and corrective actions will be taken immediately through set mechanism. In 2016, a security guard at one of the schools was detained as part of an investigation into the sexual harassment of a FLS student. He was released on bail in light of the official report of the medical examiner showing no DNA evidence to prove his involvement in the case levied against him. CIRA has taken the following precautionary measures since this incident was reported: o CCTV cameras have been installed in ten of CIRA’s schools, with a plan to roll out CCTVs to all remaining schools by the end of Q2 2017. o In efforts to improve and formalize its open door policy, CIRA announced the establishment of a new CRM unit to handle all complaints and concerns on the first day of classes in the current 2015/1016 academic year. o The CRM unit includes review cycles by independent teams that are not part of the current staff, and has a direct phone number to handle complaints and concerns. o CIRA has launched a positive disciple program and psychological support unit across all facilities to improve the welfare of the student body. o In light of the events, the security guard in question is no longer employed by any of CIRA’s schools. There is no intention to re-hire the guard; however, in light of the lack of evidence against him, CIRA has offered to support him financially and help him get employment elsewhere. LABOUR STANDARDS PRINCIPLE 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining.  Currently there is no employee association inside CIRA.  CIRA implemented an open door policy to ensure open channels of communication between management and the employees.  A secure and confidential complaint box is available in all CIRA companies, assuring honest employee feedback.  CIRA conducts monthly meetings with heads of departments to review each department’s employee-needs and feedback. To further guarantee that the employees’ voices are heard, regular comprehensive staff meetings are convened. PRINCIPLE 4: Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour.  There are no incidents of compulsory or forced labor inside the system.  CIRA’s employees are hired with contracts that are governed by the labor rules and regulations of the Egyptian Government.  Our contracts clearly state each employee’s duties and responsibilities, and the appropriate measures to be taken in case the wish to leave.  Employees are allowed to leave employment any time with reasonable notice.  Any changes occurring in the company it is announced to all employees at least a month prior to the change taking place.  CIRA appoint candidates based on a publicly announced recruitment adds insuring a fair chance for real qualified candidates. In addition, different parties to conduct interviews insure there are no by any chances of preferential treatment or nepotism.  All employees are evaluated twice a year to ensure competency and development of employees and upon the evaluation appraisal and bonus take place.  CIRA creates a yearly plan for employees’ skills development depending on specialization and their needed skills fulfillment whether technical or soft skills based on internal conducted evaluation. PRINCIPLE 5: Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labour.  We take extensive measures to assure the abolition of child labor. The minimum age of employment at CIRA is above 18 years old, and there have been no incidents of violations of such rule.  Furthermore, CIRA ensures that its business partners uphold the same values, regarding child labor, before conducting any dealings. PRINCIPLE 6: Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation.  CIRA assures the abolition of glass ceilings, and that no employee is discriminated against based on gender, age, or race. An employee is selected on the basis of their ability to do the job and there is no distinction, exclusion or preference made on other grounds.  CIRA is aware of the gender wage gap, and assures that employees of either gender are treated equally, and not discriminated against based on gender. Current gender balance on the board is 20%, in upper management at the company level is 15%, and upper management at the school level is 85%.  Due to the nature of our prime sector of operation, education, and because of the prevalence of female teachers, the ratio of females hired by CIRA is higher than that of males. Our employment ratio is 70% female to 30% male.  CIRA supports disabled engagement employability. Applicant who is disabled and meets the essential criteria for an advertised job and capable to carrying out day-to-day activities, the company policy is to interview all and candidates who best qualify will be appointed proving all the needed support. ENVIRONMENT PRINCIPLE 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges.  Before approaching any construction endeavors, CIRA conducts an environmental impact study of the area of construction to assure the feasibility of construction with minimal damage to the environment.  CIRA's main activity mediating the environmental effects of its operations is moving the schools to paperless workplaces though further integration of its digital education program at all class rooms. Moreover, we employ strict recycling policies to ensure maximum utilization of our supplies, and to adhere to an eco-friendly approach.  CIRA is currently working with the UNDP and the GEF program to transform all of its projects into LED energy, and to arrive to more sustainable solutions in drastically minimizing energy consumption by 2020. The university was already built on 100% LED utilization system. PRINCIPLE 8: Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility.  Currently, CIRA has a policy of allocating 35 % green space in all of its school premises.  Through our schools and the Skoool Learning Portal (http://www.skoool.com.eg), we encourage students to delve further into sciences and spread awareness about eco-friendly practices for the environment.  The company strictly prohibits and restricts smoking in the work place and releases continuous awareness handouts about employees’ health and safety issues in which smoking restriction and impacts are clearly highlighted to ensure a better and healthier environment for all its employees.  In order to formalize and institutionalize governance and safety at CIRA schools, each CIRA campus has an operational manager responsible for E&S issues including reporting arrangements for E&S issues and employee trainings on fire and life safety and health care. The Quality Assurance (QA) Unit at CIRA undertakes a bi-annual E&S assessment of the schools’ facilities.  CIRA has established an emergency and evacuation plan at each one of its schools, and conducts annual drill with the civil defense institution in each as well. As part of its CAP for the coming year, CIRA has decided to hire new security personnel.  At each CIRA campus there is an operational manager responsible for E&S issues including reporting arrangements for E&S issue and employee training on Fire and Life safety and Health care. An E&S assessment of the schools’ facilities is undertaken bi-annually by the Quality Assurance (QA) Unit at CIRA.  All of CIRA’s new facilities have utilized LED technology to reduce electricity consumption, including Badr University, the new campus set up by the group. The United Nations Development Program has provided an in kind contribution to cover the costs of a study on existing CIRA schools to understand how they can transfer their electricity consumption to LED technology. Moving forward, CIRA is focused on implementing LED technology across the majority of its school premises.  ESI, a management company for schools and CIRA subsidiary, is responsible for the E&S issues at the schools as part of the school’s license to operate. National schools are reviewed by the Ministry of Education and the national civil defense unit. In addition, international schools are accredited by Northwest Commission, a US-based accreditation that includes environment and safety. Currently, ESI is developing environmental, health and safety (EHS) procedures, facility guidelines and maintenance procedures that complies with IFC’s PS and host country regulations, and is incorporating them into a Social and Environmental Management System (SEMS). CIRA’s SEMS is in final draft format, currently with the IFC for advisory input. PRINCIPLE 9: Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies.  CIRA is dedicated to design and implement global IT standards and solutions to improve efficiency and gain a competitive edge through implanting unique, up to date business solutions which are also featured in all designed and built schools and universities. Such integrated system has created to business solutions that are less time consuming, environmentally friendly, and gives a unique identification.  As previously mentioned, we have a policy of allocating 35% green space in all of our school premises.  As mentioned under Principle 7, we employ firm recycling policies in all our schools. ANTI-CORRUPTION PRINCIPLE 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery.  CIRA is developing a new framework to deal with stakeholder issues and grievances, including issue logs, quarterly progress reports (QPRs), and incident reports to be enforced in all schools. CIRA is also developing customer relationship management (CRM) system to manage, analyze and address stakeholder grievances. The company is also very active on engaging stakeholders on all their concerns through social media.  CIRA has an established Internal Audit function that is producing routine reports for senior management and the board, including previously unaudited areas. We have also hired a new External Auditor, replacing long-serving auditor with new, reputable firm, to reinforce independence.  CIRA has an internal whistle blowing protection system and any abuse of this protection will warrant disciplinary action. Any compliant should preferably be reported in writing not verbal to ensure a clear understanding of the issues raise. The letter should be directly forwarded to the internal investigation committee or to the CEO. The case reported should be based on facts and not based on assumptions to allow proper assessment and evaluation. Employee is free to put his name or leave the letter anonymous.  Failure to comply with the requirements of employee’s disciplinary code of the company could result in taking a clear-cut action to terminate such actions. This takes place through a clear formal system that employees and the company to settle the matter in a formal processes  CIRA adopted PWC as its new external auditors to improve standards of auditing and transparency. A new Microsoft ERP System has gone live since October 2016 that will further facilitate these processes. ANNEX I AUDITED CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT FYE Dec. 2015 (EGP) Total Revenue 260,754,472 Total Cost of Goods Sold (157,058,907) Gross Profit 103,695,565 General & Administrative Expenses (G&A) General & Administrative Expenses (G&A) (23,659,726) Net Operating Income 80,035,839 Other Income 8,829,830 Other Expenses (26,876,458) Net profit before Income tax 61,989,211 Income Tax (16,720,859) Net profit after tax 45,268,352 ANNEX II AUDITED CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT YTD August 2016 (EGP) Total Revenue 150,712,664 Total Cost of Goods Sold (107,282,796) Gross Profit 43,429,868 General & Administrative Expenses (G&A) General & Administrative Expenses (G&A) (23,236,895) Net Operating Income 20,192,973 Other Income 2,799,769 Other Expenses (14,042,369) Net profit before Income tax 8,950,373 Income Tax (4,251,363) Net profit after tax 4,699,010
