GLOBAL COMPACT COP 2017 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS PLH ARKITEKTER A/S VERMUNDSGADE 38K 2100 KØBENHAVN Ø WWW.PLH.DK CONTINUED SUPPORT FOR THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT PLH Arkitekter A/S is a multi-disciplinary architectural practice focused on stimulating an interactive and productive working environment for our talented and creative people, partly architects, but also interior designers and industrial designers, together with specialists within construction, process planning, sustainability and communication. PLH works with a broad spectrum of commissions from architecture, urban planning and workplace design to client advisory and industrial design. The company is often involved in complex, large-scale multi-disciplinary projects that evolve over long timeframes and are often associated with a high degree of confidentiality and proper due process. Regardless of the project type, PLH’s commitment to responsible business practices and highest standards of professional integrity is at the foundation of all interactions with clients, collaborators and fellow colleagues. PLH’s business ethics and code of conduct is grounded in 40 years of professional industry experience and the commitment of the leadership team to follow responsible business practices in an ever changing global marketplace. Since 2009, PLH has been a member of the UN Global Compact initiative as part of maintaining and developing our social and environmental responsibility. PLH embraces, supports and enacts, within its sphere of influence, the Global Compact set of core values in the areas of human rights, labour standards, the environment, and anti-corruption. PLH wishes to continue our participation in the Global Compact and we seek to support the principles as an integral part of our day-to-day operation and organizational culture, and where possible, align leadership strategies to the ten principles. The principles covering the environment are a focus area for PLH where we can have a measurable, positive impact. Søren Mølbak, Director, Architect MAA July 2017 THE 10 PRINCIPLES Human Rights Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2 make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Labour Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4 the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5 the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6 the elimination of discrimination in respect of employ ment and occupation. Environment Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8 undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9 encourage the development and diffusion of environ mentally friendly technologies. Anti-Corruption Principle 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. BUSINESS INTEGRITY AND RESPONSIBILITY Member of DANSKE ARK UN Global Compact Paulette Christophersen Partner PLH is a member of the Danish Association of Architectural Firms (DANSKE ARK), and our operational procedures are based on Danish Financial Reporting Svenn Gunborg Olsen Chief Financial Officer Legislation and DANSKE ARK’S instructions, supported by BDO consulting auditors guidelines and contractual standards, aimed at strengthening the quality level and professionalism of practicing architectural firms, and Legal Accountability and Risk covering: Management Søren Mølbak Partner and Director Level of professional liability insurance and supported by Mazanti-Andersen Korsø Jensen standard contracting agreements General AdvokatPartnerskab Conditions for Consultancy and Assistance 1989 (ABR 89). Quality Assurance Ib Laursen Partner Collective bargaining process whereby DANSKE ARK negotiates the general agreements on pay and working conditions etc. of the technical staff Digital Knowledge Management in the employment of the member firms. Jan Sander Fredriksen Partner and Claus Johannessen Senior Architect Fees and standards for architectural work with individual clients, private client organizations Sustainability PLH Green Team and public authorities. Søren Mølbak Partner and Director DANSKE ARK also participates in negotiations Paulette Christophersen Partner, Steen Enrico with public authorities on tax aspects, prices Andersen Partner and Sisse Marie Rüsz and profit legislation, regulations on competitive Sustainability Manager tendering, liability and insurance matters as well as building assignment procedures, quality assuStaff Representatives rance and other terms relating to the professioHenning Solfeldt Product Design Manager nal activities of the member firms. Mark Hamann Hansen Constructing architect MAK and Laura Mayner Architect. PLH is obliged to respect the basic conventions Occupational Health & Safety Supervisor Helle based on national and international legislation Maria Christensen Senior Project Leader on human rights, the Danish Consolidation Act no. 68, of January 2005, and our membership of the Danish Association of Architectural Firms. “Our business responsiblity is Leadership Responsibility based on high standards of Danish legislation and our active The PLH leadership team members are indiviengagement in associations, dually and collectively responsible for ensuring committees and conferences” the firm’s adherence to responsible business practices and our Code of Ethics. To that end, the following nominated partners, directors and professional staff have been assigned specific areas of responsibility: WORK ENVIRONMENT, POLICY AND SOCIAL ACTION PLH has a clear and balanced gender employees have undergone specialised ces, every employee has a formalized policy where some of our key values are training through the Psychiatry Fund to confidential meeting with the closest to embrace diversity of competencies, be able to advise and guide colleagues partner once a year. The purpose is to experiences and viewpoints and to on issues of stress. The PLH leadership, give the employees an opportunity to support a humanistic and collegial work together with the stress counsellors address issues related to their work style in order to add real value to our have prepared an anti-stress policy situation to express their professional business. guideline that covers both preventative wishes and dreams and to align the actions (behaviours and organisation of wishes of the employee with the overall work), detection of early warning signs direction of the company. Actions and management of stress affected We recruit solely on proven competenstaff. Any stress affected employees will cies and experiences, not sex, nationabe offered psychological consultation as Attractive Workplace lity, religion nor age. Staff members are needed. PLH is recognized as a stable and attracselected for project teams on the basis tive workplace, with many employees of relevant qualifications and experibeing a part of the practice for 10-25 ence corresponding with the project Employee Involvement years. demands and our overall strategies and PLH follows the Danish Working According to our latest annual Work goals for meeting the clients’ needs. Environment Act and an integrated part Assessment carried out in 2017, our of working at PLH is, involvement and staff is very satisfied with the working Stress Prevention day-to-day dialogue between the leaenvironment, also in relation to the split dership team members and the emploof sex, nationality and age. We foster an In order to promote well-being at yees. To make sure employees thrive open and inclusive culture where racism work, PLH has in recent years focusand develop their skills and competenor bullying is not tolerated. sed on prevention of stress. Two of our We believe that responsible design and architecture is based on understanding people's activity and culture WORK ENVIRONMENT, POLICY AND SOCIAL ACTION Number of employees at PLH split on sex and age. PLH is a team of 72 employees in July 2017 age 20 to 30 years age 41 to 50 years age 31 to 40 years age 51 to 60 years age 61 to +70 years Continued Focus on the we’re designing for. In a time when Celebrating Diversity Working Environment Generation Y is about to overtake the One of the building blocks of the PLH Babyboomers in the workforce, it’s vital Our procedures have proven effec-tive family is our celebration of diversity. to understand the new social structures and PLH wishes to continue to invest The office is home to colleagues from in the work environment new ways of in the working environment in order around the world who are working personnel infrastructure, work habits to remain an attractive, healthy and protogether to improve quality of life. This and demands on the physical environductive office retaining and attracting creates a diverse working environment ment. the best. The priority of a responsible where multiple languages and cultures work environment and recognition of To become wiser about the new generameet. human diversity is a significant value for tion, PLH held a network meeting where Great value is put on maintaining and the office’s ability to evolve in tune with the consulting firm Enso facilitated a strengthening the social interactions the changing demands, challenges and 3-hour session, containing a Generation between colleagues through multiple tendencies of our industry. Y presentation and subsequent workevents and interest groups. The latest shop and debate. There was both inteaddition being the PLH cycling team resting knowledge about the workings A Day with Generation X and Y of Generation Y, as well as relevant and with the goal of participating in the WOW Cyclothon 2018, a team race of In order to continue to maintain a social identifiable issues, advice and solutions 1358km around Iceland. focus and improving quality of life, it’s to take into our daily practice. important to understand the people Our purpose is to improve the quality of people’s life through design. This could be at home, at work, at school, in the city, in nature, at the station anywhere people gather in a space or use objects of design OUR PURPOSE IS TO IMPROVE QUALITY OF LIFE Environmental Challenges Promoting Awareness ment of sustainable projects that are also aesthetically, functionally and PLH’s main focus in connection to PLH supports a considered approach to economically successful. the principles of UN Global Compact environmental challenges by promois directed towards environmental ting our own and others awareness of challenges and possibilities. PLH has a the impacts on the environment and Environmentally Sustainable responsibility to create holistic sustainasurroundings. We expect our staff to be Design ble and humanistic solutions to the conscious of the consequences of their By focusing attention and knowledge greatest extent that it can influence actions concerning the environment, sharing on environmentally sustainable project outcomes. whether it is “locally” at the office or design (ESD) parameters, the practice “globally” with a client. has been able to inform clients of posImproving Quality of Life sibilities and advantages, and advise We are committed to reviewing how Sustainability them about ESD options and systems, that can become an investment in opeour activities can contribute to the Buildings are more than “passive” rational savings. reduction of CO² emissions and miniusers of energy. They are also “active” mize the planet’s consumption of fossil environments where the accommoOur significant competencies within the resources. dation of human needs is an integral area have enabled the office to respond part of the creation of environmentally to and challenge the expectations of However, sustainability is not only a sustainable solutions where people our increasingly environmentally consciquestion of energy – social well-being thrive. ous investors and clients. and cultural behavior are aspects that we consider just as vital a part of desigTherefore, sustainability is an intening sustainable buildings. grated element in our projects right Sustainability Design Tool Our mission and purpose is to improve from the initial thoughts about form We aim to strengthen our holistic quality of life and the value of our and function, where passive design approach across disciplines creating work is found where the built envparameters help define the physical informed, inventive and sustainaironment becomes a better place for design. We strive to inform our clients ble solutions. Our latest effort is the people – whether it’s minimizing energy throughout the decision making process development of a new design and consumption, improving indoor climate to optimize the outcomes within the communication tool. The tool is both or providing structures that resolve parameters of each project. meant as an internal design tool, social challenges. We see the integrated design process, assisting the design team in the design with workshops and knowledge shaprocess, as well as a means of commuring, as the foundation for the developnication with other stakeholders. The LOCAL INITIATIVES GLOBAL IMPACT tool illustrates the chosen focus on difInternal Task Force An essential approach in all our work ferent sustainability issues and can thus is the integration of hard factors such The office is revitalizing the internal be used to communicate how design as geometries, orientation, location of task-force working with initiatives and changes affect the overall sustainability windows, choice of materials, engineapproaches for internal development, performance. ering systems and lighting, with soft including; training, debate and knowfactors related to user comfort and ledge sharing, study trips, lectures, welfare. Local Resources workshops etc. The aim of the taskforce is to create ownership of the Central to sustainable design is using local resources and adapting the builsustainable development across the Our Office entire office and create an environment ding complex to the local climate condiPLH is working on a targeted effort to where challenging the status quo is the tions, inspired by the local tradition. minimize the environmental load of the norm. Sun screening, lighting control, natural daily running of our own office and to ventilation as well as local and natural create a healthy and safe workplace. materials are important factors to DGNB Certification Resource consumption (power, HVAC, obtain a comfortable indoor climate water) as well as the waste of office We are continuously having employees and optimize energy efficiency. The supplies and paper is continually being partake in the certification training choice of green initiatives needs to be reduced or recycled. from the Green Building Council seen from a lifecycle perspective as Denmark. DGNB Denmark is a Danish We are conscious of the environmental many solutions will have an appealing certification system for sustainability in impact of transportation to/from meetpay-back time when considered over buildings which match the high internaings, and use office bikes for meetings a 5, 10 or 15 year horizon for running tional standards. held within a 5 km radius of the office. costs. Our other initiatives in this area include We have also been part of a DGNBOther local resources such as wind for widespread use of tele-conferences and development team drawing up a new electricity, sun for energy, sea water for tele-meetings, together with purchacertification tool for existing office builcooling, rainwater for recycling and the sing carbon quotas on air travel. dings. As part of the pilot phase, we’ve underground for geothermal potentialcompleted the first ever certification of are also important factors to consider an existing office building in Denmark. “As architects, our area of expertise within sustainable design, is optimizing the passive characteristics in buildings, promoting the integrated design process and facilitating collaboration between the different stakeholders.” SISSE MARIE RÜSZ, ARCHITECT AND SUSTAINABILITY MANAGER PLH ARKITEKTER PLH OFFICE PREMISES REDESIGNING A FORMER FACTORY BUILDING We have transformed and redesigned dynamic effect, and exciting new vantatives of the Danish building industry our own office building contributing to tage points. evaluated the 6 projects and voted for the social taks of updating the existing the best project. building stock. Our office building was once a factory in the city of Showcasing the Industrial Past Copenhagen now it's transformed into The original crane structures and elePreserving History and Spirit a new workspace for PLH based on synments such as steel trusses and beams The committee described our project ergies from inside to outside. are exposed as a dramatic reminiscence with these words – ‘The PLH office has of the buildings industrial past. The taken a dose of their own medicine and cranes are now parked in each end of transformed an old factory building to The Refurbishment the studio where they create a ‘roof’ their new studio. The refurbishment is The conversion project involved rethat defines the café at one end and a beautiful example of how to modernfurbishment of the existing building, team space at the other. ize an old building while preserving adding a mezzanine along one side, as its history and spirit.’ Chairman of the a huge ‘piece of furniture’ providing 40 Nomination Committee and former City extra workspaces upstairs and diverse Nominated for Architect, Gøsta Knudsen, said: “The six ‘laboratory spaces’ below for meetings, The 'RENOVER' Award nominated projects are all performed model-making, brainstorming and prodOur office renovation was one of six at the highest professional level while uct research. The interior is defined by its projects to be nominated to become showcasing the width of renovation. spaciousness, with a ceiling height of 6.5 Denmark's best renovation in 2014. We have projects that intelligently and meters, and the tall, narrow industrial Initially, 165 projects were set to the artistically interact with their surroundwindows. The verticality of the space Renovation Award ‘RENOVER prisen’ in ings, projects with enormously ambitious is underlined through the rhythmic March 2014 and in June 2014 the field energy solutions and projects that comrepetition of columns and windows, and was reduced to only 6 nominated projpletely rethinks the buildings function the inserted mezzanine level creates a ects. An electoral college of 67 represenwithout compromising the heritage.“ It was important for us to preserve and showcase the history and spirit of the building to create an authentic atmosphere. We now have a spacious studio with distinct character and PAULETTE CHRISTOPHERSEN, both employees and visitors enjoy coming here PARTNER AND LEAD WORKPLACE DESIGNER, and complement our beautiful office. PLH ARKITEKTER ANTI-CORRUPTION, LABOUR AND HUMAN RIGHTS Anti-Corruption Danish legislation. Being a member of ding materials respect the protection DANSKE ARK The Danish Association of of internationally claimed human rights According to 'The Corruption Architectural Firms, PLH has to follow and are not complicit in human rights Perceptions Index' Denmark is the least DANSKE ARK’S instructions, guidelines abuses. We make sure we only do busicorrupted country in the world and and contractual standards and we are ness with companies and suppliers that has been for the last 5 years (2011-2016). obliged to follow Danish legislation as respect the rights of their workers, take Although bribery and corruption are well as respecting national and intercare of their security and do not use not a common phenomenon in our national legislation on human rights child labour. It's part of our normal proculture, we are still very aware of the conventions. cedures to use certified materials and to possibility of nepotism, exchanges of state in tenders that we do not accept favors, unofficial agreements between materials produced and manufactured companies etc. Therefore, we aim for Suppliers and Business with the assistance of child labour. clarity in all our business agreements. Partners We demand good working conditions Where PLH can make the greatest if we hear of workers in marble quarries Ensuring Human Rights and difference with regards to human not wearing masks or the use of child Labour Rights rights and labour rights is when we do labour, we immediately abolish all colbusiness with companies and suppliers laboration. Human rights and labour rights are from other countries. When possible we very well protected in Denmark and in always make sure manufacturers of builSUSTAINABLE SOLUTIONS AND DESIGNS # CASES General Approach to jects with the central aim to improve natural timber with concrete columns. Sustainable Solutions at PLH the environment, generating energy This maintains a common architectuand add value to the human everyday ral aesthetic in DSV’s buildings and PLH’s knowledge about sustainable life. reinforces a singular brand identity. solutions and initiatives, seen in a The DSV Warsaw building is designed broader perspective, is developed with emphasis on encouraging a social significantly by implementing specific Sustainable HQ for DSV and vibrant working environment. projects with defined goals from the Over the past years, PLH qualified to Outwardly, the building has a distinctive client’s viewpoint, and by participating participate in many competitions, most metal fin facade that reduces direct in competitions. All projects play an of which included sustainability as critesunlight. important role as ”case studies” which ria in the weighted scoring system. The building prospect calls for a building reinforce the practice’s competencies, skills and profile. In 2012, PLH won the competition for a that is certified according to BREEAM new headquarters for the transporta“Very Good”. PLH focuses on multiple tion and logistics company DSV with a elements through the holistic approach. Everyday Sustainable compact atrium for 750 employees. The Elements such as; energy efficiency Designing at PLH building supports DSV’s core values of ​​ through a compact building envelope, Apart from specific project examples, equality and openness, and the comexternal solar shading, highly insulated it is important to note that on a daily petition proposal suggested a series of facades, creating a visual connection basis, the staff at PLH is making inforsustainable initiatives, such as natural around the central open atrium space, med and conscious decisions impacting ventilation and CTS-controlled external day lit working spaces located near the on the environment when they use blinds. A large solar power plant on the facades, easily divided office areas for passive design parametres, select and adjacent terminal could be integrated dual tenancy arrangements and promospecify materials, finishes, furniture on the roof, in order to produce electing reductions in transport burdens. and fixtures. Through one-on-one or tricity used for forklifts and other local group activities, our staff is continually equipment. updated on new and emerging produDGNB Certification cts, techniques or manufacturers that PLH continues to partake in the can strengthen our ESD approach. BREEAM Certification development of sustainability in the As a direct result of th DSV HQ in building industry. One of the ways has Denmark, PLH is now working on a new been as part of the DGNB-development Products and Techniques to DSV office building in Warsaw which team, drawing up a new certification Reduce Environmental Impact builds upon key ideas developed in tool for existing office buildings. During PLH put effort into the specification, the successful project at Hedehusene, the pilot phase, PLH has completed use and development of new products Denmark. A compact office building is the first ever DGNB certification of an and techniques that reduce the impact proposed with working spaces arranexisting office building in Denmark. on the environment. As stated earlier, ged along the perimeter, adjacent to The focus of the DGNB certification for it is a question of using local resources breakout spaces around a light open existing office buildings is to reveal the and adapt the construction methods central atrium. The new building reuses unresolved potential of our existing and technologies to the local climate the distinctive filleted curve geomebuilding stock on optimizing resources conditions, inspired by local traditions. try and a similar palette of materials and supporting the green change in PLH integrates this in developing prochosen white balconies, distinctive society. PRODUCT DESIGN LONGIVETY & ENERGY SAVINGS # CASES PLH’s industrial design team has put Lighting that Saves Energy 'LumiLine' great initiatives in product design that PLH design team developed a new In 2013, the LED technology and the bears modern marks and aims at long series of light fittings for energy saving cone-shaped apertures from LumiStone lasting validity. This is, among other lighting. These innovative light fixtures were transferred unchanged into a designs, shown in the PlanSign series, are produced in collaboration with, and recessed ceiling fixture, called LumiLine. which was designed in 2004 and gained for, major international light manufactuDesign kinship with LumiStone is clear a Cradle to Cradle Certification in 2014. ring companies. even though LumiLine is a flat, oval luminaire. LumiLine was developed for DSV’s new headquarters, where 'LumiStone' Reusable, Long 'PlanSign Series' Cradle to the building’s rounded volumes called Lifespan, High Efficiency Cradle for a ceiling fixture in a similar friendly In April 2012 Philips Lighting launched expression. The fitting was subseThe sign is made of 5 mm aluminum, LumiStone a new LED fixature desigquently also used throughout Alfa in a very flexible design, that allows it ned by PLH (Henning Solfeldt design Laval’s new office in Aalborg. to be combined in countless ways and manager) as the first suspended LED in many different sizes for indoor and fixature that meets current requireoutdoor use. The sign is equipped with ments for office lighting. LumiStone 'Tipi' Solar Cell Lighting the patented magnetic locking system gives a luminous efficiency exceeding The design team is developing an that ensures that it is easy and simple 100 lm / W, which is 30-40% higher than outdoor portable lamp that collects to maintain. PlanSign is the only sign T5 luminaires often used for offices. The energy through a solar panel. The lamp system in the world that is Cradle to fixture is elegant, evocative and energy is easy to dissemble, pack and bring on Cradle certified. In 2014, the manufactuefficient, and is specifically developed outdoor camping trips or to the sumrer DanSign met higher environmental to bring a homely atmosphere into merhouse where there is no electrical standards and increased their certificathe work spaces. It has a unique LEDlight or where it would be ideal to save tion level from Basic to Bronze. PlanSign shielding so the light does not dazzle or energy consumption. The lamp can was previously awarded the internadistract the user. LumiStone is designed function as a light source on balconies tional product design award “iF Design for long life cycling and has a lifespan of in the cities or be used to light up other Award”. approx 17 years by usage of 8 hours a exterior areas as garden tables. day and all materials can be reused by a simple separation of the fixtures parts. “I develop products with common sense in mind. Firstly, the product should be able to get dismantled into individual components when its lifetime has come to an end. Secondly, the materials or components should be reusable. Thirdly, the product should have as sensible an energy consumption as possible“ HENNING SOLFELDT PRODUCT DESIGN MANAGER PLH ARKITEKTER ENVIRONMENTALLY FRIENDLY TECHNOLOGY # CASE BREATHE 55 Recycling of Energy to Improve Better Indoor Air Quality and Energy Efficient Technologies Air Quality in Older Buildings Easier Life for Allergy Sufferers The project was initially sponsored by The existing building stock represent a The unit is ealisy applicable and adapthe Innovation Fund (Fornyelsesfonden) tremendous energy consumption and table to different wall thicknesses. It and one version of the unit is now sponthere is a great potential for reducing ensures basic ventilation of individual sored by the Market Maturation Fund the total energy consumption in refurrooms with high heat recovery effi(Markedsmodningsfonden). A slightly bishments of older buildings. ciency transforming the energy to fresh different version of the unit better air entering the room. It is also possible suited for kitchens and bathrooms is to incorporate filters that make life sponsored by the Danish Public Service Recycling 4/5 of the Energy easier for allergy sufferers and the unit Agency 'Elforsk' which supports Otherwise Lost improves indoor air quality. research in and development of energy PLH has developed a ventilation unit efficient technologies. called Breathe 55, that can recycle 4/5 of the energy in the otherwise lost heat, Operates Automatically 70 units have been tested in a residential area in Kokkedal. The test results are curwhich makes the unit an obvious techniThe unit operates automatically depenrently being analysed and incorporated cal device to use in connection with the ding on the indoor climate. With more into the final design of the unit before it renovation of older buildings. people and high levels of CO2 or humiis put into production. dity in the room, the unit automatically increases the ventilation intensity. SOCIAL SUSTAINABILITY REVITALIZATION # CASE HUNOSØGÅRD Social Sustainability at PLH This means that when we design with Reversing the Depopulation social sustainability in mind we aim At PLH we understand social sustainaThe island of Møn, as many other areas to combine the design of the physical bility as a process for creating sustainain the outskirts of Denmark, suffers realm with design of the social world – ble, successful places that promote from increasing depopulation with a this could be infrastructure to support wellbeing and improve the quality of decrease in commercial activities as a social and cultural life, social amenities, peoples’ lives by understanding what consequence. The project to develop systems for citizen engagement and people need from the places they live Hunosøgård opens up the estate to spaces for people and places to evolve. and work. the public and the local community by creating a cultural center and farmers “Our mission is to improve the New Local Gathering Point market where locals can sell their quality of people's life through The aim of the conversion and expanfoods and products to hotel guests and design. That's why it's especially sion of the estate and mansion of tourists in the area – and where cultural important for us to be part of projHunosøgård is not only to strengthen activities such as exhibitions by local ects like Hunosøgård that not only and increase the number of visitors and artists and outdoor activities can take improve the everyday experience hotel-guests coming to enjoy the unique place. for the immediate users but also nature – but also to make Hunosøgård help create success and better a new local gathering point marking Increasing Local Activities conditions for people in the entire the start of a revitalization of the entire The new Hunosøgård thus helps community “ community. revitalize the community by increasing cultural and commercial activities. SØREN MØLBAK PARTNER, DIRECTOR AND LEAD DESIGNER PLH ARKITEKTER SOCIAL SUSTAINABILITY WORKPLACE # CASE PHARMACOSMOS Workplace design design to the world, we also create setnatural and friendly” feel, open office At PLH workplace we develop environtings for our clients to fulfil their dream with views, natural daylight and high ments for people and organisations to of helping people around the world. quality ergonomic furniture aligns the thrive. This is done from the inside out Pharmacosmos new UK office with the with a focus on the long term perspecPharmacosmos UK Office company’s strong Danish roots. Here, tive to both solutions and overall design. One example of this work is the new UK the Danish culture of dining together is The ability of the physical framework to office for Pharmacosmos. Pharmacosgiven a special place in the new office, adjust and respond to future changes in mos is a global specialist in iron therapy with its informal collaboration lounge, an organisation’s needs is a significant and they develop, manufacture and complete with cafe, long team table and success criterion. market medicines for the treatment of terraced seating. This space is the first As per our holistic approach to architeciron deficiency. area you meet on arrival to the office and ture, human needs and patterns of use functions as a meeting point throughare integrated into the interpretation of The Scandinavian Feel out the day for specialists in the field organizational and real estate strateThroughout the design, patient stories and those concentrating on projects in gies to achieve sustainable workplace are integrated in the daily experience the office. The new office supports the environments. Not only does PLH bring of the office alongside the emphasis on company’s commitment to help people the humanistic approach of Scandinavian team spirit. The welcoming, Scandinaby being people driven, committed to vian inspired design with an “inviting, quality, and innovating for better lives. “We aspire to develop a workspace that on its own ignites desire and ambition to improve care for people living with iron deficiency. A workspace created in the belief that its design and functionality is an extension of our company: our aspiration, our values and our culture.” ANDREAS SIDELMANN CHRISTENSEN MANAGING DIRECTOR UK/IE PHARMACOSMOS SOCIAL SUSTAINABILITY BETTER QUALITY OF LIFE # CASE FIXER ROOMS HALMTORVET “I have to put myself in the place of the users to create an optimal framework for their living and working conditions. This case has been very interesting because the living conditions of drug abusers are so extreme. And it has been inspiring to experience the people who – on a daily basis – are fighting for dignity and decent lives for drug abusers. RIKKE HAUGAARD SEJERSEN LEADING ARCHITECT PLH ARKITEKTER A New Injecting Center supervision of and counseling from medmembers. It’s estimated that approx. in Copenhagen ical staff that can offer first aid as well 500-1000 drug users live in Copenhagen PLH has transformed a former storage as a chance to rest after drug intake, and that the majority will pass through building in the Meatpacking district in acute nursing and counseling on other the center on a daily basis. the central part of Copenhagen into a health services and treatments. Besides medically supervised injecting center. saving lives and create good relationCooperation, Engagement and The center opened to the public on Auships with drug users in order to refer to Involvement gust 15, 2016. It is located at Halmtorvet establish a connection to other services Authorities, politicians and locals pay 17 in the neighborhood of Vesterbro – a and treatments, the aim is to reduce great attention to the new center and very mixed neighborhood populated by inconvenience for the locals while creatthe impact it will have on daily life in the artists, creative businesses, restaurants, ing a safer neighborhood in order attain neighborhood. Because of the special galleries but also an area frequented by a peaceful coexistence of drug abusers nature of the project it’s founded on codrug abusers and afflicted by drug reand the rest of the community. operation, engagement and involvement lated problems and crime. The injecting between different interested parties center is an initiative aimed at improving Architecture Creating Stability, such as health professionals, the local the conditions for the substance abusers Security and Safety community, the local police, the Meatthemselves, but it’s also aimed at diminThe users of the center need a safe and packing District facility department and ishing the problems and the discomfort welcoming place where they encounter the client – the Municipality of Copenrelated to drug-issues for the majority of respect and tolerance. The character of hagen. All parties are part of a Building the people living in the neighborhood. the spaces must therefore give a sense Committee where the entire socioof calmness and discretion without an cultural and health spectrum is repreA Better Life for Drug Users and institutional touch, so the users experisented. PLH has carried out an intensive Reduced Inconveniences for ence stability and security. Safety is a and structured process with the Building the Community key issue for both staff and drug users. Committee and the building’s space The center is open 24/7 and designed Nudging through design and communiprogram has been clarified and adjusted to facilitate the intake of drugs while cation makes it possible to affect user in accordance with the economy. Being staffed by health professionals. The behavior in a positive direction preventable to decode all issues, suggesting purpose is to give drug users a better life ing conflicts and creating more fertile the right solutions and navigate an area and diminish the number of drug related situations and ensuring staff-overview of great public and political attention is deaths and overdoses by assisting with and visual contact with other staff imperative to a project like this. ENERGY EFFICIENCY & SUSTAINABILITY # CASE K29 In the first year after completion the ‘profit’ and ‘planet’ in mind. When PLH Less Need for Power Related to building K29 has been awarded 5 titles. designs with ‘the planet’ in mind it often Cooling and Ventilation One prize was given in late 2016 by The means investing in local, sustainable The façade is an advanced double skin conLithuanian Ministry of Environment for the materials and labor force and designing struction with energy glass and an automost sustainable building in the category structures that promote sustainable mated solar control system. The building innovative buildings. behavior. When we design for ‘people’ has a hybrid ventilation and cooling system it means investing in an attractive and with natural ventilation of office spaces The K29 business center is a major, new healthy workplace ensuring increased with high-sitting openable windows on the landmark in Vilnius built from all natural user satisfaction and wellbeing. And when inner façade and through the atrium skyand mostly local, eco-friendly materials we design with ‘profit’ in mind it means lights as well as ventilation on each floor making it the most eco-friendly building in designing structures that add value for following the newest guidelines. Lithuania to date. K29 sets the standards our clients as well as the users of the new for a healthy and attractive workplace structures. Local Resources in Lithuania. The building is situated on Central to the sustainable design paraKonstitucijos Prospektas (Constitution AvOptimized Energy Savings meters of PLH is using local resources enue) creating a transition area between a K29 is equipped with the newest building and adapting the building complex to the large park area to the north of Vilnius and management system optimizing energy local climate conditions. In the building of the city’s international business area in the savings. It has an efficient water manageK29 local materials, local manufacturers east. ment system and the lighting design is and local contractors have been used created with the newest and most energy to the benefit of the environment, the Holistic Design Approach with efficient components. All meeting rooms, local community and the economy of the ‘People’, ‘Profit’ and ‘Planet’ in ancillary spaces, toilets etc. are equipped project. Mind with light sensors and the lighting design Through a successful integrated design as well as the natural light control system process K29 has been developed and dehas been designed to give the users a signed with the three objectives ‘people’, maximum feeling of wellbeing. DESIGNED FOR PEOPLE # CASE K29 A Building Designed for People Acoustics Design Designing for people and improving the The acoustic design has had a strong quality of life for the users is part of the focus on creating the best auditory overall PLH-approach – and it has been for environment for the users in all areas of many years. PLH was the first architectuthe building. Besides the ceiling tiles and ral company in Denmark to design workcarpets, specially designed core cladding places focusing on learning environments and balcony frontages are important and how the architecture can strengthen elements of the acoustic control. the integration and knowledge sharing between different business areas of a Enhanced Physical Working single company. Environment Design elements like double facades, Maximum Daylight Access an optimal location on the site and a The oval shape of the building with the maximum utilization of daylight are all central atrium and a sloping roof gives opelements that enhance the physical work timal conditions for daylight for all users. environment. K29 is the first atrium office Because of the sloping roof, light flows in building in Lithuania offering a variety of to the atrium most of the day – and users shared settings in a pleasant indoor climaclose to the windows of the inner atrium te all year around – and tenant feedback can look beyond the atrium itself having shows an increased workers satisfaction “We are very proud that K29 visual contact with the cityscape beyond and productivity. recently was awarded best the building. The building thus ensures office building in The Baltics. maximum wellbeing and daylight access K29 was awarded because having no dark areas. the building creates increased worker satisfaction and productivity, improved health, greater flexibility and enhanced energy and environmental performance of the workplace STEEN ENRICO ANDERSEN PARTNER AND LEAD DESIGNER PLH ARKITEKTER THE ENVIRONMENT & IMPROVED INFRASTRUCTURE # CASE RAIL BALTICA, RIGA Creating an Infrastructural Heart The Station Building ities that enhance wayfinding and maintain PLH has been announced the winner of the The focal point of the plan is the iconic orientation in the building landscape. The open International sketch design competistation building that creates a strong visual generous space, reminiscent of ecclesiastition ‘Rail Baltica’ arranged by The European identity in the cityscape strengthening the cal architecture, creates moments of great Railroad Lines, Ltd. The purpose of the sense of Riga as a metropolis. The inspirawonder as travellers enters the building – a competition is to develop the central multition for the design is the archetypal form memorable experience and a recognizable modal public transport hub in the Latvian of historic central stations worldwide – The point of arrival and departure. capital Riga, and to construct the Rail Arch. Baltica railway bridge over The Daugava Bridge & Railway River. The Rail Baltica project is part of the The station building stands as a new The plan contains two new tracks that run European transport network. landmark with eye-catching canopies parallel on the south side of the existing resembling arched fern leaves – aspiring tracks amplifying the clear signage of the “Our proposal delivers a coherent, to the qualities of the Art nouveau period. railway in the cityscape and across the smooth and living infrastructural The sloping roof canopies let light flow river. The bridge is designed with a light hub that connects the city and easily and evenly throughout the building, and floating expression. To maintain the strengthens the existing identity creating a concourse space with an open relation between the new and the old, of Riga” and airy atmosphere. To the North side the the bridge has a varying cross section that canopy lifts allows a unique undisturbed emerges on the underside of the bridge, view over the historic city creating a strong with a rolling, wavy line that refers to large STEEN ENRICO ANDERSEN sense of relation to the city you have just arch construction of the old bridge. The PARTNER AND LEAD DESIGNER arrived in, or are leaving behind. Geometric new bridge is designed with integrated PLH ARKITEKTER features, symmetry and repetition are qualbicycle and pedestrian path that creates THE ENVIRONMENT & IMPROVED INFRASTRUCTURE # CASE RAIL BALTICA, RIGA a better connection along the rails and storm water management and preventing The entire project serves multiple functions across the Daugava. urban heat island effect. as an infrastructural heart that connects the regional with the local, where one can Green Metropolis Connecting the City seamlessly change between modes of One objective of the design is to create The full project comprising the bridge, the transport, train, to bus, car, bike, and as a a denser city with defined squares and overpass and the station, is planned as one public space, an urban living room for both urban places to frame an active city life for coherent infrastructural element with a derecreation and commercial activities. inhabitants, commuters and visitors alike – sign-language that belongs to the language thereby strengthening the sense of Riga as of bridges, as a low scale, continuous wavThe green rampart, the water, the historic a metropolis. An increase in the amount of ing series of arches and vaults – opposed to city and the market are all elements that green in the city creates better urban conthe vertical elements of the city towers. contribute to the strong identity of Riga. ditions and adds sensory experiences and By taking on a holistic approach to traffic an aesthetic dimension to strengthen the “The central station, the conand urban space development we have feeling of affiliation with the city. The new nected station area, and the removed barriers and prioritized public sequences of green urban spaces will also adjacent infrastructure hold transport, pedestrians and cyclist to create act as a new chapter in the development of great potential to be much a more liveable and sustainable city. the city with great respect for the existing more than just infrastructure city and its cultural heritage. At the same – becoming an important city time the added urban nature has the power hub with a strong visual identiSTEEN ENRICO ANDERSEN to remedy climate challenges by creating a ty in the cityscape in a modern PARTNER AND LEAD DESIGNER better micro climate in the city, improving sustainable urban developPLH ARKITEKTER air quality, thermal comfort, biodiversity, ment” SOCIAL SUSTAINABILITY WORKPLACE # CASE MAERSK A Connecting Multi-user Building footprint is distinct with its rounded corSustainability Maersk’s new domicile at Amerika Plads ners, which create lightness, transparency The Danish building authorities’ energy is a multi-user building for 800 staff from and a comfortable, functional flow. The regulations are among some of the toughMaersk. interior expression mirrors the soft exterior est in the world and the increasing interest The building marks its presence with a shape with dynamic and varying spatial exonly leads to stricter, future regulations. striking curved corner towards the busy periences. The focus has been to promote The building is designed with a holistic apKalkbrænderihavnsgade, and likewise the welfare of the employees through the proach, which in sustainable terms gives a towards the inner square behind. Thus crelayout of the building. Across the 6 floors cheaper, greener and healthier operational ating a welcoming meeting with its urban open spaces meanders to create room for building. The sustainable aspects include a context where residential, office, retail and cafés, breakand meeting places near the compact building mass, daylight through restaurant activities blend together. stairs and office spaces in the periphery of the big atrium, visual connection throughthe building. The ground floor is disposed out the building, optimized floor plans and Building Concept with a reception, meeting rooms and a circulation as well as being flexible and enThe building is perceived as a carefully canteen. The proceeding floors are arabling departments to expand more freely. designed object with a clear and simple ranged with associated communal facilities. modern expression. The roughly quadratic Changing rooms and technical spaces can be found in the basement. Compact Building Visual Connection Circulation Flexibility Reduced facade area Creates a visible Main staircase in atrium High degree of flexibility More energy efficient connection Circulation without ‘dead between departments, Supports ‘one company’ ends’ which are able to expand in Universal contact with Only three cores > good two directions and around atrium orientation / wayfinding corners. PLH GLOBAL COMPACT AMBITION 2017/2018 PLH is proud to be a member of Global Upholding a humanistic and collegial We will aim at creating sustainable, sucCompact. In the year ahead we will working style, high employee involvecessful places that promote wellbeing continue to seek opportunities to supment, stress prevention and creating and improve the quality of peoples’ port and enact the 10 principles. a responsible working environment lives by understanding what people where human diversity is recognized, need from the places they live and In particular, we aim to show built will continue to be very significant work. works that demonstrate more extenfactors for the office. Furthermore, we sive and measurable outcomes in the will continue to recruit solely on proven Through research, innovation and area of environment. competencies and experiences not cooperation with manufactures, instituregarding gender, nationality, religion, tions and clients we will continually age or other discriminating criteria. strive to develop and diffuse sustainHuman Rights able solutions, environmentally friendly We will also continue to demand that technologies and new sustainable collaborators, business partners, supstructures that underpin and promote We will continue our membership pliers and others we have business environmentally responsible behavior. of DANSKE ARK, continue to follow dealings with, will respect and uphold DANSKE ARK’S instructions, guidelines the freedom of association, recognize Anti-Corruption and contractual standards. PLH will the right to collective bargaining, continue to follow Danish legislation as support the elimination of all forms of well as respecting national and interforced and compulsory labour and child national legislation and human rights labour and support the elimination of We will continue to work against conventions. discrimination in respect of employcorruption in all its forms and avoid ment and occupation. nepotism, exchanges of favors, unofIn addition we will continue to demand ficial agreements between companies that collaborators, business partners, and other forms of bribery aiming for Environment suppliers and whoever we have busiclarity in all our business agreements. ness dealings with both in Denmark and abroad will respect national and international legislation and human PLH will continue to support the rights conventions. principles 7, 8 and 9 of The UN Global Compact as an integral part of our day to day actions and creative processes. Labour We will continue to design sustainable solutions and structures that support and promote sustainable behavior – We will continue our membership and continue to promote sustainable of DANSKE ARK, continue to follow solutions to our clients. DANSKE ARK’S instructions, guidelines and contractual standards. PLH will Our central purpose is to improve the continue to follow Danish legislation on quality of peoples’ lives and we will labour standards and will continue to continue to design with the 3 objecdissociate ourselves from all forms of tives ‘People’, ‘Profit’ and ‘Planet’ (A discrimination. triple bottom line) in mind. The triple bottom line-approach ensures sustainIn addition, we will continue to invest able design that also betters the lives in the working environment making of the users while at the same time PLH Arkitekter an attractive workplace improving conditions for the client. retaining and attracting the best.
