Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2016 UN Global Compact Nilfisk wishes to protect the environment, safeguard human and labour rights, and work against corruption Letter from Executive Management In 2016, Nilfisk celebrated its 110th anniversary. Across the world, We are pledged to be at the forefront of the professional we marked the celebration of 110 years of knowledge and cleaning equipment industry, constantly challenging ourselves to technical insight that began with the company’s very first electric improve our products and provide the best possible experience vacuum cleaner and now inspires advanced GPS tracking systems for our customers. The competitiveness of our business is based and new upcoming autonomous cleaning solutions. Nilfisk has on a continuous effort by us to develop, employ and promote developed and expanded through knowledge, and Nilfisk’s increasingly environmental-friendly products and processes aligned activities have become increasingly global. with customer requirements. Further, we believe that environmental issues go hand in hand with health, safety and quality. Throughout its life Nilfisk has been an innovative company and one that has always acted responsibly. Our vast experience makes To be in constant development and forever challenging ourselves us able to offer a wide range of high-quality and fully supported also means setting the bar for our business partners. Thus, one cleaning solutions that help people and businesses all over the of our goals is to urge all our major suppliers to comply with world to increase their productivity. There is little doubt that, when the principles of the UN Global Compact. We established last it comes to responsible business conduct, respect and proactive year a Social Supplier Audit Unit within our global procurement behavior are essential in a long-term perspective for a company department. As a result, 82% of our largest suppliers now declare like ours. compliance with the UN Global Compact. We believe that the adoption of the UN Global Compact In 2016, the company’s fundamental policy mechanism, our Code with respect to human & labor rights, anti-corruption and the of Ethics, was revised and superseded by a Business Code of environment will help us in our efforts to keep developing our Conduct. The vision is to establish a strong compliance mindset business in a positive direction and at the same time address the throughout our company by ensuring the implementation of this growing demand from customers and regulators. At Nilfisk we Business Code of Conduct. thus continue to support the UN Global Compact as a governing principle in our sustainability efforts. The present report is our Our work with corporate responsibility continues, and we are communication to the UN on the progress of these efforts. The aware that positive results will be achieved through continued, report also outlines Nilfisk’s performance on corporate social step-by-step development. The journey will continue in 2017 responsibility and diversity in relation to Articles 99a and 99b of as we maintain our ambition of enabling sustainable cleaning the Danish Financial Statements Act related to corporate social worldwide to improve quality of life. responsibility and diversity. Executive Management of Nilfisk 2 CSR Report 2015-2016 Nilfisk Nilfisk at a glance Nilfisk is one of the world’s leading suppliers of professional Sales entities in cleaning equipment. The company was founded in 1906 on a vision of producing and selling products of the highest quality worldwide. For more than a hundred years Nilfisk has responded 45 to the changing needs of markets and customers, supplying innovative cleaning products and solutions to businesses and countries homes around the world. Over the years, acquisitions have been made to strengthen our footprint. With 5,600 people working across sales companies in 45 countries and production sites in 9 countries, we collectively carry with us a strong heritage of more than 100 years of cleaning expertise. 5,600 employees Business model Nilfisk’s mission is to “enable sustainable cleaning worldwide to end. Through Accelerate, Nilfisk seeks to grow market share by improve quality of life”, and our business model consists of the targeting lucrative market opportunities, including driving the following key elements: following key initiatives: • Understanding customer requirements • Strengthen front-end • Translating customer requirements into attractive products • Drive competitive offerings and solutions • Build strong brands • Efficiently manufacturing these products, including through • Power supply chain performance efficient sourcing of components • Agile and commercial organization • Effectively and efficiently selling our products and solutions directly to end-customers or our dealers • Efficiently distributing products to our customers • Providing Aftermarket services, including parts and accessories, and service, to our customers • Managing our business in a structured manner, including providing the necessary staff functions to deliver support and follow-up on our business Accelerate In 2016, Nilfisk announced a new operating model which was Growing our company to lead the industry transformed into a new organizational structure. The new Grow structure is intended to realize the full potential of the company’s market share ambitious growth strategy, Accelerate, and to better align the company with customer needs. Strengthen Drive competitive Build strong Power Titled Accelerate+, the transition supports the execution of front-end offerings brands supply chain performance Accelerate, which is focused on growing our market share to lead the industry and features a number of initiatives to this Agile and commercial organisation Nilfisk CSR Report 2015-2016 3 Our Business Code of Conduct In 2016, Nilfisk implemented a revised Code of Ethics entitled The Business Code of Conduct describes our policies on the Business Code of Conduct. This instrument expresses our following topics: commitment to promote behavioral standards and accountability • Anti-corruption throughout the company. It describes the fundamental principles • Environment, energy & climate and rules governing the way we act internally and in relation to • Fair competition external stakeholders. • Human & labor rights • Information security All employees must comply with the Business Code of Conduct • Product compliance & quality and are expected to live our core values. The Business Code of Conduct helps employees in their daily business-related decisionThe vision is to establish a strong compliance mindset throughout making and interaction both internally and externally. To facilitate the company by ensuring that the Business Code of Conduct is compliance we have implemented a company-wide training guide implemented and that relevant employees are duly trained in key available in 13 languages. Going forward, new recruits will be compliance activities by 2020. Furthermore, an updated thirdintroduced to our Business Code of Conduct, and employees must party compliance program will be developed in the years ahead. be retrained every two years. The contractual obligations of vendors and business partners will be ensured until the finalization of this program. The Business Code of Conduct focuses on the entire value chain how we conduct business in all parts of our organization. It CSR risks and focus points is based on our core values and takes them to the next level Nilfisk operates in many different countries and markets which demonstrating our values in action. leads to a number of risks. Some of the principal risks include that we operate in countries where there are cases of violation of Nilfisk’s core values are: human and labor rights, corruption and bribery, and where the • Customers – we are customer-driven environmental focus is not very high. At Nilfisk we have not had • People – we know people make the difference any cases of violation reported in 2016, but since it is identified • Performance – we want to win risks in some of our markets it is something that has our highest • Professionalism – we do things right attention and which we monitor. • Quality – we stand for reliability In 2016 we have especially been focusing on anti-corruption and Our core values are principles that guide the way we behave and our business partners, which is further detailed in specific sections. interact. They are the basic elements of how we go about our work. They are the practices we use every day in everything we do. At Nilfisk the future plan is to keep up the good work regarding risk assessment and we plan to expand the work in the coming years. 4 CSR Report 2015-2016 Nilfisk CSR policies To ensure top-level commitment and local anchoring, the local punishable and can result in severe consequences for both Nilfisk managements of all Nilfisk entities are obliged to sign a personal and the employees involved. As a company, we refrain from and Statement of Representation on the principles of the UN Global oppose corruption and bribery. Compact. The individual statements are then consolidated and signed by the CEO of Nilfisk. No employees may directly or indirectly offer, give or accept money or anything else of value in connection with business Our policies, actions, goals and plans in respect of the following dealings in order to obtain an improper advantage. topics are presented in the sections below: This is also stated in our anti-corruption policy, which was • Anti-corruption and bribery implemented company-wide via an awareness campaign and • Human & labor rights training in 2016. • Environment, energy & climate In line with our updated Compliance Landscape, our goals, actions and future plans have been reviewed and revised. Anti-corruption and bribery Fairness is at the heart of the way we do business. Corruption, in all its forms, creates unfair competition, damages innovation and undermines our integrity. Furthermore, such activities are GOALS AND ACTIONS 2016 OUTCOME Update anti-corruption policy and ensure implementation. An updated anti-corruption policy covering all employees has been established as part of our new Business Code of Conduct. An extensive company-wide implementation program has been conducted and employees have been trained in our overall anti-corruption approach. FUTURE PLANS, GOALS AND ACTIONS TARGETS 2017+ Develop and implement an extended anti-corruption proAll employees exposed to corruption risks to be further gram targeting high-risk areas/employees. trained and equipped to handle risk situations. Minimize the risk of direct or indirect corruption involveReview and update our third-party compliance processes in ment. relation to anti-corruption. Nilfisk CSR Report 2015-2016 5 Environment, energy and climate Nilfisk has focus on delivering sustainable cleaning solutions to Furthermore, we involve employees in campaigns and ensure that our customers. For us, this means ensuring effectiveness and local managers can identify significant environmental issues. Such productivity and reducing the total cost of operation. We develop issues will be addressed by making action plans going forward. cleaning products that work efficiently while using less energy, less water and less detergent. Reducing costs for our customers In 2016, we primarily measured our environmental performance whilst simultaneously improving our environmental performance via the following parameters: is a key element in our sustainability approach. We call it: Green • Fuel for heating Meets Clean. We strive to overcome this challenge both through • Fuel for cars our technology development program and through product • Electricity innovation, e.g. The Horizon program announced in 2016. • Water consumption • Transport of goods The Horizon Program • Transport of employees by air The Horizon program is a pioneering global program that will deliver intelligent and connected cleaning solutions, giving This year, measurement of environmental performance has customers greater control, more flexibility and fundamentally been based on absolute figures for 2016, not figures relative to changing the way they clean. 2015. This is because we consider it necessary to set a baseline from which to establish future environmental targets. Instead For more than a century Nilfisk has led the way in developing of measuring CO2 emissions, we measure consumption in new technologies that deliver cleaning excellence. With The absolute terms, since this is what we have an influence on. We Horizon program, Nilfisk is redefining the industry with a longcan influence the amount of oil we consume, but not the type term, strategic, program of multiple product launches. These new of energy source available in many of the countries in which we products will provide the full spectrum of autonomous capabilities, operate. enabling customers to experience self-operating, driverless cleaning options that meet their every need and redefine our view The European Engineering Industries Association of productivity and total cost of ownership. Nilfisk plays an important role in external bodies like the European Engineering Industries Association, EUnited. We wish to push the The first product in The Horizon program, an autonomous boundaries and lead the industry. By working to set the bar as scrubber dryer, will be launched in spring 2017. high as possible Nilfisk ensures the highest possible standard for innovation, not just at Nilfisk, but throughout the industry. This will Reducing environmental footprint benefit people, the environment and investors worldwide. We strive to ensure appropriate environmental management systems consistent with our activities. We work towards reducing We believe in objectifying standards for the cleaning equipment environmental footprint when developing new products and industry. This because as long as we do not have similar units towards ensuring sustainable disposal of life-expired equipment. for product standards it is difficult to measure the environmental We conduct our business in a manner that aims to improve the as well as the technological progress. We are therefore now environment, prevents pollution and promotes efficient use of engaged on developing objective standards for the cleaning energy, materials and water. equipment industry, and we have dedicated work and resources to help raise the industry standards for cleaning equipment and We handle waste conscientiously in an environmentally safe bring transparency to customers. Participating actively in industrymanner and employ recycling programs to minimize waste related activities, boards and committees enables us to push for an disposal volumes. agreement on industry standards to measure the environmental performance of cleaning products. This effort has a secondary To ensure our commitment and compliance we: effect of reducing product environmental footprint. • Regularly monitor changes in environmental and energy legislation By introducing objective standards we will achieve a baseline from • Control environmental impacts from production plants which in future we can measure whether we have made real • Continuously improve the utilization of our resources environmental savings regarding our different products. • Work to reduce the risk of pollution and accidents 6 CSR Report 2015-2016 Nilfisk Examples of EUnited initiatives include: High-pressure washer boiler efficiency standard: Nilfisk participated actively in defining and promoting the certification scheme, pushing for a quantitative instead of qualitative certification. Nilfisk is an advocate of more efficient solutions and was the first company to specify the efficiency rating on its equipment Floorcare scrubber performance standard: Years ago Nilfisk realized the need for objective performance standards and initiated work in several areas. One result is a performance standard for scrubbers that has been adopted by the EUnited certification scheme as a qualitative standard. The organization members have now agreed to initiate step two, a quantitative standard Energy-related Products (ErP) regulation: After analyzing the ErP Eco design regulation in relation to commercial vacuum cleaners, EUnited and the commercial cleaning equipment industry have ErPs are assessed by the EU Commission in terms of their concluded that the current standard does not reflect a commercial environmental impact and energy consumption. The underlying usage pattern. Nilfisk has therefore been commissioned to Eco design regulations outline minimum energy efficiency develop a new performance testing standard for commercial requirements for individual product groups, while the vacuums in order to create better alignment between energycorresponding energy labels help consumers choose the most saving and cleaning performance energy-efficient products. GOALS AND ACTIONS 2016 OUTCOME Update environment, energy & climate policy and ensure An updated environment, energy & climate policy coverimplementation. ing all employees has been established as part of our new Business Code of Conduct. An extensive company-wide implementation program has been conducted. Zero fines for non-compliance with environmental laws and No fines reported since 2013. regulations. FUTURE PLANS, GOALS & ACTIONS TARGETS 2017AND GOING FORWARD Conduct an in depth analysis at global level to clearly Determine which aspects are significant and should be identify environmental aspects. addressed as a priority by our environmental management system. Develop and implement future targets for the most effecIn spring 2017, based on insights, prepare new and more tive and valuable environmental benefits. customized indicators and KPIs for managing our environmental impact. Nilfisk CSR Report 2015-2016 7 Human and labor rights The skills, expertise and dedication of our employees are our In 2016, we fell short of our target of less than 5.5 accidents greatest assets. They are the people who create value for per 1 million working hours, the total number of work-related customers, and they are the people who constantly strive to accidents the same as last year. At selected sites we have achieve the highest possible industry standards for the benefit of established an EHS system and have consequently implemented a both customers and environment. It is therefore imperative that large number of corrective actions. Next year we expect to report a we provide safe and healthy workplaces for our employees across positive outcome from this targeted approach, the world. We respect and comply with applicable laws, regulations, In accordance with our policy (stated in our Business Code of international human rights principles and international labor Conduct) Nilfisk provides a healthy and safe work environment standards as defined by the UN Universal Declaration of Human by creating a workplace which prevents and manages physical Rights and by the International Labour Organisation’s Declaration and psychological injuries. All employees are committed to on Fundamental Principles and Rights of Work. continuously identify and mitigate hazards in order to prevent work-related injuries. Working in accordance with certified safety Nilfisk is firmly committed to providing equal opportunity to its management systems we improve our processes and develop employees and will not tolerate discrimination or harassment of a culture of safe behavior with the ambition of achieving zero any kind. Further, we respect data privacy laws and regulations accidents. regarding all our employees. GOALS AND ACTIONS 2016 OUTCOME Update human & labor rights policy and ensure implemenAn updated human and labor rights policy covering all emtation. ployees has been established as part of our new Business Code of Conduct. An extensive company-wide implementation program has been conducted. GOALS AND ACTIONS 2016 TARGET ACHIEVED STATUS Improved performance with a short-term goal of less than < 5.5 8.8 Not achieved 5.5 accidents per 1 million working hours. The long-term goal is zero accidents. 8 CSR Report 2015-2016 Nilfisk Diversity In line with our core values, our aim is to be a responsible Nilfisk’s senior management consists of 45 persons comprising employer by embracing diversity and a global culture, and 20 different nationalities. Gender distribution in the top by sustaining a healthy and safe working environment. We management is uneven, but two of the three women perceive diversity as a key asset, and as stated in our Business representatives in senior management at Nilfisk are also Code of Conduct we are firmly committed to providing members of the Executive Management. Age distribution equal opportunity to our employees and will not tolerate is spread fairly widely, but the 40-54 year age group is overdiscrimination of any kind. represented. In 2016 Nilfisk follows the NKT Group policy on diversity in upper management. At NKT board level a target of 17% has been set for the >54 25-39 proportion of the under-represented gender among AGMelected members. This target was reached in 2016. In order to promote equal opportunity for both sexes to attain senior positions, the following actions have been implemented: AGE DISTRIBUTION • Demand that recruitment firms and headhunters include both sexes in the field of candidates for senior positions. 40-54 • Annually monitor the development in diversity, including gender distribution, in the Group’s most senior levels of management. • Increase the focus placed on career plans at the annual performance appraisals held with employees who are Future plans potential managers. To ensure dialogue and foster commitment and engagement we will conduct an employee engagement survey in 2017. In a traditionally male-dominated industry, the main area for Furthermore, we want to establish and implement a policy improvement is to achieve more balanced gender composition and associated targets for the provision of a more balanced at all organizational levels. A key action in 2016 was to representation of gender in Nilfisk’s senior management as well communicate these principles clearly to the organization as part as for the rest of Nilfisk management. of our Code of Conduct training. Nilfisk CSR Report 2015-2016 9 Vendors & business partners As part of a general due diligence process related to acquisitions, Requirements specifically for our suppliers entities set to become part of Nilfisk are screened for human/ Another priority area is to ensure that our suppliers conform to labor rights (primarily general compliance and employee practices), Nilfisk standards and observe the UN Global Compact principles, environmental compliance and anti-corruption, based on an overall which are fully integrated in our standard contracts. In 2015 we risk assessment for the specific company and jurisdiction. Unless achieved 71% compliance with UN Global Compact among our the transaction is very significant in volume, this process primarily largest suppliers. In 2016 we have improved our work in this regard takes place through management interviews and review of e.g. and now 82% of our largest suppliers declare compliance with the employee contracts. In general, our purchase agreements require UN Global Compact. We will continue our efforts in 2017. vendors to warrant compliance with the above CSR principles. The Social Supplier Audit Unit in our Global Procurement Nilfisk has made two acquisitions in 2016, and these entities were department was established in 2015. Our program interacts duly screened for human/labor rights as described above. No proactively with the supplier and assists the supplier with learning issues were determined. and adopting the UN Global Compact principles in all areas, if not already fully implemented. Based on a risk assessment we Our ambition for the future is to continue to consider human and perform audits in selected high-risk areas. In 2016 the outcome labor rights issues, environmental compliance and anti-corruption of the Social Supplier Audit focus on our Chinese suppliers was risk assessments in incoming mergers and acquisition processes; very positive, improving UN Global Compact compliance rate and we will also work on developing a compliance framework for creating significantly more transparency in our suppliers’ behavior vendors and business partners. in conforming to UN Global Compact principles. GOALS AND ACTIONS 2016 OUTCOME Expand our whistleblower system to also enable reporting Anyone at or associated with Nilfisk, as well as external by external stakeholders. business partners, may report actual or potentially serious concerns. Run an internal awareness campaign supporting the right In autumn 2016 we completed an international awareness to speak out. campaign relating to our Business Code of Conduct. The campaign included training in how to use the whistleblower system. GOALS AND ACTIONS 2016 TARGET ACHIEVED STATUS At end-2016, 80% of procurement (above EUR 50.000 in 80% 82% achieved value) to be supplied by partners agreeing to abide by UN Global Compact principles. The UN Global Compact principles are an integral part 100% 100% achieved of Nilfisk’s M&A due diligence process and any nonconformities are reported. 10 CSR Report 2015-2016 Nilfisk Whistleblower system Our whistleblower system enables employees to report cases of corruption and other unlawful incidents. Such reports are dealt with by an independent party. All incidents filed during the reporting period were assigned top priority and have been discussed and dealt with by the NKT and Nilfisk Group Managements. All whistleblower reports have been carefully studied and relevant actions taken. None of the reports submitted in the reporting period necessitated material adjustments in business procedures. Reporting Principles Nilfisk deploys three key elements or monitoring progress on external stakeholders to raise concerns about seemingly corporate social responsibility: inappropriate conduct, events or circumstances. Facility exists for reporting in a number of languages 1. Relevant Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) have been developed based on our policies, and corresponding data Change of reporting period are collected. The reporting period for the CSR report has been aligned with Nilfisk’s financial reporting and now follows the calendar year. 2. An annual Statement of Representation on Corporate Social Responsibility, signed by local managers in the Auditing business unit. The present report was not audited by an independent auditor. 3. A whistleblower system, maintained by an external provider, which allows all Nilfisk employees as well as Nilfisk CSR Report 2015-2016 11 Nilfisk A/S Kornmarksvej 1 DK-2605 Brøndby Denmark Tel.: +45 43 23 81 00 Fax: +45 43 43 77 00 mail.com@nilfisk.com www.nilfisk.com Member of the NKT Group Photos: Courtesy of Nilfisk. Copyright: NKT, 2017
