Cover photos and pictures Featured on the front and back covers of this report are lively snapshots of Nidec employees jolly-looking children and pictures drawn by them, 2017 capturing their happy little moments of harmonious contact with nature. CSR Report The Nidec Group envisions a sustainable future where a harmonious balance between nature and human activities safeguards the interests of children and generations beyond. Contributing to the world by making products that spin and move Please send inquiries to: 338 Kuzetonoshiro-cho, Minami-ku, CSR Promotion Office Kyoto 601-8205, Japan Email: csr@nidec.com This brochure is printed on FSC®-certified paper using vegetable oil ink and http://www.nidec.com /en-Global / Tel: +81-75-935-6550 Fax: +81-75-935-6141 a waterless printing process to reduce our impact on the global environment. From Our Chairman Electric motors power just about every present-day spinning/moving mechanism to make our lives easier, more convenient and comfortable. In the meantime, however, they could have a significant impact on the global environment due to their large power consumption, which, some estimate, comprises approximately half of all the power generated in the world. Over the years, Nidec has contributed to reducing global power consumption and CO2 emissions through the energy efficiency of its motors and related products as the world’s leading comprehensive motor manufacturer. Going forward, we will continue to make a difference by opening up a whole new level of efficiency, enabled through tighter integration of our industry-leading motor-drive expertise with advanced controllability and connectivity. Slowly yet constantly, we are poised to evolve into a “global comprehensive electromechanical device manufacturer” that is capable of bringing solutions to global issues a step closer. Staying Competitive as a Socially Desirable Business Even 100 Years from Now Solving the World’s Issues Mission Statement In August 2015, we participated in the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) as part of efforts to take our CSR practices to new heights. In this initiative, we are committed to practicing the UNGC’s 10 universally accepted principles in the four areas of human rights, labor, the environment, and anti-corruption, promising to be Nidec Corporation’s mission is to contribute actively involved in the UN-advocated development goals. In such areas as to the development of society and welfare anti-climate change measures, economic development of emerging economies of the general public around the world. afflicted with power shortage, and improving poverty-stricken people’s living standards, Nidec will provide solutions indispensable for people’s lives and for the Nidec aims to do so by supplying the highest future of the global environment. quality products. Our company is sincerely and enthusiastically dedicated to the trinity Achieving high job satisfaction and economic development of technology, expertise, and modern science. While evolving as a solutions company, we will improve our productivity per employee Thereby, Nidec strives to promote the to the level of quality companies in Europe and the United States. Achieving this target requires us to make necessary capital and educational investments based on prosperity of our society, our company, our plan, and we will commit to investing for these purposes. Individual employees and all our employees. will, I hope, be able to achieve excellent results within a limited time, and use the time saved to spend on their private lives, skill improvement, etc., to become even more productive people with extensive knowledge. It is crucial for Nidec and its employees to grow together, for the company to stay competitive as a socially desirable company, even 100 years from now. June 2017 Shigenobu Nagamori Chairman of the Board, President & Chief Executive Officer（CEO） 01 Nidec CSR Report 2017 Nidec CSR Report 2017 02 About us The Nidec Group Seeks to Become a World-leading Company Since its foundation in 1973, Nidec has been providing the world ■ Sales mix by product category with indispensable products to improve the quality of people’s Employment lives, while developing industries as the world’ s leading stability based Other products Small precision motors comprehensive motor manufacturer. on sustainable At the same time, we have achieved dramatic growth, both business through organic growth and by expanding our fields of business growth using active M&A as a driver. Today, Nidec offers a wide variety of motors ranging from Basic micro-size to super-large, as well as application products and Management services in IT, office automation, home appliances, automobiles, HDD motors Available supply Creed Pursuit of the commercial and industrial systems, environment and energy, and of highest quality, top leader position many other businesses. indispensable, and in each of the In striving to be a world-leading company, Nidec will continue to widely desired products Other products company's 15.8% take up challenges. for the common chosen paths Shutters for Industrial robots Drive motors Vibration good of all digital cameras motors Small precision motors Consolidated net sales 36.5% Appliance, commercial, and industrial products 1,199.3 billion yen 25.9% （for FY2016） Automotive products 21.8% ■ Business sites Europe, Air conditioner Blade pitch Traction Millimeter wave Electric power Adjustable Middle East & Africa motors control motors motors radar units steering (EPS) motors water pumps North America 81 Group companies Japan 26 Group companies Appliance, commercial, and industrial products Automotive products 27 11,274 employees Group 3,463 employees companies 8,728 employees CONTENTS Asia & Oceania 01 From Our Chairman S／ Society 144 Central & 03 The Nidec Group Seeks to 17 Diversity & Training Employees to Work Globally Group South America Become a World-leading Company 19 companies 19 Responsibility for the Entire Value Chain Group 05 For Our Future 75,763 employees companies 7,834 employees 07 The CSR That Nidec Seeks to Achieve G／ Governance E／ Environment 20 For More Reliable Business Management 09 Environmental Contributions through Our Products 297 Group companies with 107,062 employees as of March 31, 2017 13 Environmental Burden Reduction & Natural Environment Conservation through Our Business 21 Action Album 22 Corporate Profile, About CSR Report 2017, and Editor's Note 15 SDGs & My Vision 03 Nidec CSR Report 2017 Nidec CSR Report 2017 04 Nidec's Vision For Our Future The Nidec Group creates and delivers to the world revolutionary solutions that contribute to the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), a set of initiatives that the international community addresses together. Achieving the SDGs In September 2015, the “United Nations Sustainable Development Summit” was held at the UN Headquarters in New York, where 193 member nations unanimously adopted the “2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development to Transform Our World,” and set 17 goals (Sustainable Development Goals, or SDGs) as important guidelines for the international community to eliminate poverty by 2030 and realize a sustainable society. Goal 7 Goal 9 Goal 12 Goal 13 Realizing the SDGs urgently requires efforts not only of nations and local governments, but also of private businesses and civic communities. Ensure access to Build resilient Ensure sustainable Take urgent action to The Nidec Group is determined to evolve into a solutions company that supports people’s lives and the global environment with its products affordable, reliable, infrastructure, promote consumption and combat climate change that “spin and move” through the achievement of our mid-term strategic goal Vision 2020. We deliver to the world solutions that realize the sustainable and modern sustainable production patterns. and its impacts. energy for all. industrialization and foster SDGs, with a special focus on four of those goals that are deeply related to its businesses. (See the top portion of Page 6) innovation. Sustainable Development Goals (definition provided by the United Nations Department of Public Information) ● “Sustainable development” is defined as “development that meets the needs of the present without compromising the ability of We will contribute to achieving these SDGs by 2030. future generations to meet their own needs”; and ● Realizing sustainable development essentially requires the three main elements, “economic development,” “social acceptance,” and “environmental protection.” Autonomous driving ● Driving motor ● Automotive camera Millimeter wave radar EV/PHEV ● ● Electric power steering (EPS) Drones motor (Electric Vehicle/ ● Next-generation brake and Plug-in Hybrid Electric Vehicle) ● Propeller motor other systems motors ● Driving motor ● Motor control unit ● Various motors (for EPSs, ● Optical shake correction next-generation brakes, seat device adjustors, sunroofs, power ● Wireless navigation device windows, etc.) Technologies that Robotics H M I *2 ● Liquid crystal glass substrate connect us and （Human-Machine Interface） the future ● Voice-recognition artificial transfer robot intelligence ● Semiconductor wafer transfer ● Tactile device robot The Nidec Group's Products ● Vibration motor and its system ● Multiple-joint arm robot ● Joint motor and reducer * With a focus on voice and and Services in major ﬁelds of tactile interfaces Using Solar Power to Bring Water to Agricultural Land in India innovative technologies India, where more than 40% of the labor population engages in agriculture, has a major issue: There is not enough water for irrigation. In this country, approximately 35 million pumps are used to draw underground water to the land surface, and Smart factories IoT *1 （Internet of Things） approximately 27 million of those pumps are electric, consuming nearly 20% of India’s electricity. The remainder, diesel pumps, ● Wi-Fi access point ● IoT G/W (gateway) require farmers to obtain fuel for them, while causing the problem of releasing CO2 and air-polluting substances into the ● Data collection and ● Factory AP (Wi-Fi access point) AI accumulation system atmosphere. Based on Indian Prime Minister Modi’s request to Nidec in ● Big data analysis system ● Data collection and （Artificial Intelligence） accumulation system 2014, Nidec has been developing and distributing high-performance, ● Automating function ● Data analysis system ● Data collection sensor ● Smart press (press machines solar-powered irrigation pumps systems that use our high-efficiency with a self-maintenance motor, IoT, and other technologies and knowhow. By working to function) ● Smart machine (autonomous over-come such issues as fluctuation of power supply due to climatic machine) changes, stabilizing the performance of motors that are installed as ● Factory process management deeply as 50 – 100 meters underground, and controlling the amount of water released from the pumps to be optimal for agricultural crops, we Nidec's first solar pump system installed Nidec s second solar pump system installed will stay committed to developing India’s agriculture. in an Indian state-owned farm in an Indian state-owned farm *1 IoT (Internet of Things): An online network of all interconnected objects. *2 HMI (Human Machine Interface): A general term for things such as devices and software, through which humans exchange information with machines. 05 Nidec CSR Report 2017 Nidec CSR Report 2017 06 Nidec's CSR From Our CSR Officer The CSR That Nidec Aims to Achieve As Nidec grows larger, as a company aiming to achieve its FY2020 net sales target of 2 trillion yen and 10 trillion yen thereafter, so does its corporate social responsibility (CSR). With motors consuming, according to some estimates, approximately half of all the electricity Nidec's CSR (corporate social responsibility) comprises business activities that aim to conscientiously generated in the world, we as the world’s leading comprehensive motor manufacturer that create products and technologies that contribute to society as well as far-sighted activities that benefit supplies any and all kinds of energy-saving motors, intend to contribute to society through our business activities first and foremost. In addition, our CSR comprises the sincerity with which we local communities. conduct our business, and our outside-work social contributions. Our CSR contributes to the world by making products that spin and move and that support a bright and In 2015, the United Nations adopted “Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs)” for 2030. These prosperous future. goals depict in detail how the world should be in the future, in 17 different areas. These are the goals that nations and regions in the world should share with one another, and accordingly we, as a company engaging in business widely around the world, need to thoroughly understand the goals’ importance. Aiming to achieve our target net sales of 10 trillion yen, we intend to integrate our core, driving Akira Sato technology nurtured on our motor production, with control, communications, and other new Executive Vice President and technologies, to evolve into a “global comprehensive electromechanical device manufacturer that Chief Financial Oﬃcer (CFO) solves issues facing the world.” Thus, Nidec will achieve its CSR with each of its employees contemplating and accumulating what he/she can do to create both social values and economic ones for the company’s growth. Your continued understanding and advice will truly be appreciated. Staying Competitive as a Socially Desirable Business Even 100 Years from Now Under the new CSR Vision 2020, formulated based on the Vision 2020 medium-term strategic goal launched in CSR Vision FY2016, we execute actions in eight areas of focus. These were selected from the three categories of the 2020 environment, society, and governance (ESG). These themes were selected based on the levels of expectation and request for them, based on our dialogue with our customers, business partners, local communities, governments, employees, shareholders, civic communities, and other stakeholders, as well as on their level of importance identified in our internal survey based on the Nidec Group’s corporate structure, business philosophies, strategies, etc. Global Environment Employees Priority Issues Target KPI Consistent reduction in energy Contributing to the World by Environmental 5% reduction (intensity) from consumptions and environmental Shareholders Customers load reduction emissions attributable to operations FY2015 benchmark Making Products That Spin and Move E Environmental Quantitative assessment of Overall framework in place for measuring contribution product-specific total CO 2 emissions reduced per year Local Supply Chain Communities through products environmental performance Partners Environment Environmental Active participation in local Specific action program in place at conservation environmental conservation efforts each business unit Business Activities Specific action program in place at Diversity A diverse workforce and leadership S each business unit Activities as a Member of Local Communities Globally Training programs in place on Number of program participants or Society competent talents a group-wide basis workshops held Basic Management Creed Code of Conduct aligned with EICC *-based CSR management system Corporate ethics Employment stability based on sustainable business growth internationally accepted standards covering 80% of operations worldwide G Available supply of highest quality, indispensable, and widely desired products for the common good of all Strict compliance with Consistent management soundness Internal control internationally accepted Pursuit of the top leader position in each of the company's chosen paths and transparency corporate governance guidelines Governance Highly viable risk management Global risk management system Risk management procedures implemented on adopted by all operations a global basis *EICC (Electronics Industry Code of Conduct): Internationally recognized standards for socially responsible business practices published by the Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition for an entire supply chain’s business activities, comprising five sections: labor, health and safety, environmental practices, ethics, and management systems. 07 Nidec CSR Report 2017 Nidec CSR Report 2017 08 Environment Environmental Contributions through Our Products Providing High-efficiency, Energy-saving Motors Automotive Motors EPS Motors The key to curbing automobile-generated CO 2 emissions is to suppress engine load to improve fuel efficiency. It is in this regard that many automobile manufacturers in the world promote the use of the EPS (electric power steering) system, which, compared with the hydraulic power steering system, improves fuel efficiency by approximately 5%. DCT Motors A trend is emerging in Europe and China where the DCT (dual clutch transmission) system, DCT motor EPS motor which is as operable as the AT (automatic transmission) system and yet capable of improving fuel-efficiency performance, is chosen to be used in vehicles. Compared with the AT system, the DCT system can improve fuel efficiency by approximately 9%. According to some estimates, motors account for approximately half the world’s power Inverter consumption. At present, a majority of those motors are AC, brushed DC, and other inefficient Electric oil pump motor motors. Nidec delivers high-efficiency brushless DC motors to the world to improve the Motor The idling stop function, which stops the engine when the vehicle is parked, temporarily efficiency of entire motors, and contribute to reducing motors’ power consumption, while Electric oil pump stopped, waiting for a traffic light, etc., can improve its fuel efficiency by approximately 5 – 8%. power pack providing solutions to support the diffusion of renewable energy sources and be part of the Pump Realizing this improvement requires an electric oil pump motor, which can maintain the global energy-saving and de-carbonizing initiative. hydraulic pressure of the transmission in the engine when it stops. Case The Nidec Group supplies automobile manufacturers with groups of products that effectively Meeting Energy-saving and ■ Breakdown of Global Power Consumption improve fuel efficiency, and that help curb CO2 and air pollutant emissions. Nidec Elesys Nidec Corporation Nidec Tosok & Nidec GPM De-carbonizing Needs Electricity and Standby electricity chemical products 3% At the 21st Session of the UNFCCC-Conference of Parties (COP21) held 3% in Paris in December 2015, “the Paris Agreement,” a global framework to Electronics curb CO2 emissions toward 2020 and beyond, was adopted. Though 10% actions based on the agreement differ among its signatory nations, the Motor Paris Agreement established an international midand long-term Heat exchange devices 46% direction of saving energy and reducing carbon emissions. It is our belief that supplying to the world motors that are more 19% energy-efficient than conventional ones is one of the most fundamental Lighting social responsibilities for Nidec, the world’s leading comprehensive motor 19% Source: IEA Energy Eﬃciency Series, Paul Waide, Conrad U. Brunner, et al. 2011 manufacturer. Also, in the field of renewable energy, we use our group’s smart grid technology to utilize power efficiently in power generation, transformation, distribution, etc. ■ Nidec's Major Areas of Environmental Contribution Nidec’s fifth medium-term environmental conservation plan, launched in SR Motor for Large Vehicles FY2016, quantifies the greenhouse gas reduction effects when the Nidec Provide high-eﬃciency, Provide renewable Group’s products are actually used, describing these as “the amount of energy-saving motors energy systems The Nidec Group, in addition to other motors, develops and produces SR (Switched environmental contribution.” The amount “visualizes” correlations Reluctance) motors*, which are used, instead of conventional engines, to drive construction between the amount of Nidec’s environmental contribution and its sales equipment, mining & agricultural vehicles, and other industrial vehicles. and profit, enabling us to grow our businesses while contributing to Environmentally contributing products include Industrial vehicles’ operating sections function by hydraulic pressure, and an engine is installed environmental protection. Our ultimate goal is to see Nidec’s total amount ● Automotive motor (EPS motor, etc.) ● SR motor in these vehicles to enhance it. The SR motor accumulates the electricity generated by such of contribution through the use of our products exceed the total amount ● Inverter air conditioner motor an engine in a battery, and utilizes the electricity, spending energy very efficiently. This is how of the environmental load discharged in the process of our business ● High-eﬃciency motor that meets SR motors significantly save energy and reduce CO2 emissions when vehicles operate. activities. the IE3 (premium eﬃciency) regulations ● Renewable energy system *SR (Switched Reluctance) motor: Motor that does not use magnets (rare earth-free). (photovoltaic generation, wind power generation, etc.) SR motor 09 Nidec CSR Report 2017 Nidec CSR Report 2017 10 Environment Environmental Contributions with Our Products EV & HEV SR Motor System (SiC Inverter-installed SR Motor System) Providing Renewable Energy Systems The Nidec Group has developed an inverter equipped with an SiC (silicon carbide) semiconductor device that is superior to the conventional Si (silicon) semiconductor in loss, Contributing to Realizing a Stable Power withstanding pressure, high-pressure operation, etc. We combined the inverter with an SR motor to make a lighter and more compact system. The use of SiC with the inverter led to a Supply and a Low-carbon Society significant reduction of electric loss, while the lighter weight helped batteries to consume less Nidec ASI, a company that handles everything concerned with Project report 1 electricity. These features have enabled us to minimize the power consumption of EVs and renewable energy – from power generation to storing to HEVs, leading to a dramatic reduction in CO2 emissions. transmission and distribution – offers system solutions to supply Smart Micro-grid Solution low-cost power reliably and stably to both large-scale facilities such as hospital and shopping malls, and remote places such as In this project, we installed a large-scale power storage small regional villages. system in the village of Ollague, located 3,660 meters Inverter Air Conditioner Motor The company smart micro-grid project integrates photovoltaic, above sea level in the Andes Mountains which run through wind, and other power generation systems with batteries, Chile in South America, to supplement the electricity The inverters, installed in air conditioners, which are used in growing numbers worldwide, successfully developing a micro-grid technology that ensures generated by solar, wind, and other energies, which were control their motors’ rotating speed, save energy significantly, and control air volume, helping optimum power management. Using this technology, Nidec ASI unable to provide a stable supply. In addition, we launched air conditioners evolve into energy-saving, low-noise, and comfort-conscious products. delivers stable power to various areas in the world where power a new project to integrate the existing diesel power The brushless DC motor, one of the Nidec Group’s flagship products, is an essential supply has been unstable. generators with our new system, to provide a stable supply component in these inverter air conditioners. Producing these motors in China, Thailand, and In its BESS (Battery Energy Storage System), Nidec ASI has of electricity. many other parts of Asia, we modularize them with blowing motors and inverter circuits to developed and offers a power storage system that temporarily Now, with the necessary power supplied constantly, 24 make high-performance motors, which are delivered to air conditioner manufacturers stores surplus electricity in a regional power network, and releases hours a day, people in the Ollague village are able to read worldwide, while helping individual countries to reduce their electricity consumption. the electricity when power supply becomes unstable, to ensure even at night, while TV sets, refrigerators, and other stability of the power supply. appliances are starting to be used widely in the village. High-performance Motor that Meets the IE3 (Premium Eﬃciency) Regulations Project report 2 In Japan’s industrial sector, approximately 75% of electricity produced is estimated to be spent on motors.*1 If Japan’s industrial motors, almost all of which are currently at the IE1 (standard The World's Largest-class BESS Project efficiency) level, were to be replaced entirely by IE3-level (premium efficiency) motors, it is estimated that a significant amount of power would be saved – 15.5 billion kWh per year,* 2 and In November 2016, Nidec ASI delivered the world’s such savings would also be effective for many other countries in the world. The Nidec Group largest-class BESS (Battery Energy Storage System), with a has been producing the “NEMA Premium Motor,” an industrial motor that meets the US’s total capacity of 90 MW, to STEAG, Germany’s major NEMA*3 standard (equivalent to IE3), since 2011, and started, ahead of the regulations, the electric power company. This project, which uses six of supply of IE3-level motors in September 2014. Furthermore, we have already developed Nidec ASI’s large-scale BESS systems, further improves the Micro-grid system in Chile advanced IE4and IE5-level motors as part of our efforts to dramatically improve the energy safety and efficiency of the transmission network in efficiency and CO2 emissions reduction records of the world’s industrial equipment. Germany, where renewable energy is used at an increasing *1 & 2 Information by Japan Electrical Manufacturers’ Association (JEMA) (Top Runner Motor) pace, contributing tremendously to suppressing greenhouse *3 National Electrical Manufacturers Association gas emissions and reducing electricity costs. We will stay committed to improving the BESS systems’ ■ Annual power consumption ■ Annual CO2 emissions Purchasing price + electricity price （kwh） （t） reliability, power storing capability, price and cost, to 23,000 12 Current motor develop and integrate highly reliable energy infrastructures 22,500 11.5 Mighty Econo that makes renewable energy more convenient to use. CO2 emissions Energy saved 22,000 11 reduced BESS (Battery Energy Storage System) system in Germany Energy saved 21,500 10.5 21,000 10 IE1 IE3 IE1 IE3 Annual power saving per unit: Annual CO2 emissions reduction per unit: App. 1,100 kwh App. 560 kg Breakeven point Operating time The above chart is based on an energy-saving and CO2 emissions assessment of Nidec Techno Motor Corporation’s “Mighty Econo” motor (IE3 level), in which the energy-saving effects were calculated based on a scenario where a 7.5 kW, 4P, 50 Hz motor was operated for 10 hours a day and five days a week for a year. More energy will be saved with more units operated for a longer period of time. Photovoltaic power generation plant in a suburb of Ciminna, Sicily, Italy 11 Nidec CSR Report 2017 Nidec CSR Report 2017 12 Environment Environmental Burden Reduction & Natural Environment Conservation through Our Business Major Actions to Reduce Environmental Load Environmental Conservation Actions As we are resolved to save energy and reduce CO 2 emissions, The world’s biodiversity is tremendously affected by climate Nidec’s individual business sites are planning to introduce change. The Nidec Group engages in indirect biodiversity high-efficiency equipment, operate existing equipment better, and conservation via product-based environmental contribution and redesign the overall manufacturing process. For example, in environmental load reduction through business activities, while introducing energy-saving equipment, our manufacturing site in trying to conserve biodiversity more directly via such actions as Vietnam monitored the operating status of the compressors inside water discharge management with consideration of the effects on the equipment’s outdoor unit and suppressed the compressors’ the ecosystem. operations. Now, the site, which used the Joint Crediting In addition, as part of our volunteerand donation-based Mechanism ratified by Japan’s Ministry of the Environment, contributions, we launched a “Nidec Green Campaign,” expects to reduce its annual CO2 emissions by approximately participating in forest maintenance and satoyama (a mountain 4,600 tons. close to a rural settlement habitat) conservation in Japan, while In addition, in disclosing information on CO 2 emissions and engaging in reforestation and green-area cleanup outside Japan. climate change management via the “Carbon Disclosure Project,” The Nidec Group companies in Thailand started mangrove planting we disclose all relevant information, including information on in FY2007, with a record number of 328 people (employees and Scope 3 emissions by companies in our supply chains. their families) participating in June 2016. In this activity, a total of As part of the efforts to reduce environmental load in our supply more than 10,000 mangrove trees have been planted so far. Our chains, Nidec’s business sites request their supply chain partners environmental conservation activities also include special menus at to submit an agreement on environmental actions to support them employee cafeterias, and donating part of the sales revenue from The entire Nidec Group is promoting a rise in awareness of environmental load, an important to improve their environmental efforts. private brand goods to the Kyoto Model Forest Association. Continuous Air control element related to business activities, and suppression of the load, as part of the group’s monitoring of unit intensity-based, environmental efficiency improvement initiative. We try to contribute to the compressor natural environment conservation via our business activities, while promoting our employees’ Energy-saving contributions, made via volunteer activities and donations. control Data from Environmental Load Reduction via Business measurement Data from Outdoor unit measurement ■ Overview of Nidec s Environmental Burden Overview of Nidec s Environmental Burden Material Balance（FY2016） Nidec continuously monitors the overview of its INPUT O U T P UT Non-production sites Production sites business-generated environmental load to better manage the Design and Total greenhouse environment. With a majority of our business-generated Electricity 1,163 million kWh development 681,192 t-CO gas (CO2) emissions ■ Greenhouse Gases（CO2） ■ Electricity ■ Greenhouse Gases（CO2） ■ Electricity 2 (purchased + generated in-house) greenhouse gas emissions attributed to power and fuel Total eﬄuent Gas 16,307 t Procurement volume 9,469,478 m 3 Total discharge（ ） * Total discharge（ ） Total power（ ） Total power（ ） * Total discharge（ ） * Total discharge（ ） Total power（ ） Total power（ ） * consumption, our production sites’ better use of energy is Discharge volume** ** ** ** (LPG, utility gas, LNG) per person Power per person Discharge per sales amount of US$1,000 Power per sales amount of US$1,000 Total waste the key to reducing the greenhouse gas emissions. Fuel (light oil, gasoline, A-type fuel oil) 7,229 kl disposal volume 83,820 t (t-CO2) (t-CO2) (thousand kWh) (thousand kWh) (t-CO2) (t-CO2) (thousand kWh) (thousand kWh) 20,000 29,377 29,112 800,000 1,200,000 1,107,416 1,137,942 30,000 20 Production 0.20 79,895 t 17,366 17,353 16,637 17,315 16,773 26,861 26,557 Water 9,469,478 m Recycled volume 25,530 665,864 664,419 1,001,552 1,009,593 Outlook of Nidec s Fifth Medium-term 1,000,000 949,952 3 Recycled rate 95.3 ％ 15,000 10 25,886 25,667 15 600,000 559,819 596,817 576,926 1,019,400 1,045,917 0.2 15,631 15,055 610,795 606,831 0.15 378 t 20,000 800,000 Oﬃce-use paper Environmental Conservation Plan (ECP5) Logistics Final waste disposal volume 3,926 t 10,000 400,000 600,000 10 0.10 0.15 5 10,000 400,000 S i n c e d e s i g n i n g a n d l a u n c h i n g i t s f i r s t t h re e y e a r 5,000 5.24 4.94 8.1 7.4 7.6 5 200,000 0.079 0.079 0.075 0.074 0.072 ■ Change in the Number of Sites 4.84 3.94 6.7 6.1 0.05 0.133 0.132 0.131 medium-term environmental conservation plan (ECP) in 3.53 200,000 0.124 0.123 0.1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 FY2004, we are now engaging in environmental load FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 0 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 (FY) 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 (FY) 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 (FY) 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 (FY) reduction actions in the areas of greenhouse gases (CO2), electricity, water, and waste disposal, under the fifth Non-production sites 12 14 14 15 15 ■ Water ■ Waste Disposal ■ Water ■ Waste Disposal Total eﬄuent volume（ ） Total disposal volume（ ） Total eﬄuent volume（ ） Total disposal volume（ ） medium-term environmental conservation plan (ECP5), which Production sites 61 65 63 76 76 Total eﬄuent volume（ ） * * Total disposal volume（ ） Total eﬄuent volume（ ） * Total disposal volume（ ） * ** Eﬄuent volume per person ** Disposal volume per person ** Eﬄuent volume per sales amount of US$1,000 Disposal volume per sales ** amount of US$1,000 covers FY2016 – FY2018. This plan aims to reduce the （thousand m3） （m3） （t） （kg） （thousand m3） （m3） （t） （kg） * The fifth medium-term environmental conservation plan (ECP5) covers Nidec Group 9,847 three-year average of the results in these areas by 3% on an 140 90 82.4 10,000 9,113 9,167 9,189 9,365 2.5 4,000 3,734 3,859 companies that were part of the Group as of the base year FY2015. 80 80 intensity basis* from base year FY2015 levels. 120 104.5 107.7 102.1 112.9 104.8 78.7 40 8,000 9,107 8,673 2 3,297 3,506 3,611 1.0 70 66.6 3,000 100 After realizing, based on the FY2016 results, that electricity ■ FY2016 Results against FY2015 benchmark year 98.5 60 60 57.3 63.2 0.75 80 90.9 50 50.9 30 6,000 1.5 2,274 usage and final waste disposal volume are the two major 41.9 2,000 2,006 60 40 40 18.8 0.5 issues in achieving the fifth medium-term environmental Non-production sites Production sites 17.4 20 4,000 1.28 1.21 1.19 1 40 30 1.10 1.02 31.6 30.0 30.3 1,000 0.46 0.42 0.42 conservation plan’s targets, we are now posed to launch Greenhouse Gases（CO2） Down 10.5% Down 3.1% 25.7 20 20 15.4 14.0 10 2,000 0.5 0.25 20 22.0 10 11.7 0.27 0.29 such actions as reducing power usage during new Electricity Down 8.5% Down 0.2% 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 equipment introduction and production line change, as well 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 (FY) 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 (FY) 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 (FY) 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 (FY) as suppressing the disposal volume of unused goods during Water Down 14.3% Down 7.6% factory transfer. Waste Disposal Down 25.3% Up 0.4% * ( additional in-scope sites under ECP5 ) ** ( in-scope sites under ECP4 ) * Intensity basis: Per employee for non-production sites, and per Web Environmental Performance US$1,000 for production sites. http://www.nidec.com/en-Global/sustainability/environment/re-impact/kpi/ 13 Nidec CSR Report 2017 Nidec CSR Report 2017 14 Here’s what Nidec employees think they can do individually via work to & MyVision achieve the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) that UN member nations adopted to achieve in 2030: My My Vision My My Vision Vision Vision Italy Japan Ｉ ｎｄｏｎｅｓ ｉａ Ｍｅｘ ｉ ｃｏ Nidec ASI S.p.A. Nidec Corporation PT. Nidec Sankyo Precision Indonesia Compañia de Motores Domesticos SA de CV Carolina Martinez Arias Moe Ishii Sri Endang Suciati Martha P. Campa Mireles “I bring passion to financially managing my “During the ongoing work style reform, I was “Indonesia is known as a country where a large “I manage the quality of our production process company’s various businesses that use motor able to make improvements through utilizing a area of its forest has been lost to deforestation. to improve our high-efficiency motors. I believe drive technologies contributing to the global system enabling me to create documents more Since realizing this fact, I have been using less paper that we will be able to suppress climate change in environment. My passion is especially deep when it easily, make more versatile changes to the formats of at work, to protect my beautiful country. In addition to us the world by producing high-quality and high-efficiency involves photovoltaics, wind power, and water power similar documents, and consolidate them to be able to work using both sides of the paper, and using paper for secondary products and improving the customer satisfaction level. I will make generation, power storage systems, and other solutions that more efficiently. Now I can work on HR-related tasks that I have purposes such as writing memos, our customer are now sure that we work unitedly, and identify an optimum production enable access to renewable energy. I think securing profit from not been able to tackle so far. I will stay committed to designing becoming more and more cooperative with us submitting process to achieve Goal 13 of the SDGs, while, when requested these projects is an important element in the more active systems and providing support to improve our work double-sided documents. I will be happy to be able to spread this by a customer, analyzing and solving issues by seeing such a utilization of renewable energy.” environments.” resource-saving initiative, even if only to a limited extent.” request as a chance to improve our quality management system.” My My My My Vision Vision Vision U.S. Vision Thailand U.S. Nidec Elesys America Corporation Gregg McMichael Vietnam Nidec America Corporation Nidec Electronics (Thailand) Co., Ltd “My role at NESA is to champion sustainable consumption for the Nidec Servo Vietnam Corporation John Lesslar Chutikan Srisuphan factory. One area of great importance is the recycling and reuse of Nguyen Thi Ngoc Huong consumable materials NESA uses to build our electronic control boards. My “As an Engineer at Nidec, I strive to aid “My work is to keep work environments in a vision is to have a factory that recycles 100% of what it uses and does not send any “My job is to facilitate employees’ understanding waste to landfills. We created an environmental management system as a way of reducing of the importance of energy-saving initiatives. We state where employees can work free of labor pollution and minimizing the negative impact our operations have on the planet. c u s t o m e r s t o p r i o r i t i z e e n e r g y e ff i c i e n t disasters and feel safe and happy. I will stay manage the air conditioner control system that was Today, our company recycles 85% of all the materials that we use in our factory. Our practices and promote clean energy technologies that will committed to working not only with other departments employees are very proud and everybody is working hard to reach our goal of 100% approved in FY2016 as a JCM* supporting business. This but also with government officials to conduct our company’s recycling. One of the biggest challenges we face is to convince suppliers to adopt system has enabled us to reduce our air conditioning system’s accelerate the transition to an affordable, reliable and CSR activities even more actively, and make our work sustainable practices. Another challenge we experience is creating new and innovative power consumption by 22%. By making small but steady steps, I methods for recycling and reuse that are cost effective. Due to our global business we use sustainable energy in the future. Our shared vision is the environments even better than they are now, and spread lots of extra packaging that cannot be reused or recycled and must be disposed of in the hope that we will be able to raise the energy-saving awareness safety-, environment-, and hygiene-related knowledge so that community landfill. I hope global NIDEC can work together as One Nidec to solve these not only of people of the Nidec Group, but also of people around catalyst in achieving the goals of the industry. ” all employees understand them.” challenging issues. All countries are connected by the Earth and we can work together to the world.” keep it beautiful for our children and their children.” * JCM (Joint Crediting Mechanism): Bilateral crediting system launched by Japan’s Ministry of the Environment. My My My Vision Vision Vision My Japan U.S. Ｇｅｒｍａｎｙ Taiwan Vision Nidec Center for Industrial Science Canton Elevator, Inc. Nidec Motors & Actuators (Germany) GmbH Nidec Research and Development Center, Taiwan Naoko Toyoshima Greg Rinehart Stefanie Straßer Lin Ming Tsan “My job is to develop technologies to improve “I am proud of the program we launched in 2016 “At work, I pay most of my attention to how “Saving energy can slow down the pace of factories’ productivity. I would like to develop to audit safety and working conditions in our environmental destruction around the world. Some manufacturing plant. Safety and hygiene consultants to build a sustainable production process by cutting-edge technologies such as new methods to estimates suggest that motors account for produce motors with a limited number of materials and from the Ohio Bureau of Workers’ Compensation working u s i n g t h e m o s t a p p ro p r i a t e m a t e r i a l s a n d approximately half of the global power consumption, directly with our Environmental, Health and Safety Manager making it very important for us to improve motors’ efficiency. Our components as well as inspection technologies that never overlook components provided by local suppliers. I work day by day periodically perform inspections of all departments and processes in defective units, by working with inside and outside research Research and Development Center engages in the development our plant. Equipment, air quality and noise levels in all work areas with my team members to provide new solutions that organizations, and provide our group’s manufacturing sites with those of high-efficiency motor drives for SynRM* and PMSM.* It is such are checked to ensure compliance with federal Occupational Safety maximize our customers’ satisfaction and lead to methods and technologies to offer our customers better products and Health Administration standards.This program has helped foster an honor to be able to utilize Nidec’s technologies to engage in more quickly and at more reasonable prices than anyone else can.” a better work environment for all. “ sustainable relationships with our customers.” wonderful activities to protect the global environment.” * SynRM: Synchronous reluctance motor * PMSM: Permanent magnet synchronous motor My My My Vision Vision Vision My France Romania Ｃｈ ｉｎａ Vision U.K. Nidec Leroy-Somer Holding Nidec Motor Corporation Romania Nidec-kyori Machinery (Zhejiang) Corporation Nidec Control Techniques Limited Mike McClelland Cristian Recenau Yang Yin Ping Muhammad Husaunndee “As a motor drive technology director, I “My goal is to provide high-quality home “I am a member of the Production My vision as R&D Project Manager is to leverage propose high-quality and compact designs to Management Department, and minimize the new technologies to rapidly create increasingly appliance motors, and to build work develop top-level, high-efficiency products. efficient, reliable and cost effective variable speed environments where employees can work safely. amount of waste produced by trying to ensure Based on the synergies in the Nidec Group’s R&D, drives which enable more effective control of electric eco-friendly management and production. I would like to production, purchasing, and other business activities, and I will be improving buildings, production processes, and motors. This leads to more efficient systems overall, thus also from my own experiences, I try to secure top-level improve my team management skills, and build work reducing energy consumption and carbon footprint in a wide work places inside factories to create sustainable environments that are effective for them and me, so that we performance of motor drives without sacrificing their range of applications such as automotive test rigs, reliability. The key to success will be the visualization of environments where employees can work safely, more can provide our worldwide customers with top-quality press manufacturing, port cranes and hoists, HVACR (Heating, electronic control and modularization of motors.” efficiently, and with environmental consciousness.” products.” Ventilation, Air Conditioning, Refrigeration) and elevators. 15 Nidec CSR Report 2017 Nidec CSR Report 2017 16 Society Diversity & Training Employees to Work Globally Global Human Resources that Nidec Seeks Global Human Resources Training Program For the Nidec Group, which seeks to become a global company The second session of the Nidec Global Business School began with a 2 trillion yen-level of net sales in 2020 and 10 trillion in July 2017. The school, which started in FY2016, saw the yen-level of net sales in 2030, training its employees to be able to admission of 18 people from seven countries including Japan work globally is of primary importance. Those focused only on a (Japan, China, the US, Thailand, the Philippines, Italy, and specific region such as Japan or Asia can no longer do business Germany), all of whom are working actively in various places of the on a global stage. “Globalization” means communications with world. In FY2017, we are accepting employees from a wider people of different cultures and realizing diversity. We define the range of our workforce by also launching a “Next Generation following three elements as the necessary skills for employees Global Business Leader Training Program”. who can work globally: FY Events 2017 Next Generation Global Business Leader Training Program starts. 2016 Nidec Global Business School opens. Ability to break through 2015 Nagamori Business School is established. Nidec Motor College starts. any challenging situation with passion, Internal language school opens with fluency level-based 2013 enthusiasm, and English lessons. tenacity Training programs are offered to group companies as well. Professional skill training programs start for engineers, sales personnel, etc. To stay competitive as a socially desirable business even 100 years from Ability to convince 2012 Challenge seminars, correspondence education programs now essentially requires us to train our employees based on a long-term others and talk Fluency in English, (strategic thinking, leadership skills, etc.), and other programs start. about various topics the universal plan so that they become a group of people who can work actively on a in order to be engaging A company-wide TOEIC (Test of English for International global stage. We will train our employees to become able to bring about to others, obtain their language, and 2010 Communication) test is held (twice a year). support/cooperation, other languages English learning seminars are held at individual business sites. an age of change, and work globally based on the three attitudes, and realize dreams “Passion, Enthusiasm, Tenacity,” “Working hard and smart,” and “Do it In addition to the above, we will develop now; do it without hesitation; do it until completed.” and launch a global training program, which will use as a textbook “The Using the “Global Learning Center,” the facility which opened in Challenging Road,” the booklet that was Aim to become a company Train employees to become Vision March 2017, we will train our employees to be able to work translated into four languages (English, Company’s that continues to seek its dreams for truly global and win competitions by growing sustainably, even globally based on these three elements. Chinese, Thai, and Vietnamese), in vision education 100 years from now. on a global stage. Nidec Corporation FY2016. Head Office Annex The Challenging Road Global Learning Center The booklet that describes Mr. Nagamori s business and action philosophies, as well as Nidec s business policies and the Nagamori-ism Respecting and Promoting Diversity VOICE of a Nidec Global Selected as an inaugural member of Nidec Global Business School The Nidec Group recognizes diversity as the source of its We intend to improve the quality of our diversity management to a Business School graduate It was a great pleasure and honour to be one out of 18 students of Nidec’s first Global Business School with competitiveness. As we conduct business globally, we respect level where it works as our group’s strength. participants from all over the world representing all Nidec divisions and many group companies. and embrace the differences among those individuals who Over a period of 9 months the class came together in Kyoto 4 times for a full week to have profound business underpin and operate our group, while utilizing those differences strategy training held by Professor Nawa, who was a very professional and inspiring coach and facilitator of this to the maximum extent to effectively accommodate daily changing programme. In addition the class could enjoy several speeches by President Nagamori and the executive officers ■ Employees by region business environments and customer needs. including intensive Q&A sessions. All this gave many valuable insights into Nidec’s history, background of company Central & South Americas North America roots, core values and the Nidec Way as well as a very comprehensive picture of future strategy, technology Diverse people work for the Nidec Group, which has 7.32% 3.23% roadmap and business mission. development, production, sales, and research facilities across the （7,834 employees） （3,463 employees） On top of this, professional guest speakers and a Zen Buddhist Temple experience made this programme an world. We ensure that we hire talented and passionate individuals exceptional event for all business class members and a life time experience, especially for non-Japanese participants Japan with whom we can work beyond differences in gender, nationality, like myself. 8.15% Nidec Motors & Actuators In summary the training was an outstanding global team building event and the most favourable opportunity to ethnicity, religion, and other qualities and philosophies, evaluate （8,728 employees） Total (Germany) GmbH internalize the Nidec Way and the spirit of ‘One Nidec’ being an exceptional corporation with excellent potential for and appoint those who can demonstrate their full potential, and Europe, 107,062 CEO sustainable future growth. create work environments for that purpose. Middle East & Africa employees Olav Schulte It is my strong belief that initiating and establishing this programme as one of the Corporation’s core pillars of global 10.53% people development and promotion is a very important element going forward on executing Nidec Vision 2020. （11,274 employees） Asia & Oceania Thank you to everybody who made this programme possible and my best wishes for the global HR team to continue this initiative and make it a success story. 70.77% （75,763 employees） 17 Nidec CSR Report 2017 Nidec CSR Report 2017 18 Society Governance Our Responsibility for the Entire Value Chain For More Reliable Business Management The Nidec Group keenly seeks to satisfy our customers based on the QCDSSS (quality, cost, delivery, service, The Nidec Group constantly strengthens its business and business management system to build an speed, and specialization (differentiation)) system. When procuring materials, we apply the fundamental infrastructure that underpins its global business activities. We also promote corporate ethics and compliance, philosophy of giving all companies in the world fair opportunities for us to choose to purchase materials and the two basic elements enabling us to win society’s trust, while working in earnest to secure business continuity components from them, based on fair evaluation. In addition, prior to our products’ delivery into the market, we in any emergency, including natural disaster. pay attention to all the actions by those who made them, and build relations with supply chain partners with excellent records in the areas of human rights, work ethics, health and safety, and environmental conservation. Quality-based Customer Satisfaction CSR Procurement Improving Our Governance System Promoting Compliance To answer various requests from our customers, Nidec’s Collaborating not only with its own manufacturing sites but also ▶ Building and enhancing the global business We hold compliance seminars for our employees on topics such development, production, and sales departments work in an with its supply chain partners, Nidec promotes CSR activities management infrastructure as cartel and bribery, with the awareness that crimes committed in integrated way to improve the customers’ satisfaction level and throughout its entire supply chain. When executing a basic The Nidec Group promotes the quality improvement of its this area would cause tremendous damage to the company. In build good business relationships with them under a “Made in business contract, we request those partners to comply with the business management system, accounting standard, financial FY2016, our legal personnel and others held compliance Market” strategy to develop, produce, and sell our products close Nidec Group’s CSR Charter, while encouraging them to do management, information disclosure system, and other elements seminars/discussions at 90 business sites in the Americas, to our customers and respond promptly to our customers business based on the specific guidelines provided for in the based on global standards. Europe, China, Southeast Asia, and Japan to further share We must strengthen the basis of our growth strategy to promote throughout the world. This is how Nidec provides our customers “Nidec Supply Chain CSR Promotion Guidebook,” and supporting understanding on such matters as “what acts would fall under the Nidec Group’s autonomous global growth, and accelerate the with speedy and detailed customer-oriented services by operating them to do so. pace of PMI (post-merger integration) after purchase of a violation,” “what effects would be expected when a violation is very close to individual regions’ markets. The Nidec Group, producing products in various countries in the company overseas. It is for these purposes that we promote committed,” “how to act if in doubt,” etc. In addition, during world, has an extensive global supply chain. To comply with its building a five-region global management system. Specifically, this FY2016, we established the “Anti-Bribery Policy for the Nidec system aims to build regional management companies to improve ■ QCDSSS Elements own CSRs in production and other business activities, we hold Group – Rules on Dealing with Government Officials, Suppliers, Nidec’s business management quality (governance, compliance, CSR procurement seminars for major supply chain partners at our Agents and Customers” , a set of internal anti-bribery rules to and internal control), and enhance the companies’ functions. sites in individual countries, and perform an onsite audit based on Though the Nidec Group’s organization has so far been based on cover the entire Nidec Group. In FY2017 and after, we will work to Quality Cost each partner’s reply in a pre-audit survey sheet. In FY2016, we a “federate” management system, where individual group improve the quality of group-wide seminars in order to have our held an onsite audit at the sites of 61 of our supply chain partners. companies were given autonomy in their business management, employees better-educated on the anti-bribery rules. we will promote the “One Nidec” management system at an Specialization/ Differentiation QCDSSS Delivery accelerated pace as our business becomes more and more globalized. The Corporate Administration & Internal Audit Business Continuity Plan for Emergency Situations Department, which supervises the entire Nidec Group’s internal Allocating risk managers at individual sites around the world, the ■ CSR-Based Procurement Flow control system, is building a global anti-fraud audit system, and Nidec Group has in place a system in which factors impeding our Speed Service further enhancing the internal control system based on the Work sincerely knowhow and experiences gained from the financial statement business continuity can be promptly detected and properly 1 and honestly addressed. In addition, anticipating the occurrence of such risks audit and the SOX Act audit (which was conducted when Nidec Respect for human was listed in the US). as earthquakes, flooding, droughts, infectious diseases, and fires, 2 rights and labor Also, we are improving our information disclosure system via an we have been conducting BCP (business continuity plan) In recent years, the quality of a company’s products as well as internal information disclosure committee and joint efforts among simulation training at domestic and overseas sites since March that of the company itself is being tested, making it essential for a Coexist harmoniously 3 with the environment Supply specialized departments. company to firmly achieve its corporate social responsibility (CSR) 2014. As of the end of March 2017, a total of more than 800 Nidec chain in order to maximize its customers’ satisfaction. Accordingly, the Ensure occupational partners Nidec Group employees have participated in the training to 4 safety and hygiene ■ Corporate Governance Chart improve their capabilities to perform effectively in their workplaces Nidec Group, aiming to expand its global business continuously, revised its CSR from an international perspective in FY2014 and Maintain good relations when an unexpected event occurs. In FY2017, we will continue to Purchase materials 5 Sale Shareholders Meeting with society thereafter, and performs EICC*-based onsite audits to improve the and components focus on BCP training and further promote a global Appoint/Dismiss Appoint/Dismiss Appoint/Dismiss CSR’s practicality. In this joint project with an EICC certification 6 Management system risk-management system that can further enhance our safety organization, we have audited our 21 major production bases in Board of Directors Meeting Audit and Supervisory Board Meeting management system at production sites and address geopolitical Board of Directors Audit and Supervisory Board Cooperate Asia so far, launching a series of improvement actions. Each area’s Audit risks. CSR Committee level of EICC compatibility based on the FY2016 audit results is as Compliance Risk Cooperate Chairperson Audit follows: Management CSR Oﬃcer Committee Secretariat Committee ■ Number of supply chain partners covered in the CSR audits Accounting Auditor CSR Promotion Oﬃce Supervise Labor: 69%; health and safety: 70%; ethics: 74%; （Audits） Execution of Representative Director and President 70 business Audit the environment: 77%; and management system: 66% Executive Senior 60 61 Management Management operations Meeting Meeting Based on the above results, we will launch improvement actions, 50 49 50 50 Corporate Risk Managemant CSR Promotion with a focus on labor management, emergency measures, and BCP training in Mexico Group Compliance 40 designing a documentation system. Sites Administration and Oﬃce Oﬃce 30 companies Internal Oﬃce audit Internal Audit Dept. *EICC (Electronics Industry Code of Conduct): Internationally recognized standards for 20 Cooperate socially responsible business practices published by the Electronic Industry Citizenship 10 Coalition for an entire supply chain’s business activities, comprising five sections: labor, Corporate Philosophy and Action Principles health and safety, environmental practices, ethics, and management systems. 0 （Mission Statement, Corporate Governance Policy, and Policy Manual） 2013 2014 2015 2016 （FY） BCP training in Italy 19 Nidec CSR Report 2017 Nidec CSR Report 2017 20 ■ Corporate Proﬁle Company name NIDEC CORPORATION Founded July 23, 1973 Brand name Paid-in capital JPY87.78 billion (as of March 31, 2017) Participating in a “Zero Trash” Shigenobu Nagamori Representative Total shares issued 298,142,234 (as of March 31, 2017) project at the Gion Festival (Chairman of the Board, President & CEO) Reducing the amount of trash to make 338 Kuzetonoshiro-cho, Minami-ku, one of Japan’s three major festivals beautiful Address Stock listings First Section, Tokyo Stock Exchange Kyoto 601-8205, Japan ■ Sales ■ Operating Income ■ Current Net Income ■ Number of Employees Participating in a charity run Holding an internal (Consolidated) (Consolidated) (Consolidated) (Consolidated) zumba dance class to help purchase medical equipment （billions of yen） （billions of yen） （billions of yen） 111.7 （persons） 107,062 for a university hospital Promoting employees’ good health 1,200 1,199.3 140 140.3 100 100,000 98,439 1,178.3 89.9 96,602 1,028.4 1,000 120 117.7 80 110.9 76.0 100 800 80 60 600 50,000 60 40 400 40 20 200 20 0 0 0 0 2014 2015 2016 （FY） 2014 2015 2016 （FY） 2014 2015 2016 （FY） 2014 2015 2016 （FY） Establishing a donated class at Kyoto University Lecture for senior high school students Donating toys Helping students to learn “advanced electrical appliance engineering to realize a friendly global environment” Teaching them how to address About the CSR Report 2017 Editor's Note Bringing smiles to children the world’s human rights issues For the Communities Editorial It is the Nidec Group’s important business management issue to fulfill its corporate Due to its active M&A activity, the Nidec Policy social responsibility (CSR), and incorporate sustainable development into its business Group is seeing its member companies and activities. In fulfilling our CSR, dialogue, cooperation, and collaboration with our group’s employees increasing on an ongoing basis, stakeholders (mainly customers, supply chain partners, local communities, employees, including approximately 12,000 people who have joined us since the previous edition of Action Album shareholders, and the global environment) are essential. It is in contribution to this effort that we have been issuing this report, a compilation of the Nidec Group’s CSR policies this report was issued a year ago. As we h a v e d o n e s o f a r, w e a re d i s t r i b u t i n g The Nidec Group engages in a wide variety of activities in regional and philosophies, action results, and issues, every year since 2004. In addition to this Japanese, English, and Chinese versions of communities where we conduct business by looking to their future. Report, which is a digest of our CSR-related information, please read the CSR page of our corporate website for more details. this CSR Report to all our employees working in the various countries in the world, so that they share the “One Nidec” policy Scope of Our CSR Report 2017 focuses mainly on the headquarters, domestic & overseas R&D and work actively in the knowledge that they Report facilities, and production sites of Nidec Corporation, Nidec Sankyo Corporation, Nidec are Nidec employees. I hope that all Nidec Techno Motor Corporation, Nidec Elesys Corporation, Nidec Tosok Corporation, employees, acting as members of the global Nidec-Shimpo Corporation, Nidec Copal Electronics Corporation, Nidec Copal community, and working based on the Corporation, Nidec Servo Corporation, Nidec-Read Corporation, Nidec Seimitsu United Nations’ Sustainable Development Corporation, Nidec Machinery Corporation, and Nidec Global Service Corporation. Goals (SDGs) we explained in this Report, will fulfill their social responsibility to help Offering locally produced Reporting Environmental Reporting Guidelines 2012, Ministry of the Environment of Japan realize a sustainable society. food for national staff Guidelines GRI Sustainability Reporting Guideline, Version 4 Fresh and tasty foodstuffs, which also contribute to reducing CO2 emissions Promoting female With a main focus on the company’s activities during FY2016 (April 2016 – March Reporting employees’ advancement 2017), this report includes activities ongoing from the past as well as information on Period the latest activities. Supporting a local traditional sport Work-Life Balance & Career Advancement Project Teaching children the fun of skating Publication September 2017 (Previous edition: October 2016; Next edition: Scheduled for September 2018) Masahiro Nagayasu Publishing CSR Promotion Office, Nidec Corporation General Manager, CSR Promotion Office Office http: //www.nidec.com/en-Global/sustainability/ Environmental class for Online elementary school students Information Find more detailed, timely information about Nidec's CSR and environmental Giving them an opportunity to Disclosure think about what they can do for Commended by Thailand’s activities on our website. the global environment using motors Disaster training by establishing an alternative CSR award police station in a conference room Ministry of Industry Agreement made with the local police department to work together at the time of a disaster 21 Nidec CSR Report 2017 Nidec CSR Report 2017 22
