Zurich Insurance Group Corporate responsibility highlights 2016 02 Zurich Insurance Group Corporate responsibility highlights 2016 Corporate responsibility highlights 2016 Contents CR at Zurich 3 Corporate responsibility (CR) is integrated into Zurich’s CR management framework 3 strategy. We aim to create sustainable value for all Focus on our people 3 our stakeholders, in line with our values as set out External commitments and indices 4 in Zurich Basics, our code of conduct. United Nations Global Compact Living up to our commitment 5 Enhancing community flood resilience 6 Investing our Group assets responsibly 9 About Zurich CR in business transactions – mitigating Zurich is a leading multi-line insurer that environmental, social and governance serves its customers in global and local risks in underwriting 11 markets. With about 54,000 employees, it provides a wide range of property and Anti-bribery and anti-corruption 11 casualty, and life insurance products and Investing in our local communities 12 services in more than 210 countries and territories. Zurich’s customers include Environmental performance 13 individuals, small businesses, and mid-sized and large companies, as well as multinational Climate change 14 corporations. The Group is headquartered in Zurich, Switzerland, where it was Health and safety in our office buildings 14 founded in 1872. Responsible sourcing and procurement 15 To read about how CR fits into United Nations Global Compact 16 our Group Strategy, please refer to our 2016 Annual Report. Independent assurance report 17 https://annualreports.zurich.com/ GRI Standards Index 19 2016/en/annual-report/ Our cover As a responsible investor, we use capital markets to search for and fund solutions Further information to many of the pressing social and Please visit www.zurich.com environmental issues of our time. Email: corporate.responsibility@zurich.com 2 03 Zurich Insurance Group Corporate responsibility highlights 2016 This report provides information on some of the key areas where Zurich made progress in corporate responsibility in 2016, including our continued commitment to the United Nations Global Compact. To read more about our approach to corporate responsibility and related activities, please refer to our CR pages on https://www.zurich.com/en/corporate-responsibility CR at Zurich A CR Working Group, set up by the Executive Committee, ensures that we achieve our For Zurich, corporate responsibility is at the heart CR objectives. The Working Group comprises of our culture. It produces sustainable value for senior representatives from across the business our customers, employees, shareholders and and is chaired by the Chief Executive Officer, the communities where we work and live. Europe, Middle East & Africa. We are proud of what we achieved in 2016. We continued to help communities reduce flood A key aim is to embed responsible decisionrisk together with members of the Zurich flood making and actions into everything we do. resilience alliance. Our investments in green To ensure accountability, each of our CR focus bonds have grown substantially, from areas is assigned to an executive member. USD 870 million in 2015 to USD 1,393 million The relevant business units and Group in 2016. Our community investment increased functions determine the approach and method from total cash contributions of USD 22.6 million for delivering the agreed-upon objectives. in 2015 to USD 29.6 million in 2016. And Zurich Zurich has established a strong foundation achieved its highest ever score in the Dow Jones for corporate responsibility. To achieve greater Sustainability Index. Zurich’s approach to integration in our business, we have aligned proactively address environmental, social and our CR planning cycle with the strategic cycle governance factors as part of our day-to-day of the Group. Going forward, we will focus on business activity also supports several of the supporting our business objectives, by having a United Nations Development Goals (SDGs). greater impact and working more closely with our businesses. During 2016 we defined more CR management framework specific objectives, key performance indicators Insurance creates value for society. It allows people and businesses to protect themselves from risk and helps them become prosperous and resilient. Risks are becoming more complex as a result of The Executive Committee and the Board take and plans. climate change, globalization, urbanization and technological development. an active role in overseeing and implementing our approach to corporate responsibility (CR). Focus on our people Insurers are increasingly expected to use their core skills to help communities and society become more The Governance, Nominations and Corporate We want to give people equal opportunity resilient to interconnected risks, including natural hazards. The premiums we invest in capital markets Responsibility Committee, a standing to deliver, and we aim to compensate also help to finance businesses and projects that are important for society. Corporate responsibility is an committee of the Board, reviews and approves our people fairly through pay, promotions integral part of Zurich’s strategy. By acting responsibly in everything we do, we aim to create sustainable the Group’s CR strategy and objectives. and opportunities. value for all our stakeholders. 3 04 Zurich Insurance Group Corporate responsibility highlights 2016 To support these aims, in 2016 we introduced our ‘Global Job Model,’ External commitments and indices which provides our employees with access to their role profiles and Zurich became a signatory of the United Nations Global Compact in career levels, and gives clear information about what is expected in their July 2011 and a signatory of the Principles for Responsible Investment role and career options, making it easier for them to build successful (PRI) in July 2012. For both, we report annually on the progress we careers at Zurich. have made. In the 2016 Dow Jones Sustainability Indices (DJSI) Review, By reflecting the diversity of our customers we can best meet their Zurich achieved its highest score of 85, outperformed 97 percent of needs. And by recognizing our peoples’ individuality we achieve better other companies in the insurance industry group and received the business results, while creating an environment that allows all our ‘silver class’ distinction. Zurich is a member of the DJSI World and people to feel motivated, valued and able to excel. To foster our aims, DJSI Europe Indices. we became the first global company in the insurance industry to receive Zurich has submitted a CDP response annually since 2004. CDP, formerly ‘EDGE’ (Economic Dividends for Gender Equality) certification. the Carbon Disclosure Project, is an international, non-profit organization Our decision to apply for EDGE certification demonstrates our aim providing the only global system for companies and cities to measure, to improve gender equality within all areas of our business, starting in disclose, manage and share vital environmental information. In 2016, 2015 with Germany, Hong Kong, Italy, Spain, Switzerland and the UK. Zurich achieved a score of ‘B’ in our Climate Change 2016 response. Building on our success, in 2016 we received certification in Australia, Austria, Brazil, Ireland, Japan and Mexico. These 12 businesses represent Zurich has been a constituent of the FTSE4Good Index Series since the over 28,000 employees. Index was introduced in 2001. Zurich is also a constituent of the MSCI Global Sustainability Index Series. We believe encouraging new talent is the best way to ensure strong leadership for the future. With that in mind, in 2016 we introduced Zurich Oxygen, a comprehensive program to develop leadership skills among our employees. All our managers took part in this program in 2016. Over 6,500 people managers, from line managers to country CEOs, also participated in over 120 one-day events to help them better understand the skills good managers need. Read more in Our people 2016 report on https://www.zurich.com/en/ corporate-responsibility/doing-business-responsibly/our-people 4 05 Zurich Insurance Group Corporate responsibility highlights 2016 United Nations Global Compact Living up to our commitment Statement of continuing support See page 16 for United Nations Global Zurich became a signatory of the United Compact – links to relevant information Nations Global Compact in July 2011 because on our website. we believe that being a responsible company is fundamental to our long-term sustainability. As a signatory, we are committed to aligning our strategy, culture and day-to-day operations with the Global Compact’s 10 universally-accepted principles in the areas of human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption. The principles of the Global Compact complement Zurich Basics, our basic values and code of conduct, and all Zurich employees are expected to live up to both. Our continued commitment to the United Nations Global Compact’s principles on human and labor rights, the environment and anti-corruption is expressed in this report. We are committed to embracing, supporting and enacting these principles within our sphere of influence, and we will regularly communicate on our progress. Mario Greco Group Chief Executive Officer, Zurich Insurance Group 5 06 Zurich Insurance Group Corporate responsibility highlights 2016 Members of our flood resilience alliance Action research and modelling to improve knowledge about floods Risk expertise to understand the role of insurance in flood management Enhancing community Zurich invests in the Water Window In 2016, Zurich and the Global Resilience flood resilience Partnership launched a Global Resilience Floods affect more people globally than any Challenge called the Water Window, a other natural hazard. Addressing the underlying grant-based competition that identifies Global influence and scale to reach Technical innovation to understand the problems related to floods is more efficient and and develops locally-driven innovations the most vulnerable communities impact of climate change on floods cost effective than simply providing relief after and high-impact solutions to improve water floods have occurred. Flood resilience is a resilience. To test new and innovative ideas we complex issue and tackling it demands a offered ‘seed grants’ of up to USD 250,000, multi-stakeholder approach. Zurich’s flood and for ideas that were already shown to work, to expand their impact we offered Community members: Academic members: resilience program has brought together an alliance of community, academic and private ‘scale grants’ of up to USD 1 million. • The International • The Wharton School, University sector members. In recognition of our The competition took place during March Federation of Red Cross of Pennsylvania collaboration model between humanitarian, and April 2016 and attracted over 300 and Red Crescent applications. We vetted and assessed more Societies (IFRC) • The International Institute academic and private sectors, and for our than 140 entries that were shortlisted for of Applied Systems Analysis approach to flood resilience, we have received further development. In November 2016 we • Practical Action, UK (IIASA), Vienna various prizes since the program was established in 2013. awarded seven seed grants and four scale grants that will be implemented over 2017-2018. Zurich works within this alliance to ensure that the knowledge Zurich is the Global Resilience Partnership’s and ideas it generates fit the needs of local communities, and first private-sector member, and it provides that these ideas can be put into practice. an investment of USD 10 million from the Z Zurich Foundation. 6 07 Zurich Insurance Group Corporate responsibility highlights 2016 Action at a community level alliance’s 5C-4R flood resilience measurement In 2016, our research alliance framework. The 5C model uses the ‘five Our five-year alliance with the IFRC began with Wharton and IIASA built NEPAL MEXICO INDONESIA PERU its work in 2013 and has continued its efforts capitals’ described in the UK’s Department for in 2016 in communities in Mexico and International Development (DFID) ‘sustainable upon earlier research findings Indonesia. In Mexico, the focus is on livelihoods framework’ (SLF). The 4R model and delivered further insights developed by the Multidisciplinary Center for flood-vulnerable clusters of communities in Tabasco, where standing flood waters of Earthquake Engineering Research (MCEER) at about the behavior of people the Usumacinta river affect areas for months the University of Buffalo in the U.S. proposes at risk from flooding. at a time. Throughout 2016 we worked with that a system has four properties that 22 communities in Tabasco to increase their determine resilience. risk awareness and support their selection In October 2016, an article published by IIASA of interventions to reduce exposure to 74 22 21 15 in the respected journal Science looked at Transition (ISET), publishing a review of floods floods; such efforts include ways to enhance issues related to climate change, including in the U.S. state of South Carolina. It also the livelihoods of people living in the ‘climate justice;’ a term used to describe the published, together with the JBA Trust, a communities, helping them secure income Number of communities worked with fact that vulnerable, especially developing review of flooding caused by Storm Desmond during floods, building multi-purpose nations that produce fewer emissions than in the UK. Separately, IIASA, by analyzing all community centers that can also serve as established economies are often the most PERC findings to date, established that our emergency shelters, and improving the safety at risk from the impacts of climate change. work has broad, general relevance, and the of water supplies and sanitation systems. In for use during floods. Practical Action have The article explored the idea that learning and expertise we gain can be applied 21 communities in West and Central Java, also enhanced their ‘Vulnerability to Resilience international finance mechanisms like to a global context. Indonesia, where flood risk is high due to (V2R)’ program in 15 communities in ‘climate risk insurance’ could augment efforts the prevalence of flash floods and poor river Bangladesh, sharing learning from their We have continued to make important to increase long-term resilience, for example, basin management, we focus on developing efforts in Nepal and Peru with this initially progress in developing and verifying our own by helping poorer at-risk countries to counter innovative waste management and Zurich funded program. We also help the flood resilience measurement framework. the risk of rising sea levels. reforestation projects, establishing flood communities to develop support teams to It is based on contributions from all the early warning systems, and work to prepare for the impact of events related to Zurich significantly enhanced its post-event flood resilience alliance members and demonstrate how certain methods and El Niño and support them in working with review capability (PERC) in collaboration with four additional community organizations practices upstream can influence flooding local governments to reduce disaster risk. the Institute for Social and Environmental (Academy of Sciences in the U.S., Concern in downstream communities. Generating knowledge to Work in Nepal and Peru is being carried out build scale through our five-year alliance with Practical In 2016, our research alliance with two Action. In Nepal, we work in 74 communities academic research institutions, Wharton in the Karnali river basin to strengthen early and IIASA, produced valuable insights warning systems and improve livelihoods to about risk related to insurance. In New York make communities better able to withstand communities affected by Superstorm Sandy, the threats posed by floods. This includes Wharton found that perceptions of training farmers in alternative farming vulnerability to climate-related risks like practices, and setting up local knowledge flooding from hurricanes influenced peoples’ centers to increase flood awareness. In Piura willingness to buy flood protection. Wharton and the Rimac river basin in Peru we are also established links between the U.S. flood working with 15 communities to improve community rating system and the Zurich evacuation routes and emergency plans 7 08 Zurich Insurance Group Corporate responsibility highlights 2016 Worldwide with programs in Afghanistan and Haiti, Plan International in Nepal and Mercy Corps in Indonesia, Nepal and Timor-Leste). Nepal All these organizations tested the tool in their flood-related community programs in 2016. They are now analyzing results to find ways to build resilience that are owned by communities. In many cases, these will be scalable and can be replicated in other India programs around the world. This will allow all our alliance member organizations to share the information they gain, and use it widely to increase flood resilience. Measuring resilience Since the flood resilience program was set up, members of the flood resilience alliance have been working together to gain a thorough understanding of what contributes to a community’s resilience to floods. This will allow us to design more effective ways to address the related issues, and also to measure the impact they have. We began the work of implementing our flood resilience tool in 2016 after providing Engaging Zurich’s people training for all our community partners using the tool. This is the first practical application of a Zurich’s approach to building our flood resilience alliance goes measurement framework for resilience. beyond providing financial contributions. We also aim to make best use of the skills of Zurich’s employees. In 2016 five Zurich Throughout 2016, the tool was used in dozens employees worked on projects with our alliance members. of communities. The data it has provided will Their contributions included helping Practical Action in Nepal allow us to measure and test the tool’s to revitalize its approach to business and resource planning. effectiveness. Responses from those using Practical Action will replicate the approach in all of its offices. it has been positive so far. The research Our employees also provided support to implement a institutions we collaborate with have helped measurement tool in Indonesia with Mercy Corps; developed us to validate the approach, communicated a revised human resources strategy for Practical Action globally; findings with the scientific community and and carried out an assessment to identify opportunities for published initial results. This has made it possible further projects with the Red Cross in Mexico. In addition, to conduct more in-depth analyses. The process Zurich volunteers in Mexico and Indonesia added more than has also led to more ‘holistic’ solutions, which 200 additional days of support to projects in these countries, encourage actions to reduce risk longer term, supplemented by full-time project managers, totalling over 700 as opposed to quick fixes that may fail to days. We also provided significant in-kind contributions, using produce sustainable results. As part of our Zurich’s risk engineering and flood risk management expertise work, we have created a peer group that shares provided by Zurich employees who were made available to the findings and information, results and ideas. This program on a partor full-time basis. will help us to further develop the tool in 2017. 8 09 Zurich Insurance Group Corporate responsibility highlights 2016 Investing our Group assets responsibly Highlights in 2016 Impact Investing: Our investments in green ESG Integration: We are continuously bonds grew substantially in 2016 from USD 870 amending legal agreements with our million in 2015 to USD 1,393 million. Green external asset managers to explicitly require bonds provide capital exclusively used to finance responsible investment practices; over projects with environmental benefits. We 60 percent of investments designated to be currently hold 89 green bonds in our portfolio, in scope of our ESG integration approach supporting green projects ranging from are now covered by Investment Management renewable energy generation to sustainable Agreements referencing ESG integration. real estate or energy efficiency improvements. We have updated our proxy voting policy. We also continue to support the growth and While most of our equity investments are development of the green bond market beyond managed externally, we have now put in our financial investments, for instance, as place all necessary policies and procedures co-chair of the Green Bond Principles initiative. to actively exercise our voting rights as Investments in social and sustainability a shareholder for the remaining equity bonds, which provide financing to projects investments managed internally. and activities aimed at social issues beyond climate change, have also grown, from USD 55 million to USD 199 million, including Responsible investment can mean different things to different people. a market-leading private transaction with a Zurich has chosen to pursue it primarily in three ways: major European municipality. • ESG integration – besides examining financial performance, we also assess the environmental, social and governance (ESG) ‘performance’ when analyzing individual investments and Responsible investment KPIs investment managers. We take these assessments into account when we decide whether to buy or sell assets. 2016 2015 Change 2014 2013 External asset managers who are • Impact investing – we fund institutions or projects that, signatories to PRI (%) 74.1% 70.4% 3.7 pts 67.9% 58.3% besides generating a safe, adequate return, have a targeted Group assets managed by PRI and measurable positive impact on the environment or society. signatories1 (%) 98.2% 98.1% 0.1 pts 98.8% 95.1% • Advancing together – responsible investing is a story that Total amount of impact investments2 is still being written. We are helping to write it, together with (USD millions) 1,697 1,031 65% 667 236 a broad group of stakeholders. Total Group investments (USD millions) 189,808 191,238 (1%) 204,860 207,280 1 Including assets managed by Zurich. Over the course of 2016 we made further progress 2 Impact investments 2016 consist of USD 1,393m green bonds, USD 105m investments committed to in applying our approach. private equity funds (thereof: 28% drawn down) and USD 199m other impact use-of-proceed bonds. 9 10 Zurich Insurance Group Corporate responsibility highlights 2016 Impact of real estate investment Energy consumption1 (kWh per sqm) 2010 baseline Target: -20% by 2020 (vs. baseline) 2010 127 2012 -0.5%* 126 2013 -0.2%* 126 2014 -2.3%* 124 20152 -4.8%* 121 *Total change vs baseline Impact of real estate investment Advancing Together: We believe it’s critical to Our responsible investment approach CO2e emissions1 (kg per sqm) engage all market participants in a dialogue on responsible investment. Over the course of was recognized by fellow German, 2010 baseline 2016, we led conversations about responsible Austrian and Swiss institutional Target: -20% by 2020 (vs. baseline) investment with all of our external asset investors with the Institutional Investor managers; engaged with policymakers and regulators on the topic of green finance; Institute Peer-to-Peer Award for 2010 32 encouraged banks to integrate sustainability ‘Best ESG Programme’ in 2016. 2012 -1.5%* 32 assessments in their research; and spoke at 28 industry events. 2013 -1.5%* 32 We also remain actively involved in nine industry initiatives, such as the Investment Leaders 2014 -3.7%* 31 Group (ILG), which we joined as a founding member in 2013. In 2016, the ILG published 20152 -6.2%* 30 three influential reports on climate risk, long-term investing and impact reporting, *Total change vs baseline and we actively contributed to all of these. Read more at https://www.zurich.com/ 1 Scope includes real estate investments in Switzerland (54% of global direct real estate investment value). Buildings in the en/corporate-responsibility/ real estate investment portfolio are largely not used by Zurich. The environmental footprint of Zurich’ s own-use real responsible-investment estate is reported in Zurich’s environmental section. The data are based on meter readings and energy supplier information and are heating degree adjusted. The heating degree adjustment methodology was further refined resulting in retroactive adjustments of the prior year information (2014, 2013, and 2012) as well as the 2010 baseline information. 2 Impact of real estate investment data 2016 will be available in Q1 2018. 10 11 Zurich Insurance Group Corporate responsibility highlights 2016 CR in business transactions – mitigating environmental, social and governance risks in underwriting Highlights in 2016 Besides the existing Local operations Zurich uses a three-step approach that training Zurich provides systematically detects, assesses, and mitigates Decline risk major environmental, social and ethical risks on these topics, in 2016 Identify new risk/renewal Carry out inherent in specific business transactions. Zurich introduced a new of existing risk requiring a CR assessment initial CR assessment This is part of the local underwriting process. Concerns about risks can be escalated to online training program Accept risk Process as normal a Corporate Responsibility Decision Group for our underwriters on to assess sensitive or complex corporate child labor, and forced and responsibility risks and provide direction as to the appropriate mitigation actions. compulsory labor. This group includes senior members of relevant business areas, Compliance and Risk. CR Decision Group Refer complex/major We track and analyze the outcome of risk ESG risks to CR assessment and risk mitigation efforts. (includes senior members Decision Group Using our proprietary risk-profiling of relevant business areas, methodology, we have prioritized four key Compliance and Risk Gather data – seek advice from various areas of concern. The first is banned cluster munitions and antipersonnel land mines. Anti-bribery and internal experts and external risk In these areas, we have decided not to engage anti-corruption in new business and to raise the issue of ESG analysis experts Zurich is committed to fair and risks with existing customers. The other areas Accept risk of concern are dam construction, mining, and responsible business and prohibits all oil and gas activities, where we are closely forms of bribery or corruption, and any screening governance, human rights and business conduct that could create the Carry out detailed CR assessment environmental risks. Zurich tracks and monitors appearance of improper influence. Accept risk with volumes and types of corporate responsibility Zurich’s anti-bribery and anti-corruption conditions Group policy sets out our global risks in business transactions internally within the Group and externally with a third-party framework addressing the common ‘risk radar’ expert. Significant changes in areas of risk and includes the ESG performance can be monitored and requirement for local compliance assessed accordingly. functions to appoint an anti-bribery and Country Head/CEO Refer to Country anti-corruption officer; complete a Head/Group CEO for Decline risk In addition, using tools such as the Zurich Risk focused anti-bribery and anti-corruption final decision Radar and the Emerging Issues 7 Step process, risk assessment; identify and record Zurich’s global and interdisciplinary Emerging appropriate mitigating processes Risks Group (ERG) analyzes potential risks, within the business; and embed including those related to environmental, appropriate management information, social or climate issues. key performance indicators, reporting and monitoring processes. This policy was revised in April 2016. 11 12 Zurich Insurance Group Corporate responsibility highlights 2016 Investing in our local Global Community Week KPIs1 communities 2016 2015 Change 2014 2013 Contributions (cash in USD millions) 2 1.5 1.5 1% 0.8 0.8 Highlights in 2016 of which contribution from employees 0.7 0.6 7% 0.3 0.4 (USD millions) • The Z Zurich Foundation continued to support Zurich’s flood resilience program. of which contribution from the Z Zurich 0.9 0.9 (3%) 0.6 0.4 Launched in 2013, this global program Foundation (USD millions) takes an innovative approach that combines Total time volunteered from workforce academic insights, humanitarian sector 44,225 31,040 42% 33,210 28,000 (business hours) capabilities and our own skills and Workforce actively volunteering knowledge to enhance community 32.4% 31.1% 1.3 pts 27% 24% knowledge. For example, in France Zurich (% of total headcount) resilience to flooding. employees provided an employability skills Countries involved 50 45 11% 43 43 • The Z Zurich Foundation seeks to support workshop for young people who have people and communities in building a better, dropped out of school. The program led to 1 All amounts are rounded to the nearest USD 100,000 with the consequence that the rounded amounts may not add up to the rounded totals in all cases. more resilient future. Our Local Grants four participants in the program taking on 2 This year cash contributions made by employees were matched throughout the year, and not just during GCW. Program gives Zurich offices an opportunity internships in a Zurich France claims team. to apply for funding to support local In Indonesia, employees led emergency long-term community investment initiatives simulations in schools to help students Total community investments3 to address some of society’s biggest better prepare for disasters such as floods. challenges. In 2016, the Foundation In Slovakia, a Zurich finance team gave 2016 2015 Change 2014 2013 supported youth empowerment programs financial education lessons to young adults Total Community Investment Full Year in Spain, Morocco, Sweden and Germany; at local schools. More than 32 percent of 29.6 22.6 31% 22.7 17.0 cash contributions (USD millions) mental health initiatives in Bermuda and Zurich’s global workforce took part in some Ireland; disaster resilience initiatives in North form of community work during Global 3 Charitable contributions include corporate cash donations only. Contributions cover 100% of our Group’s business units America and Mexico; a campaign to end Community Week. Employees donated and the Z Zurich Foundation. Contributions of the Z Zurich Foundation are valued on a cash-out basis. Excluded are the Farmers Exchanges, which are owned by their policyholders and managed by Farmers Group Inc a wholly owned homelessness in Canada; and a health and around USD 650,000 to good causes, which subsidiary of Zurich Insurance Group Ltd, and contributions made by Zurich employees. nutrition program for children in Malaysia. was matched by the Z Zurich Foundation. Around CHF 200,000 was donated as part of • Zurich’s fifth annual Global Community Week the Foundation’s volunteer matching scheme. took place between May and July 2016, enabling employees to celebrate and build on support they already provide to their local communities. During the week-long events, employees volunteered over 44,200 business Zurich made total cash hours, more than 3,000 of which were contributions of USD 29.6 million skills-based. Our experience indicates that a large majority of non-profit organizations in 2016 to enhance the lives and struggle to access the operational livelihoods of thousands of people capacity-building services they need. Thus, across the world and help them skills-based volunteering has become an area of major focus for Zurich employees seeking increase their resilience to the risks to make contributions of time and they face. 12 13 Zurich Insurance Group Corporate responsibility highlights 2016 Environmental performance CO2 emissions per employee (tons per FTE) 2007 baseline1 Highlights in 2016 Target: -50% by 2020 (vs. baseline) • Operations in Switzerland maintained ISO 14001 certification with use of the 2007 3.03 1.50 4.53 group-wide environmental management system. The system defines the governance 20121 2.17 1.43 -20%* 3.61 and processes necessary to accurately measure and improve Zurich’s 20131 2.00 1.46 -24%* 3.46 environmental footprint across all countries in which we operate. This 20141 1.52 1.22 -39%* 2.74 system comprehensively addresses all environmental indicators including 20152 1.28 1.32 -43%* 2.60 emissions from buildings and business travel, as well as paper use, waste *Total change vs baseline generation and water consumption. A global network of environmental CO2 emissions related to facilities3 managers supports the system’s use. CO2 emissions related to travel4 • We aim to reduce carbon emissions Zurich’s new North American headquarters in generated by our office buildings and 1 Restated in 2015 following review of air travel emission factors being applied to air travel data, inclusion of data centers Schaumburg, Illinois was awarded the U.S. Green into the portfolio, and updated emission factors as per GHG Protocol industry standard. business travel by 50 percent per employee, Building Council’s Leadership in Energy and 2 2016 data will be available in Q2 2017. and energy consumption per employee by Environmental Design (LEED) Platinum 3 Includes emissions from own-use real estate (electricity and heat). 40 percent by 2020 compared with a 2007 certification, its highest rating for structures that 4 Includes emissions from air travel and cars (rental cars and car fleet). baseline. At the end of 2015, we had meet stringent standards of environmental already achieved a 43 percent reduction sustainability. The new headquarters is equipped in carbon emissions per employee with many sustainable features such as systems and a 33 percent reduction in energy • Zurich has been carbon neutral since 2014 Our aim: designed to maximize natural light and provide 100% and is maintaining this status by purchasing high-quality indoor air; access to public consumption per employee. 2016 certified carbon credits through the Rimba Raya transportation and parking for electric and data will be available in Q2 2017. Biodiversity Reserve project in Indonesia. low-emitting vehicles; multiple green roofs that • Zurich has set itself the ambition to purchase renewable provide insulation to increase energy efficiency, 100 percent renewable power in all of its office power totaling more than one acre; the surrounding buildings by 2020, where economically viable. landscape includes 637 trees and more than Currently, more than 40 percent of Zurich’s 13 acres of native savannah plantings; walking power already comes from renewable sources paths and water features; and rainwater is and Austria, Germany, Ireland, Italy, Portugal, harvested and re-used. In addition, this facility Spain, Switzerland and the UK all source at least consumes green power through purchasing 80 percent certified renewable energy. renewable energy credits (RECs). • Zurich continues to achieve efficiency gains in our daily operations for example, we are replacing multi-functional devices with more in all office buildings energy-efficient equipment in North America by 2020 and Europe. 13 14 Zurich Insurance Group Corporate responsibility highlights 2016 Climate change At Zurich, we confront the risks posed by We also have a target to reduce greenhouse climate change through our insurance gas emissions from our Swiss real estate business; by helping our customers and investment portfolio – which accounts for communities become more resilient to natural over half of the Group’s real estate assets – disasters and extreme weather; by offering by 20 percent by 2020 compared with 2010. insurance products to foster sustainable Zurich takes steps to reduce carbon emissions development, through our responsible from its own operations to help mitigate investment approach; and by reducing climate change, reduce energy consumption our own carbon footprint. Zurich has a and conserve valuable natural resources. cross-functional working group assessing We have set a Group-wide target to decrease climate risk. carbon emissions per employee from our office Through a dedicated initiative to help buildings and business travel by 50 percent communities become more resilient to by 2020 compared with 2007. In addition, flooding, we can offer insights that go beyond through its ambitious internal carbon emissions our own knowledge and expertise. Zurich’s reduction efforts and by offsetting remaining flood resilience alliance brings our experts emissions, Zurich has been carbon neutral together with experts in humanitarian since 2014. Health and safety in our office buildings organizations, NGOs and academic We have undertaken various actions and initiatives at the local CDP is an international, not-forprofit institutions; this collaborative approach level to promote employee health and wellbeing, such as fitness organization providing the only global system provides a stronger, more effective way and healthy food campaigns in Italy, employee sports clubs in for companies and cities to measure, disclose, to improve communities’ understanding Spain and providing health talks from registered medical manage and share vital environmental of and resilience to flood risks. practitioners in Hong Kong. information. Through CDP we provide As part of our responsible investment information on our greenhouse gas emissions, Through our global health and safety program we have adopted approach, we aim to integrate the risks and energy use and the risks and opportunities a systems-based approach to managing health and safety risks in opportunities associated with climate change, from climate change. Zurich has submitted a structured and consistent way. A network of health and safety as well as other environmental challenges, a response since 2004. officers within each country leads the local implementation of into our investment decisions. the program in collaboration with its leaders. Implementation is tracked as part of the Zurich Operational Risk and Control Framework. This provides assurance that operational risks related to health and safety are properly managed and controlled. Oversight and coordination of the program is provided by health and safety management groups within each country. We continued to introduce ways to support these aims, including implementation of the global incident management system in North America and the ‘Ergo’ workstation assessment tool in the UK. We evaluate performance through a planned schedule of internal inspections and audits to ensure that we are meeting our goals. 14 15 Zurich Insurance Group Corporate responsibility highlights 2016 Responsible sourcing and procurement ‘Buy Social’ Commits 10 large Zurich ensures that corporate responsibility is an integral Our work with social enterprises is one example of how part of its sourcing and procurement function by: Zurich is ensuring its supply chain takes into account • Incorporating appropriate evaluation criteria to assess corporate responsibility. Zurich in the UK signed up to Social Enterprise UK’s ‘Buy Social’ Corporate Challenge, Corporate UK companies the goods and services we buy, taking into account from diverse industries environmental, social and governance factors in line with which commits 10 large UK companies from diverse Challenge to spend GBP 100 industries to spend GBP 100 million by 2020 on social best value and in compliance with relevant legislation. enterprise companies. Zurich has attended and supported • Ensuring relevant corporate responsibility clauses are included in contracts with suppliers. a number of Social Enterprise’s events this year and was nominated for the Social Enterprise Market Builder million by 2020 on • Developing an understanding of the environmental, award. We will communicate the achievements of this social enterprise program throughout Zurich to encourage a global social and governance impact on diversity of the goods and approach based on this initiative. companies. services we buy, and by implementing processes to ensure these factors are taken into account on an ongoing basis. • Reflecting our commitment to promoting supplier diversity. Engaging a wide range of different suppliers gives Zurich the potential to engage the best, most agile and innovative companies. Links to relevant information on our website • Working actively with our suppliers to enhance corporate responsibility performance throughout the supply chain. External commitments and indices • Providing key data and insights to review and improve policies, processes and guidelines for managing corporate Enhancing community flood resilience responsibility issues in the supply chain. Investing in our Group assets responsibly Working with customers Employees are required to take into account the Investing in our local communities economic, social, diversity and environmental impacts of their purchasing activity. Environmental performance Climate change Health and safety in our office buildings Responsible sourcing and procurement 15 16 Zurich Insurance Group Corporate responsibility highlights 2016 United Nations Global Compact Links to relevant information on our website Human Rights Labor Environment Anti-Corruption Principle 1: Businesses should support and Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the Principle 7: Businesses should support a Principle 10: Businesses should work against respect the protection of internationally freedom of association and the effective precautionary approach to environmental corruption in all its forms, including extortion proclaimed human rights; and recognition of the right to collective bargaining; challenges; and bribery. Principle 2: make sure that they are not Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote complicit in human rights abuses. forced and compulsory labor; greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 5: the effective abolition of child Principle 9: encourage the development labor; and and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Our commitment Our commitment O  ur commitment (Zurich Basics Our commitment page 12) Respecting human rights Our people Employees speaking up and Group environmental policy reporting concerns (Zurich Basics C  orporate responsibility in Employee development and pages 6 and 11) business transactions diversity & inclusion (including Environmental performance key performance indicators) Anti-bribery and anti-corruption Z  Zurich Foundation Annual Assurance statement Report 2015 Board composition Corporate responsibility in Flood resilience program business transactions Global Risks Report 2017 Employee engagement Climate change: Zurich’s position Respecting human rights Z  urich’s role in emerging markets Ensuring diversity and a merit-based approach C  arbon neutral S  ustainable products and solutions Employees speaking up R  esponsible investment and reporting concerns Understanding catastrophe risk E  mployees speaking up and (Zurich Basics page 11) reporting concerns (Zurich Basics Sustainable products and services pages 6 and 11) Health and safety management C  orporate responsibility S  uppliers Suppliers in business transactions H  ealth and safety management 16 17 Zurich Insurance Group Corporate responsibility highlights 2016 Independent Assurance Report on Zurich’s 2016 Corporate Responsibility Reporting To the Executive Committee of Zurich Insurance Criteria Our responsibilities Our Independence and Group AG, Zurich (‘ZIG’). The reporting criteria used by ZIG are described Our responsibility is to form an independent Quality Control We have been engaged to perform assurance in ZIG’s internal CR reporting guidelines and opinion, based on our limited assurance We have complied with the independence and procedures to provide limited assurance on define those procedures, by which the CR procedures, on whether anything has come to other ethical requirements of the Code of selected consolidated Corporate Responsibility indicators are internally gathered, collected our attention to indicate that the CR indicators Ethics for Professional Accountants issued by (CR) indicators of ZIG and its consolidated and aggregated. are not stated, in all material respects, in the International Ethics Standards Board for subsidiaries. accordance with the reporting criteria. Accountants, which is founded on fundamental Inherent limitations principles of integrity, objectivity, professional Scope and Subject matter We planned and performed our procedures in The accuracy and completeness of CR competence and due care, confidentiality and accordance with the International Standard on Our limited assurance engagement focused indicators are subject to inherent limitations professional behavior. Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000 (revised) on the following indicators and information given their nature and methods for ‘Assurance engagements other than audits or Our firm applies International Standard on as disclosed in the CR highlights report of determining, calculating and estimating such reviews of historical financial information’ and Quality Control 1 and accordingly maintains ZIG and its consolidated subsidiaries for the indicators. Further, the carbon emissions with ISAE 3410 ‘Assurance Engagements on a comprehensive system of quality control financial year ended December 31, 2016: quantification is subject to inherent uncertainty Greenhouse Gas Statements’. These standards including documented policies and procedures because of incomplete scientific knowledge a) The 2016 “Responsible investment KPIs” require that we plan and perform the assurance regarding compliance with ethical used to determine emissions factors and the on page 9, the 2015 “Impact of real estate engagement to obtain limited assurance on the requirements, professional standards and values needed to combine emissions of investment” KPIs on page 10, the 2016 identified sustainability indicators. applicable legal and regulatory requirements. different gases. Our Assurance Report should “Global community week KPIs” on page 12, therefore be read in connection with ZIG’s A limited assurance engagement is substantially the 2016 “Total community investment KPIs” guidelines, definitions and procedures on less in scope than a reasonable assurance on page 12 and the 2015 “CO2 emissions the reporting of its CR indicators. engagement in relation to both the risk per employee” KPIs on page 13 (“the assessment procedures, including an selected consolidated CR indicators”); and ZIG responsibilities understanding of internal control, and the b) The management and reporting processes The Executive Committee of ZIG is responsible procedures performed in response to the with respect to the selected consolidated for both the subject matter and the criteria assessed risks. Consequently, the nature, CR indicators as well as the control as well as for selection, preparation and timing and extent of procedures for gathering environment in relation to the data presentation of the information in accordance sufficient appropriate evidence are deliberately aggregation of these CR indicators. with the criteria. This responsibility includes the limited relative to a reasonable assurance design, implementation and maintenance of engagement and therefore less assurance is related internal control relevant to this reporting obtained with a limited assurance engagement process that is free from material misstatement, than for a reasonable assurance engagement. whether due to fraud or error. 17 18 Zurich Insurance Group Corporate responsibility highlights 2016 Summary of the work performed We have not carried out any work on indicators Our limited assurance procedures included, other than outlined in the scope and subject among others, the following work: matter section as defined above. We believe that the evidence we have obtained is sufficient • Evaluation of the application of the and appropriate to provide a basis for our CR reporting guidelines and review assurance conclusions. of application at affiliates Reviewing application of the ZIG internal Limited assurance conclusions CR reporting guidelines using a sample Based on the procedures we performed, of affiliates in Switzerland, UK, USA nothing has come to our attention that causes and Germany. us to believe that • Management inquiry a) The selected consolidated CR key Interviewing personnel responsible for performance indicators as described in the internal reporting and data collection scope and subject matter section are not at ZIG Group level and at affiliate level. prepared and disclosed in all material respects in accordance with ZIG’s internal • Assessment of key figures CR reporting guidelines; and Performing tests on a sample basis of evidence supporting selected consolidated b) The management and reporting processes to CR indicators concerning completeness, collect and aggregate the selected CR data accuracy, adequacy and consistency. as well as the control environment in relation to the data aggregation are not functioning • Inspection of documentation as designed. and analysis of relevant policies and principles Zürich, March 30, 2017 Inspecting relevant documentation on a sample basis, including ZIG Group CR PricewaterhouseCoopers AG policies, management reporting structures and documentation. • Assessment of the processes and data consolidation Peter Eberli Raphael Rutishauser Reviewing the management reporting processes for CR reporting and assessing the consolidation process of data at ZIG Group level and their related controls. 18 19 Zurich Insurance Group Corporate responsibility highlights 2016 GRI Standards Index Key: AR: Annual Report 2016 CR: Corporate responsibility highlights 2016* GRI is an international independent organization that helps businesses, governments and other : Link to www.zurich.com OP: Our People report 2016 organizations understand and communicate the impact of business on critical sustainability issues such as climate change, human rights, corruption and many others. This is the first year Zurich CDP: Carbon Disclosure Project submission 2016 has mapped its reporting content to the GRI standards and aims to improve this further in 2017. *The Corporate responsibility highlights 2016 report includes the United Nations Global Compact This index lists the organization’s reports and web pages and their reference to the following communication on progress. GRI Standards. Number Disclosure name Reference and page number Number Disclosure name Reference and page number General disclosures General disclosures (continued) 102-1 Name of the organization AR 1 102-20 Executive-level responsibility for economic, environmental, and social topics 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services AR 49; CR 3 AR 1 and 12 to 14; CR 11 102-22 Composition of the highest governance body and its committees 102-3 Location of headquarters AR 1 AR 38 to 54 102-4 Location of operations 102-23 Chair of the highest governance body 102-5 Ownership and legal form AR 279 AR 42 to 45; CR 3 102-24 Nominating and selecting the highest governance body AR 40 102-6 Markets served 102-25 Conflicts of interest AR 45, 70 to 71 and 84 102-7 Scale of the organization AR 1 102-26 Role of highest governance body in setting purpose, values, AR 54 102-8 Information on employees and other workers AR 22 to 23 and strategy 102-9 Supply chain 102-27 Collective knowledge of highest governance body AR 54 CR 15; CDP 102-28 Evaluating the highest governance body’s performance AR 48 to 49 102-10 Significant changes to the organization and its supply chain AR 3 and 12 102-29 Identifying and managing economic, environmental, 102-11 Precautionary principle or approach AR 298 and social impacts AR 59 102-12 External initiatives  AR 15 to 17 and 20 to 21; 102-30 Effectiveness of risk management processes AR 145 to 146 CR 4 to 5 102-31 Review of economic, environmental, and social topics 102-13 Membership of associations 102-32 Highest governance body’s role in sustainability reporting CDP CDP 102-33 Communicating critical concerns 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker AR 60; CDP AR 2 to 6 102-35 Remuneration policies AR 81 to 82 102-15 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities  AR 8 to 9 and 114 to 115; 102-36 Process for determining remuneration AR 81 to 92 CDP 102-37 Stakeholders’ involvement in remuneration AR 81 and 83 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior AR 11 and 20 to 23 102-40 List of stakeholder groups 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics AR 27; CDP AR 72 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements 102-18 Governance structure  R 27 and 31 to 36; CR 3; A 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements AR 262 CDP 102-46 Defining report content and topic boundaries AR 279 102-19 Delegating authority CR 3; CDP 19 20 Zurich Insurance Group Corporate responsibility highlights 2016 Key: AR: Annual Report 2016 CR: Corporate responsibility highlights 2016* OP: Our People report 2016 : Link to www.zurich.com CDP: Carbon Disclosure Project submission 2016 *The Corporate responsibility highlights 2016 report includes the United Nations Global Compact communication on progress. Number Disclosure name Reference and page number Number Disclosure name Reference and page number General disclosures (continued) Energy 102-48 Restatements of information AR 279 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization CDP 102-49 Changes in reporting AR 178 to 179 302-3 Energy intensity CDP 102-50 Reporting period AR 279 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption 102-51 Date of most recent report CR 13; CDP CR 1; CDP Emissions 102-52 Reporting cycle AR 167; CR 3; CDP 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report CR 13; CDP AR 297 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions CDP 102-56 External assurance 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions CDP  R 70 to 71, 110, 270 to 275 A and 286 to 289; CR 17 305-4 GHG emissions intensity CDP Management approach 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions CR 13; CDP 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach AR 54 Supplier environmental assessment Economic performance 308-1 New suppliers that were screened using environmental criteria CDP 201-1 Direct ecomic value generated and distributed AR 167 to 175 201-2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities due to AR 8 and 132; CDP Employment climate change 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover AR 23 201-3 Defined benefit plan obligations and other retirement plans AR 226 to 228 201-4 Financial assistance received from government AR 219 Training and education 404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and Indirect economic impacts career development reviews 203-1 Infrastructure investments and services supported Diversity and equal opportunity CR 6 to 9; CDP 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees AR 23 and 41 203-2 Significant indirect economic impacts Supplier social assessment 414-1 New suppliers that were screened using social criteria CR 6, 9 and 12; CDP CR 15 Materials Public policy 301-2 Recycled input materials used 415-1 Political contributions 20 Disclaimer and cautionary statement Certain statements in this document are particularly in key markets; (ii) the risk of a Governors. Farmers Group, Inc. and its THIS COMMUNICATION DOES NOT CONTAIN forward-looking statements, including, but global economic downturn; (iii) performance subsidiaries are appointed as the AN OFFER OF SECURITIES FOR SALE IN THE not limited to, statements that are predictions of financial markets; (iv) levels of interest rates attorneys-in-fact for the Farmers Exchanges UNITED STATES; SECURITIES MAY NOT BE of or indicate future events, trends, plans or and currency exchange rates; (v) frequency, and in that capacity provide certain non-claims OFFERED OR SOLD IN THE UNITED STATES objectives of Zurich Insurance Group Ltd or severity and development of insured claims administrative and management services to the ABSENT REGISTRATION OR EXEMPTION FROM the Zurich Insurance Group (the Group). events; (vi) mortality and morbidity experience; Farmers Exchanges. Neither Farmers Group, REGISTRATION, AND ANY PUBLIC OFFERING Forward-looking statements include (vii) policy renewal and lapse rates; and (viii) Inc., nor its parent companies, Zurich Insurance OF SECURITIES TO BE MADE IN THE UNITED statements regarding the Group’s targeted changes in laws and regulations and in the Company Ltd and Zurich Insurance Group Ltd, STATES WILL BE MADE BY MEANS OF A profit, return on equity targets, expenses, policies of regulators may have a direct have any ownership interest in the Farmers PROSPECTUS THAT MAY BE OBTAINED FROM pricing conditions, dividend policy and bearing on the results of operations of Zurich Exchanges. Financial information about the THE ISSUER AND THAT WILL CONTAIN underwriting and claims results, as well as Insurance Group Ltd and its Group and on Farmers Exchanges is proprietary to the Farmers DETAILED INFORMATION ABOUT THE statements regarding the Group’s whether the targets will be achieved. Zurich Exchanges, but is provided to support an COMPANY AND MANAGEMENT, AS WELL understanding of general economic, financial Insurance Group Ltd undertakes no obligation understanding of the performance of Farmers AS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS. and insurance market conditions and expected to publicly update or revise any of these Group, Inc. and Farmers Reinsurance Company. developments. Undue reliance should not be forward-looking statements, whether to placed on such statements because, by their reflect new information, future events or It should be noted that past performance nature, they are subject to known and circumstances or otherwise. is not a guide to future performance. unknown risks and uncertainties and can be Persons requiring advice should consult an affected by other factors that could cause All references to “Farmers Exchanges” mean Farmers Insurance Exchange, Fire Insurance independent advisor. actual results and plans and objectives of Zurich Insurance Group Ltd or the Group Exchange, Truck Insurance Exchange and their This communication does not constitute an to differ materially from those expressed or subsidiaries and affiliates. The three Exchanges offer or an invitation for the sale or purchase implied in the forward-looking statements (or are California domiciled interinsurance of securities in any jurisdiction. from past results). Factors such as (i) general exchanges owned by their policyholders with economic conditions and competitive factors, governance oversight by their Boards of Zurich Insurance Company Ltd Mythenquai 2 8002 Zurich, Switzerland Phone: +41 (0) 44 625 25 25 www.zurich.com 173003380 (03/17) TCL
