United Media Center COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS UMC 2016 This is our Communication on Progress in implementing the principles of the United Nations Global Compact. We welcome feedback on its contents. UMC COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2016 2 I. STATEMENT FROM THE CHAIRMAN Dr. Mohamed Hamza Al Houseni Chairman United Media Centre is pleased to present our 3rd annual report on progress as a signatory of the UN Global Compact. The combined report reviews our progress as, we the gateway of media communication through media channel added value for every one affected by our projects. We contribute to sustainable development and in the spirit of the new UN Sustainable Development Goals. As we move forward to our engagement, the report identifies actions UMC has taken during the reporting period to support and drive forward the process of applying the ten UN Global Compact principles in each of the four issue areas on human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption. At UMC, our work continues to be focused on sustainability in several ways: Creating innovative and effective strategies of the government future plans and projects through media synchronization. We also work to support the nation›s economy by ensuring sustainable development and competitive framework for the unfolding of the communications innovation. We provide leadership in strengthening the defense of the nation›s communications infrastructure and encouraging the highest and best use of spectrum domestically and internationally. Moving forward, we will do everything we can to continuously improve our performance and to live up to the vision and values that we have long held at UMC. We are proud to share some of these activities in this report and welcome your feedback on this report or any of our initiatives. 3 UMC COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2016 CONTENTS 3 I | CEO Statement Of Continued Support in 2016 5 II | INTRODUCTION 2.1 | Reporting to UN Global Compact 2.2 | About United Media Center 9 III | PART 1: UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 3.1 | Human Rights – Principles 2–1 3.2 | Labor – Principles 6–3 3.3 | Environment – Principles 9–7 3.4 | Anti-corruption – Principle 10 12 IV |PART 2: UMC CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY 4.1 | Corporate Responsibility UMC COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2016 4 II. INTRODUCTION 2.1 REPORTING TO GLOBAL COMPACT United Media Center has supported the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) since 2013. Our Communication on Progress 2016 demonstrates our motivation to maintain our commitment to support the fundamental principles of UN Global Compact in the form of an integrated “Annual Report ( UMC Annual Report 2014). This COP contains a statement by the CEO expressing continued support for the Global Compact and renewing our company’s ongoing commitment to the initiative and its principles. Moving forward into the third year of our engagement, we are committed to support and drive forward the process of applying the ten UN Global Compact principles (Human Rights Management, Protection of Labour Rights, Environmental Management and Fight against Corruption) The time period covered by this COP : March 2016 ,01 to March 2017 ,31. By our commitment to the UNGC we emphasize our efforts to embrace, support and enact a set of core values in the areas of human rights, labor standards and the environment as well as our efforts to combat corruption. We believe that the 2014 COP report not only highlights the importance we place on the 10 principles but also assists stakeholders to cross reference each of the principles to the various initiatives we have implemented and the progress made to date. 5 UMC COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2016 2.2 ABOUT MEDIA CENTER United Media Centre is the gateway of media communication that regulates interstate and international information through media channel. It is an independent media centre represented by the government of Qatar, as the primary authority for communications, regulation and technological innovation. The headquarters of United Media Centre is in Doha, Qatar. UMC is in strategic partnership with Egypt Media located in West Cairo Egypt. Having an eclectic mix of experience from government to private sectors, UMC has been engaged in any major governmental projects and committed to the following objectives: • Connecting the aspirations of the government and the national vision of 2030 and deliver it to the community as one nation. • Creating innovative and effective strategies of the government future plans and projects through media synchronization. • Strengthening the link between the community and public and private sector through advancing media information and communication in the form of campaigns and projects for the government. • Educating and familiarizing the community about their culture, customs and heritage in support of the country’s aim wherein the country of better living. • Supporting the nation›s economy by ensuring sustainable development and competitive framework for the unfolding of the communications innovation. • Providing leadership in strengthening the defence of the nation›s communications infrastructure. • Encouraging the highest and best use of spectrum domestically and internationally. • Promoting competition, innovation and investment in media services and facilities • Revising media regulations so that new technologies flourish alongside diversity and localism. UMC has evolved from a renowned media and publishing agency into a communications business equipped to lead in the digital age. Our capabilities have grown to encompass creative development across all media, TV, and digital video production, digital UX, design and build, digital publishing, social strategy and identity, community management and CRM and data analysis. UMC COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2016 6 UMC PROJECTS AND CAMPAIGNS UMC works with the world’s biggest companies to deliver integrated information and in print and digital publishing communications. We have initiated the most remarkable and significant event of the nation – the “ WATANY EVENTEra of Achievements 2016 ” and instigated the very first comprehensive and informative governmental communication engines including the very first published Qatar Labour and Business Guide, Qatar Business Guide, Doha Medical Guide, Qatar National Record and Eyes of Qatar Magazine. 7 UMC COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2016 WATANY EVENT ERA OF ACHIEVEMENTS Watany Qatar Era of Achievements is the commemoration of the wise leadership of His Highness Sheikh Tamim Bin Hamad Bin Al Thani for his outstanding headship for our beloved state, Qatar. It is also a tribute to the great wisdom of the state leader in the comprehensive development that successfully accomplished in all key local sectors which largely represents the developing world. On this very significant event, we acknowledge the strategic endeavors of our current leaders aimed at sustaining the legacy of our founder, who built our nation through his wisdom and sincere determination. We are working towards instilling a sense of belonging, pride and national identity into the hearts of the Qatari citizens and residents of the state. UMC COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2016 8 UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS The UN Global Compact Principles in the areas of human rights, labour, the environment and anti-corruption enjoy universal consensus and area derived from: • The Universal Declaration of Human Rights • The International Labour Organization’s Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work • The Rio Declaration on Environment and Development • The United Nations Convention Against Corruption Then UN Global Compact asks companies to embrace, support and enact, within their sphere of influence, a set of core values in the areas of human rights, labour standards, the environment and anti-corruption: Human Rights Labour Principle 1: Businesses should support and Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom respect the protection of internationally of association and the effective recognition of proclaimed human rights; and the right to collective bargaining; Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of forced in human rights abuses. and compulsory labour; Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Environment Anti-Corruption Principle 7: Businesses should support a Principle 10: Businesses should work against precautionary approach to environmental corruption in all its forms, including extortion challenges; and bribery. Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. 9 UMC COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2016 HUMAN RIGHTS Labour UMC acknowledged the decree of business committee OUR COMMITMENT in respecting and supporting international human Our human resources policy aims to enrich United rights throughout our business operations and Media Center family with individuals that are respectful ensuring that we are not complicit in human rights to people and society, reliable, honest and would share abuses. During the course of 2016, we intend to review our vision and value customer satisfaction. Our capable and enhance our existing policies and processes to HR department also aims to develop human resources determine how to further implement our commitment applications in order to improve performance, motivation to respect and support international human rights and loyalty of our employees. The management of UMC throughout our operations. oath to: • Not to discriminate employees based on religion, • In this course UMC created a Code of Ethics in line language, gender, physical disability or age, • Execute our with the international standard of Corporate Social lawful responsibilities Responsibility that clearly and transparently defines • Acquire more objective results by using scientific the values that United Media Center embraces in methods in all recruitment phases, • Institute and use pursuing the business goals and the responsibilities systems that would enable our employees to improve, UMC assumes within and outside the business. UMC work more productively and advance in their careers, commitment to protect human rights is not only • Comparatively determine wages and additional benefits attached in our Code of Ethics but also enacted in of our employees within the resources of the company, the form of various established method and control • Safeguard confidentiality of private information of our systems or procedures. employees, • Make necessary measure to protect environment and to • United Media Center fully accepts the obligations promote occupational health and safety. placed upon it by covering health and safety. The • Value recommendations and ideas of employees and to executive committee of the company is aware that a job implement and honor applicable ones, environment that is healthy, safe and environmentallyfriendly is necessary. In order to prevent environmental IMPLEMENTATION pollution, occupational accidents and injuries at UMC offices and to make regular improvements in these UMC protects the inherent dignity and worth of every areas, we abide with legal and other requirements human and provides for equal rights and opportunities that we are obliged to implement concerning free of discrimination. It prohibits discrimination in environmental and occupational safety. employment on the following grounds: age, association, color or race, creed or religion, ethnic or national origin, • United Media Center pays great attention to Client criminal conviction, family status, marital status, physical fulfillment, aware of the fact that only continuous or intellectual disability, political belief, sexual orientation, development of mechanisms helping us realize what source of income, sex (including pregnancy and sexual our Clients want can improve our operations to mutual harassment) and having filed a complaint or given satisfaction . With the goal of further increase of client assistance. It is advantageous for an employeremployee satisfaction and loyalty, special attention was paid at the relationship and thus an enterprise to be free from strengthening of our corporate image, improvement prejudice and discrimination. An effective workplace is of the quality and adjustment of the prices of our developed and maintained by an employer’s efforts in services, as well as the improvement of organizational providing equal access to employment opportunities and efficiency of the work of branch offices. Special stress equitable treatment for all in the workplace. Employees was placed on the elimination of the basic causes of are entitled to a workplace that preserves their human dissatisfaction, simplification of business procedures dignity and is free from discrimination and harassment and education of clients about the use of alternative and a workplace where each employee’s abilities, rather channels. than inabilities, are the focus. UMC COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2016 10 ENVIRONMENT ANTI-CORRUPTION OUR COMMITMENT OUR COMMITMENT United Media Center sustains environmental United Media Center primary values of integrity protection through engaging a preventive method and contained in the Code of Ethics expressly prohibit constantly supports the development and increase of environmentally friendly technologies. such behavior. The principles of honesty and integrity protect in the Code of Ethics represent a Our aim is to minimize our negative ecological commitment by the company to refrain from illegal influence, to continuously improve environmental conduct. The Companies of the Group follows the protection and to develop a greater sense of Code of Ethics principles and adopted internal policy responsibility amongst employees and suppliers. and procedures against bribery and extortion. IMPLEMENTATION IMPLEMENTATION We use internal training and communication to UMC has established the principle of separation of increase our employees’ awareness of environmental duties. Payments are all recorded in its computer issues. Ongoing improvement of our environmental performance is a central element of the UMC. system and must be authorized by someone other than the people who managed the billing process UMC main way of saving resources is by making and provided with specific proxies. The systems sparing and efficient use of materials in its production, in place for approval of contracts & payments are printing and distribution processes. designed to prevent corruption. The company defies a conflict of interest as “any situation in which an We also set great store by ensuring that our production employee uses his or her contacts or position in the processes are as efficient as possible and generate as Company to advance his or her private business or little waste as possible. financial interest, whether or not at the Company’s expense.” The policy continues to give employees We try to use non-hazardous materials and also examples of situations that could be considered a more environmentally friendly alternatives wherever possible. UMC have a global Environmental Policy that conflict of interest and prohibits such behavior. The applies to all of our offices and requires all employees second document is the Code of Ethics. The Code to take reasonable care of the Environment. In addition, of Ethics states, “All dealings between the Group all employees receive training on our environmental and third parties must be conducted ethically approach as part of their induction when joining the and legally and without resorting to unlawful firm. From a practical standpoint, we work to reduce means. Corruption, illegal favoritism, collusion, and our environmental impact in four key areas: travel, attempts to receive personal advantages for one energy, waste, and procurement. self or for others are prohibited.”The third is the UN Global Compact, which states “Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery.” The policy on such matters is contained within the company Handbook, given to all employees on commencement of their contract together with the Code of Ethics for signing. In summary: there is zero tolerance for any form corruption. 11 UMC COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2016 UMC CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY By introducing our Code of Conduct in 2014, United Media Center established general rules for ethical behavior in our business conduct. This document is a formal element of every employment contract and we expect our employees to comply with. Our policies and practices are aligned with the United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the UN Global Compact, the International Labour Organization’s (ILO) core labour standards and the United Nations Guiding Principles for Business and Human Rights. We respect fundamental principles in all areas of human rights, labour standards, the environment and anti-corruption. We actively promote diversity and equal opportunities in everything that we do. We also encourage and influence the other organisations we work with to do the same. In 2013 we reviewed our human rights policy in line with the United Nations Guiding Principles for Business and Human Rights. The review helped us to pinpoint our most material human rights risks relative to our five key stakeholder groups. Employees We manage our risks by delivering on our commitment to respect and promote fair reward, diversity and inclusion, equal opportunities, labour relations and freedom of association. Supply Chain We request our suppliers to disclose their human rights policies and engage with them where necessary to address any concerns we have. Our procurement contracts require suppliers to commit to the ILO core labour standards and uphold the universal declaration of human rights. Customers Our business ethics code requires us to conduct business in a way which respects human rights. This includes being clear in our communications, ensuring accessibility to our people and privacy of clients data. Community Our corporate responsibility, climate change and environment practices are aligned to the ILO core labour. UMC COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2016 12 United Media Center 13 Tel: +974 44954980 | Fax: +974 44655841 UMC COMMUNICATION | P.O.Box: ON PROGRESS 2016 992 , Doha , Qatar info@umcqatar.com | www.umcqatar.com
