United Nation Global Compact We firmly believe that a work environment fostering trust and respect enables employees to develop their personal potential Energy drives people. and contribute to the success of the Group. 1 Rogers 2 Who we are ? Rogers and Company Limited is a listed international services and investment company with nearly 120-year history pioneering the economic development of Mauritius. We are one of the country’s leading companies and largest employers in the services sectors with a strong commitment to Social and Natural Capital. What makes Rogers Our Group is widely acknowledged for its solid asset base, quality network of contacts and partners, recognised expertise with substantial market share in each of the sectors in which we operate, as well as a united, competent and balanced team. What we do We conduct our operations in Mauritius and abroad in four served markets, which are FinTech, Hospitality, Logistics and Total revenue Rs m Property, in which we have developed specialist expertise. Our operations within each served market are organised into sectors, all of them with a leading position in their respective industries. What we value Our activities at Rogers are based on our core values of Leadership, Dynamism and Agility, which are embedded in our every action and govern how we conduct business every day. We firmly believe that Energy drives Everything within our organisation, from dynamism to inspiration, agility, performance, sustainability and happiness. 3 CORPORATE PROFILE Rogers CORPORATE PROFILE 4 France Our Regional Presence Bangladesh offices in Over the years, we have expanded and diversified India our footprint around the world, it currently spans three continents, and we employ 4,526 staff. Singapore The presence of the Rogers brand outside Mauritius is detailed below: Kenya countries • Rogers Capital has overseas desks in South Africa, Seychelles Seychelles and Singapore. Comoros • VLH has sales teams in France, UK and Germany. Mayotte • Rogers Aviation has regional offices in the Comoros, Madagascar, Mozambique, Mayotte, Reunion Island and South Africa. • Velogic has established offices in strategic locations in Reunion, Mauritius Madagascar, Mozambique, Kenya, France, India and Singapore. Mozambique Madagascar Reunion We also have representations through agents for UPS in the Island Seychelles, Comoros and Mayotte. Additionally, an agent operates under the brand name, Velogic in Bangladesh. South Africa 8 CORPORATE PROFILE Rogers CORPORATE PROFILE 9 Our Group Structure FINTECH HOSPITALIT Y LO GIS T ICS P ROPERT Y SECTORS Corporate Services Hotels Logistics Solutions Property Investments Technology Services Travel Property Development Financial Services Leisure & Agribusiness ACTIVITIES Rogers Capital Veranda Leisure & Velogic Ascencia Hospitality (VLH) Compagnie Sucrière de Bel Ombre Rogers Aviation (CSBO) Island Living Les Villas de Bel Ombre KEY INVESTMENTS Swan General New Mauritius Hotels Mall of Mauritius at Bagatelle Swan Financial Solutions Air Mauritius Le Morne Development AXA Customer Services Mautourco Corporation (LMDC) White Sand Tours BlueConnect 5 CORPORATE PROFILE Rogers CORPORATE PROFILE 6 Events & Achievements 2016-2017 Product offering enhancement at A fresh look for the Ascencia Domaine de Bel Ombre brand Significant upgrades to existing facilities at Ascencia, the premier property investment our hospitality venues on the Domaine de Bel company in Mauritius with an asset portfolio Ombre have been undertaken from 15 May of Rs 10.7bn and some 100,000m² of to 15 August 2017 in line with our long-term lettable space, has unveiled in July 2017 strategy to celebrate the history and beauty its new brand identity and tagline, “Shaping of this more than 250-year-old natural singular places”. The rebranding has been sanctuary. Heritage Le Telfair Golf & Spa applied across the entire mall portfolio, Resort has undergone extensive renovation which includes some of the best shopping as part of its repositioning as a unique and lifestyle destinations on the island, such product in style, decoration and identity, in as Bagatelle Mall, Phoenix Mall, Riche Terre harmony with the Domaine. Le Chateau de Mall, Les Allées d’Helvetia, Kendra as well as Bel Ombre went through major refurbishment So’Flo, which is slated scheduled to open in to bring out the rich and complex history November 2017 in Floreal. as well as the authenticity of the place. Landscaping work was also carried out along Bagatelle Mall celebrates the walkway linking Heritage Le Telfair Golf 5th anniversary & Spa Resort and Le Chateau de Bel Ombre Continued social and environmental commitment Bagatelle Mall put up an activity-packed in order to create a much more integrated programme including live window displays, The special purpose vehicle Rogers Foundation, established to implement our Group’s guest experience together with the Heritage live concerts, a lucky draw and a special decor Corporate Social Responsibility objectives, has undertaken a number of initiatives in the 2017 Golf Club. throughout the month of September 2016 Heritage Resorts awarded Green financial year. In line with our commitment to the protection of the island’s coastal and marine to mark the mall’s fifth year in operation. Key eco-label Veranda Palmar Beach’s spa gets ecosystems, we offered our continued support to the NGO, Reef Conservation’s “Bis Lamer”. The anniversary celebration of the country’s This Mobile Marine Education Unit aims at bringing education about marine and environmental Heritage Awali Golf & Spa Resort and a facelift premier shopping venue with a monthly issues closer to the people. A comic book, “Tikoulou, la légende de Bel Ombre” was launched Heritage Le Telfair Golf & Spa Resort, our two The spa at Veranda Palmar Beach Hotel has average of 700,000 visitors culminated with in March 2017 and distributed for free to children in order to provide them with a playful and luxury five-star hotels on the Domaine de Bel been refreshed in late 2016 with a nice a festive evening on 30 September 2016 at educational introduction to the rich ecosystems and biodiversity of Bel Ombre. A beach erosion Ombre, became in January 2017 the first two bright facelift to further improve the guest La Place du Moulin on the Domaine de Bel mitigation project is also under way since June in the region. Additionally, the Foundation lent its establishments in Mauritius to achieve the experience. The decor of the two treatment Ombre, which brought together tenants, support to the fundraising efforts to help the victims of cyclone Enawo, which hit Madagascar prestigious Green Key award. They are now rooms as well as the reception and relaxation partners, service providers, employees and in early March 2017. part of over 2,500 sites across the globe to areas have been revamped with beige and government officials. have been presented with this certification. turquoise blue tones combined with light The Green Key eco-label is a leading standard woodwork. The spa of this Veranda Resorts of excellence in the field of environmental property also has a sauna. responsibility and sustainable operations within the tourism industry. It represents a commitment from tourism establishments to adhere to the strict criteria stipulated by the Foundation for Environmental Education (FEE). 7 CORPORATE PROFILE Rogers CORPORATE PROFILE 8 Events & Achievements 2016-2017 Heritage properties win accolades at World Golf Awards prompted a review of the strategic plans and the implementation of action plans for The Heritage Golf Club and Heritage Le Telfair Golf & Spa Resort were both each sector. This intensive five-day seminar rewarded at the third edition of the World Golf Awards Gala Ceremony held has also contributed to strengthen the on 12 November 2016 in Portugal. For the third year in a row, the Heritage collaboration between the Group’s different Golf Club was voted Best Indian Ocean Golf Course. Heritage Le Telfair Golf & sectors. Phil Parker is currently based Spa Resort received the award for the Best Golf Hotel in the Indian Ocean. This in Singapore where he teaches business award programme forming part of the prestigious World Travel Awards is one strategy and marketing. He also has teaching of the highest accolades in golf tourism. experience in Africa, Asia, Latin America, Europe and the Middle East. Rogers Capital steps into the FinTech arena Our Group has merged together and consolidated our expertise in the FinTech served market in October 2016 to form a single unified brand, Rogers Capital. Harnessing the power of technology to make financial services more agile, efficient Encouraging young musicians from Patyatann and trustworthy, the entity is organised into three sectors – Corporate Services, The Rogers Group has reiterated its support for the promotion Technology Services and Financial Services – of arts and culture in the country through contributing to combining world-class financial expertise the creation of the debut album of Patyatann. This group Support to the 11th Annual GSSI Conference with cutting-edge technology to provide of four young artists has been honing their art on the local sophisticated business solutions tailored to music scene since 2012 prior to releasing “Sanpek” on Rogers was a proud Platinum Sponsor of the 11th Annual Global Sales Science Institute (GSSI) clients’ needs. Ashley Coomar , who has over 6 August 2016 with ten tracks celebrating the cultural Conference, which was hosted from 6 June to 9 June 2017 at the Paradis Beachcomber Golf 10 years’ senior management experience diversity of Mauritius. Resort & Spa. The event, themed “New Frontiers in Sales Research & Education in a Global & with the Group, has taken up the role of Ascencia wins Corporate Reporting Award Sustainable World” was attended by over 80 participants from 16 countries. The Global Sales Chief Executive Officer of Rogers Capital in Veranda Resorts adds a 5th hotel to its Science Institute is an international network formed in 2007 by scholars and practitioners from The country’s largest listed property fund, Ascencia has won in March 2017 February 2017. portfolio across the world with the aim to unite the study and practice of sales and sales management the highly coveted PwC Corporate Reporting Award in the category, Listed around the globe. Companies. This distinction is a tribute to the consistent hard work expended The VLH Group has strengthened its portfolio of a ‘hotel de Porlwi by Light by our Group’s Property Investment sector to ensure high-quality reporting. charme’ with the acquisition of Tamarin Hotel in September Strategy Execution for Business Leaders Our Group supported this year again, for The PwC Corporate Reporting Awards have been established since 1998 2016. Nestled between rolling hills and the preserved bay the second year running, the Festival of of Tamarin, this colourful 66-room three-star hotel is the Some 70 leadership team members of the different business lines of Rogers and Senior to recognize efforts made by companies to improve the presentation and Contemporary Culture, Porlwi by Light, first foray the Veranda Resorts brand on the West coast of Managers of the ENL Group were treated to a masterclass in October 2016 on “Strategy contents of their annual reports. which was held from 2 December to the island. Renamed Hotel Tamarin by Veranda Resorts, the Execution for Business Leaders” with Phil Parker, the Chair Professor of Management Science 4 December 2016. property is set to undergo renovation from early 2018 to at INSEAD, the international business school based in Fontainebleau, France. This was an increase the number of rooms to 100 and take full advantage opportunity for them to work on themes such as objectives, audits, strategic models, strategy of its unique location and concept. execution as well as monitoring and evaluation tools. The interaction that took place has 9 CORPORATE PROFILE Rogers CORPORATE PROFILE 10 Leadership is about having the audacity to make decisive and thoughtful choices. Prakash Luchmun and Jordan Ah Kiow are respectively Corporate Manager – Information Systems and Internal Auditor and play with the employees’ football team. For them, Energy drives leadership into everything they do, at work and off work. Energy drives leadership. 16 Rogers Rogers 12 How would you describe Rogers’ performance in the prevailing economic environment? In line with the Rogers’ strategic Growth in the global and national economy in 2016 remained subdued at 3.1% and 3.8% respectively and roadmap, 2017 was a year that forecasts for the current calendar year indicate an increase to 3.5% and 3.9% respectively. Mauritius remains among the most investment and business-friendly countries in the world. An improved global saw the Group delivering solid investor sentiment has translated into an increase in FDI inflows, and tourist arrivals continue to rise. However, the trade deficit is widening, driving a gradual increase in the current account deficit and our financial results and continuing country is yet to meet the debt target of 50% of GDP by end 2018. to establish the building blocks Our Group navigated this intricate economic environment with agility to deliver an overall good performance. A year-on-year revenue improvement of 6% to Rs 8,663m was mainly driven by the Property for future growth, says the CEO, Investments sector on the back of improved rental rates and the Logistics sector, which benefited from better results and inclusion of a full year’s profit for the Kenya operation. On a consolidated level, the Philippe Espitalier-Noël. Group’s PAT before exceptional items increased by 24% to Rs 975m in the 2017 financial year against Rs 787m in 2016. Higher fair value gains were recorded following the increased rental rates on both Phoenix Mall and Bagatelle Mall. However, results from our Hotels sector were significantly impacted by a 2016 financial year-end adjustment relating to our associate, New Mauritius Hotels (NMH), as further efforts were made to redress optimistic assumptions made by the previous management. The contribution from our Hospitality served market would otherwise have shown a marked improvement in comparison with the 2016 figures. What are your strategic priorities and objectives for Rogers going forward? We carried out a strategic planning exercise in the 2017 financial year to establish our priorities and direction for the coming three-year period. Our three main pillars will be the expansion of our FinTech-related activities, the development of a sizeable leisure business as well as the turnaround of agribusiness activities and a review of our real estate business in the Bel Ombre region. The overall objective is to achieve a balanced share of profit contribution from each of our served markets. We have reviewed the strategic orientation of our FinTech arm with a significant focus on developing new offerings around consumer credit and e-payment through material investment that will allow us to bring in the required competencies and infrastructure. These new disruptive offerings will be launched in the 2018 financial year and are expected to become a major driver of profitability in the next 2-3 years. In addition, we will continue to improve our offering in the Corporate Services segment while pursuing our international diversification strategy. In order to complement our Hospitality offering, we have acquired ENL Lifestyle on 01 July 2017. Now rebranded as Island Living, the entity will operate under our Leisure sector, overseeing the activities of Ocean Basket, Savinia Bistrot, Moka’Z and Voilà Bagatelle, as well as Leisure activities previously managed by Compagnie Sucrière de Bel Ombre and Case Noyale, such as Le Chamarel Restaurant, the Seven Coloured Earth and Frederica Nature Reserve. Island Living is additionally working on a number of projects that are expected to be Interview with the CEO launched in the 2018 financial year. Philippe Espitalier-Noël 13 LEADERSHIP Rogers LEADERSHIP 14 What are the specific challenges that need to be It is opportune to share that for the second time, the Group’s addressed to implement the strategy laid out? responsible and inclusive approach to development has been singled out by the UN for the good work undertaken at national level. Indeed Indeed, over and above broad-scale dynamics, we always have some we are proud to have been included in the Global Compact key challenges to address. The future of our AXA Customer Services International Yearbook 2017 for the work done over the past few joint venture will require attention as the AXA Group reviews its own years with respect to lagoon and marine environment protection. strategic direction. In the Hospitality served market, the Travel sector At a time when some parties are questioning the good work done is moving forward with the digitalisation of its operations, while our by the private sector, we are comforted by this recognition of our associate, NMH is expected to improve its performance on the back of effectiveness and approach toward responsible, sustainable and ongoing efforts to restructure its Moroccan investments. integrated development. On the Logistics front, the main challenge remains the improvement of In conjunction with our different business sectors, we intend to the transport activity, the emerging weakness in the local freight continue integrating the sustainability philosophy into our business forwarding operating conditions, and the need for scale and resilience strategies. The balance between economic, social and environmental of the freight forwarding business in France. goals has become a constant in all our projects. We are also working The development of Domaine de Bel Ombre remains an area of intense hard to reduce our carbon footprint and environmental metrics such focus with the continued allocation of significant resources for the as energy, water and waste consumption are now part of our key future. In the wake of the challenges facing the sugar performance indicators and are monitored and evaluated. As we move forward with our plans to develop our activities, I remain confident that we are well placed to deliver on our objectives of To conclude, how is the Group moving ahead with its growing our presence across our served markets. I would like to thank Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) and our shareholders and Board, my colleagues on the management team, sustainability agenda? all employees across the Rogers Group and our other stakeholders for their contribution and support towards enhancing our value creation We have committed the Group’s CSR funds to the implementation of a and performance. 5-year strategy over the 2013-2018 period to protect the coastal resources of Mauritius. However, following recent changes in the CSR legislation, notably with the requirement to transfer 1% of CSR funds directly to the Mauritius Revenue Authority from January 2018, the Board of our special purpose vehicle, the Rogers Foundation was due to convene on 29 August 2017 to make a decision about any adjustment that may be necessary. As a consequence of the recent changes in the law, the remaining 1% of our CSR funds will be allocated in priority to funding projects that have already been contracted out towards achieving this goal, which include Bis Lamer, Bel Ombre Pedia, the Eco-School Programme and the sea turtle preservation initiative. We will additionally carry on with our support to the community development programme at Cité Sainte Catherine and the NGO, Passerelle’s centre for women in distress. 15 LEADERSHIP Rogers LEADERSHIP 16 Integrated Reporting Forms of Capital Financial Capital Human Capital This integrated report Financial capital refers to resources made available to our Group Human capital relates to competencies, expertise and includes the capitals through equity funding, debt and retained earnings. engagement of our People. identified by the See Page 25 See Page 29 International Integrated Reporting Council (IIRC) that are relevant to Rogers and Company Limited. The capitals are stocks of value that are Social and Natural Capital Intellectual Capital increased, decreased or transformed Social and Natural capital is the Intellectual capital is the intangible through the activities of the organisation. relationship with communities, NGOs value of the organisation such as Throughout this section, we will emphasize and other stakeholders on social culture, brand image, systems the integration of these capitals into our and environmental matters that are and expertise. value creation process while taking into relevant to the sustainability of our organisation within its ecosystem. account our business model, strategic process, business context, material risks and involvement of our various stakeholders. See Page 33 See Page 37 17 Rogers 18 Our Value Creation Map OUTCOMES Financial Human Capital Social and Natural Capital Intellectual Capital (Consolidated Value Added Statement) Value Created • Equity raising • Strong leadership team • Customer relationships • Culture shaping 17% • Debt financing • Skills and career development • Stakeholders’ confidence • Brand and reputation • Reinvestment • Engaged workforce • Corporate Social Responsibility • Systems 16% 50% VALUE IN 2016 Rs 3,171m BUSINESS CONTEXT BUILDING A LEADING SERVICES AND MATERIAL RISKS INVESTMENT BUSINESS FOCUSED ON FOUR 30% Strategic risks SERVED MARKETS 52% • Lack of innovation or development 4% • World economic growth gaining below expectations ; 27% momentum with growth estimated • Ineffective strategic partners at 3.5% and 3.8% in 2017 and 2018 and acquisitions ; 4% respectively, against 3.1% in 2016 ; • Lack of stakeholders’ engagement ; 2017 • Local economic growth to improve COMPETITIVENESS RESILIENCE GROWTH • Productivity • Sustainable Leadership • Organic Focus Financial risks Rs m from 3.8% in 2016 to 3.9% • Financial sustainability ; in 2017 ; • Pricing • Integration • Acquisition Rs m 2017 2016 • Cash flow constraints ; • Pound Sterling remains weak • Process improvement • Capability Building • Disruptive Innovation Revenue 8,663 8,167 Operating risks thereby impacting on the Hospitality • Cost Control • De-risking • New Ventures • Inadequate adherence to terms and Bought-in materials & services (5,018) (4,996) served market ; conditions in contractual agreements ; Total value added 3,645 3,171 • Euro is recovering on the back of • Business continuity issues due to improvement in growth in the EuroSERVED MARKETS major threats ; EMPLOYEES, 52% area and ‘softening’ Dollar; • Skills attraction, performance and Wages, salaries, bonuses, pensions 1,908 1,577 • Low interest rates environment FinTech Hospitality Logistics Property retention of key staff ; & other benefits continue to prevail due to the excess • Theft, fraud and corruption ; GOVERNMENT, 4% liquidity in the monetary system ; Compliance risks Income Tax 145 129 • Inflationary pressures are expected GROUP LEVERAGE • Failure to comply with legal and Values Leadership Financing Branding Risk Management regulatory requirements. PROVIDERS OF CAPITAL, 27% to resurge as from this calendar year. Dividends paid to: Shareholders of Rogers & Co Ltd 232 222 Outside shareholders of Subsidiary 215 194 VALUE OUT Companies Banks & other lenders 539 541 Financial Human Capital Social & Natural Capital Intellectual Capital REINVESTED, 17% • Access to competitive • Top-of-mind employer • Sustainable protection of • Enabling organisation culture which drives Leadership, Depreciation & amortisation 353 325 financial capital • People development natural resources Agility and Dynamism Retained Profit 253 183 • Optimisation of resources (skilled and engaged • Focused support and monitoring • Strong brand image towards served markets employee base) of projects • Robust systems supporting our operations Note: The above statement excludes any amount of Value • Delivering shareholder return • Positive and • Caring community development Added tax paid or collected. empowering climate 19 Rogers 20 Our Served Markets Our Corporate Office Rogers Corporate Office forms an integral part of the Group’s value creation process and is responsible for defining policies and strategy, corporate governance, risk management and the overall success of our organisation. The main functions carried out are Finance, Legal, Risk & Audit, Human Resources and Marketing & Communication. Finance Human Resources The Finance department ensures that the Group’s financial reporting Rogers and Company Limited employs 4,526 people across 53 offices FinTech Hospitality and compliance meet the requirements of International Financial in 13 countries. A skilled and engaged workforce is a key lever of our Reporting Standards (IFRS) and all relevant legislation. In addition, the business strategy. The Corporate Human Resources (HR) department Operating under the Rogers Capital brand, The Hospitality served market provides department provides support both to the Corporate Office and to provides human capital solutions to the business sectors, including our FinTech platform provides services in the a vertical integration of services which our sectors in accounting, taxation and treasury management. The acting as assessment centre for recruitment and selection, developing following sectors: includes Hotels, Travel and Leisure. Through department also proposes corporate finance services to the Group, critical skills through the Rogers Academy, sustaining engagement operations in VLH and a 22.76% equity which include investment appraisal, funding of projects, strategic at work and facilitating change initiatives within the Group. The • Corporate Services (Fiduciary, planning and assistance on mergers and acquisitions. Corporate HR team also delivers external human capital consulting investment in NMH, Rogers is a major Outsourcing and Consulting); services ranging from learning and development solutions to player in the tourism industry accounting Legal • Technology Services (Integrated engagement surveys and organisation development interventions. for more than 20% of total rooms available Business Solutions, Cloud Computing in Mauritius. Rogers Legal acts as the backbone of the Group with regards to legal, Marketing & Communication and Connectivity Services); regulatory and compliance matters. It assists the Group on mergers and acquisitions, including advising on investments and disinvestments, The Marketing and Communication department is the voice of the • Financial Services is the emerging sector drafting and vetting of contractual documents and registration and company and its brands. It caters for various internal and external with consumer credit and electronic renewal of marks. In concert with external lawyers, it ensures that the marketing and communications needs, and is responsible for applying payment services. legal interests of the Group are safeguarded. the relevant offline and online tactics to maintain an appropriate level of engagement with stakeholders, including business and trade Risk & Audit journalists, industry and financial analysts, investors, shareholders, The Risk & Audit department provides assurance to the Board that customers, employees and the community at large. adequate controls are in place to safeguard the Group’s income Crafting and implementing marketing strategies, devising branding and assets. In addition, it ensures that risks are identified, assessed campaigns, creating advertising and artwork, planning and managing and mitigated so as to enable operational and financial success. A events, conducting public relations or shouldering crisis management risk-based internal auditing approach allows determining the most are a few of the services that the Marketing and Communication Logistics Property efficient use of the department’s resources and ensures that the Department provides to our sectors. As of 2017, the Marketing most significant residual risks are addressed as a matter of priority. and Communication Department was reorganised to include the Our logistics arm, Velogic provides an The property portfolio includes our 40.15% In addition, the department acts as a business advisor and assists Corporate Social Responsibility, Sustainable Development and integrated logistics platform with services equity investment in Ascencia, the largest Management where possible in achieving its strategic goals. Project Management. consolidated under Port Services, Freight property fund listed on the Stock Exchange Forwarding, Shipping and Sugar Packaging. of Mauritius, as well as our agricultural, property and leisure activities carried out at the Domaine de Bel Ombre. 21 Rogers 22 Strategic Plan Process Our Group carries out a yearly exercise to prepare and approve its budget for the following financial year, and also its 3-year rolling strategic plan. The process starts in the 3rd quarter of the financial year with the Corporate Office providing the assumptions, guidelines and strategic orientation to the respective sectors. The respective sectors under the leadership of their respective Chief Executive Officers prepare their strategic plan while taking into consideration the business objectives, HR strategy, risks and detailed action plans. The strategic plans are then presented to the Rogers Executive Team (RET) and Corporate Office members. The RET is under the leadership of Philippe Espitalier-Noël and is composed of the sectors’ CEOs and Function Executives of Rogers. The RET and Corporate Office review the budget and strategic plan and provide their recommendations to each sector. Once the strategic plan is validated, it is presented to the Board of Directors of each respective sector, and the financial forecasts and strategic plan are consolidated at Corporate Office level. The consolidated budget and strategic plan are presented for approval to the Board of Rogers, which reviews the strategic orientation and resource allocation. Approve strategic ROGERS BOARD OF DIRECTORS orientation & resource allocation Approve and consolidate ROGERS EXECUTIVE TEAM & CORPORATE OFFICE business plan SERVED MARKETS FINTECH HOSPITALITY LOGISTICS PROPERTY SECTORS • Financial Services • Hotels • Logistics Solutions • Property Investments Define strategic • Corporate Services • Travel • Property objectives, opportunities and prepare business & • Technology Services • Leisure Development action plans & Agribusiness 23 Rogers 24 Financial Capital Stakeholders Strategic Response Outcome • Investors on the Stock Exchange • An experienced Board of Directors • Communication on a quarterly Financial capital refers to resources made of Mauritius and minorities of subsidiaries; consisting of Executive and NonExecutive Directors to encompass basis of financial performance, with at-a-glance graphics and available to our Group through equity • Providers of debt capital. the whole spectrum of the Group’s activities; salient explanation of sectors’ performance and outlook, through the Stock Exchange of Mauritius, funding, debt and retained earnings • An established Risk Management and Audit Committee (RMAC) the press, our website and social media; which oversees the soundness of financial reporting; • An update to our Group’s 3-year strategic plan to 2020 was carried • Financial performance is reported in out and approved by the Board in a timely manner to the authorities June 2017; and to the public on a quarterly basis. Presentation format is • We presented our half-yearly and reviewed continuously to align full-year results in our Investors’ with best international practices. Briefing which targeted mainly fund Additional resources have been managers, stockbrokers, bankers deployed in the Communication and other financial experts; Department to enhance • A Review Committee ensures communication through our adequate communication of Stakeholder Expectations website and other forms of media; sector performance; • Sustainable growth in • An updated medium-term strategic • Use of cheaper short-term debt as shareholders’ equity; plan guides the resource allocation to opposed to long-term debt; sectors, both in terms of investment • Growth in dividend yield; and working capital needs; • We maintain investment in new • Responsible corporate governance; business activities in the existing • Our Group operates on a served markets. • Sustainable interest cover and decentralized basis and the debt levels; Treasury function at the Corporate Office constantly monitors cost of • Adequate liquidity position. funds to ensure its optimal use; • We have outsourced competencies to assist with strategic planning. 25 Rogers 26 Financial Capital HIGHLIGHTS OF FINANCIAL EVENTS FINANCIAL DATA SHARE PRICE EVOLUTION MONTH FINANCIAL EVENTS Rs m 2017 2016 Rogers shares are traded on the Official Market of the Stock Exchange of Mauritius. Revenue 8,663 8,167 Oct-16 • VLH acquired 51% of Tamarin Hotel; EBITDA* 2,014 1,782 • Investors Briefing – Presentation of Final Results FY 2016; Profit after Tax (PAT)* 975 787 Share Performance Nov-16 • Release of First Quarter Results FY 2017; Attributable Earnings 485 405 Base 100: 01 July 2016 Earnings per Share (EPS)* 1.35 1.35 • Declaration of Interim Dividend of Rs 0.32 per Dec-16 share (2016: Rs 0.32); Dividends per Share (DPS) 0.92 0.88 • Rogers increased its shareholding in New Net Asset Value per Share 40.83 37.60 Number of shares Jan-17 Mauritius Hotels (NMH) to 19.36% triggering a mandatory offer over NMH; Debt/Equity 0.52 0.54 Feb-17 • Release of Second Quarter Results FY 2017; • Investors Briefing – Presentation of Half-Year Rs / % 2017 2016 Results FY 2017; Share Price as at 30 June 29.00 28.00 • Following the mandatory offer, Rogers acquired 125 Mar-17 an additional 3.4% stake in NMH, thereby Market Capitalisation (Rsm) 7,309 7,057 increasing its shareholding to 22.76%; 120 Price Earnings Ratio (PER)* 21.48 20.74 May-17 • Release of Third Quarter Results FY 2017; Dividend Yield 3.2% 3.1% 115 • Declaration of Final Dividend of Rs 0.60 per share Semdex Jun-17 Discount to NAV 29% 26% 110 (2016: Rs 0.56); * Excluding exceptional items RCL Share Price 105 Sep-17 • Release of Full-Year Results for FY 2017. 100 95 90 85 80 Jul-16 Sep-16 Dec-16 Mar-17 Jun-17 27 Rogers 28 Human Capital Stakeholders Outcome Human capital relates to • Our workforce, prospective employees, trainees and alumni. Human Capital Demographics competencies, expertise and engagement of our People Stakeholder Expectations • Career development opportunities; • Personal and professional development (training, coaching, mentoring and Employees cross-exposure); 13 Countries 4 Served Markets • Job satisfaction and recognition; • Market-related terms of employment and benefits; • A safe, sound and enabling work environment. Mean Age of our workforce = Strategic Response years • Career development opportunities within the Group; Average Tenure = 6 years • Internal mobility and career progression philosophy; • Culture-building programmes across sectors; • Group-wide skills development initiatives; • Competitive remuneration and employment conditions; • Pension benefits, medical plan and insurance cover provided to all employees; % • Group Code of Ethics and personal conduct; • Annual health & wellness events; • Group-wide engagement surveys and action plans; of our workforce • Rogers Leaders Award and sector-specific recognition programs. is based in Mauritius 29 Rogers 30 Human Capital Outcome Human Capital Demographics Headcount by Served Market Gender Distribution Human Capital Development & Value-Add Training focus areas 2,480 1% 7% Employees trained 9% 69 for a total of 397 23% 31% 35% 14% 37% 618 41% 54% 52% 47% 58% 2,118 Man Hours 29% 1,324 Soft skills (People, Leadership, Team Building) Hospitality Logistics FinTech 69% 59% Technical skills IT & Digital skills 63% 77% 48% Property Corporate 46% MUR 26M Training Hours per FTE Our investments in Headcount by Employee Category training covered Rogers Group 13 9% Corporate 44 % Rogers Corporate FinTech Hospitality Logistics Property Group FinTech 22 Male Female Hospitality 16 Invested in Training & Logistics 3 Development across the group of our employee base 53% 38% Property 2 Generations by Served Market 7% 4% 8% 4% 3% 12% Employee Value Add (Gross profit/Staff costs 2.3 per employee) by Served Market Training Investment by Served Market Operatives Staff Managers 33% 44% 13,209,858 45% 51% 91% 1.8 54% Headcount by Generations 85% 7% 13% 6,927,672 69% 1.4 34% 64% 31% 33% 29% 51% 29% 31% 2,190,280 28% 2,721,719 3% 16% 21% 11% 828,460 0.2 13% 18% 7% 30% Baby Boomers Gen Y Rogers Corporate FinTech Hospitality Logistics Property FinTech Hospitality Logistics Property Corporate FinTech Hospitality Logistics Property (1946-1964) (1977-1995) Group Training Investment (Rs) % Employees Trained Development Gen X Gen Z (>1995) Baby Boomers Gen X Gen Y Gen Z & Agribusiness (1965-1976) 31 Rogers 32 Social and Natural Capital Stakeholders Stakeholder Expectations Strategic Response • Communities & NGOs, • Responsible corporate citizenship, • Cooperation and networking with Government, employees, clients integral to the communities and the authorities and private sector; and service providers. the environments in which our • Impact significantly one area of businesses operate; national concern based on wide • Responsiveness to concerns stakeholder dialogue, e.g. the and impacts on social and protection of coastal resources; environmental issues; • Commitment to finding • Access to job and supplier beneficial solutions to identified opportunities; social concerns like poverty and education; • Operations conducted in a safe and lawful manner; • Effective coordination of our CSR initiatives with the • Investment in community aim of improving the socioinfrastructure and development; economic conditions within • Contributing responsibly and neighbouring communities. transparently to broader Social and Natural capital is the societal interests. relationship with communities, NGOs, and other stakeholders on social and Our 2013-2018 Survey Following the 2013 baseline study, we A 50% increase in overall knowledge of respondents Clear perception that the No. 1 polluters are environmental matters that are relevant have carried out in 2016 a mid-term on environmental issues individuals, and that plants and animals have the same survey analysis of changes in Knowledge, Knowledge Perception rights as humans to exist Perception, Attitude and Behaviour of to the sustainability of our organisation Mauritian citizens based on a Rogers Group Staff survey. within its ecosystem A slow 5% change in 94% of respondents are behaviour yet 12% of people now concerned and are are more concerned to Behaviour Attitude ready to make sacrifices, take part in environmental and 57% will deal campaigns, and are more with polluters careful in their use and acquisition of transport 33 Rogers 34 Social and Natural Capital Outcomes/Actions Protection of Coastal Resources of Mauritius Other initiatives carried out by our Sectors Travel Our Group maintains its commitment to reducing the impact of human activities on the coastal areas of the island through various ongoing Rogers Aviation set up a CSR/Sustainability Team that developed FinTech programmes. an action plan with a view to promote and disseminate green The FinTech Sector supported a competitive financial education habits throughout its various departments. A few of the measures ‘Bis Lamer’ Project with Reef Conservation (Fourth Year) Bel Ombre Pedia programme for youth with Junior Achievement Mascareignes as well concerned recycling (paper, cell phones, plastic bottle caps) and as a programme for children with learning disabilities by the Elle C energy saving (by monitoring the company’s energy consumption for ‘Bis Lamer’, the class on wheels fitted with interactive tools and Reef Conservation biologists and zoologists are gathering Nous Association. They also funded a Golf for All project intended air conditioning, computers, etc.). PATS and Yacht Management also laboratory equipment and promoting education about marine and comprehensive scientific and pedagogical information about fauna for underprivileged children and equipment for La Caverne Athletics set up waste management projects. environmental issues has, from July 2014 to this day, reached more and flora species around the region of Bel Ombre, which will soon be Club. Furthermore, employees participated in 4 beach and river bank than 23,288 students and adults. The Reef Conservation team has available online, based on the Wikipedia model. This project follows Logistics clean-up activities accompanied by the Belle Verte social enterprise. visited schools, community centres, shopping malls and beaches. a major land survey undertaken on the southern coastal region. The need to understand the interaction between the fauna and flora Velogic made significant contributions to the community by helping https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9IbrKr05Wqs Hotels species is essential to our ecological goals. the ‘Association communautaire de Cité Jonction’, Pailles through a Both Heritage Resorts hotels received the Green Key label, which is youth literacy programme. They supported the fundraising for the Eco-School Project (Second Year) Meda Ayur Yoga Peetha Programme a voluntary eco-labels awarded to hotels that promote sustainable Malagasy people who were affected by the cyclone Enawo. The Eco-School Project, which is part of a worldwide initiative, was set tourism, for example by rationalizing water consumption. Our fivecompany also set up three sponsoring programmes to support a The Mauritius Education Development Association (MEDA) teaches up with the help of Reef Conservation in Mauritius. It focuses on star resorts satisfied the conditions for obtaining this certification, family whose home was destroyed by a fire, a child with learning the community how to use local plants for health purposes derived environmental education of schoolchildren through fun and actionwhich has to be renewed annually. disabilities and a women’s kickboxing championship. from Ayurvedic principles and concepts. This programme relies oriented learning programmes. For the second consecutive year, the on motivating each learner to share the knowledge they gathered Employees further contributed to beach clean-up activities and ‘Bis Property Development & Agribusiness Rogers Group rewarded the schools that have implemented the most with other members of the community, hence spreading the Lamer’ awareness sessions. Staff and guests at Heritage Awali Golf & encouraging programmes. CSBO was instrumental in the setting up of a ‘Centre d’éveil’ concept. Till now, 200 citizens have been trained in Goodlands and Spa Resort namely participated in a tree planting activity on Earth Day. https://youtu.be/8Z_qAraOMfg Chemin Grenier. for toddlers under the aegis of Caritas in Bel Ombre through its Veranda Resorts funded the project launched by the NGO and PAWS participation in improving the infrastructure. The company also Sea-Turtle Preservation Network (Second Year) Tikoulou to encourage villagers in the Grand Gaube region to participate in a funded Saint Jacques RCA, a primary school in Chamarel, and further dog sterilization programme. Moreover, the hotel group extended engaged in a support programme for teenagers from the village. The protection of endangered sea turtles on Mauritian shores is Tikoulou is an inquisitive fictional character created by Henri assistance for another year to Jean Eon RCA School, which forms still a major concern for NGOs, the private sector and relevant Koombes for a storybook explaining how to cope with pollution and part of the ‘Zone d’Éducation Prioritaire’ (ZEP). The group also authorities, among which the Mauritius Marine Conservation Society, other human-induced modifications. The fourteenth comic book in hosted a Belle Verte awareness session at Veranda Paul & Virginie Reef Conservation and the Ministry of Ocean Economy, Marine the collection, ‘La Légende de Bel Ombre’, was specially designed Hotel & Spa as well as a Flower Day in the village of Grand Gaube. Resources and Fisheries. An educational booklet was produced by REEF Conservation’s staff to convey an essential ecological and released in schools. Furthermore, coastal inhabitants are being message to schoolchildren and adults alike: our different ecosystems sensitized about the dangers of poaching and nesting sites have also need close and constant monitoring in order to cope with pollution. been safeguarded. Learning becomes a fun activity as readers discover wetlands, marshes, forests and rivers. 35 Rogers 36 Intellectual Capital Stakeholders Outcome • Clients, suppliers, principals, authorities, financial Culture institutions, media and investors. ‘A unique culture which blends Leadership, Agility and Dynamism’ • Culture is the way we act collectively. Culture is intangible and yet it is what defines us as an exceptional organisation; • Being part of Rogers is about being part of a unique tribe and embracing a culture which Stakeholder Expectations blends a diversity of agile and competent people; • Strong brand image and reputation; • Our culture which we term as ‘The Rogers Way’ is driven by our core purpose, our values and the • Representation of internationally recognized brands; Art of Being and Doing. • Customer satisfaction through interacting processes; Brands • Innovating capabilities; ‘We believe that Rogers remains a strong investment brand’ • Adherence to intellectual property rights such as Patents and Trade Marks; • Enhanced brand image through the “Energy Drives Everything” campaign; • Staff competencies and skills. • Focus on long-term partners; • Represent some 52 local and international brands; • Strong sub-brands that are closer to the market. Intellectual capital is the intangible Strategic Response Systems value of the organisation such as • Focus on communication with coordination at all levels; ‘As a listed Company we place much emphasis on robust systems to support our businesses’ culture, brand image, systems • Adopt a decentralized structure with delegation • Establishment of a process to obtain useful of authorities to the CEOs and Management information on brand image and customer loyalty; team of our sectors; and expertise • Customer Relationship Management in place; • Our Rogers Management Model focuses on the performance and development of our People; • Investment in skills, processes and technology; • Structured Systems and Processes which drives • Strategy for Culture, Brand Positioning and Systems. operational excellence across our sectors. 37 Rogers 38 Energy drives happiness every day and is the source of our success. It is not inexhaustible and must occasionally be revived. Energy drives happiness. 39 Rogers 40 Statement of Compliance Corporate Governance Report (Section 75(3) of the Financial Reporting Act) 1. COMPLIANCE STATEMENT Name of PIE: ROGERS AND COMPANY LIMITED For the year under review, Rogers and Company Limited (“Rogers” or the “Company”) has complied with the provisions of the Code of Corporate Reporting Period: 01 July 2016 30 June 2017 Governance for Mauritius (the “Code”) save that no board or director evaluation was conducted. The Board had previously resolved that such exercise be carried out once every two years. The last board evaluation was conducted in June 2016. We, the directors of Rogers and Company Limited, confirm that to the best of our knowledge, the PIE has not complied with Section 2.10 of the Report on Corporate Governance for Mauritius. Reasons for non-compliance are set out in Paragraphs 1 and 3.3 of the Corporate Governance 2. ABOUT THE COMPANY Report of the PIE. 2.1 Shareholders SIGNED BY: 2.1.1 Holding structure and common directors As at 30 June 2017, the substantial shareholders of Rogers were Rogers Consolidated Shareholding Limited (“RCSL”), ENL Land Limited (“ENLL”) and the National Pensions Fund, which respectively held 53.00%, 6.73%, and 5.50% of the issued share capital of the Company. RCSL is wholly owned by ENLL, which is itself a subsidiary of ENL Ltd. The ultimate holding entity of ENL Ltd is Société Caredas, a “société civile” registered in Mauritius. Jean-Pierre Montocchio Philippe Espitalier-Noël Chairman Director & CEO The common directors at each level are set out in Table 1. 14 September 2017 41 GOVERNANCE AT ROGERS Rogers 42 2.1.2 Share Ownership 2.1.3 Constitution As at 30 June 2017, the Company had 2,607 shareholders. The salient features of the Company’s constitution are highlighted below: A breakdown of the categories of shareholders and the share ownership as at 30 June 2017 are set out below: Ownership restrictions Unclaimed Dividends Breakdown by category • No shareholder, other than those existing before its adoption, • All dividends unclaimed for a period of five years after having shall hold more than 10% of the issued share capital of the been declared shall be forfeited and shall revert to the Company. 1% 2% 2% Company without the prior authorisation of the Board. 8% How far new shares to rank with shares in original capital Number of directors • Except so far as otherwise provided by the conditions of issue, or • The number of directors shall not be less than twelve (12) or by the Company’s constitution, any capital raised by the creation Individuals more than fifteen (15) and the directors shall be appointed by of new shares shall be considered part of the original capital, 87% Insurance and Assurance Companies the Company in General Meeting. and shall be subject to the provisions herein contained with Pensions and Provident Funds reference to the payment of calls and installments, transfer and Investment and Trust Companies • The Company may, from time to time, by ordinary resolution transmission, forfeiture, lien, surrender and otherwise. Other Corporate Bodies increase or reduce the number of directors in office and may alter their qualifications, if any. Proceedings at General Meetings Special Business No share qualification is required for a directorship • All business shall be deemed special that is transacted at an Extraordinary General • It shall not be necessary for a director to hold any share in the Meeting, and also all business that is transacted at an Annual Company for the purpose of qualifying him for appointment as a General Meeting, with the exception of the consideration of director of the Company. the accounts, balance sheets and the reports of the directors Number of shares Number of shareholders Number of shares owned % of total issued shares Power to increase capital and Auditors, the election of directors in place of those retiring and the appointment of, and the fixing of the remuneration of • The Company may from time to time by ordinary resolution 1 5000 1,500 2,126,223 0.84 the Auditors. increase the share capital by such sum to be divided into shares 5,001 10,000 302 2,325,427 0.92 of such amount as the Resolution shall prescribe. Casting Vote Rights to Dividends and Apportionment • In the case of an equality of votes whether on a show of hands 10,001 100,000 643 17,745,627 7.04 or on a poll, the Chairman of the meeting at which the show of • All dividends shall be apportioned and paid proportionately to the 100,001 500,000 81 16,648,448 6.61 hands has taken place or at which the poll is demanded shall be amount paid or credited as paid on the shares during any portion entitled to a casting vote. 500,001 1000,000 17 10,887,651 4.32 or portions of the period in respect of which the dividend is paid, but if any share is issued on terms providing that it shall rank 1,000,0014,000,000 14 26,391,804 10.47 for dividend as from a particular date, such share shall rank for dividend accordingly. 4,000,0016,000,000 1 4,097,620 1.63 6,000,00110,000,000 1 7,423,650 2.95 Over 10,000,000 3 164,398,850 65.23 TOTAL 2,562* 252,045,300 100.00 * Note: The above number of shareholders is indicative, due to consolidation of multi portfolios for reporting purposes. The total number of active shareholders as at 30 June 2017 was 2,607. 43 GOVERNANCE AT ROGERS Rogers 44 2.1.4 Shareholder communication and events 2.2 The board of directors Rogers communicates with its shareholders through its Annual Report, Investors’ News, published unaudited quarterly results, dividend declarations and yearly Annual Meeting of Shareholders. The Executive Team of Rogers meets the investor community twice yearly to brief them 2.2.1 Composition of the Board on the Company’s strategy, financial performance, investments and disinvestments. Rogers is headed by a unitary board comprising twelve directors, under the chairmanship of Mr Jean-Pierre Montocchio, who has no executive responsibilities. For the year under review, the key events and shareholder communication of Rogers are set out below: The board composition is as follows: October 2016 December 2016 February 2017 May 2017 Balance Length of tenure Average Age Annual Meeting of Declaration of Interim • Second quarter results Third quarter results Shareholders dividend • Investors’ Briefing 17% 25% 33.33% 33.33% 50% 50% 33% 25% 33.33% Non-Executive 1-5 years <50 years Executive 6-15 years 50-60 years Independent >15 years >60 years November 2016 January 2017 March 2017 June 2017 July 2017 First quarter results • Payment of Interim Joint communique by Declaration of Final Payment of Final The Corporate Governance Committee, acting in its capacity as Nomination Committee, reviewed the composition of the Board in April 2017 and dividend ENLL and Rogers on the dividend dividend July 2017 respectively. number of shares acquired • Joint communiques by The Board has a broad range of skills, expertise and experience ranging from accounting, banking and commercial to tourism, logistics, financial in NMH further to the ENLL and Rogers on and legal matters. mandatory offer made to acquisition of effective minority shareholders. The Chairman of the Board is elected by his fellow directors and is responsible for leading the Board and its effectiveness. The functions and control of NMH and responsibilities of the Chairman and Chief Executive are separate. mandatory offer to minority shareholders The Chief Executive is contractually responsible for: of NMH a) developing and recommending the long-term vision and strategy of the Group; b) generating shareholder value; 2.1.5 Dividend Policy c) maintaining positive, reciprocal relations with relevant stakeholders; Rogers has no formal dividend policy. Payment of dividend is subject to the profitability of Rogers, its foreseeable investment, capital expenditure and working capital requirements. For the year under review, the Company declared an interim dividend of Rs 0.32 per share and a final dividend of Rs 0.60 per share (as compared to Rs 0.32 and Rs 0.56 respectively for the previous year). 2.1.6 Share price information For more information on the share price of Rogers, please refer to our Annual Report on www.rogers.mu 45 GOVERNANCE AT ROGERS Rogers 46 d) creating the appropriate human resources framework to identify the right resources, train them, make them excel in performance and a) separate sub-holding boards have been set up at sectorial level; maintain a positive team spirit; b) separate Corporate Governance and Risk Management and Audit Committees have also been set up at the level of Ascencia Limited due to e) formulating and monitoring budgets and financials of the Group; and the nature, size and specificity of its business; and f) establishing the optimum internal control and Risk Management framework to safeguard the assets of the Group. c) the governance, risk and audit issues relating to the business activities of the subsidiaries of Rogers operating in the Fintech, Hospitality, Logistics, Property (excluding Ascencia Limited) sectors are overseen by the CGC and the RMAC. 2.2.2 Role of the Board The Board is accountable and responsible for the performance and affairs of the Group. Its role includes the determination, review and monitoring of the Group’s strategic plan, monitoring of the Group’s financial performance against budget, approval of key acquisitions/disposals and capital expenditure. The Board is also responsible for the Group’s Risk Management and internal control processes. 2.2.3 Board deliberations (a) Meeting Schedule The Board meets at least six times yearly and additional meetings are convened as and when required. The Board promotes, encourages and expects open and frank discussions at meetings. Board meetings provide a forum for challenging and constructive debate. Directors are expected to attend each board meeting and each meeting of the committees of which they are members, unless there are exceptional circumstances that prevent them from so doing. The Chairman and the Chief Executive, in collaboration with the Company Secretaries, agree the meeting agendas to ensure adequate coverage of key issues during the year. 3. GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE The Board has set up a Corporate Governance Committee (‘CGC’) and a Risk Management and Audit Committee (‘RMAC’) to assist in the discharge of its duties. The functions and responsibilities of each committee are outlined in their respective written terms of reference which have been approved by the Board. These terms of reference meet the requirements of the Code and are reviewed each year. These are available on the Rogers’ website (www.rogers.mu). The chairmen of both committees report orally on the proceedings of their respective committees at the board meetings of the Company. The minutes of proceedings of the meetings of the RMAC are included in the board pack distributed to the board members in advance of board meetings. With a view to improving the decision-making process and accountability within the Group, Rogers has adopted the following governance framework with regards to its subsidiaries: 47 GOVERNANCE AT ROGERS Rogers 48 A summary of the key mandate of these committees as well as their composition is set out below: 3.1 Board Charter 3.6 Employee Remuneration Board of directors The Board is of the view that the responsibilities of the directors are Salaries are generally determined by a combination of internal equity, already set out in the Company’s constitution, the Companies Act external competitiveness and performance of the employee. Every two 2001, the respective terms of reference of the CGC and RMAC as well years, remuneration surveys are carried out so as to benchmark with as the Code. Hence, adopting a board charter is deemed a redundant practices in the relevant industries. This is used to review and update Corporate Governance Committee Risk Management and Audit Committee administrative layer. The Board has consequently resolved not to adopt internal salary scales and benefits bands across the Group. (‘CGC’) (‘RMAC’) a charter. Also acts as Remuneration and Nomination Committees Ensures that: 4. DIRECTORS’ INTERESTS AND REMUNERATION • Makes recommendations to the Board on all corporate • All risks are reviewed and managed to an acceptable level in the business 3.2 Director Induction and Board Access to PHILOSOPHY governance provisions to be adopted so that the Board remains • All internal accounting, administrative and risk control procedures are Information and Advice effective and complies with prevailing corporate governance principles and practices. designed to provide ongoing assurance that assets are safeguarded On appointment to the Board and/or its committees, directors receive 4.1 Interests of Directors • Transactions are executed and recorded in accordance with the Company’s • Ensures that the disclosure requirements with regard to a comprehensive induction pack from the Company Secretaries and an All directors, including the Chairman, declare their direct and indirect corporate governance, whether in the Annual Report or policy induction programme is organised to introduce the newly elected noninterests in the shares of Rogers. They moreover follow the Model other reports on an ongoing basis, are in accordance with the Reviews: principles of the applicable Code. executive directors to the Group’s businesses and Senior Executives. Code for Securities Transactions as detailed in Appendix 6 of the Stock Mandate • Important accounting issues Exchange of Mauritius Listing Rules whenever they deal in the shares • Makes recommendations to the Board on all new Board All directors have access to the Company Secretaries and to the Senior appointments. • Changes in the legislation that will give rise to changes in practice of the Company. Executives to discuss issues or to obtain information on specific areas • Reviews through a formal process the balance and effectiveness • Compliance with regard to specific disclosures in the financial statements or items to be considered at board meetings or any other area they There were no dealings in the shares of the Company by the directors of the Board • Quarterly, preliminary and annual reports as well as any other financial consider appropriate. for the year under review. • Develops a policy on executive remuneration and for fixing reports. the remuneration and benefit packages of individual directors, Furthermore, the directors have access to the records of the Company within agreed terms of reference, to avoid potential conflicts of and they have the right to request independent professional advice at 4.2 Non-Executive Directors’ Remuneration interest. the expense of the Company. The Board and its committees also have The fees paid to non-executive directors have been recommended to • Makes recommendations to the Board in respect of remuneration of non-executive directors. the authority to secure the attendance at meetings of third parties the Board by the CGC (acting as the Remuneration Committee) based with relevant experience and expertise as and when required. on a survey carried out by an independent consultant in 2004. Such The Committee shall be composed of 4 non-executive members of the The members shall consist of not less than three nor more than five Directors fees have since been reviewed in 2007 and anew in December 2012. Composition as Board and the CEO. appointed by the Board, who shall be non-executive Directors and preferably 3.3 Board Performance Review independent nonexecutive Directors. The fees are calculated in the following manner: (a) a basic monthly per Terms of As far as possible: (a) the Committee shall be substantially composed of independent non-executive directors; and (b) the aspiration is that the The Chairperson of the Board shall not be the Chairperson of the RMAC. For the year under review, no board or director evaluation was fee; and (b) an attendance fee. Committee members are paid a Reference chairperson of the Committee should be an independent non-executive conducted as the Board had previously resolved that such exercise monthly fee only. The Chairman of the Board and the chairmen of the director. be carried out once every two years. The last board evaluation was board committees are paid a higher monthly fee. conducted in June 2016. 4.3 Executive Directors’ Remuneration 3.4 Indemnities and Insurance The executive directors are not remunerated for serving on the Board A directors’ and officers’ liability insurance policy has been subscribed and its committees. Their remuneration package as employees of the to and renewed by Rogers. The policy provides cover for the risks Company, including their performance bonus, which are aligned to arising out of the acts or omissions of the Directors and Officers market rates, are disclosed in the table below. of Rogers Group. The cover does not provide insurance against The performance bonuses which are payable are subject to the fraudulent, malicious or wilful acts or omissions. performance of the Company as well as the job holder and could go up to 50% of the annual basic salary. 3.5 Share Option Scheme There is no employee share option scheme at the level of the Company. 49 GOVERNANCE AT ROGERS Rogers 50 Corporate Governance Report 5. INTERNAL CONTROL, INTERNAL AUDIT AND RISK MANAGEMENT The internal control systems of Rogers, the activities of the Risk and Audit Department and the Risk Management process of the Group are explained from pages 57 to 71. 6. Policies (a) Code of Ethics Rogers has adopted a Code of Ethics which spells out the general obligations and business etiquette employees are encouraged to abide by. No breach of ethics was reported for the year under review. (b) Equal Opportunities In line with section 9 of the Equal Opportunities Act 2008 and the Guidelines issued by the Equal Opportunities Commission pursuant to Section 27(3)(f) of the Act, Rogers has adopted an Equal Opportunities Policy with the aim of: • creating an environment that promotes equal opportunities for its employees and potential employees; • minimising the risks of discrimination towards employees and potential employees; and • promoting selection, recruitment, employment, promotion, learning and development on the basis of merit. No complaints were recorded on the above matters for the year under review. (c) Malpractice Reporting A Malpractice Reporting Policy setting out the process whereby information relating to questionable practices within the Company is disclosed in good faith by employees was adopted in 2010. No malpractice was reported for the year under review. (d) Data Protection Rogers Group adopted a Data Protection Policy in 2010 setting out the obligations of data controllers and data processors within the Group in handling personal data as well as compliance with data protection procedures under the Data Protection Act 2004. 51 GOVERNANCE AT ROGERS Rogers 52 Corporate Governance Report No breach of data protection was recorded for the year under review. (e) Health and Safety The ANSI/AIHA Z10-2012 safety management system (SMS) is being used currently across the Group. As there are demands for more internationally recognised SMS from partners abroad, the Company is evaluating the impact and relevancy of switching to ISO 450000 standard. 6.4 Related Party Transactions For details on related party transactions, please refer to the Annual Report on www.rogers.mu 6.5 Management Agreements There are no management agreements between third parties (where such third party is a director of Rogers, or a Company owned or controlled by a director of Rogers) and Rogers. 6.6 Donations For political and charitable donations, please refer to the Annual Report on www.rogers.mu Aruna Radhakeesoon Company Secretary 14 September 2017 53 GOVERNANCE AT ROGERS Rogers 54 The team from Heritage Resorts Energy drives sustainability. during a beach clean-up at Bel Ombre, showing that it is our duty to contribute to the sustainable development of our economy. We regularly conduct regional and national actions to raise awareness of the importance of protecting our coasts and lagoon. 55 Rogers 56 Our Integrated Integrated Risk Management Managing Future 1 Risk Overview 2 Risk Management Framework 3 Our Top Risks 4 Orientation Independent Chairman’s Statement Risk Management & Audit Committee (RMAC) Approach the year, the RMAC has focused on the evaluation of the effectiveness “The foundation for an integrated risk At Rogers, Energy is focused on the pursuit of defined strategic of internal control and risk management system and reviewed the financial reporting, audit issues and health and safety environment. management framework has been laid. objectives with the aim of accelerating sustainable shareholder There was no material shortcoming in the design and effectiveness of value creation. During this financial year, the Group has continued Its implementation is in progress and to evolve its approach towards more effective governance and risk internal controls, governance and risk management reported during the year. Moreover, no other significant events occurred which its completion remains a priority. Rogers management. The foundation for an integrated risk management framework has been laid. Its implementation is in progress and its prevented the RMAC from discharging its responsibilities according to continues to be more focused and proactive in completion remains a priority. Rogers continues to be more focused its mandate. and proactive in anticipating changes and mitigating risks, hence The new Code of Corporate Governance has been issued in January anticipating changes and mitigating risks, hence reinforcing its strong risk awareness culture. Emphasis is being placed 2017 and will be implemented across the Group in conjunction with on embedding risk management, where risks are identified at an early reinforcing its strong risk awareness culture.” stage and integrated into key decision-making processes in line with the update of the RMAC charter where appropriate. the strategic objectives. Aspecial thank you to the RMAC members, the Group’s Chief Vivian Masson Employees have been empowered, motivated and encouraged to Executive Officer, the Management team, the External Auditors, and Acting Chairman the Risk & Audit team for their constant support and commitment take initiatives and be proactive, thus enhancing their capability to throughout the year. Risk Management and Audit Committee anticipate risks. Proactive risk management enables Rogers’ talented teams to act in a coordinated manner and to grasp opportunities, which is the backbone of the integrated risk management framework. The RMAC believes that risk awareness and risk management are Managing fundamental to all actions given the diversified activities in different Risk Overview Our Top Risks geographical locations and legal frameworks within which the Vivian Masson Group operates. Acting Chairman Risk Management and Audit Committee Focus of the RMAC The RMAC is governed by a charter which sets out the objectives and 1 2 3 4 terms of reference. The Committee has continued to play an important oversight role in the risk management activities of the Group. During Our Integrated Risk Management Future Orientation Framework 57 GOVERNANCE AT ROGERS Rogers 58 Integrated Risk Management Our Integrated Managing Future Our Integrated Managing Future 1 Risk Overview 2 Risk Management Framework 3 Our Top Risks 4 Orientation 1 Risk Overview 2 Risk Management Framework 3 Our Top Risks 4 Orientation Our Integrated Risk Management Framework Risk Management and Audit Committee The Board of Rogers and sectorial Boards are responsible for ensuring Significant inherent risks that need to be managed are identified by that risks are managed effectively within the Group. The RMAC is Chief Executive Officers (CEOs), Chief Finance Officers (CFOs) and mandated by the Board for the review of the effectiveness of the risk Management team at sectorial level. Average Age management process. Workshops are carried out annually in each sector to review and assess the risks based on the probability of occurrence and their likely impact. Our Framework Current inherent and residual risks are determined and the risk appetite We have set our main objectives and defined our aims which would Meetings set is taken into consideration based on options available to manage guide us through our journey of implementing a fully integrated or mitigate the risks. Options available are discussed, evaluated and Held approach in risk management within the Group. consequently, Business Risk Registers (BRRs) are updated. Directors The integrated risk management process is clearly defined and a well Three year strategic plans are prepared and reviewed yearly by CEOs established structure is in place whereby assurance is obtained through and Management at sector level. Risks associated with strategies are our four lines of defence. incorporated in the plans which are presented for approval by the sectorial Boards and by the Rogers Executive Team (RET). The RET Reports Reviewed The governance of risks involves achieving an appropriate balance between realising strategic opportunities for value creation while committee includes sectorial CEOs and the Group CEO. Independent Directors during the year minimising adverse impacts. As indicated in our value creation map on Possible events that may impact significantly on earnings, liquidity, page 19 to 20, effective risk management is critical for the reputation or strategies are reported to Rogers Executive team (RET), achievement of strategic objectives. RMAC and ultimately to the Board. MAIN OBJECTIVE To provide assurance to the Board in creating an effective and integrated framework for the identification and management of the key risks and related processes AIMS TIME SPENT 64% 36% Contribute to Value Creation Strengthen the risk management culture Improve Stakeholder’s confidence and trust Align risk management with strategic planning and Allow various types of risks to be monitored together Demonstrate Management’s engagement by ensuring Financial Reporting Risk Governance critical success factors, which imply a focus on risks or under one framework and to increase awareness of high quality reporting and communication in terms of and External audit and Internal Audit uncertainties that could impede the successful risk across the Group clarity and transparency achievement of the Group’s goals RISK GOVERNANCE Risk Reporting, 1. THE BOARD Communication and Consultation Establish RISK MANAGEMENT AND AUDIT COMMITTEE the context LINES OF DEFENCE 5. 2.Risk Risk Risk Identification Treatment Management 1st LINE 2nd LINE 3rd LINE 4th LINE Process People, Management Internal External Process & & Audit Assurance Technology Oversight 4. 3. Risk Risk Evaluation Analysis Risk Monitoring and Review 59 GOVERNANCE AT ROGERS Rogers 60 Integrated Risk Management Our Integrated Managing Future Our Integrated Managing Future 1 Risk Overview 2 Risk Management Framework 3 Our Top Risks 4 Orientation 1 Risk Overview 2 Risk Management Framework 3 Our Top Risks 4 Orientation Lines of Defence Progress and Achievements Our four lines of defence form part of our integrated risk management Internal Audit Internal Audit framework (page 59) and provide comfort and assurance on risk Internal audit is an independent in-house function with the Head The number of internal audits performed is in line with the level of activities and acquisition of new businesses by the Group. During the year, the management. People, process, technology, Management and oversight of Internal Audit & Risk Management reporting to the Chairman of focus was on emerging risks and high-risk areas. The Risk & Audit department continuously aims at providing quality audits and recommendations (committees) focus on internal controls, whilst assurance provided the RMAC and administratively to the Group CEO. Our Risk & Audit toward more efficiency and productivity. This value-added exercise helps the Group as a whole to achieve its strategic business objectives. To by internal audit and external independent parties focuses on other department is made up of dynamic professionals who are affiliated to maintain the level of quality and standard of our audits, the team has been reinforced through recruitment. The team has also attended several specific areas. and are members of professional bodies (ICAEW, ACCA and IIA). The trainings including ‘Data Analytics, Ethics and Fraud’, ‘Money Laundering detection skills’ and ‘Cyber Security Seminar’. People, Process and Technology internal audit plan is prepared using a risk-based approach. Risk based audits carried out during the year were in line with the established Our Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) are as follows: Processes, systems and controls in place are designed to manage risks internal audit methodology. The plan is set for three years, reviewed and exploit opportunities. These controls are operated by employees on an annual basis by the RMAC, to incorporate the changing risk Number of audits Audit Focus for FY 2017 involved in day to day activities. landscape. Jointly controlled entities and associates are excluded from the internal audit plan. 60% Compliance & Regulatory Financial & Corporate Services Management & Oversight 4 4 Internal audit findings are reported to the RMAC and Board of the Technology Property Development & Management teams of each sector within the Group meet on a regular relevant sectors. 3 3 3 3 3 Property Investments Operational basis. They are responsible for the assessment and management of risk Technology Services Logistics Solutions including the identification, escalation of new/emerging events, the Progress on implementation of recommendations are also reported on 2 2 2 Corporate Office Financial monitoring and reporting on risk and control effectiveness. a quarterly basis to the individual sector Boards and RMAC to ensure 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 Agribusiness continuous improvement within the Group and at the same time give New/emerging risks pertaining to specific projects or new strategies assurance on the effectiveness of internal control systems. 1 Hotels Leisure are reported to the sectorial Boards every quarter. The Group’s Chief Finance Executive (CFE) reports significant new/emerging risks to the During the year there were no major limitations or restrictions in the Travel RMAC. This approach is in line with the principles of the Corporate audit scope and access to records, Management and employees. 1% Corporate FinTech Hospitality Logistics Property Governance Code and involves reporting to the Board. This allows the 30% latter to: External Assurance External assurance is obtained from the appointment of independent Office 9% • determine the nature and extent of the principal risks it is willing to take in achieving its strategic objectives; experts and their opinions provide additional assurance on: FY2016 FY2017 • oversee the management of those risks and provide challenge to • property valuation for correct fair value of investment Executive Management where appropriate; and properties; Compliance & FOUNDATIONAL ATTRIBUTES PERFORMANCE INDICATORS Regulatory Operational FY 2017 FY 2016 FY 2015 • express an informed opinion on the long-term viability of the • valuation of retirement benefit obligations; sectors. • financial statements; and COST EFFECTIVENESS Number of audits performed Technology > 22 Financial 22 18 • Group’s risk management and internal control environment. QUALITY “Unsatisfactory” or ”Major improvement needed” audit opinion > 12% 5% 20% Qualified staff 50% 43% 38% PEOPLE & TALENT > Number of staff 10 7 8 PROCESS & TECHNOLOGY Number of courses/training attended > 20 23 16 61 GOVERNANCE AT ROGERS Rogers GOVERNANCE AT ROGERS 62 Integrated Risk Management Our Integrated Managing Future Our Integrated Managing Future 1 Risk Overview 2 Risk Management Framework 3 Our Top Risks 4 Orientation 1 Risk Overview 2 Risk Management Framework 3 Our Top Risks 4 Orientation Progress and Achievements (cont’d) Progress and Achievements (cont’d) Risk Management 2. MARKET INTELLIGENCE RISK Achievements during the year in respect of top 5 residual risks identified last year were as follows: Objective: Actions taken: To maintain our • Benchmarking is a continuous exercise which is carried out throughout sectors, for example, incentives 1. SKILLS ATTRACTION, competitive advantage and promotions were offered during the year. PERFORMANCE AND RETENTION RISK • SWOT analysis performed and incorporated in the strategic plan. Objective: Actions taken: To keep a low key • Recruitment needs constantly being reviewed. staff turnover ratio • Leaders Awards Programme has been launched whereby senior leaders and team who exceeded 3. INNOVATION RISK performance will be rewarded. Objective: Actions taken: • Hospitality Sector organised job fairs. To improve on what we FinTech • In-house trainings provided on a regular basis. do well while introducing • Rogers Capital Fund Services Ltd has been awarded the ISAE (Type I) certification and a new • Conducted engagement survey to measure the pulse of our employees and obtain valuable feedback about new ways of doing things representative office opened in Johannesburg. their satisfaction with various components of their work and working environment. Hospitality Key Staff Turnover Ratio • Opening of new BlueSky lounge at Bagatelle Mall of Mauritius. • Acquisition of Hotel Tamarin. 13% HOSPITALITY FINTECH • Renovation of Veranda Paul et Virginie. • Renovation of Heritage Le Telfair Golf & Spa Resort and Le Chateau de Bel Ombre started. Corporate Office Property % Hotels % Financial 9% • Property Development: Renovation of Le Chamarel Restaurant, offering new Mauritian cuisine in a Services modern and comfortable set up. LOGISTICS • Property Investments: Renovation completed for Phoenix Mall by Ascencia and construction of new commercial centre So’Flo by Ascencia. 12% Logistics • Transport of exceptionally sized and heavy goods and strategic partnership agreement with worldwide PROPERTY % Travel % Technology Services brand United Parcel Services (UPS). Corporate office • Implementation of a Business Intelligence software is under study. 63 GOVERNANCE AT ROGERS Rogers 64 Integrated Risk Management Our Integrated Managing Future Our Integrated Managing Future 1 Risk Overview 2 Risk Management Framework 3 Our Top Risks 4 Orientation 1 Risk Overview 2 Risk Management Framework 3 Our Top Risks 4 Orientation Progress and Achievements (cont’d) Our inherent risks Each sector of the Group maintains its own Business Risk Register (BRR) which are reviewed and updated regularly. A review of strategic risks 4. LIQUIDITY RISK was undertaken whereby top risks were identified and reported. The Group’s significant inherent risks were reassessed during the year and are as follows: Objective: Actions taken: To effectively • Monthly, quarterly, yearly, three-year and five-year cash flow forecasts are prepared by CFOs and Finance manage our cash Managers and reviewed by CEOs, Group CFE and Group CEO. flow • Sufficient cash and marketable securities are maintained. • Gearing of the Group and current ratio are being monitored on a regular basis. STRATEGIC RISK FINANCIAL RISK OPERATIONAL RISK COMPLIANCE RISK Current Ratio • Innovation and • Financial Sustainability • Business Continuity • Legal and regulatory Development compliance • Foreign Exchange • Contracting 0.85* • Market Intelligence • Fund Raising • Health and Safety • Projects, strategic • Interest Rate • Information partnerships and Technology Group acquisitions (domestic and international) • Liquidity • Skills attraction, performance and • Stakeholder 0.2 PROPERTY HOSPITALITY FINTECH retention 1.0 engagement • Theft, fraud and CORPORATE OFFICE corruption Property Investments Hotels Financial Services 1.4 1.2 New and emerging risks LOGISTICS Property Development & Travel Technology Agribusiness Cyber threats Technological advances give rise to greater risks, one of them being cyber attacks which has been on the rise this year. At Rogers, we believe that being proactive and providing training to our people is critical to counter cyber threats. In that context, IT Managers from Corporate Office, 5. LEGAL & COMPLIANCE RISK Rogers Capital Technology Services, Hotels as well as Managers from Risk & Audit department attended a Cyber Security Awareness Seminar and Objective: Actions taken: subsequently the Group IT policy is being reviewed to incorporate additional measures to reinforce cyber security. To keep abreast of • Collaborated with the sectors on several projects to assess the legal and compliance aspect. Uncertainties impacting on economic growth new and existing laws • Worked closely with regulators for development of the new Code of Corporate Governance and staff in Uncertainties in global financial markets, including the Brexit, policy changes in the United States of America and change in Government in some and regulations compliance department were subsequently updated. Staff of other sectors attended seminars on the new countries in Europe may impact on economic growth and various sectors such as Hotels, Travel and Financial Services Sector. Potential changes in code. the Deemed Foreign Tax Credit system may lead to loss of clients and investors in the Financial Services Sector. • Compliance reporting performed on a quarterly basis for Financial Services Sector. *: Includes assets and liabilities classified as held for sale. 65 GOVERNANCE AT ROGERS Rogers GOVERNANCE AT ROGERS 66 Option 1 Integrated Risk Management Our Integrated Managing Future Our Integrated Managing Future 1 Risk Overview 2 Risk Management Framework 3 Our Top Risks 4 Orientation 1 Risk Overview 2 Risk Management Framework 3 Our Top Risks 4 Orientation Risks, opportunities and strategic response The top ten inherent risks and opportunities were assessed in STRATEGIES SERVED MARKET CAPITAL workshops by Management of each sector. Opportunities, responses TOP RISKS DESCRIPTION & RISK CONTEXT OPPORTUNITIES RESPONSE TO RISKS IMPACTED* CONCERNED IMPACTED* and capital impacted were identified. Strategic risks The Risk Heat Map provides an overview of the top 10 Inherent risks and their respective residual risks when existing mitigating controls • Inability to diversify and add new Improve on what we do well • Regular update and alignment of FinTech are applied. A services to the existing business while introducing new ways strategic plans with market trends. Property Innovation and • Limited resources of doing things. Encourage • Regular client surveys and investment Development • Being risk averse leaders of sectors to innovate in new systems / technologies as well Corporate Office Risk Heat Map • Inability to sustain competitive advantage and take risks. Provide as the implementation of a quality business solutions that exceed management system. expectations and create a unique selling proposition MEGA G D • Inefficient or ineffective alliance Pursue our strategy to grow • Proper due diligence checks to be carried The Group B • Lack of information on legal & regulatory and expand businesses locally out to review the financial, technical, risk Projects, framework and/or political situation in and regionally through strategic and legal aspects of each project and SUBSTANTIAL A B targeted countries alliances and acquisitions careful selection of strategic partners. E I strategic F • Limited network of partners • To draw up proper contractual H J partnerships and acquisitions agreements between all parties involved. • Quality of service not up to standard Ensure existence of effective • Ensure continuous upgrade in the quality The Group SIGNIFICANT B D E A C C • Lack of clarity in communication lines of communication with of services. IMPACT F J Stakeholder • Lack of common vision and standards our stakeholders and maintain • Continue to hold feedback meeting with engagement • Conflict with stakeholders a constructive relationship investors and employees. with them • Continue to promote the brand C G MODERATE name of the Group and of other sectors and continue to communicate H I with stakeholders. Financial risks MINOR • Political issues Keep abreast of new • Continuous monitoring of strategic plans Hospitality D • Lack of resources technologies and market trends via reviews of budgets versus forecasts. Property Financial • Lack of entrepreneurship to integrate them in the existing • Constantly monitor the strengths, INSIGNIFICANT Sustainability • Market volatility processes and services delivered weaknesses, opportunities and threats Corporate Office affecting the sectors. FinTech IMPOSSIBLE REMOTE IMPROBABLE OCCASIONAL PROBABLE FREQUENT • Delay in receiving money from debtors Optimise working capital and • Treasury function to be considered at The Group E • Inability to meet obligations maintain strategic liquidity. corporate level and strategic measures Liquidity to be developed to manage the Group LIKELIHOOD liquidity position. • Negotiation with bankers for most Inherent risk Residual risk favourable rates for the Group. 67 GOVERNANCE AT ROGERS Rogers 68 Integrated Risk Management Our Integrated Managing Future Our Integrated Managing Future 1 Risk Overview 2 Risk Management Framework 3 Our Top Risks 4 Orientation 1 Risk Overview 2 Risk Management Framework 3 Our Top Risks 4 Orientation Risks, opportunities and strategic response (cont’d) The top ten inherent risks and opportunities were assessed in STRATEGIES SERVED MARKET CAPITAL workshops by Management of each sector. Opportunities, responses TOP RISKS DESCRIPTION & RISK CONTEXT OPPORTUNITIES RESPONSE TO RISKS IMPACTED* CONCERNED IMPACTED* and capital impacted were identified. Operational Risks The Risk Heat Map provides an overview of the top 10 Inherent risks and their respective residual risks when existing mitigating controls • Inadequate contract management for Strengthen our brand and • Systematic vetting of contractual FinTech are applied. F clients and subcontractors enhance our competitive agreements entered with partners by Property Contracting • Disputes between parties advantage a legal advisor to ensure that adequate terms and conditions are included. Corporate Office Risk Heat Map (cont’d) • Continue to improve our services to Hospitality remain competitive. • Reviewing contracts and ensuring compliance to contractual agreements. MEGA G D • Breakdown of operations due to Expansion to local and • Develop, approve and implement a The Group G unforeseen major events international markets business continuity plan including a Business • No proper Business Continuity Plan disaster recovery site/plan over a SUBSTANTIAL A B defined period. F E I Continuity • Reassess strategic plan every year. H J • Talent shortage to support growth Continuing to enhance our • Communicate more on Rogers brand. The Group SIGNIFICANT B D E A C H • Low staff engagement recognition programme and • Employee survey. IMPACT F J Skills attraction, • Remuneration not aligned to market improving communication • Recognition & Rewards. performance and • Non retention of adequate skills towards existing and potential • Benchmarking of remuneration. retention and talents employees to retain and attract • Employee welfare and wellness. C G MODERATE • No proper succession planning best talents H I • Misappropriation of assets Identification of high risk areas • Ensure proper segregation of duties and The Group I • Fake bank transfer instructions received and enhancing the control adequate controls. Theft, fraud and by email environment • Constant review of work processes, MINOR corruption • Collusion perform regular quality control checks • Inability to implement and communicate and regular intervention by internal audit. ethics and controls • Malpractice reporting policy uploaded on the Group’s website. INSIGNIFICANT Compliance Risks • Lack of information on legal & regulatory Strengthen our brand and • Vetting of legal documents by legal The Group IMPOSSIBLE REMOTE IMPROBABLE OCCASIONAL PROBABLE FREQUENT J framework and/or political situation in enhance our competitive advisors, and constant monitoring of the Legal and targeted countries advantage litigation registers. regulatory • Internal and external compliance • Updates on changes in legislations LIKELIHOOD compliance procedures not being adhered to by and regulations. relevant parties • Regular review and update of the Rogers Inherent risk Residual risk Guidelines and Policies Manual. 69 GOVERNANCE AT ROGERS Rogers 70 Integrated Risk Management Our Integrated Managing Future 1 Risk Overview 2 Risk Management Framework 3 Our Top Risks 4 Orientation Beyond 2017 Risk Journey Outlook To enhance our ability to respond appropriately to the changing The pace of growth and changes in business model such as new business and risk landscape, we have started and aim to fully integrate technology, require the internal audit team to adapt by using more our strategy, value chain, operating model, structure, technology, and sophisticated audit tools. To get ahead of the curve, the Risk & Audit high-performance culture. This will enable us to grow shareholders’ team needs to continuously keep abreast of changes in environment, value sustainably. The implementation of a fully integrated risk legislations, risks, uncertainties, new services provided and new management framework is a permanent journey on which the Group businesses acquired. RMAC will continue to provide oversight and has embarked. guidance to the internal audit team. On the Risk Maturity level, the Group positions itself at the “Defined” Our challenges and action plans for the financial year 2018 will be: maturity stage and our aim is to continuously climb the ladder as we • Continue to strengthen the risk awareness culture across the believe that Rogers has not yet reached its optimum level. Embedding Group, and ensure a closer monitoring of emerging risks. risk management ‘in everything we do’ is a lengthy and meticulous process that requires constant monitoring and fine-tuning of the • Ensure new or changes in risks are reported to RMAC and Board framework. We are engaged as a Group to work towards our set on a timely basis. milestones: the 2020 goal and the 2023 goal. Our aim is to reach the • Use of data analytic tools for audit of companies with big volume “Managed” maturity level by 2020 and following succession, we will of data. strive to reach the “Optimised” level. • Perform IT audits such as general and application controls and review preparedness of IT Management team in case of cyber attacks. • Review of internal controls in the first year for all new RISK MATURITY LEVEL businesses acquired. • Implement the new Code of Corporate Governance. • Prepare the internal audit charter and secure its approval by the RMAC. • Develop and retain talents with the requisite skills set through continuous professional development programs and trainings. 2023 • Encourage our team to be Certified Internal Auditors. OPTIMISED 2020 MANAGED Rogers & Company Limited ed DEFINED 5th floor, Rogers House, 5 President John Kennedy Street, REPEATABLE PO Box 60, Port-Louis, Mauritius Tel. (230) 202 6666 INITIAL Fax.. (230) 208 3646 www.rogers.mu 71 GOVERNANCE AT ROGERS Rogers
