Sustainability report 2016 1 Content guide 1. STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS 04 1.1. Executive Chairman’s Statement 04 1.2. Key achievements in 2016 06 2. ORGANISATIONAL PROFILE 10 2.1. Brand values 11 2.2. Air transport activity 13 2.3. Airport services activity 18 2.4. Aircraft maintenance activity 20 2.5. Iberia Express 23 2.6. IAG 24 2.7. Sustainability strategy 26 2.8. Commitment to quality 30 2.9. Awards 31 2.10. Memberships of associations 34 3. STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT 36 4. MATERIAL ASPECTS AND BOUNDARIES 40 5. REPORT PROFILE 46 6. GOVERNANCE 50 6.1. IAG–Iberia governance structure 52 6.2. Risk management 56 6.3. Internal and external audit 56 6.4. Ethics and integrity 56 6.5. Grievance mechanisms 57 7. ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE 58 Materiality of the management approach 59 7.1. Economic figures 60 7.2. Innovation management 62 8. ENVIRONMENTAL 64 Materiality of the management approach 65 8.1. Consumption summary 66 8.2. Protecting animal species 68 8.3. Combating climate change 69 8.4. Local air quality and noise 71 8.5. Effluents and waste 72 8.6. Environmental management 73 8.7. Environmental projects 74 9. SOCIAL PERFORMANCE 76 Materiality of the management approach 77 9.1. Employment 78 9.2. Labour relations 80 9.3. Occupational health and safety 83 9.4. Training and education 85 9.5. Diversity and equal opportunity 92 9.6. Labour practices of the suppliers 95 10. HUMAN RIGHTS 96 Materiality of the management approach 97 10.1. United Nations Global Compact 98 10.2. Human rights training 100 10.3. Responsible procurement 100 11. SOCIETY 102 Materiality of the management approach 103 11.1. Key social development actions 105 11.2. Sustainable Development Goals 110 11.3. Anti-corruption policy 114 11.4. Public policies 115 11.5. Competition rules 116 11.6. Passenger rights 116 11.7. Price transparency 116 12. PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY 118 Materiality of the management approach 119 12.1. Commitment to continuous improvement 120 12.2. Operating safety 124 12.3. Quality of service 125 12.4. Managing complaints 127 12.5. Quality of service 127 12.6. Customer privacy 128 12.7. Communication channels 129 12.8. Advertising ethics 129 APPENDIX GRI G4 CONTENT INDEX 130 13.1. General standard disclosures 132 13.2. Specific standard disclosures 138 1 Strategy and Analysis 1.1 Executive chairman’s statement 2016 was another year of progress for Iberia on its path to become a modern, competitive airline which is sustainable over time. The Future Plan, the first phase of which concludes this year, set our course to make Iberia a stronger and more flexible company, which is able to adapt itself to the ups and downs of an increasingly complex market. And we are managing it. In 2016, for example, Iberia and Iberia Express became the world’s most punctual airlines in their respective categories. This is a milestone in our history that we value extraordinarily for two reasons: due to the positive impact it has on customers’ ratings and because, as it is an indicator linked to employee attitude, it reveals the degree to which the workforce is committed to our transformation project. The financial results and those from its activity also continued improving in 2016 as a result of the efficiency programmes implemented under the Future Plan. Our operating profit increased to 271 million euros, 22% more than the previous year, and the indicators of supply, demand and cargo carried also showed growth. In addition, the occupancy rate rose 0.9 points to 82%. Increasing routes and frequencies (with establishing the first connections with Asia) contributed to consolidating the image of Iberia as a global airline which offers its customers a comprehensive service. Last year we commemorated the 70th anniversary of our first flight to Latin America, which continues to be our main market. 04 Another of our priority commitments, due to the future investment required, is the renovation of the fleet to gain efficiency and quality. In 2016, we received nine new A330-200 aircraft, which consume less fuel, incorporate technological innovations and offer more amenities to passengers. The Airports and Maintenance business areas also continue to advance in their transformation process to increase competitiveness and sustainability. Airports, the handling business of the company, showed notable growth both as regards aircraft and passengers attended and concerning pieces of luggage transported. In the area of Maintenance, we are taking the necessary steps to be increasingly competitive and we have introduced new management systems to ensure the quality and the safety processes and respect for the environment. In this context of change and transformation, Iberia continues to maintain its social commitment. We actively collaborate on social projects with organisations like Envera, Mano a Mano, Make a Wish, Sepla Ayuda, Save the Children and Fundación Integra and these initiatives fall within this framework of our commitment to achieving the 17 Sustainable Development Goals approved by the United Nations Global Compact. We have channeled a part of our contributions to send humanitarian aid to the victims of the earthquake on the coast of Ecuador. The progress made is evident. However, we should not be complacent. We have done many things to reform the company, but we are still far from what we want to be. Once we have consolidated operating profit, we have to improve our return on investment and operating margin indicators until we make them as profitable as the rest of the companies of the IAG Group. To this end, we have to persevere in our cost control efforts. Additionally, we have to contribute to the successful launch of LEVEL, the IAG Group’s new brand for low-cost, long-haul fights, whose first flights will be operated and marketed by Iberia. We also have to develop, in partnership with Vueling, our plans to tackle the stiff competition from the AVE high-speed train service and offer the best air shuttle product for travellers between Madrid and Barcelona. All these goals will not be possible without the flexibility, talent and extraordinary effort of Iberia’s team of professionals, whom I must thank for one more year of commitment and dedication to moving the company forward Luis Gallego GRI 1.1 Content Index [G4-1 / G4-2] 05 1 Strategy and Analysis 1.2 Key achievements of 2016 Iberia is on the right track to becoming a competitive company and achieving an acknowledged and sustainable position among the main international airlines. In 2016, its progress as regards punctuality, increasing routes, incorpo“Iberia and Iberia Express, ration of new aircraft, profit from its operations, occupancy are the most punctual rate, customer service and supporting responsible tourism airlines in the world in their laid the foundations for developing the 2014-2017 Future respective categories” Plan, completing its modernisation process and ensuring its sustainability in the medium and long term. We describe Flightstats the year’s main achievements below The most punctual in the world Iberia and Iberia Express were the most punctual airlines in the world in their respective categories, according to Flightstats, the leading consultancy firm in flight information, services and applications for the travel industry. New routes to Asia, Africa and America 2016 was a key year for the expansion of Iberia, as four new long-haul routes were opened, to Asia, Africa and America. In June, the first flight was scheduled to Shanghai (China) and later the route to Tokyo was inaugurated. Iberia is the only airline that has direct flights to Japan. We also reopened the flights to San Juan (Puerto Rico) and Johannesburg (South Africa). 06 GRI 1.2 Content Index [G4-13 / G4-2] Furthermore, direct flights operated by our subsidiary Our results continue to improve Iberia Express were inaugurated between Madrid and Operating profit attributed to the Iberia segment in the Birmingham (UK), Rennes (France), Cork (Ireland), Oslo consolidated financial statements of the IAG Group was (Norway), Krakow (Poland), Reykjavík (Iceland), Bucha271 million euros, compared to 222 million euros in 2015, rest (Romania), Santorini (Greece) and Malta. In addition, representing an increase of 22%. 56 additional frequencies were established on 23 already consolidated routes. The Iberia Group’s activity in 2016 also showed an upward trend, from the perspective of both the supply (4% more A more modern fleet seats per kilometre) and the demand (5.7% more passengers per kilometre). Occupancy rose to 82.0%, an increase In 2016, Iberia incorporated nine new Airbus A330-200 of 0.9 points over last year’s figure. craft, which are part of an order for 12 units for the period 2015-2018. The A330-200 is the airline’s most modern, New Tourist Premium cabin efficient and environmentally friendly aircraft. In 2016, Iberia presented its new Tourist Premium class, The new aircraft consume less fuel, have a range of up to a cabin which improves on-board comfort and which will 11,500 kilometres, a take-off capacity of up to 242 tonnes be available on the first flights to the American continent and include improvements in both business and tourist throughout the 2017 summer season. cabins, in addition to a Wi-Fi service with the best techThe new cabin has exclusive, wider and reclining seats, with nology available at the time for transoceanic flights. more separation between seats. 07 1 Strategy and Analysis In addition, the customers who travel in Tourist Premium In connection with the anniversary, the new image and will have an improved range of individual entertainment. product of Iberia was also presented at the diplomatic headCustomers will also enjoy an enhanced gastronomical quarters of Spain in Chile, Ecuador, El Salvador, Guatemala, offering. Argentina and Uruguay. Iberia also organised a tour in tribute to Paco de Lucía around Latin America with his last guitar (La 70 years since the first Latin American flight Maestra) and joined the Campus Iberoamérica programme, offering favourable terms on its flights to students, teachers On 22 September 1946, a four-engine Douglas DC-4 and researchers on the region. Iberia aircraft took off from Madrid heading to Buenos Aires, where it arrived after a 36-hour journey and three Supporting sustainable tourism layovers. Iberia are part of the task force on responsible tourism, together To commemorate the 70th anniversary of its first flight to with a further 11 companies from the tourism sector; it is a Latin America, Iberia flew in September 2016 from Madrid commitment shared by all, a project from the Spanish Global Compact Network intended to share successful experiences in to Buenos Aires in a plane decorated with the flags of the social and environmental sustainability and whose ultimate goal 16 Latin American countries with which it has a direct is to work to achieve a sustainable, competitive tourism sector. connection 08 Tourism is a key sector for achieving the 17 Sustainable Iberia was also the official carrier of the Olympics Team for the Development Goals of the United Nations. 2016 Rio Olympics and of the Spanish Olympic Committee, joining in the promotion of Spanish Olympic sport. NDC certification from IATA Award for transformation The International Air Transport Association (IATA) awarded Iberia NDC (New Distribution Capability) certification; Iberia received in 2016 the prize for the best transformation this is a new data transmission standard which facilitates of an airline awarded each year by CAPA, the leading aviation communication between airlines, travel agencies and other information, analysis and data supplier. industry players. The award is in recognition of the progress of the airlines in The NDC standard enables searches for flights, ticket sales and terms of productivity, cost reduction, operating profit and the sale of seats and pieces of luggage not included in the price. increase in capacity, in such a complex setting as the EuroThe system offers greater flexibility and speed in differentipean market. ating the product and provides a better shopping experience. Positive balance in Airports Sponsorship of the paralympic team in Rio The handling business in airports progressed very positively: Iberia was the sponsor of the Spanish Paralympic Team at the 2016 Río de Janeiro Games, joining the plan of the More than 340,500 aircraft attended, 4.6% more Association of Olympic and Paralympic Sport (Asociación than in 2015. de Deportes Olímpicos Paralímpicos, ADOP). More than 88 million passengers attended at all With this contribution, the athletes had the necessary layovers of the national network, that is, 8.8% more. resources for their training. Approximately 57 million pieces of luggage transported, which represents an increase of 6.7%. New management in Maintenance In 2016, the Maintenance area incorporated new management systems whose main purpose is ongoing analysis of the processes to introduce a more efficient and competitive methodology. The aim is to for management to focus more on ensuring quality and safety and environmentally friendly processes. Reflecting this change, the Iberia Maintenance facilities renewed their image and the work environment, which were adapted to the company culture 09 2 Organisational profile 1946 On 22 September, Iberia undertook its first transatlantic flight with a DC-4 aircraft 10 2.1 Brand values Over the last years Iberia has undergone a major change driven by its desire to be a unique company and to offer its customers a special experience. During the renovation process we have held on to the fundamental values that have always made us stand out and be a benchmark for our customers. During the renovation process we have held on to the fundamental values that have always made us stand out and be a benchmark for our customers. Thanks to these values, what we do and how we do it takes on a special significance. GRI 2.1 Content Index [G4-12] 11 2 Organisational profile Rapport Drive In the sense of: In the sense of: The natural connection with the Hispanic world that we The charismatic vitality and dynamism that lead us to invent claim as our own and our distinguishing feature based on our and reinvent ourselves, adapting to change in order to contincountry of origin, history and legacy we share with millions uously improve. The passion behind our ambition for success of people. Our linguistic and cultural similarity with them and self-improvement, constantly seeking excellence in and the empathy between us, always working as a team and management to go one step further. The ability to channel naturally recognising people’s value. The close and emotional resources and focus efforts efficiently and effectively to bond in how we express ourselves; the way we experience achieve goals, create value and consolidate our leadership as and feel things, important in both a Latin America and Euroa company and leading brand in our sector. pean context. Talent In terms of: The ingenuity that allows us to apply creativity and imagination to the search for innovative and significant solutions. The professionalism that is recognised and valued in all market research, which we encourage through our training, education and continuous development of top human resources. Resolute spirit, practical, proven and experienced, with which we demonstrate considerable expertise simply and naturally, responsibly and committed to society. 12 2.2 Air transport activity Iberia is the benchmark airline in Spain and leader in routes between Europe and Latin America. In addition, direct flights operated by Iberia Express were inaugurated between Madrid and Birmingham (UK), Rennes In 2016 it was world leader in punctuality and it opened (France), Cork (Ireland), Oslo (Norway), Krakow (Poland), new routes to San Juan (Puerto Rico), Johannesburg (South Reykjavík (Iceland), Bucharest (Romania), Santorini (Greece) Africa), Shanghai (China) and Tokyo (Japan). and Malta. Figures Additionally, 56 frequencies were added on 23 different, already consolidated routes. These include La Habana on 131 destinations in 52 countries. transoceanic flights, and London (Gatwick), Oporto, Naples, 262 destinations in 64 countries with shared code Geneva, Lisbon, Asturias, the Canary Islands, the Balearic with other companies. Islands and Galicia, on shortand medium-haul flights. This expansion process coincides with the expansion of 142 aircraft, 77 Iberia, 21 Iberia Express and 44 Iberia’s fleet with an order for 12 A330-200 long-haul Iberia Regional / Air Nostrum. aircraft; the first of which were delivered in 2015, and which will all be delivered between 2016 and 2018. More than 600 flights a day – IB+I2+YW. In addition, 16 A350-900 options have been ordered, which More than 8,500 flights a day with the other. will be converted into firm orders during the period 2018oneworld partners. 2021 and will allow the company to replace and expand its. GRI 2.2 Content Index [G4-9 / G4-12] 13 2 Organisational profile The renewal of the fleet and restructuring of the airline are The A330-200 is the airline’s most modern, efficient and proof of the investment that Iberia is making in the future. environmentally friendly aircraft. The new aircraft consumes less fuel, has a range of up to 11,500 kilometres and boasts a A more efficient fleet take-off capacity of up to 242 tonnes. In 2016, Iberia incorporated nine new Airbus A330-200 In addition, the new craft introduce improvements in both craft, which are part of an order for 12 units for the period the business and tourist cabins, such as the new screens with 2015-2018. The new craft were dubbed with the names a more advanced processor that make it easier for users to of Latin American cities (La Habana, Buenos Aires, Montebrowse the contents of the on-board entertainment system. video, Lima, Santiago de Chile, Bogota, among others), The entire plane offers passengers a Wi-Fi service with the as part of the celebration of the 70th anniversary of the best technology available at the current time for transoceairline’s first ever flight to the region. The last of the planes anic flights, which allows faster download speeds. received in 2016 was given the name of Tokyo, in tribute to the route between Madrid and the capital of Japan, also New Tourist Premium cabin opened in 2016. In 2016, Iberia presented its new Tourist Premium class, a cabin which improves on-board comfort and which will be available on the first flights to the American continent The A330-200 is the airline’s throughout the 2017 summer season. most modern, efficient The Tourist Premium cabin is a new cabin located between and environmentally the tourist and business cabins and is designed for passenfriendly aircraft gers who value comfort and look for a higher level of service both on the ground and in the air. 14 The new tourist premium cabin has exclusive, wider seats New Distribution Capability (NDC) is a programme launched which are more separated from each other than in the tourist by IATA to develop and adopt a new data transmission cabin, as well as larger, better quality individual entertainstandard based on XML language and open to third parties, ment screens. Tourist premium class customers will also which reinforces the communication between airlines, enjoy priority boarding and disembarking, an additional piece travel agencies, aggregators and other players. of luggage and enhanced gastronomical offering, among Initially, the NDC standard enables searches for flights, other benefits. ticket sales and the sale of seats and pieces of luggage not Iberia will roll out the new cabin in 37 long-haul flights. Eight included in the price. of these will be A330-300 craft and 13 will be A340-600 Iberia is, together with Iberia Express, British Airways and Aer planes, all of which are currently in its fleet and will be updated Lingus, also from the IAG Group, one of the 28 airlines which between 2017 and 2018. The remaining 16 will be new-genhave received NDC certification around the world. eration A350-900 that the company is to receive from 2018. Distribution certification from IATA The International Air Transport Association (IATA) awarded Iberia NDC (New Distribution Capability) certification, which means that it has developed a direct link interface with other sector players in accordance with the standards of that organisation. Consequently, the company can distribute its products through this new channel. 15 2 Organisational profile Debut in China Furthermore, Iberia has a special offering for customers on these flights, such as Chinese menus and a virtual library On 28 June 2016, Iberia began direct flights to Shanghai including a range related to China and Shanghai (China) three times a week, thus accessing the Asian market for the first time and demonstrating its vocation as a global Link with Tokyo airline. After the inauguration of the Shanghai route, in October For the inauguration and before the first flight had taken 2016 Iberia launched its direct link between Tokyo’s Narita off, an institutional event was held at Madrid airport, with Airport and Madrid. Iberia is the only airline with non-stop the participation of the Spanish and Chinese ambassadors, flights between Spain and Japan. Three direct flights have representatives from the Madrid autonomous region and city been scheduled per week: Tuesday, Friday and Sunday from council, El Corte Inglés, Madrid airport and Iberia. Spain, and Monday, Wednesday and Saturday from Tokyo. Through the commencement of its flights to Tokyo, Iberia has Iberia has hired Chinese cabin joined British Airways, Finnair and JAL in the joint business crew and airport personnel, agreement for routes between Europe and Japan. Furtherwith the aim of assisting its more, these flights offer a shared code with JAL. Thanks to this agreement, 76 flights per week are offered between Oriental customers in their Madrid, London, Frankfurt, Helsinki and Paris to Tokyo’s Narita language and respecting and Haneda Airports, as well as to the Japanese cities of their customs Osaka, Nagoya and Fukuoka. In addition, Japan Airlines offers connecting flights to a further 59 cities in the Asian country. 16 Return to Johannesburg and San Juan Iberia’s flight was fully booked on 1 August 2016 on the flight that represented the resumption of its operations between Madrid and Johannesburg and at full capacity carried its first 278 customers for this new cycle in South Africa. Iberia offers three flights a week on a route that flies with the A330-300, one of its most modern aircraft. In May, Iberia also resumed the direct link between Madrid and San Juan in Puerto Rico. The airline offers three flights a week using A330-200 aircraft, the most modern model in its fleet. In total, it offered more than 41,200 seats on this route during the summer season. With the resumption of the flights to San Juan, the airline has reinforced its leadership in Latin America 17 2 Organisational profile 2.3 Airport services activity With almost 90 years of experience in airport services, Iberia Airport Services is the benchmark company in the handling business in Spain, in terms of both the number of national airports in which it works (29) and the quality and professionalism with which it provides the service to almost 170 airlines. Iberia tackles its daily work based on the following coordinates: Excellence: We seek excellence (more than quality) to Commitment to the environment: The company guarantee the best customer experience. promotes use of renewable energy, emissions reduction and in short, a more responsible and respectful attitude Flexibility: The motto is “every customer is different, towards the environment. every operation is unique.” Based on this made-tomeasure philosophy we also ensure efficiency of the With a ground fleet of approximately 8,200 vehicles, Iberia processes adapted to the needs of each customer. is equipped to guarantee everything from the most simple services to the most complete and sophisticated operaSafety: Of operations and of everyone who works tions. There are three types of service: in the airport environment. It is a transversal business principle that has made the company worthy of Passenger: Attending airlines’ customers in the Isago certification, awarded by IATA as the highest airport at check-in, boarding, incidents, ticket sales and recognition in the industry in terms of safety in ground other special services. To do this, it has a staff focused on operations. excellence and commitment to service. 18 GRI 2.3 Content Index [G4-9 / G4-12] New image On 12 December, the new workwear for the Airports and Maintenance auxiliary staff was unveiled in Madrid. The uniform, with a more sporting style, was designed in accordance with Iberia’s values. The project was tackled in a cross-cutting manner through a task force made up of people from both business areas. In addition to the new Ramp: Provide assistance to the aircraft in ground clothing, a new management support equipment, passenger and crew transport, model was introduced for steps, de-icing, communication with the cabin, start-up, delivering the uniforms, which exterior inspection and cleaning. It has the best are home-delivered technology, guaranteeing the utmost punctuality and safety in the service. Cascading communication Operations and cargo: Managing flight dispatch and cargo transport operations. Iberia has the best In June 2016, the business area’s management team began a automatic classification systems and a specialised system to communicate the results of the company to all the team. It is a benchmark service nationally and employees in the Airports business area. The model focuses internationally. on the results of the handling area, so as to highlight the figures, objectives and challenges of the activity. Figures The year was marked by an increase in activity: 340,560 aircraft assisted, 4.6% up on 2015. 170 client companies. 8,200 ground vehicles More than 88.1 million passengers attended in all the stations in the national network, 8.8% up on 2015. Approximately 57 million pieces of luggage transported, 6.7% up on 2015. 92,373 children travelling alone attended by the Airport Services Department, which is 1.4% up on 2015. 19 2 Organisational profile The results of the 2016 Satisfaction Survey were also shared and a plan of action was raised based on a number of 2.4 Aircraft maintenance initiatives that reflected to a large extent the suggestions activity and proposals gathered through the survey. Globally, Iberia Maintenance is a benchmark supplier in The more direct and two-way communication system is one the maintenance checks and repair of aircraft, engines and of the priorities of the management of the Airports area. components, with programmes tailored to its clients’ needs and latest-generation technology systems. Plan for good use of ground equipment Thanks to its broad experience and specialising in fleets The Plan to Raise Awareness and Conserve Ground Equipof Airbus A320s, A330 and A340 aircraft, as well as its ment was launched in 2016 to foster responsible use of list of skills in repairing engines and components and its that equipment and improve the efficiency and safety of wide inventory of engine and aircraft parts, Iberia Maintethe operation. nance can provide services to the carriers of the IAG Group (Iberia, Iberia Express, Vueling, British Airways, Open Skies In this framework, a list of ten good practice rules was and Aer Lingus) and to a hundred companies worldwide. drawn up, a document which positively expresses recommendations on handling ground equipment. It was drawn up in participation with the users. Inventory management includes an extensive number of references to ensure the supply of materials and parts, with a high degree of reliability and a limited cost per flight hour The processes make use of cutting-edge technology that ensures the reliability of these, increases operations involving its own group and cuts repair times. The introduction of continuous improvement programmes to cut maintenance costs and obtain the greatest efficiency in repairs and checks also ensures the highest standards of quality. With almost a century of experience in Maintenance, Repair and Operations (MRO) services, Iberia Maintenance is ranked second in the aeronautics industry in Spain as regards revenues and workforce, and is the leader in aeronautical maintenance services. In a highly regulated industry, Iberia Maintenance is certified by the most important international air authorities: the European Aviation Safety Agency (EASA), the Federal 20 GRI 2.4 Content Index [G4-9 / G4-12] Aviation Administration (FAA) of America and NATO, as well as by different manufacturers, civil authorities, aviation firms and official agencies Figures Engines: 140 inductions Auxiliary power units: 3 Checks: Total Complete Overhauls: 353 Components: Repair of 44,000 aircraft components Line Maintenance Checks: 754 A-checks Human Resources: 2,649 people Iberia Maintenance Bases: 22 in Spain, including those in Madrid and Barcelona, where major maintenance can also be provided: 16 in America; 2 in Africa, and 7 in Europe (excluding Spain) A project for change 2016 was a year of change in the Maintenance area, which set in motion a plan to tackle the future challenges of the business with management more focused on ensuring quality and safety and environmentally friendly processes. The incorporation of new management systems made it possible to introduce continuous improvement Reflecting this change, the Iberia Maintenance facilities processes, including the incorporated a series of improvements to infrastructures implementation of Lean and renewed the image and work environment to adapt methodology, which them to the company culture. Additionally, the uniforms accelerates the launch of the were changed for a more updated version which was better adapted to the tasks performed. services and increases their efficiency The new plans and goals were explained to the employees at meetings held in Madrid and Barcelona. 21 2 Organisational profile New Fly Safe Fly On Time Fly at Low Cost Feel Innovation & Continuous Improvement Safety and punctuality, priorities Managing safety (FlySafe) is an absolute priority for Iberia Maintenance and to guarantee it initiatives have been rolled out such as safety walks, marking production areas, the FOD programme and smart tool boxes. Punctuality (Fly On Time) is another of the priorities of the area, given its importance to avoid negative repercussions on other programmed processes and on flight operations. Iberia was acknowledged in 2016 as the most punctual airline in the world thanks to the effort made by all the departments at the company. Cost reductions (Fly @ Low Cost) are achieved through innovation, constant improvement of processes (Feel Innovation & Continuous Improvement) and streamlining resources. The basic pillars of a comprehensive, exhaustive, sustainable and reliable MRO plan are thus structured to achieve the best standards of productivity and efficiency. Introduction of the FOD initiative LThe introduction of the FOD (Foreign Object Debris/ Damage) initiative aims to reduce to nothing the debris and waste in the work zone in order to protect it from any sensitive elements and prevent dirt entering the equipment installed in the aircraft. The initiative received an award from the manufacturer Airbus Defence and Space in recognition of the most efficient implementation of the FOD prevention programme. The prize money was donated to the Asociación Envera to finance the treatment of a little girl in the Disability Early Care Unit. 22 Consolidation of the customer base 2.5. Iberia Express EasyJet and Aer Lingus, among other airlines, signed for the first time agreements with Iberia Maintenance to check their fleets. Customers such as Rolls Royce, DHL, British Airways, Thomas Cook, IAE, SAS, etc. continue to be part of the company’s customer base. Iberia Express is an airline based in Madrid operating short and Renovation of aircraft interiors medium-haul flights since it started operating in March 2012. In 2016, the work to carry out the modifications to the The airline -100% owned by Iberiawas set up to allow the A340-600 to incorporate the new long-haul product was Iberia Group to offer its customers more affordable rates whilst completed. This involved more modern seats, which in Busimaintaining the quality of service and sustaining the parent ness transform into beds that are two metres long, the new company’s long-haul service. individualised on-board entertainment system with tactile screen, optical fibre to improve speed, Wi-Fi and latest generation antennas. Thanks to this good service, Iberia Express has consolidated its position as the most punctual low-cost airline in the world for the third consecutive year, with average punctuality score of 89.64%, providing service to more than 18 million passengers The passenger thereby enjoys the same benefits that flying with Iberia represents: flying to major airports, Iberia Plus programme, VIP rooms, in-flight service and entertainment, business class, various flight frequencies, connections to more Visits to the facilities than 200 destinations, and the safety provided by the company’s maintenance, recognised as one of the best in the world. In 2016, 85 visits were organised to the La Muñoza facilities. Nearly 1,000 people were able to see first-hand the At the current time, the company flies to 40 destinations (14 aircraft maintenance activities that are carried out in the national and 26 international destinations). Most of them different areas, both for the Iberia fleet and for other airline operate from or to Madrid. In addition, the airline operates the companies. interregional routes that connect Vigo-Tenerife, Tenerife-Lyon, Gran Canaria-London, Asturias-Gran Canaria, Asturias-London, New image Asturias-Tenerife and Palma de Mallorca-Stuttgart. As well as in airports, on 12 December, the new workwear The airline competes efficiently and sustainably in an increasfor the Maintenance auxiliary staff premiered in Madrid. The ingly difficult market. Iberia Express provides the holding project was tackled in a cross-cutting manner through a task company with direct traffic and connections in a profitable force made up of people from both business areas. way, thereby supporting Iberia in its long-haul growth. GRI 2.5 Content Index [G4-9 / G4-12] 23 2 Organisational profile 2.6 IAG International Airlines Group is one of the largest airline groups in the world, with 525 aircraft flying to 255 destinations and carrying around 95 million passengers a year. It is the third largest group in Europe and sixth in the world in terms of revenue. Created in 2011, IAG is the holding company of Aer Lingus, British Airways, Iberia and Vueling. The company is registered in Spain and its shares are traded on the London and Spanish stock exchanges. IAG combines the leading airlines in Ireland, the United Kingdom and Spain, which allows them to expand their presence in the aviation industry while keeping their own brands and operations. The airlines’ customers benefit from a larger combined network for passengers and cargo and from an increased capacity to invest in new products and services thanks to their greater financial stability. The airline sector is gradually moving towards consolidation, although certain regulatory constraints still prevail. The corporate mission of IAG is to play an important role in the future consolidation of the industry, both regionally and worldwide. At the same time, Iberia, due to its market value, offers IAG the following benefits: Iberia’s decision to join a large international group like IAG is Firm leadership in the South Atlantic based on the following benefits: High growth potential Financial strength Strong cash contributor Fleet renewal opportunities Exchange of best practices to optimise costs Greater strategic importance IAG seeks benefits for its customers and offers a Cost and revenue synergies combined network with more destinations and services 24 GRI 2.6 Content Index [G4-12] The company flies to 130 British Airways destinations with a fleet of British Airways is the United Kingdom’s flagship carrier, 108 aircraft offering integral services, with a vast global network of routes, flying to and from major international destinations. Vueling offers a wide network of flights all around Europe, Other factors that make it stand out internationally are the Middle East and Africa. It flies to 130 destinations with a the size of its fleet, the number of flights and the premium fleet of 108 aircraft, made up of Airbus A319, A320 and A321 transport service it offers its customers around the world. aircraft,and has 20 operations bases. British Airways flies to over 170 destinations in 70 counIn 2017, the company plans to launch Vueling Next, a future tries. It has a fleet of more than 280 aircraft and carries development plan based on two lines of action: operational more than 40 million passengers a year. The airline has a excellence and passenger service. Its objectives are to gain strong presence at London airports: Heathrow (where it is a strong foothold as one of the leading low-cost airlines in based in Terminal 5), Gatwick and London City. Europe, consolidate its leadership in Barcelona-El Prat airport and capture over the next few years a part of the growth in the European market. British Airways flies to over 170 destinations in 70 countries In 2016, British Airways incorporated 13 new, more silent and fuel-efficient aircraft into its fleet, contribAer Lingus uting to the carbon and noise targets of the IAG Group. The airline continues to develop options for sustainable Aer Lingus was founded in 1936 with the mission of airline fuels derived from waste materials and contribconnecting Ireland with the world. Its goal is to offer the uted to a UK government consultation process to support best product with excellent customer service and low rates. future fuels. It currently has a fleet of 50 aircraft operating more than 100 routes from major airports in the United Kingdom, continental Europe and North America. It provides service to approximately 11 million passengers a year, whilst providing efficient global connectivity along with its associate airlines. Aer Lingus became the fourth IAG company in August Vueling 2015. By joining IAG, it has facilitated its growth, enabling it to offer customers new routes and services, whilst mainVueling was set up in July 2004 with the goal of offering taining its emblematic brand in Ireland, where it continues excellent customer service at competitive prices. To do this, to have its base and management team. it had a fleet of two A320 aircraft and four routes. Over its 13 years of life, Vueling has experienced significant Its goal is to offer the best growth. One of its achievements was to join IAG in April 2013 and become leader in Barcelona–El Prat and Rome– product with excellent Fiumicino airports. customer service and low rates. 25 2 Organisational profile 2.7 Sustainability strategy IAG Cargo Iberia’s sustainability strategy is based on a series of principles that allow the company to continue growing, in line with IAG Cargo is the group’s cargo company, and is acknowlthe services demands of its customers, within a framework edged as one of the leading international cargo companies of respect and care for the environment. Another key part of in the world. its policy is to actively collaborate in the social environment and to promote progress of the societies in which it operIt was set up in April 2011 with the merger between Iberia ates. This commitment extends to the rest of the company’s Cargo and British Airways World Cargo, providing customers stakeholders: customers, team, shareholders and suppliers. with access to a single sales force. It was designed around the current and future needs of companies throughout the The Sustainability Department at IAG is responsible for world. defining the group’s strategy on sustainability and set the guidelines and objectives for the companies of the group. The strategy is in line with the 17 Sustainable Development Goals defined by the United Nations. Iberia keeps all It is acknowledged as one its areas informed about their role in developing Corporate of the leading international Responsibility in their daily work cargo companiesin the world IAG Cargo customers currently benefit from one of the most extensive and diverse global networks with over 350 destinations, including the 120 largest airports in the world for air cargo. Similarly, IAG Cargo invests to offer its customers a unique portfolio of high quality products that covers its extensive network of destinations. Avios Avios is IAG’s shared global rewards currency and is used in its loyalty programmes: Avios Travel Rewards in the United Kingdom and South Africa, British Airways Executive Club and Iberia Plus. Avios innovates with the incorporation of new formulas to benefit customers and also provides added-value to the airlines. One of its priorities is to implement initiatives that create accumulation opportunities for e-commerce customers. 26 GRI 2.7 Content Index [G4-12] Department Area Responsibility Direct contact with customers. Service quality management. Sales Customer service design. Marketing Advertising and brand management. Operational quality Operational safety and quality for customers. Production In-flight service and operations Direct contact with customers in-flight. Ground operations Direct contact with Customers at international airports Direct contact with Customers at airports Airport services National airports (passenger and assisted companies). Direct contact with customers in aircraft and engine Technical Aircraft maintenance maintenance work (Iberia and assisted companies). Strategic planning Management and development of corporate strategy. Management control and Internal control systems of financial information. Strategic planning and administration Shareholder information. finances Procurement and fleet Direct contact with suppliers. Innovation Research and development project management. Internal and external External (customers, stakeholders) and internal communication (employees) communication systems. Coordination of the Corporate Social Responsibility Communication and policy. Institutional Relations and CSR CSR Social action project management (society). Design and implementation of environmental policies. Network and Alliances Relationship with regulatory bodies, associations and Alliances and aero-political affairs development development of strategic alliances. Relationship with regulatory bodies. Legal Good governance coordination. Legal Department Implementation of the anti-corruption and regulatory Compliance, corporate risks compliance policy. Ground experience and flight Direct contact with customers. Service quality Customer experience management. People Human resources Direct contact with employees. Corporate Coordination of emergencies Crisis contingency plans. 27 2 Organisational profile Iberia’s sustainability strategy is defined in the following • Promote sustainable development and good goals: management practices among our suppliers and service providers. Maintain a leading position in profitability, safety and reliability. • Work together with institutions, public administrations and other companies in the sector Earn recognition within society for our transparency, on any initiatives considered of interest. social commitment and protection of human rights. • Participate in cultural, educational, sports social and economic development projects wherever we Apply the best environmental practices in our operate business activities, making rational use of natural resources. Ensure that these goals are met, with permanent monitoring to identify opportunities to further the company’s Respond to the major concerns of the company’s continuous improvement in managing sustainability. stakeholders. To do this: Initiatives • Guarantee the best customer service in terms of quality and responsibility, respecting protection of The company’s commitment to this issue leads it to their rights. support the best ethical practices and to participate in the • Create value for our shareholders, fostering respect following national and international initiatives, which are for the environment and distribution of wealth. used as a permanent reference in their practical application throughout IAG: • Support social action initiatives promoted by our employees, engaging other stakeholders. United Nations Global Compact Iberia undertakes to meet the 10 principles related to human rights, labour, • Foster personal, labour and social development the environment and anti-corruption, including clauses in of our employees within a framework of equal our contracts to ensure that they are also met by all our opportunity. suppliers and service providers. 28 The International Labour Organization’s Fundamental its sustainability strategy. Based on these new universally Conventions. Iberia applies its general principles, recogapplied objectives, Iberia will intensify its efforts in order to, nising freedom of association and unions and the right to together with the rest of the players implied, end poverty collective bargaining; the elimination of all forms of forced in all its forms, reduce inequality and fight climate change or compulsory labour; the effective abolition of child labour; and the elimination of discrimination in respect of Companies for a society free from violence against employment and occupation. women programme. Iberia has joined the protocol set up by the Spanish Ministry of Health, Social Services and Equality to collaborate on supporting and promoting its information The 17 Sustainable campaigns. Taking part in this project demonstrates that Development the company is committed to equality awareness activities, respect for fundamental rights and the construction of a Goals (SDG) entered into force society free from violence against women. officially on 1 January 2016 Sustainable Development Goals. The 17 Sustainable We support the best ethical Development Goals (SDG) of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development were approved by world leaders in practices and we participate September 2015 at an historic United Nations summit in international and national and entered into effect officially on 1 January 2016. initiatives Iberia is committed to them and adopts them to establish 29 2 Organisational profile 2.8 Commitment to Quality Iberia is strongly committed to its customers and offers one of the highest quality services to ensure their satisfaction. This Committed to our customers, commitment extends to employees and shareholders in order to guarantee the company’s sustainability through efficient employees and shareholders management of key processes. to ensure the sustainability of In this regard, all of the company’s activities are governed by Iberia the strictest quality standards. Area Main certifications Scope Certifying body ISO 9.000 Training and knowledge management AENOR Verification of greenhouse Flight and ground operations AENOR gas emissions Iberia GRI G4 Corporate Responsibility report AENOR Measuring and monitoring the quality AENOR Mark N AENOR of service Madrid Excelente Management excellence AENOR Aeronautical maintenance National and international agencies Competent body certifications (EASA, FAA, etc.) Iberia Maintenance ISO 9.110 and PECAL General maintenance activity AENOR ISO 17.025 Meteorological Laboratory AENOR ISO 9.000 National airport activity AENOR Iberia Airport Services Environmental management national ISO 14.000 AENOR airports 30 GRI 2.8 Content Index [G4-12] 2.9 Awards The hard work of the company and its employees is acknowledged every year through the awards it receives from various institutions and social agents. Below are some of the most significant from 2016. Iberia and Iberia Express, the most punctual The best transformation process Iberia and Iberia Express continue to achieve success Iberia received the Airline Turnaround of the Year award in punctuality, one of the indicators most valued by in 2016 at the CAPA annual gala held in Amsterdam, the customers. In 2016, Iberia and Iberia Express were the leading aviation information, analysis and data supplier. most punctual airlines in the world in their respective categories, according to Flightstats, the leading consultancy firm in flight information, services and applications for the travel industry. This information is published in flightstats.com; to read, please click here. Over the last four years, Iberia has been improving its place in the punctuality ranking, reaching the top position. It was the fourth most punctual airline in the world in 2013, the third in 2014, the second in 2015 and the first in 2016. In addition, Iberia Express was the most punctual low-cost airline in the world, a position it occupied for the third year in a row, and is an important recognition at an international level for the effort, commitment and dedication of an airline that was created in 2011. Oneworld, which Iberia and Iberia Express belong to, was also considered the most punctual air alliance, for the fourth consecutive year Luis Gallego, Chairman of Iberia (on the left) receives the award from Peter Harbison, Executive Chairman of CAPA. The financial results of Iberia were decisive in the jury’s decision. In 2014, the company obtained its first operating profit since the beginning of the economic crisis and in 2015 multiplied them by five. CAPA highlighted that the improvement in Iberia’s profitability occurred simultaneously with a growth in capacity by two-figure percentages. “Iberia’s turnaround in the challenging Spanish market has been remarkable. Iberia has achieved major labour productivity improvements and unit cost reductions” Peter Harbison, Executive Chairman of CAPA 31 2 Organisational profile IBTA Business Travel Awards Universal Spaniard Award Iberia received awards for both the best airline for national In November, Iberia received the Universal Spaniard Award routes and for routes with America at the IBTA Business 2016, given by the Fundación Independiente. This is the first Travel Awards, which recognise good practices in the time in the history of the awards that this has been given to tourism and business tourism sector. a company. The winners were chosen from the assessments of the assoThe award recognises the contribution of the company to ciation’s different travel managers. the image and name of our country, as well as fostering tourism and spreading our culture. For this reason, the Fundación Independiente decided unanimously to award the prize this year to Iberia. The Universal Spaniard awards celebrated their 20th anniversary last year. Each year, they choose somebody who has contributed to spreading the image of Spain abroad. Some of the award winners have been Camilo José Cela, Plácido Domingo, Vicente Ferrer, Federico Mayor Zaragoza, Margarita Salas, Julio Iglesias, Miguel Induráin, Pedro Duque, el padre Ángel, Rafa Nadal, Valentín Fuster and Juan Miguel Villar Mir. 32 The best travel magazine for customers The Excelente magazine, which Iberia offers to business customers and in the VIP lounges, received the award for the world’s best customer travel magazine at the Travel Media Awards, the most prestigious awards in the sector. The Ronda magazine, the other publication available to Iberia passengers, was updated and totally redesigned in 2016. The new version has original content and fresh ideas written in an approachable, informal style, to inspire the Recognition in social networks community of customers of the Spanish airline, made up of The Prnoticias.com group awarded Iberia the prize for the 1.9 million passengers a month, to travel. best communication in social media, as part of the 14th edition of its communication and journalism awards. Prnoticias thus recognised the airline’s efforts to get closer The new edition is offered to its customers, communicate useful and interesting inforon all Iberia, Iberia Express and mation and attempt to resolve any queries of its followers in the shortest time possible. Air Nostrum flights to and from Spain Carolina Moreno, from the Communication Department and Sara Losa, from Publicity, Brand and Sponsorship, together with part of the Social Networks team, collecting the prize on behalf of Iberia 33 2 Organisational profile Award at Fitur 2.10 Memberships of associations At its 2016 edition, the organisation of the International Iberia is part of oneworld, one Tourism Fair (Fitur) awarded the Iberia stand the prize as one of the three largest world alliof the best in the companies category. ances of airline companies in their The winners were selected based on criteria such as the natural markets. Since it started appropriateness of the stand with regard to marketing it has maintained its vocation of needs, the ease of identifying it with the image of the offering its customers a product and product and the originality and innovation of its design. service with the highest quality standards. Iberia joined oneworld in September 1999, and during these shared Prize for the Iberia Now project years, Iberia has witnessed its expansion. Oneworld is an alliance of 15 frontline companies. In addition to Iberia, The internal communication project Iberia Now was one it includes Air Berlin, American Airlines, British Airways, of the winners of the 14th Expansion and Employment Cathay Pacific, Finnair, Japan Airlines, LAN Airlines, TAM Awards, which recognise innovation in managing people in Airlines, Malaysia Airlines, Qantas, Qatar Airways, Royal companies. Jordanian, S7 Airlines and Sri Lankan Air, and over 30 subsidiaries. The companies in the alliance work to offer their customers an unbeatable travel experience, with Iberia Now is a mobile app the highest quality standards and exclusive benefits for for employees which is frequent flyers, such as the option to earn and redeem based on transparency and Avios/miles across the entire network. transversal culture Emerald or sapphire frequent flyers can access more than 600 VIP Rooms across the world and also enjoy other benefits, such as higher baggage allowances and priority This is a strategic tool to manage the internal change to treatment. Emerald frequent flyers can access fast track a more agile, more modern company. The app is accessecurity at some airports. sible from any device and makes it possible to reach all its employees immediately. Other organisations IATA (International Air Transport Association. Iberia is part of the International Air Transport Association (IATA), an international organisation that brings together approximately 250 regular airlines, responsible for the majority of national and international air traffic. This forum is dedicated to representing the sector internationally, promoting the simplification of operating processes, lowering costs and improving safety. For passengers, IATA is a guarantee of service quality and synonymous with fair business practices. Iberia has actively collaborated in the association’s activities related to Europe, North America and South America. 34 GRI 2.10 Content Index [G4-16] ALA (Association of Airlines operIberia is also part of the Latin Amerating in Spain). Iberia is a member ican and Caribbean Air Transport of the association and is represented Association (ALTA) and, together with on the Management Board, the Iberia Express and British Airways, the Administrators Committee, the Users European Low Fares Airline AssociaCommittee and the Safety Committee. ALA has been tion (Elfaa). functioning for more than 50 years and the vast majority of the regular airlines operating in Spain, both national and Alliances international, are members. It currently represents over 70% of the turnover on the Spanish market. Its purposes Joint Business Agreements benefit both airlines and particuinclude overseeing the safety and quality of the services larly customers, who have more flight options and more provided by airlines. competitive prices. At a time of significant change for the air market, alliances are a major asset for optimising the flight Aceta (Association of Spanish Air network. The company has signed different strategic agreeTransport Companies) The company ments in order to manage the routes operated in certain is also on the Management Board of geographical areas together. The agreements influence the the association which defends the capacity, schedules, prices, sales policies and sales condiinterests of the member companies to the Government and tions, and other variables, resulting in more flight options and agricultural service providers that affect air transport. a wider sales offering for customers. 35 3 Stakeholder engagement 1959 Two young passengers watching recent arrivals in a Superconstellation aircraft 36 Iberia considers identifying the stakeholders and understanding their expectations and needs are essential for guaranteeing business sustainability. In accordance with this strategy the company analyses them to classify them according to their importance for meeting the goals and their capacity to influence the company or be influenced by it. Iberia’s stakeholders are divided into: Shareholders Customers Society Regulator Employees Suppliers GRI – 3 Content Index [G4-24 / G4-25 / G4-26 / G4-27] 37 3 Stakeholder engagement Not all the stakeholders participate directly in the preparation of this report, but all their opinions are taken into As a company, Iberia account and in some cases they are informed of the contents in case they have any comments or contribuwill assist stakeholders tions to make before the report is published. Deepening in relation to the relationship with our stakeholders is one of the goals Sustainability goals of the Sustainability Plan that the company is developing. Breakdown Goal Communication Channels Materiality Analysis Commercial Communications. Airline, airport Customer service offices. Customers services Achieve customer satisfaction with our Iberia.com Interviews with key customer and aircraft services. Social Networks. service managers. maintenance Ensure business sustainability. Call centres. Complaints analysis. customers. Claims management. Events. Airline Direct participation in these Defend common interests within the associations and associations. IATA materiality analysis. airline industry. alliances. Working groups Social Networks. Interviews with External Press Releases. Communications managers. Maintain permanent interaction Media and society Corporate Website. Centre for Sociological Research with the media. Inform and interact in general. Interviews and meetings with studies. instantly with the digital community journalists. Market study, Madrid Excelente -Institutional Relations and FTSE4Good. Society Applicable law. Protect the environment and our IAG Annual Report External audits. Environmental surroundings. Iberia’s CR Report Internal and external materiality results CSR Communication Channel. Collaborate actively in organizations, Corporate Website. NGOs and social Analyse requests from NGOs and especially those related to our Associated NGOs. organizations. foundations. employees. Volunteers’ information (Intranet). Government, Guarantee compliance with the AENA, Civil regulations in each area of activity. Regulator Working groups. Aviation, ICAO, Maintain a cooperative attitude with Key aspects of applicable External audits. IATA, national regulators in order to help maximize regulation. Specific press releases. and local the benefit of regulation for all governments stakeholders. Internal communication channels. Employees Contribute to career development and Regular meetings between Internal materiality survey. Employees to employee wellbeing managers and employees -Workplace Climate Survey. Grievance mechanisms. Suggestions box. 38 Ensure transparent recruitment Suppliers processes and maintain a relationship Suppliers and Supplier management Interviews with service that adds value to all parties. subcontractors systems. procurement managers. Establish and promote responsible procurement Shareholder and investor Responsible investing criteria. relations office. Shareholders Transmit transparently all relevant Key issues addressed in the IAG Shareholders’ Meeting. corporate and financial information. Shareholders’ Meeting. shareholders. Board of Directors. Fulfil the obligations of corporate Corporate Governance Duties, Market analysts. Quarterly and annual reports. governance. dependent on the Board of Market presentations. Directors. IAG website. 39 4 Material aspects and boundaries 1981 Guernica arriving in Madrid in the hold of an Iberia Jumbo 40 Iberia has followed the recommendations of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) to prepare the materiality analysis. The sources are those stated in the previous point. GRI – 4 Content Index [G4-18 / G4-19 / G4-20 / G4-21 / G4-DMA] 41 4 Material aspects and boundaries 42 Result of the material aspects for each stakeholder: Stakeholder General aspect Specific aspect CR Report section Products and service categories where safety and Product health impacts are evaluated. 12. Product responsibility responsibility Customer satisfaction surveys Airline, airport Customers services Iberia’s economic performance. and aircraft Company’s market presence/weight. 7. Economic maintenance Economic aspects Development of investments and indirect economic performance customers. impacts. 9. Social Employees Employee training programmes performance CO2 emissions and other polluting emissions. Effluents and waste generation. Environmental Our products and services. 8. Environmental Airline associations Fines and sanctions for environmental nonand alliances. compliance. Product Products and service categories where safety and 12. Product responsibility health impacts are evaluated. responsibility Employees (hiring, welfare benefits, etc.) Company/employee labour relations. 9. Social Employees Composition of the workforce (diversity and equal performance opportunity) Products and service categories where safety and health impacts are evaluated. Society Product Customer satisfaction surveys. 12. Product responsibility Products subject to public debate or banned. responsibility Substantiated complaints regarding customer privacy and data. Media and Society in Iberia’s economic performance. general. Company’s market presence/weight. 7. Economic Economic aspects Development of investments and indirect economic performance impacts. Impacts of our operations on biodiversity. CO2 emissions and other polluting emissions. Environmental Effluents and waste generation. 8. Environmental Our products and services (environmental impacts). Environmental assessment of suppliers. 43 4 Material aspects and boundaries Stakeholder General aspect Specific aspect CR Report section Centres with development programmes for the local Society community. 11. Society Evaluation of the social impact of suppliers. Society GOs and social Agreements and contracts containing Human Rights organizations. Human Rights clauses and employee training in this matter. 10. Human Rights Operations and suppliers at risk in terms of child labour. Composition of the workforce. Employees 9. Social performance (diversity and equal opportunity) Complaints and claims on environmental matters. Government, Grievance mechanisms AENA, Civil Regulator Complaints about human rights through formal Aviation, ICAO, All grievance mechanisms. Various IATA, national and local Significant fines and sanctions for legal violations. governments Fines and sanctions related to the provision and use of the company’s products. Employees (hiring, welfare benefits, etc.) Company/employee labour relations. Protection of employees’ health and operating safety. Employees Employees 9. Social performance Employee training programmes. Employees Composition of the workforce (diversity and equal opportunity). Corporate 6. Corporate Company management. Decision-making system. Governance governance 7. Economic Iberia’s economic performance. Suppliers Economic aspects Suppliers and performance subcontractors Environmental Environmental assessment of suppliers. 8. Environmental Corporate Company management. 6. Corporate governance Decision-making system. governance Iberia’s economic performance. Company’s market presence/weight. 7. Economic Economic aspects Development of investments and indirect economic performance Shareholders impacts. IAG -Energy consumption in the development of operations. shareholders. -Water consumed and recycled. Market Analysts Environmental Impacts of our operations on biodiversity. 8. Environmental CO2 emissions and other polluting emissions. -Effluents and waste generation. Centres with development programmes for the local Society community. 11. Society Measures taken by Iberia to combat corruption. 44 Employees are the only stakeholders who have directly holders and manages its Corporate Responsibility on the participated in the materiality analysis. In addition, existing basis thereof. records and databases showing the company’s daily dealWith regard to the sustainability goals, in 2017 we will ings with these stakeholders were analysed and interviews analyse the existing methodology with a view to engaging were held with the main managers of the activities directly the direct participation of more stakeholders. related to them. Points 6-12 of this report will analyse materiality according This analysis will be updated annually to ensure that the to the nature of the information. company is aware of the material aspects of its stake45 5 CR Report Profile 1929 Maintaining an aircraft on the back of a camel in Cape Juby 46 Every year, Iberia prepares its Corporate Responsibility Report in order to strengthen ties with stakeholders. The report reflects the commitment transparently and aims to serve as a tool for meeting the information expectations of the different stakeholders of the company, in terms of economic, social and environmental management. A tool that brings us closer to our stakeholders. Through its publication, Iberia complements the financial and corporate governance information presented to the General Shareholders’ Meeting. The report reflects the commitment to and satisfies the information expectations of the different stakeholders GRI – 5 Content Index [G4-17 / G4-18 / G4-21 / G4-33] 47 5 CR Report Profile Iberia has extensive experience in publishing this type of report. The first report was published in 1994 in order to give an account of its sustainability commitments from an environmental standpoint. Since then it has been reporting information on Corporate Responsibility for the different stakeholders. The report is available on IAG’s website, along with editions from previous years In 2014 it went a step further and tackled a new challenge: follow the criteria set out in the G4 Guidelines, published by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), for preparing extensive sustainability reports. This model inspired the 2015 report, and has inspired the 2016 report too, with the certainty that it will increase the interest of its content to stakeholders. In 1994 Iberia published its first Report on the environment In order to prepare this report information was gathered for the period 1st January to 31st December 2016. The report covers all of Iberia’s activities and prioritises material information, without omitting relevant information. The report follows the G4 Guidelines criteria for preparing sustainability reports If there are any variations in the scope and cover of the information, they have been indicated within the report. This year there have not been changes in the formula used for calculating the data provided compared to previous reports. 48 49 6 Governance 1963 Ceremony to present Iberia’s first DC8 aircraft in Long Beach 50 Materiality Main stakeholders for whom governance is material: Shareholders or investors Society in general Employees Main material aspects in order of importance: Society management Decision-making system Ethics and integrity GRI – 6 Content Index [G4-48 / G4-49] 51 6 Governance The bodies involved in corporate governance include the 6.1 IAG – Iberia governance boards of directors of IAG and Iberia, which are responsible structure for defining the goals and strategies, including approving the general policy lines, preparing the programmes and Corporate governance is the set of practices governing and defining the priorities for carrying out the business activity, controlling relationships among a company’s stakeholders, as well as promoting and supervising management and such as relationships between Shareholders, the Board fulfilment of the goals established. of Directors and Executive Management and processes through which these three bodies interact, manage and monitor the future of the company are set out. Iberia is committed to Corporate Governance also responds to the demands of the company’s social environment, adhering to the use of good the duties of Corporate social and environmental practices, with special attention Responsibility undertaken in to legal and regulatory requirements. the role performed by various In this regard, IAG complies with the applicable legal proviareas of the company sions on corporate governance in the United Kingdom (UK Corporate Governance Code) and Spain (Good Governance Code of Listed Companies). The many duties of the Board of Directors include approving the business plan and annual budgets; the Representation of corporate governance in IAG and Iberia SHAREHOLDERS Board of Directors Audit and Compliance 5 4 Safety Committee Committee 12 Nominations 5 5 Remuneration Committee Committee Executive Management Board of Directors Safety Remuneration Committee 3 9 3 Committee Executive Management 52 GRI – 6.1 Content Index [G4-34 / G4-35 / G4-36 / G4-37 / G4-38 / G4-39 / G4-40 / G4-41 / G4-42 / G4-43 / G4-46 / G4-47 / G4-49 / G4-50] financing policy and structure; the risk management and Communication with shareholders supervision policy and the corporate social responsibility policy, in addition to regularly monitoring internal inforThe relationship between IAG and the shareholder is essenmation and control systems. The Board takes note of and tial for the Iberia Group. For this reason, there is a specific approves the Corporate Responsibility Report, once it has area in charge of developing the consultation processes been verified and after its presentation to the Managebetween shareholders and the senior governing body for ment Committee. economic, environmental and social issues. The duties delegated to each area are detailed in the section The different stakeholders (shareholders, analysts, inveson Iberia’s CR Policy. Iberia (section 2.7). tors, etc.) can check the IAG website for regularly updated economic and financial information. Shareholders are called to the IAG Shareholders’ Annual More details on the duties, General Meeting where the managers present the Group’s goals and functioning of results (annual report and directors’ report). In this way, IAG corporate governance are meets its obligation to inform this group. available on the IAG website From these meetings it was deduced that one of the aspects about which shareholders demand more information is remuneration. IAG addresses this issue in the Annual Report The Articles of Association and regulations applicable to and in the specific remuneration report required by the the management of these governing bodies are published Spanish National Securities Market Commission (CNMV). in the corporate governance section of the IAG website. Similarly, in view of our activity, environmental issues are IAG’s Annual Report also contains information on the always of the utmost interest for our shareholders, esperemuneration policies, the Board diversity policy and cially regarding emissions and aircraft fuel consumption other aspects of corporate governance. efficiency. 53 6 Governance Nominations and remuneration With regards to remuneration, the goal of IAG is to offer global pay packages that are competitive with respect to the The nominations and remuneration policy is the responsimarket average, which are linked to the business strategy and bility of the Nominations Committee and the Remunerations consider the duties, skills and contribution of each person. Committee, respectively, which report to the IAG Board of Full details can be found in IAG’s Annual Report. Directors. Diversity on the Board The IAG senior executive The diversity policy of the IAG Board of Directors was remuneration policy is public approved on 18th June 2014. and published on the Group’s IAG is a group committed to the value of diversity and non-diswebsite crimination, and this is reflected in the Board’s determination to have governance bodies with a diverse composition. More information about Iberia’s diversity data (ratio of men The terms of reference of this Nominations Committee are to women holding senior positons) is available in the equal set out in the Regulations of the IAG Board of Directors. opportunity section of this report. Nº. non-execuMutualistas IAG diversity data for 2016 Nº directors Nº women tive directors IAG Board of Directors 12 10 (84%) 3 (25%) Iberia Board of Directors 9 4 (44%) 2 (24%) Iberia diversity data for 2016 Mutualistas Nº members Nº women Iberia Management Committee 10 1 (10%) Gender diversity (% women) 35% 33% 33% 30% 25% 24% 25% 20% 18% 14% 15% 12% 10% 10% 10% 5% 0% 2014 2015 2016 Consejo Administración IAG Board of Directors Grupo IAG Consejo Administración of Directors Iberia Iberia Board Comité Iberia de DirecciónCommittee Iberia Management 54 Conflicts of interest Reputation is an essential aspect of business that is closely To comply with this policy, all IAG employees, including linked to customers’ and the market’s image of the company. Iberia, are bound by the Securities Code of Conduct, which Therefore, it is important to identify, control and prevent sets out the rules of conduct follow. conflicts of interest. In this respect, IAG has established Iberia Group also has a Code of Conduct, which regulates policies to make sure that there are no conflicts of interest the conduct of Iberia directors, executives and employees within its governing bodies. when carrying out their duties and in their business and professional relationships. The directors’ obligations The code stipulates that they should prevent any personal are defined in the Board of or family interests from interfering in the decisions, activDirectors Regulations. The ities, services or advice taken, performed or provided on behalf of Iberia Group. Annual Report analyses fulfilment of these In 2016, as in the previous year, no conflicts of interest were detected in the performance of duties of Iberia’s Board of regulations Directors or Management Committee. 55 6 Governance financial reporting internal control policy, Iberia has moni6.2 Risk management toring systems based on the reference framework established by the CNMV. One of Iberia’s priority goals is to identify the most significant risks to the company and assess their economic impact, These internal control systems are configured around a probability and time horizon. To do this, we have the IAG protocol of processes that must be followed by the Board Audit and Compliance Committee. Its main duty is to superof Directors, the Audit and Compliance Committee of IAG, vise the effectiveness of internal control of the different Senior Management and the staff involved. group companies. Through its management, control activities are implemented in order to mitigate or eliminate the impact of risks and achieve the goals set. To support this effort, Iberia has an Internal Audit Iberia reports to the Audit Department, which is and Compliance Committee responsible for independent, through the Business Risk objective assurance and Management System consultancy. The Internal Audit department helps us to meet the compaIn addition to the supervision of the Committee, quarterly ny’s goals, assessing and improving the effectiveness of risk reports are compiled for Iberia’s Board of Directors and management, control and governance processes Management Committee in order to identify and manage the impacts, risks and opportunities detected through the The duties of this department include supporting the Audit Business Risk Management System. and Compliance Committee in supervising the internal control system, including financial information. Iberia’s Board of Directors and Management Committee perform the duties of identifying and managing economic, environmental and social business risks. 6.4 Ethics and integrity In order to guarantee compliance with the Good GovernIberia has a Code of Conduct setting out the general guideance recommendations of Spain’s National Securities lines that must govern the conduct of Iberia’s directors, Market Commission and the UK Good Governance Code, executives and employees when carrying out their duties self-assessment sessions on Iberia’s Business Risk Manageand in their business and professional relationships, acting ment System are held. in accordance with the laws of each country and respecting Further information on the main risks affecting the achievethe ethical principles of their respective cultures. ment of the group’s goals can be found in the IAG Annual To guarantee knowledge and compliance with it, various Report 2016. activities are carried out for employees, suppliers and intermediaries. This guarantees that all involved are aware of the principles that govern the conduct of Iberia and its 6.3 Internal and external audit employees in relation to third-parties. The transparency requirements of the securities markets Last year, 1,812 employees received e-learning training on are an important issue for providing security to the reliability the General Code of Conduct. of financial information. For this reason, and as set out in the 56 GRI 6.2 Content Index [G4-2 / G4-14 / G4-44 / G4-45 / G4-46 / G4-47 / G4-49 / G4-50] 6.3 [G4-46 / G4-47 / G4-49] 6.4 [G4-49 / G4-56 / G4-HR9] Seek to minimise and reduce our impact on the environment. Provide supply chain transparency and improve supply chain standards. In addition, all Iberia employees are bound by the Securities Code of Conduct published by IAG and anti-corruption laws, described in the corresponding section of this report. 6.5 Grievance mechanisms Several tools are available to Iberia Group employees to get advice and solve any incident that they may observe. There are also grievance mechanisms handled by an The IAG group has a Code of Conduct for Suppliers, which is external service provider to guarantee total confidentiality. applicable to the supply of goods and/or services to either All reports are analysed and a Reports Monitoring and IAG or any IAG company. This code reflects the values IAG Assessment Unit, consisting of Senior Managers of the demands from its suppliers: company, is informed in order to review them and take deciAct with honesty and integrity at all times in all our sions. business dealings. The company firmly undertakes not to take any disciplinary Provide a safe working environment where employees action against the employee who, in good faith, reports a are treated with dignity and respect. grievance. GRI 6.5 Content Index [G4-49 / G4-50 / G4-57 / G4-58 /G4-HR9] 57 7 Economic performance 1996 Iberia has been present online since that year with the portal www.iberia.com 58 Materiality Main stakeholders for which economic performance is material: Shareholders or investors Society in general Suppliers Main material aspects in order of importance: Iberia’s economic performance Company’s market presence/weight Development of investments and indirect economic impacts GRI Content Index [G4-DMA] 59 7 Economic performance 7.1 Economic figures This point summarises the main economic data demanded by GRI4. For more details of the economic results of the year and the risks and opportunities that may affect them, we recommend reading the IAG Annual Report. Economic value generated and distributed Iberia’s main contribution to economic and social development is defined by the impacts is has directly or indirectly on the different stakeholders. Iberia’s business activity generates a major economic impact, which directly favours society. Direct economic value generated (millions of €) 2016** Direct economic value distributed (millions of €) 2016** Recurring operating income 4,090 Operating costs (including non-recurring) 4,046 Operating income Employee wages and benefits 913 4,284 (including non-recurring) Company’s total contribution to pension plans 21 Financial assistance received from governments 0* Total amount paid in National Insurance 180 Airport or Air Navigation taxes 331 Settled taxes 708 Operating profit attributed to the Iberia segment in Donations (cash) 0.15 the consolidated financial Community investments 0 statements of the IAG Group was 271 million euros, compared * 2.2 million received in official subsidies for training, 2 million from R&D+i deductions. to 222 million euros in 2015 Direct economic value distributed (millions of €) ** Spain Rest of Europe America Other Operating costs (including non-recurring) 3,733 104 192 17 Employee wages and benefits 893 6 13 1 Direct economic value generated (millions of €)** Spain Rest of Europe America Other Employee wages and benefits 2,231 832 919 108 Operating income (including non-recurring) 2,418 834 923 109 **Data obtained from the financial statements of Iberia Líneas Aéreas de España, SA Operadora Sociedad Unipersonal. 60 GRI 7.1 Content Index [G4-9 / G4-EC1 / G4-EC3 / G4-EC4 / G4-EC7 / G4-EC8] Business activity Iberia’s activity in 2016 shows a growth trend, in terms of both offer and demand. The results of the Future Plan, which implemented efficiency measures in all areas of the company, allowed us to make a more competitive offer, recover routes closed in previous years and open new routes. The evolution of the main indicators: 2016 2015 % RKT (millions) Revenue Passenger Kilometre (Demand) 51,071 48,569 +5.2 ASK (millions) Available Seat Kilometres (Offer) 62.300 59,878 +4.0 CTK (millions) Cargo Tonne Kilometre(Demand) 1,094 1,057 +3.3 These indicators are the production units that measure the offer and demand of an airline and are used to standIn 2016 Iberia reported a load ardise this data with that of other companies, with different factor of 82.0%, 0.9 points up aircraft, different capacities and different routes. on last year Business activity (millions) 70.000 70,000 62.300 62,300 59,878 59.878 60.000 60,000 54.321 54,321 51.071 51,071 48,569 48.569 50.000 50,000 42,690 42.690 40.000 40,000 30.000 30,000 20.000 20,000 10.000 10,000 999 1,057 1.057 1,094 1.094 0 0 2014 2015 2016 RPK (Pasajeros-kilómetro-transportados, PKT Revenue Passenger Kilometre (Demand)Demanda) ASK Available AKO Seat Kilometres (Offer) (Asiento-kilómetro-ofertados, Oferta) TKT CTK carga Cargo(Tonelada-kilómetro-transportada, Tonne Kilometre(Demand) Demanda) 61 7 Economic performance At market level, international load factors reported an upward trend. 7.2 Innovation management Iberia invests considerable resources in projects with a strong Nº of %of the total of technological component and classified as R&D+i (Research Market DestinaIberia’s activity & Development + innovation) projects by independent tions (measured in ASK) experts. It also participates in obtaining subsidies to achieve a greater return on these projects, despite the changes that are Europe 60 21% happening in the subsidies arena. Domestic 32 12% Tax incentives represented a significant part of the return on investment achieved. The deduction figure for the 2016 tax Latin America 20 50% year exceeded two million euros. Africa and Middle East 12 4% In terms of public financing, in 2016 funds from the Centre for the Development of Industrial Technology (CDTI) were Far East 2 1% obtained in order to implement projects classified as research United States 5 13% and development projects, which acknowledges its technological importance. The funds are disbursed in accordance with the execution of a series of achievements of the respecAs you can see, 50% of Iberia’s capacity, measured in availtive projects. able seat kilometres (ASK), is on flights to and from Latin America. In 2016, three projects were Iberia operates an average of 250 flights a week to 20 destinations in 16 countries in Latin America and is the leader approved with an associated between Europe and Latin America. expenditure of 9.9 million euros In terms of domestic activity, Iberia is second with 29% of total activity (also measured in ASK). The market leader, In 2015, four projects were approved with an associated with a 31% share, is Vueling, which is also an IAG company. expenditure of 9.5 million euros, classified as an investment in R&D+i of 6.0 million euros, enabling 3.8 million euros in In terms of presence in the Madrid hub, Iberia accounts for financing to be obtained in the form of a subsidised loan, 40% of the airport’s total activity (measured in ASK). 62 GRI 7.2 Content Index [G4-EC4] with a non-refundable tranche of over 750,000 euros to be new systems for engineering and maintenance planning disbursed during 2016 and 2017. These are the following: and digitisation of the cabin and flight bag to access information via a single platform using tablets. COMINPRO15. New Integrated Platform of Joint Sales and Loyalty Service for Airlines. It aims to develop In 2016, three projects were approved with an associated various technological systems (NGS and CIP) integrated expense of 9.9 million euros, with 7.8 million euros classiin a shared platform to support the creation of new joint fied as an investment in R&D+i, which enabled financing of sales and loyalty programmes for SMEs. almost 3.7 million euros in the form of a subsidised loan, with a non-refundable tranche of more than 600,000 euros HANDCONC15. Development of a Joint Airport which will be disbursed during 2017 and 2018.These are Handling and Customer Relations Communication the following: System through multiple technological platforms, software and applications that permit greater efficiency AGIL. New web platform with optimisation of and comfort in passenger flow in airports, as well as its architecture and agile software development generating joint multi-management operations and procedures. optimising internal communication processes. INTEDATA16. System for the acquisition, treatment INTERNDC15. Creation of a New International and processing of data and information from a multitude Communications Protocol between Agents and of information channels, with the aim of increasing the Airlines according to NDC and the development of degree of knowledge regarding customers and be able to the technological tools necessary to standardise the create profile segmentation. language of communications between airlines and travel agents. DATAFORCE2016. System which makes it possible to personalise the services and the marketing offered to OPERCAEF15. Design and development of users and customers. operational management processes by reengineering systems and digitalising strategic tools, which includes a new system for simplifying crew management processes, 63 8 Environmental 2011 Iberia undertakes the first Spanish flight fuelled by biofuel 64 Materiality Main stakeholders for which the environment is material: Shareholders or investors Society in general Associations Employees Main material aspects in order of importance: Environmental impacts of our products and services CO2 emissions and other polluting emissions Environmental assessment of suppliers Impacts of our operations on biodiversity Effluents and waste generation GRI Content Index [G4-DMA] 65 8 Environmental Protecting the environment has been one of the corporate Fuel for reactors priorities of the company and forms part of its corporate (millions of tonnes) responsibility policy. Iberia constantly strives to achieve a sustainable balance between the development of its activi1.74 1.72 ties and its environmental impact. 1.72 1.7 1.7 Iberia’s business activities (passenger and cargo trans1.68 port, aircraft maintenance and airport services) have 1.66 1.64 1.63 environmental impacts, consume materials and energy and generate waste and effluents that generally affect the envi1.62 ronment. 1.6 1.58 To guarantee that these impacts are controlled, the 2014 2015 2016 company defines and updates a series of measures, including the implementation of environmental manageAverage age of fleet (years) ment systems; training, motivation and environmental awareness of its employees; periodic internal controls 10.5 10.23 and audits; and collaboration and participation in environ9.9 mental affairs along with its stakeholders. 10 9.5 8.1 Consumption summary 9 9 8.5 In the organisation 8 The company’s total internal energy consumption is 2014 2015 2016 66,298,369 Giga-joules, 98.9% of which are consumed in flight operations, which use aviation kerosene (Jet-A1) as fuel. The rest of the energy is consumed in ground operations. Intensity of emissions due to flight operations (g CO2/pkm) Electricity, natural gas, petrol and different types of diesel are the fuels customarily used. 90 89.6 3 89 Commercial aviation fuel (Jet-A1) has very specific characteristics (high freezing point of minus 47 degrees centigrade, 88 87 high thermal stability, etc.) and there is currently no economi87 86.5 cally and logistically viable alternative to it. Although specific 86 biofuels for aircraft are available, such as those produced with 85 energy crops (camelina, jatropha or algae) or from the treatment of different types of waste, their high production costs 84 and other technical impediments make them unviable in the 2014 2015 2016 short term. Protecting the environment is one of the priorities of the company and is part of its corporate responsibility policy 66 GRI 8.1 Content Index [G4-EN3 / G4-EN4 / G4-EN5 / G4-EN6 / G4-EN8 / G4-EN9 / G4-EN10 / G4-EN27 / G4-EN30 / G4-PR3] Direct greenhouse gas emissions, Outside the company Scope 1 (millions of tonnes of CO2 e) The energy consumed outside the organisation, contem6 5.22 5.44 plating the energy used in catering services and road transport 5 4.42 of its employees, totalled 26,224 GJ. The type of fuel considered is diesel A, consumed by catering vehicles and the fleet 4 of buses used to transport employees to the La Muñoza indus3 trial park. The calculation is based on the data reported by the 2 catering company and in the case of road transport, by esti1 mating the average consumption of each bus and calculating the number of kilometres travelled per route. 0 2014 2015 2016 Air quality, percentage of the fleet that complies with the CAEP 6 standard of the ICAO 85 90 80 68 70 61.7 60 50 40 30 20 10 0 Energy intensity 2014 2015 2016 The energy intensity of flight operations is measured in grams of CO2 emitted per passenger carried. This data is In this respect, Iberia is participating in collaboration with calculated based on the litres of fuel used by the company Aena (the Spanish Airport and Air Navigation Authority) during the year 2016, converted to kilogrammes and and the firm Alga Energy in a pilot project for obtaining converted to emissions (1 kg of kerosene equals 3.15 kg of biofuel from algae, which are cultivated and processed in CO2) and is divided between the production data, tonnes/ a greenhouse installed at Adolfo Suárez Madrid-Barajas kilometre transported (standard measurement in the aviaAirport. tion sector), taking into account the distance of the route, In 2016 total electricity consumption (295,861 GJ) was the weight of the passengers, the luggage and cargo transreduced by 0.64% across the company. ported, depending if these are babies, children or adults. The reduction in electricity consumption is largely due to implementing energy savings policies, which includes a In 2016, the company achieved series of initiatives to reduce energy consumption and the company’s carbon footprint. energy intensity of 86.48 grams of CO2 emitted per Consumption from heating and cooling, which totalled 266,190 GJ, rose during 2016 due to the increase in passenger carried, 3.54% less production in the industrial areas versus the previous year. than in 2014, taking it as the baseline year 67 8 Environmental Energy intensity in ground operations is measured in tonnes of CO2 emitted per employee. The different scopes of emis8.2 Protecting animal species sions are calculated (see the ground operations emissions Iberia does not agree to the transportation in its flights of section) and divided between the total employees in the species at risk of extinction and works in close collaboration company. Last year, emissions reached 4.45 tonnes per with institutions that promote the protection and conseremployee. vation of these, while actively contributing to returning illegally removed animals to their natural habitat. As an Water consumption example of this commitment, during 2016 and for the seventh year in succession, Iberia collaborated with the Total water consumption (252,996 cubic metres) fell by project organised by Fundación Migres for the recovery of 7.95% in 2016 compared to the previous year, thanks these species. mainly to the savings policies in place. All of the water supplied to the company comes from the mains and no water is collected or recycled or reused at any of its facilities. Among the reasons explaining this reduction are A happy ending for José the turtle changes in the working models, as well as the awareness Air Nostrum, Iberia’s franchised regional airline, raising campaigns carried out among the employees. carried a badly injured turtle free of charge from Alicante to Gran Canaria to aid his recovery. The transportation of the turtle involved the cooperation of Iberia’s airport services. The animal, weighing 50 kg, was founded wandering along a beach in Almería with serious injuries on its head and shell, probably caused by a boat. The turtle, given the name of José by the person who found it, is a loggerhead turtle, which is included in the Spanish Catalogue of Endangered Species, and was moved to the wild animal recovery centre in Tafira, one of the benchmark institutions in Europe for treating marine animals. 68 GRI 8.2 Content Index [G4-EN11 / G4-EN12 / G4-EN13 / G4-EN14] Thanks to this, there has been a reduction in early use 8.3 Combating of the Auxiliary Power Unit (APU) which supplies the climate change aircraft with the energy it needs for start-up, encouraging maximum use of the ground installations, for both Iberia is aware of the importance of combating climate electricity and air conditioning. To this end, permanent change for the well-being of society. Accordingly, the main coordination with the Ground Operations Department goal of its strategy is to reduce its CO2 emissions, to achieve has been established to make sure that aircraft are sustainable, efficient growth. In 2016, Iberia’s emissions “connected” to the facilities according to existing amounted to 5,434,893 tonnes of CO2 in its ground and contracts flight operations, an increase of 3.01% on the previous year, calculated according to the Kyoto Greenhouse Gas Protocol. Progress has also been made in the fuel management The measures comprising the company’s strategy to reduce system (FMS), search for the optimum flying level using the these emissions are described below: Nimbus system and use of alternate fuel, by improving the policy of closest alternative airports (operating conditions Flight emissions permitting), and in the planned reduction of fuel for using the APU on ground, by adjusting it to the real situation. As a result of its renewal process, the average age of the company’s fleet was 9.21 years at the end of 2016. During the year, the company took delivery of nine A319 aircraft and one Airbus A330-200, used on long-haul international “Green” approaches in London routes. These aircraft boast latest generation technology to optimise fuel consumption and reduce CO2 emissions. In 2016 Iberia achieved a substantial improvement in The saving per aircraft is 15% in kerosene (according to approaches to Heathrow airport compared to 2015, the manufacturer’s specifications) compared with the as was recognised by NATS, the UK’s air traffic services previous Airbus 340-300 aircraft, which no longer fly for supplier. the company The Airbus A-330-200 have latest generation technology to optimise fuel consumption and reduce CO2 emissions This progress was made possible thanks to Continuous Descent Approach, also known as “green” approaches. This is a technique through which the aircraft follows a vertical profile that minimises step down procedures. During 2016, other measures continued to reduce fuel It is applied whenever the safety of the operations so consumption and consequently, CO2 emissions, such as allows and in accordance with the published proceestablishing within the Flight Operations Department, a dures and air traffic control instructions. Fuel Efficiency Support Group (GSEC) with volunteer pilots from different fleets in order to document, debate, develop This type of manoeuvre has demonstrated its effiand publicise fuel savings initiatives by implementing good ciency in reducing atmospheric emissions, fuel practices. consumption and noise. GRI 8.3 Content Index [G4-EC2 / G4-EN7 / G4-EN15 / G4-EN16 / G4-EN17 / G4-EN18 / G4-EN19 / G4-EN20 / G4-EN27] 69 8 Environmental New global offsetting scheme Ground emissions The International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO) The greenhouse gas emissions from Iberia’s ground operahas agreed to adopt a global system of market tions account for approximately 1% of the total generated measures to mitigate CO2 emissions. The system, by the company. These emissions can be classified into: called Corsia (Carbon Offsetting and Reduction Scheme for International Aviation), consists of a GEIs 2016 vs 2015 global emissions offsetting scheme, through which 24,000 23,524 23,486 the airline operators will have to acquire from 2021 emission units generated in projects in other sectors 23,000 to offset the growth in emissions above 2020’s level. 22,000 20,949 20,949 21,000 20,382 20,251 20,000 19,000 18,000 Direct emissions (Scope 1). In our case these are Corsia will be rolled out in two phases: the first, emissions from boilers and diesel and natural gas with voluntary participation by the countries generators; as well as emissions from petrol and diesel (2021 2026) and the second, where it will be vehicles used for aircraft handling tasks. obligatory (2027-2035), with the exception of those with very low development levels or interThese emissions went up in 2016 compared to 2015 due national aviation activity levels. Coverage is set to the increase in consumption through emissions from out on the basis of routes included between counboilers and generators (diesel) and vehicles belonging to tries participating in the system, with the same Iberia or which are rented (diesel and petrol). treatment for all the aircraft operators that fly a certain route. Only the routes between countries Indirect emissions (Scope 2). Emissions produced affiliated with the system are subject to offset during power generation (by different means) used in the requirements. company’s facilities. These rose to 20.251 tonnes of CO2, Sixty-six countries have already offered to particia volume similar to this in 2015 (see section 8.1) pate in the system voluntarily, potentially covering 80% of all the international aviation emissions, Other indirect emissions (Scope 3). Emissions which is a relevant step to contribute to holding the produced by the catering services, by the employee increase in global temperature below 2º centigrade, transport routes and the other means of transport used as was agreed in Paris. However, many important to travel to work. The emissions were 23,486 tonnes of elements have to be developed throughout the CO2 and remained stable in relation to 2015. This is an next three years to facilitate the implementation estimate, given the complexity of the calculations, as the of Corsia, such as monitoring, reporting and vericompany does not have direct control over them. fication (MRV) procedures, recording procedures and defining the eligibility criteria of the emission units that the aircraft operators will purchase for the offsetting purposes. 70 8.4 Local air quality and noise In 2016 direct emissions accounted for 39.7% In addition to CO2, Iberia must consider its emissions of other gases and noise corresponding to aircraft landing and of the total emissions take-off manoeuvres at altitudes of less than 900 metres from ground operations; (3,000 feet), called LTO cycles (Landing Take Off). These indirect emissions accounted manoeuvres include approach, landing, take-off, climbing and taxiing of aircraft, when nitrogen oxides (NOx), carbon for 27.92% and the rest monoxide (NO) and unburned hydrocarbons (HC) are corresponded to other emitted indirect emissions (Scope 3). The standards for emissions of gases such as nitrogen oxide (NOx) and noise are set by ICAO The ICAO is responsible for establishing the maximum emissions of these gases and noise levels for aircraft. Iberia’s fleet fully complies with ICAO NOx standards (CAEP 1 and 2). With regard to the good practices defined in CAEP 4, its fleet complies 100%. Although the most restrictive standards (CAEP 6 and 8) are not applicable to the company’s aircraft engines, their level of compliance has been analysed as a good practice exercise and 85% and 34% were achieved, respectively. In the coming years this percentage is expected to rise when the new A-350 fleet is introduced. Non-polluting cars at Barajas In terms of noise, in 2016 the situation of Iberia’s fleet compared to the corresponding noise standard (Chapter 3) Last year, testing on a car powered by liquefied gas was reflects full compliance. The entire fleet (100%) complies begun on the runways of Madrid-Barajas airport. The with Chapter 4, and 34% complies with the new Chapter 14 initiative came from the Ground Equipment departstandard, which will apply for certification of new aircraft as ment in the Airports area and was in collaboration with from 31 December 2017. Repsol. To mitigate the impact of noise in its operations, the The use of liquefied gas prevents polluting particles, company complies with the operating procedures set out by which contributes to the objective of reducing emisthe Spanish Civil Aviation Authority, making limited use of sions, consistent with Iberia’s commitment to the auxiliary engines in airports, reducing the use of brakes by environment. using the thrust reverse technique and following the routes The Ground Equipment Renewal Plan has made it established by air traffic control for arrival and departure at possible as 18% of the equipment will be electrical, airports. In addition, in 2016 the company introduced new and therefore do not generate emissions. landing procedures for the short and long haul fleet in order to reduce their impact. GRI 8.4 Content Index [G4-EN21 / G4-EN27] 71 8 Environmental A sustainable catering model As regards management of the catering waste produced in aircraft, in 2016 Iberia launched an innovative project to establish a sustainable model, together with Biogas Fuel Cell (BFC), ESCI-UPF, Ecoembes, Ferrovial and Gate Gourmet (GG). It is called Life + “Zero Cabin Waste” and affects both waste deemed category 3 waste (generated on flights inside the European Union) and category 1 waste (generated on non-European Union flights). The aim of the project is to study the different flows of waste produced in aircraft cabins, propose minimisation measures and implement waste separation 8.5 Effluents and waste on board (the The water used at Iberia’s industrial facilities in Madrid recoverable and is treated at EDAR (Wastewater Treatment Plants): one non-recoverable industrial wastewater treatment plant which discharges fraction), as well into the Las Rejas stream 2,626 cubic metres and one urban as collection and processing. It will wastewater treatment plant which discharges into the River especially have an Jarama 93,089 cubic metres. effect on category The other facilities use the airport wastewater treatment 1 waste, to propose plants or the mains wastewater treatment plant, in the case alternatives to the of the company’s head offices in Madrid. All the discharge current Spanish parameters of these effluents comply with the limits stipregulations, which ulated by the Integrated Environmental Authorisation in only contemplates industrial areas and the parameters stipulated by the airport it being sent to landfill or incinerand mains wastewater treatment plants. ated. Iberia produces solid urban waste and hazardous waste in its In short, the project will draw up a procedure that industrial areas, airport activities and cargo terminals. Iberia sets out the basis for sustainable management of produced 1,909.58 tonnes of solid urban waste in 2016. waste, with the least impact possible, by analysing Hazardous waste produced amounted to 1,040.45 tonnes current management and proposing management of different types, which were delivered to authorised waste through life cycle analysis. management companies and it is the latter which define the elimination method. Of this volume, 0.05% was reused; More information is available on the project’s 0.2% was recycled; 26% was used in waste to energy, and website: cabinwaste.eu 73.75% was placed in secure waste deposit sites. 72 GRI 8.5 Content Index [G4-EN22 / G4-EN23 / G4-EN24 / G4-EN25 / G4-EN26] 8.6 Environmental management During 2016, Iberia’s CO2 emissions monitoring and The Integrated Quality and Environment System of Iberia’s reporting system for intra-European flights and ground airport services has been certified by AENOR, under ISO operations (industrial areas) was audited by Aenor according 9001 and ISO 14001, respectively. The special feature of to the European emissions allowance system. this system lies in containing in a single system the activity of more than 27 elements of the Spanish airports network. In 2016, Iberia’s fleet also complied with the international environmental standards established by the International Environment-related spending totalled 10 million euros, Civil Aviation Organisation (ICAO) on noise emissions and incluying environmental repairs and conservation (one air quality below an altitude of 900 metres in the vicinity million euros), employee costs associated with enviof airports. ronmental management (1 million euros), emissions allowances (six million euros) and environmental tax (two In its ground activities the company identifies and assesses million euros). its environmental aspects and establishes its level of impact. Iberia develops its management strategy in accordance with this assessment. The company has externally certified environmental systems management and internal Environment-related spending management systems and specific procedures that cover all totalled 10 million euros of the activities related to the environment. GRI 8.6 Content Index [G4-EN1 / G4-EN2 / G4-EN28 / G4-EN29 / G4-EN31 / G4-EN34] 73 8 Environmental www.iberia.com and the corporate website of the Company 8.7 Environmental offer a CO2 calculator, which is available to estimate carbon projects emissions by journey. IAGOS (In-service Aircraft (for a Global Observing System) The IAGOS project, included within the European Strategy Forum on Research Infrastructures, consists of fitting longhaul aircraft with scientific instruments to analyse the chemical atmospheric composition (H2O, O3, CO, CO2, NOx) and air particles (aerosols and clouds), assessing air quality at certain altitudes throughout the world. The on-board measuring equipment of one of our Airbus A340 aircraft makes it possible to analyse and assess the composition and quality of the atmosphere at high altitudes and in the middle of the Atlantic Ocean and has made Iberia the first Eco-friendly aircraft paint Spanish airline and the third European airline to collaborate in a Iberia paints its aircraft using the basecoat/clearcoat scientific project of this size, having been selected to take part system and was one of the first airlines to use this system, of the project due to its leadership position in the Europe-Latin which offers considerable benefits, as it enables savings America market. of 30% in materials and also reduces emissions and water consumption. From an environmental conservation point of view, applying a single coat of point instead of two or three reduces paint consumption, reduces the weight of the aircraft and improves its aerodynamics, which translates into less fuel costs and reduced CO2 emissions. Until it leaves the fleet in late 2017, this plane, with registration code EC-GUQ, flies to different destinations in Latin America and Central America and can carry out long-term observation, while providing information to the weather services practically in real time. These measurements serve to make more accurate forecasts about future weather conditions and to design policies to fight climatic change. The basecoat/clearcoat system enables savings of CO2 calculator 30% in material and also In accordance with its environmental strategy to combat reduces emissions and water climate change, Iberia provides information to customers and employees about the carbon footprint of their trip. consumption 74 The clearcoat protection makes the aircraft’s fuselage The implementation of the system was authorised by the maintain its shine and colour for much longer, with the aviation authority after passing a validation process in resulting aesthetic benefits but also offering environmental which a group of approximately 65 pilots, in five aircraft, and operation benefits, as less painting cycles are required. completed two phases of data checking and verification. A total of 1,500 flights were conducted and 2,160 reports Another of the characteristics of clearcoat is hydrophobicity, were filled in, with a final satisfaction rating of over 99%. meaning it discourages the build-up of water and dust. This means less aircraft cleaning is required and reduces fuel consumption, by improving aerodynamics. The use of these devices Electronic flight documentation began in the A-320 fleet, Iberia has enabled the cabins of its aircraft so that pilots can for shortand medium-haul use the Electronic Flight Bag, which makes it possible to do without documentation on paper (an average of 60 kg per flights, and will soon spread flight), save fuel, increase the efficiency of the operation to the long-haul fleet and reduce CO2 emissions. 75 9 Social Performance 2014 A special event, when for the first time in the history of Iberia, on a long-haul flight, the crew was made up exclusively of women 76 Materiality Main stakeholders for which social performance is material: Employees Society in general Shareholders or investors NGOs and social organisations. Main material aspects in order of importance: Protection of employees’ health and operating safety Employee training programmes Employees (hiring, welfare benefits, etc.) Company/employee labour relations Composition of the workforce (diversity and equal opportunity) Equal pay for men and women GRI Content Index [G4-DMA] 77 9 Social Performance 9.1. Employment Iberia has a diverse staff consisting of 16,283 employees divided into five groups, which include National Ground with 71.60% of staff; Cabin Crew, with 18.71% and Pilots with 7.42%. Staff breakdown by group Average length of Group Nº of people Average service National Ground 11,658 44.27 15.3 Cabin Crew 3,046 44.54 18.47 Pilots 1,209 45.85 16.95 Local staff 357 46.5 14.16 Spaniards outside national territory 13 45.15 18.46 TOTAL 16,283 44.49 16.37 Staff breakdown by business area Business area Ground Flight Total Corporate 467 467 Air transport 1,561 4,255 5,816 Airports 7,351 7,351 Maintenance 2,649 2,649 GENERAL TOTAL 12,028 4,255 16,283 In 2016, the trend of a falling headcount continued, due Workforce to the labour force adjustment plans (ERE), largely made through early retirements and voluntary redundancies to 16,900 16,792 achieve a more streamlined organisation. 16,800 16,700 16,564 16,600 16,500 16,400 16,283 16,300 16,200 16,100 16,000 2014 2015 2016 78 GRI 9.1 Content Index [G4-9 / G4-10 / G4-EC5 / G4-EC6 / G4-LA1 / G4-LA2] Quality of employment The relationship between salaries at Iberia and the minimum wage is the following, in euros per year: Iberia is committed to quality, indefinite employment and upholds this aim as part of its goal of building an ambitious and Minimum wage 9,172,8 competitive company. Iberia minimum wage: 14,457.5 Staff breakdown by contract type IBERIA AVERAGE WAGE: 45,867.3 Contract type Nº. of people Indefinite regular timetable 11,595 Indefinite part-time 1,540 Hence, the average salary Indefinite discontinuous 199 in Iberia is five times higher Indefinite irregular timetable 1,484 than the Minimum Wage Temporary 1,465 TOTAL 16,283 People with disabilities In pursuance of the applicable laws and regulations, Iberia Of its total contracts 8.99% are temporary and meet the must hire a number of people with disabilities equivalent to company’s need to adjust workloads due to the seasonal no less than 2% of its total staff. nature of the activity. Given the company’s complex productive nature, it is espeNo. of temporary contracts cially difficult to incorporate a sufficient number of people 389 that have changed to indefinite with disabilities to meet that quota so the company meets its legal obligation through the alternative measures stipuEmployees with temporary contracts enjoy the same lated by law. welfare benefits as employees with indefinite contracts (healthcare, access to grants, special salaries, luncheon In both cases Iberia guarantees compliance through its vouchers and free plane tickets, in addition to other collaboration with the Envera Association, the activity of benefits). which is described later on in this report. 79 9 Social Performance 9.2 Relations with employees Union representation Internal communication Iberia employees have union freedom in all the countries in If in 2015 the challenge was to make internal commuwhich it operates. nication into a strategic lever to boost the company’s transformation, especially cultural change, in 2016 efforts Flight staff is represented in the Flight Committee. The focused on fostering pride in belonging, motivation, direct union representatives for Ground staff act on a national contact and employee commitment to achieving the goals level through the Inter-Workplace Committee and on a set. local level through 18 Workplace Committees and a further 13 workplaces nationwide have workers’ delegates. Internationally, Iberia has workers’ representatives in a large percentage of the countries in which it operates. Although the company Percentage of union membership through wages has experienced a spectacular transformation in record time, Ground 61.30 % we are only halfway there Cabin Crew 32.74 % and we still have a way to go. PILOTS 100 % 80 GRI 9.2 Content Index [G4-11 / G4-LA4 / G4-HR4] Iberia Now In 2016 new initiatives were launched once again to boost direct communication in the field, especially in the Therefore, in February 2016 a new and disruptive maintenance and handling areas. In the specific case of internal communication tool called Iberia Now was maintenance, several events were held in the hangars, born. This is a corporate app that employees, volunwhere the new technical director, André Wall, shared tarily, can download to their personal mobile devices with a large audience the projects and challenges for the and therefore have within their grasp the most year. Several different sessions aimed at team leaders and useful and popular functions from our Intranet, such management personnel were also organised to develop as pay slips, issuing tickets, email, their calendar or leadership and communication skills. the directory. Extensive work was carried out under the responsibility Just a few months after the launch, 14,500 of the National Airports Director, José Luis de Luna, and employees had installed Iberia Now on their mobiles the director of Iberia Airport Services, Ángel Marcos, in or tablets and the app had been downloaded the Airport Services Division to get to the Spanish stations 21,000 times Thanks Iberia Now to Iberia Ibpróxima más cerca Now,de ti the communication gap that first-hand information about the financial results of the company and the objectives to be met in the year. existedAccedebetween the de forma fácil y rápida a los crew and contenidos más the maintenance importantes de la Intranet desde tu móvil y tablet and airport personnel who do not have company computers or mobiles. 2016 concluded with a pioneering event at Iberia: the first gathering involving the entire management structure (a total of 400 people), which brought together specialists and directors, Descarga Iberia Now, to have a global vision la nueva app para iOS o Android https://grupo.iberia.es/iberianow of the road travelled and analyse the next challenges At the same time, it has made it easier to access the information, which results in greater employee Additionally, on the occasion of the 70th anniversary of its satisfaction and involvement. first flight to Latin America, different in-house commemIn addition to the appreciation of the app by the orative activities were arranged, such as prize draws, workforce, which considers Iberia Now to be a competitions, historical videos or special editions of our considerable step in internal communication, the corporate newsletter. app has received the award for the Best Online Platform for efficient internal communication Thanks to this and other actions, the results of the management, given by the Internal Communication second edition of the Satisfaction Survey, carried out in Observatory, and won second prize for innovation in March 2016, reflected an improvement of 25 points in human resources at the 14th Expansión Awards. employees’ perceptions of internal communication. 81 9 Social Performance Social funds Solidarity fund Group life insurance These funds are used to meet social needs, such as scholThis insurance covers death and permanent disability. In the arships, grants for children with disabilities and chronically case of flight staff, it also covers the contingency of permaill children, welfare loans and expenses incurred through nent loss of licence. It is 60% financed by the company and sickness, to name a few. The fund is jointly financed in 40% by the employee. equal proportions by the company and employees, except in the case of cabin crew, who contribute 0.40% of their Other collaborations basic wage and the company contributes a fixed sum. Club Iberia Ground and flight This is a non-profit association that organises leisure and The company and each employee make monthly contrisports activities for company employees and their famibutions (50% each) through their salary to the pension lies, thereby fostering values such as the family, solidarity fund, handled by Mutualidad Montepío Loreto, set up as and teamwork. The Club Iberia budget is funded mainly a private pension and welfare institution in 1970 by the by membership fees and an annual contribution from the workers in the aviation sector. This fund covers disability company, which also provides premises for the Club’s offices and retirement benefits. In the case of flight staff, it also and facilitates internal communication for all employees via covers long duration temporary disability and death the intranet. . 82 9.3 Occupational health and safety Iberia has an organisation which deals with and handles occupational accidents, occupational hazard prevention. It has the necessary human resources, facilities, equipment and financial resources, partly owned and partly through arrangements with external companies, entities and specialists. The Prevention Plan is the tool that eases integration of prevention in the company and establishes the necessary procedures to perform preventive activities and include prevention aspects in the different management areas. gation for all accidents to be reported by contractors, and thus there are no joint statistics available for the workplaces Another important function is advising the three types of where Iberia is the titular entrepreneur. Health and Safety Committees: Inter-workplace committee, Workplace committees, Flight workplace committee, which At Iberia, all job positions have the required risk assessment is special as this workplace is unique. Members of Iberia’s and the workers are given training on and informed about Prevention Service sit on all these committees. the risks as well as the applicable preventive measures. In all the assessments, control actions are included so that Iberia has an internal regulation, “SH-203. Coordination of no employee is subject to risks classified as “significant” Business Activities”, through which it meets all the oblior “intolerable” in accordance with our Prevention Plan. gations arising out of the application of both Article 24 of Furthermore, and in accordance with the provisions of the the Occupational Hazard Prevention Act and Royal Decree Prevention Services Regulation, the risk assessments iden171/2004, implementing it. As regards work-related tify those tasks that require the presence of a “preventive accidents and in accordance with the business obligations resource” (there are 14 tasks of this type, all of which are contained in the aforementioned regulations, contractors related to aircraft maintenance). are obliged to report the accidents that happen as a result of the expected risks between companies, as well as to Employees who have suffered accidents receive assistance carry out the corresponding investigation. Depending on in recovery, support and advice from the Aviation Medical the conclusions of the investigation into the accident, any and Assistance area, which applies the appropriate treatadditional preventive measures required are adopted. The ments and rehabilitation system for the injuries suffered by current version of the regulation does not include the oblieach employee GRI 9.3 Content Index [G4-LA5 / G4-LA6 / G4-LA7 / G4-LA8] 83 9 Social Performance No. of occupational health and safety committees 19 committees + 1 Inter-workplace committee 88; 69 DP with committee + 13DP without committee No. of prevention delegates + 6 DP inter-workplace % of workers represented on committees 100% % absenteeism rate due to occupational accidents 0.78% Total Iberia; 0.91% Ground and 0.39% Flight % accident rate compared to 2014 21.8% Economic sanctions for breach of prevention laws 4 Men Women Number of days lost due to occupational accidents or 27,143 14,022 commuting accidents Number of fatal accidents 0 0 Number of serious accidents 1 0 Number of minor accidents 883 328 Occupational Hazard Prevention Training The main objectives of employee training on occupational hazard prevention are those related with:: Knowledge of the basic principles, including laws and regulations in order to be able to identify risk factors related to their work. Understanding the risks of their job, and the source, causes and possible effects on health of those risks should they occur. Knowledge of the preventive measures that, when applied to the job, allow the risks to be controlled. Occupational Hazard Prevention Training 2015 Number of courses 272 Number of students 6,811 Hours of OHP training per employee 2,27 84 9.4 Personal development Talent pool Iberia is aware of the need to seamlessly combine the This programme seeks to strengthen and identify new employees’ skills and their professional aspirations with the talents inside the company that meet the following characcompany’s strategy and its demand for talent. To this end, teristics: several actions are in place, which are summarised below. Total mobility (functional and geographical). High performance and considerable learning capacity. Specialists Interested in assuming more responsibility. The Specialists Project is part of the Iberia’s objecHigh level of English and IT skills. tives of modernising the organisational structure and promoting meritocracy. Commitment to the company’s project. With this purpose, key positions have been identified High energy and initiative; proactive. which, although they are not directly in charge of a team, are a point of reference in the organisation. People skills. They are the most important positions in each In exchange, we offer each participant a personal develarea, together with those of management, and the opment plan, with the support of a development expert, objective upon identifying them is to recognise their agreed with their line manager and consisting of: contribution to the company’s strategic objectives through individual efforts. Interview to assess potential. Participation in projects. Speaking at management committee meetings. Participation in task forces and working groups. Employee profile Feedback sessions. This is a decalogue of what Iberia expects from its employees, a model of conduct and accountability, which Preferential participation in conferences and round makes the company stand out in a difficult and competitable discussions led by Iberia. tive environment. Opportunity to access the mentoring programme. It is progressively being included in all the employee develEach member of the Management Committee acts as a opment processes and all the employees will be measured sponsor for the programme, contributing to the progress in accordance with its principles. of the participants through monitoring their development Employee profiles have begun to be a reference in plans, enabling their participation in different projects and job descriptions, searches for talent, entertainment ensuring exposure to the highest levels of the organisations. programmes, recognition systems, etc. The plan lasts 12 months. This programme seeks to strengthen and identify new talents inside the company GRI 9.4 Content Index [G4-LA9 / G4-LA10 / G4-LA11] 85 9 Social Performance In the case of Iberia, Graduate Experience management of succession The company has put in place Iberia Graduate begins with the Performance Experience, a project which transforms its scholarship policy with the goal of attracting young talent Assessment Process, which and collaborating with academic institutions to concluded at the end of March ease access to the job market by recent university graduates. 2016 and made it possible to structure an available group The graduates have to contribute to the results of the company’s cross-cutting projects, but above of successors for the key all these programmes have to include a training leadership roles plan for young graduates that contribute to their development being their first professional experience and reinforce brand values throughout the process. Training Through training Iberia guarantees the qualification of all Succession planning those who work in the different operating scenarios, in order Planning for the succession supports the company’s to respond to sector requirements and quality and safety Strategic Plan, helps to outline the vision for the future, targets set by the company and applicable regulation. minimises leadership gaps for critical positions and provides opportunities so that the best talents develop the necessary In this regard, a large investment is made in training and skills for future roles. development every year, led by the People Department, which coordinates and designs the company’s joint training From that point, personal development plans were designed plan. This plan covers technical/regulated training schemes for those who were identified as future successors, due to and skills development training required by the different their ability to assume greater responsibility in terms of businesses, perfectly aligned with aviation requirements scale and/or scope. and the strategic business and company objectives. 86 In view of the circumstances of air transport, highly regulated and constantly adapting to new procedures and customers’ needs, Iberia is clearly committed to ensuring that its employees have the necessary expertise. This requires a great deal of training in operations, both for new employees and ongoing training (above all, skills, licences and certificates in compliance with laws, regulations and requirements of the sector). ENGAGEMENT CULTURAL CHANGE STRATEGIC LEVER Leadership School Language School Summer School Project Management School Specific Career Training Centre Centre Operations Training Entertainment Airports In-flight Maintenance Crew Handling Service TECHNICAL TRAINING Iberia makes a clear commitment so that the company’s employees have the necessary expertise 87 9 Social Performance The principles of the training model in Iberia are: Be a strategic lever of the company: Iberia culture and values. Alignment with the business: improvement of individual and company’s performance. Professional development: Individual Training plans. As a result of the high level of specialisation and the specific nature of the technical know-how, a large part of the training is designed and given by internal instructors, selected from specialised employees in each functional and business area. Iberia is very proud of the high level of its internal training staff. Management Courses and captain training The important work done Iberia has a pilot training process in place to meet the company’s need to fill captain positions. at the technical instruction centres is also worthy of There are three phases The first phase, Management courses, consists of training the pilot in different topics special mention. related to laws, regulations and disciplines that they do not usually put into practice as pilots. The results of training given in 2015 are: In the second and third phases they are trained in the techTraining data nical aspect using a flight simulator and flight training. These courses finalise the process, after the online verifica9,230 Number of courses tion that one of our testers authorises. (for 902 different programmes) After passing all of these tests, the pilot can fly in command Men Women with the standard crew. Number of students 88,873 44,747 School of inhouse trainers Hours Monitor 45,907 18,475 Hours/student 181,294 330,977 In order to be able to meet the needs of the business as regards the demand for new trainers, during 2016 there were three trainer career recruitment procedures. As a result Average no. hours per job category of this process, a total of 85 new trainers were selected and Superior Group Managers and Technicians 27.6 received 1,360 hours of training. In addition, skill acquisition continued to be fostered through workshops such as Pilots 60.1 the session on high-impact presentations and the course on CabinCrew 14.0 managing conflicts. Technicians / Specialists 37.1 One innovation was recruiting and training in-house trainers who in turn teach the new trainers teaching techAdministrative / SupportServices 32.5 niques and skills. 88 Maintenance Instruction Centre (CIM) by EU_OPS, AESA and all applicable regulations nationally and internationally. The purpose of this centre is to develop and provide the necessary technical training, both basic and refresher, in Training plans in certain area the Technical Department, covering the maintenance and engineering areas of the company. It provides training on Senior Programme People engines, aircraft line maintenance, aircraft components and Designed with the goal of obtaining a strategic, global and the skills required to comply with applicable regulations practical vision of the human resources function. (EASA 147 and EASA 145), in addition to other activities. Methodology: series of workshops coordinated Operations Instruction Centre and designed for top-level directors and managers. Each of these coordinators in responsible for preparing The goal is to train the technical crew (captains and co-pithe content of their workshops, as well as to propose lots) and maintain their qualifications to be able to reach external speakers that they will include and maintain the high level of expertise required by their duties. The workshops are held on Fridays (one per month), in a full day format and with 25 participants per session. Due to this high level of professionalism of its employees, Iberia has the corresponding qualifications to be able to It is estimated there were a total of 1,750 hours of training provide much of the technical training given at this Instrucin 2016/2017. tion Centre, complying with all the requirements stipulated 89 9 Social Performance Summer School Scholarship agreements The fifth edition took place between 4 July and 25 August, Iberia is constantly seeking talent, both internally and with a total of 29 activities carried out and 560 particiexternally, as talent is a critical factor for guaranteeing the pants. company’s competitiveness. Last year, as a new feature, it had different formats depending on the target audience: Attracting talent for Men Women management posts General Summer School 20 activities No. of employees 27 23 People Summer School 7 activities who joined Iberia in 2015 Trainers Summer School 2 activities Scholarships and internships In 2016, the number of Iberia has agreements with various national and interexternal recruitment national universities and training schools. Similarly, it processes doubled compared collaborates with the government and academic instito the previous year tutions on implementing the education system, offering internships to students and to Vocational Education and university graduates, from both Spain and abroad. The scholarship programme has a dual goal: give young people their first contact with the labour market and get their contribution to the company’s projects The programme also helps us to detect young professionals with potential and talent for the future of our sector. Scholarship agreements Educational Cooperation Students 7 Vocational Education Students 47 Post-graduate scholarships for graduates 23 Internship Programme Contractual novation to employees 13 Interns hired on work practice 6 People on work practice and relief contracts 5 that have been consolidated 90 As regards internal selection, the company has estabIn 2016, 237 jobs were posted and managed, most of which lished a series of protocols and skills profiles to detect the were opportunities for internal mobility or development, professionals with the greatest potential. Once detected, amongst which the following stood out: they are supported by personalised training programmes, continuous assessment and professional development and 15 management jobs, including directors, managers succession plans, where talent is directed towards the field and heads. of specialisation or management. These are also included 14 senior positions. in leadership development programmes to enable the company to have on board professionals who can apply 23 specialist positions. their abilities to the circumstances required by the company’s businesses at any given time and ensure positions of 30 senior operating positions in the businesses. responsibility are taken over. 92 positions for agents or analysts Iberia also has a job posting policy, which is a key tool for supporting mobility and providing equal opportunity when 5 opportunities in the Production Department for internally filling vacancies within the company. Jobs and pilots: copilot instructors for 320 and 340, in-flight safety their profiles are posted every week, not only in Iberia but officials, linguistic skills assessors and CRM facilitators. also in the group, so that any employee who believes they meet the requirements of a post can submit an application In the Cabin Crew Division, a job posting was chief to be assessed by the recruitment services. flight attendants, as well as four external offers. Crew members to cope with the increased frequencies and new routes including, among others, In 2016 237 jobs were posted Shanghai and Tokyo. and managed 49 opportunities in the Group, secondments, Vueling, Avios, Air Lingus, etc. 91 9 Social Performance 9.5. Diversity and equal opportunity The company has a policy of hiring local staff, so that, apart from a few positions within the structure of some sales offices, which are held by people sent from Spain, the majority of the company’s employees are nationals of the countries in which Iberia operates as a multinational. Gender diversity Staff breakdown by classification and gender in 2016 Woman Men Total Diversity by job category Nº % Nº % Nº % Senior Management 1 5 14.3% 30 85.7% 35 0.3% Technicians and structure 375 46.4% 434 53.6% 809 6.7% General administrative team 2,915 69.9% 1,254 30.1% 4,169 34.7% Support services 412 9.6% 3,891 90.4% 4,303 35.8% Aircraft Maintenance Technician 29 1.4% 2,094 98.6% 2,123 17.7% Other (including local personnel abroad) 196 33.3% 393 66.7% 589 4.9% Total Ground (a) 3,932 32.7% 8,096 67.3% 12,028 100% Pilots 64 5.3% 1,145 94.7% 1,209 28.4% Cabin crew 2,164 71.0% 882 29.0% 3,046 71.6% Total Flight (b) 2,228 52.4% 2,027 47.6% 4,255 100% Total General (a+b) 6,160 37.8% 10,123 62.2% 16,283 100% 1 Senior management at Iberia LAE refers to the Management Committee and next level managers Staff age pyramid by gender: % women/men in each age group Women Men Total % women % men <30 201 760 961 21% 79% 30-50 4,444 6,394 10,838 41% 59% >50 1,515 2,969 4,484 34% 66% TOTAL 6,160 10,123 16,283 34% 66% 92 GRI 9.5 Content Index [G4-10 / G4-LA1 / G4-LA2 / G4-LA3 / G4-LA12 / G4-LA13 / G4-LA16 / G4-HR3] With regard to the organisational structure, the breakdown of men and women in management positions is the following: Women Men Total Chairperson 1 1 Management Committee 1 7 8 Director 5 26 31 Manager 16 39 55 Head 43 65 108 Supervisor 36 71 107 Specialist 21 21 42 Other outside cc 2 2 TOTAL 124 230 354 The salaries of employees covered by collective agreements are established according to their professional rank, length of service and position. The salaries of employees not covered by collective agreements (management, senior staff) are negotiated between the company and the employee, following criteria of specialisation, experience, duties, etc., with no discrimination on grounds of sex, race or any other criteria. % Average difference men/women Manager 3.35% Head -5.80% Supervisor -1.52% 93 9 Social Performance Combatting discrimination and harassment The Code of Conduct specifies that Iberia undertakes to continue its policy of action based on the development and running of all selection processes with no discrimination on grounds of race, origin, religion, gender, political or union ideas, sex, marital status, age or disability. Iberia also understands that the careers of its Work-life balance policies employees are closely linked Iberia applies reduced working hours for legal guardians to their integral personal to promote childbirth and protect maternity, paternity development. and care of the elderly, for which 2,029 employees signed up in 2016. The company takes into account the risks that employee’s work may entail for pregnancy and breastfeeding, especially within flight crews, permitting different possibilities for reducing working hours, temporary suspensions of contract and the processing of benefits, all For this reason it promotes employee training and fosters regulated by collective agreements. an environment in which equal opportunity is effective and guarantees non-discrimination. More specifically, the cabin crew and pilots collective Number of employees signed up for Reduced Working agreements state the penalisation of “any conduct or Hours for Legal Guardians in 2016 behaviour at work that violates the respect of a person’s privacy and dignity through physical or verbal offence, Women Men Total including those of a sexual nature. If such conduct or behaviour occurs from a position of hierarchical superiGround 626 349 975 ority, this will be considered an aggravating circumstance.” Flight 839 215 1.054 The Ground collective agreement lists as very serious Cabin crew 822 135 957 misconduct “sexual harassment or sexual, verbal or physical aggression directed against the dignity or privacy of Pilots 17 80 97 persons” and “psychological harassment”. During the year 4 complaints of psychological harassment were dealt with following the protocol in place in the company for this type of complaint. In 2016 Iberia received no claims for discrimination The company has published protocols for action in case of complaints for psychological harassment and sexual on grounds of age, race, harassment or on the grounds of gender, to guarantee the religion or sex. correct handling of complaints, the corresponding investigations and the appropriate decisions. 94 Iberia has different regulations governing Coordination of 9.6 Supplier labour practices Business Activities, including the internal regulation SH-203 on Safety and Hygiene. In Iberia there are workplaces where different companies work together and it is therefore necessary to find an appropriate balance between the health and safety of the employees and In 2016, training was given flexibility in applying occupational hazard prevention plans. In this situation, a key element for managing prevention on the GICO application programmes is coordination of business activities. to the people involved in the At Iberia coordination of occupational hazard prevention process in coordination guarantees that the following goals are met: with other companies Correct application of the working methods by the companies operating in the workplace. The rule requires both the company and the firms providing services to Iberia to exchange information. A clause Control of interaction between the different activities informing the tenderer that GICO will be used to perform performed at the workplace. coordination of business activities and a data collection sheet used that it must fill in before the activity begins Adaptation of prevention measures to the hazards in have been included in the contracts made. These two docuthe workplace that could affect the employees of the ments will facilitate the exchange of information about different companies operating there. any occupational hazards that may arise, both for the Iberia employees and for those of the contractor’s company, In 2016, coordination with companies that provide services during the provision of the services. to the company’s various businesses was carried out through the GICO application. In addition, this is in accordance with In order to adapt to new needs and improve compliance, in the objective set in 2015 for all coordination to be carried 2016 temporary instructions that update this regulation out using this system. were published on the Occupational Prevention Portal. GRI 9.6 Content Index [G4-LA14 / G4-LA15 / G4-HR10] 95 10 Human rights 2001 In collaboration with the NGO Mano a Mano, Iberia sent urgent aid to those affected by the disasters in El Salvador caused by Hurricane Mitch 96 Materiality Main stakeholders for which human rights are material: Shareholders or investors NGOs and social organisations Society in general Main material aspects in order of importance: Agreements and contracts containing human rights clauses and employee training in this area Discrimination incidents and actions taken GRI Content Index [G4-DMA] 97 10 Human rights Iberia is committed to defending and respecting human rights. The Code of Conduct of the Iberia Group explicitly states this commitment to respecting and protecting the human rights and public freedoms recognised in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and major international agreements. This allows the company to guarantee that the principles set out in these agreements are present in all of its policies. In 2016 Iberia did not receive any human rights claims (discrimination, freedom of association, child labour, forced labour, etc.) through any of the available channels. 10.1 The United Nations Global Compact The United Nations Global Compact arose from the acknowledgement of economic players as drivers of market development and growth globally. The initiative, which companies, unions and organisations of civil society may freely join, seeks to convert Corporate Social Responsibility into the cross axis for tackling globalisation challenges. With this goal in mind, the signees must integrate the Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact into their strategies and operations. Iberia is committed to the Ten Principles and the 17 Sustainable Development Goals of the United Nations By joining the Global Compact Iberia voluntarily accepts the commitment to incorporate the Ten Principles in its everyday activities and report to society, publicly and transparently, on the progress it makes in their implementation, through progress reports. time disseminate social responsibility and work to achieve a Iberia is part, together with another 11 companies from the sustainable, competitive tourism sector. tourism sector, of the working group of the Spanish Global Compact Network “Responsible tourism, a commitment The tourism sector, which contributes to the economic shared by all”, which aims to share successful experiences growth and the development of many societies, is therefore in social and environmental sustainability and at the same a key sector for achieving the 17 SDG. 98 GRI 10.1 Content Index [G4-15 / G4-HR3 / G4-HR8 / G4-HR10 / G4-HR12] Localization in Area Principle this report Principle 1. Businesses should support and respect the protection of Section 10 internationally proclaimed human rights. Human Rights Principle 2. Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses Section 10 Principle 3. Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the Section 9 effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Principle 4. The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. Section 10 Labour Principle 5. The effective abolition of child labour. Section 10 Principle 6. The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Section 9 Principle 7. Businesses should support a precautionary approach to Section 8 environmental challenges. Principle 8. Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental Environment Section 8 responsibility. Principle 9. Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally Section 8 friendly technologies. Principle 10. Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, Anti-corruption Section 11 including extortion and bribery. 99 10 Human rights 10.2 Human rights 10.3 Responsible training procurement The social responsibility to respect human rights extends Management of procurement and outsourcing of services to all companies and Iberia is no exception. For this reason, for IAG GBS, which is aligned with Iberia’s goals, is regulated the group’s Code of Conduct establishes respect for human by internal procedures and guided by the following general rights and public freedoms recognised in the Universal principles: Declaration of Human Rights. 1 Optimisation of costs Consequently, directors, managers and employees must second this commitment within their duties, ensuring 2 Internal customer satisfaction compliance of that obligation in the performance of all their professional activities. 3 Compliance with the law In 2016, 1,812 Iberia employees and directors, selected 4 Work ethically, respecting and protecting all according to their duties and responsibilities, took online cultures courses on this code, lasting one hour. 5 Transparency and confidentiality The course includes the commitment to respect the text of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and an expla6 Innovation and development of creative solutions nation of the international standards that Iberia joined: the that provide value United Nations Global Compact; the International Labour Organisation Fundamental Conventions and the Millennium 7 Caution and risk management Development Goals. 100 GRI 10.2 Content Index [G4-HR2 / G4-HR3 / G4-HR7 / G4-HR8 / G4-HR10 / G4-HR12] 10.3 [G4-EN32 / G4-EN33 / G4-HR1 / G4-HR3 / G4-HR4 / G4-HR5 / G4-HR6 / G4-HR8 / G4-HR9 / G4-HR10 / G4-HR11 / G4-HR12 / G4-SO9 / G4-SO10] IAG GBS Procurement has created a responsible procurement Labour commitment monitoring team for the supply chain of the different group companies. Environmental commitment UN Global Compact Regulatory compliance IAG GBS undertakes to supply Compliance with these clauses is assessed with adequate goods and services obtained from frequency according to the monitoring information, the level of risk to the company’s reputation and criticality for suppliers who demonstrate ethical the value chain. principles in the way they run The clauses on the United Nations Global Compact require their business and collaborates all suppliers awarded the service to: with them on quality, safety, Support and respect the protection of internationally environmental responsibility and proclaimed human rights in their respective spheres of human rights regulations. influence. Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Uphold the freedoms and rights of their It also builds relations with suppliers committed to employees in the labour area. improving the levels of the supply chain. The tender process includes a survey that assesses aspects Support the effective abolition of child labour. of Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) and labour policies and regulation, reviewed by the outsourcing area. IAG Support a precautionary approach to environmental GBS also maintains a close relationship with Sedex, a not challenges and encourage the development and for profit membership organisation dedicated to driving diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. improvements in responsible and ethical business practices Undertake any necessary initiatives to promote in global supply chains. The outsourcing process therefore greater environmental responsibility. includes clauses related to: Confidentiality IAG GBS continued progressing in health and safety and the environment in 2016 by carrying out audits and working Industrial Property with suppliers to be leaders in safety through training and local programmes. Data protection 101 11 Society 1986 At Envera’s special employment centres, work involving handling, managing documentation and laundry is carried out for Iberia 102 Materiality Principal stakeholders for which aspects regarding society are material: NGOs and social organisations Shareholders and investors Employees Principal material aspects in order of importance: Measures taken to fight corruption Centres with development programmes for the local community GRI Content Index [G4-DMA] 103 11 Society Iberia is committed to the Sustainable Development Goals This section is a compilation of the action taken in 2016. In (SDG) approved by the United Nations in 2015 and aims to that period, Iberia detected no significant negative impacts develop social action that contributes directly or indirectly on the local communities. to achieving them, by contributing funds and resources to The details of any significant fines (valued by IAG as those solidarity projects and conducting ongoing assessment of exceeding 20,000 US dollars) can be consulted in the the social contributions to bring the company’s social action Corporate Responsibility sections of the IAG Annual Report. into line with the established strategy. 104 11.1 Key social development actions Iberia supports projects and associations that are in line Envera with Corporate Social Responsibility principles. In 2016, it collaborated in different initiatives. The Envera Foundation, formerly known as APMIB, was set up in 1977 by Iberia employees with children with special needs. It focuses on the protection and social and Mano a mano professional integration of people with physical, mental or This NGO was founded in 1994 by sensory disabilities. Its mission is to integrate these people Iberia employees to make use of into society and the workforce through comprehensive care the free space in the cargo holds of and assistance throughout their lifetime. Iberia flights to send humanitarian aid to countries hit by natural disasters or wars. It delivers the aid without middlemen, i.e. “hand to hand” (“Mano a Mano” in This foundation assists 1,500 Spanish). Its commitment to helping the less fortunate who are at risk also leads this NGO to arrange flights to people with functional diversity bring children and their families to Spain. Once in Spain, and provides 330 care service they are provided with specialist medical attention and places. Its special employment accommodation. centres offer employment to 468 people with disabilities Among the services it provides, the foundation offers tutelage, social assistance and educational support to people with disabilities who so choose or who have been orphaned or left homeless. At the same time, Envera contributes to their development and provides them with the opportunity to carry out work that is appropriate to their abilities. In 2016, projects were developed in countries such as Argentina, Cuba, Ecuador, Colombia, Equatorial Guinea, Nicaragua, Peru, Venezuela and Haiti, as well as Spain, where Iberia’s cooperation focused on charity canteens, schools and hospitals. Iberia donates free plane tickets and cargo space to the NGO and provides the areas In 2016, Iberia organised a charity concert with Plácido and supplies they need for Domingo in favour of Envera at the National Auditorium and a charity auction of pictures owned by Iberia, the proceeds their activities of which were donated in full to Envera. GRI 11.1 Content Index [G4-15 / G4-SO1 / G4-SO2 / G4-SO11] 105 11 Society Earthquake in Ecuador Spanish National Transplant Organisation Following the earthquake which occurred on the coast of Ecuador on 16 April 2016, Iberia began Iberia is an active supporter of the work of the National working in coordination with the Ecuadorian Transplant Organisation (ONT), by providing help to make Embassy in Spain and in conjunction with the NGO transporting organs to their destination quicker and easier. Mano a Mano, Fundación Seur and Fundación This helps to ensure the organ’s survival and the viability of Sepla-Ayuda, to convey humanitarian aid to those the transplant. affected. The donations of materials were carried out mainly by Ecuadorian platforms and associations through the Ecuadorian consulates, as well as the International Police Association in Barcelona, El Corte Inglés, Cofares and different religious congregations. More than 27 tonnes in humanitarian aid to Ecuador In the over two months that the campaign lasted, over 110 pallets were sent with a weight of more than 27 tonnes. The cargo sent consisted of medical and rescue equipment, non-perishable foods, towels, The company’s efforts in this area were recognised by the medication, healthcare products, healing materials, ONT in 2014. The company continued its efforts in 2016 orthopaedic materials, nappies and other hygiene and collaborated with all those involved in air traffic to help products, in addition to material to service camps: organs for transplants to reach their destination home products, electric generators, fold-up beds, torches, etc. Make a Wish The Make a Wish organisation devotes itself to granting the wishes of children suffering from serious illnesses, thus enriching their lives through unique, unforgettable experiences. In doing so, it enables young people to overcome negative emotions, such as fear, anguish and loneliness, transforming them into vitality, energy and an eagerness to fight For this process, Iberia made the holds of its aircraft for flights to Ecuador entirely available and Mano a Iberia has been collaborating with Mano collaborated by handling all the procedures the organisation’s mission since required to send the cargo. The Secretary for Risk Management of the Ecuadorian government was 2001 as the official carrier and the body in charge of organising the distribution and contributes to making the dreams delivery of the material. of these children come true. 106 Unicef Iberia, in conjunction with Amadeus, renewed the collaboration agreement with Unicef’s Spanish Committee, which was signed Since the start of the agreement in 2013. Its main aim is to raise funds to support the 100% Let’s between Amadeus, Iberia and Unicef Vaccinate Every Child initiative, which provides solutions to Spanish Committee, over 710,000 fight illnesses such as measles, polio and whooping cough. euros have been raised, which will As part of the agreement, the Amadeus platforms makes it improve the situation of numerous possible for Iberia.com customers to donate from 3 to 20 euros through just one click when buying a plane ticket on boys and girls around the world the Iberia web page. 107 11 Society Fundación Integra Save the Children In 2016, Iberia joined the board of trustees of Fundación Iberia has joined Save the Children in its Integra to support women who are the victims of genderproject to create peaceful environments based violence and foster the integration into employment at schools in Guatemala. To help this of this vulnerable group. foundation to raise funds for the initiative, Iberia launched a donation campaign among its customers, with the intention On the International Day for the Elimination of Violence of raising awareness and making this project, which is literally Against Women, held on 25 November, Iberia put in place a saving the lives of children, known series of awareness-raising actions among the employees of the company and its customers As part of the initiative involving companies fighting for a society free from gender-based violence, Iberia will integrate into its workforce women who have been victims of gender-based violence, supported by the Fundación Integra 108 Juegaterapia Iberia collaborates with the Fundación Juegaterapia (play therapy foundation) to support the fight against childhood cancer. As part of the celebration of the 70th anniversary of our flights to Latin America, in September 2016 toys designed by this foundation were given to the children fighting cancer at the Garrahan Hospital in Buenos Aires. Since December 2016, this charitable product has been included in the products sold on board our intercontinental flights; the proceeds from the product go entirely towards the fight against childhood cancer 109 11 Society 11.2 Sustainable Development Goals As part of its commitment to society, Iberia collaborates with different social action organisations to achieve the Sustainable Development Goals (SDG) approved by the UN in 2015 The targets and the projects Iberia is involved in are explained below. Holding of a Christmas charity Collaboration with Fundación 1. market at the Iberia facilities to raise Juegaterapia in its efforts to raise funds funds for Mano a Mano projects. for research into childhood cancer. Charitable collection of food and Collaboration with Mano a Mano toys at the Iberia facilities for the in its projects for donations to hospiChristmas campaign of Fundación tals and health centres, mainly in No Poverty Toda Ayuda. Latin America, Africa and Spain. Target: Collaboration between Iberia and the Spanish National Transplant Organisation End poverty in all its forms (Organización Nacional de Trasplantes) 3. everywhere. Projects: 4. Conveyance of humanitarian aid for different Mano a Mano projects in charity Good health and well-being canteens, mainly in Latin America, Africa and Spain. Target: Holding of a Christmas charity Ensure healthy lives and promote Quality education market at the Iberia facilities to raise well-being for all at all ages. Target: funds for Mano a Mano projects. Projects: Ensure inclusive and equitable Charitable collection of food and toys Collaboration with Mano a Mano quality education and promote lifeat the Iberia facilities for the Christmas and Fundación Aladina, through the long learning opportunities for all. campaign of Fundación Toda Ayuda. donation of plane tickets to transport ill Collaboration with the Ecuadorian children with limited resources to receive Projects: medical treatment in our country. Embassy, Mano a Mano and Fundación Collaboration with the educaSeur to convey humanitarian aid to the Micro-donations programme tional projects from Mano a Mano, organised by Iberia and Amadeus principally in countries in Latin region affected by the earthquake which through which Iberia customers can America and Africa. occurred in April 2016. Iberia donated make donations to Unicef for its child Collaboration with the Envera tableware from its on-board service to this vaccination projects. From the start of group. project. the agreement to the end of 2016, more than 700,000 euros had been raised. Transporting of personal computers, in collaboration with 2. Sponsorship of Fundación Mujeres Amadeus, for educational and social por África. projects in Latin America and Africa. Collaboration with Make a Wish Collaboration agreement with in its social action activities. Iberia Segib to facilitate the international provides the transport for the serimobility of students, teachers and Zero hunger ously ill children that the foundation researchers. takes to different locations to enable Target: them to fulfil their dreams and have Sponsorship agreement with the End hunger, achieve food security an unforgettable experience. Iberia, Fundación Mujeres por África. and improved nutrition and promote as the official carrier, thus contributes Sponsorship of the Carolina Founsustainable agriculture. to enabling the children to manage to dation. overcome negative emotions. Projects: Collaboration with Mano a Mano Conveyance of humanitarian aid Collaboration with the Fundación in organising a multi-cultural children’s for different Mano a Mano projects Lucha contra el Sida. camp, Aquí Cabemos Todos (We all fit in charity canteens, mainly in Latin in), in Los Navalmorales, Toledo. America, Africa and Spain. 110 Índice de Contenido GRI 11.2 [G4-15] In the Iberia facilities in La Muñoza, 5. 8. each year more than 200,000 m3 of water is managed; after use in the various productive processes and in bathrooms, it becomes industrial and urban wastewater, respectively. Both Gender equality types are treated at the wastewater Decent work Target: facilities Iberia has on its premises (two and economic growth industrial and one biological facility) to Achieve gender equality and return the water to its place of origin Target: empower all women and girls. once treated. Promote sustained, inclusive and sustainable economic growth, full and Projects: productive employment and decent Signing of the Companies for work for all. 7. a Society Free from Gender-Based Projects: Violence initiative, from the Spanish Ministry of Health and Social Affairs. Scholarship and internship programme in collaboration with Collaboration with Mano a Mano universities and training schools. to create a sewing and hairdressing Participation in the Generation workshop for 90 girls at the El Affordable and job project from McKinsey. Nooman orphanage. clean energy Sponsorship of the Mujeres por África. Target: 9. Collaboration with Fundación Ensure access to affordable, reliIntegra to integrate into the employable, sustainable and modern energy ment world women who have been for all. victims of gender-based violence Projects: and raising awareness regarding this Since 2013, Iberia has been group. renewing its fleet, incorporating Industry, innovation aircraft that consume less fuel. and infrastructure 6. The Fuel Efficiency Support Target: Group studies initiatives to operate Build resilient infrastructure, aircraft efficiently. promote inclusive and sustainable Iberia is participating with AENA industrialization and foster innovaand the company AlgaEnergy in a tion. Clean water project to produce biofuel based on and sanitation micro-algae, which are grown at a Projects: technological experimentation plant Since 2013, Iberia has been Target: built next to ¬Madrid-Barajas airport. renewing its fleet, incorporating Ensure availability and sustainaircraft that consume less fuel. able management of water and The Fuel Efficiency Support Group sanitation for all. studies initiatives to operate aircraft Projects: efficiently. Collaboration with the Ecuadorian Embassy, Mano a Mano and Fundación Seur for the conveyance of water treatment units for safe water for those affected by the earthquake in Ecuador in April 2016. 111 11 Society Iberia is participating with AENA 11. 13. and the company AlgaEnergy in a project to produce biofuel based on micro-algae, which are grown at a technological experimentation plant built next to Madrid-Barajas airport. In 2014, Iberia was a pioneer Sustainable cities and Climate action through its introduction of the communities Target: Electronic Flight Bag, devices which Target: Take urgent action to combat replace documentation on paper for Make cities and human settleclimate change and its impacts. pilots. They help to reduce weight, ments inclusive, safe, resilient and save fuel, increase efficiency and Projects: reduce CO2 emissions. sustainable. Iberia is the first Spanish airline Iberia aircraft are painted using Projects: and the third European airline to an eco-friendly painting system, Initiatives to reduce the noise collaborate in the Iagos project, which allows water to be saved and levels in landings in operating the which is part of the European reduces the weight of the aircraft, aircraft. Union’s Strategy on Research thus leading to less fuel consumption. Infrastructures. It consists of equipping aircraft that fly long-haul 12. routes with scientific instruments to assess the quality of the atmos10. phere at certain altitudes around the world. As part of the strategy to combat Responsible production climate change, Iberia offers inforand consumption mation to customers and employees Reduced inequalities about the carbon footprint of their Target: Target: trips, through the CO2 calculator Ensure sustainable consumption available at Iberia.com and the corpoReduce inequality within and and production patterns. rate website. among countries. Projects: Projects: Since 2013, Iberia has been 14. Collaboration with Envera, which renewing its fleet, incorporating works towards integrating people aircraft that consume less fuel. with disabilities into society and into The Fuel Efficiency Support work throughout all the stages of Group studies initiatives to operate their lives. aircraft efficiently. Collaboration with Mano a Mano Life below water Iberia is participating with AENA in its health, equality and education Target: and the company AlgaEnergy in a projects in Latin America, Africa and project to produce biofuel based on Conserve and sustainably use the Spain. micro-algae, which are grown at a oceans, seas and marine resources for Collaboration with Fundación technological experimentation plant sustainable development. Integra to integrate women who built next to Madrid-Barajas airport. have been victims of gender-based Iberia is participating in the Projects: violence into work and raise aware“life+zero cabin waste” project with Transporting animals in danger of ness about this group. the goal of reducing and salvaging extinction or which after recovering . the waste from the aircraft catering -travel in our aircraft to be returned service. to their ecosystems. 112 15. Life on land 17. Partnerships for the goals Target: Target: Protect, restore and promote Strengthen the means of implesustainable use of terrestrial ecosysmentation and revitalize the global tems, sustainably manage forests, partnership for sustainable developcombat desertification, and halt and ment. reverse land degradation and halt biodiversity loss. Projects: Collaboration with the Fundación Projects: Seres. Transporting animals in danger of Collaboration agreements with extinction or which after recovering different entities that promote child travel in our aircraft to be returned to health, children’s rights, the struggle their ecosystems. for the integration into society and into work of groups at risk of exclusion and the fight against poverty 16. Commitment to the principles of the Global Compact and participation in the “Sustainable Tourism, a commitment shared by all” working group. Peace, justice and strong institutions Target: Promote peaceful and inclusive societies for sustainable development, provide access to justice for all and build effective, accountable and inclusive institutions at all levels. Projects: Crime prevention programme. Anti-corruption standard. Regulatory compliance committees. Cyber-security project. 113 11 Society Iberia has an anti-corruption standard setting out the 11.3 Anti-Corruption Policy company’s policy, with a clear commitment to ensuring ethical behaviour and compliance with the law by its Iberia’s anti-corruption and anti-bribery measures are employees and related third parties. It thus supplements included within its Crime Prevention Programme. the other related regulations, including the regulations The programme is a set of measures intended to prevent, on conduct with civil servants or the corporate hospitality detect and react to possible offences covered by the Spanish policy. Penal Code. In addition, it is a commitment to permanent This standard regulates conduct both in general and in surveillance and penalising of unethical conduct and to specific situations, such as possible conflicts of interest, the maintaining effective mechanisms for communication and prohibition regarding political activities and appropriate awareness on the part of all employees to encourage a management of donations. preventive culture. The highest risk indicators, of the countries where Iberia Iberia manages this risk through the programme, the operates, in Africa and Latin America, thus leading to an general structure of which is designed, in accordance with increase in preventive controls and activities aimed at best practices and applicable international laws, around the reducing the risk in those regions. following four pillars:: Existence of clear policies and adequate risk management Communication and awareness processes for all The anti-corruption programme and employees its goals are assessed and planned Continuous monitoring of high-risk processes for all of IAG in the Compliance Committees Specific controls in relations with third parties 114 GRI 11.3 Content Index [G4-SO1 / G4-SO2 / G4-SO3 / G4-SO4 / G4-SO5 / G4-SO11] he anti-corruption programme and its goals are assessed and planned for all of IAG in the Compliance Committees, 11.4 Public policies in which Iberia and the other Group companies participate, According to the Iberia Group’s anti-corruption regulations, so that it covers the activity throughout the network. The all activity performed within the group must strictly respect Compliance Committees supervise the anti-corruption the guidelines established in the applicable laws and reguprogramme. lations, both external and internal (Iberia and IAG), to avoid The Compliance Regulations lay down the obligation for any potential criminal offences related with that activity all employees to be familiar with internal regulations and (such as corruption between individuals, bribery, alteraexternal laws and to ensure compliance. To this end, and to tion of prices in competitive tendering and public auctions, facilitate access to the information, all the regulations are money laundering, corruption in international commercial published and made available to all employees following transactions, etc.) and/or unethical conduct that is not approval by Iberia’s bodies. acceptable for the company. In general, it is strictly forbidden within the Iberia Group to make any kind of donation in cash or in kind to political Iberia publishes the Compliance parties or associations. Nor may the cost of their purchases Regulations so that they are known of goods, work or services or any other expenses generated and observed by everyone by their activity be covered, in full or in part. The constraints established in current legislation regarding incompatibilities of senior officers are scrupulously In addition to the traditional channel for communication of respected in the hiring of employees and executives. regulations, the anti-corruption policies and procedures are explained in the anti-corruption training given, according to criteria and ratings of the employees’ positions and duties. In 2016, the company did not receive any claims or fines for any cases of corruption in the performance of its activities. Due diligence In order to comply with the company’s anti-corruption policy and internal Compliance Regulations, Iberia regularly carries out due diligence processes (finding and analysing information) on third parties linked to it. In particular, the processes check the suitability of tenderers for contracts and commercial brokers, according to the different criteria established. Those processes assess the transparency, lawfulness and efforts of third parties in fighting corruption and contracting with those third parties is accepted or barred depending on the results. In 2016, Iberia carried out due diligence processes on 204 third parties. GRI 11.4 Content Index [G4-SO1 / G4-SO2 / G4-SO6 / G4-SO11] 115 11 Society operating carrier, reporting any incidents and assisting 11.5 Rules on competition passengers, expediting the payment of refunds and The programme for compliance with competition rules and attending reduced-mobility passengers and minors. regulations is based on a specific risk matrix at IAG level Another important point regarding passenger rights is and is implemented through the senior management’s dealing with customer complaints. Iberia complies with the commitment to the approved compliance strategy. European regulations on compensation and assistance to This is also reflected in the compliance commitment within passengers in the event of boarding being denied, cancellathe company’s Code of Conduct, the internal guidance for tion or long delay of flights (Regulation (EC) No 261/2004 employees through the Competition Compliance Manual of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 and specific guidelines, training initiatives, the internal February 2004). whistleblowing channel and process monitoring. No formal proceedings were instituted against Iberia in 11.7 Price transparency 2016 with regard to competition issues. Iberia publishes the final prices of its tickets, including all the different elements comprising each price, such as fuel 11.6 Passenger rights surcharges, issue charges or airport taxes, such that the advertised price is the final purchase price of the ticket. European Aviation Customer Commitment, a code of conduct signed on 2 July 2002 together with the other In the checks conducted by the Department of Consumpairlines in the Association of European Airlines (AEA). tion of the European Commission on compliance with EU The code lays down obligations such as respecting the legislation of airline ticket sales on Internet, Iberia is one agreed price, providing any information requested on the of the European airlines that fully respect that legislation, due to its price information transparency and consumer protection in the services offered on Iberia.com. Iberia complies with European regulations on passenger compensation and assistance 116 GRI 11.5 Content Index [G4-SO1 / G4-SO2 / G4-SO7 / G4-SO8 / G4-SO11] 11.6 [G4-SO1 / G4-SO2 / G4-SO11] 11.7 [G4-SO1 / G4-SO2 / G4-SO11 / G4-PR4] 117 12 Product responsibility 1957 The luggage collection and retrieval services at Madrid-Barajas airport 118 Materiality Principal stakeholders for whom products responsibility is material: Customers Society at large Shareholders and investors Associations Principal material aspects in order of importance: Categories of products and services in which safety and impact on health are assessed Customer satisfaction surveys Corroborated complaints regarding privacy of customers and their data GRI Content Index [G4-DMA] 119 12 Product responsibility 12.1 Commitment to continuous improvement Iberia is involved in a permanent improvement and innoBusiness customers can choose a hot meal to ensure their vation process in the services it provides to its customers, choice is available on board both in flight and on the ground. The pursuit of excellence is a crucial objective of the company, which translates into a constantly increasing alignment between supply and demand, which is essential to maintain the leadership positions it enjoys today. Here are some of the developments in 2016. Menu in advance As from July 2016, Iberia customers have been able to choose the food they would like to enjoy on board through www.iberia.com. This new service is available for long-haul flights exiting Spain. Tourist class passengers have seven menu options, with a price ranging from 14 to 26 euros. 120 GRI 12.1 Content Index [G4-PR1] Premium team for VIP lounges Creation of the customer care team for premium customers, reporting to the Customer Department and specialising in the services we provide to high-value passengers at the Madrid hub. The premium team works in the VIP lounges in Madrid and in the Consular Lounge. The agents were selected due to their extensive training in the various areas of the company relating to customer experience at the airport. Special baggage The new policy to accept special baggage (animals, sports equipment, etc.) has been designed in line with the Iberia Express policy to prevent discrepancies on the flights involving the two companies. Connectivity in the children’s lounge Iberia offers Wi-Fi in the lounge for unaccompanied children at Madrid airport. It is increasingly the case that these children have with them devices that can access the Internet for their The results of this initiative are very positive, as is personal entertainment or to communicate with their families, reflected in the increase in the customer perception so the Wi-Fi system makes the wait during transit until their rating of the VIP lounge in Madrid, which one month after introduction had increased by 4.42% connecting flight more comfortable. Ground-handling service due to the new destinations launched Due to the scheduling of new Iberia destinations to Tokyo and Shanghai, a series of measures was adopted to offer a Voluntary surrendering of seats service geared to their culture. Overbooking is one of the incidents with the greatest negaNative staff have been hired that will be present to tive impact on our customers. However, there is always assist during check-in and boarding, and to help with any someone who, having confirmed their place on the flight, is incidents that may arise during these flights. willing to travel on the next available flight in exchange for reasonable monetary compensation. The pre-recorded boarding announcements have been translated to include Mandarin Chinese and Aware of this, at the airport in Madrid we have promoted Japanese. a search for these profiles which are less sensitive to this issue, and are improving the processes to provide a solution Translations have been made of the documents at the time the decision is made, by increasing compensaand forms passengers may require (dangerous goods, tion to 500 euros in cash or a voucher for 750 euros to be unaccompanied children, baggage identification labels, used in one year on purchasing Iberia flights. passenger rights, animal transportation forms, etc.). 121 12 Product responsibility Several seminars have been given on Chinese and Desks for families and children Japanese culture, in which agents are given guidance The company has rolled out a new layout for check-in desks on the particular way to address customers from these to provide special care for families with children at appropricountries, whose culture is so different to the Western ately marked desks. The security screening procedure can culture. As well as dealing with how to address them, also be completed via an access point that is separate from the cultural origins and historical circumstances that other customers. have led to these differences are explained, so that they understand and absorb much better the aspects where A specific area has been designed for unaccompanied chilcare must be taken in dealing with passengers. dren with personalised check-in services, due to the type of documentation they require and enable systematised moniFor the inaugural flights, special innovations were prepared toring of the service up until boarding. for the various stages of the customer experience, particularly in the VIP lounges: regional food, fortune cookies, promotional murals, Japanese flower arrangements (ikebana), attendants wearing Japanese kimonos, personalised inscribing of the customer’s name in kanji calligraphy, a sushi cooking demonstration, etc. Several seminars have been given on Chinese and Japanese culture, in which guidance is given on how to address customers from these countries 122 In addition, VIP lounge agreements were negotiated at the new destinations and those currently operating were renegotiated. The policy followed is to take advantage of the synergies that belonging to IAG permits and use the lounges managed by the companies of the group, with the resulting cost savings and improved corporate image, while keeping earnings inside the group. Iberia supports balance New VIP lounges For Mother’s Day, from 1 May 2016 our Iberia Plus customers can keep their card level for an additional Iberia has built a new VIP lounge in the boarding area of Orly year, even though they fly less frequently during airport (Paris). This is a modern and comfortable space, with their maternity leave, whether due to childbirth, views of the runway, close to the boarding gates and where adoption or fostering. the company’s corporate image is more present. Normally, when people expand their families, frequency of flying drops considerably. Iberia is aware of this and has therefore decided to extend the status of its customers on the Iberia Plus programme. A modern and comfortable space, The card holder has only to inform the company and with views on to the runway, close to provide the documentation demonstrating the situthe boarding gates ation through baby@iberia.es. 123 12 Product responsibility 12.2 Operating safety The operating safety policy is our Iberia’s Operating Safety Policy is its first and foremost commitment to its customers, the aviation authorities main commitment and its employees. This commitment to safety is included in Iberia’s Operation Manual and distributed among all The key tasks in the SMS are:: employees and suppliers. Identification of hazards that may arise in our One of the key points of this policy is the Safety Manageoperations. ment System (SMS), a set of processes implemented within the organisation to obtain and analyse information and Reports from employees based on relevant make coordinated operating decisions, in order for any observations regarding safety, such as risks, mistakes safety risks, as there always are risks, that may arise in and incidents. respect of operations to be mitigated and controlled. In this manner, the company focuses on continuously improving Risk management, in order to undertake mitigating the safety management of all Iberia’s operations. measures based on the level of danger. 124 GRI 12.2 Content Index [G4-PR1 / G4-PR3] Periodical monitoring of ratios that are important 12.3 Quality of service (impacts in handling, errors in maintenance, ground proximity system alerts), to guarantee permanent improvement of safety levels. Punctuality Iberia and Iberia Express continue to achieve success in Monitoring of fulfilment of the measures adopted. punctuality, one of the indicators most valued by customers. In 2016, both airlines were the most punctual in the world in their respective categories, according to Flightstats, the leading consultancy firm in information on flights, services Iberia’s Operating Safety Policy is and applications for the travel industry. its first and foremost commitment Iberia was not only recognised in 2016 as the most to its customers, the aviation punctual international airline in the world (Major Global authorities and its employees Airline), but also as the most punctual in Europe (European Major Airline) and the most punctual network in Europe, when assessing its data together with those of its franchised airline Iberia Regional Air Nostrum (European Major Once hazards have been identified, an assessment of the Airline Network). risks is performed and work is carried out transversally within the organisation to prevent, eliminate or mitigate In the last four years, Iberia has been moving up the puncthem. tuality ranking until it reached the top position. It was the fourth most punctual in 2013, the third in 2014, the second In 2016, a course on the Safety Management System was in 2015 and the first in 2016. given to all cabin crew members, as well as to 1,105 ground employees from all departments of the company. Iberia Express was considered the most punctual low-cost airline in the world for the third year in succession, which SMS management published 54 documents aimed at different is an important international recognition of the effort, departments at Iberia and collaborated with other areas to commitment and dedication of an airline which in just five explain the safety information. years has attained significant achievements. 100 94.1 94.7 94.5 92.9 93.3 91.9 95 92.1 91.8 91.0 90.2 89.3 88.5 90 91.9 91.7 92.4 91.2 90.0 90.4 88.5 86.8 85 87.4 87.5 81.5 87.0 85.4 86.2 84.5 83.3 84.5 80 82.5 82.9 81.3 81.9 89,9 IBERIA EXPRESS 75 79.1 76.2 70 SHORT/MEDIUM 65 HAUL 60 55 LONG HAUL 50 Jan Feb Mar Abr May Jun Jul Aug Sept Oct Nov Dec GRI 12.3 Content Index [G4-PR1 / G4-PR2 / G4-PR5] 125 12 Product responsibility question in the survey on journey experience: How likely would you be to recommend Iberia to a relative, friend or acquaintance? (where 0: you would certainly not recommend it, and 10: you would recommend it for sure). If we call customers who answered with a score of 9 or 10 “promoters” and those who gave a score between 0 and 6 “critics”, the NPS is calculated as the difference between the proportion of promoters over that of critics. 25% 19. 60% 20% 13. 70% 15% 10% 5% Oneworld, to which Iberia and Iberia Express belong, has 0% also been considered the most punctual airline alliance for NPS 2016 NPS 2015 the fourth year in succession. In 2016, the Iberia group operated 194,734 flights, with a punctuality score of 88.6%. As regards Iberia Operador, Furthermore, during the year of the total number of its shortand medium-haul flights, departure punctuality was 88.4%, versus 82.7% for longnumerous measures were haul flights. introduced to improve the experience of our customers. Commitment to satisfaction The main indicator used by Iberia to measure customer perception is the NPS (Net Promoter Score), a recommenIn 2016, the year ended with a closing NPS score of 19.6 dation index drawn up on the basis of the answer to a single points, which shows a significant improvement of 5.9 points over the score in 2015. As well as punctuality, in the NPS for 2016 a determining factor was the modernising of the long-haul fleet, which continued throughout the year with the introduction of the new 330-200 aircraft. The impact of this change was estimated to be a 3.5 point growth in NPS. This is shown in the fact that satisfaction increased in practically all services. Also noteworthy is the increase in satisfaction with our cabins, the technical crews and handling of claims, as well as improvement in recommendation associated with our range of routes and schedules, in the year that we launched our new routes to Shanghai and Tokyo. 126 12.4 Claims handling Iberia Mantenimiento gives Iberia is committed to establishing quality relationships with its customers and giving them excellent service. An priority to the customer and important part of this commitment is suitable handling of to establishing an excellent customer incidents and claims, where handling them well service that covers is a key asset. their specific needs To this end, they are handled proactively, in order to meet the demands of the customers in as short a time as possible. In 2016 response times were shortened by 11 percentage points and the year ended with 96% of claims being 12.5 Quality of service answered in under 21 days. The information from managing claims is used by the Maintenance Customer Experience areas as a source of information for The maintenance, repair and overhaul (MRO) business is continuous improvement of the service. performed in a highly regulated environment which requires specific certificates linked to permanent audits. The main quality indicator is the constant renewal of the different certificates issued by the most important international aviation authorities: the European Aviation Safety Authority (EASA), US Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) and NATO, as well as by manufacturers, civil authorities, aviation companies and official bodies. The full list of these certificates can be seen on the website www.iberiamaintenance.com Surveys are carried out annually to find out the degree of satisfaction felt by customers with regard to the services offered. The use of a new digital platform to send questionnaires has increased the response rate notably, with it rising to 26.15%. At Iberia Maintenance, the final assessment of the service, the quality and delivery times (the most representative attributes for the customer when selecting their maintenance services supplier) was 8.5 out of 10. Airports A total of 139 audits were undertaken at the airports business in 2016, from 41 customer companies to check compliance with both the applicable laws and the manuals and procedures of each operating company. The number of audits by companies rose by 56% versus the previous year. All deviations detected were remedied satisfactorily within the deadlines established after implementing the corresponding corrective actions. GRI 12.4 Content Index [G4-PR1 / G4-PR2 / G4-PR5 / G4-PR9] 12.5 [G4-PR1 / G4-PR2 / G4-PR5] 127 12 Product responsibility The aspects audited include organisation, training, procedures, coordination, loading and unloading of aircraft, check-in and boarding, maintenance of handling equipment, Iberia is committed to its customers’ supply of drinking water and cleaning of aircraft. Special right of privacy and its policies mention should be made of the prestigious Isago certificate comply with the Spanish data awarded by IATA: in 2016 those of the Madrid, Málaga, Palma de Mallorca and Bilbao airports were renewed and the certifiprotection law cate was obtained by the Tenerife Sur and Ibiza airports. 12.6 Customer privacy Iberia ensures the compliance of its obligations in respect These access formats comply with security standards, as of the privacy of its customers’ data. The highest quality does encrypted storage, which ensures the appropriate use standards are followed and information security and thereof. There is also regular testing and back-up copies security policies are applied that comply with applicable are made to prevent information from becoming lost in the legislation, i.e. the Spanish Organic Law on Personal Data event of an incident. Protection (LOPD). The Data Protection Regulations have also been approved Demonstrating its commitment are the policies laid down internally, with the aim of guaranteeing awareness of governing access to the various systems to ensure that access existing obligations to protect data and applicable security is individual and non-transferable. Specifically, they have measures. been designed so that access is only possible in accordance No incidents attributable to Iberia occurred in 2016. with the profile and duties of each user. 128 GRI 12.6 Content Index [G4-PR2 / G4-PR8] Iberia’s presence on main social networks: 12.7 Communication channels Social networks No. of followers Iberia is committed to the involvement and participation of Facebook 1, 588,618 its stakeholders, and has several procedures for gathering information to allow it to find out the expectations, opinions Twitter 591,354 and needs of those stakeholders. Between these channels, Google + 7,398 over the last few years its social-network-based communiInstagram 101,736 cation strategies have been consolidated. Pinterest 1,272 Iberia’s choice in this sphere has led it to become recognised Linkedin 60,759 as one of the best-rated companies in agencies, including TREI, Social Bakers and On Magazine networks, as substanYouTube 14,893 tiated by the leading online the Spanish digital environment Weibo 426 and one of the most active in social reputation Wechat 177 Youku 3 Iberia is present in the social TOTAL 2,666,636 networks that are most popular among users and is one of the 12.8 Advertising ethics airlines with the most followers Iberia is committed to respecting its stakeholders’ rights and champions responsible advertising based on the ethical The strategy followed on social networks has centred principles of the Association for Self-regulation of Commeron achieving closer relationships with customers, giving cial Communication (Autocontrol). and obtaining useful and interesting information, solving queries and offering specific marketing campaigns that help This association is dedicated to monitoring the advertising them to identify with the brand. industry, ensuring that there are guarantees of confidence and credibility in the commercial community. In 2016, the company, coinciding with the commencement of its new destinations in Asia, opened two new channels in Chinese (Weibo and Wechat) and added Japanese in its Iberia contributes to strengthening Facebook and Twitter profiles. advertising self-regulation GRI 12.8 Content Index [G4-PR7] 129 Annex GRI G4 Content Index 1927 The Rohrbach-Roland aircraft was the first to be acquired by the company to inaugurate its flights 130 The Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) is an independent institution that created the first global standard for criteria for preparing sustainability reports for companies that wish to assess their economic, environmental and social performance. It is an official collaborating centre of UNEP, the United Nations Environment Programme. Created in 1997, until 2002 the GRI was a joint project between the UNEP and CERES (Coalition for Environmentally Responsible Economies). It was conceived with the aim of improving the quality of the sustainability reports prepared, to put them on an equal footing with financial reporting in terms of comparability, rigour, credibility, regularity and verifiability. At the current time, it is an independent institution with its own Board of Directors and is based in Amsterdam. The GRI boasts active participation from representatives from human rights, labour rights, research and environmental organisations, and from corporations, investors and accounting organisations 131 GRI G4 Content Index 13.1 General standard disclosures General standard Location in the report or explanation disclosures by page/section/direct reply Omissions STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS G4-1 Statement from the chairman. Section 1.1 of the CR Report No Section 1.1, 1.2 and 6.2 of the CR Provide a description of key impacts, risks G4-2 Report, Page 47 of the 2016 Annual No and opportunities Report and Financial Statements of IAG ORGANISATIONAL PROFILE IBERIA, L.A.E., S.A. OPERADORA, G4-3 Report the name of the organisation. No SOCIEDAD UNIPERSONAL IBERIA LINEAS AEREAS G4-4 Report the primary brands, products and services IBERIA AIRPORT SERVICES No IBERIA MANTENIMIENTO Report the location of the organisation’s C/ Martínez Villergas, 49 G4-5 No headquarters. 28027, MADRID (ESPAÑA) Report the number of countries where the 43 countries: G4-6 organisation operates and names of countries Spain and Latin America (Argentina, No where the organisation has significant operations Brazil, Lima, Chile,..) and the US. SOCIEDAD ANÓNIMA UNIPERSONAL. G4-7 Report the nature of ownership and legal form. It belongs to the shareholders of No International Airlines Group (IAG) Air Transport Business: Spain, Europe, America, Africa and Middle East. Report the markets served (including geographic Maintenance and Airport G4-8 breakdown, sectors served, and types of customers No Services Businesses: Spain, Europe, and beneficiaries). America and Africa. From Spain, it assists airlines around the world. a. Report the scale of the organisation, including: • total number of employees; Section 9.1 CR Report No • total number of operations; Section 2.2, 2.3, 2.4 and 7.1 CR Report; No • net sales (for private sector organisations) or net Section 7.1 CR Report No revenues (for public sector organisations); G4-9 • total capitalisation broken down in terms of debt Section 7.1 CR Report No and equity (for private sector organisations); and • quantity of products or services provided. Section 2.2, 2.3, 2.4 and 2.5 CR Report No 132 General standard Location in the report or explanation disclosures by page/section/direct reply Omissions ORGANISATIONAL PROFILE a. Total number of employees by employment contract Section 9.1 and 9.5 CR Report No and gender b. Total number of permanent employees by Section 9.1 and 9.5 CR Report No employment type and gender. c. Report the total workforce by employees, supervised Section 9.1 and 9.5 CR Report No workers and by gender. d. Report the total workforce by region and gender. Section 9.1 and 9.5 CR Report No G4-10 e. Report whether a substantial portion of the organisation’s work is performed by workers who are legally recognised as self-employed, or by individuals Section 9.1 CR Report No other than employees or supervised workers, including employees and supervised employees of contractors. f. Report any significant variations in employment numbers (such as seasonal variations in employment in Section 9.1 CR Report No the tourism or agricultural industries). Report the percentage of total employees covered by G4-11 Section 9.2 CR Report No collective bargaining agreements Section 2.1, 2.2, 2.3, 2.4, 2.5, 2.6, 2.7 G4-12 Describe the organisation’s supply chain No and 2.8 CR Report Report any significant changes during the reporting G4-13 Section 1.2 CR Report No period regarding the organisation. Report whether and how the precautionary approach or G4-14 Section 6.2 CR Report No principle is addressed by the organisation List externally developed principles or initiatives to Section 10.1, 11.1 G4-15 No which the organisation subscribes or which it endorses. and 11.2 CR Report G4-16 List memberships of associations and organisations. Section 2.10 CR Report No IDENTIFIED MATERIAL ASPECTS AND BOUNDARIES List all entities included in the organisation’s financial G4-17 Section 5 CR Report No statements. Explain the process for defining the report content and G4-18 Section 4 and 5 CR Report No the aspect boundaries. List all the material aspects identified in the process for G4-19 Section 4 CR Report No defining report content. For each material aspect, report the aspect boundary G4-20 Section 4 CR Report No within the organisation. 133 GRI G4 Content Index General standard Location in the report or explanation by disclosures page/section/direct reply Omissions IDENTIFIED MATERIAL ASPECTS AND BOUNDARIES For each material aspect, report the aspect G4-21 Section 4 and 5 CR Report No boundary outside the organisation. Report the effect of any restatements of In preparing this Report, the materiality G4-22 information provided in previous reports, and the analysis completed in 2014 was taken No reasons for such restatements. into account Report significant changes from previous In preparing this Report, the materiality G4-23 reporting periods in the scope and aspect analysis completed in 2014 was taken No boundaries. into account STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT G4-24 Provide a list of stakeholder groups Section 3 CR Report No Report the basis for identification and selection G4-25 Section 3 CR Report No of Stakeholders with whom to engage. Report the organisation’s approach to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement by type and by stakeholder G4-26 Section 3 CR Report No group, and an indication of whether any of the engagement was undertaken specifically as part of the report preparation process. Report key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the organisation has responded to those G4-27 Section 3 CR Report No key topics and concerns, including through its reporting. Report the stakeholder groups that raised each of the key topics and concerns. REPORT PROFILE G4-28 Reporting period for information provided 2016 No G4-29 Date of most recent previous report. 2015 No G4-30 Reporting cycle. Annual No G4-31 Provide the contact point at the organisation. responsabilidadcorporativa@iberia.es No G4-32 Report the ‘in accordance’ option chosen. Comprehensive No 134 General standard Location in the report or explanation disclosures by page/section/direct reply Omissions REPORT PROFILE Report the organisation’s policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report. If not included in the assurance report accompanying the sustainability report, report the scope and basis G4-33 of any external assurance provided. Report Section 5 CR Report No the relationship between the organisation and the assurance providers. Report whether the highest governance body or senior executives are involved in seeking assurance for the organisation’s sustainability report. GOVERNANCE Report the governance structure of the G4-34 Section 6.1 CR Report No organisation. Report the process for delegating authority for economic, environmental and social topics from G4-35 Section 6.1 CR Report No the highest governance body to senior executives and other employees. Report whether the organisation has appointed an executive-level position or positions with G4-36 responsibility for economic, environmental and Section 6.1 CR Report No social topics, and whether post holders report directly to the highest governance body. Report processes for consultation between stakeholders and the highest governance body G4-37 on economic, environmental and social topics. If Section 6.1 CR Report No consultation is delegated, describe to whom and any feedback processes to the highest governance body. Report the composition of the highest G4-38 Section 6.1 CR Report No governance body and its committees. Report whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive officer G4-39 and, if so, his or her function within the Section 6.1 CR Report No organisation’s management and the reasons for this arrangement. 135 GRI G4 Content Index General standard Location in the report or explanation disclosures by page/section/direct reply Omissions GOVERNANCE Report the nomination and selection processes for the highest governance body and its committees, G4-40 Section 6.1 CR Report No and the criteria used for nominating and selecting highest governance body members. Report processes for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided and G4-41 Section 6.1 CR Report No managed. Report whether conflicts of interest are disclosed to stakeholders. Report the highest governance body’s and senior executives’ roles in the development, approval, and updating of the organisation’s purpose, value or G4-42 Section 6.1 CR Report No mission statements, strategies, policies, and goals related to economic, environmental and social impacts. Report the measures taken to develop and enhance G4-43 the highest governance body’s collective knowledge Section 6.1 CR Report No of economic, environmental and social topics. Report the processes for evaluation of the highest governance body’s performance with respect to governance of economic, environmental and G4-44 Section 6.2 CR Report No social topics. Report whether such evaluation is independent or not, and its frequency. Report whether such evaluation is a self-assessment. Report the highest governance body’s role in the identification and management of economic, environmental and social impacts, risks and G4-45 Section 6.2 CR Report No opportunities. Include the highest governance body’s role in the implementation of due diligence processes. Report the highest governance body’s role in reviewing the effectiveness of the organisation’s G4-46 Section 6.1, 6.2, and 6.3 CR Report No risk management processes for economic, environmental and social topics. Report the frequency of the highest governance G4-47 body’s review of economic, environmental and social Section 6.1, 6.2, and 6.3 CR Report No impacts, risks and opportunities. Report the highest committee or position that formally reviews and approves the organisation’s Section 6 CR Report G4-48 No sustainability report and ensures that all material (Board of Directors of Iberia) aspects are covered. 136 General standard Location in the report or explanation disclosures by page/section/direct reply Omissions GOVERNANCE Report the process for communicating critical Section 6.1, 6.2, 6.3, 6.4 and 6.5 G4-49 No concerns to the highest governance body. CR Report Report the nature and total number of critical Section 6.1, 6.2 and 6.5 G4-50 concerns that were communicated to the highest Page 47 of the 2016 Annual Report No governance body. and Financial Statements of IAG Report the remuneration policies for the highest Page 1 of the Report on Directors’ G4-51 No governance body and senior executives. Remuneration 2016 Report the process for determining remuneration. Report whether remuneration consultants are involved in determining remuneration and whether Page 3 of the Report on Directors’ G4-52 No they are independent of management. Report Remuneration 2016 any other relationships which the remuneration consultants have with the organisation. Report how stakeholders’ views are sought and taken into account regarding remuneration, Page 24 of the Report on Directors’ G4-53 No including the results of votes on remuneration Remuneration 2016 policies and proposals, if applicable. Report the ratio of the annual total compensation for the organisation’s highest paid individual in each country of significant operations to Page 28 of the Report on Directors’ G4-54 No the median annual total compensation for all Remuneration 2016 employees (excluding the highest-paid individual) in the same country. Report the ratio of percentage increase in annual total compensation for the organisation’s highestpaid individual in each country of significant Page 28 of the Report on Directors’ G4-55 operations to the median percentage increase No Remuneration 2016 in annual total compensation for all employees (excluding the highest-paid individual) in the same country. ETHICS AND INTEGRITY Describe the organisation’s values, principles, G4-56 standards and norms of behaviour such as codes of Section 6.4 CR Report No conduct and codes of ethics. Report the internal and external mechanisms for seeking advice on ethical and lawful behaviour, G4-57 Section 6.5 CR Report No and matters related to organisational integrity, such as helplines or advice lines. Report the internal and external mechanisms for reporting concerns about unethical or unlawful G4-58 Section 6.5 CR Report No behaviour, and matters related to organisational integrity. 137 GRI G4 Content Index 13.2 Specific standard disclosures Disclosures on Management Approach Location in the report or explanation and Indicators by page/section/direct reply Omissions ECONOMIC Material Aspect: Economic performance G4-DMA Page 59 of the CR Report No a. Report the direct economic value generated and distributed (EVG&D) on an accruals basis including The investment data, following the the basic components for the organization’s global GRI G4 indicators criteria, represent No operations as listed below. If data is presented on a investments outside the commercial cash basis, report the justification for this decision activity and report the basic components as listed below: • direct economic value generated: Section 7.1 CR Report No revenues • economic value distributed: operating costs; G4-EC1 employee wages and benefits; Section 7.1 CR Report No payments to providers of capital; payments to government (by country); and • economic value retained (calculated as ‘Direct economic value generated’ less ‘Economic value Section 7.1 CR Report No distributed’); b. To better assess local economic impacts, report EVG&D separately at country, regional, or market Section 7.1 CR Report No levels, where significant. Report the criteria used for defining significance. a. Report risks and opportunities posed by climate change that have the potential to generate substantive changes in operations, revenue or expenditure, including: • a description of the impact associated with the risk or Section 8.3 CR Report No opportunity; G4-EC2 • the financial implications of the risk or opportunity Section 8.3 CR Report No before action is taken; • the methods used to manage the risk or Section 8.3 CR Report No opportunity; and • the cost of actions taken to manage the risk or Section 8.3 CR Report No opportunity. 138 Disclosures on Management Approach Location in the report or explanation and Indicators by page/section/direct reply Omissions ECONOMIC Material Aspect: Economic performance G4-DMA Page 59 of the CR Report No Where the plan’s liabilities are met by the organisation’s general resources, report the estimated value of those liabilities. Where a separate fund exists to pay the plan’s pension liabilities, report: • The extent to which the scheme’s liabilities are estimated to be covered by the assets that have been set aside to meet them • The basis on which that estimate has been arrived at G4-EC3 • When that estimate was made. Section 7.1 CR Report No Where a fund set up to pay the plan’s pension liabilities is not fully covered, explain the strategy, if any, adopted by the employer to work towards full coverage, and the time scale, if any, by which the employer hopes to achieve full coverage. Report the percentage of salary contributed by employee or employer. Report the level of participation in retirement plans (such as participation in mandatory or voluntary schemes, regional or country-based schemes, or those with financial impact). Report the total monetary value of financial assistance received by the organisation from governments during the reporting period, including, as a minimum: • Tax relief and tax credits • Subsidies • Investment grants, research and development grants, and other relevant types of grants • Awards G4-EC4 Section 7.1 and 7.2 CR Report No • Royalty holidays • Financial assistance from Export Credit Agencies (ECAs) • Financial incentives • Other financial benefits received or receivable from any government for any operation. Report the information above by country. Report whether, and the extent to which, the government is present in the shareholding structure. 139 GRI G4 Content Index Disclosures on Management Approach Location in the report or explanation and Indicators by page/section/direct reply Omissions ECONOMIC Material Aspect: Market presence G4-DMA Page 77 of the CR Report No When a significant proportion of the workforce is compensated based on wages subject to minimum wage rules, report the ratio of the entry level wage by gender at significant locations of operation to the minimum wage. Report whether G4-EC5 a local minimum wage is absent or variable at Section 9.1 CR Report No significant locations of operation, by gender. In circumstances in which different minimums could be used as a reference, report which minimum wage is being used. Report the definition used for ‘significant locations of operation’. Report the percentage of senior management at G4-EC6 significant locations of operation that are hired Section 9.1 CR Report No from the local community. Material Aspect: Indirect economic impacts G4-DMA Page 59 of the CR Report No Report the extent of development of significant infrastructure investments and services supported. Report the current or expected impacts on communities and local economies. G4-EC7 Section 7.1 CR Report No Report positive and negative impacts where relevant. Report whether these investments and services are commercial, in-kind, or pro bono engagements. Report examples of the significant identified positive and negative indirect economic impacts the organisation has. Report the significance G4-EC8 of the impacts in the context of external Section 7.1 CR Report No benchmarks and stakeholder priorities, such as national and international standards, protocols, and policy agendas. 140 Disclosures on Management Approach Location in the report or explanaand Indicators tion by page/section/direct reply Omissions ECONOMIC Material Aspect: Procurement practices G4-DMA Page 59 of the CR Report No Report the percentage of the procurement 100% of the purchases made in countries with significant operations (Europe, G4-EC9 budget used for significant locations of operation No America, Asia and Africa) goes to local spent on suppliers local to that operation. suppliers. ENVIRONMENTAL Material Aspect: Materials G4-DMA Page 65 of the CR Report Report the total weight or volume of materials that Not applicable since are used to produce and package the organisation’s Iberia’s main activity is G4-EN1 primary products and services during the reporting the marketing of seats period. / flight hours Report the percentage of recycled input materials Not applicable since Iberia’s main activity is G4-EN2 used to manufacture the organisation’s primary the marketing of seats products and services. / flight hours Material Aspect: Energy G4-DMA Page 65 of the CR Report No a. Report total fuel consumption from non-renewable sources in joules or multiples, Section 8.1 CR Report No including fuel types used b. Report total fuel consumption from renewable fuel sources in joules or multiples, including fuel Section 8.1 CR Report No types used. c. Report in joules, watt-hours or multiples, the total Section 8.1 CR Report No • Electricity consumption; Section 8.1 CR Report No G4-EN3 • Heating consumption; Section 8.1 CR Report No • Cooling consumption; and Section 8.1 CR Report No • Steam consumption. Section 8.1 CR Report No d. Report in joules, watt-hours or multiples, the total: Section 8.1 CR Report No • Electricity sold; Section 8.1 CR Report No • Heating sold; Section 8.1 CR Report No • Cooling sold; Section 8.1 CR Report No • Steam sold. Section 8.1 CR Report No 141 GRI G4 Content Index Disclosures on Management Approach Location in the report or explanaand Indicators tion by page/section/direct reply Omissions ENVIRONMENTAL Material Aspect: Energy G4-DMA Page 65 of the CR Report No e. Report energy consumed outside of the Section 8.1 CR Report No organisation, in joules or multiples. f. Report standards, methodologies and G4-EN3 Section 8.1 CR Report No assumptions used. g. Report the source of the conversion factors used. Section 8.1 CR Report No Report energy consumed outside of the G4-EN4 Section 8.1 CR Report No organisation, in joules or multiples. Report the energy intensity ratio. Section 8.1 CR Report No Report the organisation-specific metric (the ratio Section 8.1 CR Report No denominator) chosen to calculate the ratio. G4-EN5 Report the types of energy included in the intensity ratio: fuel, electricity, heating, cooling, Section 8.1 CR Report No steam, or all. Report whether the ratio uses energy consumed Section 8.1 CR Report No within the organisation, outside of it or both. Report the amount of reductions in energy consumption achieved as a direct result of Section 8.1 CR Report No conservation and efficiency initiatives, in joules or G4-EN6 multiples. Report the types of energy included in the reductions: fuel, electricity, heating, cooling, and Section 8.1 CR Report No steam vapour. Report the reductions in the energy requirements G4-EN7 of sold products and services achieved during the Section 8.3 CR Report No reporting period, in joules or multiples. Material Aspect: Water G4-DMA Page 65 of the CR Report No G4-EN8 Report the total volume of water withdrawn Section 8.1 CR Report No Not applicable: Report the total number of water sources no withdrawal G4-EN9 Section 8.1 CR Report significantly affected by withdrawal by type of water sources was performed 142 Disclosures on Management Approach Location in the report or explanaand Indicators tion by page/section/direct reply Omissions ENVIRONMENTAL Material Aspect: Water G4-DMA Page 65 of the CR Report No Report the total volume of water recycled and Section 8.1 CR Report Not reused by the organisation. applicable: G4-EN10 water has not Report the total volume of water recycled been recycled and reused as a percentage of the total water Section 8.1 CR Report or reused withdrawal reported under Indicator G4-EN8. Material Aspect: Biodiversity G4-DMA Page 65 of the CR Report No Not applicable: a. Report the following information for each Iberia’s operational site owned, leased, managed in, or activities are adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high not carried biodiversity value outside protected areas: out in areas of high value for biodiversity • Geographic location Section 8.2 CR Report Not applicable • Subsurface and underground land that may be Section 8.2 CR Report Not applicable owned, leased, or managed by the organisation • Position in relation to the protected area (in the area, adjacent to, or containing portions of the G4-EN11 Section 8.2 CR Report Not applicable protected area) or the high biodiversity value area outside protected areas • Type of operation (office, manufacturing or Section 8.2 CR Report Not applicable production, or extractive) • Size of operational site in km2; and Section 8.2 CR Report Not applicable • Biodiversity value characterised by: the attribute of the protected area or high biodiversity value area outside the protected area (terrestrial, freshwater, or maritime ecosystem) and . Section 8.2 CR Report Not applicable listing of protected status (such as IUCN Protected Area Management Categories, Ramsar Convention, national legislation). 143 GRI G4 Content Index Disclosures on Management Approach Location in the report or explanaand Indicators tion by page/section/direct reply Omissions ENVIRONMENTAL Material Aspect: Biodiversity G4-DMA Page 65 of the CR Report No Not applicable: a. Report the nature of significant direct and Iberia’s activities are indirect impacts on biodiversity, with reference not carried out in to one or more of the following: areas of high value for biodiversity • construction or use of manufacturing plants, Section 8.2 CR Report Not applicable mines, and transport infrastructure • pollution (introduction of substances that do not naturally occur in the habitat from point and Section 8.2 CR Report Not applicable non-point sources); • introduction of invasive species, pests, and Section 8.2 CR Report Not applicable pathogens; • reduction of species; Section 8.2 CR Report Not applicable G4-EN12 • habitat conversion; and Section 8.2 CR Report Not applicable • changes in ecological processes outside the natural range of variation (such as salinity or Section 8.2 CR Report Not applicable changes in groundwater level). Not applicable: b. Report significant direct and indirect positive and Iberia’s activities are not carried out in negative impacts with reference to the following: areas of high value for biodiversity • species affected; Section 8.2 CR Report Not applicable • extent of areas impacted; Section 8.2 CR Report Not applicable • duration of impacts; and Section 8.2 CR Report Not applicable • reversibility or irreversibility of the impacts Section 8.2 CR Report Not applicable Report the size and location of all habitat protected areas or restored areas, and whether the success of Section 8.2 CR Report the restoration measure was or is approved by independent external professionals. Report whether partnerships exist with third parties Not applicable: to protect or restore habitat areas distinct from Iberia’s activities are G4-EN13 Section 8.2 CR Report not carried out in where the organisation has overseen and impleareas of high value mented restoration or protection measures. for biodiversity Report on the status of each area based on its Section 8.2 CR Report condition at the close of the reporting period. Report standards, methodologies, and assumpSection 8.2 CR Report tions used. 144 Disclosures on Management Approach Location in the report or explanaand Indicators tion by page/section/direct reply Omissions ENVIRONMENTAL Material Aspect: Biodiversity G4-DMA Page 65 of the CR Report No Not applicable: Report the total number of IUCN Red List species Iberia’s activities and national conservation list species with are not carried G4-EN14 Section 8.2 CR Report habitats in areas affected by the operations of the out in areas of organisation, by level of extinction risk. great value for biodiversity Material Aspect: Emissions G4-DMA Page 65 of the CR Report No Report gross direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions in metric tonnes of CO2 equivalent, independent Section 8.3 CR Report No of any GHG trades, such as purchases, sales, or transfers of offsets or allowances. G4-EN15 Report gases included in the calculation (whether Section 8.3 CR Report No CO2, CH4, N2O, HFCs, PFCs, SF6, NF3, or all). Report biogenic CO2 emissions in metric tonnes of CO2 equivalent separately from the gross direct Section 8.3 CR Report No (Scope 1) GHG emissions. Report gross energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions in metric tonnes of CO2 equivaG4-EN16 lent, independent of any GHG trades, such as Section 8.3 CR Report No purchases, sales, or transfers of offsets or allowances. Report gross other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions in metric tonnes of CO2 equivalent, excluding indirect emissions from the generation of purchased or acquired electricity, heating, cooling, and steam Section 8.3 CR Report No consumed by the organisation (these indirect emissions are reported in Indicator G4-EN16). Exclude any GHG trades, such as purchases, sales, or transfers of offsets or allowances. G4-EN17 Report gases included in the calculation, Section 8.3 CR Report No if available. Report biogenic CO2 emissions in metric tonnes of CO2 equivalent separately from the gross direct Section 8.3 CR Report No (Scope 3) GHG emissions. Report other indirect (Scope 3) emissions categories Section 8.3 CR Report No and activities included in the calculation. 145 GRI G4 Content Index Disclosures on Management Approach Location in the report or explanation and Indicators by page/section/direct reply Omissions ENVIRONMENTAL Material Aspect: Emissions G4-DMA Page 65 of the CR Report No Report the GHG emissions intensity ratio. Section 8.3 CR Report No Report the organisation-specific metric (the ratio Section 8.3 CR Report No denominator) chosen to calculate the ratio. G4-EN18 Report the types of GHG emissions included in the intensity ratio: direct (Scope 1), energy indirect Section 8.3 CR Report No (Scope 2), other indirect (Scope 3). Report gases included in the calculation. Section 8.3 CR Report No Report the amount of GHG emissions reductions achieved as a direct result of initiatives to reduce Section 8.3 CR Report No emissions, in metric tonnes of CO2 equivalent. Report gases included in the calculation (whether Section 8.3 CR Report No CO2, CH4, N2O, HFCs, PFCs, SF6, NF3 or all). Report the chosen base year or baseline and the G4-EN19 Section 8.3 CR Report No rationale for choosing it. Report standards, methodologies, and Section 8.3 CR Report No assumptions used. Report whether the reductions in GHG emissions occurred in direct (Scope 1), energy indirect Section 8.3 CR Report No (Scope 2), other indirect (Scope 3) emissions. Report production, imports, and exports of ODS in Section 8.3 CR Report No metric tonnes of CFC-11 equivalent. Report substances included in the calculation. Section 8.3 CR Report No G4-EN20 Report standards, methodologies, and Section 8.3 CR Report No assumptions used. Report the source of the emission factors used. Section 8.3 CR Report No 146 Disclosures on Management Approach Location in the report or explanaand Indicators tion by page/section/direct reply Omissions ENVIRONMENTAL Material Aspect: Emissions G4-DMA Page 65 of the CR Report No Report the amount of significant air emissions, in kilograms or multiples for each of the following: • NOX; Section 8.4 CR Report No • SOX; Section 8.4 CR Report The present methodology (defined by ICAO) is solely based on • persistent organic pollutants (POP); Section 8.4 CR Report LTO (Landing and Take-Off) cycles G4-EN21 • volatile organic compounds (VOC); Section 8.4 CR Report No • hazardous air pollutants (HAP); Section 8.4 CR Report The present methodology (defined by ICAO) • particulate matter (PM);; Section 8.4 CR Report is solely based on • other standard categories of air emissions identiLTO (Landing and Section 8.4 CR Report Take-Off) cycles fied in relevant regulations. Report standards, methodologies, and assumptions used. Report the source of the Section 8.4 CR Report No emission factors used. Material Aspect: Effluents and waste G4-DMA Page 65 of the CR Report No Report the total volume of planned and unplanned water discharges by: • destination; Section 8.5 CR Report No • quality of the water including treatment method; Section 8.5 CR Report No G4-EN22 Not applicable: water • whether it was reused by another organisation Section 8.5 CR Report has not been recycled or reused Report standards, methodologies, and Section 8.5 CR Report No assumptions used. 147 GRI G4 Content Index Disclosures on Management Approach Location in the report or explanation by and Indicators page/section/direct reply Omissions ENVIRONMENTAL Material Aspect: Emissions G4-DMA Page 65 of the CR Report No a. Report the nature of significant direct and indirect impacts on biodiversity, with reference to one or more of the following: • reuse; Section 8.5 CR Report No • recycling; Section 8.5 CR Report No • composting;; Section 8.5 CR Report No • recovering, including energy recover; Section 8.5 CR Report No • incineration (mass burn);; Section 8.5 CR Report No • deep well injection; Section 8.5 CR Report No • landfill; Section 8.5 CR Report No G4-EN23 • on-site storage; Section 8.5 CR Report No • other (to be specified by the organisation). Section 8.5 CR Report No b. Report how the waste disposal method has Section 8.5 CR Report No been determined: • Disposed of directly by the organisation or Section 8.5 CR Report No otherwise directly confirmed • Information provided by the waste disposal Section 8.5 CR Report No contractor. • Organisational defaults of the waste disposal Section 8.5 CR Report No contractor. 148 Disclosures on Management Approach Location in the report or explanaand Indicators tion by page/section/direct reply Omissions ENVIRONMENTAL Material Aspect: Effluents and waste G4-DMA Page 65 of the CR Report No a. Report the total number and total volume of Section 8.5 CR Report No recorded significant spills. b. For spills that were reported in the organisation’s financial statements, report the additional Section 8.5 CR Report No following information for each such spill: • location of spill;; Section 8.5 CR Report • volume of spill;; Section 8.5 CR Report • Material of spill, categorised by G4-EN24 Oil spills (soil or water surfaces); Not applicable: no Fuel spills (soil or water surfaces); spills have occurred Spills of wastes (soil or water surfaces) Section 8.5 CR Report Spills of chemicals (mostly soil or water surfaces); and – other (to be specified by the organization). Not applicable: no c. .Report the impacts of significant spills Section 8.5 CR Report spills have occurred a. Report the total weight: Not applicable: no • Hazardous waste transported; Section 8.5 CR Report hazardous waste has been transported Not applicable: no • Hazardous waste imported; Section 8.5 CR Report hazardous waste has been imported G4-EN25 Not applicable: no • Hazardous waste exported; and Section 8.5 CR Report hazardous waste has been exported • Hazardous waste treated Section 8.5 CR Report No Not applicable:: no b. Report the percentage of hazardous waste hazardous waste has Section 8.5 CR Report shipped internationally been transported internationally a. Report water bodies and related habitats that are significantly affected by water discharges, based on Section 8.5 CR Report No the criteria described in the Implementation Manual, adding information on: G4-EN26 • Size of water body and related habitat; Section 8.5 CR Report Not applicable: no • Whether the water body and related habitat is desigwater bodies or Section 8.5 CR Report related habitats have nated as a protected area (nationally or internationally) been affected by • Biodiversity value (such as total number of water discharges Section 8.5 CR Report protected species) 149 GRI G4 Content Index Disclosures on Management Approach Location in the report or explanaand Indicators tion by page/section/direct reply Omissions ENVIRONMENTAL Material Aspect: Products and services G4-DMA Page 65 of the CR Report No Report quantitatively the extent to which environmental impacts of products and services have been mitigated during the reporting period. G4-EN27 Section 8.1, 8.3 and 8.4 CR Report No If use-oriented figures are employed, report the underlying assumptions regarding consumption patterns or normalisation factors. Report the percentage of reclaimed products Not applicable since and their packaging materials for each product Iberia’s main activity is G4-EN28 Section 8.6 CR Report category. Report how the data for this Indicator the marketing of seats has been collected / flight hours Material Aspect: Compliance G4-DMA Page 65 of the CR Report No a. Report significant fines and non-monetary Section 8.6 CR Report No sanctions in terms of: • Total monetary value of significant fines; Section 8.6 CR Report No Total number of non-monetary sanctions; and • cases brought through dispute resolution Section 8.6 CR Report No mechanisms. G4-EN29 • cases brought through dispute resolution Section 8.6 CR Report No mechanisms. b. Where organisations have not identified any non-compliance with laws or regulations, a brief Section 8.6 CR Report No statement of this fact is sufficient. Material Aspect: Transport G4-DMA Page 65 of the CR Report No Report the significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and materials for the organisation’s operations, and Section 8.1 CR Report No transporting members of the workforce. Where quantitative data is not provided, report the reason. Report how the environmental impacts G4-EN30 of transporting products, members of the Section 8.1 CR Report No organisation’s workforce, and other goods and materials are mitigated. Report the criteria and methodology used to determine which environmental impacts are Section 8.1 CR Report No significant. 150 Disclosures on Management Approach Location in the report or explanation and Indicators by page/section/direct reply Omissions ENVIRONMENTAL Material Aspect: General G4-DMA Page 65 of the CR Report No a. Report total environmental protection Section 8.6 CR Report No expenditures by: G4-EN31 • Waste disposal, emissions treatment, and Section 8.6 CR Report No remediation costs • Prevention and environmental management costs. Section 8.6 CR Report No Material Aspect: Supplier environmental assessment G4-DMA Page 97 of the CR Report No Report the percentage of new suppliers that were G4-EN32 Section 10.3 CR Report No screened Section using environmental criteria Report the number of suppliers subject to Section 10.3 CR Report No environmental impact assessments. Report the number of suppliers identified as having significant actual and potential negative Section 10.3 CR Report No environmental impacts. Report the significant actual and potential negative environmental impacts identified in the Section 10.3 CR Report No supply chain G4-EN33 Report the percentage of suppliers identified as having significant actual and potential negative Section 10.3 CR Report No environmental impacts with which improvements were agreed upon as a result of assessment. Report the percentage of suppliers identified as having significant actual and potential negative Section 10.3 CR Report No environmental impacts with which relationships were terminated as a result of assessment, and why. Material Aspect: Environmental grievance mechanisms G4-DMA Page 65 of the CR Report No a. Report the total number of grievances about environmental impacts filed through formal grievance Section 8.6 CR Report No mechanisms during the reporting period. b. Of the identified grievances, report how many were: G4-EN34 • Addressed during the reporting period; Section 8.6 CR Report No • Resolved during the reporting period. Section 8.6 CR Report No c. Report the total number of grievances about environmental impacts filed prior to the reporting period Section 8.6 CR Report No that were resolved during the reporting period. 151 GRI G4 Content Index Disclosures on Management Approach Location in the report or explanation by and Indicators page/section/direct reply Omissions SOCIAL LABOUR PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK Material Aspect: Employment G4-DMA Page 77 of the CR Report No Report the total number and rate of new employee hires during the reporting period, by age group, gender and region. Report the total G4-LA1 Section 9.1 and 9.5 CR Report No number and rate of employee turnover during the reporting period, by age group, gender and region. • Report the benefits which are standard for fulltime employees of the organisation but are not provided to temporary or part-time employees, by significant locations of operation. These include, as a minimum: • Life insurance • Health care G4-LA2 Section 9.1 and 9.5 CR Report No • Disability and invalidity coverage • Parental leave • Retirement provision • Stock ownership • Others • Report the definition used for ‘significant locations of operation’. Report the total number of employees that were Section 9.5 CR Report No entitled to parental leave, by gender. Report the total number of employees that took Section 9.5 CR Report No parental leave, by Report the total number of employees who returned to work after parental leave ended, by Section 9.5 CR Report No gender. G4-LA3 Report the total number of employees who returned to work after parental leave ended who Section 9.5 CR Report No were still employed twelve months after their return to work, by gender. Report the return to work and retention rates of Section 9.5 CR Report No employees who took parental leave, by gender. 152 Disclosures on Management Approach Location in the report or explanation and Indicators by page/section/direct reply Omissions SOCIAL LABOUR PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK Material Aspect: Labour/management relations G4-DMA Page 77 of the CR Report No Report the minimum number of weeks’ notice typically provided to employees and their elected representatives prior to the implementation of significant operational changes that could G4-LA4 substantially affect them. For organisations with Section 9.2 CR Report No collective bargaining agreements, report whether the notice period and provisions for consultation and negotiation are specified in collective agreements Material Aspect: Occupational health and safety G4-DMA Page 77 of the CR Report No Report the level at which each formal joint management-worker health and safety committee typically operates within the organisation. G4-LA5 Section 9.3 CR Report No Report the percentage of the total workforce represented in formal joint management-worker health and safety committees. Report types of injury, injury rate (IR), occupational diseases rate (ODR), lost day rate (LDR), absentee rate (AR) and work-related fatalities, for the total Section 9.3 CR Report No workforce (that is, total employees plus supervised workers), by region and gender. Report types of injury, injury rate (IR), occupational G4-LA6 diseases rate (ODR), lost day rate (LDR), absentee rate (AR) and work-related fatalities for independent Section 9.3 CR Report No contractors working on-site to whom the organisation is liable for the general safety of the working environment, by region and gender. Report the system of rules applied in recording and Section 9.3 CR Report No reporting accident statistics. 153 GRI G4 Content Index Disclosures on Management Approach Location in the report or explanation and Indicators by page/section/direct reply Omissions SOCIAL LABOUR PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK Material Aspect: Occupational health and safety G4-DMA Page 77 of the CR Report No Report whether there are workers who are G4-LA7 involved in occupational activities who have a high Section 9.3 CR Report No incidence or high risk of specific diseases. Report whether formal agreements (either local or global) with trade unions cover health and G4-LA8 safety. If yes, report the extent, as a percentage, Section 9.3 CR Report No to which various health and safety topics are covered by these agreements. Material Aspect: Training and education G4-DMA Page 77 of the CR Report No Report the average hours of training that the organisation’s employees have undertaken during G4-LA9 Section 9.4 CR Report No the reporting period, by gender and employee category. Report on the type and scope of programmes implemented and assistance provided to upgrade employee skills. G4-LA10 Report on the transition assistance programs Section 9.4 CR Report No provided to facilitate continued employability and the management of career endings resulting from retirement or termination of employment. Report the percentage of total employees by gender and by employee category who received G4-LA11 Section 9.4 CR Report No a regular performance and career development review during the reporting period. 154 Disclosures on Management Approach Location in the report or explanation and Indicators by page/section/direct reply Omissions SOCIAL LABOUR PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK Material Aspect: Diversity and equal opportunity G4-DMA Page 77 of the CR Report No Report the percentage of individuals within the organisation’s governance bodies in each of the following diversity categories: • Gender • Age group: under 30 years old, 30-50 years old, over 50 years old • Minority groups • Other indicators of diversity where relevant G4-LA12 Section 9.5 CR Report No Report the percentage of employees per employee category in each of the following diversity categories: • Gender • Age group: under 30 years old, 30-50 years old, over 50 years old • Minority groups • Other indicators of diversity where relevant Material Aspect: Equal remuneration for women and men G4-DMA Page 77 of the CR Report No Report the ratio of the basic salary and remuneration of women to men for each employee G4-LA13 category, by significant locations of operation. Section 9.5 CR Report No Report the definition used for ‘significant locations of operation’ Material Aspect: Supplier assessment for labour practices G4-DMA Page 77 of the CR Report No Report the percentage of new suppliers that were G4-LA14 Section 9.6 CR Report No screened using labour practices criteria. 155 GRI G4 Content Index Disclosures on Management Approach Location in the report or explanation and Indicators by page/section/direct reply Omissions SOCIAL LABOUR PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK Material Aspect: Supplier assessment for labour practices G4-DMA Page 77 of the CR Report No Report the number of suppliers subject to impact assessments for labour practices. Report the number of suppliers identified as having significant actual and potential negative impacts for labour practices. Report the significant actual and potential negative impacts for labour practices G4-LA15 Section 9.6 CR Report No identified in the supply chain. Report the percentage of suppliers identified as having significant actual and potential negative impacts for labour practices with which relationships were terminated as a result of assessment, and why. Material Aspect: Labour practices grievance mechanisms G4-DMA Page 77 of the CR Report No Report the total number of grievances about labour practices filed through formal grievance mechanisms during the reporting period. Of the identified grievances, report how many were: G4-LA16 • Addressed during the reporting period Section 9.5 CR Report No • Resolved during the reporting period • Report the total number of grievances about labour practices filed prior to the reporting period that were resolved during the reporting period. SOCIAL HUMAN RIGHTS Material Aspect: Investment G4-DMA Page 77 of the CR Report No Report the total number and percentage of significant investment agreements and contracts that include G4-HR1 human rights clauses or that underwent human Section 10.3 CR Report No rights screening. Report the definition of ‘significant investment agreements’ used by the organisation. 156 Disclosures on Management Approach Location in the report or explanation and Indicators by page/section/direct reply Omissions SOCIAL HUMAN RIGHTS Material Aspect: Investment G4-DMA Page 97 of the CR Report No Report the total number of hours in the reporting period devoted to training on human rights policies or procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations. G4-HR2 Section 10.2 CR Report No Report the percentage of employees in the reporting period trained in human rights policies or procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations. Material Aspect: Non-discrimination G4-DMA Page 77 of the CR Report No Report the total number of incidents of discrimination during the reporting period. Report the status of the incidents and the actions taken with reference to the following: • Incident reviewed by the organisation Section 9.5, 10.1, 10.2 G4-HR3 No • Remediation plans being implemented and 10.3 CR Report • Remediation plans have been implemented and results reviewed through routine internal management review processes • Incident no longer subject to action Material Aspect: Freedom of association and collective bargaining G4-DMA Page 77 of the CR Report No Report operations and suppliers in which employee rights to exercise freedom of association or collective bargaining may be violated or at significant risk either in terms of: • Type of operation (such as manufacturing plant) and supplier G4-HR4 Section 9.2 and 10.3 CR Report No • Countries or geographical areas with operations and suppliers considered at risk Report measures taken by the organisation in the reporting period intended to support rights to exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining. 157 GRI G4 Content Index Disclosures on Management Approach Location in the report or explanation and Indicators by page/section/direct reply Omissions SOCIAL HUMAN RIGHTS Material Aspect: Child labour G4-DMA Page 97 of the CR Report No Report operations and suppliers considered to have significant risk for incidents of: • Child labour • Young workers exposed to hazardous work Report operations and suppliers considered to have significant risk for incidents of child labour either in terms of: G4-HR5 Section 10.3 CR Report No • Type of operation (such as manufacturing plant) and supplier • Countries or geographical areas with operations and suppliers considered at risk. • Report measures taken by the organisation in the reporting period intended to contribute to the effective abolition of child labour. Material Aspect: Forced or compulsory labour G4-DMA Page 97 of the CR Report No Report operations and suppliers considered to have significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labour either in terms of: • Type of operation (such as manufacturing plant) and supplier G4-HR6 Section 10.3 CR Report No • Countries or geographical areas with operations and suppliers considered at risk Report measures taken by the organisation in the reporting period intended to contribute to the elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labour. Material Aspect: Security practices G4-DMA Page 97 of the CR Report No Report the percentage of security personnel who have received formal training in the organisation’s human rights policies or specific procedures and their G4-HR7 Section 10.2 CR Report No application to security. Report whether training requirements also apply to third party organisations providing security personnel. 158 Disclosures on Management Approach Location in the report or explanation and Indicators by page/section/direct reply Omissions SOCIAL HUMAN RIGHTS Material Aspect: Indigenous rights G4-DMA Page 97 of the CR Report No Report the total number of identified incidents of violations involving the rights of indigenous peoples during the reporting period. • Report the status of the incidents and the actions taken with reference to: Section 10.1, 10.2 G4-HR8 • Incident reviewed by the organisation and 10.3 CR Report. No • Remediation plans being implemented None have occurred • Remediation plans have been implemented and results reviewed through routine internal management review processes • Incident no longer subject to action Assessment Report the total number and percentage of operations that have been subject to human rights G4-HR9 Section 6.4, 6.5 and 10.3 CR Report No reviews or human rights impact assessments, by country. Material Aspect: Supplier human rights assessment G4-DMA Page 97 of the CR Report No Report the percentage of new suppliers that were Section 9.6, 10.1, 10.2 G4-HR10 No screened using human rights criteria. and 10.3 CR Report Report the number of suppliers subject to human rights impact assessments. Report the number of suppliers identified as having significant actual and potential negative human rights impacts. Report the significant actual and potential negative human rights impacts identified in the supply chain. G4-HR11 Report the percentage of suppliers identified as Section 10.3 CR Report No having significant actual and potential negative human rights impacts with which improvements were agreed upon as a result of assessment. Report the percentage of suppliers identified as having significant actual and potential negative human rights impacts with which relationships were terminated as a result of assessment, and why. 159 GRI G4 Content Index Disclosures on Management Approach Location in the report or explanation and Indicators by page/section/direct reply Omissions SOCIAL HUMAN RIGHTS Material Aspect: Human rights grievance mechanisms G4-DMA Page 97 of the CR Report No Report the total number of grievances about human rights impacts filed through formal grievance mechanisms during the reporting period. Of the identified grievances, report how many were: Section 10.1, 10.2 and 10.3 CR Report G4-HR12 • Addressed during the reporting period No None have occurred • Resolved during the reporting period. • Report the total number of grievances about human rights impacts filed prior to the reporting period that were resolved during the reporting period. SOCIAL SOCIETY Material Aspect: Local communities G4-DMA Page 103 of the CR Report No Report the percentage of operations with Section 11.1, 11.3, 11.4, 11.5, 11.6 G4-SO1 implemented local community engagement, impact No and 11.7 CR Report assessments, and development programmes. Report operations with significant actual and potential negative impacts on local communities, including: Section 11.1, 11.3, 11.4, 11.5, 11.6 G4-SO2 No • The location of the operations and 11.7 CR Report • The significant actual and potential negative impacts of operations. Material Aspect: Anti-corruption G4-DMA Page 103 of the CR Report No Report the total number and percentage of operations assessed for risks related to corruption. G4-SO3 Section 11.3 CR Report No Report the significant risks related to corruption identified through the risk assessment. 160 Disclosures on Management Approach Location in the report or explanation and Indicators by page/section/direct reply Omissions SOCIAL SOCIETY Material Aspect: Anti-corruption G4-DMA Page 103 of the CR Report No Report the total number and percentage of governance body members that the organisation’s anti-corruption policies and procedures have been communicated to, broken down by region. Report the total number and percentage of employees that the organisation’s anti-corruption policies and procedures have been communicated to, broken down by employee category and region. Report the total number and percentage of business G4-SO4 Section 11.3 CR Report No partners that the organisation’s anti-corruption policies and procedures have been communicated to, broken down by type of business partner and region. Report the total number and percentage of governance body members that have received training on anticorruption, broken down by region. Report the total number and percentage of employees that have received training on anti-corruption, broken down by employee category and region. Report the total number and nature of confirmed incidents of corruption. Report the total number of confirmed incidents in which employees were dismissed or disciplined for corruption. Report the total number of confirmed incidents when contracts with G4-SO5 business partners were terminated or not renewed due Section 11.3 CR Report No to violations related to corruption. Report public legal cases regarding corruption brought against the organisation or its employees during the reporting period and the outcomes of such cases. Material Aspect: Public policy G4-DMA Page 103 of the CR Report No Report the total monetary value of financial and in-kind political contributions made directly and indirectly by G4-SO6 the organisation by country and recipient/beneficiary. Section 11.4 CR Report No Report how the monetary value of in-kind contributions was estimated, if applicable. 161 GRI G4 Content Index Disclosures on Management Approach Location in the report or explanation and Indicators by page/section/direct reply Omissions SOCIAL SOCIETY Material Aspect: Anti-competitive behaviour G4-DMA Page 103 of the CR Report No Report the total number of legal actions pending or completed during the reporting period regarding anti-competitive behaviour and violations of anti-trust and G4-SO7 monopoly legislation in which the organisation has been Section 11.5 CR Report No identified as a participant. Report the main outcomes of completed legal actions, including any decisions or judgements. Material Aspect: Compliance G4-DMA Page 103 of the CR Report No Report significant fines and non-monetary sanctions in terms of: • Total monetary value of significant fines • Total number of non-monetary sanctions • Cases brought through dispute resolution G4-SO8 mechanisms. Section 11.5 CR Report No If the organisation has not identified any non-compliance with laws or regulations, a brief statement of this fact is sufficient. Report the context against which significant fines and non-monetary sanctions were incurred. Material Aspect: Worker assessment for impacts on society G4-DMA Page 97 of the CR Report No Report the percentage of new suppliers that were G4-SO9 Section 10.3 CR Report No screened using criteria for impacts on society. Report the number of suppliers subject to assessments for impacts on society. Report the number of suppliers identified as having significant actual and potential negative impacts on society. Report the significant actual and potential negative impacts on society identified in the supply chain. Report the percentage G4-SO10 of suppliers identified as having significant actual Section 10.3 CR Report No and potential negative impacts on society with which improvements were agreed upon as a result of assessment. Report the percentage of suppliers identified as having significant actual and potential negative impacts on society with which relationships were terminated as a result of assessment, and why. 162 Disclosures on Management Approach Location in the report or explanation and Indicators by page/section/direct reply Omissions SOCIAL SOCIETY Material Aspect: Grievance mechanisms for impacts on society G4-DMA Page 103 of the CR Report No Report the total number of grievances about impacts on society filed through formal grievance mechanisms during the reporting period. Of the identified grievances, report how many were: Section 11.1, 11.3, 11.4, 11.5, 11.6 G4-SO11 • Addressed during the reporting period No and 11.7 CR Report • Resolved during the reporting period. Report the total number of grievances about impacts on society filed prior to the reporting period that were resolved during the reporting period. SOCIAL PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY Material Aspect: Customer health and safety G4-DMA Page 119 of the CR Report No Report the percentage of significant product and service Section 12.1, 12.2, 12.3, 12.4 G4-PR1 categories for which health and safety impacts are No and 12.5 CR Report assessed for improvement. Report the total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning the health and safety impacts of products and services within the reporting period, by: • Incidents of non-compliance with regulations resulting in a fine or penalty Section 12.3, 12.4, 12.5 G4-PR2 No • Incidents of non-compliance with regulations and 12.6 CR Report resulting in a warning • Incidents of non-compliance with voluntary codes If the organisation has not identified any non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes, a brief statement of this fact is sufficient. 163 GRI G4 Content Index Disclosures on Management Approach Location in the report or explanation and Indicators by page/section/direct reply Omissions SOCIAL PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY Material Aspect: Product and service labelling G4-DMA Page 65 of the CR Report No Report whether the following product information is required by the organisation’s procedures for product information and labelling: • The sourcing of components of the product or service • Content, particularly with regard to substances that Section 8.1 and 12.2 CR Report might produce an environmental or social impact G4-PR3 The on board catering service is No • Safe use of the product or service managed by specific suppliers • Disposal of the product and environmental/social impacts • Others (explain) Report the percentage of significant product or service categories covered by and assessed for compliance with such procedures. Report the total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning product and service information and labelling, by: G4-PR4 • Incidents of non-compliance with regulations Section 11.7 CR Report No resulting in a fine or penalty • Incidents of non-compliance with regulations resulting in a warning • Incidents of non-compliance with voluntary codes Report the results or key conclusions of customer satisfaction surveys (based on statistically relevant sample sizes) conducted in the reporting period G4-PR5 relating to information about: Section 12.3, 12.4 and 12.5 CR Report No • The organisation as a whole • A major product or service category • Significant locations of operation 164 Disclosures on Management Approach Location in the report or explanation and Indicators by page/section/direct reply Omissions SOCIAL PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY Material Aspect: Marketing communications G4-DMA Page 119 of the CR Report No Report whether the organisation sells products that are: • Banned in certain markets Iberia does not operated in locations G4-PR6 • The subject of stakeholder questions or public debate subject to public debate therefore No Report how the organisation has responded to no questions have arisen questions or concerns regarding these products. • Report the total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship, by: G4-PR7 • Incidents of non-compliance with regulations resulting Section 12.8 CR Report No in a fine or penalty • Incidents of non-compliance with regulations resulting in a warning • Incidents of non-compliance with voluntary codes Material Aspect: Customer privacy G4-DMA Page 119 of the CR Report No Report the total number of substantiated complaints received concerning breaches of customer privacy, categorised by: • Complaints received from outside parties and substantiated by the organisation G4-PR8 • Complaints from regulatory bodies Section 12.6 CR Report No Report the total number of identified leaks, thefts, or losses of customer data. If the organisation has not identified any substantiated complaints, a brief statement of this fact is sufficient. Material Aspect: Compliance G4-DMA Page 119 of the CR Report No Report the total monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations concerning the provision and use of products and services. G4-PR9 Section 12.4 CR Report No If the organisation has not identified any non-compliance with laws or regulations, a brief statement of this fact is sufficient. 165 IBERIA, L.A.E., S.A. OPERADORA, SOCIEDAD UNIPERSONAL Calle Martínez Villergas, 49 28027, Madrid Telephone 901 111 500
