REPORT 2016 Education as a legacy About to celebrate its 100th anniversary, Votorantim elects education as its great legacy for future generations 16 Strength of Governance, Risk, Centers of the Portfolio and Compliance Excellence Diversity of portfolio and financial Introduction of the new Code New system to prevent discipline help mitigate the of Conduct and review of the losses expands the control challenges imposed by the political anticorruption policy are the over processes and increases scenario and downturn of the highlights in the process to improve productivity economy in Brazil risk management and compliance 51  21 29 ﻿ Votorantim S.A Introduction The 2016 Votorantim S.A. Report presents the main activities and results of the holding Votorantim S.A. and of the investee companies in the period, including financial and non-financial information pertaining to the main indicators monitored by the company. Content development considered the principles and guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), G4 version, of the International Integrated Report Council (IIRC), of the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC), and of the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD). Detailed information regarding the investee companies (Votorantim Cimentos, Votorantim Metais, Companhia Brasileira de Alumínio, Votorantim Siderurgia, Votorantim Energia, Fibria, Citrosuco, and Banco Votorantim) can be found in the annual reports of each company. The PDF version of this report can be accessed at www.votorantim.com/relatorio and includes the Consolidated Financial Statements of the holding company Votorantim S.A., as well as the Content Index with all GRI indicators. To help us continue advancing in our reporting process and in our management, send your feedback, suggestions and comments to contato@votorantim.com. GRI Indicators Relatório Principais destaques e indicadores em 2016 Principais destaques e indicadores em 2016 Relatório $ Receita líquida Novo Código R$ 15,9 bilhões Le Legado Verdes Inovação Gestão ambiental R$ 26,7 bilhões de Conduta DVA – Distribuição do Cerrado Criação da Rede da Inovação, que reúne representantes R$ 591,5 milhões investidos pela holding e pelas 9% menor em relação a 2015 do Valor Adicionado CBA e Reservas Votorantim Implementação do documento da Votorantim S.A. e de oito empresas investidas, após ampla revisão, que contou assinam parceria com o Governo assina empresas investidas com a sendo 44% em capex com a participação de todas as 9% Goiás criando uma nova de G missão de desenvolver iniciativas e 56% em opex empresas investidas. O trabalho REMUNERAÇÃO reserva privada 27% CAPITAL PRÓPRIO em conjunto e potencializar a $ também incluiu a divulgação e PESSOAL E ENCARGOS 44% busca por sinergias. treinamento de empregados SOCIAIS REMUNERAÇÃO Ebitda ajustado 22% DE CAPITAL DE TERCEIROS R$ 4,3 bilhões IMPOSTOS, TAXAS 38% menor em relação a 2015 E CONTRIBUIÇÕES Centros de Clima excelência O legado Organizacional Política Desenvolvimento de um novo Dese da educação 83% Anticorrupção sistem sistema de prevenção de perdas, com fofoco nas áreas de assurance Celebração dos 100 anos da Índice de favorabilidade dos empregados da holding atinge Revisão da política teve o Votorantim, em 2018, motivou e co compliance, com o objetivo 83% e companhia é incluída Investimento objetivo de esclarecer situações que expõem os empregados Energia eólica de ampliar am o controle sobre os a empresa a eleger a educação como seu principal legado para entre As melhores empresas (capex) da holding e das empresas Início da construção dos sete processos a sociedade no longo prazo, para você trabalhar, da revista Você S/A. R$ 3,0 bilhões investidas a situações de desvio parques eólicos no Piauí, com por meio de ações estruturadas 6% menor em relação a 2015 de conduta. Em 2016, também investimento total previsto do programa Parceria houve a implementação de de R$ 1,1 bilhão e início de Votorantim pela Educação aplicativo que registra os operação para 2018 (PVE), do Instituto Votorantim encontros de executivos com representantes do poder público D Desenvolvimento e Academia imobiliário Votorantim Elaboração do primeiro projeto Elabo Revisão da universidade de longo prazo na área de corporativa da Votorantim S.A, Legado das Águass desen desenvolvimento imobiliário, de Investimentos com o objetivo de fortalecer e Sequenciamento do genoma dee acord com as diretrizes de um acordo instrumento instru previsto no Plano social dar suporte à cultura de alta performance na organização 50 espécies de Mata Atlântica, Total de R$ 108 milhões resultando no maior banco de Diretor Direto de São Paulo para áreas investidos em 2016 dados genéticos do Bioma. p com potencial de transformação na cidade 6 Relatório Anual 2016 {G4-56, G4-EC1, G4-EN13, G4-EN18, G4-EN5, G4-SO1} {G4-9} Relatório Anual 2016 7 GRI indicators are located in the footers of the pages where the topics are covered. Interactive PDF Click the links, index items, and {GRI INDICATORS} in the footer to navigate through the report and access additional information. Annual Report 2016 1 Votorantim S.A Contents Contents Votorantim S.A VALUE PEOPLE AND MESSAGE FROM THE MANAGEMENT Highlights Ready for the future of the year 4 6 CREATION CULTURE CENTERS OF EXCELLENCE DEVELOPMENT Benchmark performance Focus on development VOTORANTIM S.A. LONG-TERM 29 45 BUSINESSES I N S T I T U TO VOTO R A N T I M AT T R A C T I O N A N D R E T E N T I O N BUSINESS MODEL Social strategies Young Talent Focused on public management, eduTallent attraction initiatives and partnerships with universiPortfolio Management A Defined Path cation, and other aspects that are releties and junior companies already fill 12% of the job ope8 vant to society, the Votorantim Institute nings at Votorantim S.A. STRATEGIC PARTNERS KEY ACTIVITIES VALUE PROPOSITION COMMUNICATION, RELATIONSHIP AND ENGAGEMENT STAKEHOLDERS programs contribute to creating shared 47 I N V E S T E E C O M PA N I E S ▶ Companies ▶ Instituto Votorantim ▶ Monitoring and influence on investee ▶ Consistently generate superior financial ▶ Governance of the companies (CAs and ▶ Shareholders ▶ Investee company value between the investee companies companies returns with a Committees and the surrounding communities Long-Term Businesses ▶ Financial Community ▶ VSA people ▶ Consulting companies and specialists ▶ Portfolio management ▶ Risk management positive social and environmental impact through the significant ▶ Forums of influence in the “cloud” ▶ Financial community ENGAGEMENT ▶ Society 32 ▶ Communication and The importance ▶ Universities and junior ▶ Business development influence over investee companies internal engagement companies ▶ Execution of transactions ▶ Relations with investors ▶ Press ▶ People development and the financial ▶ Associations ▶ Corporate brand community of work environmet management ▶ Press ▶ Social Network R E S E RVA S VOTO R A N T I M Biodiversity KEY RESOURCES Employee satisfaction, measured in the annual engagement ▶ People as a business ▶ Brand  ▶ Centers of Excellence ▶ Capital survey, reflects the improve12 COST REVENUE 38 ment of personnel manageSTRUCTURE MODEL ment within Votorantim S.A. and guides action and impro▶ People ▶ Dividends of the investee companies ▶ Infrastructure ▶ Value creation in the investments R E A L E S TAT E D E V E LO P M E N T GOVERNANCE. RISKS AND ▶ Cost of Capital vement plans Urban planning 48 15 40 COMPLIANCE 1 0 0 Y E A R S O F VOTO R A N T I M I N N O V AT I O N STRUCTURE Education as a Legacy Invitation to innovate The role of each of us Constantly evolving companies require a solid governance structure, About to celebrate 100 years of activity, Votorantim elects education as its main legacy to society. 41 PORTFOLIO with different instances acting together in strategic decision-making 16 FINANCIAL Highlights for the period and the main projects and actions 21 MANAGEMENT in the social and environmental area. An overview of the eight investee companies of Votorantim S.A. COMPLIANCE AND ANTICORRUPTION POLICY Responsible autonomy Challenges for the Future Several aspects influence the activities of VotoranPERFORMANCE 57 tim S.A.. See the most important ones. 24 MARKET CONTEXT ABOUT THE REPORT  74 18 Strength of the Portfolio G R I I N D I C ATO R S  77 51 INDEPENDENT AUDIT 111 2 Annual Report 2016 Annual Report 2016 3 Report Message from the Management Message from the Management Report READY FOR THE FUTURE assessments by 35%, on average, In Brazil, we had the impeachment our confidence in the future. Thecompared with other similar cities of the President of the country, adse include the expansion of Fibria’s in Brazil. vances in the fight against corruppulp plant in the state of Mato This is a long-term commitment, tion, and the most severe economic Grosso do Sul, new cement plants Votorantim will celebrate its 100th anniversary The concept of sustainability since the PVE has an average duracrisis in the country’s history, with in the United States and Turkey, the in 2018. Having started as a textile plant was developed nearly 30 years ago, tion of four years in each municipaa drop in GDP of nearly 8% in the extension of the useful life of our when a UN commission published lity in order to ensure the continuilast three years. As a result of this zinc mines in Brazil and Peru, and in the State of São Paulo, the company has the report “Our Common Future,” in ty of the achievements. Votorantim scenario, there was an increase in the beginning of the construction transformed itself and expanded its company which sustainable development was understands that quality education unemployment among the econoof our first wind farms in the state portfolio – it currently employs 44,000 defined as a way to meet the needs is the basis of a fairer and more mically active population, restricted of Piauí. The company’s internatiopeople and operates in 23 countries. of present generations without cominclusive society, as it builds more access to credit, and a sharp decline nalization process, initiated in 2001, promising the ability of future geconscious citizens, and prepares in several sectors of the economy, and the diversification of its busiT nerations to satisfy their own needs. future generations of more qualidirectly affecting our businesses in nesses enabled it to face the turhroughout the 20th century, in investee companies, focused its Since then, sustainability has become fied professionals, thereby helping the domestic market. moil and mitigate impacts from the Votorantim’s journey was attention on portfolio management part of the public debate. improve the business environment In the international scenario, downturn in the Brazilian market. closely linked to Brazil’s industrialiand the operation of three solution While revisiting its history, Votoand the country’s competitiveness. events such as the UK’s decision to Throughout our history, we have zation and development. Over the centers in the areas of information terantim identified several moments As it approaches its centennial, exit the European Union and the learned that business has cycles and past 20 years, the company has been chnology; shared services in finance, in which it showed concern for this Votorantim seeks to renew itself for result of the presidential election that it is critical to make portfolio enhancing its governance model in human resources and accounting; and aspect, long before it was incorpothe challenges of an increasingly voin the United States brought about decisions with a long-term vision. an ongoing process that has resulreal estate asset management. The inrated in its corporate jargon. The latile, complex, ambiguous, and unnew perspectives. We also witnesWe have demonstrated we are able ted in a revitalized structure which vestee companies have gained more company became signatory to the certain world. In 2016, we launched sed the escalation of the conflict in to respond to this challenge. We are maintained family control. Shareholautonomy to develop their strategies, UN Global Compact and defined “18.18”, a company transformation Syria and the refugee crisis, as well overcoming the current crisis with ders migrated from management to advisory committees were created, streamlined production as one of its initiative based on the major aspects as concerns about the soundness of hard work, planning, and resilience. the Boards; company values were and independent members joined the management principles, respecting that will affect or are already transeconomic growth. Our values, our beliefs, our history, rein-forced; best management pracBoards of Directors of the companies the legitimate demands of society. forming the business environment. In this environment, Votorantim and our vision for the future have tices were identified and synergies and Votorantim S.A. To mark the passing of its cenThe company’s entire senior manapaid special attention to its finanguided our day-to-day decisions were captured; sustainability prinThe legacy of this journey of tennial, Votorantim, which has gement almost 400 L interacts with cial metrics in order to properly and allowed Votorantim to remain ciples were incorporated into our almost 100 years inspires new gealways been committed to building references, content and experiences, cope with this period. The planning sound and enterprising, with the strategy; and the Votorantim Instinerations and the people who work a better future, chose to focus its and is encouraged to create specific process and the long-term vision ability to reinvent itself and contitute was created in order to guide at Votorantim to face the challenefforts on Education. As of 2017, action plans for each company. We allowed the company to prepare nuously grow and excel. the company’s private social investges expected for the coming years: the company will expand its Parcebelieve that people are still our main for a more challenging scenario, ments, in line with the strategy of climate change, geopolitical issues, ria Votorantim pela Educação PVE competitive advantage. and the necessary adjustments Raul Calfat, Chairman of the Board each company in the portfolio. and increasingly less predictable (Votorantim Partnership for EducaVotorantim’s planned investwere made to the operations of our of Directors of Votorantim S.A. In the last three years, the company high-impact events. To face these tion) program, which has proved ments in education and developinvestee companies before the crisis has accelerated this transformation challenges, Votorantim is consto be very effective in improving ment have come at a particularly escalated so that our business could João Miranda, process. The ownership structure was tantly improving its business mapublic education in Brazil, given challenging time for its companies. remain competitive. CEO of Votorantim S.A. simplified and Votorantim S.A., the nagement, with great attention to that participating municipalities 2016 was fraught with uncertainties The planned investments were holding company that holds interests social and environmental issues. increased their grades on official in the Brazilian and global scenario. maintained as a demonstration of 4 Annual Report 2016 {G4-1, G4-6} {G4-1} Annual Report 2016 5 Report Main highlights and indicators in 2016 Main highlights and indicators in 2016 Report $ Net revenue New Code BRL 13.8 billion Legado Verdes Innovation Environmental BRL 26.7 billion of Conduct VAS Value Added Statement do Cerrado Creation of the Innovation Network, which brings together management 9% less than in 2015 Implementation of the document CBA and Reservas Votorantim BRL 583,6 million invested 17.3 20.8 13.8 BRL billion enter into a partnership with the representatives from Votorantim by the holding company and after extensive revision, with S.A. and eight investee the participation of all investee 4.6 Góias State Government in order Votorantim companies, of which to create a new private reserve companies with the mission of 44% in CAPEX and companies. The work also 4.1 developing joint initiatives and 6.0 56% in OPEX $ salaries and included the communication of 4.4 social charges strengthening the pursuit of 5.6 the New Code of Conduct and Taxes, synergies. Adjusted EBITDA 3.5 fees and training of employees. 9.8 contributions 6.0 7.1 Remuneration BRL 4.3 billion of third-party 38% less than in 2015 capital Centers of 1.7 0.4 -1.3 Remuneration of equity Excellence Organizational 2014 2015 2016 Development of a new loss The Education Climate 83% Anti-corruption prevention system, focusing on Legacy The favorability rating among policy assurance and compliance, with the aim of increasing control Votorantim’s 100th anniversary, employees of the holding company reached 83%, and the Investment The goal of the policy revision was to clarify situations that Wind power over processes. in 2018, motivated the company to choose education as its main company is included in The Best (Capex) expose the employees of Beginning of the construction of long-term legacy for society, Companies to Work for list, of the magazine Você S/A. BRL 3.0 billion the holding company and through structured actions of the seven wind farms in Piauí, 6% less than in 2015 investee companies to potential the Votorantim Partnership with total planned investments misconduct. In 2016, there was for Education (PVE) of BRL 1.1 billion and start of also the launch of an app that program, promoted by the operations in 2018. registers meetings between Real estate Votorantim Institute. Votorantim executives and public authorities. development Academy Creation of the first longterm project in real estate Restructuring of Votorantim development, in accordance with S.A.´s corporate university, in Legado das Águas the guidelines of the São Paulo Master Plan for areas with Social Investment order to strengthen and support a high-performance culture with Genome sequencing of 50 in the organization. species native to the Atlantic potential for transformation More than BRL 108 million Rainforest created the largest in the city. was invested in 2016 genetic database of this biome. 6 Annual Report 2016 {G4-56, G4-EC1, G4-EN13, G4-EN18, G4-EN5, G4-SO1} {G4-9} Annual Report 2016 7 Portfolio Management Votorantim S.A Votorantim S.A. PORTFOLIO cement, polymetals, aluminum, long steel, energy, pulp, orange systems and processes designed to generate gains in scale and VOTORANTIM S.A. and finance. With headquarters increase the organization’s proIN NUMBERS in the city of São Paulo, Votoductivity, operational stability, MANAGEMENT rantim S.A. recorded net reveand business competitiveness nue of BRL 26.7 billion in 2016, a result that consolidated the (read more on page 29). In the social area, the Vo882 employees performance of the business torantim Institute proposes investments in the period. The structure of the holding and conducts private social investment programs. With 41% men and company also features three social technologies that impact 59% women Votorantim S.A. works to consistently for defining and developing company-wide centers of excommunities, the Institute ofgenerate superior financial returns with a positive social and environmental the business portfolio, in addition to contributing to the cellence that seek to ensure competitiveness through admifers investee companies opportunities for synergy between $ 8 investee companies development of leaders and nistrative and financial solutions society and business. impact by exerting a significant caring for the integrity of the for the investee companies: the In 2015, the company creinfluence on its investee companies. corporate brand. Shared Solutions Center (CSC), ated Reservas Votorantim, with 3 centers of excellence Its value proposition is to gethe Information Technology the mission of transforming V nerate superior financial returns Competence Center (CCTI) natural and cultural assets into otorantim S.A. is a of the Votorantim companies. for its investments, with positive and the Real Estate Solutions sustainable businesses capable private equity organiControlled by the Ermírio de social and environmental imCenter (CSI). These centers exof conserving biodiversity and zation, the holding company Moraes family, it is responsible pacts, working in the areas of cel in developing management generating shared value. 8 Annual Report 2016 {G4-9} {G4-10, G4-17} Annual Report 2016 9 Votorantim S.A Portfolio Management Portfolio Management Votorantim S.A Responsible for Legado das Águas, an area with 31,000 consolidate Votorantim, over time, as one of the largest buAs it approaches its centennial, the corporation reaffirms VOTORANTIM’S IDENTITY ha in the state of São Paulo, siness groups in Brazil, gaining its long-term vision and contiin February 2017, the Institute a prominent leading position nues to invest in creating value Votorantim’s identity is defined by a set of values and beliefs that guide the performance of all the people working assumed the management of a in the various sectors in whifor its various stakeholders, so for the holding company and the investee companies. new reserve in the state of Góch it operates. In almost one that it may follow the evolution, ias, Legado Verdes do Cerrado, hundred years of activity, to be the changes, and the challenges OUR VALUES which belongs to Companhia completed in 2018, the orgaof the business environment, in Brasileira de Alumínio, and nization has contributed to the an increasingly more volatile comprises an area of 32,000 ha country’s development and has and dynamic world. ▼ OUNDNESS – to seek sustainable growth and generate value (read more on page 39). This vision has helped built a brand that is now present on five continents. THICS – to operate responsibly and with transparency ESPECT – to respect people and willingness to learn NTREPRENEURSHIP – to grow with courage to accomplish, innovate, and invest NITY – the whole is stronger OUR BELIEFS CULTIVATING TALENTS We believe OPEN DIALOGUE We believe that a in and trust people, so we invest time and resources in trusted environment provides open dialogue and space cultivating our talents. to speak and be heard, where diverse opinions build better solutions. MERITOCRACY We believe that people are unique, and therefore, deserve to be valued fairly ALLIANCE We believe that our success is and according to their actions. the result of joint building, strengthened by genuine relationships and alliances in which everyone wins. EXCELLENCE We believe that we can always do more and better, overcoming challenges with SENSE OF OWNERSHIP We believe discipline, humility, and simplicity. in those who take responsibility, work with passion, and lead by example, celebrating achievements and transforming mistakes into learning. PRAGMATISM We believe that it is essential to dedicate efforts to what is important, with objectiveness and without losing the big picture and vision for the future. 10 Annual Report 2016 {G4-56} Annual Report 2016 11 Votorantim S.A Portfolio Management Portfolio Management Votorantim S.A Investee companies V otorantim is present in core industry sectors through seven investee companies, in addition to operating in the financial segment with Banco Votorantim. Together, these businesses employ 44,000 people worldwide and total over 560 operating units located in 23 countries in five continents.▼ Industry Sector: Industry Sector: Industry Sector: Industry Sector: Cement, Special zinc alloys Generation and trading Pulp aggregates, and its byproducts of electricity concrete, and mortar 13,733 Presence in 352 5,561 Presence in 16 486 Presence in 34 4,309 Presence in 17 employees 14 countries operating units employees 7 countries operating units employees 8 Brazilian states operating units employees 4 countries operating units Industry Sector: Industry Sector: Industry Sector: Sector: Aluminum and nickel Long steel Orange juice Wholesale banking, asset management, and retail 5,203 Presence in 9 4,908 Presence in 9 5,388 Presence in 47 4,045 Presence in 81 employees 3 Brazilian states operating units employees 3 countries operating units employees 7 countries operating units employees 4 countries Units 12 Annual Report 2016 {G4-4, G4-6, G4-8, G4-9} {G4-4, G4-6, G4-8, G4-9} Annual Report 2016 13 Business model Long-Term Businesses DEFINED PATH Votorantim S.A.´s value proposition is to consistently generate superior financial returns with a positive social and environmental impact. V otorantim S.A. described its business model through the Canvas methodology; a tool that Developed by leadership and subsequently presented and discussed with employees of the holding necessary resources for the company to generate value and achieve its goals, indicating its main partners allows for the development of a vicompany, Canvas explains in a simand suppliers, key activities and necsual map with the core elements that ple manner the role of the portfolio essary resources, relationships, cost translate the priorities and responsimanager for the entire organization. structure and sources of income, bilities of the company. The chart also shows the paths and among other aspects. ▼ STRATEGIC KEY VALUE COMMUNICATION, RELATIONSHIP AND STAKEHOLDERS PARTNERS ACTIVITIES PROPOSITION ENGAGEMENT ▶▶ Companies ▶▶ Monitoring and ▶▶ Consistently generate ▶▶ Governance of the ▶▶ Shareholders ▶▶ Instituto Votorantim influence on investee superior financial companies (Executive ▶▶ Investee company companies returns with a Boards and Committees) ▶▶ Financial Community positive social and ▶▶ Votorantim S.A. ▶▶ Portfolio management ▶▶ Forums of influence in employees ▶▶ Consulting companies environmental impact the “cloud” and specialists ▶▶ Risk management ▶▶ Financial community through the significant ▶▶ Business development ▶▶ Communication and ▶▶ Universities and junior influence over investee ▶▶ Society companies internal engagement companies ▶▶ Execution of transactions ▶▶ Relations with investors ▶▶ Press ▶▶ People development and the financial ▶▶ Associations ▶▶ Corporate brand community management ▶▶ Press ▶▶ Social Network KEY RESOURCES ▶▶ People Long-Term ▶▶ Brand ▶▶ Centers of Excellence ▶▶ Capital COST REVENUE Businesses STRUCTURE MODEL ▶▶ People ▶▶ Dividends of the investee companies ▶▶ Infrastructure ▶▶ Value creation in the investments ▶▶ Cost of Capital 14 Annual Report 2016 Annual Report 2016 15 Long-Term Businesses 100 years of Votorantim 100 years of Votorantim Long-Term Businesses EDUCATION issues that will have impact AS A LEGACY on the future, through five major aspects: High Performance Culture, Emerging Technologies and new forms of consumption, Business Design, Conscious Transformation, and a Global Mindset. The idea is to raise awareness among the executives and managers concerning the changes that have been occurring in society, seeking a set of solutions that guarantee the THE FIVE MOVEMENTS OF 18.18 company’s continuity in a world [2016 Movements] HIGH PERFORMANCE CULTURE How organizations have adapted to the challenges of today: that is quickly changing. ▶▶ promoting differentiated environments Created in 2016, the 18.18 program relies on several ▶▶ encouraging autonomy and innovative behavior actions to broaden the con▶▶ creating and supporting complex structures nection of people with trends ▶▶ developing new labor models; and movements that influence ▶▶ and inspirational governance; the future of organizations, to How to foster leadership development through the concepts of meritocracy, empathy, selfprepare leaders and teams to management, and transparency? implement models compatible with emerging demands, [2017 Movements] EMERGING TECHNOLOGIES AND NEW FORMS OF to promote the alignment CONSUMPTION About to celebrate 100 years of activity, We intend to involve all employebetween purpose and vision What are the impacts of technological developments and business models in companies and in our lives? Votorantim elects education as its main es in the aspect of education, from for the future, and stimulate those who work directly with the PVE environments, behaviors and [Upcoming movements] legacy to society and creates a program that to those who can participate more processes that strengthen the BUSINESS DESIGN involves all its employees in the company’s actively in the educational evolution collective intelligence among How to foster the creation, (re) design, or incorporation of business models with potential to modernization of their children and other family different businesses and multidisrupt the market, for: members. To this end, an internal ple generations. ▶▶ Innovative proposals for products, services, and technologies V mobilization campaign will be initiaTo achieve these goals, the ▶▶ channels/market access otorantim will celebrate its development of Brazil. ted, whose main channel will be an program offers extensive con▶▶ marketing and client relations 100th year in 2018 and the Accordingly, through the Votoranelectronic platform that will gather tent to update and deepen parproximity of its centennial motivated tim Partnership for Education (PVE), a content about education, where emticipants’ knowledge gatheCONSCIOUS TRANSFORMATION the company to reflect on the legacy program managed by the Votorantim ployees may interact with this aspect. red in an exclusive portal as ▶▶ How to promote individual changes through the expansion of awareness and the new the company intends to leave to BraInstitute (read more on page 37) well as conferences, meetings, way of viewing the organization and the dynamics of systems? zilian society. After broad consultawhich works to elevate the quality of dialogues, exploratory research ▶▶ What are the possible business models in which personal and collective values contribute tion, which included the participation education, Votorantim has established Program 18.18 and other initiatives. to the growth and sustainability of the business? of shareholders and employees, the that the investment will be substanWhat will Votorantim be like in The objective is for the GLOBAL MINDSET holding company chose education as tially expanded so that more municithe next 100 years? With its upcoideas and initiatives generated ▶▶ How to encourage people to be prepared, motivated and active with global thinking? the main cause of this celebration, bepalities can benefit from this Program. ming centennial, Votorantim asked during the program to influ▶▶ What are the attitudes and practices appropriate to the context of the world in which lieving that improvement in this field By 2017, we expect to reach the mark its employees this question in order ence the planning and practicwe live? is instrumental for the sustainable of 50 Brazilian cities served. to stimulate reflection on current es at Votorantim. ▼ 16 Annual Report 2016 {G4-24, G4-26, G4-27} Annual Report 2016 17 Long-Term Businesses Management Management Long-Term Businesses CHALLENGES FOR THE FUTURE Several aspects influence the activities of Votorantim S.A.; see the most important ones Innovation in order to create solutions that Diversity There are several ongoing iniaccompany the evolution and In December 2016, only 15.5% tiatives in our investee compamarket needs in general. To this of leadership positions at our Business environment competitive, several plans have decision-making contribute nies that support innovation in end, important actions are uninvestee companies and the The major challenge for Votobeen implemented in every to the company’s resilience, order to raise business competderway, such as the strengthholding company were held rantim S.A. and its investee business. Operational excellence especially in times of crisis. itiveness, overcome challenges, ening of a specific working by women. In this sense, the companies in recent year relates and strict cost management are Votorantim S.A. maintains an enhance processes and develop group for this purpose, which effort has mainly occurred to the macroeconomic scenario, among the most important, active portfolio management, products, or even improve manbrings together professionals when joining the company. In especially in Brazil. Votorantim’s but they are not the only plans. attentive to the increasingly agement. There are examples from the holding company and the Potenciar Program, which management model yielded There are also initiatives aimed at faster changes in the business of environmental, social, and the investee companies (read integrates high-potential trainbetter results than most corpoimproving processes and specific environment. To guarantee the operational innovation that more about this on page ees and young employees and rations, despite the exchange strategies for the industry sector organization’s continuity over also provide financial benefits 41). Innovation will also be inworks to prepare future leadvariation and volatility of comof each company. the next 100 years, it will be and gains in productivity. At the strumental for Votorantim S.A. ers, we have the following modity prices, which are factors necessary to advance the portholding company, however, the to remain competitive in the ratio: among trainees, 66% that directly impact the producfolio in order to face transforgreat challenge is to continue long term, stay connected to are men and 34% are women; tion and operation of the investPortfolio Management mations in market, as well as to to foster, through governance, macro trends, and be prepared among interns, 45% are men ee companies. To cope with the Portfolio diversification, the new demands and necessia culture of innovation and apto create value and meet the and 55% are women.▼ economic recession and remain planning, and assertive ties of society in general. ply this culture to the business, future demands of society. 18 Annual Report 2016 {G4-LA12} Annual Report 2016 19 Structure Governance, Risks, and Compliance Governance, THE ROLE Risks, and OF EACH OF US Compliance Constantly evolving companies require a solid governance structure, with different instances acting together in strategic decision-making the company’s Board of Directors. At Fibria, a publicly held company that is a member of BM&FBOVESPA’s Novo Mercado, the holding company holds a 29.42% stake. Banco I Votorantim has been sharing n recent years, Votorantim by executives and members shareholding control with BanS.A. implemented a goverof Votorantim S.A. Board of co do Brasil (BB) since 2009, nance model that consolidated Directors, and independent when BB acquired 50% of the the holding company in the members. institution’s capital stock. instance of monitoring and influence upon its investee companies, responsible for defining strategic and portfolio A HEJOASSU macro-guidelines. Votorantim S.A. is controlled by Hejoassu, a holding company that is formed The highest body of this by 12 members involving the four branches of the Ermírio de Moraes family, framework is the Board of with 25% interest each. From Hejoassu comes the values, principles, and Directors of Votorantim S.A., comprised of 12 members, and strategies that permeate Votorantim whose chairman is Raul Calfat, who took office in 2014. Eight members are a part of the ErIn order to more adequately Votorantim Metais mírio de Moraes family. Three reflect business operations, VoBy June 2016, three busiothers are independent board torantim Industrial S.A. merged nesses were managed under members. with its parent company Votothe name Votorantim Metais: The investee companies rantim Participações (VPAR) on zinc, nickel, and aluminum. have their own Board of DiJanuary 1, 2016, and changed After the segregation of these rectors and are responsible for its corporate name to Votoranoperations, Votorantim Metais operations and conducting butim S.A.. concentrated its operations siness and for defining multiyeAt Citrosuco, Votorantim on mining and metallurgy and ar strategic planning and for S.A. divides shareholding conother products associated with the conduction of investments trol with the Fischer Group, with these processes, benefiting required to achieve their aspia 50% stake each, and is reprefrom the integration between rations. The bodies are formed sented by two shareholders on mines and smelters, both in 20 Annual Report 2016 {G4-9} {G4-13, G4-34} Annual Report 2016 21 Governance, Risks, and Compliance Structure Structure Governance, Risks, and Compliance FAMILY COUNCIL HEJOASSU The Family Council has existed since 2001, and its strategy is to develop, Family Council support, and train sustainable leaders and shareholders for succession in the family and business of Votorantim, as well as to preserve the legacy Votorantim S.A. and the values of the Ermírio de Moraes family, managing communication among members and manage the flow of information about the Board of Directors Board of Executive Officers businesses, decisions, and family relationships. The council represents the Chairman: Chief Executive Officer whole family, which is now in its 5th generation. The council is composed Raul Calfat João Miranda of seven members of the third and fourth generations, over the age of 26. Counselors: Chief Treasury and Investor Relations Officer Antonio Ermírio de Moraes Filho Sergio Malacrida Carlos Eduardo Moraes Scripilliti Corporate Development Officer Cláudio Ermirio de Moraes João Schmidt Brazil and Peru. In this process, Companhia Brasileira de Clovis Ermírio de Moraes Scripilliti Votorantim Metais increased its Alumínio Controller and Shared Solutions Officer participation to 80.24% in the Companhia Brasileira de Instituto Reservas Fabio Ermírio de Moraes Luiz Caruso Peruvian mining company MilAlumínio (CBA) operates in the Votorantim Votorantim José Ermírio de Moraes Neto Chief Legal Officer po, which repurchased 2.75% aluminum value chain, from Institute Board Consulting Board José Roberto Ermírio de Moraes Luiz Marcelo Fins of its own shares. Additionally, the mining of bauxite to the Luis Ermirio de Moraes VM received investments corproduction of primary alumiChief Information Officer José Luiz Majolo responding to 10.65% of its num and products such as slaJoão Donizeti Oscar de Paula Bernardes Neto capital, from minority shareholbs, coils, sheets, and extruded Sergio Eraldo de Salles Pinto ders, aiming to consolidate profiles. As of June 2016, the itself among the major global assets of the nickel business players in the zinc industry. were incorporated to CBA, and have had their operations suspended since April 2016 as a result of structurally depressed prices in the global market, rendering the operation infeasible. 100 89 100 100 100 50 29 50 Votorantim Votorantim Companhia Votorantim Votorantim Citrosuco Fibria Banco Cimentos Metais Brasileira de Siderurgia Energia Votorantim Alumínio Board of Board of Board of Board of Board of Board of Board of Boards of Directors Directors Directors Directors Directors Directors Directors Directors CEO: CEO: CEO: CEO: CEO: CEO: CEO: CEO: Walter Dissinger Tito Martins Ricardo Carvalho Carlos Rotella Fabio Zanfelice Mario Bavaresco Marcelo Castelli Elcio Jorge dos Júnior Santos 22 Annual Report 2016 {G4-34} {G4-34} Annual Report 2016 23 Governance, Risks, and Compliance Compliance and anticorruption policy Compliance and anticorruption policy Governance, Risks, and Compliance CORPORATE PROGRAMS COMPLIANCE PROGRAM Created in 2013, the Compliance Program aims to ensure that Votorantim S.A. manages its business with integrity and transparency, always seeking high ethical standards. All actions, decisions, and relationships with stakeholders must be guided by the values of the company: soundness, ethics, respect, entrepreneurship, and unity. The continuous evolution of the investee companies in this area is driven by the work of the Compliance Working Group, formed by the managers responsible for the aspect at the various companies. At regular meetings, experiences are shared and policies and guidelines are collaboratively constructed. Votorantim S.A. and its companies also offer the Ethics Line (0800 89 11 729), a channel that answers questions and receives complaints about inappropriate conduct. RISK MANAGEMENT For the continuity and sustainability of its businesses, Votorantim S.A. has in place a framework to manage a wide variety of risks: strategic, regulatory, financial, social, environmental, and political, among others. The investee companies follow the same risk identification and mitigation model (see diagram on page 27); however, they are at different stages of implementation. In addition to the Governance, Risks, and Compliance area of the holding company, which operates in partnership with the various businesses, each company has its own risk management area that reports its activities through the company’s governance structure. RESPONSIBLE S ince the consolidation of the new governance in 2015, Votorantim S.A.’s Goverrisks and opportunities of the various segments in which it operates, adapting the portfoDirectors of the companies and the holding company. In 2016, this structuring nance, Risk, and Compliance lio when necessary, and presermovement was consolidated AUTONOMY (GRC) area acts in a purposeful ving the image and reputation via significant advancements. and consultative manner when of Votorantim. One such advancement was improving the framework, proThe work toward standardiimplementing a new Code of cesses, and procedures of the zing the criteria in the various Conduct, single for all the cominvestee companies. With this, businesses is through estapanies controlled, which was the holding company seeks to blishing principles and guidethoroughly revised by all invesVotorantim S.A. and the investee companies improve their gradually transfer the managelines, which are discussed, distee companies. The document risk management and compliance frameworks ment of the specific aspects of seminated, and monitored by gained two new sections, on each company, retaining the corporate programs, working the Anti-Corruption Policy and attributions of a portfolio magroups, audit committees, conflicts of interest, and was nager that is, correlating the as well as by the Boards of generally rewritten to become 24 Annual Report 2016 {G4-24, G4-56, HR3} Annual Report 2016 25 Governance, Risks, and Compliance Compliance and anticorruption policy Compliance and anticorruption policy Governance, Risks, and Compliance Anti-corruption policy a clearer and more objective guide to what is expected of A similar process was the be integrated into the Votorantim S.A. supply process and VOTORANTIM’S RISK MANAGEMENT MODEL employees, outsourced prorevision of the Anti-Corruption made available to the investee fessionals, and suppliers. The policy (see table below), aicompanies. content was also expanded by ming to clarify situations that Another relevant initiative ESTABLISHING THE CONTEXT RISK ASSESSMENT Understanding of Votorantim’s internal and The purpose of this stage is to assist decision developing concrete examples expose the employees of the in the anti-corruption improveexternal business model and environment, from a making based on the results of risk analysis, of situations concerning ethical holding company and of the inment process was the developrisk perspective. This stage involves the mapping including identifying which risks require attention dilemmas, which will be updavestee companies to situations ment of an app through which and continuous review of business processes, and and prioritizing how we handle each risk. Risk ted annually – something new of misconduct. The document meetings between executives assesses and classifies them according to maturity assessment also involves comparing the level of in this type of document. makes clear, for example, that and public authorities can be levels. risk found according to risk appetite and tolerance This work was followed by it is forbidden to hire suppliers recorded. criteria, defined and approved by the higher decisionwidespread dissemination and recommended by government Votorantim’s investee commaking bodies. employee training. The process representatives. panies are also encouraged to IDENTIFYING RISKS was supported by the informaSupplier monitoring is now continually map their regulaTogether, business areas and risk areas identify tion technology area, by launcarried out by the contract tory framework business, adethe events that threaten our chances of achieving HANDLING RISKS ching e-learning and an app for manager, instead of the comquately preparing themselves our goals. These events are classified according to Handling risks involves a cyclical process consisting of: tablets and smartphones. These pliance area. The goal of this to comply with legislation. They magnitude and follow legal, financial, strategic, ▶▶ assessing how the risk had already been handled; operational, and compliance criteria, among others. tools and the intensive use of measure was to strengthen must also continually structure ▶▶ deciding whether the levels of residual risk are communication channels ensuthe company’s day-to-day processes for identifying and tolerable; red buy-in of all internal stakecompliance culture. In 2017, a mitigating risks specific to their RISK ANALYSIS ▶▶ if they are not tolerable, defining and holder of the holding company new questionnaire focused on businesses, based on a comCollaborative construction of the risk matrix based implementing a new way of handling the risks, and to the content of the new code. the anti-corruption issue will mon management model. ▼ on the probability of the occurrence of risk events assessing the effectiveness. and the magnitude of their tangible and intangible impacts. Risk analysis involves assessing the causes The business area is responsible for dealing with and sources of risks, their positive and negative risks, accompanied by the one formally responsible consequences, and the likelihood that these for the risk (risk owner) and by the Governance, Risk consequences may occur. The matrix, in turn, guides ANTI-CORRUPTION INITIATIVES OVER TIME action plans for handling risks of greater magnitude and Compliance area. and probability of occurrence. ●● Drafting of anti-corruption ●● Inclusion of characteristics of the Anti-Corruption Law in ●● Revision of the AntiRISK MONITORING policy guided the actions of Brazil (Law No. 12,846); Corruption Policy as a Monitoring exposure to risk is carried out by the the holding company and of result of the New Code risk management area and reported to the higher ●● Board of Directors requests that compliance programs the investee companies, in of Conduct, valid for the be transferred to the Boards of Directors of each of the decision-making bodies. This process is part of line with the Foreign Corrupt holding company and for Practices Act (FCPA) and the investee companies; the investee companies. monitoring the context, identifying new risks, and UK Bribery Act (UKBA). ●● Board of Directors endorses the anti-corruption policies updating exposure using KRI (Key Risk Indicators). and programs adopted for all companies and requests that controls be extended to the units in the various countries where Votorantim operates. 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 ●● First revision and ●● Reinforcement of the Anti-Corruption Program, due relocation of to the Brazilian Federal Government Decree No. command and control 8,420/2015; Preparation of guidelines for the Boards procedures, including of Directors of the investee companies; compliance legal policies and event that brings together the leadership of the holding compliance. company and of the investee companies. 26 Annual Report 2016 {G4-SO5} Annual Report 2016 27 centers of excellence Value Creation Value BENCHMARK Creation PERFORMANCE Centers dedicated to developing prevention system, focused on processes, such as CSC and CCTI, are the assurance and compliance areas, in order to reduce losincreasingly recognized for excellence, ses generated by fraud and innovation, and the ability to generate process errors. Based on a set gains in scale. of risk indicators and different detection strategies, the service V provides a better internal conotorantim was one of finance, and payroll of the trol environment and will allow the first companies in holding company and of the transactions that do not meet Brazil to implement robust ceninvestee companies, in addipre-established standards to be ters of excellence, focused on tion to working in solutions for justified or blocked before they standardizing norms and procash management, risk maare finalized. cedures, on economy of scale, nagement, middle office, and This type of service has and on increased productivity. financial operations. enormous potential for geneOver time, these centers deveIn 2016, an important acrating economies of scale and loped, incorporated new tasks, tion at Votorantim Curitiba was optimizing resources. Known and gained attributions that the development of a new loss among telecom companies and resulted in capturing synergies among the investee companies, so that they ensure more efficient operations and increETHICS AND CONDUCT IN THE CLASSROOM ase the competitiveness of the business. The Clientar Program, coordinated by Votorantim Curitiba, promotes a series Today, these controls offer of social actions to encourage volunteering and adoption of best practices services in many areas and continue to expand their scope that have a positive impact on society. In 2016, several initiatives were of operation. The oldest and carried out in the capital city of Paraná, with emphasis on classes about largest is Votorantim Curitiba, ethics and conduct led by nearly forty CSC professionals in local public created over 10 years ago and schools. Another project was collecting signatures for the campaign 10 formed by the areas of CSC Measures against Corruption, coordinated by the Federal Public Ministry (Shared Solutions Center), General Accounting and Financial (MPF) throughout the national territory the action at Votorantim Curitiba Center, and its main activity is resulted in the collection of almost 10,000 signatures. In 2016, other to consolidate Votorantim and initiatives encouraged the donation of blood and bone marrow, as well as the investee companies, in addition collection of food, warm clothes, aluminum can tabs, and cooking oil. to operating in accounting, 28 Annual Report 2016 {G4-56} Annual Report 2016 29 Value Creation centers of excellence centers of excellence Value Creation within the financial market, it 2017. Due to the importance, recognized in the market for aims to capture synergies and is uncommon in the industrial sector and in Brazil. Developed extent, and results it presents, this became a pioneering acthe effectiveness, safety, and quality of the services provided. set norms and standards for companies so that they may CCTI CERTIFICATIONS in partnership with another tion for Votorantim and CSC. CCTI’s mission is to contribute focus on their business and Votorantim S.A. center of exto creating value for investee develop their own projects bacellence, the CCTI (Center for companies, incorporating imsed on a secure, pre-defined First year Competence in Information TeInformation Technology provements and competitive action protocol. In addition, Certification obtained Scope chnology), the project was tesVotorantim S.A. also has an advantages into corporate opCCTI caters to a single environted throughout 2016 and will advanced center of excellence erations and processes. ment that unites the IT operaISAE 3402 2010 IT with effective controls and be available to companies in in information technology, In practical terms, this work tions of the holding company and its investee companies, so compliance with SOX that the user experience has up-to-date technologies and ISO 20.000 2012 Best market practices in solutions, a sound and availamanagement for IT service ble system, and with excellent providers performance. To this end, the center uses the best IT management ISO 27.001 2013 Compliant with the best standards practices and technological of Information Security control standards recognized worldwide, supported by certifications and renowned international ISO 9.001 2013 Uses best management practices organizations. A CCTI advanin IT projects tage in this regard is obtaining, without reservation, the ISAE SAP CCoE 2013 Compliant with the best SAP 3402 (International Standard Advanced management processes* on Assurance Engagements) certification in 2010, which attests to compliance and con* The only company in Brazil with this certification fidence in process reports and financial controls. This certification has the benefit of identifying and monitoring the risks inherent REAL ESTATE SOLUTIONS to the business and creating With 100 years of history, Votorantim has amassed significant real estate assets. In recent mechanisms capable of quickly identifying illegal activities. This years, the analysis of these areas and the development of the real estate area at Votorantim helps prevent fraud and reduS.A. have led to the creation of a specific center of excellence for the sector. Created in 2014, ces the occurrence of multiple the Real Estate Solutions Center (CSI) consolidated its role as support for the management of audits in companies, since the Votorantim’s real estate assets, responsible for the centralized service of the legal, technical and reports generated through the contractual processes of the investee companies. In 2016, this work gained momentum with ISAE 3402 serve as a formal instrument for attesting processes the implementation of the real estate business plan, which established priorities and considered and procedures (see table for Votorantim S.A.’s various opportunities in the industry (read more on page 40). other CCTI certifications). ▼ 30 Annual Report 2016 Annual Report 2016 31 Value Creation Instituto Votorantim Instituto Votorantim Value Creation www.institutovotorantim.org.br T SOCIAL he Votorantim Institute acts as An example is the Public ManageIn addition to being essential to guia core social strategy for Voment Support Program (AGP), which ding the city’s growth, some of these torantim’s companies and provides involves three work fronts focused documents are a legal requirement STRATEGIES technical advice during all stages of on strengthening the capacity of the and a prerequisite in order for the the projects from the pre-installagovernment as an agent of developmunicipality to request funding for tion phase of new units, through ment. The management modernizaspecific business development lines. operations and expansion, to distion front provides technical support In 2016, the Institute began carcontinuing operations. The purpose to municipalities in order to increase rying out, along with the companies, of this work is to enhance the results efficiency and achieve financial baa third front, focused on the particiof external social investments in the lance. Improving processes and devepation of society in the design and Focused on public management, education, and other aspects that are communities where the company is loping tax management and control monitoring of government plans, relevant to society, the Votorantim Institute programs contribute to creating present. systems are some examples. which foresees long-term structuring Based on integrated planning, On the territorial planning front, operations within the municipality. shared value between the investee companies and the communities aligned with business challenges and the focus is to ensure municipalities The AGP is developed in partneropportunities, the Institute places a the documents guiding government ship with the National Bank for Econumber of social tools and technoloadministration such as industrial nomic and Social Development (BNgies at the service of companies and plans (Master Plan, Sanitation, HouDES), which shares the responsibility coordinates external partnerships sing, or Mobility Plan) and executive of financing the program with Vothat add new knowledge, broaden projects developed with the particitorantim. It is also supported by the their reach, and maximize their impation of the population and in accorInter-American Development Bank pacts from the social investments. dance with the applicable legal rites. (IDB) and the Arapyaú Institute.▼ MOBILIZATION INVESTMENT IN COMMUNITIES Over 3,000 volunteers, 5,553 people benefited, 65 Votorantim units mobilized In 2016, Votorantim’s social investment, 65 in Brazil and Peru, 20,222 hours of reached more than 108 million, UNITS of Votorantim volunteer work, and 24,387 actions directed at 340 projects in carried out. These were the main results 151 cities, from four countries, of the second edition of the Volunteer benefiting 719 thousand 20 Challenge, a corporate event organized people. Among the lines of action 3 THOUSAND hours of volunteer work by the Institute in partnership with THOUSAND are: promoting the local economy, VOLUNTEERS companies to encourage employee generating income, education, technical 5,5people benefited participation in actions to benefit the qualification of the government, and (in 78 non profit organizations and public schools) community. Organized into teams and protecting civil rights. Learn more about following a set of criteria, volunteers some of the initiatives in the next pages. are encouraged to choose the entity to 24 THOUSAND ACTIONS CARRIED OUT benefit, plan activities, and establish the (School supplies, sports implementation schedule. practice, building cleaning, hygiene and first aid supplies, food, clothing and toys.) 32 Annual Report 2016 {G4-SO1} {G4-24, G4-25, G4-26, G4-SO1} Annual Report 2016 33 Value Creation Instituto Votorantim Instituto Votorantim Value Creation SUPPORTING PUBLIC MANAGEMENT IN NUMBERS1 The AGP in practice Stimulus to ReDes IN NUMBERS the economy Low income and economic development rates are representative of almost 26 municipalities half of the municipalities in the area of operation of Votorantim companies, 53 projects considered to be social action priorities. In order to stimulate the economy Supported since 2010 of these cities, the Institute, in partnership with BNDES and the IDB, runs 40 projects the ReDes program. Based on social and economic feasibility studies, 1,800 families carried out with local government cooperatives and production associations receive investments and technical, benefitted commercial, and managerial training, and are closely monitored for four BRL 12.8 million $ At Fibria to five years. The idea is to strengthen the businesses so they may achieve $ BRL 60 million invested by Votorantim and BNDES self-sufficiency. Since the beginning of the program in 2010, ReDes has Invested in ReDes activities The company is building a pulp production line in the municipality of Três Lagoas supported 53 projects in 28 locations, benefiting 1,800 families. During 22 sectorial plans (MS), with operations scheduled to begin in 2018. The AGP’s activities began in the city in 2016, as soon as the project was approved by the company’s Board the period, Votorantim companies and BNDES invested BRL 60 million in activities; the plan is to total BRL 82 millions by 2020. approved as municipal laws of Directors. In addition to the actions toward qualifying management and 7 projects territorial planning – with the revision of the Master Plan the work foresees the creation of an action plan developed in line with the Emerging and Sustainable In 2016, the monthly income for the 27 totaled BRL 560,000, starting with with approved financing new products launched on the market, structuring of packaging and visual (BRL 18 million) Cities Program (CES), of the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB). The IDB identity, and agreements with large retail chains (a 20% increase compared BRL 10.6 million raised methodology guided the diagnosis of the current situation and the trends of the with projects already operating in 2015). Throughout the year, BRL 4.5 through financial balance $ municipality regarding aspects related to environment/climate change, urban million of income distributed by 29 projects (35% growth compared with goals and funding development/mobility and governance/fiscal management. Based on modeling projects that already distributed income). Of the 53 projects supported in the of evolution scenarios, urban intervention strategies that the city government will year, 14 completed their receipt of program funding. 1 Consolidated data (2012-2016) put into practice were defined in 2016. At Votorantim Cimentos The AGP methodology is one of Sobral Vision Plan for the Future, the components of a project that which establishes strategies and is mobilizing the private sector, the goals to guide the progress of government, academy, and society the city over the next 30 years in in the city of Sobral, Ceará, where topics such as economic growth, the company has been operating appreciating local traditions, since 1959. Throughout 2016, over sanitation, waste management, 2,000 people attended seminars, land occupation, mobility, and district meetings, sector meetings, leisure facilities, among others. and planning workshops; the debates on virtual forums totaled 45,000 interactions. The result of this collaborative process was the 34 Annual Report 2016 {G4-24, G4-25, G4-26, EN23, G4-SO1} {G4-24, G4-25, G4-26, G4-SO1} Annual Report 2016 35 Value Creation Instituto Votorantim Instituto Votorantim Value Creation Prepare for inclusion Education The Institute relies on education to leverage local development over the long PVE IN NUMBERS In order to help define a strategic approach to the inclusion of people with disabilities in the workforces of investee fundamental to the inclusion of these professionals: ▶▶ Recruitment and retention: policies and practices, term. The Votorantim Partnership for Education (PVE) seeks to raise the quality of education and school management in municipalities, based on a structured 17 municipalities companies, in 2016 the Institute carried out a diagnosis at training HR professionals on the aspect; action involving local governments, educational managers, parents, and students Citrosuco, CBA, Votorantim Cimentos, Votorantim Energia, ▶▶ Accessibility: physical structures and use of assistive Votorantim Metais, Votorantim Siderurgia, in addition to technologies; from the public network. The methodology includes training technicians from municipal boards of education, school principals, and coordinators, as well 2,300 young adults Votorantim S.A.. Opinions of 798 people were obtained ▶▶ Organizational culture: raising awareness of company among employees of the human resources areas, team employees, especially the managers, for the true as engaging and mobilizing the community. The program seeks to develop managers and professionals with disabilities. More than half of the employees in this category participated. integration of these professionals; ▶▶ Management: initiatives to guide professional growth the competencies of educational and school managers, positively impacting students’ learning. It also seeks to strengthen the culture of continuing training of 252 schools impacted The study focused on four aspects considered and the development of their production potential. professionals in education, and increase community participation in education. Also in 2016, a workshop was held on the theme TYPE OF DISABILITY with all companies that motivated the creation of According to a study carried out by a specialized consulting company, the 50% Physical the Inclusion Work Group, with representatives action has a positive impact on the Basic Education Development Index (IDEB). 24% Hearing from different areas of the invested companies, Analyzing the data from 2015, the study showed that the municipalities 15% Visual the realization of an initiative 9% Rehabilitated persons participating in the PVE evolved 35% faster than the other municipalities in at Votorantim Cimentos, 2% Intellectual which included curriculum Brazil, with a similar profile, in the Elementary School results, and 45% faster in registration, training for People Middle School. COMPANY TIME & Management (DHO) professionals and 50% Up to 5 years managers. These initiatives are helping It has also been proven that the performance of students impacted by the 19% From 6 to 10 years the Institute to develop a methodology “Proof Brazil” program is 30% higher in Mathematics and 14% in Reading, in 15% From 11 to 20 years that will help companies on the subject elementary school 1 and 67% and 18%, respectively, in elementary school 2. In 4% From 21 to 30 years of inclusion of people with disabilities. 12% Over 25 years addition, the dropout rate of these students is below the national standard. processos e aprendizados ADAPTING SPACES TO SPECIFIC NEEDS1 das consultas lúdicas 2016 65% Fully adequate 26% Partially adequate TALENT IN 2% Not adequate SUSTAINABILITY Award 7% Did not answer Category Company Winning Project 1 P erception on the level of preparedness of the manager to supervise these professionals Environment Citrosuco Biological control: innovation in the control of Annually, Votorantim Institute honors Greening in citrus orchards PERCEPTION ON THE LEVEL OF projects developed by company PREPAREDNESS OF THE MANAGER TO employees and that promote Productivity Companhia Brasileira Mechanization of the process to supply SUPERVISE THESE PROFESSIONALS and efficiency aluminum oxide in the Furnace Rooms environmental, social, and financial de Alumínio Manager: Professional: benefits. In 2016, projects were Health and Fibria Forestry Safety Program Preservation of Life Well prepared or 51% 70% Well prepared or awarded in five categories, selected Safety prepared prepared by a committee composed of internal Social Votorantim Cimentos Sustainable Springtime Return on Social and external professionals, in addition Performance Investments Unsure; I would like to 43% improve my knowledge to an open voting process involving all 27% Partially prepared Popular Vote Citrosuco Behavioral Group a culture of health and 2% Unprepared employees of all the companies. safety Unprepared 6% 1% Did not answer 36 Annual Report 2016 {G4-24, G4-25, G4-26, G4-LA12} {G4-24, G4-25, G426, G4-SO1} Annual Report 2016 37 Value Creation Reservas Votorantim Reservas Votorantim Value Creation www.legadodasaguas.com.br BIODIVERSITY urban areas. Partnerships with To this end, the initial step was University of Rio de Janeiro universities enabled mapping to sequence the genome of 50 (UFRJ). of local wildlife and flora and species native to the Atlantic In the future, through the opened a rich field for scienRainforest. This work gave rise process of bioprospecting, maAS A BUSINESS tific research. Work with local to the biome’s largest genetic pping can allow for the develocommunities has given rise to a database, called the “digital fopment of new products based robust project to develop prorest”, through an unprecedenon the biodiversity of the Atlanduction chains, with a focus on generating employment and income for the population the state of São Paulo, Legado das living in the region. LEGADO VERDES DO CERRADO The consolidation of the company Reservas Águas covers three municipalities Votorantim brings new prospects to Legado Juquiá, Miracatu, and Tapiraí and In February 2017, Companhia Brasileira de Alumínio, Reservas das Águas and paves the way for ecological was formed through the acquisition Open to the public Votorantim and the Government of the State of Goiás signed of several areas between the decades In 2016, Legado das Águas tourism activities to begin in 2017 of 1920 and 1950. also took an important step a memorandum of understanding to create a new Private Votorantim’s progressive vision at towards opening for public Reserve, the Legado Verdes do Cerrado. With 32,000 hectares and located the time was that the preservation of visitation by hosting groups of to the north of that state, in the city of Niquelândia, more than 80% of the plant cover was the best way to Votorantim employees in nine the territory will be a protected area of Cerrado, in which research and guarantee the long-term availability test events held from October of water in the region, where there to December. On these occabusiness related to the green economy will be developed. In the remaining are seven hydroelectric plants that sions, the activities and itinearea, activities associated with the agribusiness will be developed, always supply energy to Companhia Brasiraries prepared for 2017 were pursuing integration with preservation and the purpose of the Reserve. leira de Alumínio. This vision was matested in practice, allowing an terialized in a protocol of intentions, assessment of the necessary signed in 2012 between the Goveradjustments to the structure in nment of the State of São Paulo and order to serve the public. The ted partnership with Bio Buretic Rainforest, while allowing Votorantim, for the implementation opening of Legado das Águas au, a biotechnology startup, for the creation of scientific of a reserve that offers society a poto the general public is expecincubated at the Federal and economic value.▼ sitive legacy, developing research, ted to occur by mid-2017. environmental education, and susIn addition to public vitainable tourism activities, as well as sitation, the reserve has deC business opportunities based on the veloped a business plan that reated in 2015, the Reservas Reservas Votorantim adds to the existing environmental resources. provides other possibilities for Votorantim was established to holding company’s assets a business In the past few years, Votorangenerating revenues, such as manage the environmental assets of associated with the new economy, tim S.A. has continuously invested environmental compensation Votorantim S.A. and create shared combining environmental conservain structuring these activities and and selling of seedlings from its value from the natural resources and tion and financial return in a sustaisome consistent results are already nursery. Inaugurated in 2016, ecosystem services offered at these nable manner. In practical terms, its beginning to appear. With the help the nursery has an annual prolocations. The new company aims to first mission is to promote the maof the Public Management Support duction potential of 200,000 look at these assets from a business nagement of Legado das Águas, a Program (AGP), headed by the Votoseedlings. standpoint while investing in the private reserve consisting of 31,000 rantim Institute and with the financial In the long-term, the idea conservation of biodiversity, in order hectares of Atlantic Rainforest, equisupport of Legado das Águas, the gois to exploit the reserve’s huge to generate social, environmental, valent to 1.5% of the remaining vernments of the three cities covered biodiversity potential, reseand economic gains through a series area of this biome. Located in Vale by the reserve developed strategic arching the properties of the of structured actions. do Ribeira, in the Southern region of sectorial plans aimed at reorganizing local flora for new products. 38 Annual Report 2016 {G4-24, G4-25, G4-26, G4-EN13, G4-EN3, G4-EN31} {G4-EN13, G4-EN31} Annual Report 2016 39 Value Creation Real estate development innovation Value Creation URBAN PLANNING INVITATION TO INNOVATE How Votorantim’s real estate assets can be used to induce economic and social value in the largest city in Brasil. A significant portion of the real estate assets of Votorantim has great potential of a long-term project, designed for an extensive area in Vila Leopoldina, in São Paulo public use. The idea is to prioritize inclusive concepts for the more rational use and integrafor developing projects that ge(see below a photograph of tion of the infrastructure and nerate value for the company the region). local public facilities. and for society. These are areas The proposal follows the The project proponents of various sizes and purposes guidelines of an instrument Votorantim S.A, BVEP (a real that have been acquired over provided in the Municipal Masestate and holding company decades in the vicinity of the ter Plan, called the Urban Interof Banco Votorantim), SDI (a plants and operational units, vention Project (PIU), for areas real estate management and which may give rise to various in the city that have transfordevelopment company), and types of projects. mation potential. The new URBEM (Institute of Urbanism In recent years, Votorantim regulatory framework enables and Studies for the Metropolis) S.A. has invested heavily in the urban project proposals to be followed the rites established mapping, analysis and regularformulated based on strateby law and, after protocol conization of this property, with a gies collaboratively defined taining the diagnosis of the focus on identifying the possibetween the private sector and region and the public interest ble uses and opportunities rethe government. The process program, were formally autholated to these real estate assets. involves several stages and a rized in December 2016 by the The holding company and its investee members, continuously encouIn 2016, this work reaches a wide debate among public city hall to develop the projcompanies advance by consolidating a raging follow-up and trend asnew level with the development entities and society in general, ect according to pre-defined sessment, as well as joint prosculture of innovation as part of day-toincluding consultations and guidelines. pecting of opportunities. The public hearings. The next step involves jointday operations meetings also address possibiThe Vila Leopoldina project ly leading the project, along lities for fostering research and V seeks the development and with the city government, of innovation, as well as possible revitalization of the area based the various aspects addressed otorantim S.A. beliepath in a structured way. For that partnerships with universities, on a comprehensive vision that urban, social, economic, and ves that it is critical to reason, in 2016, the holding led research institutes, and other induces economic and social legal. Towards the end, the foster a culture of innovation the creation of the Innovation organizations. value. The goal is to apply project will serve as a basis in order to maintain business Network, which brings together solutions that add value to for the bill about the use this continuity, identify long-term representatives of Votorantim public venues, mixed and comterritory. ▼ threats and opportunities, adS.A. and eight investee compaStructuring mon-use areas, respecting the just its portfolio, and develop nies with the mission of sharing Votorantim’s investee compacharacteristics of the region. products and services that are experiences and boosting the nies are at different stages of The size of the area favors this relevant to society. search for synergies. incorporating a culture of intype of intervention, allowing As a portfolio manager, the This network includes binovation. One of the missions for the merging of spaces for holding company encourages inmonthly meetings and dayof the network is precisely to residential, commercial, and vestee companies to follow this -to-day interactions of its support the structuring of 40 Annual Report 2016 Annual Report 2016 41 Value Creation innovation innovation Value Creation Connecting with the world technology-based companies ABILITY TO INNOVATE Throughout 2016, four editions in the developmental stage. of VotoTalks were held, an event The establishment of this nethat promotes debates on toptwork allows for the identifiINNOVATION AT THE INVESTEE COMPANIES The 2nd edition of ics related to innovation, such as cation and selection of entrethe Valor Innovation interaction with startups, open preneurs with great potential VOTORANTIM CIMENTOS Brazil Award, held in innovation, and culture of innofor collaboration in developing A new business area was that generate biomass and 2016, recognized the vation. Each edition includes the innovation with a high impact created in 2016, with the goal other materials that may be participation of an outside proon society and the market. innovation capacity of enabling and accelerating used as source of energy. fessional with an inspiring backIn 2016, over 40 companies of Votorantim the use of alternative fuels, to Co-processing does not cause ground, such as Adriano Silva, met to define the major challenreplace fossil fuels, in cement any change in the quality of companies. In the author of the book O executivo ges facing society in the future, production. This is being the cement and meets the ranking of the 100 sincero (The Sincere Executive), including “Innovative Cities,” done by bringing together specific quality standards of and Maju Azambuja, executive “Industry of the Future,” “Inindustrial waste generators, the Brazilian Association of most innovative companies in the country, Fibria mentor from Cubo Itaú. formation Society,” and “Agrimunicipalities, and companies Technical Standards (ABNT). ranked 31st, while VM was 44th (3rd in the Open to all employees of the business.” Afterwards, startups “Heavy Industry and Metallurgy” sector) and holding company and of the from Brazil and abroad were inVC ranked 85th (5th in the “ Heavy Industry and investee companies, VotoTalks vited to present projects related Metallurgy” sector). aims to inspire new ideas, conto these challenges. The end of VOTORANTIM METAIS nect people, and stimulate dethe process, in February 2017, The “Zero Waste” project at the nutritional potential acts as bate in order to strengthen the elected the 100 best startups Morro Agudo unit, located in corrector of soil acidity in programs dedicated to the asculture of innovation. The idea according to the evaluation of Paracatu, MG, eliminated the coffee, corn, and soybean need for a tailings dam through crops. The next step will be pect, so that they all reach their is to make the event more inthe participating companies. a new technology route in to eliminate the two existing full innovation potential. teractive and inspiring in 2017. Votorantim S.A. encouraprocess. In addition, a new dams, returning the material In the first meetings, the Another highlight of the ged all its employees to partiproduct, Agricultural calcareous, settled to processing. group analyzed different corperiod was the participation cipate in the online evaluation was generated, whose high porate innovation models and of the holding company, VC, process. As a result, the commethodologies. Each of the VM, Citrosuco, and Fibria in pany ranked third among the companies presented their inithe program 100 Open Starevaluators, demonstrating its tiatives in this area, as well as tups, whose purpose is to potential for interaction with COMPANHIA BRASILEIRA DE ALUMÍNIO the errors and successes in this connect large companies with this ecosystem. ▼ Since 2015, CBA has been cement industry. In the future, process. studying the use of red mud, a this technology will create byproduct from the processing the possibility of eliminating These lessons served as of bauxite, in the production of tailings dams in aluminum orientation for all companies pozzolan, a raw material in the production. to improve their own models. In the case of Citrosuco, implementation started at the end of 2016 and one of its first deveFIBRIA lopments was a partnership Over the past 40 years, with from forest biomass will have between the company and cloning of eucalyptus, the the potential to transform Legado das Águas Reserva company has doubled its pulp the oil and gas industry Votorantim, aimed at researproductivity per hectare per when it achieves a lower ching orange components for year. Also, the bio-oil made production cost. use in other products with high added value. 42 Annual Report 2016 {G4-EN3, EN21, EN23} Annual Report 2016 43 Development People and Culture FOCUS ON DEVELOPMENT After completing 10 years of operation, T he corporate university Votorantim Academy, of Votorantim S.A. and its trends in order to catalyze the development of professionals and prepare them for longinvestee companies, recently -term challenges. The manageAcademia underwent a comprehensive ment topics, therefore, begin Votorantim is review, aiming to strengthen to be worked individually by preparing for a and support the organization’s companies, which will further new operating high performance culture. enhance the content according Throughout 2016, this work into the reality of each business. model volved planning, reviewing goThus, the Academia Votoranvernance, and programming, tim starts to work with knowas well as implementing new ledge that is cross-sectional to tools and pilot tests, among all business models, focused on other actions. the debate and the evolution In line with Program 18.18 of this attitude and on the pre(see more on page 16), the servation of Votorantim’s DNA. changes in Academia VotoranIn the new model, there is no tim are also a part of a set of room for the physical limitations initiatives aimed toward develoof the classroom. In addition to ping people who will help build courses and in person activithe Votorantim of the future. ties, Academia Votorantim has In this way, as of 2017, dedigital content platforms, such velopment actions promoted as the portal of the 18.18 Proby the Academia Votorantim gram, as well as webcast transwill function as a hub, connecmissions, increasing the scope ting people, information, and of the development actions. People and Culture 44 Annual Report 2016 {G4-9} {G4-LA9} Annual Report 2016 45 People and Culture Development Attraction and Retention People and Culture EDUCATION AND TRAINING YOUNG TALENT Talent Attraction initiatives and and have high potential for en97 groups partnerships with universities and junior gagement. Brasil Júnior also acts in the Academy as a consulting company in order companies already fill 12% of the new to strengthen the company’s ties job openings at Votorantim S.A. 1,000 + with former juniors. In In the same direction with leaders trained I the recruitment actions, the hol7 mentors n 2016, Votorantim S.A. strengthened its relationship openings during the year were filled through these initiatives. ding company also invests in developing the professionals who graduated with young professionals and One of the main initiatives in already work for the company. people preparing to enter the this sense was the partnership Trainees and young talents within 13 mentors Knowledge management crossing the specific skills of the job market. The actions focused on partnerships with universities with Brasil Júnior, an association that brings together almost 400 the organization participate jointly in the Potenciar program, whisupervised In 2017, the Academy trained mentors and the inteand junior companies, and reuniversity companies and 11,000 ch provides training on topics of 37,000 + will offer qualifications and training that will empower rests of the mentee applicants. Mentoring sessions take place presentatives of the holding company attended major carejunior businesspeople in Brazil. This partnership results in a relaself-knowledge, communication, project management, in addition training hours professionals and companies over eight months, and are er fairs. The results are already tionship with this audience, suto the development of a multidisto broaden their critical vision individually managed by the beginning to appear, with gains pported by the dissemination of ciplinary group project. Additioand their competence in purcompanies. in the accuracy of selection programs in order to attract new nally, they have the opportunity suit of results. The idea is for training to be and recruitment processes. On talent and focus on young ento work in several areas, in a job PREPARING FOR THE To this end, the Mentor cascaded to the various levels average, about 12% of new trepreneurs who are innovative rotation system. ▼ FUTURE Training Program was one of the Academia Votorantim’s noof the companies. In the pilot project at Votorantim S.A., velties in 2016. In addition to all directors were trained and In an initiative coordinated by the Remuneration and Personnel Committee, linked to the Board bringing different generations closer together and being an worked on the development of 13 mentees. A new group RECOGNITION of Directors of Votorantim S.A., all companies important tool for retaining and of mentors has already been Votorantim was part of the 2016 satisfaction of 18 to 26 year olds In a survey conducted by the participated in a project to systematize internal disseminating internal knowletrained, of general managers, edition of The Best Companies to Start interns and employees with their 99jobs website, Votorantim’s initiatives and ensure structured succession plans for dge, the initiative offers those and training for managers is a Career, an initiative by the Você S/A jobs, and was conducted in almost 130 trainee program was considered involved mentors and mentescheduled for 2017. magazine in partnership with Fundação companies from different sectors. the second best in Brazil. The CEO positions. es – opportunities to take initiaAnother example is training Instituto de Administração company also featured in the tive toward their own growth. of managers and DHO professio(FIA) and Cia de Talentos. evaluation of the young Each company has created its internal succession Participation is voluntary, but it nals in self-knowledge tools such The survey adults who participated map, identifying the people with the potential to assumes the professionals’ firm as MBTI (Myers-Briggs Type Indireflects the in Career Week with the assume top leadership positions, diagnosing the commitment to various stages cator) and Emotional Intelligenbest recommendation current level of development, and defining action of development. ce, which were previously only rate: 97%. The event plans short, medium, and long term to support For future mentors, Acadeapplied at Academia Votorantim promotes visits of mia Votorantim offers training and the companies by external university students to professional maturing. Discussed by Board members in topics related to knowledge consultants. Now, they will now companies. and CEOs, these maps have been refined and are transmission, communication, be disseminated through probeing put into practice and monitored in 2017. goal setting, and feedback. fessionals in the DHO business The work pairs are defined by areas. ▼ 46 Annual Report 2016 {G4-LA9} {G4-LA1, G4-LA9} Annual Report 2016 47 People and Culture Engagement Engagement People and Culture ceased to be a corporate and operational center in order to Annual monitoring of engagement reflects the results CLIMATE SURVEY assume the role of portfolio of refining personnel managemanager. The work involved ment and helps drive improvestructured employee engagement actions, revising the work ments. Each aspect of the diagnosis has an action plan, 79%: Recommendation index 1 dynamics, and aligning with the defined jointly with multidisciholding company’s vision for the future. This new governance plinary groups. Progress is monitored by the executive office of 83%: Favorability index 2 profile reflects the employees’ Votorantim S.A., and is annualperception of clarity and direcly shared with all employees in tion, since 85% say they clearly understand their contribution to a transparent manner. At other Votorantim com77%: Leadership index Votorantim S.A. and feel confipanies, the evolution of the dent about the future prospects of the business. internal climate is monitored every two years.▼ 90%: Engagement index 99.5% : Adherence AMONG THE BEST (159 employees) 1 Employees who would recommend the company to friends and family. Personnel management practices have led Votorantim S.A. to hold a prominent position 2 R eflects the overall level of satisfaction, calculated based on the in Você S/A magazine’s Best Companies To percentage of employees who score 4 or 5 on a scale of 1 to 5 to the aspects surveyed. Work For guide. The company ranked second THE IMPORTANCE OF in the Miscellaneous Services category, with 74.8 points in the Work Happiness FAVORABILITY | ADHERENCE % WORK ENVIRONMENT Index, calculated based on the online survey conducted with employees, interviews with employees and managers, and the 72 | 95 80 | 98 83 | 99,5 evaluation of personnel management Employee satisfaction, measured in the annual The holding company achieved practices. engagement survey, reflects the improvement the P90 regarding the leadership index, which rose from 75% to 77%. of personnel management within Votorantim The ranking is prepared annually by the In addition, the quest for excellence, 2014 2015 2016 S.A. and guides action and improvement plans based on a high-performance culture magazine, in partnership with Fundação Instituto de Administração (FIA) of the University of São Paulo (USP). and teamwork, remains a key factor A in the organization, since 93% of The 2016 edition was attended by over 100,000 professionals from ll aspects monitored by the which brings together the top 10% of employees acknowledge that there 345 companies. 2016 edition of Votorantim companies that apply the Korn Ferry is a great commitment to delivery of S.A.’s annual climate survey showed Hay Group methodology, rose from their work. In another acknowledgment in this area, Votorantim S.A. was positive evolution compared with 76% to 79%. This was also the best The evolution of the internal cliincluded, for the first time, in the ranking of the “Best Loved 2015. The favorability index, reflecindex recorded by the company since mate was built systematically and Companies in Brazil” by the electronic platform LoveMondays!, ting overall employee satisfaction, the survey began in 2003. A total of marks the consolidation of the new which consolidated the assessments made daily by employees of the rose from 80% to 83%. The market 159 employees (99.5% of the total) governance model announced in holding company benchmark called P90 (90 percentile), voluntarily participated in the survey. 2013, when the holding company 48 Annual Report 2016 {G4-LA1} {G4-LA1} Annual Report 2016 49 Market Context Financial Performance STRENGTH OF THE PORTFOLIO The political scenario and economic downturn in Brazil influenced the consolidated results of Votorantim S.A. and its investee companies, but portfolio diversity and financial discipline mitigated the negative effects T he Brazilian economic downturn and political instability in Brazil, and the The approval of the Proposed Amendment to the Constitution that determined a NET REVENUE BRL BILLION SHARE OF EACH BUSINESS IN THE NET INCOME % world, had a major impact on cap for public spending, in De29.3 26.7 the business environment in cember, and the infrastructure 47% Cement 2016. In Europe, the UK’s deciprogram proposed by the feder24% Polymetals sion to exit the European Union al government are factors that 17% Aluminum and nickel 6% Long steel (Brexit) adversely affected a cycle can contribute positively to the 6% Others of political and trade integration end of the economic recession. in the euro zone. In economic Despite some positive signs, 2013 2014 2015 2016 terms, the decision weakens the the country still has challenges block, resulting in uncertainties to be resolved, such as pension in the shortand middle-term. reform, for example. ADJUSTED EBITDA SHARE OF EACH BUSINESS (INDUSTRIAL SECTOR) % The results of the presiSome figures show the size BRL BILLION dential elections in the United of the impact of these factors States and the protectionist on the production sector. The 7.0 policies announced resulted in industry confidence index (ICI), 56% Cement changes in the outlook in terms measured by the Getúlio Var4.3 28% Polymetals of the flow of business on a gas Foundation (FGV), reached 1% Aluminum and nickel 7% Long steel global scale. its lowest level since June 2015 8% Others In Brazil, the scenario turned and ended 2016 at 84.8 points. 2013 2014 2015 2016 out to be even more complex According to the Brazilian Naand challenging in 2016. The tional Confederation of Industry Financial impeachment process of Pres(CNI), the actual income for the NET DEBT NET DEBT/ADJUSTED EBITDA ident Dilma Rousseff created industrial sector dropped 12% BRL BILLION turbulence in the market which, in the year, compared with 3.43 x coupled with deterioration of 2015. Additionally, according to 2.79 x public accounts, profoundly Brazilian Institute of Geography 19.4 Performance affected the government’s inand Statistics (IBGE), unemploy14.7 vestment capacity, compromisment in Brazil reached 12% in ing demand in various sectors 4Q/16, the highest rate ever where Votorantim operates recorded in the series that was such as cement, aluminum, initiated in 2012. 2013 2014 2015 2016 and long steel. In this extremely challenging 50 Annual Report 2016 {G4-EC1} Annual Report 2016 51 Financial Performance Market Context Market Context Financial Performance VOTORANTIM CIMENTOS growth mature and emerging markets, strategy, Votorantim Cimentos NET SHAREHOLDERS’ INCOME EQUITY in addition to investing in initiatives to Implemented measures to reinforce IN BRL BILLION IN BRL BILLION manage costs, operational efficiency, and financial liquidity and long-term productivity, without losing its focus on indebtedness, successfully issuing 14.1 3.2 12.7 customers. This strategy has proven to the first bond of St. Marys, in the US, 2.4 be efficient and yielded positive results totaling USD 500 million due in 2027. in the main regions outside Brazil. In the Through this operation, Votorantim United States, the increase in the launch Cimentos reinforced its solid credit of new real estate projects, the expected profile, in addition to better balancing 2013 2014 2015 2013 2016 2014 2015 2016 recovery of investments in infrastructure the capital structure in the regions and a milder winter positively contributed where it operates. Furthermore, liability to an increase in prices and sales volumes management made it possible to In the past two years, the homeof cement and concrete in the region extend the debt amortization schedule, building market was strongly affected where the company operates. This, along reaching an average debt maturity of by the economic recession and political with cost initiatives in the region, resulted 10 years, thereby mitigating risks of uncertainties in Brazil. According to the in an EBITDA 13% better than 2015. refinancing and liquidity. Brazilian Cement Association (SNIC), In Europe, Africa and Asia, the results cement sales in the Brazilian market recorded by Votorantim Cimentos yielded In the aggregate for the year, scenario, Votorantim S.A. recorded a In the last three years, the investproduction line in Três Lagoas, in Mato Votorantim Cimentos’s net income dropped 11.7% in 2016. an EBITDA 14% better, with highlights decrease in consolidated revenue and ment plans have been maintained Grosso do Sul, totals BRL 7.5 billion in for Morocco and Tunisia, which reported was BRL 12.7 billion, 10% lower EBITDA for the period. The effects and new business and operating units investments and is expected to begin Attentive to this scenario, Votorantim the highest sales volume and greater than in 2015., while the Adjusted of political and economic instability are already beginning to get off the operating at the end of 2017. Cimentos proceeded with its strategy operational efficiency. EBITDA amounted to BRL 2.4 million, in Brazil were mitigated by the portground. In 2016, Votorantim CimenIn 2016, a conservative financial of geographic diversification through representing a 25% reduction folio’s geographical and business tos inaugurated the Primavera unit strategy was maintained through a diversification, with international opin Pará and continued its projects to comfortable liquidity position, with a expansion in regions with potential for Also in 2016, as part of its business compared with 2015. erations offsetting part of the losses expand capacity in the United States, solid cash position and an adequate in the Brazilian market notably for Turkey and Bolivia, which will contribdebt amortization profile. the operations with zinc and better ute to increase regional diversification. Votorantim S.A.’s consolidated results for the cement operations in In the energy business, the year also cash position at the end of the year VOTORANTIM METAIS the United States. marked the start of the construction was USD 10.2 billion. In addition, of seven wind farms in Piauí, with inVotorantim S.A. and its investee comIn the zinc & by-products segment, the Despite the favorable scenario, there NET SHAREHOLDERS’ vestments of BRL 1.1 billion and companies have USD 1.2 billion in two reINCOME EQUITY 8% increase in revenue was driven by the was a 15% reduction in the Adjusted Responsible management pletion scheduled for 2018. volving credit lines (Revolving Credit IN BRL BILLION IN BRL BILLION increase in sales volume, reflecting the EBITDA in 2016, due to increase In response to the adverse scenario It is worth mentioning that this was Facilities) with 14 banks and maturing increased production of concentrates in provision for environmental liabilities, 6.4 1.4 in recent years, all investee companies the last approved expansion project, in in 2020. 5.9 1.2 the mines of Vazante (Brazil), Atacocha to the impact of derivatives and to have focused their efforts on pursuit April 2015, and that no new projects In the year, Votorantim S.A. and its (Peru), and Cerro Lindo (Peru), and the the expenses associated with the of efficiency in operations by reducing were approved in 2016. Votorantim investee companies performed liabilincrease in the metals prices, in dollars, in mineral exploration in projects in their fixed costs and operating expenses, as S.A.’s consolidated CAPEX reached BRL ities management initiatives focused the London Metal Exchange (LME), mainly initial phases, such as Aripuanã and well as improving production process3.0 billion in 2016, 6% below the total on reducing refinancing risks for the zinc, totaling BRL 6.4 billion in the period. Caçapava do Sul. es. In addition, there is a continuous invested in the previous year. coming years. The average maturity of 2013 2014 2015 2016 2013 2014 2015 2016 effort to keep fixed costs and operatAt Fibria, a company consoliloans and financing ended the year in ing expenses below inflation. dated via equity method, the pulp 7.5 years. ▼ 52 Annual Report 2016 {G4-EC1} {G4-EC1} Annual Report 2016 53 Financial Performance Market Context Market Context Financial Performance COMPANHIA BRASILEIRA DE ALUMÍNIO LONG STEEL In the aluminum business, the 17% of the low prices of this metal in 304 million, respectively 20% and 21% million tons of laminated products. NET SHAREHOLDERS’ drop in production of trucks and the commodities market. However, NET SHAREHOLDERS’ below 2015. Revenue and adjusted The agreement includes ArcelorMittal INCOME EQUITY INCOME EQUITY IN BRL BILLION IN BRL MILLION buses in 2016 when compared to nickel plants in São Miguel Paulista IN BRL BILLION IN BRL MILLION Ebitda do not consider the results of the Brasil’s plants in Monlevade, Cariacica, 2015, as reported by the Brazilian and Niquelândia remained in care In Brazil, classified as available for sale Juiz de Fora, Piracicaba and Itaúna, 4.6 800 2.0 386 4.2 association of vehicle manufacturers maintenance, generating additional in the 2016 financial statements. and Votorantim Siderurgia’s plants in 1.6 304 (ANFAVEA), and the retraction in the expenses for the company. Barra Mansa, Resende, as well as the 275 civil construction sector led Companhia equity interest in Sitrel, in Três Lagoas. Brasileira de Alumínio (CBA) to increase The difficulties in the aluminum market, AGREEMENT INVOLVING The transaction should generate cost, the production and export of primary the reduction in the energy price and OPERATIONS IN BRAZIL logistics and operational synergies. The 2013 2014 2015 2013 2016 2014 2015 2016 products, to the detriment of transformed the suspension of nickel, together, 2013 2014 2015 2013 2016 2014 2015 2016 Votorantim S.A. and ArcelorMittal Brasil production facilities of the combined products, with higher added value. led CBA to show a 9% decrease in S.A. signed an agreement on February companies are geographically revenue and a 66% decrease in the 23, 2017, under which Votorantim complementary, allowing greater In June 2016, CBA also incorporated adjusted EBITDA in 2016, compared In steel production, countries where the Siderurgia will become a subsidiary of proximity and improved service levels to nickel production operations, which with the previous year. company operates had lower demand ArcelorMittal Brasil and Votorantim will their customer base. were temporarily suspended because than expected in 2016. In Argentina, hold minority interest in the capital of the review of infrastructure projects and ArcelorMittal Brasil. Votorantim’s long The transaction is subject to regulatory the fiscal adjustment taken by the new steel operations in Argentina (Acerbrag) approvals in Brazil, including the federal government affected demand. and Colombia (PazdelRío) were not approval by the Brazilian anti-trust FIBRIA In Colombia, revenue was negatively included in the transaction. authority (CADE). impacted by a 45-day truck-driver The growth in the global demand for The cash position of BRL 4.717 billion, The combination of the businesses Until closing, ArcelorMittal Brasil and strike that impacted the distribution of NET SHAREHOLDERS’ eucalyptus pulp, coupled with low along with the undrawn lines of credit will result in a long steel producer Votorantim Siderurgia will continue to INCOME EQUITY the products. As a result, the company IN BRL BILLION IN BRL BILLION inventory levels and a more balanced for financing the expansion of the with annual production capacity of operate separately and independently. closed the year with revenue of BRL short-term perspective than expected, Três Lagoas unit (Horizonte 2 Project), 5.6 million tons of crude steel and 5.4 1.6 billion and adjusted EBITDA of BRL 10.1 9.6 5.3 in terms of entrance of new capacity, is sufficient to cover the remaining 3.7 allowed Fibria to announce price investments needed to complete the increases for China and other markets new unit as well as amortization of at the end of 2016. The company debt until the end of 2018. Project closed the year with a sales volume Horizonte 2 closed 2016 with 77% 2013 2014 2015 2013 2016 2014 2015 2016 of approximately 5.5 million tons (8% completion of the physical execution above 2015) and net revenue of BRL and 57% of the financial investments. 9.61 billion, down 5% compared with the previous year. Adjusted EBITDA totaled BRL 3.742 billion in the period, with a 43% margin. 54 Annual Report 2016 {G4-EC1} {G4-13 , G4-EC1} Annual Report 2016 55 Financial Performance Market Context CITROSUCO The 2015/2016 harvest (fiscal year EBITDA USD 117 million compared NET SHAREHOLDERS’ July/June) was negatively impacted by with the previous harvest. INCOME EQUITY the decline in the fruit yield and the IN BILLIONS OF DOLLARS IN BILLIONS OF DOLLARS average brix (sugar content) caused Despite the unfavorable economic 1.3 170 by unfavorable weather conditions, scenario in Brazil, the Citrosuco 1.0 which impacted the cost of the product. remained attentive to market 117 In response to projections of lower opportunities and continued to stock and reduced production in invest in improving processes and the United States, the global market new projects. In the harvest, total showed increased juice prices in the investments exceeded USD 53 million. 2013 2014 2015 2016 2013 2014 2015 2016 last quarter of the 2015-2016 harvest, Of this total, USD 18 million was while Citrosuco quickly re-evaluated invested in increasing production its commercial strategy. As a result, the capacity and research. company recorded a decrease in net revenue USD 1.041 billion and also in BANCO VOTORANTIM The Brazilian outlook 8.4 billion, pursuant to the BRGAAP NET SHAREHOLDERS´ BASEL in 2016 lead Banco accounting standard. Furthermore, INCOME EQUITY RATIO IN BRL MILLION IN BRL BILLION % Votorantim to adopt delinquency above 90 days ended 482 8.4 15.2 15.1 a more conservative 2016 at a level below 2015. The Basel 426 7.6 posture in relation ratio ended 2016 at 15.1%, with to loan concession, Level I Capital at 11.2%, higher than reflecting a drop of the minimum set out by the Brazilian 7.1% in the expanded Central Bank. credit portfolio when 2013 2014 2015 2013 2016 2014 2015 2016 2013 2014 2015 2016 compared with the The Bank has a diversified portfolio previous year, focusing of businesses in its Retail (Consumer on the profitability of the business Financing), Corporate Bank and Wealth by increasing operational efficiency Management. It should be noted that and diversification of revenue. These the retail segment operates mainly measures allowed the institution to in auto finance loans (multi-brand end 2016 with net income of BRL 426 dealers), where the bank has historically Portfolio million and shareholders’ equity of BRL held a market leadership position. 56 Annual Report 2016 {G4-EC1} Portfolio Portfolio www.vcimentos.com.br Balancing the scale With geographical diversification and operational efficiency, the company partially mitigates the crisis of unprecedented proportions in the Brazilian Market V otorantim Cimentos (VC) has operations in 14 countries and is one of the 10 largest in the world in this secDifficulties in the Brazilian business environment were partially offset by the company’s international operations, with more than 400 professionals in the entire construction chain (construction workers, retailers, store clerks, construction compain the US, Turkey, and Argentina, as part of the investment plan to be completed in 2018. Other relevant initiatives in tor, with total production capacity highlights for the North American nies, consumers and associations, 2016 include the increase in the of 57.6 million tons of cement market, which registered higher among others), the new portfolio co-processing rate (which replaces per year. In 2016, VC was directly prices and volumes sold, reflecting offers different products for each the use of fossil fuels) from 16% affected by the drop in demand the recovery of the US economy type of construction work, acto 21%, and consolidated a new in the Brazilian market, which and a milder winter. Combined cording to the specific needs and business unit, created in order to accounted for 50% of its revenue. with the efforts to optimize costs demands of customers. In this way, develop new uses for raw mateIn order to minimize the effects of and obtain greater operational retail sales and buying decisions rials and alternative fuels (AFR). the economic downturn, the comefficiency, the results in the region by construction professionals and The initiative already allowed for pany took measures toward cost were boosted, accounting for consumers became more assertive, the advance in the use of waste optimization and operational ef35% of the company’s consoliensuring better productivity at the from other industries and is part ficiency. These initiatives involved dated EBITDA. VCEAA operations worksite and of the products. of an investment plan that aims to adjustments in its organizational (Europe, Africa, and Asia), despite Throughout this period, anachieve, by 2020, a level of 40% in Highlights structure, a robust internal conpolitical instability in some locaother important milestone was the the use of non-fossil fuels in its Bra▶▶ Increased use of alternative ▶▶ Reinforced corporate ▶▶ First company in the industry in ▶▶ VC received 33 national and trol process, and developing a tions, recorded improvements in inauguration of two new cement zilian units. Furthermore, by 2016, fuels in Brazil (17% to 21%); governance by formalizing Brazil to obtain environmental international awards and zero-based budget in order to the results and in profitability in production units: the first in the the company continued generating the Executive Committee statements through The recognitions in 2016, among ▶▶ Focus on the client ensure that production adjusts to almost every country in the region, city of Primavera, in the state of energy using residual heat from ceand including two new International EPD System, them, the inclusion of the demonstrated by the independent members in the which assesses environmental company as the highlight market conditions. Coupled with with highlights for Morocco, Spain, Pará, with annual production cament production process, by means improvement in NPS(Net Board of Directors; impacts throughout the in the “Building Materials” initiatives to improve working and Tunisia. pacity of 1.2 million tons; and the of a technology that yielded savings Promoter Score) results; product life cycle; sector in the 2016 Exame capital, disposal of nonstrategic In 2016, the company introother in Yacuces, in Bolivia, with of 38% in energy consumption at ▶▶ Reinforced the antiSustainability Guide. corruption and compliance assets and active management of duced to the retail market the production capacity of 1 million the plant in China and 18% at the programLaunched the Guide to liabilities, the company managed most innovative product portfotons per year. Despite the economplant in India. ▼ Best Environmental Practices in to retain its level of excellence and lio in its 83-year history. As the ic scenario in Brazil, the company Mining in Karstic Areas; ensure its competitiveness. result of a survey that involved maintained its expansion projects Environmental Social 13.733 Management Investment Employees 27.3 mi 27,7 mi Own 5,3mi 7Institute ,0 mi 87% 13% 352 operating 33,8 million tons 9,2 million m 3 1,6 million tons 24 ,7 million tons CapexOpex menwomen units of cement sold of concrete sold of mortar sold of aggregates sold Resources and Others 58 Annual Report 2016 {G4-9, G4-EN3, G4-EN31, EN23, G4-SO1} {G4-9, G4-EN31, G4-SO1} Annual Report 2016 59 Portfolio Portfolio www.vmetais.com.br Growth with competitiveness Benefited by the global demand for zinc and driven by greater efficiency in the operation, the company records positive results and continues to expand assets W ith nine industrial operations in Brazil and Peru, in addition to projects and mine exploration acWith the favorable price scenario for metals such as zinc, which accounts for over 70% of its revenues, the company is infor a longer period of time. In this sense, in June 2016, VM promoted a change in its organizational structure to ensure increase in Brazilian exports of galvanized steel by the steel mills and by the direct share of the company in international markets, tivities concentrated in these two vesting in expanding its business focus on the mining and metaltaking advantage of its trading countries, the strategy of Votoranand broadening its current activilurgy activities of zinc, copper and infrastructure, with offices in the tim Metais (VM) is to grow in minties. The goal is to ensure that the other co-products. Because of this US and Austria. ing by extending the useful life of operations are even more competmeasure, the assets of aluminum In addition to favorable prices the current assets and developing itive in the international market, in and nickel are now managed by and increased sales, the results new projects. addition to remaining in operation Companhia Brasileira de Alumínio. were also driven by greater use of Highlights Also last year, Votorantim ore concentrates produced in own ▶▶ New organizational structure, ▶▶ Creation of the Project ▶▶ Identification and evaluation ▶▶ Characterization of the Metais increased its shareholding units, in comparison with importwith the creation of Mining Development and Execution of Strategic Risks, which main social indicators of the interest in Milpo from 60% to ed raw materials. With this, it was and Metallurgy departments, Department, to guarantee the may affect the continuity locations in which it operates, 80% and advanced in the financial possible to obtain a 2% reduction aiming to promote integration implementation of the growth and strategy of VM, and the the first step towards meeting of the company’s two main strategy; beginning the of development the goal of 90% effectiveness feasibility studies of the projects in the cost of products sold, comactivities in Brazil and Peru; of mitigation plans for in community relations and Aripuanã in Mato Grosso, and pared with 2015. ▶▶ Consolidation of governance, these risks; development plans by 2025. Caçapava do Sul, in Rio Grande Considering these external with the establishment of the Board of Directors at the do Sul. and internal factors, in 2016 the company’s headquarters in In Brazil, the company’s most company showed improvement Luxembourg; important market, sales of zinc in main financial indicators comwere positively impacted by the pared with the previous year. ▼ Gestão Environmental Social Investimento 14.602 5.561 Ambiental Management Social Investment Emp.Fixos Employees 95,3 mi 89.7 mi Own 4,6mi 34Institute ,6 mi 89% 11% 16 operating 416,900 tons 58,300 tons 41,600 tons 18 startups in the CapexOpex menwomen units of contained zinc produced of lead produced of copper produced Open Innovation Program Resources and Others 60 Annual Report 2016 {G4-9, G4-EN31, G4-SO1} {G4-9, G4-EN31, G4-LA6, G4-SO1} Annual Report 2016 61 Portfolio Portfolio www.aluminiocba.com.br Ready for the future CBA implements new strategies in order to become a national industry benchmark in aluminium solutions and services. T he focus of Companhia Brasileira de Alumínio (CBA) in 2016 was transformation. CBA started the year with advantage of the opportunities of the two distinct markets. Primary products include bauxite mining and alumina protransportation and packaging segments and continue to serve strategic clients in construction and consumer goods. In this market, In 2016, despite measures toward re-adjusting cost and production capacity, the retraction in the Brazilian market led the mission of implementing its duction (raw materials for glass, the capacity for innovation and to financial results below those new business strategies, approved refractories, and thermal ceramics proximity to the client is critical. expected by CBA. Compared with by the Board of Directors of Votoindustries, among others) and priTherefore, in 2016, the company 2015, there was a reduction in rantim S.A. at the end of 2015. In mary aluminum, sold in the form restructured the commercial area, the volume traded in the market July, its separation from Votoranof ingots, billets, caster rolls, slabs, which included incorporating the for transformed products, which tim Metais was announced, which and rebar. Since these products concept of key account manageforced the company to increase Highlights will now focus on the international have prices defined in the London ment, and creating a research production of primary products, ▶▶ Creation of CBA’s Board ▶▶ Incorporation of the nickel ▶▶ Organizational restructuring ▶▶ Mapping of critical market, while CBA will concenMetal Exchange, characterizing and development department which are less profitable. ▼ of Directors and other business, with production of the entire CBA starting with competencies for the trate its efforts in the production them as commodities, the focus that works with clients to create administration and governance operations temporarily the implementation of new new business model for in Brazil and in the development of of this area is the quest for opcustomized solutions and new structures, such as supply chain suspended, and upholding strategies and separation from transformed products; new markets for aluminum. erational excellence, through cost applications for aluminum. and a finance committee; social and environmental Votorantim Metais; ▶▶ Implementation of the After these changes, CBA control, efficiency in consumption Following this new way of opcommitments with ▶▶ Evolution of the Operational Votorantim Development stakeholders; began working in two business of inputs, growing adoption of erating, CBA began dozens of new Excellence in all areas of the System (SDV) at 100% of the areas, each with its own specific technology, and process stability. product development projects, one primary products business; company’s operational level. strategy and individually calcuIn transformed products with of which is already in full operalated results. With this, the comhigher added value, CBA’s strategy tion: the production of aluminum pany focuses greatly on taking is to increase market share in the frame kits for solar energy panels. Gestão Environmental Social Investimento 14.602 5.203 Ambiental Management Social Investment Emp.Fixos Employees 22,1 mi 79,4 mi Own 1,7mi 1Institute ,6 mi 92% 8% 9 operating 342,000 tons 1.34 million tons 12.9 million tons 8.4 million tons CapexOpex menwomen units of molten aluminum produced of bauxite processed of nickel carbonate of electrolytic nickel Resources and Others 62 Annual Report 2016 {G4-9, G4-EN31, G4-SO1} {G4-9, G4-EN31, G4-SO1} Annual Report 2016 63 Portfolio Portfolio www.vsiderurgia.com.br Factory of ideas Employees generate 10,000 ideas for reducing costs and improving the company’s efficiency through the implementation of measures to ensure process operational stability in 2016. V otorantim Siderurgia (VS) is one of the three largest producers of long steel in Brazil, and also controls Long steel is mainly used in civil construction and mechanical engineering, in the form of rebar, wire, screens, profiles, bars, wire mainly in Brazil. As a result of this scenario, the business emphasis was on cost management and operational stability. In Brazil, in the 2017 EBITDA through their implementation. In February 2017, Votorantim Siderurgia announced the implePazdelRío, Colombia’s only interods, and other products. one of the strategies was to make mentation of a contract with Arcegrated steelworks, and AcerBrag, In the three countries where the productions at the Resende lorMittal, still subject to regulatory Argentina’s second largest proit operates, market demand was and Barra Mansa units in the approvals (see more details ducer of long steel products. lower than expected in 2016, southern region of Rio de Janeiro on page 55). more flexible, by rotating the staff For the year 2017, VS projects to avoid loss in productivity and that the challenging scenario in Highlights skilled labor. Brazil will continue, which will ▶▶ Achieving the production quality, sustainability, safety, ▶▶ The Youth in Action Program, ▶▶ The Sistema de Capacitação These aspects were the object require maintaining strict cost goal of at least 80,000 and maintenance management in its first edition, provided Conecte (Connect Training of a campaign to foster idea gencontrol of costs and conservative tons at Resende steelworks systems; an opportunity to develop System) has been extended to the eration, which invited all VS Brasil financial management. In the long contributed to reducing 18 of the company’s young entire company, making it part of ▶▶ The VS+ Segurança (More production costs and talents, who received training the corporate education structure; employees to come up with ideas term, projections point to a graduSafety) Project has helped improving operational stability; in several skills, executive for efficiency and cost reduction al recovery in demand, in order to raise awareness and best ▶▶ Implementing the VS Audit mentoring, and team project projects. In all, approximately meet the needs of the infrastruc▶▶ The matrix management safety practices through three Committee; development; model, based on the “Process action pillars: infrastructure, 10,000 ideas were generated, ture deficit in the countries where ▶▶ Structuring the VS Volunteer Owners” concept, has led the management, and people. of which 4,000 were selected by it operates. ▼ three countries to perform Program in Brazil and the company, which estimates a AcerBrag. synergy and standardize potential impact of BRL 20 million Gestão Environmental Social Investimento 14.602 4.908 Ambiental Social Emp.Fixos $ Management Investment Employees 14,9 mi 25,3 mi Own 900 k 2Institute ,7 mi 89% 11% 9 operating 21% reduction +240 participants 1.64 million tons 10. 2% reduction in specific consumption (BRL/t) CapexOpex menwomen units in water consumption in the Volunteering Program of long steel produced Resources and Others in the waste disposal process 64 Annual Report 2016 {G4-9, G4-EN31, G4-SO1} {G4-9, EN8, G4-EN31, EN23, G4-SO1} Annual Report 2016 65 Portfolio Portfolio www.venergia.com.br Energy to grow In a year marked by the first investment in wind energy, the company has consolidated its position as one of the largest suppliers in Brazil C reated in 1996 to provide the energy supply for Votorantim companies, Votorantim Energia (VE) began supconstruction of a wind farm in Piauí (see table below), the year 2016 was highlighted by the search for competitiveness in Votorantim’s energy assets management, including managing energy surplus in steel and cement production operations. The intelligent marketing of this surplus generated significant financial gains. plying external clients in 2013, In 2016, VE also began impleand since then has established VE BEGINS CONSTRUCTION OF SEVEN WIND FARMS menting the Our Steps Program, itself as one of the main elecIn 2016, Votorantim Energia announced its entry into the field of which reviews and standardizes wind generation, which uses the force of the wind as an energy tric utilities companies in Brazil. plant management processes, source, representing an energy source with low environmental Regardless of the client profile based on best internal and exterimpact. currently nearly 200 VE seeks nal practices. It is estimated that to provide supply stability at a The seven wind farms in Piauí, with total investments at BRL 1.13 billion, installed capacity of 206 MW, and 98 wind turbines, are this initiative will ensure greater Highlights competitive price. already under construction and are expected to start operating in availability of the plants, allowing ▶▶ Improvement of the company’s ▶▶ Environmental licensing of reaching the maximum level ▶▶ Expansion of projects focused VE also works in energy as2018. for an additional generation of compliance and risk the Ventos do Piauí project in of operational excellence and on environmental education and sets management, which includes The energy to be produced in this park has already been sold, at 0.5% of energy. management programs, which record time, complying with maintenance. preservation of water resources, Votorantim’s 32 hydroelectric the 22nd New Energy Auction, promoted by the Energy Trading VE has an increasingly importresulted in the mapping of 13 all regulatory requirements aiming at the reduction of solid ▶▶ Review of the company’s Chamber (CCEE), and will be allocated to the regulated market strategic risks and 48 events to for securing the permits and waste in the rivers in which the plants and five cogeneration ant role in Votorantim’s portfolio. strategy for the coming years, be managed licenses required for the start of plant’s dams are located. plants. In this area, the company beginning January 2018, under a 20-year contract. Approximately The company manages 2.6 GW, with emphasis on the product the work works to improve processes and 10% of this energy may be used to attract new clients to selfwhich corresponds to approxi▶▶ Training and integration portfolio and the conception ▶▶ Completion of the Digital production of wind power. activities of 39 company leaders ▶▶ Launching of the Nossos Passos of a plan to modernize the Transformation project, which adopts modern environmental mately 2% of the energy generthrough the VE Leader program. (Our Steps) Program, with the technological platforms promoted debates about the control technologies, providing ated in Brazil. Consequently, the objective of structuring the incorporation and influence of new an efficient, low cost operation. future holds many opportunities plant’s management model and technologies in the VE business. In addition to beginning for growth.. ▼ $ Gestão Environmental Social Investimento 14.602 486 Ambiental Management Social Investment Emp.Fixos Employees 400 k 7 ,0 mi 700 Own  k ,7 mi 83% 1Institute 17% 34 operating 1.082 MW 571 MW increase by10% in the volume of energy 7 wind farms CapexOpex menwomen units Commercialization of energy Power auctions under construction Resources and Others sold in 2016 66 Annual Report 2016 {G4-9, G4-EN31, G4-SO1} {G4-9, EN22 , G4-EN31, EN23, G4-SO1} Annual Report 2016 67 Portfolio Portfolio www.fibria.com.br Innovation Applied to the Business Developing non-forest products and services opens new prospects for action and has already begun to bring positive results I nnovation, sustainability and the search for new businesses are strategic fronts for Fibria to continue growthe development of bioproducts, biocomposites and biofuels from forest biomass, among other initiatives that begin promoting allowed Fibria to double its annual pulp productivity per hectare over the past 40 years a benchmark for any company or country in the Other processes and products in the implementation phase follow the same trend, and some studies in progress are already showing great ing and maintaining its global structural changes in its mode of world. Landscape management potential to significantly impact the leadership position in the pulp production. and cultivation in a mosaic system company (see box with highlights). industry. The company follows a Pioneering development of euhelp ensure the balance of the ecoThese initiatives led Fibria to be diversification route that includes calyptus cloning, for example, has systems in which the company oprecognized in the second edition of erates. The eucalyptus plantation, the Brazilian ranking of innovative combined with agriculture, helped companies, prepared by the Valor Fibria distribute and generate inEconômico journal the company Highlights come among small producers and ranked 31st in the top 100 and was ▶▶ Fibria’s investment in 2016 ▶▶ Issue of a USD 700 million ▶▶ The Colmeias project, a Fibria ▶▶ With a lighter body frame, forestry partners, benefiting over the only one in the forestry sector to amounted to BRL 72 million Green Bond for projects initiative in partnership with Fibria’s new trucks consume less 6,000 families a social commitappear on the list. Another important focused on forest 67 associations of beekeepers, fuel, produce less air emissions, ▶▶ In December 2016, a total of ment that also involves beekeeping recognition was the achievement of management, restoration of produced 1,600 tons of honey, and have a 10% higher wood 8,283 professionals worked native areas, and water and of which 500 tons were transporting capacity than the and the production of handicrafts, 14th place in Fortune’s “Change simultaneously at the peak of waste management at the exported to other countries rest of the fleet among other actions. And, finally, the World” ranking, as well as rethe Horizons 2 project. In all, company’s facilities and global new wood transportation technolomaining on the list of companies 77% of the physical execution ▶▶ Fibria acquires stake in ▶▶ In an unprecedented contract for operations. of construction was completed Canadian CelluForce, world creation of value, executed by gies were created, with a reduction included in the Dow Jones Global in the period leader in the production of companies in the same sector, in the structure and weight of the Sustainability Index (DJSI) also the nanocrystalline cellulose Fibria sold a volume of 478,000 trucks and a gain in volume of only one in the sector to be included tons of Klabin pulp in 2016 nearly 18%. on the list.▼ Gestão Environmental Social Investimento 14.602 4.309 Ambiental Management Social Investment Emp.Fixos Employees 89,3 mi 84,9 mi 18 Own  ,7 mi 6,3 mi 85% Institute 15% 17 operating 5,02 million tons 38 countries 35% of native forests 8,3% interest CapexOpex menwomen units of pulp produced Exports in 2016 intended for preservation in the CelluForce Resources and Others* *Does not include external captured value 68 Annual Report 2016 {G4-9, G4-EN31, G4-SO1} {G4-9, EN8, G4-EN15, G4-EN31, EN23, G4-SO1} Annual Report 2016 69 Portfolio Portfolio www.citrosuco.com.br Record production We posted record sales of NFC (Not-FromConcentrate Orange Juice) juice in the 2015-2016 harvest, 10% more than in the previous period C itrosuco ended the 2015-2016 harvest with a new record in production and sales of NFC juice, 10% above the previous period. Continuous efforts to improve efficiency in the production chain also led to a 20% gain in productivity in land transportation of juice and a 36% reduction in the amount of water used to spray orchards. In corporate governance and companies. In 2016, this front gave rise to a project with Legado das Águas Reserva Votorantim that led to the use of bioengineerorganizational culture, Citrosuing to obtain renewable products. co has been strengthened by Also in the area of innovation, improvement of the compliance the company continues to excel in and risk management programs controlling greening, a disease which, together with the internal that affects orchards all over the audit process, support manageworld, including producers like the ment in conducting business and United States Citrosuco’s infecHighlights in the long-term planning for the tion rate is less than 1%, far below ▶▶ Investments of USD 53 million, ▶▶ Implementation of the ▶▶ Use of the Tamarixia Radiata , a ▶▶ A 36% reduction in the volume company. the rates for plantations in Florida, of which USD 18 million were Citrosuco Development System species of wasp, a natural enemy of water used for the application In the field of research and for example. geared towards increasing (SDC), a program that guides of the insect that transmits of pesticides; innovation, studies focus on the In the last harvest, Citrosuco production capacity and professional development and greening a disease that affects ▶▶ Renewable sources accounted research. promotes recognition, in a fair orange orchards worldwide, search for new applications and also achieved the silver level in the for 51% of the total energy way, contributing to the high helping to maintain the infection orange products, mainly in soluSustainable Agriculture Initiative ▶▶ Launch of and training in the consumed; performance of the organization. rate below 1%. tions for the greater added value (SAI) Platform standards for 100% New Code of Conduct for 100% of employees; ▶▶ 100% of the agricultural market. Another important front is of its agricultural production and production is certified by the developing solutions that include the Rainforest Alliance Certified Sustainable Agriculture Initiative sustainability principles and the seal for three of its farms▼ (SAI) Platform; search for synergies with partner Gestão Environmental Social Investimento 14.602 5.388 7.384 seasonal Ambiental Management Social Investment Emp.Fixos Employees employees 3,8 mi 8 ,3 mi 1 ,1 mi 75% 25% 47 operating 69% 31% +100 countries 5 ships 45own CapexOpex Own Resources menwomen units menwomen Exports in 2016 (4 own and 1 multi-cargo) trucks * In operations outside Brazil there are 213 other permanent employees 70 Annual Report 2016 {G4-9, EN8, G4-EN31, G4-SO1} {G4-9, G4-EN3, G4-EN31, G4-SO1} Annual Report 2016 71 Portfolio Portfolio www.bancovotorantim.com.br Strict controls To minimize macroeconomic scenario, Banco Votorantim prioritizes profitability and is more conservative in granting credit O ne of the ten largest Brazilian banks, with a total of BRL 103 billion in assets at the end of 2016, the bank has corporate operations, service to large companies, investment management, securities brokerage, asset remained at an acceptable level. Other measures that brought positive returns were strengthening of insurance brokerage, In 2016, Banco Votorantim also adhered to the Equator Principles, an international voluntary commitment that gathers criteria Banco Votorantim continues its management, and private bankefficient cost management, for the social and environmental strategy of consolidating itself ing services to high net worth treasury operations, and the analysis of granting credit. By as one of the country’s leading individuals. relentless search for an increase adhering to this commitment, financial institutions, based on In retail, the institution operin revenues from services that the institution reinforces its practhe profitability of current and ates in the areas of credit cards, generated results without capital tices in this area, collaborating new businesses, increasing operinsurance brokerage, and payroll investments. for the social and environmenational efficiency, and strengthloans, as well as financing used The year was also highlighttal sustainability of projects it Highlights ening synergies with Banco do vehicles, a niche in which it has ed by the change of the comfinances ▼ ▶▶ Implementing social and ▶▶ Training of 753 retail ▶▶ Establishing new commercial ▶▶ Launching of the Internal Brasil, which acquired 50% of its market leadership. pany’s CEO, as a result of the environmental guidelines when managers to replicate financial partnerships, in order to create Multiplier Program in 2016, capital stock in 2009 the other In 2016, considering the Brastructured process for succession selecting suppliers, intensifying education with employees and a new loyalty card and lines which involved the definition 50% are held by Votorantim Fizilian scenario of unemployment of the presidency at the Bank research about bonded and clients; Establishment of new of credit for students and by senior management of nanças S.A. and drop in income, Banco Votoand by the application of comchild labor, environmental commercial partnerships, for startups. several strategic aspects To continue growing, in rerantim prioritized the profitabilmercial efficiency technology, crime, and legal compliance; the creation of a new loyalty (Credit, Derivatives, Risks, etc.) ▶▶ Growth of revenue by 16% from cent years, Banco Votorantim has ity of its client portfolio, instead adopting geolocation tools and card and for financing lines for and relied on employees to ▶▶ Offsetting greenhouse gas services that do not compromise students and startups. carry out internal training. been seeking to increase the diof growth. applications that increased the emissions from the FIA capital (Basel), compared with versification of its businesses, in While executing a conserproductivity of service managers, Sustainability Fund, the first the previous year. both Wholesale and Retail. vative credit concession policy, increasing the time available for zero carbon fund in Brazil; In the first line of business, the default rates of its portfolio prospecting. Social Investimento 14.602 4.045 Social Investment Emp.Fixos Employees $ $ Adherence 150 k 5.1 mi 53% 47% 81 units R$8 ,4 billion R$103 billion 426 million 15,1% to the Equator Principles OwnIncentivized menwomen in net equity in assets million in net income Basel Index Resources 72 Annual Report 2016 {G4-9, G4-EN31, G4-SO1} {G4-9, G4-EN15, G4-EN31, G4-EN32, G4-SO1, G4-SO9} Annual Report 2016 73 Votorantim S.A About the Report About the Report Votorantim S.A CONTENT pillars address strategic issues the Organization for Economic to the definition of the content for Votorantim and present maCo-operation and Developin the company’s communicacro-guidelines for conducting ment (OECD). tion channels, including this GUIDELINES business, observing relevant The purpose of the study 2016 Integrated Report. The issues from a financial, social was also to evaluate the efconsulting company made and environmental standpoint. fectiveness of this communigeneral and specific recomThe information disclosed in cation to external audiences, mendations and identified this report also addresses the including investors, as well as some indicators that deserve An American consulting firm analyzes the and the International Integrarelevant issues identified in the to identify the connections bespecial attention from the porreports and communication channels of ted Reporting Council (IIRC), latest materiality process, from tween the sustainability indicatfolio manager, since they are an international organization 2012, through consultations tors and the business strategy also considered by investors: the holding company in order to assess created to set forth a reporof various stakeholders, instiof Votorantim S.A.. Finally, the greenhouse gas emissions; air the relevance of the reported indicators ting standard for financial and tutional investors, the finanCornestone Capital study also quality; energy management; non-financial information. The cial sector, experts, the media, mapped the correlations of the water management; and heT assumptions of the UN Global NGOs and public agencies. The indicators with UN’s Sustainaalth, safety and well-being of he 2016 Votorantim S.A. Citrosuco, Fibria and Banco Compact and the Organization material aspects are correlated ble Development Goals (SDGs) employees. Report contains VotoVotorantim). for Economic Co-operation and with the management practiand suggested the inclusion In this sense, a section of rantim S.A.’s performance and The publication covers the Development (OECD) were also ces defined in DNA Votoranof a new set of indicators that the study reads: “The inclusion main strategic actions in the period from January 1st to Deconsidered. tim, to ensure that important considered material aspects for of these indicators, with the period, including financial and cember 31st, 2016, with the The content of this report issues for strategic audiences the company and its investee reporting of detailed metrics, non-financial data and consoliexception of information from was also based on the docuare in line with the company’s companies. would allow investors to undated information of the eight Citrosuco, which refers to the ment DNA Votorantim, which management. The consultation materials derstand the company’s procompanies that are part of the 2014/2015 harvest, which ensystematized the company’s The financial data in the used included the Integrated gress on material sustainability Votorantim conglomerate (Voded in June 2016. practices and processes, stan2016 Votorantim S.A. Report Report for 2014, the Manageissues through its subsidiaries.” torantim Cimentos, Votorantim The report was drafted acdardized its governance prinwas audited by PwC, and the ment Report of the same year, Cornerstone Capital’s work Metais, Companhia Brasileira cording to the guidelines of ciples and established five manon-financial data by Limited quarterly financial reports, and was based on a tool called de Alumínio, Votorantim Sithe Global Reporting Initiative nagement pillars for investee Assurance. The publication is online platforms that address the Sustainability Accounting derurgia, Votorantim Energia, (GRI), G4 version, core option, companies (see table). These available in Portuguese, English corporate and sustainability inStandards Board (SASB), comand Spanish. formation (such as the www. monly used to identify material votorantim.com.br portal), aspects for companies in many THE 5 MANAGEMENT PILLARS among other channels and industries and widely accessed A study on indicators internal documents. The asby US investors because of its Guidelines that represent the managing models of the holding company and of the Votorantim investee companies In 2016, Votorantim S.A. sessment also considered DNA focus on sustainability aspects. commissioned a study from US Votorantim, a document conIn the study, the consulasset management consulting solidated in 2014 that systemating company also included firm Cornerstone Capital to tized the company’s practices a list of additional indicators assess the alignment of sustaiand processes, standardized its that should be reported in the nability indicators published in governance principles and estanext editions of VSA’s integraFINANCIAL VALUE GENERATION OPERATIONAL PEOPLE AND IMAGE AND its communications with key blished five management pillars ted reports, associated with MANAGEMENT – Establishes the vision, EXCELLENCE ORGANIZATION REPUTATION international standards that for the holding company and the material aspects of the Guarantees the financial identifies the potential Pursues constant Preserves the Preserves and guide corporate reporting for the investee companies. operation sectors of the subdiscipline that enables value of the business improvement of the Votorantim culture promotes the image such as the Global Reporting Although it is part of a presidiaries. It should be noted, the desired risk-return and translates it into procedures through through leaders who and reputation of Initiative (GRI), the Internatioliminary and initial process for however, that there were improfile; concrete plans that relevant practices and embody their values and Votorantim with its nal Integrated Reporting Coudefining the materiality of VSA, portant changes in the scope align and mobilize the synergies among the beliefs; various stakeholders. ncil (IIRC), the assumptions of the work of Cornerstone Capiof the annual reports of the organization; Companies; the UN Global Compact and tal had important contributions portfolio managers and of the 74 Annual Report 2016 {G4-17, G4-18, G4-19, G4-20, G4-21} {G4-18, G4-19, G4-20, G4-21} Annual Report 2016 75 Votorantim S.A About the Report About the Report About the Report GRI Index GRI INDICATORS investee companies, especially holding company, in turn, bein this Integrated Report 2016, after 2014, in a way that the gan to prioritize actions and such as the inclusion of water, publications would reflect the information associated with waste, and air quality indicators management and governanthe nature of its portfolio ma(G4 EN8, G4 EN21, G4 EN22, External ce changes then undertaken nagement activity, focusing on and G4 EN23) and greater deAssurance GRI Description Page(s) (p. 77,78) throughout the organization. strategic issues, governance tailing of emissions and enerIn this context, the VSA and risk management, among gy indicators (G3 EN3 and G4 1. Strategy and Analysis report no longer discloses the other matters relevant to the EN15). ▼ G4-1 Statement from the most senior 4,5 operational information and business as a whole. decision-maker of the organization indicators of the subsidiaries, Nonetheless, some Corsince they began to produce nerstone Capital recommenda2. Organizational Profile their own annual reports. The tions were already considered G4-3 Name of the organization Votorantim S.A. 1,8 G4-4 Primary brands, products and/or In 2016, important movements took place in order to adapt the governance services structure to the reality of the companies’ portfolio manager and operations. HOW WAS THE STUDY CONDUCTED In April, Votorantim S.A. sold part of its interest in the subsidiary VMH. In July, Companhia Brasileira de Alumínio ( CBA ) incorporated the net accounting assets corresponding to the net equity of VM Holding SA (VMSA), which until then was controlled by Votorantim S.A.. This corporate restructuring is part of the strategy 1. EVALUATION OF SUSTAINABILITY INDICATORS 2.  CORRELATION OF THE defined by the holding company, which includes CBA and VMSA, which aims to Review of the alignment of sustainability indicators with the main practices INDICATORS WITH THE SDGS reduce administrative and financial costs, as well as optimize business management. accepted in the market (GRI and IIRC) that serve as the basis for preparing Mapping of Votorantim’s As such, the following indicators contain information broken down by: Votorantim’s Integrated Report. business strategies through its Votorantim Cimentos, Votorantim Metais Holding (formerly Votorantim Metais), Companhia Brasileira de Alumínio, Votorantim Siderurgia, communications and publications, Votorantim Energia, Fibria, Citrosuco, and Banco Votorantim. GRI IIRC OECD e UNGC and a correlation of the company’s indicators and actions with the G4-5 Location of organization’s headquarters São Paulo, SP, Brazil Sustainable Development Goals G4-6 Number and names of countries where 12,13 KEY INDICATORS (SDGs), adopted by the UN in the organization operates September 2015. G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form Votorantim S.A. is a private equity company, the holding company of the Votorantim companies. It operates in the areas of cement, polymetals, aluminum, long steel, energy, pulp, orange juice. 15, 63 3. INFORMATION ON SUSTAINABILITY IN 4. SUSTAINABILITY COMMUNICATION FOR INVESTORS G4-8 Markets served 12,13 COMMUNICATION CHANNELS Evaluation of the indicator’s materiality for the company’s G4-9 Scale of the organization 12, 13, 58, 59, 60, 61, 62, 63, 64, 65, 66, 67, 68, 69, 70, 71, 72, 73 Assessment of consistency and clarity of the information business strategy. The basis used were guidelines in published in the various reporting platforms and in the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB), G4-10 Total number of employees 9 communication channels with investors. The analysis also developed to guide American companies on social and G4-11 Percentage of total employees 88% of our own employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements. considered traditional financial reporting (Bloomberg, S&P, environmental issues. covered by collective bargaining and Moody’s) and initiatives such as the Carbon Disclosure agreements Project (CDP). G4-12 Organization’s supply chain G4-13 Significant changes during the 21,55 reporting period regarding the organization’s size, structure, 5. RECOMMENDATIONS FOR IMPROVING INDICATORS ownership, or its supply chain As a result of the evaluations, the consulting company has drawn up a list of recommendations to improve the relevance of the indicators reported in Votorantim S.A.’s Report. Indicators common to all investee companies may be included in all communications, given their relevance to investors. This is a way of clarifying the connection between Votorantim S.A.’s commitments and its business strategy. 76 Annual Report 2016 {G4-18, G4-19, G4-20, G4-21} Annual Report 2016 77 GRI Index Gri Indicators Gri Indicators GRI Index External External Assurance Assurance GRI Description Page(s) (p. 77,78) GRI Description Page(s) (p. 77,78) 3. Commitment to External Initiatives 5. Stakeholder Engagement G4-14 Whether and how the precautionary We have a structured risk management platform, which encompasses the risks of G4-24 List of stakeholder groups engaged approach or principle is addressed by processes, compliance and products, always aiming to mitigate the environmental by the organization the organization impacts caused by our activities. G4-25 Basis for identification and selection All operations follow internal protocols and the applicable legislation for of stakeholders with whom to environmental controls, and the controls of the licensing of our operations are engage held in a centralized system (GLM). New production processes or completely new operations undergo a strict risk assessment protocol, including not only the impacts G4-26 Organization’s approach to and their mitigation, but also the assessment of available technologies with their stakeholder engagement levels of resource consumption and emissions per metric ton produced. G4-27 Key topics and concerns that have In addition, we always carry out studies and debates with the communities been raised through stakeholder surrounding our operations to evaluate the risks and effectiveness of the measures engagement, and how the implemented. organization has responded Regarding our products, they are all in accordance with the established legal standards and in line with the best market practices, and whose material data 6. Report Profile sheets are available on our companies’ websites. G4-28 Reporting period This report contains information for 2016, with the exception of information from G4-15 Externally developed economic, Since 2011, we have been signatories of the Global Compact, an initiative of the Citrosuco, which refers to the 2015/2016 harvest. environmental and social charters, United Nations (UN) to mobilize the corporate community for the adoption of principles, or other initiatives to internationally accepted fundamental values and practices in human rights, labor G4-29 Date of most recent previous report Year of 2015 which the organization subscribes or relations, environment, and fight against corruption. G4-30 Reporting cycle Annual which it endorses In 2011, the Internal Controls Project was initiated, and in 2014, Votorantim S.A. was certified under Sarbanes-Oxley (SOx) by independent auditors. G4-31 Contact point for questions regarding 80 the report or its contents G4-16 Memberships of associations (such as ANA PAULA DE MEDEIROS CARRACEDO Vice President of the Amcham industry associations) and national or Compliance and Risk Management Committee; Member of the Advisory Committee G4-32 Report the ‘in accordance’ option Core option and Limited Assurance Report. international advocacy organizations of the Anti-Corruption Working Group of the Global Compact; Member of the the organization has chosen, the GRI Committee of the IBGC Corporate Governance Congress Content Index for the chosen option, and the reference to the External DAVID CANASSA Vice President of the Theme Sub-committee on Energy and Assurance Report Climate Change of CEBDS (Brazilian Business Council for Sustainable Development) and Council Member of COSEMA (Higher Council for the Environment) of FIESP G4-33 Organization’s policy and current When Votorantim’s Board approved the adoption of the GRI guidelines in 2008, practice with regard to seeking one of the conditions set by the Board was that all externally published reports 4. Material Aspects and Boundaries external assurance for the report should undergo external audits, and that figures should only be reported if a corresponding management control process was in place. G4-17 Entities included in the organization’s 9,74 consolidated financial statements or 6. Governance equivalent documents G4-34 Governance structure of the 21, 22, 34 G4-18 Process for defining the report 74, 75, 76 organization content and the Aspect Boundaries G4-19 Material Aspects identified in the 74, 75, 76 X 7. Ethics and Integrity process for defining report content G4-56 Organization’s values, principles, 6, 11, 25, 29 G4-20 For each material Aspect, report 74, 75, 76 X standards and norms of behavior the Aspect Boundary within the organization G4-21 For each material Aspect, report 74, 75, 76 X the Aspect Boundary outside the organization G4-22 Effect of any restatements of External Assurance 77 X information provided in previous reports G4-23 Significant changes from previous Significant changes in scope and boundaries are indicated in the content index reporting periods in the Scope and comments referring to the indicators associated with each aspect. 74, 75, 76 Aspect Boundaries 78 Annual Report 2016 Annual Report 2016 79 GRI Index Economic Performance Economic Performance GRI Index ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE Breakdown of value added (R$ million) 2014 2015 2016 Distribution of value added ASPECT: ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE Personnel and payroll charges 4,087 4,644 4380 Direct remuneration 2579 2,939 2,704 Benefits 492 602 629 EC1 DIRECT ECONOMIC VALUE GENERATED AND DISTRIBUTED Social charges 1016 1,103 3533 Additional data and/or DMA p. 6, 51, 52, 53, 54, 55, 56 Taxes, fees and contributions 5,600 5,984 3,533 Breakdown of value added Federal 2,632 2,750 2,085 (R$ million) 2014 2015 2016 State 3,085 2,951 2,298 DIRECT ECONOMIC VALUE GENERATED Municipal 32 25 18 Revenue Deferred taxes (149) 258 -868 Sales of products and services 33,192 37,006 31,156 Third-party capital remuneration 5,983 9,821 7142 Other operating income (expenses), net 1,013 -159 585 Financial expenses 5,760 9,404 6,814 Reversal (complement) of the provision for doubtful accounts -56 -74 -70 Rentals 223 417 328 Total revenues 34,149 36,773 31,671 Own capital remuneration 1,673 382 -1250 Inputs acquired from third parties Dividends 850 159 89 Cost of goods and services sold -17,605 -20,233 -18,915 Non-controlling interest 85 (5) 45 Impairment of assets -621 -658 -2151 Retained earnings (losses) 742 238 -1116 Gross value added 15,923 15,882 10,605 Loss on discontinued operations 17,343 20,831 -268 Depreciation, amortization and depletion -2,302 -2,754 -2,664 Value added distributed 17,343 20,831 13,805 Net value added generated by the Company 13,621 13,128 7,941 Valor econômico retido – Economic value withheld 16,806 15,942 Value added received through transfers 17.3 20.8 13.8 R$ bilhões Equity accounting 258 311 781 4.6 Finance income and foreign exchange gains 3,464 7,392 5,083 4.1 Total value added received through transfers 3,722 7,703 5,864 6.0 4.4 Total value added to distribute 17,343 20,831 13,805 5.6 salaries and social charges 9.8 3.5 Taxes, fees and contributions 6.0 7.1 Remuneration of third-party capital 1.7 Remuneration of equity 0.4 -1.3 2014 2015 2016 Omissions: Indicator not reported by Citrosuco. Reasons for omission: Confidential information. Explanation for omission: Confidential information. 80 Annual Report 2016 Annual Report 2016 81 GRI Index Economic Performance Environmental Performance GRI Index ENVIRONMENTAL Comments: 1. The Votorantim S.A. system did not allow for a breakdown of investments in the community, since they are contained in the operating costs Production primary products PERFORMANCE Company (products) 2014 2015 2016 Unit Votorantim Metais (aluminum, nickel, zinc)* 0.9 1.3 0.52* Million tons ASPECT: ENERGY Votorantim Siderurgia (long steel) 1.8 1.7 1.64 Million tons Votorantim Cimentos (cement, mortar, aggregates) 68.0 65.8 60.1 Million tons EN3 ENERGY CONSUMPTION WITHIN THE ORGANIZATION Fibria (pulp) 5.27 5.2 5.02 Million tons Additional data and/or DMA p. 38, 39, 43, 58, 71 Companhia Brasieleira de Alumínio (bauxite, molten External assurance (p. 77,78) 4 aluminum, nickel carbonate, electrolytic nickel) 1.71 Million tons * Starting in 2016, the production of Votorantim Metais, includes zinc, lead and copper Description 2016 Total fuel consumption from non-renewable sources 134,550,550 Gj Total fuel consumption from renewable sources 119,505,892 Gj Omissions: Indicator not reported by Citrosuco. Total energy consumption within the organization 270,227,060 Gj Reasons for omission: Confidential information. Explanation for omission: Confidential information. Comments: 1. First year reporting this indicator 82 Annual Report 2016 Annual Report 2016 83 GRI Index Environmental Performance Environmental Performance GRI Index ASPECT: WATER EN5 ENERGY INTENSITY Additional data and/or DMA p. 6 External assurance (p. 77,78) 4 EN8 TOTAL WATER WITHDRAWAL BY SOURCE Additional data and/or DMA p. 65, 69, 70, 71 Taxa Taxa External assurance (p. 77,78) 4 Primary Tipos de Company Product Rate 2015 2016 Métrica energia Escopo Fibria Renewable/ Description 2016 Pulp 20.67 21.98 20.76 GJ/t Non-Renewable Within the organization Surface water (rivers, lakes, wet lands, oceans) 64,603,511.9 m3 Votorantim Renewable/ Within/ Ground water 116,992,500.9 m3 Cimentos Cement 2.660 3.41 3.170 GJ/t Non-Renewable Outside the organization Rainwater harvested 11,913,401.9 m3 Renewable/ Within/ Aggregates 0.0301 0.04 0.028 GJ/t Non-Renewable Outside the organization Effluents from other organizations 0.0 m3 Renewable/ Within/ Utility/water supply company 524,132.3 m3 Concrete 0.00003 0.07 0.145 GJ/t Non-Renewable Outside the organization Total 194,033,546.75 m3 Renewable/ Within/ Mortar 0.070 GJ/t Non-Renewable Outside the organization Votorantim Renewable/ Within/ Metais Aluminum 16.63 12.30 * GJ/t Non-Renewable Outside the organization Comments: Renewable/ Within/ 1. First year reporting this indicator Zinc 13.21 12.63 13.61 GJ/t Non-Renewable Outside the organization 2. Indicator not reported by Banco Votorantim Renewable/ Within/ 3. Data reported by Votorantim Cimentos consider only the cement business Nickel 375.50 300.47 * GJ/t Non-Renewable Outside the organization Votorantim Renewable/ Siderurgia Steel (Billet) 2.88 2.87 2.92 GJ/t Non-Renewable Within the organization Renewable/ Steel (Rolled Billet) 1.88 1.81 1.84 GJ/t Non-Renewable Within the organization Companhia Renewable/ Brasieleira de Aluminum 78.62 GJ/t Non-Renewable Within the organization Alumínio Processed bauxite Renewable/ (Mirai) 0.048 GJ/t Non-Renewable Within the organization Renewable/ Nickel Carbonate 26.72 GJ/t Non-Renewable Within the organization Electrolytic Nickel (production up to Renewable/ May/16) 29.27 GJ/t Non-Renewable Within the organization Comments: 1. Citrosuco does not report this indicator, since the intensity of the company’s GHG emissions is significantly influenced by climate issues. Thus, for a constant scenario in consumption of inputs, emissions can vary according to climate impacts upon productivity on farms, fruit size and brix. As such, the intensity of GHG emissions would not reflect management of GHG emissions. 2. Indicator not applicable to Votorantim Energia. 3. In order to calculate energy intensity, we considered sales of primary products in 2016 4. The table considers the corporate restructuring described at the beginning of this content index 84 Annual Report 2016 Annual Report 2016 85 GRI Index Environmental Performance Environmental Performance GRI Index ASPECT: BIODIVERSITY ASPECT: EMISSIONS EN13 HABITATS PROTECTED OR RESTORED EN15 DIRECT GREENHOUSE GAS (GHG) EMISSIONS (SCOPE 1) Additional data and/or DMA p. 6, 38, 39 Additional data and/or DMA p. 69, 73 External assurance (p. 77,78) 4 Total Area by Company 2014 2015 2016 Votorantim Siderurgia 1825 1542.3 1,796.84 Gases Gross direct GHG emissions (Scope 1) in metric tons included in the Fibria 29 184.3 3,102.60 of CO2 equivalent by Company calculation 2016 Citrosuco 92 134.8 175.35 Votorantim Siderurgia CO2 CH4 N2O 1,501,904 Votorantim Metais 419 271.7 14,056.09 Fibria CO2 CH4 N2O 1,036,182 Reservas Votorantim 310 310 299.36 Citrosuco CO2 CH4 N2O 457,053 Companhia Brasieleira de Alumínio 236.49 Votorantim Metais CO2 CH4 N2O 189,143 Votorantim Cimentos 11,722.31 Votorantim Cimentos CO2 CH4 N2O 22,679,560 Votorantim Energia 43.46 Companhia Brasieleira de Alumínio CO2 CH4 N2O PFCs 1,524,979 TOTAL 2,674 2,443.1 31,432.50 TOTAL 27,388,821 Area whose restoration measures have been 2016 approved by external specialists or follow Biome (Total Area) external parameters / protocols Comments: Amazon 2,872.8 2,872.8 1. Indicator not reported by Banco Votorantim Caatinga 336.4 336.4 Cerrado 18,807.2 17,565.8 Atlantic Rainforest 7,704.6 5,701.3 Pantanal 168.5 168.5 Pampa 470.3 422.2 Other 1,072.8 1,072.8 Total Area 31,432.5 28,139.7 Comments: 1. Citrosuco did not report data from abroad. 2. The protected or restored habitats are located in Brazil, in the states of BA, CE, DF, ES, GO, MG, MS, MT, PA, PE, PR, RJ, RO, RS, SC, SE, SP and T, and Colombia, in the province de Boyacá. 3. Indicator not reported by Banco Votorantim 86 Annual Report 2016 Annual Report 2016 87 GRI Index Environmental Performance Environmental Performance GRI Index EN18 INTENSITY OF GREENHOUSE GAS (GHG) EMISSIONS EN21 NOX, SOX AND OTHER SIGNIFICANT AIR EMISSIONS Additional data and/or DMA p. 43 Additional data and/or DMA p. 43 External assurance (p. 77,78) 4 External assurance (p. 77,78) 4 Primary Rate Rate Rate Volume of significant air emissions by category 2016 Company Product 2014 2015 2016 Metric Types of Energy Gases included NOX 64,009 t Fibria Renewable/ Within/ Pulp 0.240 0.34 0.34 tCO2eq/t Non-Renewable Outside the organization SOX 39,573 t Votorantim Renewable/ Within/ Persistent Organic Pollutants (POP) 0 t Cimentos Cement 0.653 0.63 0.6329 tCO2eq/t Non-Renewable Outside the organization Volatile Organic Compounds (VOC) 2,071 t Renewable/ Within/ Hazardous Air Pollutants (HAP) 17 t Aggregates 0.0020 0.0018 0.00142 tCO2eq/t Non-Renewable Outside the organization Particulate Matter (PM) 6,255 t Renewable/ Within/ Concrete 0.0000021 0.0053 0.01030 tCO2eq/t Non-Renewable Outside the organization Other standard categories for air emissions identified in regulations 2,177 t Renewable/ Within/ Mortar 0.00228 tCO2eq/t Non-Renewable Outside the organization Votorantim Renewable/ Within/ Metais Aluminum 1.14 0.90 * tCO2eq/t Non-Renewable Outside the organization Comments: 1. First year reporting this indicator Renewable/ Within/ Zinc 0.83 0.77 0.779 tCO2eq/t Non-Renewable Outside the organization 2. Citrosuco did not report SOX, POP or HAP, since this parameter was not established for heat generation processes fueled by natural gas and sugarcane bagasse Renewable/ Within/ Nickel 30.24 23.27 * tCO2eq/t Non-Renewable Outside the organization 3. Companhia Brasieleira de Alumínio: The Niquelândia and SMP units were not considered in the calculation 4. VS: did not report POP, COV, HAP, since there is no significant database for reporting emissions of these Votorantim Billet Renewable/ Within/ Siderurgia (Palanquilla) 0.970 0.91 1.0936 tCO2eq/t Non-Renewable Outside the organization parameters. 5. Indicator not reported by Banco Votorantim Finished Renewable/ Within/ Products 1.017 0.96 tCO2eq/t Non-Renewable Outside the organization Companhia Processed Renewable/ Within/ Brasieleira de bauxite 0.0027 tCO2eq/t Non-Renewable Outside the organization Alumínio Molten Renewable/ Within/ aluminum 4.9912 tCO2eq/t Non-Renewable Outside the organization Nickel Renewable/ Within/ carbonate 8.4779 tCO2eq/t Non-Renewable Outside the organization Electrolytic Renewable/ Within/ nickel 2.5846 tCO2eq/t Non-Renewable Outside the organization Comments: 1. Citrosuco does not report this indicator, since the intensity of the company’s GHG emissions is significantly influenced by climate issues. Thus, for a constant scenario in consumption of inputs, emissions can vary according to climate impacts upon productivity on farms, fruit size and brix. As such, the intensity of GHG emissions would not reflect management of GHG emissions. 2. Indicator not applicable to Votorantim Energia. 3. VS does not include in its calculation its mining activity in Colombia 4. Indicator not reported by Banco Votorantim 88 Annual Report 2016 Annual Report 2016 89 GRI Index Environmental Performance Environmental Performance GRI Index ASPECT: EFFLUENTS AND WASTE ASPECT: COMPLIANCE EN22 TOTAL WATER DISCHARGE BY QUALITY AND DESTINATION EN29 MONETARY VALUE OF SIGNIFICANT FINES AND TOTAL NUMBER OF NON-MONETARY Additional data and/or DMA p. 67 SANCTIONS FOR NON-COMPLIANCE WITH ENVIRONMENTAL LAWS AND REGULATIONS External assurance (p. 77,78) 4 Additional data and/or DMA 2016 Monetary value of provision (R$ million) 2013 2014 2015 2016 Total water discharge 321,117,049 m3 Environmental 381 484 539 487 Comments: 1. Indicator not reported by Banco Votorantim Comments: 2. First year reporting this indicator 1. The monetary value of reported cases is in line with the consolidated financial statements of December 31st of each year, and corresponds to the value of the legal actions where the probability of a loss was assessed as possible, in which Votorantim and its controlled companies are involved. EN23 TOTAL WEIGHT OF WASTE BY TYPE AND DISPOSAL METHOD Additional data and/or DMA p. 34, 43, 58, 65, 67, 69 External assurance (p. 77,78) 4 Nonhazardous Hazardous waste waste Composting 58,264 0 t Reuse 543,179 2,191 t Recycling 205,652 23,183 t Recovery (including energy recovery) 16,210 416 t Incineration (burning of mass) 30 443 t Sanitary landfill 25,302 10,407 t Underground injection of waste 0 0 t On-site storage 191,464 805 t Other 722,467 23,704 t Total 1,762,569 61,149 t Comments: 1. First year reporting this indicator 2. Indicator not reported by Banco Votorantim 90 Annual Report 2016 Annual Report 2016 91 GRI Index Environmental Performance Environmental Performance GRI Index ASPECT: OVERALL EN31 TOTAL INVESTMENTS AND EXPENDITURES IN ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION, BY TYPE Environmental investments and Additional data and/or DMA p  . 38, 39, 58, 59, 60, 61, 62, 63, 64, 65, 66, 67, 68, 69, 70, 71, expenditures (BRL) 2013 2014 2015 2016 72, 73, Environmental education 2,273,585.36 1,515,954.65 1,162,628.22 834,683.16 External assurance (p. 77,78) 4 Environmental management 58,710,344.81 53,486,756.77 35,071,079.58 60,633,836.81 Conservation, reforestation and biodiversity 37,267,402.87 62,281,522.97 50,868,732.12 59,643,501.54 Environmental investments and expenditures (BRL) 2013 2014 2015 2016 Environmental protection 86,171,186.26 66,752,083.91 15,023,673.83 10,768,138.31 CAPEX (Investments) 296,511,430 217,773,550.29 275,353,309.91 256,861,032.18 Treatment of air emissions 78,667,092.00 130,794,408.86 140,478,909.36 131,244,575.13 Environmental education 454,961.82 0 263,223.59 8,600.00 Waste treatment 221,980,993.32 83,112,655.10 199,761,435.32 132,188,676.28 Environmental management 13,843,246.30 13,435,748.06 8,720,601.77 29,241,751.59 Effluent treatment 82,527,870.49 85,582,249.66 131,202,949.21 126,187,604.96 Conservation, reforestation and biodiversity 6,907,553.30 7,813,079.29 1,676,676.05 18,132,748.64 HOD Environmental Area 13,782,925.19 13,875,686.97 12,720,566.46 11,712,231.04 Environmental protection 52,719,100.39 57,628,408.65 7,573,605.66 7,042,076.10 Decommissioning/remediation of contaminated areas (soil and water) 11,990,289.65 16,526,159.85 14,539,726.71 25,853,956.37 Treatment of air emissions 42,023,177.92 45,916,880.03 68,595,146.46 70,289,701.80 Environmental insurance 173,763.02 61,007.00 119,364.00 2,039,652.35 Waste treatment 107,315,897.27 12,174,795.34 96,880,820.93 43,937,070.48 Other environmental expenses 33,090,634.18 48,995,840.88 27,486,475.53 22,485,479.07 Effluent treatment 47,245,779.62 35,564,307.08 67,998,524.55 68,758,692.33 HOD Environmental Area 880,425.16 447,384.00 95,913.39 138,662.52 Decommissioning/remediation of contaminated areas (soil and water) 4,445,883.12 7,009,872.36 2,069,563.93 4,137,328.07 Environmental insurance 0.00 0 0 464,000.00 Other environmental expenses 20,675,405.39 37,783,075.48 21,479,233.58 14,710,400.65 OPEX (Expenses) 330,124,657 345,210,776.34 353,082,230.44 326,731,302.83 Environmental education 1,818,623.54 1,515,954.65 899,404.63 826,083.16 Environmental management 44,867,098.50 40,051,008.71 26,350,477.82 31,392,085.22 Conservation, reforestation and biodiversity 30,359,849.57 54,468,443.68 49,192,056.07 41,510,752.90 Environmental protection 33,452,085.87 9,123,675.25 7,450,068.17 3,726,062.21 Treatment of air emissions 36,643,914.08 84,877,528.83 71,883,762.90 60,954,873.33 Waste treatment 114,665,096.05 70,937,859.76 102,880,614.39 88,251,605.80 Effluent treatment 35,282,090.88 50,017,942.58 63,204,424.66 57,428,912.63 HOD Environmental Area 12,902,500.02 13,428,302.97 12,624,653.07 11,573,568.52 Decommissioning/remediation of contaminated areas (soil and water) 7,544,406.53 9,516,287.49 12,470,162.78 21,716,628.30 Environmental insurance 173,763.02 61,007.00 119,364.00 1,575,652.35 Other environmental expenses 12,415,228.79 11,212,765.40 6,007,241.95 7,775,078.42 Total 626,636,087 562,984,326.62 628,435,540.35 583,592,335.01 92 Annual Report 2016 Annual Report 2016 93 GRI Index Environmental Performance Labor Practices And Decent Work GRI Index ASPECT: SUPPLIER ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT LABOR PRACTICES AND EN32 PERCENTAGE OF NEW SUPPLIERS THAT WERE SCREENED USING ENVIRONMENTAL CRITERIA Additional data and/or DMA p. 73 DECENT WORK External assurance (p. 77,78) 4 ASPECT: EMPLOYMENT Number of new suppliers that were screened using environmental criteria 2014 2015 2016 Total number of new suppliers 3,222 5,245 4,559 LA1 TOTAL NUMBER AND RATES OF NEW EMPLOYEE HIRES AND EMPLOYEE TURNOVER BY Total Number of new suppliers that were screened using environmental criteria 1,043 790 669 AGE GROUP, GENDER AND REGION Percentage of new suppliers screened 32.37% 15.1% 14.67% Additional data and/or DMA Gender Age Group Comentário: Between 30 and 1. In 2016, Votorantim Cimentos underwent a revision process of its entire supplier data management 2016 Male Female under 30 50 Over 50 system and for this reason the company did not report the indicators related to the supply chain. Employees hired 4,138 1,314 2,737 2,447 256 Employees* 36,662 7,872 10,478 27,395 6,661 Terminations 6,876 1,926 2,526 5,049 1,218 Rate of new hires 11.3% 16.7% 26.1% 8.9% 3.8% EN33 SIGNIFICANT ACTUAL AND POTENTIAL NEGATIVE ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS Turnover 18.8% 24.5% 24.1% 18.4% 18.3% IN THE SUPPLY CHAIN AND ACTIONS TAKEN Additional data and/or DMA p. 47, 48, 49 M 30–50 Description 2014 2015 216 Total number of suppliers 83,184 140,769 78,990 Gender Age Group Number of suppliers subjected to environmental impact assessments 1,164 4,653 4,299 F -30 +50 Percentage of suppliers subjected to assessments 1.4% 3.3% 5.44% Comentário: 1. In 2016, Votorantim Cimentos underwent a revision process of its entire supplier data management Comments: system and for this reason the company did not report the indicators related to the supply chain. 1. Data for employees used for the calculations of the 2016 rates include trainees, interns and apprentices. 94 Annual Report 2016 Annual Report 2016 95 GRI Index Labor Practices And Decent Work Labor Practices And Decent Work GRI Index ASPECT: OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY ASPECT: TRAINING AND EDUCATION LA6 TYPES AND RATES OF INJURIES, OCCUPATIONAL DISEASES, LOST DAYS, ABSENTEEISM LA9 AVERAGE HOURS OF TRAINING PER YEAR, PER EMPLOYEE BROKEN DOWN BY AND NUMBER OF WORK-RELATED FATALITIES, BY REGION AND GENDER GENDER AND EMPLOYEE CATEGORY Additional data and/or DMA p. 61 Additional data and/or DMA p. 45, 46, 47 External assurance (p. 77,78) 4 External assurance (p. 77,78) 4 Occupational health and safety 2014 2015 Period 2014 2015 2016 indicators (Own employees and permanent third-party Average number of workers) Abroad Brazil Abroad Brazil Employee category Gender training hours Fatalities 4 10 0 1 President/Director Female 26.9 27.3 6.24 Man-hours worked (own and third-party) 40,359,327 150,588,175 44,140,004 124,779,042 Male 21.0 31.1 9.00 Total no. of injuries (Level 1) 179 864 289 756 Manager Female 34.5 43.7 5.52 Total no. of injuries (Levels 2 and 3) 352 488 245 312 Male 44.7 37.8 8.46 Total no. of injuries with lost days (Levels 4 to 6) 59 211 60 100 Coordinator/Consultant Female 47.5 31.8 5.11 Male 42.7 28.1 7.42 2016 Technician/Analyst/Supervisor Female 60.0 30.6 0.73 Male 46.0 20.5 2.30 Own employees Outsourced Occupational health and safety Trainee Female 90.5 111.1 indicators Abroad Brazil Abroad Brazil Male 189.0 151.7 Man-hours worked 21,160,298 79,147,034 Operational Female 21.1 19.2 0.06 No. of injuries 283 442 Male 14.7 13.7 0.20 No. of fatalities 0 4 5 3 Intern Female 32.1 13.9 No. of lost days 2,426 11,478 Male 89.5 13.3 Apprentice Female 120.2 71.1 Male 37.2 20.8 Omissions: Breakdown by employee category Reasons for omission: Not Available Comments: Comments: 1. Except for Votorantim Metais, which uses working days in calculation of “lost days,” all other Companies 1. This indicator considers training carried out by the Academy of Excellence use calendar days 2. In 2016, in the “Operational” category, the values are considering all employees of wage groups equal 2. Indicator not reported by Banco Votorantim to or lower than GS-27, that is, this category also includes trainees, apprentices and interns. 3. New reporting model adopted in 2016 For contractors, the report includes only the number of fatalities. 96 Annual Report 2016 Annual Report 2016 97 GRI Index Labor Practices And Decent Work Labor Practices And Decent Work GRI Index ASPECTO DIVERSIDADE E IGUALDADE E OPORTUNIDADES ASPECT: SUPPLIER ASSESSMENT FOR LABOR PRACTICES LA12 BREAKDOWN OF GOVERNANCE BODIES AND BREAKDOWN OF EMPLOYEES LA14 PERCENTAGE OF NEW SUPPLIERS THAT WERE SCREENED USING LABOR BY EMPLOYEE CATEGORY ACCORDING TO GENDER, AGE GROUP, MINORITY GROUP PRACTICES CRITERIA MEMBERSHIP, AND OTHER INDICATORS OF DIVERSITY Additional data and/or DMA Additional data and/or DMA p. 19, 36 External assurance (p. 77,78) 4 Breakdown of minority groups in the organization 2013 2014 2015 2016 Number of new suppliers that were screened using labor practices criteria 2013 2014 2015 2016 Employees over 50 years old 5,141 2,890 6,651 6,660 Total number of new suppliers 3,131 3,222 5,245 4,559 Female 5,914 6,200 6,158 7,872 Total number of new suppliers that were screened using labor practices criteria 1,158 2,233 2,832 1,653 Breakdown of governance body by gender 2013 2014 2015 2016 Percentage of new suppliers screened 36.98% 69.30% 54% 36.26% Male 66 89 92 112 Female 3 5 5 6 Breakdown of governance body by age group 2013 2014 2015 2016 Comentário: Under 30 0 0 0 0 1. In 2016, Votorantim Cimentos underwent a revision process of its entire supplier data management Between 30 and 50 33 73 38 50 system and for this reason the company did not report the indicators related to the supply chain. Over 50 36 21 59 68 Breakdown of employees per employee category according to gender and age group Age group (%) LA15 SIGNIFICANT ACTUAL AND POTENTIAL NEGATIVE IMPACTS FOR LABOR PRACTICES IN THE SUPPLY CHAIN AND ACTIONS TAKEN Under 30 to Over MEN WOMEN Positions 30 50 50 % % Additional data and/or DMA p. Director / President 0.0 42.4 57.6 94.9 5.1 Description 2014 2015 2016 Manager 1.0 77.9 21.1 83.5 16.5 Total number of suppliers 83,184 140,769 78,990 Coordinator / Consultant 12.0 74.2 13.7 74.6 25.4 Technician/Analyst/Supervisor 21.6 66.5 11.9 74.7 25.3 Number of suppliers subjected to impact assessments for labor practices 1,205 11,163 4,065 Trainee 98.2 1.8 0.0 66.1 33.9 Percentage of suppliers subjected to assessments 1.4% 7.9% 5.15% Operational 21.9 61.5 16.7 87.6 12.4 Intern 97.8 2.2 0.0 45.3 54.7 Apprentice 98.7 1.3 0.0 60.0 40.0 Comentário: TOTAL 0.0 42.4 57.6 82.3 17.7 1. In 2016, Votorantim Cimentos underwent a revision process of its entire supplier data management system and for this reason the company did not report the indicators related to the supply chain. Comments: 1. Does not include employees of Citrosuco’s units abroad. 2. Does not include Citrosuco’s temporary workers (seasonal and harvest workers). 98 Annual Report 2016 Annual Report 2016 99 GRI Index Human Rights Human Rights GRI Index HUMAN RIGHTS ASPECT: CHILD LABOR HR5 OPERATIONS AND SUPPLIERS IDENTIFIED AS HAVING SIGNIFICANT RISK FOR INCIDENTS OF CHILD LABOR, AND MEASURES TAKEN TO CONTRIBUTE TO THE EFFECTIVE ABOLITION OF ASPECT: NON-DISCRIMINATION CHILD LABOR Additional data and/or DMA External assurance (p. 77,78) 4 HR3 TOTAL NUMBER OF INCIDENTS OF DISCRIMINATION AND CORRECTIVE ACTIONS TAKEN Additional data and/or DMA p. 25 Number of operations and suppliers with risk of External assurance (p. 77,78) 4 having child labor and/or young workers exposed to hazardous work 2013 2014 2015 2016 Votorantim S.A. (VC, Votorantim Metais, VS, VE, Banco Votorantim, Companhia Discrimination incidents 2014 2015 2016 Brasieleira de Alumínio, Citrosuco e Fibria) 0 0 0 0 Harassment and abuse of power 34 14 15 Other incidents (discrimination) 14 16 12 Other incidents (discrimination and retaliation) 45 43 49 Total number of discrimination incidents 93 73 76 Comments: 1. Citrosuco is part of the Child Friendly Company Program, developed by the non-profit organization Abrinq Foundation. Since its founding 25 years ago, the program has benefited more than eight million boys and girls in Brazil. Total number of discrimination incidents 2014 2015 2016 Complaints received by the Ombudsman's office 93 73 76 Incidents considered valid 59 54 64 ASPECT: FORCED OR COMPULSORY LABOR HR6 OPERATIONS AND SUPPLIERS IDENTIFIED AS HAVING SIGNIFICANT RISK FOR INCIDENTS OF Comments: FORCED OR COMPULSORY LABOR, AND MEASURES TO CONTRIBUTE TO THE ELIMINATION OF ALL 1. In order to resolve cases of discrimination, appropriate measures were taken, including guidance, warFORMS OF FORCED OR COMPULSORY LABOR nings, transfers, relocations and/or terminations. Additional data and/or DMA Number of operations or suppliers at risk of incurring in forced or compulsory labor 2013 2014 2015 2016 Votorantim S.A. (VC, Votorantim Metais, VS, VE, Banco Votorantim, Companhia Brasieleira de Alumínio, Citrosuco e Fibria) 0 0 0 0 Comments: 1. Annual audit plans are prepared, which include suppliers, in order to evaluate the main risks for each business unit. These plans are discussed and approved by the business unit’s senior management to ensure that there is a reasonable level of coverage considering the number of units in each business area and also the rotation of emphasis. Additionally, the existence of an Ombudsman area, supported by a consolidated systemic tool, facilitates access by employees and other stakeholders should they observe violations of the Code. 100 Annual Report 2016 Annual Report 2016 101 GRI Index Human Rights Human Rights GRI Index ASPECT: ASSESSMENT ASPECT: SUPPLIER HUMAN RIGHTS ASSESSMENT HR9 TOTAL NUMBER AND PERCENTAGE OF OPERATIONS THAT WERE SUBJECTED TO HR10 PERCENTAGE OF NEW SUPPLIERS THAT WERE SCREENED USING HUMAN RIGHTS HUMAN RIGHTS REVIEWS CRITERIA Additional data and/or DMA Additional data and/or DMA External assurance (p. 77,78) 4 Country 2013 2014 2015 Brazil 36 19 32 Number of new suppliers that were screened using human rights criteria 2013 2014 2015 2016 Total number of new suppliers 3,120 3,222 5,245 4,559 2016 Total number of new suppliers that were screened using human rights Total number of operations (Brazil and abroad) 565 criteria 411 1,172 2,096 1,490 Total number of operations that were subjected to human rights assessments or impact assessments for Percentage of new suppliers screened 14.00% 36.37% 40% 32.68% human rights 74 Percentage of operations that were subjected to human rights assessments or impact assessments for human rights 13% Comentário: 1. In 2016, Votorantim Cimentos underwent a revision process of its entire supplier data management system and for this reason the company did not report the indicators related to the supply chain. Comments: 1. In addition to audit work, the company has in place a reporting channel and a code of conduct, and any stakeholders can file complaints. The cases are investigated and responded to the complainants. 2. Starting in 2016 this indicator includes operations outside Brazil. HR11 SIGNIFICANT ACTUAL AND POTENTIAL NEGATIVE HUMAN RIGHTS IMPACTS IN THE SUPPLY CHAIN AND CORRESPONDING ACTIONS TAKEN Additional data and/or DMA Number of new suppliers that were screened using human rights criteria 2014 2015 2016 Total number of suppliers 83,184 140,769 78,990 Total number of suppliers that were screened using human rights criteria 1230 11,792 5,582 Percentage of new suppliers screened 0,9% 8.40% 7.07% Comentário: 1. In 2016, Votorantim Cimentos underwent a revision process of its entire supplier data management system and for this reason the company did not report the indicators related to the supply chain. 102 Annual Report 2016 Annual Report 2016 103 GRI Index Society Society GRI Index SOCIETY ASPECT: ANTI-CORRUPTION SO5 CONFIRMED INCIDENTS OF CORRUPTION AND ACTIONS TAKEN ASPECT: LOCAL COMMUNITIES Additional data and/or DMA p. 26 2014 2015 2016 Total number of confirmed cases of corruption 5 0 8 SO1 PERCENTAGE OF OPERATIONS WITH IMPLEMENTED LOCAL COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT, IMPACT ASSESSMENTS, AND DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS Employees who were punished or dismissed 5 0 3 Additional data and/or DMA p. 32, 33, 34, 35, 36, 37, 58, 59, 60, 61, 62, 63, 64, 65, 66, 67, Dismissals or non-renewal of contracts with partners 4 0 4 68, 69, 70, 71, 72, 73 External assurance (p. 77,78) 4 Operations/Units that have implemented Comments: community engagement programs and 1. The data for 2016 have been reported according to the definition of anti-corruption in the Anti-corimpact and development evaluations in the ruption Law No. 12,846/2013, which punishes companies for acts of corruption involving the public whole organization 2013 2014 2015 2016 administration. Total number of operations 512 650 728 565 2. Fibria, however, considers for the indicator, both cases involving public instances, and those occurring Total number of operations with local community engagement 70 72 111 93 in a strictly private environment. Of the eight cases identified in 2016, none involved public instances. Percentage of operations with local community engagement 13.7% 11.1% 15% 16% It is also worth mentioning that among the eight cases, three were regarded as partially valid, but were considered as “valid” in this report. 3. Indicator not reported by Banco Votorantim Comentário: 1. Indicator not reported by Banco Votorantim ASPECT: PUBLIC POLICY SO6 TOTAL VALUE OF POLITICAL CONTRIBUTIONS BY COUNTRY AND RECIPIENT/ BENEFICIARY Additional data and/or DMA p. Year 2013 2014 2015 2016 Total monetary value of direct and indirect political contributions None R$ 20,080,445* None None Comentário: 1. There was no political contribution based on Resolution 23.463 / 2015 which provides for collection and expenditure of resources by political parties and candidates and on accountability in elections 2016. 104 Annual Report 2016 Annual Report 2016 105 GRI Index Society Society GRI Index ASPECT: ANTI-COMPETITIVE BEHAVIOR SUPPLIER ASSESSMENT FOR IMPACTS ON SOCIETY SO7 TOTAL NUMBER OF LEGAL ACTIONS FOR ANTI-COMPETITIVE BEHAVIOR, ANTI-TRUST, SO9 PERCENTAGE OF NEW SUPPLIERS THAT WERE SCREENED USING CRITERIA FOR AND MONOPOLY PRACTICES AND THEIR OUTCOMES IMPACTS ON SOCIETY Additional data and/or DMA Additional data and/or DMA p. 73 External assurance (p. 77,78) 4 Number of new suppliers that were screened Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive using criteria for impacts on society 2013 2014 2015 2016 behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices 2014 2015 2016 Total number of new suppliers 3,131 3,222 5,245 4,559 Citrosuco 0 0 0 Total number of new suppliers that were screened using criteria for Votorantim Energia 0 0 0 impacts on society 1,158 693 795 728 Votorantim Cimentos 0 0 0 Percentage of new suppliers screened 36.98% 21.51% 15% 15.97% Votorantim Metais 0 0 0 Votorantim Siderurgia 0 0 0 Fíbria 0 0 0 Comentário: 1. In 2016, Votorantim Cimentos underwent a revision process of its entire supplier data management system and for this reason the company did not report the indicators related to the supply chain. 2. Comentário: 1. Indicator not reported by Banco Votorantim SO10 SIGNIFICANT ACTUAL AND POTENTIAL NEGATIVE IMPACTS ON SOCIETY IN THE SUPPLY CHAIN AND ACTIONS TAKEN ASPECT: COMPLIANCE Additional data and/or DMA p. 24 Description 2014 2015 2016 SO8 MONETARY VALUE OF SIGNIFICANT FINES AND TOTAL NUMBER OF NON-MONETARY Total number of suppliers 83,184 140,769 78,990 SANCTIONS FOR NON-COMPLIANCE WITH ENVIRONMENTAL LAWS AND REGULATIONS Number of suppliers subjected to impact assessments on society 164 3,296 3,963 Additional data and/or DMA Percentage of suppliers subjected to environmental impact assessments 0.2% 2% 5.02% Monetary value of provision (R$ million) 2013 2014 2015 2016 Tax 3,564 4,230 4,983 7500 Comentário: Labor and social security 278 244 429 355 1. In 2016, Votorantim Cimentos underwent a revision process of its entire supplier data management Civil 4,736 6,067 6,766 7227 system and for this reason the company did not report the indicators related to the supply chain. Comments: 1. The monetary value of reported cases is in line with the consolidated financial statements of December 31st of each year, and corresponds to the value of the legal actions where the probability of a loss was assessed as possible, in which Votorantim and its controlled companies were involved. 106 Annual Report 2016 Annual Report 2016 107 GRI Index Other Commitments Other Commitments GRI Index OTHER COMMITMENTS CORRELATIONS WITH THE OECD GUIDELINES FOR MULTINATIONAL ENTERPRISES In this table, we make a correlation between the OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises, according to the table in the GRI Guidelines, and according to the GRI G4 indicators that were used as support for the preparation of this Report. CORRELATION WITH THE “TEN PRINCIPLES” OF THE UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT The UN Global Compact is the world’s most important business initiative focused on sustainability issues. Since 2005, through the United Nations, the Global Compact has brought together companies in a global OECD Guidelines GRI Guidelines in this Report alliance to observe its 10 universal principles related to human rights, labor relations, the environment and IV. Human Resources HR3, HR5, HR6, HR9, HR10, HR11, SO1, SO9, SO10 the fight against corruption. V. Employment and industrial relations G4-11, EC1, LA1, LA6, LA9, LA12, LA14, LA15, HR3, HR5, The table below demonstrates the correlations between the United Nations Global Compact principles HR6, SO1 and the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) indicators which were used as the parameters for the preparation VI. Environment EN5, EN13, EN18, EN29, EN31, EN32, EN33, LA6, LA9, of this report. In this way, it is possible to locate throughout our report all actions and initiatives that reinSO1, SO9, SO10 force our commitment to the Global Compact. VII. Combating bribery, bribe solicitation and extortion SO5, SO6, SO9, SO10 It is important to point out that our commitment to the Global Compact is in line with our beliefs and X.Competition S07, S08, SO9, SO10 sustainability practices. In this context, the normative guidelines of the Global Compact on human rights, environment, labor relations, anti-corruption and other points are also guiding our business performance. XI.Taxation EC1, SO7, S08 Principles of the United Nations Global Compact GRI Guidelines in this Report Comments: Principle 1. Companies most support and uphold the protection of 1. This table includes only those OECD Guidelines that have GRI indicators in this report internationally accepted human rights HR3, HR5, HR6, HR9, HR10, HR11 SO1 Principle 2. make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses HR3, HR5, HR6, HR9, HR10, HR11 CORRELATIONS WITH THE IIRC METHODOLOGY Principle 3. Businesses should uphold the freedom of association We have followed in our report the IIRC integrated reporting guidelines, presenting a concise document and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining G4-11 LA1, LA6, LA9, LA12, LA14, LA15 on how Votorantim SA’s strategy, governance, performance and prospects, in the context of its external Principle 4. the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor HR6 environment, lead to the generation of value in the short, medium and long term. Principle 5. the effective abolition of child labor HR5 We analyzed capitals (financial, manufactured, intellectual, human, social and relationship, and natural) and their relationship with our management pillars. In this way, the IIRC Capitals can be found in the Principle 6. the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation G4-10 LA1, LA6, LA9, LA12, LA14, LA15 HR3 following Sections: Principle 7. Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges EN5, EN13, EN18, EN29, EN31, EN32, EN33 Principle 8. undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; EN5, EN13, EN18, EN29, EN31, EN32, EN33 IIRC Capitals Section Principle 9. encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies EN5, EN13, EN18, EN29, EN31, EN32, EN33 Financial Portfolio Management, Strength of the Portfolio Manufactured Benchmark operation, Invitation to innovate Principle 10. Businesses should work against all forms of corruption, including extortion and bribery SO5, SO6 Intellectual Focus on development, Young Talent Human The importance of corporate climate, Education as a legacy Social and Relationship Social strategies, Urban planning Natural Biodiversity as a legacy 108 Annual Report 2016 Annual Report 2016 109 GRI Index Other Commitments Independent Audit Votorantim S.A CORRELATION WITH THE SDGS INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S LIMITED ASSURANCE The Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), established by the United Nations, represent a set of internationally agreed upon goals, adopted in 2015. REPORT ON INFORMATION RELATED TO SUSTAINABILITY They are long-term goals (2030) and are intended to promote the well-being of all, protect the environment and INCLUDED IN THE 2016 VOTORANTIM REPORT fight climate change. To the Board of Directors the Technical Communication us to issue a limited assurance Votorantim S.A. CTO 01, “Issuance of an Asconclusion on the information SDG GRI Guidelines in this Report São Paulo SP surance Report related to Sustaken as a whole. A limited Goal 1. End poverty in all its forms, everywhere tainability and Social Responsiassurance engagement also INTRODUCTION bility”, issued by the Brazilian requires the performance of Goal 2. End hunger, achieve food safety and improve nutrition, and promote EC1 sustainable agriculture We were contracted by VotoFederal Accounting Council additional procedures when rantim S.A. (“VSA” or “Com(CFC), based on the Brazilian the independent auditor becoGoal 3. Ensure a healthy life and promote well-being for all, in all ages EN15, EN21, EN22, EN23, LA6 pany”) to present our limited standard NBC TO 3000, “Asmes aware of matters that lead Goal 4. Ensure inclusive and equitable quality education and promote lifelong LA9 assurance report on the compisurance Engagements Other the auditor to believe that the learning opportunities for all lation of the information relatthan Audit and Review”, also information taken as a whoGoal 5. Achieve gender equality and empower all women and girls EC1, HR3, LA9, LA12, LA14, LA15 ed to sustainability included in issued by the CFC, which is le might present significant Goal 6. Ensure the availability and sustainable management of water and EN8, EN13, EN22, EN23 VSA’s 2016 Votorantim Report equivalent to the international misstatements. sanitation for all for the year ended December standard ISAE 3000, “AssurThe procedures selected Goal 7. Ensure reliable, sustainable, modern and affordable access to energy for all EC1, EN3, EN5 31, 2016. ance engagements other than were based on our understanGoal 8. Promote sustained, inclusive and sustainable economic growth, full and HR5, EC1, LA12, HR6, LA9, LA1, EN3, EN5, audits or reviews of historical ding of the aspects related to productive employment and decent work for all G4-11, LA14, LA15 RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE financial information”, issued the compilation and presentaGoal 9. Build resilient infrastructures, promote inclusive and sustainable EC1 COMPANY’S MANAGEMENT by the International Audittion of the information incluindustrialization and foster innovation The management of VSA is ing and Assurance Standards ded in the 2016 Votorantim Goal 10. Reduce inequality within and between countries responsible for the preparation Board (IAASB). Those standards Report, other circumstances and fair presentation of the inrequire that we comply with of the engagement and our Goal 11. Make cities and human settlements inclusive, safe, resilient and sustainable formation included in the 2016 ethical requirements, including analysis of the areas in which Goal 12. Ensure sustainable production and consumption standards EN3, EN15, EN22, EN23 Votorantim Report, in accorindependence requirements, significant misstatements miGoal 13. Take urgent action to fight climate change and its impacts (*) EN3, EN13, EN15, EN18, EN21 dance with the guidelines of and perform our engagement ght exist. The following proceGoal 14. Conservation and sustainable use of oceans, seas and marine resources EN3, EN13, EN15, EN18, EN21 the Global Reporting Initiative to obtain limited assurance that dures were adopted: for sustainable development (GRI-G4), and for such interthe information included in the a. planning the work, taking Goal 15. Protect, restore and promote the sustainable use of terrestrial EN3, EN13, EN15, EN18, EN21 nal control as it determines is 2016 Votorantim Report, taken into consideration the maecosystems, sustainably manage forests, fight desertification, halt and reverse land necessary to enable the prepaas a whole, is free from materiteriality and the volume of degradation and halt biodiversity loss ration of information free from al misstatement. quantitative and qualitative Goal 16. Promoting peaceful and inclusive societies for sustainable development, G4-56, HR3, HR5, EN29, SO7, SO8, LA14, material misstatement, whethA limited assurance engainformation and the opeprovide access to justice for all and build effective, accountable and inclusive LA15 er due to fraud or error. gement conducted in accorrating and internal control institutions at all levels dance with the Brazilian stansystems that were used to Goal 17. Strengthen the means of implementation and revitalize the global INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ dard NBC TO 3000 and ISAE prepare the information inpartnership for sustainable development RESPONSIBILITY 3000 mainly consists of making cluded in the 2016 Votoran* R ecognizing that the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) is the primary international intergovernmental forum for Our responsibility is to express inquiries of management and tim Report of VSA; negotiating the global response to climate change. a conclusion on the informaother professionals of the enb. understanding the calculation tion related to the 2016 Vototity involved in the preparation methodology and the procerantim Report, based on our of the information, as well as dures adopted for the compilimited assurance engagement applying analytical procedures lation of indicators through carried out in accordance with to obtain evidence that allows interviews with the managers 110 Annual Report 2016 Annual Report 2016 111 Votorantim S.A Independent Audit Votorantim S.A responsible for the preparaare substantially less detailed to individual assumptions and tion of the information; than those applied in a reasonjudgments. Furthermore, we c. applying analytical procedures able assurance engagement, did not consider in our engato quantitative information the objective of which is the gement the data reported for and making inquiries regarissuance of an opinion on the prior periods, nor future projecding the qualitative informainformation presented in the tions and goals. tion and its correlation with 2016 Votorantim Report. Conthe indicators disclosed in the sequently, we were not able to CONCLUSION information included in the obtain reasonable assurance Based on the procedures per2016 Votorantim Report; and that we would become aware formed, described herein, no d. comparing the financial indiof all significant matters that matter came to our attention cators with the financial stamight be identified in an assurthat causes us to believe that tements and/or accounting ance engagement, the objecthe information included in records. tive of which is the issue of an the 2016 Votorantim Report of The limited assurance enopinion. Had we performed an Votorantim S.A. has not been gagement also included tests engagement with the objective compiled, in all material reto assess compliance with the of issuing an opinion, we might spects, in accordance with the guidelines of the Global Reporhave identified other matters guidelines of the Global Reportting Initiative (GRI-G4) applied and possible misstatements ing Initiative (GRI-G4). in the compilation of the inforin the information included in mation related to sustainability the 2016 Votorantim Report. São Paulo, March 15, 2017 included in the 2016 VotoranAccordingly, we do not express tim Report. an opinion on this information. We believe that the eviNon-financial data is subject dence we have obtained is to more inherent limitations sufficient and appropriate to than financial data, due to the PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS provide a basis for our limited nature and diversity of the meContadores Públicos Ltda. assurance conclusion. thods used to determine, calCRC 2SP023173/O-4 culate and estimate this data. SCOPE AND LIMITATIONS Qualitative interpretations of Luciano Jorge Moreira Sampaio Jr The procedures applied in a the relevance, materiality, and Contador CRC 1BA018245/O-1 limited assurance engagement accuracy of the data are subject “S” SP 112 Annual Report 2016 Annual Report 2016 113 Votorantim S.A CREDITS GENERAL COORDINATION AND PRODUCTION: MANAGERS RESPONSIBLE: David Canassa and Mariana Mayumi Oyakawa COORDINATION: Renata Vinhas Oliveira REPORT PRODUCTION TEAM: Angelino Maneskul and Debora Vargas Leal Oliveira SUPPORT TEAM: Renato Delmanto Acknowledgments We would like to express our thanks to the management and staff of the corporate areas of Votorantim S.A. and the Votorantim Institute, and the technical and business areas of Votorantim investee companies, for their support and cooperation in the collection and analysis of the information contained in this report. Pictures Votorantim Image Library EXTERNAL SUPPORT TEAM EDITORIAL CONSULTING, REPORT WRITING AND EDITING: Beto Gomes, Gustavo Magaldi and Kátia Shimabukuro (Miolo Editorial) MANAGEMENT, GRI CONSULTING, CONTENT AND DATA: Melissa Rizzo Battistella (Gaido Consultoria e Conhecimento) For more information on the GRI indicators please access the PDF version of the report on Votorantim’s website GRAPHIC DESIGN, LAYOUT AND INFOGRAPHICS: Pierre-Louis A. Ferrandis (Pierre Design Marketing) ICONS: inspired by https://thenounproject.com AUDITORS OF THE GRI INDICATORS AND FINANCIAL INFORMATION: Pricewaterhouse Coopers (PwC) Translation ENGLISH: Gotcha Idiomas SPANISH: Sylvia Gómez y Artigas Belhot PRINTING PRINTING: Stilgraf PRINT RUN: 1,500 copies in Portuguese and 500 in English INK: the ink used to print this report is made from vegetable oil. TYPOGRAPHY Frutiger, Adrian Frutiger, 1975; Avant Garde, Herb Lubalin, 1970; e Didot, Firmin Didot, 1783. PUBLICATION March/2017 www.votorantim.com/relatorio CONTACT: Votorantim S.A. Rua Amauri, 255 Itaim Bibi – São Paulo – SP CEP 01448-000 C/O Investor Relations Email: contato@votorantim.com 114 Annual Report 2016 {G4-31} www.votorantim.com
