JCDecaux’s Communication on Progress To the United Nations Global Compact November 2017 Message from the Co-CEOs expressing support for the Global Compact “In 2016, we continued to deploy our sustainable development strategy in all of our activities and operations. This is in line with the group’s desire to pursue a sustainable business respecting both people and the environment and confirming our on-going commitment towards the 10 principles of the United Nations’ Global Compact on Human Rights, labour rights, the protection of the environment and anti-corruption, as well as our support of the newly introduced sustainable development goals of the United Nations.” Jean-Charles Decaux and Jean-Francois Decaux Extract of JCDecaux’s 2016 Registration Document (PDF page 10) In 1964, Jean-Claude Decaux invented an economic model that is, today, more relevant than ever: providing cities with products and services offering a public service to citizens financed by advertising revenues. Deployed across all of the Company’s activities (cities, airports, transport services, shopping centres, etc.), our economic model offers numerous advantages particularly in its service dimension. This economic model allows cities to provide high-quality services to citizens, to have outdoor communication spaces available to connect with them, and to improve their eco-mobility offer with no impact on local finances and taxpayers, thanks to advertising revenues. We provide urban solutions with a low environmental impact and offer high-quality, aesthetically pleasing and accessible products and services in line with our values to serve cities and the public. With the launch of our Sustainable Development Strategy in 2014, JCDecaux set itself ambitious objectives to minimize its impacts on the environment and create social and stakeholder value: Reduce our energy consumption Reduce our other environmental impacts Deploy a group-wide Health and Safety Policy Implement an ambitious group-wide Social Policy Reinforcing sustainable development in the Purchasing Policy Strengthen employees’ commitment towards sustainable development See the appendix for a summary of priorities, objectives and results to date. In this Communication on Progress, we report on specific Company commitments, practical measures and outcomes which have been achieved to date in each of the four areas addressed by the Global Compact: Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. All the information published in this document was compiled mainly from JCDecaux’s 2016 Registration Document as well as the Group’s International Charter of Fundamental Social Values, Code of Ethics and Code of Conduct of Suppliers. -2JCDecaux’s 2017 Communication on Progress content table UN Global Compact JCDecaux’s Public Public Main implementation actions and outcomes principles commitments references references HUMAN Principle 1: Businesses The Company has issued International  The International Charter of Fundamental Social Values is made available and 2016 RIGHTS should support and respect a formalised commitment Charter of must be signed by all JCDecaux employees. Registration the protection of to respect human rights Fundamental Document  An evaluation is carried out by the Sustainable Development Department every internationally proclaimed standards and prevent Social (pdf pages other year on the compliance of subsidiaries’ local practices with the Charter’s human rights any violations in its 2013 Values (all 60; 68-69) principles. A 100% compliance rate was achieved in 2016*. International Charter of pages) Principle 2: make sure that Fundamental Social  A legal representation letter is signed by each subsidiary’s General Management they are not complicit in Code of Values. every year stating their compliance with the Charter and its principles. human rights abuses Conduct of While the Charter applies Suppliers  A verification of the local deployment of the Charter is carried out systematically to the benefit of all (pdf pages by the Internal Audit Department when auditing subsidiaries. JCDecaux employees 8-11)  The signature of the Code of Conduct of Suppliers has reached 58% of Group around the world, key suppliers in 2016. This measure is currently being expanded. JCDecaux extended its commitment to respecting  A yearly evaluation and an audit every three years of key suppliers including human rights to its human rights criteria are carried out. In 2016, 39% of key suppliers were suppliers through the evaluated and 15% were audited. This measure is also currently being expanded. JCDecaux Code of Conduct of Suppliers. Related Sustainable Development Goals: SDG3, SDG5, SDG8, SDG10 *Scope covered by the International Charter of Fundamental Social Values, i.e. 97% of revenues -3UN Global Compact JCDecaux’s Public Public Main implementation actions and outcomes principles commitments references references LABOUR Principle 3: Businesses The Company has International  At the end of 2016, there were 619 employee representatives at JCDecaux 2016 should uphold the issued a formalised Charter of worldwide, 631 meetings were held with staff representatives, 53 agreements were Registration freedom of association commitment to respect Fundamental signed for a total of 197 agreements in force in 2016 and 49% of Group employees Document and the effective employees’ rights to Social were covered by collective bargaining agreements. (pdf pages recognition of the right to freedom of association Values (all  The International Charter of Fundamental Social Values is made available and 60-63 ; 68collective bargaining and collective pages) must be signed by all JCDecaux employees. A Charter practical guide was 70) bargaining as well as deployed at the end of 2016 in order to provide all JCDecaux subsidiaries with a Principle 4: the Code of prevent forced labour, practical tool to better understand and implement each commitment of the Charter. elimination of all forms of Conduct of child labour and any forced and compulsory Suppliers  An evaluation is carried out by the Sustainable Development Department every forms of discrimination labour (pdf pages other year on the compliance of subsidiaries’ local practices with the Charter’s in its International 8-11) principles. A 100% compliance rate was achieved in 2016*. Principle 5: the effective Charter of Fundamental abolition of child labour  A legal representation letter is signed by each subsidiary’s General Management Social Values issued in every year stating their compliance with the Charter and its principles Principle 6: the 2013.  A verification of the local deployment of the Charter is carried out by the Internal elimination of The same commitments Audit Department when auditing subsidiaries discrimination in respect apply to the Group’s of employment and suppliers as detailed in  The signature of the Code of Conduct of Suppliers has reached 58% of Group key occupation JCDecaux’s Code of suppliers in 2016. This measure is currently being expanded. Conduct of Suppliers  A yearly evaluation and an audit every three years of key suppliers including issued in 2014. human rights criteria are carried out. In 2016, 39% of key suppliers were evaluated Related Sustainable and 15% were audited. This measure is also currently being expanded. Development Goal: SDG3, SDG5, SDG8, SDG10 *Scope covered by the International Charter of Fundamental Social Values, i.e. 97% of revenues -4UN Global Compact JCDecaux’s Public Public Main implementation actions and outcomes principles commitments references references ENVIRONMENT Principle 7: Businesses As part of its 2016  The use of Life Cycle Analyses (LCA) and an eco-design approach by the R&D 2016 should support a Sustainable Registration Department for the design of furniture Registration precautionary approach Development Document  Furniture energy reduction initiatives are undertaken, including the obligation of all Document to environmental Strategy, the (pdf pages subsidiaries to comply with strict rules such as the use of highly efficient lighting (pdf pages challenges Company has issued 53-57) technologies for all new contracts, the introduction of schedule power modulation, 53-57 ; 682 strategic priorities lighting switch-off at night, and lighting retrofits of existing furniture where possible 70) Principle 8: undertake Code of which concern the initiatives to promote Conduct of  Vehicle energy reduction initiatives are undertaken, including eco-driving training, protection of the greater environmental Suppliers optimization of logistics rounds, and the choice of environmentally friendly vehicles. environment: the responsibility (pdf pages These measures led to a 13.5% fuel consumption per km travelled reduction in Reduction of our 12-13) 2016 vs. 2012. Principle 9: encourage Energy Consumption the development and  JCDecaux’s renewable electricity procurement policy enabled the Group to cover and the Reduction of diffusion of 47% of its electricity consumption with renewable electricity in 2016. our Other environmentally friendly Environmental  The use of PEFC or FSC certified paper posters (83% of paper posters ordered technologies Impacts. were hence certified in 2016) and the recycling of paper posters (74% of paper posters posted were recycled in 2016). This commitment is also reflected in the  The reduction of waste volume produced through the refurbishment of furniture at Group’s Code of the end of a contract. Conduct of Suppliers  The implementation of the ISO 14001 certification covered 53% of Group revenues which includes in 2016, with 15 countries certified. principles on the  Local employee-awareness programs on the environment are in place in 38% of preservation of the Group subsidiaries. environment.  An e-learning training programme on Sustainable Development is currently being Related Sustainable deployed in all Group subsidiaries. Development Goal:  The signature of the Code of Conduct of Suppliers has reached 58% in 2016. Also SDG12, SDG13 in 2016, 39% of key suppliers were evaluated and 15% were audited. These measures are currently being expanded. -5UN Global Compact JCDecaux’s Public Public Main implementation actions and outcomes principles commitments references references ANTIPrinciple 10: The Company has Code of  Ethics matters are dealt with at the highest level of the organisation through the 2016 CORRUPTION Businesses should work issued a formalised Ethics (all Ethics Committee, a sub-committee of JCDecaux’s Supervisory Board. Registration against corruption in all commitment to pages)  The Code of Ethics and its Practical Guide are made available and must be signed Document its forms, including prevent corruption in by all JCDecaux employees. (pdf pages Code of extortion and bribery all its forms in its Code 68-70) Conduct of of Ethics.  A legal representation letter is signed by each subsidiary’s General Management Suppliers every year stating their compliance with the Code of Ethics and its principles. The same (pdf pages commitment applies 12-13)  A verification of the local deployment of the Code of Ethics is carried out by the to the Group’s Internal Audit Department when auditing subsidiaries. suppliers as detailed  An e-learning training on the prevention of corruption practices was deployed in in JCDecaux’s Code early 2017. At the end of February 2017, 82.5% of the targeted employees had of Conduct of followed this training, which will continue during the year. Suppliers.  A confidential alert procedure is in place. Related Sustainable Development Goal:  The signature of Code of Conduct of Suppliers has reached 58% of Group key SDG8 suppliers in 2016. This measure is currently being further deployed.  A yearly evaluation and an audit every three years of key suppliers including ethics criteria are carried out. In 2016, 39% of key suppliers were evaluated and 15% were audited. These measures are currently being expanded. -6Appendix Recap table on Sustainable Development strategic priorities, objectives and results -7Our Sustainable Development Strategic Priorities, Objectives and Results -8-
