We’re Sustainability Report for the Financial Year 2016 NORTH AMERICA BRENNTAG WORLDWIDE FACTS EUR 3.8 BN AND EXTERNAL SALES FIGURES > 4,600 MÜLHEIM/RUHR EMPLOYEES GERMANY READING PENNSYLVANIA HOUSTON TEXAS LATIN AMERICA regional headquarters more than 550 locations worldwide EUR 0.8 BN EXTERNAL SALES > 1,400 EMPLOYEES KEY FIGURES IN EUR M 2016 2015 2014 Sales 10,498.4 10,346.1 10,015.6 Gross profit 2,369.3 2,266.0 2,027.5 Operating EBITDA 810.0 807.4 726.7 Profit after tax 361.0 368.1 339.7 Free cash flow 641.4 764.3 521.6 Employees  at Dec. 31 15,072 14,707 13,870 Personnel expenses including social insurance contributions 913.0 853.0 760.1 Accident rate (LTIR) * 1.5 1.6 1.9 Employee fluctuation in % 5.9 5.8 6.5 ISO 9001 certifications % of operating sites 90 89 90 * Number of accidents resulting in at least 1 day’s absence/1 million working hours EMEA FACT S AN D FI GU RE 4.6 EUR EXTERNAL SALES BN ASIA PACIFIC S > 6,800 EMPLOYEES EUR 1.0 EXTERNAL SALES BN > 1,900 EMPLOYEES SINGAPORE REPUBLIC OF SINGAPORE Umsatz nach Regionen SALES BY REGION EMPLOYEES BY REGION gionen AS AT DEC. 31, 2016 (IN %) AS AT DEC. 31, 2016 (IN %) Mitarbeiter nach Regionen 2.8 12.8 0.9 9.6 7.4 9.9 EMEA North America Latin America Asia Pacific All other segments 36.5 43.7 30.7 45.7 WE ARE BRENNTAG ABOUT BRENNTAG Brenntag is the global market leader in chemical distribution. Connecting chemical manufacturers (our suppliers) and chemical users (our customers), we provide both complete distribution solutions as well as individual chemical products. Brenntag distributes industrial and specialty chemicals for thousands of suppliers. We maintain a global network with more than 550 locations in 74 countries in the regions North America, Latin America, EMEA (Europe, Middle East & Africa) and Asia Pacific. We serve around 185,000 customers worldwide in various end-market industries. With its corporate strategy*, Brenntag pursues the goal of being the preferred distributor for both specialty and industrial chemicals for our customers and suppliers and, at the same time, the industry leader in safety, growth and profitability. A positive work environment and responsibility towards our employees are fundamental aspects of our corporate strategy and therefore also of Brenntag’s sustainability strategy. several 1,000 suppliers more than 550 locations in 74 countries around 185,000 customers more than 10,000 different products * For information on Brenntag’s vision, objectives and strategy, please see from page 44 onwards of Brenntag’s 2016 Annual Report. 1 SUSTAINABILITY AT BRENNTAG “ConnectingChemistry” – this is the brand promise of Brenntag and of each of its employees to our business partners. As the global market leader in chemical distribution, Brenntag connects chemical manufacturers and users in a value-creating partnership. Brenntag’s key role in the value chain offers huge potential – but also entails an obligation to contribute towards greater sustainability in the industry. RESPONSIBLE CORPORATE BEHAVIOUR is part of Brenntag’s brand promise and self-image. For us, sustainability entails more than just commercial success. We also aim to achieve sustainable value creation. For this reason, Brenntag also considers the effects of its business activities on the environment and factors in social issues when making strategic decisions. We’re Day in, day out, Brenntag employees worldwide connect customers and suppliers, thus forming a hub for expertise and knowledge. In this report, some of them tell in their personal ­“ConnectingChemistry” stories how they put sustainability into practice in their working environment. AAFKE DIJKSMA Learn more from page 20 CONTENTS ROBINSON MUÑOZ 2 CEO Letter Learn more from page 30 4 Sustainability at Brenntag 12 Safety 23 Environmental Protection 33 Supply Chain Responsibility 36 Employees WEISEONG FONG More ConnectingChemistry stories can be Learn more from page 42 45 Community found online at www.brenntag.com and in 47 Report Profile Brenntag’s 2016 Annual Report 49 GRI Content Index In addition, follow our 53 Imprint ConnectingChemistry campaign at Brenntag’s social media channels. More information More information online 2 DEAR LADIES AND GENTLEMEN, live up to in our daily work. We aim to achieve a continual improvement in our performance around sustainability and Welcome to Brenntag’s fourth sustainto contribute towards greater sustainability in the entire value ability report which closely follows our chain of the chemical industry. theme of “ConnectingChemistry”, a statement that reflects Brenntag’s idenThis sustainability report provides you with information about tity and highlights our brand promise to the progress that we have made in 2016. Our concrete susour business partners. Brenntag is the tainability targets, which we published for the first time in global market leader in chemical distri2016 (see page 7), form an important framework for achievbution. We maintain a central position ing this. They serve to enhance our sustainability strategy in in the chemical industry’s supply chain a targeted manner and to make our progress quantifiable. by connecting manufacturers and users of chemical products in a value-creating We reached an important milestone in the reporting year: partnership. in October 2016, our sustainability management was awarded gold status by the international rating agency We also aim to play a leading role in EcoVadis. We are pleased that Brenntag’s sustainability the area of sustainability and to achieve achievements have been recognized externally and are sustainable value creation. Our business rated as above average within our industry. At the same activities affect the environment and time, this result marked the successful conclusion of the the communities in which we operate. on-boarding process of the chemical industry’s “Together This entails a responsibility that we are for Sustainability” initiative. We are now a full member – acutely aware of and that we intend to and the only chemical distributor at this stage. Membership BRENNTAG AG SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 2016 CEO LETTER 3 “WE ARE PLEASED THAT BRENNTAG’S SUSTAINABILITY ACHIEVEMENTS HAVE BEEN RECOGNIZED EXTERNALLY AND ARE RATED AS ABOVE AVERAGE WITHIN OUR INDUSTRY.” STEVEN HOLLAND, CEO provides us with greater transparency of our supply chain principles in the areas of human rights, and enables us to support the development of sustain­a­bility labour standards, environmental prostandards in the industry. tection and fighting corruption. These prin­ciples complement the standards We have set a target to reduce our company’s CO2 emissions which we apply in evaluating all of our by 2020. To achieve this, we are working hard to develop business activities. transparency about our energy consumption. Our annual figures for 2016 are reported on a Group-wide basis for the Enhancing our global sustainability first time. Global data collection enables us to more effect­ management and embedding susively manage the important issues of energy consumption tainable action within our operational and CO2 emissions as well as to identify cost-saving potential business around the world continuousand implement measures. ly gives rise to new challenges. Thank you for your interest in learning about Our approximately 15,000 employees around the world posour activities. Please feel free to send us sess excellent market and technical expertise and demonstrate any questions or suggestions by email a strong customer focus and unique level of commitment, to sustainability@brenntag.de or online making them a key factor for Brenntag’s success. Ensuring at www.brenntag.com/sustainability. their safety and protecting their health is a top priority for us. We have been making great efforts for many years to Best wishes, continuously improve the safety awareness at our company. The Group’s LTIR1 day (lost time injury rate) of 1.5 is once again a good, low figure for the reporting year. However, we do not want to rest on our laurels, but instead continue to invest in the area of occupational health and safety. We continued to implement our BEST initiative (Brenntag Enhanced Safety Steven Holland Thinking) in the reporting year with global, regional and local Chief Executive Officer Brenntag Group measures. Mülheim an der Ruhr, June 2017 It is our employees who we have placed at the centre of our communications campaign on “ConnectingChemistry” launched in 2017: after all, they bring our ambitions to life every day. Their personal “ConnectingChemistry” stories provide an insight into the world of Brenntag, our achievements and our values. This report includes examples of how Brenntag’s employees put sustainability into practice in their working environment. The sustainability report has been prepared in accordance with the Sustainable Reporting Standards of the Global ­Reporting Initiative. It also serves as a progress report for the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC). As a participant, Brenntag affirms its commitment to the UNGC’s ten BRENNTAG AG SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 2016 4 SUSTAINABILITY AT BRENNTAG OUR PATH TO MORE SUSTAINABILITY The importance of sustainability and responsible business suppliers, customers and society in practices has continuously increased in recent years. Today, general, and have a direct influence it is global issues that are on the agendas of multinationon our commercial success. al organizations such as the United Nations, national governments and also internationally operating companies. At We aim to factor in the effects of our the same time, these issues affect every person individually. business practices on the environment Treating natural resources with care, protecting the climate, and society in our day-to-day activities upholding human rights and fostering social communities when making strategic decisions. To – to name just a few examples of sustainability issues – are this end, we have established corres­ a shared concern, as they safeguard the existence and inponding standards and processes in come of people and companies beyond the present. There our international corporate structures. is a general consensus that all areas of politics, business Brenntag continuously encourages a and society must play an active part in efforts to achieve sense of awareness among its employsustainable, forward-looking development. ees for this issue and provides them with suitable training. Sustainability is We are aware of our responsibilities towards the environment therefore a basic principle which is apand society associated that come with our business activities plied in Brenntag’s day-to-day work. We and market position, and we aim to achieve sustainable v­ alue also support sustainable development creation. Brenntag is the number one in global chemical through our membership of various ordistri­bution and also aims to assume a leading position in ganizations and initiatives, and discuss the area of sustainability. sustainability issues with other players in our industry. Sustainability issues such as health, safety and environmental protection, resource efficiency and full compliance with laws and regulations are deeply embedded within our company. They determine how we interact with our employees, CHEMICAL CREATING VALUE – MANUFACTURERS PURCHASING TRANSPORT STORAGE BRENNTAG’S CENTRAL FUNCTION IN THE Our suppliers SUPPLY CHAIN / Several thousand / Network with more than 550 locations in 74 countries Brenntag’s slogan “ConnectingChemistry” suppliers worldwide stands for our self-image as well as our ob/ Local purchasing teams and global sourcing organization with / Full-line product more than 1,000 experts jective and the promise that we make to portfolio with more all of our partners in the supply chain. As a / Cost of materials in 2016: EUR 8.06 billion than 10,000 industrial provider of a full-line product portfolio and and specialty chemical as a “one-stop-shop”, Brenntag plays a key products role in the chemical industry’s value chain and, as a strategic partner, contributes to greater efficiency. BRENNTAG AG SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 2016 SUSTAINABILITY AT BRENNTAG﻿ 5 SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY AND MANAGEMENT The subsequent stakeholder survey was SUSTAINABILITY ISSUES AND MATERIAL­ITY ASSESSMENT: In conducted online and focused on cusSeptember/October 2015, Brenntag conducted a material­ tomers, suppliers and employees. They ity assessment to identify the sustainability issues which are were invited to assess these issues in of material importance for Brenntag and the relevant staketerms of their relevance for Brenntag’s holder groups. It was based on the principles defined by long-term commercial success. the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI): sustainability context, materiality, completeness and stakeholder inclusiveness. The The stakeholder survey confirmed the For further information­ on BRENNTAG’S material issues identified in this way form the basis for further materiality of almost all of the issues de­STAKEHOLDER GROUPS, developing Brenntag’s sustainability strategy. termined by Brenntag’s experts, which please see page 11. were found to be either “import­ant” To begin with, an internal survey of experts was conducted or “very important”. The results of the to determine the material issues for Brenntag. The group expert and stakeholder surveys are comof experts comprised members of Brenntag’s two sustainpared in the materiality matrix shown ability committees as well as representatives of selected on page 6. The results were presented to On SUSTAINABILITY ­MANAGEMENT at Corporate Departments. In their assessment of the material the Management Board of Brenntag AG ­Brenntag, see page 7. sustainability issues, the experts drew upon their experiand discussed. As a guideline, they help ences resulting from dialogue with the stakeholders as well to further develop the Group’s sustain­ as their own personal insights in relation to the competiability strategy in a targeted fashion, to tive environment and the industry as a whole. An issue is initiate suitable projects to improve our material if it can directly affect our business development sustainability performance, to prioritize or performance, relationships with our business partners measures and to provide greater focus or our reputation. for our reporting. The contents of this sustainability report are directly based The results show that the perception of sustainability at upon the matrix. It comprises chapters Brenntag is closely linked with the company’s own value chain on safety, environmental protection, and that the material sustainability issues are derived from supply chain responsibility, employees our business activities and our service portfolio. and community. CHEMICAL USERS FILLING MIXING AND EXTENSIVE WAREHOUSE PACKAGING PACKAGING BLENDING TECHNICAL MANAGEMENT TRANSPORT LABELLING SUPPORT Our customers Around 185,000 customers worldwide in various / Repackaging / Just-in-time delivery and inventory manageend-market industries, e. g.: ment / Filling, labelling, barcoding and palletizing / Adhesives / Return of packaging drums / Local distribution and marketing teams comprising more than / Paints 5,000 experts / Efficient logistics and transport management / Oil & gas / Product mixing in line with specific customer requirements / Food / Blending and technical service in our own application laboratories / Water treatment / Personal care / Pharmaceuticals BRENNTAG AG SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 2016 6 BRENNTAG MATERIALITY MATRIX Very important 12 8 13 10 9 11 2 14 3 36 31 28 6 15 30 32 5 29 1 27 19 4 7 17 24 22 33 16 21 18 23 Stakeholder surveys 20 37 35 25 34 26 40 38 39 Important Important Very important Brenntag expert surveys Corporate Governance Environment Employees 1 Compliance 14 Protection of soil, air, water 28 Personnel development 2  Ethical/moral principles 15 Water management 29 Training 3  Anti-corruption 16 Emissions reduction/climate 30 Compensation and benefits 4 Code of conduct protection 31 Working conditions 5 Risk management 17 Resource efficiency 32 Work-life balance 6 Human rights 18 Energy efficiency 33 Talent management 7  Anti-trust & competition laws 19 Environmental management 34 Diversity 20 Recycling 35 Labour and social policy rights Safety 21 Waste management 36 Employee satisfaction and 8 Occupational safety and 22 Transport engagement health protection 37 Recruiting 9 Product safety Supply chain 10 Product quality 23 Sustainable procurement Social Responsibility 11 Process safety 24 Supplier management 38 Social/charitable commitments 12 Safe handling of chemicals 25 Supplier qualification/training 39 Local community engagement 13 Risk prevention 26 Sub-contractor management 40 Participation in industry 27 Sustainable customer solutions associations (products/services) BRENNTAG AG SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 2016 SUSTAINABILITY AT BRENNTAG﻿ 7 With regard to the further development of its sustainability who is based in Brenntag AG’s Corpor­ strategy, Brenntag also takes into consideration the effects of ate Development department, initiates its business activities on its natural and social environment. and coordinates global projects and ini­ This is also included here in our sustainability report. tiatives in cooperation with these two committees, promotes the ongoing deSUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT: At Group level, there are velopment of the company’s global susnumerous strategic guidelines, policies and projects in the tainability strategy, and maintains a diaarea of sustainability that have a global focus. Standards logue with those colleagues responsible and processes are implemented, established and optimized. for sustainability at Group level and in Moreover, in accordance with the Group’s guidelines and obBrenntag’s regions. This coordinator rejectives, Brenntag’s individual companies and sites pursue ports to the Management Board, which a large number of activities of their own accord and in line supports the work of the committees. with local and regional requirements and commitments. We raise our employees’ awareness accordingly and provide them In 2016, the sustainability committees with further training. In this way, we intend to shape our susmainly focused on the following issues tainability strategy at a global level and to develop it further. and projects: Brenntag has two committees working in the area of sus// “Sustainable procurement”: tainability: an international project team, which consists of Performance of sustainability representatives of the areas HSE (health, safety and environassessments for suppliers mental protection), Compliance, Human Resources, Oper­ // Measures to improve Brenntag’s ations, Purchasing and Communications, is responsible for EcoVadis score the systematic development of sustainability at Group level. // Implementation of global energy There is also a steering committee comprising representatives reporting of the top management from Brenntag’s various regions. This // Ongoing development of primarily serves as a interface to the operating units and is Brenntag’s sustainability strategy: intended to reinforce integration relating to the issue of sustracking Brenntag’s sustainability tainability at an operational level. A sustainability coordinator, targets for 2020 SUSTAINABILITY AT BRENNTAG: OUR TARGETS TARGETS BY STATUS SAFETY LTIR1 day/1 million < 1.0 for Brenntag Group 2020 LTIR1 day/1 million 2016: 1.5 (page 16) SUSTAINABLE Analyze 50% of total chemical spend (in EUR) with 2020 The supplier assessments achieved by the end PROCUREMENT sustainability assessments as part of the “Together of 2016 represent around 16% of the total for Sustainability” membership chemical spend (in EUR) (page 33). ENVIRONMENTAL To reduce Scope 1 and 2 CO2 emissions 2020 For 2016, we are reporting consolidated data PROTECTION (per warehouse tonne of goods sold) by 6% for the Brenntag Group for the first time. (compared to 2016) (page 23). COMPLIANCE Achieve and maintain a coverage of 100% 2017 Coverage for global e-learning training on in compliance training for relevant employees Brenntag’s Code of Business Conduct and Ethics by end of 2016: 94% (page 10). EMPLOYEES Provide a working environment where Ongoing The HR projects developed in 2015 have been the best people want to work implemented; in 2016, additional HR initiatives were launched (page 36 ff.). SUSTAINABLE Become preferred distributor for sustainable 2020 Based on BASF’s portfolio management approach SOLUTIONS solutions by setting up pilot projects with “Sustainable Solution Steering”, we are jointly working 10 selected key suppliers with BASF on marketing potentials for products with regard to assessable sustainability advantages. Concrete results are expected by the end of 2017. RATING Achieve and maintain EcoVadis score of Ongoing Score in October 2016: 66 points, gold recognition at least 62 points and gold recognition status status (page 34). BRENNTAG AG SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 2016 8 QUALITY MANAGEMENT COMPLIANCE MANAGEMENT AND ORGANIZATION: At Brenntag is a chemical distributor which the head of Brenntag’s compliance organization is the differentiates itself from its competiBoard of Management and, within this body, its chairman. tors through the high level of quality Brenntag AG’s Governance, Risk & Compliance (GRC) m ­ anager of its products and services as well as in the Corporate Internal Audit department regularly reports its strong customer focus and the exto the Board of Management on compliance issues and in cellent level of service provided by its ­urgent cases will do so immediately. The regular meetings employees. Our Group’s sustainability of the Supervisory Board’s Audit Committee also include performance has now also become a ­reporting on compliance and whistle-blowing as well as on competitive advantage. the ongoing development of the Group-wide com­pliance management system. The GRC manager is supported by For further MANAGEUsing management systems, certifithe Compliance Committee as an internal advisory body. MENT SYSTEMS AND CERTIFICATIONS, please cates and audits, we constantly verify This includes representatives from the areas of Legal, Audit, see the Safety chapter and ensure compliance with the qual­Accounting, Information Security, HSE and Human Resources. starting on page 12. ity standards required of us and which we ourselves define. Procedures are At a regional level, the Regional Executive Management is in place at our company which ensure responsible for the issue of compliance. Regional compliance that products are procured from reli­able managers have been appointed in Brenntag’s regions. They sources and meet quality standards. receive, assess and report any compliance issues and/or quesThrough various mechanisms, we obtions referred to them, coordinate the compliance managetain customer feedback for the continu­ ment system at a regional level and regularly pass on inforous monitoring and improvement of mation and experience through dialogue with Brenntag AG’s our service quality. The basis for qualGRC manager. This allows us to ensure close integration of ity management within the Brenntag compliance management with our business activities at a Group is the internationally applicable ­regional level. ISO 9001 standard. The Brenntag CODE OF CODE OF CONDUCT: As a global company, Brenntag is subBUSINESS CONDUCT AND ETHICS is freely ject to a large number of laws, directives, regulations and Year Locations with ISO 9001 certification available in German ordinances. In addition to compliance, honesty and integrity and English on the company’s website at ­ abs. in % are our highest priorities. All of our fundamental company ­www.brenntag.com­/ 2012 318 86 values, ethical principles, compliance with laws, rules and compliance. 2013 342 88 regulations as well as the relevant guidelines and procedures 2014 352 90 which are of key significance for Brenntag and its reputation are summarized in a comprehensive Code of Business Con2015 356 89 duct and Ethics. 2016 354 90 As a central part of our compliance system, the Code of BusiCORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND ness Conduct and Ethics encompasses the fundamental reCOMPLIANCE quirements for Brenntag’s overall business activities in fields Brenntag has always attached great imsuch as: portance to responsible, prudent and sustainable corporate governance. Our // Health, safety and the environment top priority is adherence to statutory re// Human rights and working conditions quirements as well as voluntary internal // Relationships with business partners and public conduct policies (compliance). To enable institutions this, management uses various internal // Bribery and corruption Brenntag’s CONTROL control and risk management systems // Competition and antitrust law AND RISK MANAGEMENT SYSTEM is presented in and has established a compliance or// Avoidance of conflicts of interest detail on pages 94 ff. of ganization within the company. Every // Data privacy and information security Brenntag’s 2016 Annual Report. Brenntag employee is personally responsible for complying with all applicable laws, directives, policies and regulations. BRENNTAG AG SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 2016 9 The Code applies to all employees at all levels of the company and is intended to give them guidance in the legal and ethUN GLOBAL COMPACT: ical challenges of their daily work and to encourage proper THE TEN PRINCIPLES conduct. It has been translated into various languages and has been distributed throughout the entire Brenntag Group 1 and made available to all of our employees. Its observance is monitored by the management teams of Brenntag’s various companies. Every infringement of this Code of Conduct may lead to disciplinary action and is punished in line with the HUMAN RIGHTS Businesses should support common company policies. and respect the protection of internationally 2 proclaimed human rights. As well as the Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, there are further Group guidelines which stipulate compliance requirements. HUMAN RIGHTS Businesses should ensure 3 that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. UN GLOBAL COMPACT: In October 2014, Brenntag was the first-ever chemical distributor to sign up to the United ­Nations Global Compact (UNGC). This prestigious, international, LABOUR STANDARDS Businesses should ­voluntary initiative aims to encourage sustainable developuphold the freedom of association and the 4 ment and social commitment. To this end, ten principles in effective recognition of the right to collective the fields of human rights, labour standards, environmental bargaining. protection and fighting corruption have been endorsed. As a participant, Brenntag has undertaken to enshrine these 5 principles as an integral part of its corporate strategy. They LABOUR STANDARDS Businesses should ­supplement the corporate values and principles which guide commit themselves to eliminating all forms of forced labour. our activities. This Sustainability Report is also a progress ­report which must be published annually within the scope of our UNGC membership (“Communication on Progress”). LABOUR STANDARDS Businesses should ­commit themselves to abolishing child labour. 6 PREVENTING CORRUPTION: Our Code of Conduct stipulates that Brenntag must in no way be involved, directly or indir­ ectly, in bribery or corruption in order to obtain commercial LABOUR STANDARDS Businesses should advantages and that our employees should refrain from such commit themselves to eliminating 7 ­discrimination in respect of employment conduct that could potentially be construed as inappropriate and occupation. or unlawful. Any misconduct by its employees will not be tolerated by Brenntag (zero tolerance policy) and may lead to corresponding disciplinary consequences and sanctions ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION Businesses should take a precautionary approach to under employment law. 8 dealing with environmental challenges. An anti-corruption guideline was also implemented in the reporting year. As a minimum standard for the Brenntag ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION Businesses Group, it specifies the conduct expected of all employees should undertake initiatives to promote 9 with regard to anti-corruption and anti-bribery and is ingreater environmental awareness. tended to help them ensure that their conduct is compliant in critical situations and that they avoid risks. ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION Businesses Within the scope of internal audits, the Brenntag com­panies should encourage the development and 10 are regularly reviewed in relation to corruption risks, etc. distribution of environmentally friendly There were no corruption incidents at Brenntag in the ­technologies. ­reporting period. FIGHTING CORRUPTION Businesses should work against all forms of corruption, including extortion and bribery. BRENNTAG AG SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 2016 10 TRANSPARENCY: The Board of Management and the Supervisory Board present business developments and answer shareholders’ questions at Brenntag’s annual General Shareholders’ Meeting. HUMAN RIGHTS: Brenntag respects and supports the protecTRAINING: Our compliance programme tion of internationally recognized human rights and attaches focuses particularly on observing antigreat importance to observing these within its sphere of trust law requirements and our Code influence. Brenntag aims to safeguard these rights through of Conduct as well as on environmental its commitment to uphold the principles of the UNGC. The and health protection, since it is here Brenntag Code of Business Conduct and Ethics stipulates that Brenntag sees ­the greatest risks. that our company and all of our employees must not be We hold regular em­plo­yee training involved in any violation of human rights. We reject any ­sessions covering these issues – through form of forced or child labour, advocate equal opportunities regional or global events which emand fair working conditions and are against discrimination ployees attend either in person or via of any kind. e-learning systems. The aim is to keep all of Brenntag’s employees’ knowledge We are unaware of any business units at Brenntag where up to date, to avoid any illegal actions, human rights are systematically jeopardized. In the reporting and to protect the environment and period, Brenntag did not learn of any violation of human ­employees from damage and injury. rights within the Group. A global training module on the For the SUSTAINABILITY Brenntag has undergone the sustainability assessments of Brenntag Code of Business Conduct and ASSESSMENT and the SUPPLIER CODE OF the EcoVadis rating agency for several years. In October Ethics was launched in the r­ e­­por­ting CONDUCT, please see 2016, the Brenntag Group achieved a score of 66 points, year. Employees can complete the onethe Supply Chain chapter starting on page 33. thereby attaining gold recognition level. EcoVadis assesses hour training module online via the the sustainability performance of companies in the cat­ global e-learning platform anywhere, egories of environmental protection, labour practices, fair at any time. Twelve topic a ­ reas in total business practices and sustainable procurement. The review – including anti-corruption and human of aspects of human rights is a key element of this external rights – are explained ­using examples assessment of Brenntag. and exercises. The employees then take a test to ensure that the knowledge has As part of its membership of the “Together for Sustain­ability” been absorbed. By the end of 2016, 94% initiative, Brenntag has required its suppliers to also underof Brenntag employees worldwide had go EcoVadis sustainability assessments as at 2015, ­including completed this training. a r­ eview that they observe human rights. In our Supplier Code of Conduct, which we created in 2015, we also explicIn addition, there is more in-depth itly ­require our suppliers to support the protection of inter­ compliance training at a global and national human rights and to refrain from any involvement regional level on the topics of bribery, in violations of human rights. corruption and antitrust law. This training is provided at events which employees attend in person and/or through e-learning platforms. BRENNTAG AG SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 2016 SUSTAINABILITY AT BRENNTAG﻿ 11 WHISTLE-BLOWER SYSTEM: Tried-andSTAKEHOLDERS tested processes are in place at Brenntag Brenntag engages in regular, transparent and target-­groupfor the orderly acceptance and processspecific dialogue with its stakeholders. Brenntag aims to ing of Group-wide internal and external notify its various target groups promptly and appropriatecomplaints and compliance reports. Our ly regarding developments at Brenntag and its objectives, employees can report relevant informathus enabling its stakeholders to obtain a comprehensive tion either to their direct line manager, picture of our company and its business activities. In return, to the regional compliance manager or this dialogue enables Brenntag to identify the needs and alternatively via a central email address. expectations of our stakeholders, to evaluate them and to Third parties can submit complaints and appropriately reflect them in our business decisions. As well report violations by getting in touch as specific business-related issues, there are also sustainability with the compliance contact indicated issues such as safety, the environment, the supply chain and on Brenntag AG’s global website. The incompliance that also regularly feature in these discussions. formation received will always be dealt with on a strictly confidential basis. The Our stakeholders include the interest groups that are signifi­ reports received are examined and apcantly affected by the economic, ecological or social impact propriate action is taken if a compliance of our business or who may be so in future. They also include infringement has taken place. These progroups that may influence the economic, ecological or social cesses are managed by Brenntag AG’s impact of Brenntag now and in the future. GRC manager. Email addresses have also been set up at a regional level. The The following persons and entities are regional compliance managers receive Brenntag’s key stakeholders: and assess any incoming reports and initiate appropriate measures, where // Suppliers necessary. // Customers // Employees Regarding commu­ nication with our Incoming reports mainly concern cases // Investors and analysts EMPLOYEES, please of suspected fraud and theft. Violations // Journalists see page 36. of the Code of Conduct (e. g. conflicts of // Governments and authorities interest and discrimination in the work// Associations and organizations place) and reports concerning other // Neighbours and local residents, local communities compliance issues (e. g. violations of regulations) are also reported. CompliThe Brenntag Group pursues dialogue with its stakeholders ance managers also receive general enin various ways. Due to the nature of the business model, quiries, for instance concerning possible our employees maintain close contact with suppliers and conflicts of interest as well as enquiries customers on a day-to-day basis. Systematic customer and regarding the acceptance of gifts or invisupplier surveys are also regularly carried out. We pursue tations. If a suspected case is confirmed, dialogue with business partners worldwide at the many trade this will incur the sanctions permitted fairs where Brenntag presents itself and its portfolio. As a under employment law. member of relevant technical and industry associations at a You will find a list of BRENNTAG’S KEY local, regional and international level, Brenntag maintains an MEMBERSHIP in active dialogue concerning industry-specific issues. Brenntag’s the ­Sustainability Year Number of confirmed ­Management section Corporate Investor Relations and Corporate Communications of our website at compliance incidents* departments regularly and promptly notify investors, analysts, www.brenntag.com/ 2014 12 sustainability. journalists, etc. of developments within the company, e. g. 2015 12 by presenting the company at road shows, in analyst con2016 11 ference calls, press conferences and events as well as via the company’s website and social media channels. At its various * These are cases notified to the GRC manager and for which sufficient evidence has been established. Comlocations, Brenntag actively engages with local residents and pliance incidents may also occur which are notified, local authorities. Open days or events, for example, provide assessed and processed at a local or regional level but which are not reported centrally on grounds of insufthe opportunity to inform the general public about Brenntag ficient relevance. and to get to know one another. BRENNTAG AG SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 2016 12 SAFETY OUR HIGHEST PRIORITY Safety is of paramount importance at Brenntag and is part of our corporate strategy. “We are the safest chemical disFor information tributor” – this is the primary objective of our “2020 Vision”. on “2020 VISION”, please see page 44 Worldwide, we operate in accordance with “Safety First” as of Brenntag’s 2016 our first core value. This applies both to the safety and health Annual Report. of our employees, as well as to product safety and environmental protection. We are bound by the highest standards in the industry and adopt policies which often exceed statutory requirements. We are working continuously to further improve safety within our company. We invest in our infrastructure and train our employees. Our goal is to achieve a Group accident rate LTIR1 day of below 1.0 by 2020. HSE STRATEGY AND MANAGEMENT Brenntag has implemented a global health, safety and envir­ onment (HSE) strategy. This encapsulates our principles in the areas of safety, product stewardship, the environment, adherence to laws (compliance) and quality. The global strategy is implemented in the regions as part of their own HSE programmes. Our HSE manuals define processes, procedures and measures that are implemented at our regional sites. Regional HSE site teams and officers are responsible for coord­ inating the programmes and measures. Together with the central Corporate Health, Safety & Environment department, they form Brenntag’s global HSE network. The experts regu­ larly share their experiences, develop measures to remedy identified deficits and work together on further improving the company’s safety culture. Compliance with the HSE programme is reviewed through regular internal and external audits. Brenntag manages HSE data in various databases at regional level and also forwards them to the company’s central HSE department. Working together with external experts, the environmental risks including historical data are continuously examined and evaluated at each site. This allows conclusions to be drawn about potential contamination, among other SAFETY 13 HSE AT BRENNTAG: OUR APPROACH  COMMITMENT TO THE PRINCIPLES OF OUR RESPONSIBLE CARE/RESPONSIBLE DISTRIBUTION PROGRAMME Product stewardship Occupational health Comprehensive protection of and product safety and safety, including the environment (air, water, transportation soil, raw materials and waste) THE BRENNTAG APPROACH SAFETY AND A SAFETY HSE PROGRAMMES CLEAR GUIDELINES APPROPRIATE REGULAR INTERNAL CULTURE AROUND AND REGULAR AND PROCEDURES TECHNOLOGY AND EXTERNAL THE WORLD TRAINING REPORTING BRENNTAG AG SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 2016 14 things. This information is collated in an environmental data// S uitable technical and organizational For details on base which also serves as a basis for determining environmensafety measures that help to control ENVIRONMENTAL PROVISIONS in the tal provisions and is an instrument for organizing necessary process risks and prevent errors reporting period, environmental remediation work. // Regular reviews (inspections, see page 163 of Brenntag’s 2016 audits) of process equipment, Annual Report. Brenntag has implemented various management systems execution of processes and safety in the field of HSE in order to ensure its compliance with measures applic­able standards. Our performance is also regularly // Regular checks of whether the ­documented by independent third parties on the basis of specified inspections, audits and assessments and certifications. reviews have been conducted as scheduled and corrective measures have been implemented Certified and assessed ISO 14001 OHSAS 18001 SQAS-ESAD** operating locations* (Europe) PRODUCT STEWARDSHIP AND SAFETY abs. in %* abs. in %* abs. in % Brenntag takes appropriate measures to 2012 96 26 60 18 73 68 ensure the proper handling of our prod2013 108 28 59 17 74 69 ucts while they are under the Group’s 2014 102 26 61 17 73 69 stewardship. These measures include 2015 105 26 59 17 78 73 procurement, packaging, classification 2016 108 27 67 19 80 77 and labelling, handling, storage and transportation. We produce product dos* The percentage figures for ISO 14001 include purely sales-based locations as well as warehouse locations. The OHSAS 18001 figures exclusively refer to warehouse siers and safety instructions and see to locations. disposal. We act in accordance with the ** SQAS-ESAD (Safety and Quality Assessment System, European Single Assessment Docapplicable standards and regulations and ument) is a catalogue featuring more than 500 detailed questions on the handling also cooperate closely with the industry’s of chemicals. It is intended to provide a uniform assessment of the HSE and quality national and regional umbrella associ­ management system of chemical distributors and is associated with the Responsible Care/Responsible Distribution industry initiative. ations which our national ­organizations belong to. To ensure effective and systematic chemicals management, data that are necessary for the safe handling of our prodRESPONSIBLE CARE/RESPONSIBLE DISTRIucts during storage, transport and within the supply chain BUTION: For many years now, Brenntag are stored in central databases at Brenntag. These data are has taken part in the Responsible Care/ therefore available to most of the Group and in this way it is Responsible Distribution (RC/RD) propossible, for example, to implement all amendments to Eugramme of the International Chemical ropean laws simultaneously in all countries and make them Trade Association (ICTA). As such, we imaccessible to the staff. Further Brenntag organizations are plement the eight guidelines laid down continuously signing up to these databases. in this global programme covering the following areas: PROCESS SAFETY The process safety measures depend on the particular type // Legal requirements of process and the risks associated with it. Much is regulated // Management of risk by local legislation and industry directives, although regula// Policies and documentation tions often vary widely from country to country. If Brenntag // Provision of information considers these regulations to be insufficient, we establish our // Training own more stringent measures. These measures are defined // Emergency response Since 2002 Brenntag has in our HSE manuals. // Ongoing improvements been participating in the chemical industry’s // Community interaction “Responsible Care” The following aspects and levels of process safety are covered: programme. // U  se of suitable equipment for the process ­ being performed // Work instructions on how to use the equipment ­correctly/safely and how to perform the process BRENNTAG AG SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 2016 SAFETY﻿ 15 OUTSTANDING ACHIEVEMENT: Brenntag Mexico was awarded the “National Excellence Award” for its performance in the 2016 Responsible Care audit by the national chemical association ANIQ. Brenntag’s implementation of the contents of the RC/RD REACH: Since June 1, 2007, regulation ­programme is reviewed by external experts. Brenntag’s envir­ (EU) No. 1907/2006 concerning the onmental performance and safe handling of chemicals are Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation thus documented by independent third parties. Our ­national and Restriction of Chemicals (REACH) organizations are regularly recognized for their achievements has formed the European legal framefollowing such audits: Brenntag Mexico received the National work for the safe handling of chemicals Award for Excellence in Responsible Care. With this award, in order to protect the environment the national chemical association ANIQ recognized the exand human health. The regulation precellent performance of Brenntag Mexico in the RC audit for scribes mandatory provisions for the distributors in the year under review. For its outstanding production, import, handling and use safety culture and exemplary implementation of the RC prinof chemical substances as they are and ciples throughout 2016, Brenntag UK & Ireland received the when mixed. One of the cornerstones of renowned Responsible Care Award for chemical distributors REACH is the mandatory registration on from the national Chemical Business Association (CBA). the part of manufacturers and importers. The deadline for registration is the end of May 2018. Year Proportion of Brenntag legal entities participating in the RC/RD programme Our REACH-trained product and sales abs. in % managers are able to proficiently ad2012 99 67 dress the wishes of our suppliers and 2013 94 70 customers: 2014 92 76 2015 108 76 // E nsuring a REACH-compliant 2016 113 76 ­supply and usage system // Safeguarding optimal communi­ Due to the fact that an RC/RD programme is not offered by cation within the supply chain national organizations in every country in which Brenntag oper// Support in relation to many ates, programmes have been developed and existing processes REACH-related issues optimized in the individual regions to verify internally that there // Assistance with imported is compliance with the guidelines in the relevant countries. substances // Identifying alternative substances BRENNTAG AG SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 2016 16 OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY incorporated into the global HSE guidelines, regional HSE Our top priority is to ensure the safety manuals, and prevention and training measures. For ex­ of our employees and to protect their ample, a new guideline for selecting and training temporary health. Brenntag continually works toemployees was drawn up for Brenntag EMEA as a result of wards improving the company’s safety ­experiences in recent years (in particular in 2016). culture and takes necessary and appropriate measures to prevent accidents GROUP ACCIDENT RATE and incidents. Konzernunfallquote LTIR 1 Tag* LTIR1 DAY* TRAINING AND EQUIPMENT: An im2.5 portant element is regular training for our employees, in order to raise their 2.0 awareness of potential hazards and to 1.9 enable them to work safely. This training 1.6 goes above and beyond the ­statutory 1.5 requirements and ranges from safety instruction for new employees to comprehensive training measures that are specially tailored for the work situation and the risk potential of specific occupational groups or individual employees. Training is given by internal HSE man­­ agers and also by external experts, both in the form of face-to-face events as well as digitally. Brenntag is also continuous2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 ly investing in its equipment and infrastructure so as to optimize plant safety * LTIR 1 Day (Lost Time Injury Rate): number of industrial accidents resulting in at least and work processes at its locations and one day’s absence from work per one million working hours thus further minimize safety risks and sources of accidents. At the Brenntag site in Guarulhos, Brazil, for example, the entire area where flammable substances are filled was restructured in the year under review in order to prevent accidents between the forklift trucks and pedestrians and to increase traffic safety. ACCIDENT REPORTING: Accidents at work, near misses and similar occurrences are recorded and evaluated centrally according to a standardized system. Any important conclusions are communicated throughout our organ­ ization. The assessment findings and the measures derived from these are SAFETY﻿ 17 This ongoing process of improvement and 2016. Accidents involving equipment and tools have has enabled us to steadily reduce the decreased by two-thirds since 2010. Although the number number of reportable industrial acciof injuries resulting from slips/trips/falls has been almost dents within the Group, resulting in a halved since 2010 – through various training programmes, for reduction of 66% in the Group accident ­example – they are still the most frequent cause of accidents. rate compared to 2010. As a result, they are a focal point of the measures which are aimed at employee behaviour. Accidents involving vehicles See also the BEST PROGRAMME Unfortunately, despite our extensive (forklifts, trucks, cars, motorbikes) have also come under the on page 18. preventative and safety measures, we spotlight. Although the number of incidents has remained suffered one fatal accident in the year relatively constant over the years, they are now also proporunder review: In Indonesia, an employtionally among the most frequent causes of injuries. Since ee who was a passenger in a Brenntag ­accidents involving vehicles can also have severe consequences, truck was killed in a road accident not extensive preventative programmes have been established caused by the driver. in the Brenntag regions. The focus here ranges from driving safety training, including for sales employees, to the use of A closer analysis of the accidents shows devices to analyze driving in trucks, to improved road signage that slips/trips/falls, chemical burns, for internal transport and for pedestrians at our sites. acci­dents involving vehicles and accidents involving equipment/tools are Brenntag’s primary objective is to prevent all types of accithe most common causes of injuries dents and incidents. That is why rather than resting on our and ab­sences from work at Brenntag. laurels, we continually endeavour to further improve our Our measures are therefore focused safety culture. on ­making improvements here. With regard to chemical burns in particular, which are an industry-specific injury, a wide range of measures has enabled us to reduce the number of incidents Group-wide by 79% between 2010 PROMOTE UNDERSTANDING: Managers from Brenntag France accompanied Brenntag’s drivers for a whole day and were thus able to gain an impression of the daily challenges they face regarding occupational safety. 18 HEIGHTEN AWARENESS: The high-visibility jackets at Brenntag UK & Ireland encourage every employee to approach the wearer if they notice them behaving in an unsafe manner. BEST PROGRAMME: A key element of our efforts to increase Operations and Sales areas to spend a safety is the global Brenntag Enhanced Safety Thinking (BEST) day travelling around with the d ­ rivers. programme, which was launched in 2015. It focuses on the A total of 68 accompanied tours took safety behaviour of Brenntag employees at all levels w ­ ithin place in the reporting p ­ eriod and the the company, which is the primary cause of accidents in positive feedback from both sides more than 80% of cases. Based on action plans, various proconvinced the decision-­makers to congrammes and measures were implemented in the Brenntag tinue with this BEST practice in the regions and national organizations in the year under review future. to promote safe behaviour and to correct dangerous behaviour. These centre on regular and extensive communication At Brenntag UK & Ireland, orange on safety aspects, greater involvement and motivation of emhigh-visibility jackets were introduced ployees and increased visibility of exemplary safety leaders in July 2016, on the back of which is within the company. printed “Am I safe? Talk to me”. The aim is to encourage employees to speak directly to the person wearing PRACTICAL the jacket if they see them engaging EXAMPLES in unsafe behaviour – even if the perBelow are a number of practical examples and highlights son is a line manager or authorizing from our regions, giving an insight into the BEST practices officer. Hierarchy levels are proven to and ­safety culture at Brenntag: be a reason why attention is not drawn ­immediately to dangerous behaviour. In 2016, a regular “walk-around” was introduced at Brenntag Benelux for representatives from management. Following To increase the “personalization” of the walk-around, they discussed their impressions and the safety, the Brenntag organizations in safety-related aspects of the various workflows with the Latin America have launched various employees working at the sites. This is enhancing the cominitiatives as part of their comprehenCASA stands for mon understanding of safety across the various levels within sive CASA programme. Under the m ­ otto quality (CALIDAD), health and safety the company. A similar initiative was launched by Brenntag of “Safety is my option”, employees in (SEGURIDAD & SALUD) France: the drivers here wanted improved communication Colombia are requested to perform and the environment (MEDIO AMBIENTE). with the managers and a greater understanding of the daily their own individual risk analysis that challenges they face in terms of occupational safety. The HSE also explicitly covers their personal team subsequently arranged for managers from the HSE, lives in addition to their workplace and their job activities. The “Repositioning the family” programme at Brenntag ­Ecuador also aims to involve the families BRENNTAG AG SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 2016 SAFETY﻿ 19 of employees in the culture of safety The effectiveness of the various measures is reflected in the through safety and rescue exercises and successes celebrated by Brenntag in 2016: information events on health, group dynamics and alcohol and drug abuse, // A  t 36 of the 49 Brenntag sites in ­Europe with more for example. Safety in their personal life than 40 emplo­yees, not a single accident-related ­ and the desire to return home safely to day of absence (LTI) was recorded in the year under their family every day are proven to review. ­Furthermore, eight of these sites were LTI-free motivate employees to engage in safe for five years. behaviour at the workplace. The annual // Our location in East Point, Georgia, home to our North “CASA Week”, which was held throughAmerican organization Brenntag Mid-South, was even out the Latin America region in April, more successful in this regard: in April 2016, it cele­ also focused on the personalization of brated 7,000 accident-free days. safety. As part of this health and s­ afety // In May 2016, the Mexican industry association ANIQ week, a diverse range of activities, granted Brenntag Mexico the award for “Best Practices workshops, games and exercises took in Integral Responsibility” in the “Workplace Health place at all locations, with customers, and Safety” category for its exemplary occupational suppliers and service providers also safety measures at the Querétaro facility. The site had invited in addition to the families of been ­accident-free for 3,000 days at this time – a period employees. ­during which approximately one million tonnes of ­chemicals were mobilized. Delivering long session of training on a // The performance of our Jordi Camp site in Spain with regular basis especially to front line level around 90 employees was also rewarded: in June 2016, is not practical. It also does not provide the Brenntag Iberia site received an award from the the desired impact. Therefore, Brenntag Spanish chemical industry association FEIQUE for its Indonesia is using alternative ways to particular efforts in the area of occupational safety and ensure our front line employees are rean accident rate of 0% in 2015. ceiving and understand the m ­ essages and training we are providing to them by using tools such as daily toolbox RECOGNITION: The Spanish chemical association, FEIQUE, talks, smartphone applications, notice praised the Brenntag site at boards, and utilizing brief time slots durJordi Camp for its exemplary approach to safety in the ing no-production days such as on stock workplace. counting day to convey short but concise educational messages. This approach has helped Brenntag Indonesia continuously improve safety knowledge and awareness while making safety part of their normal routine. In 2016, Brenntag UK & Ireland also began sending short mobile text messages and notifications to the users of company phones. This means that safety issues can quickly and easily reach employees who are often on the road for Brenntag. BRENNTAG AG SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 2016 20 ConnectingChemistry “WE CAN ONLY ENSURE GOOD SAFETY WHEN WORKING TOGETHER.” I’m AAFKE DIJKSMA OPERATIONS MANAGER, BRENNTAG NETHERLANDS WHAT EXACTLY DOES AN accident occur, we interview all the people involved to make OPERATIONS MANAGER HAVE TO sure we identify the real cause of the accident, define the DO WITH SAFETY? lessons learnt and implement an effective measure. As an Operations Manager, I have to SO YOU ARE DIRECTLY INVOLVED IN SAFETY make sure that Brenntag’s policies are INVESTIGATIONS AND PROCEDURES? implemented correctly and that starts with making sure everybody clearly Management involvement is very important, that’s the reaunder­stands the rules. This includes son why I periodically organize safety meetings and safety our HSE strategy and regulations. We walks. Formally, I have to do the safety walks twice a year per have regular HSE meetings on EMEA, site – sometimes with full protection, so that I can closely Benelux and local level to share insee the condition of danger zones. In practice, I’m present at formation about new procedures, every site on a regular basis and always look out for safety near ­misses and accidents. Should an breaches. After a while you learn to spot them immediately. BRENNTAG AG SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 2016 SAFETY﻿ 21 WHAT DO YOU CONSIDER AS THE BESIDES THE SAFETY WALKS, HOW DO YOU ENSURE MOST CRITICAL ASPECT FOR GOOD THAT ALL THE FACILITIES YOU ARE RESPONSIBLE FOR ARE SAFETY PERFORMANCE? ON TOP OF SAFETY? Most of the accidents and near misses Safety must be present every day. That’s why the shift leaders are caused by human behaviour, such kick off each shift with a “Safe Start Moment” where they as distraction, taking shortcuts or rouaddress a safety-related topic of the previous day or put tine in the daily job. A certain routine focus on the risks related to a certain procedure or activity may help to get a lot of work done planned for the shift. On a regular basis, we have meetings more quickly but it raises the risk of with our co-workers about new safety instructions, new forgetting about safety aspects at the regulations, risk analysis but also to give them feedback same time. If you want to increase on proposals they made. These meetings are a very good ­safety, you need to change their awareplatform to discuss diverse topics and to get an insight of ness and behaviour. what our employees are facing during the day. A strong communication and feedback culture is essential to improve safety “Speak up when you spot unsafe behaviour. Speak up when you see something! That’s what I try to live behaviour! That’s what I try to live up up to myself. When I spot an unsafe to myself and to encourage my situation during my safety walks, it’s co-workers to do.” important to directly intervene – not just write it down for documentation but to go to the co-workers and discuss it. I think we are on a good way, and just recently we achieved an important safety milestone in Rotterdam by passing five years without recording a lost time injury. We need to share positive stories and energize involvement. BRENNTAG AG SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 2016 22 In addition, we share best practices and experiences not only within Brenntag Benelux but also within the EMEA region. There are regular meetings with the operations managers or dedicated HSE meetings, and we share our safety knowledge via LINK which is an intranet platform. So, communication is a big part of my job and I really enjoy working and inter­acting with all the different people here at Brenntag, exchanging experiences and ideas with plant managers, supervisors, shift leaders, operators and drivers. That’s why my door is alan efficient and safe manner. We invested a lot in safety ways open and I listen actively to their systems, for instance in specialized fire-fighting systems, the thoughts. way of loading and unloading the tanktrucks and the location of our underground tanks. And not only at Rotterdam ROTTERDAM IS ONE OF THE BIGGEST but also at our other sites in the Benelux, we use highlyBRENNTAG HUBS WITHIN EUROPE. automated, dedicated filling lines which enable us to fill ARE THERE ANY SPECIAL CHALLENGES acids, lyes and solvents in a highly efficient but also safe way OR REQUIREMENTS WHEN IT COMES for our workers because it reduces their exposure to the prodTO SAFETY? ucts. At the end of the day, that’s the most important thing. At Rotterdam, we receive around WHAT DOES SAFETY MEAN TO YOU PERSONALLY? 120,000 tons of liquid bulk by ship each year, around 35,000 tons bulk in For me “Safety First” is the most important of Brenntag’s tanktrucks and an additional 25,000 core values. Every colleague who leaves for work in the tons in packed goods. We built this morning should expect to return home in good health at facility in 2008 and during the design the end of the working day. That’s not only the responsibility process there was a constant focus on of the plant managers, supervisors and shift leaders, but the Learn more about AAFKE DIJKSMA at organizing all the different activities in responsibility of everybody at Brenntag. Only together can www.brenntag.com/ we ensure the highest levels of safety. aafkedijksma BRENNTAG AG SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 2016 ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION﻿ 23 ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION MAKING OUR CONTRIBUTION Protecting the environment has always ENERGY been of importance to Brenntag. As part The data collected in the course of the HSE programmes of our business activities, we consume implemented give an insight into the type and volume of water, electricity and different types resource consumption. In 2015, Brenntag implemented a of fuel, while simultaneously producGroup-wide energy reporting in order to make its own ening waste, waste water and various air ergy consumption and associated CO2 emissions more transemissions. As a chemical distributor, parent. This involves the sites’ energy consumption figures we also deal with products that could being recorded per quarter and compiled centrally. These damage the environment if they are data are then used to identify energy-saving potential. To handled incorrectly. We aim to procomplement this reporting, employees from the Brenntag tect resources and use them optimally regions share their experiences with best practices and sucaround the world, and to minimize the cessful energy-saving measures. Since the reporting system impact that our business activities have was only implemented at the end of 2015, we are reporting on the soil, water and air. At the same consolidated data for the Brenntag Group for the first time time, Brenntag supports its customers for 2016. Our target is to reduce the Scope 1 and 2 CO2 emiswith sustainable solutions and helps to sions (per warehouse tonne of goods sold) by 6% by 2020 preserve the environment with ecologi­ compared to 2016. cally efficient products, processes and services. ENERGY CONSUMPTION BRENNTAG GROUP 2016 Electricity Gas Diesel Petrol Other* When it comes to protecting the envi(in MWh) (in MWh) (in 1,000 (in 1,000 (in 1,000 litres) litres) litres) ronment and climate, Brenntag also acts in accordance with the “Safety First” Total 173,171 273,230 43,031 9,144 4,742 principle and has incorporated the funPer 1,000 ware­ damental aspects of its activities into house tonnes of goods sold 18.61 29.36 4.62 0.98 0.51 its global HSE strategy. Brenntag’s sites For Brenntag’s ­ HSE STRATEGY and around the world implement numerous * Gas oil, kerosene, propane gas organization, please see environmental protection and ­efficiency the Safety chapter on page 12. For ISO 14001 measures in the context of local and CO2 EMISSIONS* BRENNTAG GROUP 2016 certifications at Brenntag, regional conditions and legislative replease see the Safety Scope 1 Scope 2 Scope 1 + 2 chapter on page 14. quirements, tailored to their individual activities. These internal measures focus Total (in tonnes) 195,305 74,807 270,112 on energy and water consumption, the Per 1,000 warehouse protection of soil, water and air, waste tonnes of goods sold (in tonnes) 20.99 8.04 29.03 reduction, and transport and fleet management. * CO2 emissions are calculated for electricity on the basis of the respective country-­ specific factors, in accordance with the Green House Gas Protocol Factors (2012), and for all other energy types on the basis of the energy-specific factors defined in the UK Government GHG Conversion Factors for Company Reporting (2016). These data do not include the following operating units: Brenntag Inter­national Chemicals and the units in Africa and the Middle East. BRENNTAG AG SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 2016 24 PRACTICAL Various smaller measures were imple­ EXAMPLES mented at Brenntag’s sites in the During the year under review, Brenntag Specialties in the ­Dominican Republic and Costa Rica USA replaced a 40-year-old boiler at its site in Philadelphia, in the year under review: the officPennsylvania, which is used to heat the large oil tanks. The es and storage areas were fitted with investment is paying off with a significant reduction in ­energy energy-saving LEDs, motion sensors consumption and energy costs as well as with lower emiswere installed and old air-conditioning sions. Like the old boiler, the newly installed heating system units were replaced with more efficient uses natural gas, but has a heat conversion rate of 98%, ­models. This has cut electricity con­making it a substantial 20% more efficient. sumption in the Dominican Republic by around 20 megawatt hours, or roughly After an energy audit at its Trezzano site at the end of 2015, 8%, compared to 2015; in Costa Rica, a Brenntag Italy initiated Wasserverbrauch total a pilot project to test various ­efficiency reduction of eleven megawatt hours, or (in Mio.and measures Liter) assess their impact on energy consumption in almost 12%, has been recorded. order to improve energy management. The focus in the year under review was on optimizing the compressor systems WATER used. As a result of various measures, energy consumption Brenntag uses water in its business was reduced by 15% compared to the previous year. For 2017, operations, for example to produce energy-saving measures are planned for forklift trucks, such solutions, to clean pipe systems and as the use of hybrid vehicles. to cool or heat chemicals and tank facilities. As a result, water consumption The Brenntag site in Chiajna, Romania, began replacing its varies widely at Brenntag’s sites and is obsolete lighting system in 2015 as part of a gradual process, subject to fluctuations, as it is largely and only uses LEDs as of November 2016. This has led to endependent on the nature and scope of ergy savings at around six megawatt hours per month, which the products handled and services procorresponds to a reduction in electricity consumption of 33%. vided. In addition, water is needed to operate the buildings and facilities, for example in the sanitary facilities or to BRENNTAG LATIN AMERICA: WATER CONSUMPTION clean surfaces. TOTAL PER WAREHOUSE TONNE OF GOODS SOLD Wasserverbrauch pro verkaufte Tonne Lagerware Brenntag obtains around 90% of its (IN LITRES) Wasserverbrauch total (IN MILLIONS OF LITRES) (in Liter) water from the public water supply in Mio. Liter) 80.0 network for the activities mentioned. At present, water consumption is not 86.0 69.3 recorded and consolidated on a Group73.2 61.4 wide basis, as it has proven to be more efficient to manage the issue regionally. 57.4 2014 2015 2016 2014 2015 2016 Wasserverbrauch pro verkaufte Tonne Lagerware in Liter) ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION﻿ 25 PRACTICAL use of drinking water, which was colEXAMPLES lected after the cleaning operations and Brenntag Latin America regularly records the water consumpthen disposed of as industrial waste wation at all of its sites as part of its extensive CASA programme. ter. The site has now installed a simple, For CASA see also page 18. This enables the region to document, analyze and manage cost-effective system in order to make the volume and type of consumption over time and to implethis cleaning water reusable. In a first ment various efficiency measures. Total water consumption in step, it is collected in a special tank and the reporting period was reduced by around 33% compared mechanically filtered using paper. It is to the previous year. There are several reasons for the flucthen chemically treated so that the retuations in consumption over time: changes in the product maining dirt particles flocculate and the portfolio increased or reduced water needs, while acquisitions pH value of the treated water reaches resulted in the addition of new sites. Water-intensive prothe legally required level. 90% of the cesses, such as hydrostatic testing of new tanks or functional water purified and processed in this tests of fire protection systems, also occur on an irregular way is used for cleaning operations at basis. Overall, the measures implemented in the region and the site. The positive effects: the volume the gradual improvements in reporting are paying off with a of industrial waste water is reduced by reduction in water consumption, and the HSE managers are around eleven tonnes annually, less noticing an increased level of awareness among employees drinking water is consumed and the for the efficient use of resources. laboratory’s operating costs are cut. In order to clean the instruments in its development laboraBy reconfiguring the tank and pipe systory in Buenos Aires, Brenntag Argentina consumes around tem for caustic and bleach material at 1,000 litres of water per month. Previously, this involved the the Houston-Greens Bayou site in ­Texas, Brenntag Southwest in the USA has been able to reduce the impact of process flush water, cut disposal costs and recycle chemicals. Caustic and bleach material are handled and stored at the site. The tanks and pipelines have to be flushed regularly as part of this. This cleaning water, which contains around 14% Sodium Hydroxide and 4% Bleach deposits, was previously collected separately and sent directly to a third-­party company for disposal. This resulted in around 16 truck loads per year, or roughly 330 tonnes. This process flush WATER CONSUMPTION: Brenntag uses water in its operational activities, for example in the production of solutions, as well as for the general operation of buildings and plants like in cleaning purposes for example. 26 BY ROAD AND RAIL: Goods and products are transported by truck and train to and from the Brenntag sites – the mode of transportation depends on the type of goods and the infrastructure of the site. water is now filtered and the bleach parWith many of Brenntag’s sites having been used industrially ticles in it are collected. These are then for decades, including those purchased through acquisitions, piped to a Brenntag owned facility locatthere is historical soil and groundwater contamination at the ed on the site, where they are convertsites, which we are combatting with appropriate cleaning ed into a lower grade industrial bleach. measures. Since 2003/2004, the soil and groundwater situa­ Around 50% of the bleach flushed out tion at all the sites has been reviewed and recorded annualand subsequently collected can thus be ly in cooperation with external partners and the necessary recycled into a lucrative product for suit­remediation measures have been derived and implemented. able applications. Whenever new buildings or plants are constructed or necessary modernization and renovation work is undertaken, PROTECTION OF SOIL, WATER AND AIR environmental protection issues are considered and reflectWe work continuously on minimizing ed both in terms of the construction approach and plant the environmental impacts of our busiengineering. ness activities on the soil, water and air. Various measures such as investAll of Brenntag’s sites implement suitable environmental ments in the infrastructure, optimized protection measures that vary in their form and extent, dework procedures and employee qualifi­ pending on the work performed at the site, the legal requirecations are implemented with a view ments in the country and the site’s construction history. Basic to identi­fying environmental risks early measures include multilayer soil protection in warehousing on and to avoid environmentally ­related areas, double-walled tanks for acids and alkalis, collection ­incidents. Brenntag’s sites in all of its tanks, closed water cycles, multistage water purification and ­regions fully comply with the appli­ treatment processes, and modern air and exhaust air purificable rules and regulations relating to cation systems. the protection of the environment and also fulfil our Group’s stringent environIn the rare event that chemicals are released during processmental and safety standards. ing, when being transferred between containers or during transportation, Brenntag takes the appropriate steps to remedy the problem, clean up and dispose of the chemicals as quickly as possible. Such spillages are recorded, categorized and evaluated using a standardized system. BRENNTAG AG SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 2016 ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION﻿ 27 PRACTICAL EXAMPLE Brenntag El Salvador has implemented an exemplary recycling project that benefits not just the environment but also the local neighbourhood at the site in San Salvador: non-hazardous chemicals and products are regularly delivered to Brenntag in what are known as flexibags. This packaging consists of metal bars, cardboard and various fabric and plastic covers, much of which does not come into contact with the products delivered. In line with the 3R principle (“reduction, reuse, recycling”) as part of the CASA programme operated by Brenntag Latin America, our employees use the plastic covers to protect wooden pallets, the metal rods to fortify the warehouse racks and the cardboard as dividers. They donate the large fabric covers to various establishments in the neighbourhood: a school uses them to make sun protection shields for the students, while a church community uses them to make tarpaulins for their vans. As a result, roughly one tonne of material is recycled, which is a recycling rate of 67%. TRANSPORT/FLEET MANAGEMENT As a distributor, Brenntag maintains its own fleet of vehicles. To keep fuel consumption and harmful emissions to a minimum, structured transport logistics are used at our sites to avoid unnecessary trips and to make the trips taken by our vehicles as efficient as possible. Additionally, fuel-efficient driving is part of the regular training undergone by the WASTE/RECYCLING Brenntag drivers. The Brenntag sites have implemented processes for the handling of waste and Many Brenntag companies use telematics systems in order to also take-back and recycling systems for optimize the use of their vehicle fleets. They record vehicle various types of packaging and containand trip-related data such as fuel consumption, speed and ers, each in line with the site’s type and driving duration. These on-board units also directly facilitate volume of business. As part of this, we safe and eco-efficient driving, for example by providing visual maintain a close dialogue with manuand acoustic warning signals for the driver or by displaying facturers and with the national ­umbrella driving speed, braking behaviour and engine idling. associations of chemicals dealers, with the common goal of reducing the volume of waste in the industry and inPRACTICAL EXAMPLES creasing recycling rates. In order to reduce fuel consumption of its fleet, Brenntag Brenntag also ensures that unnecessary Mid-South in the USA analyzed the idle times of the engines. waste is avoided right from the outset Thanks to the telematics systems installed and the analysis and that the volume of waste is reduced system connected to them, typical idle times can be attributed by giving its employees intensive and to certain operations and situations. For example, a tanker regular training in the handling, storuses the auxiliary drive system to create air pressure for unage and transportation of chemical loading the material. The analysis made it possible to identify products. drivers and situations whereby the expected idle times were exceeded. Discussions were conducted with the respective employees in order to identify the causes of the discrepancies and, if necessary, to bring about a change in their driving behaviour through coaching. The measure helped to improve the efficiency of the entire fleet of Brenntag Mid-South, which consists of 331 vehicles, by 0.8 kilometres per gallon of fuel (3.8 litres). This represents a fuel consumption reduction of around 8,880 gallons (around 33,600 litres) per year. BRENNTAG AG SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 2016 28 KNOW-HOW: Brenntag’s experts possess in-depth knowledge in the fields of chemicals, components, procedures, processes and application technologies. They assist our customers in developing tailored formulations. At Brenntag in Austria, all internal transport between the Brenntag’s expertise and portfolio thus two sites Traun and Wiener Neustadt was switched from help to improve the level of efficiency road to rail in the year under review. Around 520 truck trips within the supply chain and support its per year are replaced on the 220-kilometre route. This will customers’ optimized use of resources reduce the annual fuel consumption of Brenntag Austria by and improved productivity. around 32,000 litres and its CO2 emissions by approximately 85 tonnes. PRACTICAL EXAMPLES SUSTAINABLE SOLUTIONS FOR OUR CUSTOMERS Brenntag’s employees have in-depth expertise in the fields of In 2016, Brenntag added two innovachemicals, components, procedures, processes and applicative rheology modifiers to its range of tion technologies. They are experts on the industries of indiproducts for the paper and pulp indusvidual customers, cooperate closely with the manufacturers try: both products are used as additives and are familiar with applicable safety and quality regulations. primarily in the production of corruOur technicians who work in numerous application industries gated cardboard, where they influence assist our customers in developing tailored formulations and the flow properties. In contrast to conadvise them on ways to optimize the use and handling of ventional boron-containing substances, the products. one product is free from carcinogenic, mutagenic and reprotoxic components Brenntag also endeavours to continuously add new products (CMR-free). The second product still conto its portfolio which increase efficiency, reduce consumptains Borax but in a liquid form which tion or decrease environmental impact when applied, thereby makes handling and usage s­ afer and providing sustainable alternatives to conventional products. more sustainable. Brenntag has acIn this regard, our goal is to set up pilot projects with ten quired the licences for both of the pa­ selected key suppliers by 2020 and in doing so become the tented products and the exclusive rights preferred distributor for sustainable solutions. for blending, selling and distributing them globally (with the exception of North America and Mexico). BRENNTAG AG SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 2016 ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION﻿ 29 In the Asia Pacific region, Brenntag has product EA1 manufactured by Earth Alive Clean Technologies. been working with a Korean producer This is a 100% organic and biodegradable product based on in the area of chemicals recycling since the latest advances in microbial technology. It is free from November 2015. The partner company hygroscopic salts such as calcium chloride and magnesium treats chemicals used in the electronchloride, petroleum-based derivatives and other harsh chemics manufacturing so that they can be icals usually used to control dust. It does not dry the soil out reused in other industries. As part of either. According to the manufacturer’s estimates, as a result a joint project, Brenntag Asia Pacific of the introduction of EA1, more than 80% of the fresh water promotes the use of recycled solvents used for dust control can be saved and used in the production among its customers in the coatings processes of the minerals. In 2015, Brenntag entered into a industry. The purity requirements of multi-year exclusive distribution agreement for EA1 for the the chemicals used determine ­whether countries mentioned. In Colombia, Brenntag also works totreated chemicals are suitable for a gether with Earth Alive in the area of liquid fertilizer. As part particular application. Brenntag proof a joint project, we have achieved the stability and the comvides extensive application expertise patibility between Brenntag’s Agrofeed liquid formulations for promotion of the recycled chemicals. and Soil Activator™, with what we can offer to our clients in Initial sales successes were recorded in the flower and vegetable sector our liquid formulations com­Vietnam in the year under review. bining the benefits of Agrofeed and Soil Activator™. Brenntag has been working with BASF Air pollution emissions from shipping continue to grow and for many years in the sale of ­plasticizers. in order to improve this situation regulations have been inOur portfolio here primarily comtroduced which specify that the sulphur content of ship fuels prises the non-phthalate plasticizer should be significantly reduced by the year 2020. As a leading PLASTICIZERS are used to soften hard PVC, thereby ­Hexamoll®DINCH, which was specially distributor of specialty chemicals that reduce harmful emismaking it flexible and developed for applications with close sions, Brenntag has been able to help both ship operators durable. contact with people. It is therefore and specialist maritime service providers meet this challenge. parti­cularly suitable for the manufacture Through the utilization of its extensive global operational of sensitive items such as toys, medifootprint, experts at Brenntag have successfully developed a cines or clothing. Brenntag sells the robust logistics and supply chain solution, which enables the BASF products exclusively in numerous safe delivery of both Liquid Caustic Soda and Urea Solution ­European countries and also began directly to cruise liners, which dock at ten ports in Europe, ­doing so in the African market in 2016. plus Dubai, the Dominican Republic, Canada and the UnitAs part of a project in Ghana, for exed States. These products optimize the effectiveness of the ample, Brenntag advised customers on systems that are used to purify ship emissions. the use of plasticizers in the production of flip-flops. To ensure that top-quality ­advice is provided, the Brenntag employees in Africa received special training beforehand at BASF in Ludwigshafen on the properties and possible applications of the various plasticizers. An issue of increasing importance in the agriculture and mining industry is dust formation. The dust raised up from the ground during the activities is deposited and bound by either water or chemicals. For this process, Brenntag provides its customers in the Latin America region and in Canada with a sustainable solution via the microbial dust suppressant BRENNTAG AG SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 2016 30 “A COMPANY WITHOUT ENVIRONMENTAL PRINCIPLES IS A COMPANY WITHOUT A FUTURE” I’m ROBINSON MUÑOZ CASA MANAGER, BRENNTAG COLOMBIA I joined Brenntag Colombia in 2009 and business is such that we cannot feel exempt from accidents since day one I have found that no two that can potentially lead to injuries to people, damage to the days are the same. Our business is very environment or a less-than-expected level of service for our dynamic, so your mind is always alert customers. Nonetheless, Brenntag Colombia has had a zero and ready to make the right decision – accident rate in the last five years. Seeing how each day ends especially when it comes to safety. My with people going home safely and with zero impact on the role as a CASA Manager is to support environment fills us with pride. This is achieved because we and implement Brenntag Latin Amerihave the best staff, working with the strictest of strategies ca’s Quality, Safety and the Environment and procedures. For CASA see also program which is called CASA to ensure page 18. sustainability all throughout our company’s supply chain and at all our six sites “With our planet it’s the same in Colombia. as with your home: you care for it, Our challenge is a daily one. Each day you repair it, you have rules, we move hundreds of tonnes of chemyou educate your children.” icals within our various premises, by land and by sea. The nature of our BRENNTAG AG SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 2016 ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION﻿ 31 The comprehensive CASA programme implemented at Brenntag Colombia comprises several policies, procedures and programmes that support our environmental objectives: it is in compliance with national legislation, international protocols as well as standards of chemical industry associations. We are working with suppliers that are seriously committed to protecting the environment. We are efficiently using natural resources like energy and water in our processes. For example, we have implemented recycling and water and energy saving campaigns and have modified our infrastructure to make it more environmentally friendly. From the moment when facilities are built or upgraded, we make sure that they meet the highest safety standards in issues such as containment, API standards for tanks, electrical standards, fire systems, certified hoses and safe processing equipment. In addition, Brenntag Colombia advises its customers on caring responsibly for the materials we sell them and offers them, whenever possible, a portfolio of environmentally friendly products for their processes and applications. In addition, Brenntag Colombia’s strategies include the development of social assistance programs with an environmental focus. To give an example: in a project called “Sowing hope” we gave recyclable waste that was generated at our site in Mosquera to an education center for children from low-inThe challenge is to change habits come families. They use the recyclable resources to plant trees The most critical aspect for a good CASA and sow seeds. This experience enhances the children’s envir­ performance is to continuously work on onmental education by raising their awareness for protecting making safety a part of our DNA and the environment. our behavior. Changing behaviors may not be easy but it is possible. We need to be consistent with our policies and we need to transmit Brenntag’s message of respect for the environment to each employee. That’s why for example each day starts with five-minute talks with all the staff. This is the perfect time to convey messages focused on quality, ­safety and the environment. This is also a good opportunity to listen to people. I’m convinced that the day you stop talking about caring for the environment, you miss a great opportunity for directing habits towards an environmentally friendly culture. BRENNTAG AG SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 2016 32 We see that our efforts are paying off most responsible in protecting the We at Brenntag Colombia saw encouraging results in the environment. A company without enfield of environmental protection and a great CASA perforvironmental values and principles is a mance achievement in recent years. In the last five years company without a future in the marwe have had a zero accident rate and we have gained the ket. And in the end, everyone should internal CASA Award that is given annually to a company of care about environmental protection the Brenntag Latin America region in recognition of being because this planet is our home. We a leader in terms of safety, quality and the environment. only have this one earth and it is our Most recently, the CASA team successfully participated in responsibility to protect and care for managing the sub-contractors that built the storage units, it. It is like your home: you care for it, tanks and filling stations at the Mosquera site – a huge you repair it, you have rules, you edu­ project that was finalized with a zero accident rate. cate your children – with our ­planet it’s the same thing but on a larger Brenntag is a company that strives to improve on an on­ scale. going basis and that poses professional challenges every day. I am proud to say that the CASA team at Brenntag Colombia is doing its best to contribute to Brenntag’s vision of being the safest distributor worldwide and the BRENNTAG AG SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 2016 SUPPLY CHAIN RESPONSIBILITY﻿ 33 SUPPLY CHAIN RESPONSIBILITY OUR JOINT APPROACH Safety and quality are key factors for success in the chemconsider sustainability issues in our ical industry. They can only be ensured through the close purchasing decisions. We have set ourcooperation of all parties along the supply and value chain. selves a target of analyzing 50% of our See Company Profile and VALUE CHAIN GRAPH Issues such as occupational safety, environmental protection, total chemical spend with assessments on page 4. labour practices, supplier management and compliance are by 2020. therefore key topics for the industry. When choosing business partners and therefore making purchasing decisions, they are A project team has taken charge of important criteria alongside aspects such as product quality, conducting the assessments and adreliability of supply and price. vancing the issue of sustainable procurement within our international As the global market leader in chemical distribution, Brenntag corporate structures. The team consists serves as an important link between the manufacturers of of a steering committee comprising chemical products and the companies that process these employees with strategic and oper­ products. We maintain a close and ongoing dialogue with ational experience, Brenntag’s sustainour suppliers and customers through our regional and global ability coordinator and representatives procurement and distribution organizations as well as our from the four Brenntag regions and HSE structures. The majority of these business relationships from the Brenntag Global Sourcing and partnerships go back many years. Organization. Since 2015, around 120 Brenntag purchasing employees have SUPPLIER MANAGEMENT also undergone training covering the In selecting new suppliers and evaluating existing supplier assessment procedure and thereby also relationships, both economic and quality criteria and issues ­sustainability issues, enabling them to of environmental protection and safety, labour and social assist and to advise their suppliers durstandards as well as compliance and governance are releing the review process. vant for Brenntag. We work together with EcoVadis, SUPPLIER CODE OF CONDUCT: In October 2015, Brenntag a leading provider of sustainability drew up a code of conduct specifying what we expect of our ­assess­ments and well established in suppliers in the areas mentioned. The code is based on the the chemical industry. EcoVadis evaluprinciples of the United Nations Global Compact, the chemical ates companies in terms of four categoindustry’s global Responsible Care programme and Brenntag’s ries: environmental protection, labour Code of Business Conduct and Ethics. It can be found on the practices, fair business practices and company’s website and is therefore available to all suppliers. sustainable procurement. On the basis In order to verify compliance with the code of conduct, we of the responses provided in a cominvite selected suppliers to undergo a sustainability assessprehensive online questionnaire and ment or audit. on the accompanying documentation, EcoVadis awards scoring points and SUSTAINABILITY ASSESSMENTS FOR SUPPLIERS: Within the produces a detailed profile of strengths scope of its membership of the “Together for Sustainability” and weaknesses. Brenntag reviews the industry initiative, Brenntag requires a defined number of its findings and, based on its suppliers’ suppliers to undergo sustainability assessments every year. performance, requires them to make We thereby achieve greater transparency in relation to our improvements or to undergo a supplesuppliers’ sustainability performance and are able to better mentary audit. BRENNTAG AG SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 2016 34 95 suppliers have completed the assessment programme TOGETHER FOR SUSTAINABILITY since it was launched in 2015. In eight cases, a “Corrective Brenntag has been involved in the Action Plan” was initiated based on the findings of the assesschemical industry’s ­“Together for Susment. The suppliers now have to provide further information tainability” initiative (TfS) since October on the points identified and/or implement remedial measures 2014 and became a full member in Ocwww.tfs-initiative.com within a certain period of time. At the end of 2016, Brenntag tober 2016 when we achieved EcoVadis analyzed around 16% of its chemical spend through supplier gold status – the first and, to date, only sustainability assessments. chemical distributor to do so. BRENNTAG AS A SUPPLIER TfS was founded by six leading multi­ For a number of years now, Brenntag has registered an innational chemical companies in 2011. creasing demand for information on how we deal with susIts goal is to establish a uniform global tainability issues – particularly on the part of our custom­programme for the responsible procureers. We are regularly asked to document our sustainability ment of goods and services in the chemperform­ance. We are pleased to respond to these needs by ical industry, to achieve trans­parency in making our principles and activities transparent and measrelation to sustainability ­performance urable in various ways. As well as our annual sustainability throughout the supply chain and to make ­report, this also includes our own regular EcoVadis assessfurther improvements to its ­suppliers’ ment as well as issue-specific audits at our locations. ecological and social standards. For this purpose, all TfS members regularly eva­lu­ ECOVADIS SCORE: In its most recent EcoVadis assessment ate and review their suppliers by means in October 2016, the Brenntag Group achieved a score of of a standardized process. This infor­ 66 points, thereby improving to gold status (Gold Recognition mation is shared confidentially and used Level). This result puts us well above the average within our ­jointly within the network, which provides industry sector (42.2 points in October 2016) and ranks us ­efficiency benefits for every participant. EcoVadis-Scoring 2016: GOLD STATUS FOR among the TOP 1% of suppliers in this category as well as BRENNTAG among the TOP 2% of suppliers assessed overall by EcoVadis As a full member, Brenntag has a seat across all industry categories. As specified in our sustainability and voting rights at the general astargets (see page 7), we will endeavour to maintain our gold sembly, the top decision-making body status and further improve our score. of TfS. This gives us an opportunity to work with the other member companies SAFETY DATA SHEETS: As a distributor, Brenntag plays a to shape the ongoing development of ­major role in safeguarding the seamless flow of information the initiative and to advance the issue of along the supply chain and must ensure complete product sustainability in the chemical industry’s documentation. Together with every product sold, Brenntag supply chain. therefore sends its customers safety data sheets that contain specific and detailed information on the appropriate and safe handling of the chemical in question. We thereby make a very concrete contribution to greater transparency and safety in the supply chain. In 2016, Brenntag EMEA alone sent a good 450,000 safety data sheets to customers. BRENNTAG AG SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 2016 SUPPLY CHAIN RESPONSIBILITY﻿ 35 “ALL PARTS OF THE SUPPLY CHAIN NEED TO MEET THEIR RESPONSIBILITIES” KARSTEN BECKMANN Member of the Board of Management of Brenntag AG and CEO of Brenntag EMEA “As the world’s number one chemitransparency in the supply chain while at the same time cal distributor, Brenntag seeks to set put in place a process to improve sustainability performance. standards in its industry in the area This requires all parts of the supply chain to remain involved of ­s ustainability as well. Our exceland meet their responsibilities. lent performance in the last EcoVadis ­assessment, where we achieved gold As a common platform and international network, TfS prostatus, reflects our efforts to conti­nu­ vides all the parties involved with significant efficiency adously enhance our sustain­ability stratvantages and opportunities to interact. Brenntag can learn egy and performance. from the best-practice experiences of other TfS members and further professionalize its sustainability policies. The regular Both our excellent rating and our interaction and cooperation with other global players in our membership of the “Together for industry also on the issues of sustainable procurement will ­S ustain­a bility” initiative (TfS) distinalso strengthen our partnership. guish Brenntag from our compe­ti­ tors and will benefit us in particular At the same time, TfS membership and the associated effects among those customers and suppliers on our supplier management system will also pose a chalthat take sustainability aspects into lenge for our company and our purchasing organization. We consi­d eration when choosing their need to continuously select relevant companies from our supbusiness partners – and their numplier base for the assessments and audits and prompt them to ber is conti­n uously increasing. The voluntarily participate. At the same time, processes and rules issue of s­ ustainability has become a for dealing with assessment findings need to be established fundamental issue in the chemical in our own organization. Based on all these activities, we will industry’s s­ upply chain. Against this be able to further embed and professionalize the issue of backdrop, the TfS approach makes sustainability in Brenntag’s purchasing operations.” particular sense. The establishment of common standards and processes for assessing sustainability will increase BRENNTAG AG SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 2016 36 EMPLOYEES OUR FOUNDATION FOR THE FUTURE More than 15,000 people worldwide work at Brenntag and framework enables the Brenntag comwith their expertise and their dedication, they play a key role panies to take account of regional and in the company’s success and our long-term competitiveness. country-specific customs and practices For information Embedded in the corporate strategy and in Brenntag’s “2020 in the process. on “2020 VISION”, please see page 44 Vision”, the primary goal of our human resources strategy is of Brenntag’s 2016 for us to be regarded globally as an attractive employer – for PEOPLE PERFORMANCE MANAGEMENT: Annual Report. both current and potential employees. We believe we have Annual feedback dialogues take place a responsibility to offer them good working conditions and between employees and their direct a modern working environment and to encourage their permanagers in almost every Brenntag sonal and professional development in a targeted manner. company. During these “People Performance Management” dialogues, HUMAN RESOURCES STRATEGY AND MANAGEMENT the employee’s performance is usually Brenntag’s Global Human Resources Director reports directly considered, and upcoming targets and to the CEO and is responsible for ensuring that there is one personal expectations as well as any global HR strategy in place and for implementing correspondnecessary development measures are ing measures together with the HR managers in the various discussed. regions and for centrally managing these measures. The HR department regards itself as a strategic partner that assists In 2016, we introduced a globally standthe company with the implementation of changes and creardized format for this annual dialogue ates an environment where the best people want to work. Its as part of our people performance manoverarching objective is to position Brenntag as the preferred agement, the aim being to encourage employer globally in the field of chemical distribution. a culture of feedback among Brenntag employees. Training was provided to At a global level, various measures were implemented in 2016 familiarize both managers and employin the areas of people performance management, employee ees with the structure and content of development, identification and development of potential, the new format. It replaces the existing succession planning and job structures. These are outlined ones, with the result that all Brenntag in the subsequent chapters. employees will attend and document at least one formal people perforBrenntag’s operational human resources management mance management dialogue per year ­activities are handled on-site in its regions and at its various with their direct manager from 2017 locations. In line with our company’s global HR strategy as onwards. well as the goals and values, programmes and measures are implemented in the areas of employee recruitment, support EMPLOYEE DEVELOPMENT and development. PROGRAMMES AND TRAINING: During the reporting year, we continued to EMPLOYEE RECRUITMENT AND SUPPORT work on employee development forONBOARDING: In an onboarding framework developed in mats and training programmes for our 2016, we specified globally uniform minimum standards junior employees and managers. There for ensuring that new employees and those moving to new are special programmes at both Group roles within Brenntag can settle in quickly at our company level and in the Brenntag regions which and ­integrate properly into their new environment. The address the needs of these employee groups, prepare them for their management responsibilities and support them BRENNTAG AG SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 2016 EMPLOYEES﻿ 37 in their role. As well as providing and logistics, chemistry, environmental protection and quality enhancing management skills, Brenntag management – as well as personal development measures aims to encourage the systematic sharsuch as intercultural training, negotiating skills, presentation ing and transfer of knowledge by means techniques and conflict management. The training courses of these development programmes. in all Brenntag regions address the topic of occupational One example is the Brenntag Organic safety, as safeguarding our employees’ health and safety is For BOSS, see also Weiseong Fong’s Sustainable Strategies (BOSS) global a top priority for us. “I’m ”executive management programme, story on page 42. which is aimed at our company’s experi­ APPRENTICESHIP: Via the dual education and training system enced key players. in Germany, Austria and Switzerland, Brenntag is currently training almost 80 young people as management assistants For TRAININGS ON ­OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY Employee development at Brenntag in wholesale and foreign trade, logistics management assist­ see also the Safety is supported by the use of a global ants, office management assistants, laboratory technicians chapter on page 16. e-learning management system. The and warehouse staff. Alongside comprehensive apprenticesystem makes it possible to manage ship and the acquisition of technical skills and expertise, the and evaluate training modules better transfer of our corporate culture and company-specific workand helps to ensure that mandatory and ing processes as well as apprentices’ personal development important material reaches our employare at the forefront of the Brenntag scheme. For example, ees even more effectively. The tool was apprentices in Austria are offered personal development and used in 2016, for example, to conduct team-building training via the “Young Talents” programme: global training on the Brenntag Code at an interactive workshop held in 2016, they learned soluFor information on COMPLIANCE TRAINING of Business Conduct and Ethics. tion-based approaches and team skills through shared outat Brenntag, see page 10. door activities and team experiences. Due to the various regional and local requirements of the working environThanks to the wide array of apprenticeships on offer in variment as well as to cultural differences, ous commercial and industrial occupational areas, Brenntag Brenntag largely takes charge of and trains junior employees and managers in a targeted manner. manages further training and develAfter they have successfully completed the training, Brenntag opment measures on a decentralized offers attractive prospects and challenges to young high perbasis. Our employees receive training formers. Brenntag also provides graduates with a way into the in accordance with their duties in the world of work, for example by offering job-specific trainee company and their individual developprogrammes in Germany. ment needs. The training measures, which take the form of internal and external face-to-face events, courses and workshops as well as online seminars, cover technical topics – including sales, ACTIVE TOGETHER: Joint ­participation in sporting events and competitions is extremely popular among Brenntag employees around the world. These events are also often paired with some form of social engagement. BRENNTAG AG SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 2016 38 EMPLOYEE INFORMATION There are also idea management systems at many levels withAND INVOLVEMENT in Brenntag through which employees can become actively In addition to development prospects, involved. For example, our subsidiary Multisol in the UK reopen communication and opportunities wards employees for ideas submitted via an established systo play a part in shaping the company tem by giving them vouchers if the suggestions meet specific are important aspects that help to procriteria. Brenntag Iberia presents the “Innova Awards” every mote employee motivation and loyalty. year for the best ideas and unveils the innovations at internal “Innova” conferences. Brenntag’s employees are regularly kept informed of current issues and com­pany Brenntag also presents the global and regional “Brenntag matters through their line managers Awards” every year to employees who have achieved outand also through our internal print and standing successes in the areas of sales, safety or professional online media. Conversely, at all times performance. In addition, employees receive regional or local our employees are able to discuss issues recognition for their performance and input. In the Brenntag directly with their line managers or with EMEA region, locations which have made notable achievethe HR managers responsible. Dependments in the area of safety are presented with the “Safety First ing on the applicable laws in individual Award” every year. Our US subsidiary Coastal Chemical Comcountries, employee representatives on pany recognizes model employees with the annual “Circle of selected co-determination bodies are Excellence Awards”, while Brenntag Philippines honours top also on hand as points of contact. performers in the area of sales with an award. The internal online portal “LINK” helps Brenntag carried out an employee survey on safety culture at and encourages Brenntag employees the company for the first time in 2015 in order to provide itself to exchange information, communicate with an overview of its employees’ needs in this area. At the and work together across locations. The same time, this further raised awareness among employees platform serves to interconnect our emof the importance of safety in the workplace. Based on the ployees within the company, facilitates findings, the company has since been developing suitable the transfer of knowledge and provides measures in order to further increase occupational safety. an opportunity to share information, experiences and best-practice methods across different areas. EXEMPLARY: Every year, the Board of Management recognizes the outstanding performance of employees with the global “Brenntag Awards”, commending ­ them as role models for the company. BRENNTAG AG SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 2016 EMPLOYEES﻿ 39 In March 2016, Brenntag Asia Pacific DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITIES launched the monthly BEEPS (Brenntag Brenntag employs people from over 90 different countries. Employee Engagement Pulse Survey) Our employee structure is characterized by a good balance throughout the region. With just a few between women and men and a wide age range. The result of For information on the approach taken clicks, employees can assess their curthis is a cultural and social diversity which we use construct­ by B ­ renntag AG and rent engagement level online and give ively. The multifaceted nature of our employees’ skills and ­Brenntag GmbH to the statutorily required reasons for their present situation. This experience is a cornerstone of our success. specification of TARGETS enables Brenntag to promptly identify FOR THE PERCENTAGE OF ­WOMEN on the developments and adopt countermeasGuaranteeing equal opportunities is a matter of course for Super­visory Board, ures in time. BEEPS has since developed Brenntag, as is counteracting and eliminating any form of disManagement Board/ Management and the into an important means of expressing crimination and harassment. The recruitment, remuneration ­first two management opinions for employees in the Asia and development of employees solely reflect their qualificalevels, see page 34 of Brenntag’s 2016 Annual ­Pacific region. tions and abilities in relation to their respective duties. For Report. Brenntag, it is a matter of course and of utmost importance HEALTH AND WORK-LIFE BALANCE that discrimination does not occur against employees, busiAs part of Brenntag’s identity as an atness partners or third parties on the grounds of their ethnic tractive and responsible employer, we origin, gender, marital status, age, religion or beliefs, skin promote our employees’ health and colour, disability or sexual orientation. This is stipulated in their work-life balance. We have measour Code of Business Conduct and Ethics. Violations of this ures in place in all regions which are Code are investigated by our compliance organization with See COMPLIANCE INCIDENTS on page 11. aligned with the various local social the necessary rigour and, if a violation is identified, corres­ systems and often go above and beyond ponding action is taken. national practices and statutory requirements. In countries with inadequate soREMUNERATION AND PENSION SCHEMES cial security arrangements, for example, Brenntag’s remuneration policy is defined by factors such supplementary private health and life as attractiveness, fairness and competitiveness. Employees’ insurance is offered. In many countries, qualifications, experience and level of responsibility are parBrenntag also covers part of the cost amount criteria. Various pension plans are in place for emof preventative measures and medical ployees of the Brenntag Group. The pension commitments exam­inations and pays for vacci­nations vary depending on the legal, tax and economic circumstances for its employees and their families, for in the respective countries. In addition to employer-financed example. Some Brenntag companies company pension schemes, Brenntag also supports private also promote the physical health of pension schemes through various offers and pension plans. their employees by contributing to their For example, the deferred compensation model enables emgym memberships. Group partici­pation ployees to forgo receiving certain pay components in favour in corporate runs or other sporting comof an employee-financed company pension commitment. petitions is also very popular. Mental health is a priority too: all m ­ ana­gers in A ­ ustralia received corresponding awareness training in 2015/2016, while a survey was conducted in Germany on the risk of psycho­logical stress. Many Brenntag companies promote efforts to reconcile work and family life by ­offering flexible working time models and holiday arrangements as well as other supportive services such as childcare or care for relatives. BRENNTAG AG SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 2016 40 EMPLOYEE STRUCTURE The number of employees indicated are shown on the basis of the Group’s headcounts as at the end of the year. EMPLOYEES BY REGION AND GENDER EMPLOYEES BY AREA OF WORK AND GENDER Dec. 31, 2016 Dec. 31, 2015 Dec. 31, 2016 Dec. 31, 2015 abs. in % abs. in % abs. in % abs. in % EMEA 6,888 45.7 6,681 45.4 Sales 5,748 38.1 5,531 37.6 Women 2,545 36.9 2,454 36.7 Women 2,798 48.7 2,707 48.9 Men 4,343 63.1 4,227 63.3 Men 2,950 51.3 2,824 51.1 North America 4,631 30.7 4,554 31.0 Distribution 2,152 14.3 2,111 14.4 Women 1,003 21.7 998 21.9 Women 208 9.7 228 10.8 Men 3,628 78.3 3,556 78.1 Men 1,944 90.3 1,883 89.2 Latin America 1,491 9.9 1,523 10.4 Warehouses 4,537 30.1 4,515 30.7 Women 542 36.4 570 37.4 Women 501 11.0 504 11.2 Men 949 63.6 953 62.6 Men 4,036 89.0 4,011 88.8 Asia Pacific 1,923 12.8 1,817 12.3 Administration 2,635 17.5 2,550 17.3 Women 904 47.0 851 46.8 Women 1,562 59.3 1,505 59.0 Men 1,019 53.0 966 53.2 Men 1,073 40.7 1,045 41.0 Other segments 139 0.9 132 0.9 Brenntag Group 15,072 100.0 14,707 100.0 Women 75 54.0 71 53.8 Men 64 46.0 61 46.2 Brenntag Group 15,072 100.0 14,707 100.0 Women 5,069 33.6 4,944 33.6 Men 10,003 66.4 9,763 66.4 BRENNTAG AG SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 2016 EMPLOYEES﻿ 41 EMPLOYEES IN MANAGEMENT POSITIONS* BY GENDER NEW EMPLOYEES BY REGION Dec. 31, 2016 Dec. 31, 2015 Dec. 31, 2016 Dec. 31, 2015 abs. in % abs. in % abs. in % abs. in % Women 67 16.9 69 19.1 EMEA 787 34.6 740 28.1 Men 330 83.1 292 80.9 North America 806 35.5 1,041 39.6 Brenntag Group 397 100.0 361 100.0 Latin America 242 10.6 363 13.8 Asia Pacific 422 18.6 471 17.9 * Comprises the global executive management and local management groups. Other segments 16 0.7 17 0.6 Brenntag Group 2,273 100.0 2,632 100.0 EMPLOYEES BY TYPE OF EMPLOYMENT AND GENDER* Dec. 31, 2016 Dec. 31, 2015 EMPLOYEE TURNOVER* BY REGION abs. in % abs. in % Dec. 31, 2016 Dec. 31, 2015 Full-time 14,477 96.1 14,120 96.0 abs. in % abs. in % Women 4,626 32.0 Men 9,851 68.0 EMEA 268 3.7 279 3.9 Part-time 498 3.3 478 3.3 North America 341 6.7 309 6.6 Women 406 81.5 Latin America 117 6.5 124 7.1 Men 92 18.5 Asia Pacific 255 11.2 199 10.1 Apprentices 97 0.6 109 0.7 Other segments 3 2.0 8 5.6 Women 37 38.1 Brenntag Group 984 5.9 919 5.8 Men 60 61.9 * Termination by employees on the basis of Schlüter formula. Brenntag Group 15,072 100.0 14,707 100.0 * In 2015, the number of employees by type of employment was not yet broken down by gender. EMPLOYEES BY AGE* Dec. 31, 2016 Dec. 31, 2015 EMPLOYEES BY TYPE OF CONTRACT* AND GENDER abs. in % abs. in % < 20 36 0.4 47 0.5 Dec. 31, 2016 Dec. 31, 2015* 20 – 29 1,496 14.3 1,490 14.6 abs. in % abs. in % 30 – 39 3,183 30.5 3,085 30.4 Permanent contracts 13,946 92.5 40 – 49 3,027 29.0 2,974 29.3 Women 4,641 33.3 50 – 59 2,186 20.9 2,071 20.4 Men 9,305 66.7 > 59 513 4.9 486 4.8 Fixed-term contracts 1,029 6.9 Brenntag Group* 10,441 100.0 10,153 100.0 Women 391 38.0 * Excluding employees in the North America region; due to the legal situation in Men 638 62.0 North America, the data in the region are not recorded in full for all employees and therefore cannot be evaluated on a valid basis. Apprentices 97 0.6 Women 37 38.1 Men 60 61.9 AVERAGE AGE AND AVERAGE LENGTH OF SERVICE BY REGION* Brenntag Group 15,072 100.0 14,707 100.0 Dec. 31, 2016 Dec. 31, 2015 Dec. 31, 2016 Dec. 31, 2015 * In 2015, the number of employees by type of contract was not yet recorded. Ø Age Ø Length of service in years in years NEW EMPLOYEES BY TYPE OF ENTRY EMEA 43 43 11 11 Latin America 39 39 7 7 Dec. 31, 2016 Dec. 31, 2015 Asia Pacific 38 38 6 6 abs. in % abs. in % Other segments 45 45 10 11 New hires 1,811 79.7 1,693 64.3 Brenntag Group* 42 42 10 9 Company acquisitions 462 20.3 939 35.7 * Excluding employees in the North America region; due to the legal situation in Brenntag Group 2,273 100.0 2,632 100.0 North America, the data in the region are not recorded in full for all employees and therefore cannot be evaluated on a valid basis. BRENNTAG AG SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 2016 42 “IT’S LIKE PUTTING GLOBAL MANAGEMENT TALENTS FROM BRENNTAG IN ONE CLASSROOM” I’m WEISEONG FONG DIRECTOR – VENTURES & INTEGRATIONS, ASIA PACIFIC, BRENNTAG PTE LTD When it comes to the topic of integraTAT Group, a Singapore-based distributor for industrial tion, I have the experience – not only ­chemicals with subsidiaries in Singapore, South Korea, Vietbecause of my past professional work nam, Hong Kong and Indonesia. with different organizations and my current role as a member in the BusiIt is part of my job to contain and align the acquired entity ness Develop­ment team via Merger & with Brenntag’s environment, culture, values, practices, proAcquisition (M&A) for Brenntag’s Asia cesses and policies. It was a big challenge to manage to get Pacific region but also because I joined everyone at the TAT Group to understand, adopt and deliver Brenntag myself through an acquisition. all the requirements in terms of business, operations, reportAt the end of 2015, Brenntag acquired ing, risk management, etc. based on the standard operating procedures, policy, and guidelines of Brenntag right after the completion of the acquisition. I’m proud of what we have BRENNTAG AG SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 2016 EMPLOYEES﻿ 43 achieved so far, which is the successful people in decision-making processes, I see the ­advantages vertical integration of TAT Group withthis structure provides: we communicate more readily in a year, and now we are going for across the boundaries and this will help to create a good horizontal integration. I see this as an and c­ ooperative work environment; business information opportunity to grow and bring our busisilos are broken and we are able to respond more flexibly; ness to the next level under the leaderthere’s the chance to develop broader people capabilities and ship of Brenntag. the quality of the decisions made is higher as it comes from broader views, insights and perspectives. Integration of people is essential Integrating a company is not only about BOSS helps me to grow as an individual aligning strategies, processes and strucMy personal integration and development within Brenntag tures. It’s also essential to integrate was mainly supported by joining BOSS, Brenntag’s global expeople into the new corpo­rate culture ecutive management programme. I was really surprised when properly and make them feel part of I was informed of my nomination for the class 2016/2017. the family. At Brenntag Asia Pacific this I am excited and grateful for this professional development happens via structured onboarding proand learning opportunity. As someone who is relatively new grammes where they have the chance to to Brenntag, I see my nomination as a testament to Brenntag’s meet with different functional heads to emphasis on full integration, not just the business aspect, but under­stand Brenntag, their respective also on people investment. functions and team members as well as how they connect internally and externally. “It’s also essential to integrate The main change for me after joining people into the new corporate Brenntag came with the matrix organizational structure Brenntag uses, in culture properly and make them feel which people are pooled with regard part of the family.” to their skills and capabilities. This structure was new to me and though it means that I have to include more 44 BOSS is not just about studies, it is about learning new personal and business skills and growing as individuals through structured input by the professors, inter­ action and exchange of ideas as well as knowledge from different peers and networking across the Brenntag world so that I can further enhance my effective­ ness and productivity in my work. In order to maximize the learning experi­ ence from the BOSS program – knowing people tend to focus on what they ­already know and do well, and all partici­ pants in the programme are holding a senior executive position in Brenntag with great achievement and accomplishment – before going for the programme, I encouraged myself to unlearn what I have learnt and am good at so that I have an open mind with topics, discussions and situations that I have never experienced or am even less comfortable with. This not only maximizes my learning but Moreover, the diversity of people involved truly makes this proalso puts my perspectives and skills to gramme so unique. We have 13 nationalities from 24 Brenntag the test during the programme. offices around the globe in the class bringing in all their various backgrounds, work experiences and work functions. With such diversity, BOSS provides an unsurpassed platform for peer-topeer learning, sharing of experiences and in-depth discussions of the most pressing business issues. It’s like putting global management talents from Brenntag in one classroom. I’m really proud and happy to be part of this group. “The diversity of people involved truly makes the BOSS programme so unique. We have 13 nationalities from 24 Brenntag offices around the globe in the class.” BRENNTAG AG SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 2016 ﻿C OMMUNITY 45 COMMUNITY LIVING UP TO OUR RESPONSIBILITY At its more than 550 sites in 74 countries worldwide, practical experience and start a career in Brenntag is present as an employer, a business partner and our industry. In Germany, for example, a neighbour in local communities in many different countries Brenntag GmbH presents the “Brenntag and cities. We see ourselves as part of these communities, Award”, which includes prize money, as a “corporate citizen”, and we maintain a lively dialogue twice a year to the top graduate of the with them and aim to contribute to a positive environment. “Business Chemistry” course at Heinrich Heine University in Düsseldorf. Brenntag’s social commitment is driven primarily by our employees. They collect money and donations in kind and invest LOCAL COMMITMENT their expertise, their time and their manpower in support of Brenntag aims to provide assistance charitable causes. In many cases, Brenntag supports their exactly where it is needed. Because contribution either financially and organizationally or else local needs vary from country to counby releasing them from their work duties. try due to national, cultural and structural differences, the Brenntag sites PROMOTION OF EDUCATION decide autonomously where and to The promotion of education is a focus of Brenntag’s activities in what extent they get involved in soall of its regions. A large number of our sites have been coopercial initiatives. The company pursues ating with schools, universities and institutions for many years so many different activities that only now with the common aim of encouraging young people’s a few examples are provided here: interest in chemistry and our industry, sensitizing them regarding the handling of chemicals and supporting their education. For many years now, Brenntag North America has sponsored PRACTICAL EXAMPLES the national “You Be The Chemist Challenge”® school competition – involving great personal commitment from many of our In Latin America, many Brenntag sites employees – which was initiated by the Chemical Educational regularly support the communities Foundation. It encourages 5th – 8th grade pupils to take an inin their immediate vicinity: In Costa terest in chemistry and its applications in everyday life. This is Rica, Brenntag donated and installed a also the aim of the British “Chemistry with Cabbage” initiative, ­rainwater collector to a school, while which is financially supported by our subsidiary Multisol and in Guatemala, water purifiers were pro­ which prompts young people to conduct fun experiments at vided to families in need – the money schools, universities and museums. At a primary school near for these was raised from the recycling the Guadalajara site, employees of Brenntag Mexico explain of materials at the site. In the Domi­nican to pupils how to handle everyday chemical products properly. Republic, Brenntag Caribe sponsors a In Bangladesh, Brenntag has set up a fund that supports the small park in front of the Herrera site, education of the children of our operators and drivers. which is maintained together with the local community and used for communal We provide information on training and career opportunities and joint activities. in our company at events worldwide. Through open days and internships as well as trainee programmes and scholarships, we give pupils and students in countries such as Thailand, Malaysia, Romania and Poland the opportunity to develop an understanding of the work of a chemical distributor, to acquire BRENNTAG AG SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 2016 46 In Germany, Brenntag GmbH provides financial support to the not-for-profit­ ­association “Förderturm – Ideen für ­Essener Kinder e. V.”, which assists and supports children and young people from disadvantaged backgrounds in ­various projects. In the year under review, Brenntag UK & Ireland successfully continued “Brenntag Giving”, a programme which was launched in 2015 and is developed and managed entirely by its employees. As part of this award-winning programme, every month Brenntag provides a fixed amount to a site whose employees demonstrate a particularly strong level of social commitment. This site is then free to decide which good cause or registered charity will benefit from this additional financial contribution. A close dialogue with local ­emergency forces and mutual aid agreements are also typical of many Brenntag sites around the world. At the Deerlijk site in Belgium, for example, a theoretical tabletop safety exercise involving various local emergency units and Brenntag employees was conducted in the year under review to test coordination and the processes in place on all sides in the event of an emergency. In North America and Latin America, for instance, we provide local fire brigades as well as police and emergency services with financial support and equipment and make available to them our expertise and our sites for seminars and joint rescue exercises. At Brenntag’s Esteio site in Brazil, for example, exercises and seminars like these take place every quarter. REPORT PROFILE﻿ 47 REPORT PROFILE ABOUT THIS REPORT Brenntag’s Sustainability Report for the Financial Year 2016 is The illustration on page 48 shows its fourth sustainability report. Brenntag reports on its susthe boundaries of the key topics. The tainability activities every year. Its next report will therefore ­relevant GRI standards covered by each be published in 2018. ­topic are also indicated. For key topics that are not ­covered by the GRI guideThis report complies with international standards for sustain­ lines, we have ­referred ­directly to the ability reporting – the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) and corres­ponding ­management ­approaches the principles of the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC). in the ­report and, if n ­ ecessary, to our website as an a ­ dditional source of // Brenntag’s  Sustainability Report for the Financial Year ­information. We have combined the 2016 complies with the GRI’s Sustainable Reporting management ­approaches for the GRI-­ Standards (SRS) Core option. You will find the GRI Conrelevant ­standards and presented them tent Index from page 49. for the areas of economical, environ// This Sustainability Report for the Financial Year 2016 also mental and social topics. There were serves as an annual progress report (Communication on no changes to the key topics and the Progress – COP) for the UNGC, which Brenntag joined ­boundaries ­compared to the previous in October 2014. This report has therefore also been year. published on the organization’s website. www.unglobalcompact.org The contents and data provided in In order to satisfy the informational needs of rating agencies this report have been determined by and additional stakeholders, our reporting exceeds the scope way of internal processes. They derive of these requirements. from Brenntag’s existing management ­systems and from official company docuAs a rule, this sustainability report covers all Group companies ments and have been obtained from the and business units in which Brenntag has a share­holding of operational units of Brenntag’s regions over 50%. You will find a list of Brenntag’s key share­holdings as well as the responsible corporate on pages 200 ff. of Brenntag’s 2016 Annual Report. Any ­departments. The contents of this report ­deviations from these parameters are indicated in the relehave been reviewed by employees with vant section of the report. the relevant specialist expertise. The reporting period for this sustainability report covers The data published in this report has the 2016 financial year (Jan. 1, 2016 to Dec. 31, 2016) of the been compiled and processed with the Brenntag Group and follows on from the 2016 ­Sustainability greatest care. However, we are unable Report, which was published in July 2016. Any deviations to completely rule out the possibility of ­regarding the reporting periods for individual data and transcription errors. ­contents are noted separately. Our reporting focuses on key sustainability topics and activities at Brenntag. Our reporting also explains why these key topics are important to Brenntag. The key topics in this report are based on a materiality assessment, which included a survey of external stakeholders. We have prepared this report in accordance with the principles of balance, clarity, accuracy, timeliness, comparability and reliability. BRENNTAG AG SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 2016 48 RELEVANT TOPIC * ** RELATED GRI STANDARD OR MANAGEMENT APPROACH FOR ADDITIONAL RELEVANT TOPICS *RELEVANT WITHIN THE ORGANIZATION CORPORATE GOVERNANCE **RELEVANT OUTSIDE THE ORGANIZATION Compliance // GRI 307: Environmental Compliance 2016 // GRI 417: Marketing and Labeling 2016 // GRI 418: Customer Privacy 2016 // GRI 419: Socioeconomic Compliance 2016 Ethical/Moral Principles //  . 8–9 p // http://www.brenntag.com/corporate/en/about-brenntag/ strategy-and-organisation/vision-and-values/index.jsp Anti-corruption // GRI 205: Anti-corruption 2016 Code of Conduct // p. 8–9 Risk Management // Brenntag 2016 Annual Report, p. 94–96 Human Rights // GRI 406: Non-discrimination 2016 // GRI 407: Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining 2016 // GRI 408: Child Labour 2016 // GRI 409: Forced or Compulsory Labour 2016 // GRI 410: Securiy Practices 2016 // GRI 411: Rights of Indigenous Peoples 2016 // GRI 412: Human Rights Assessment 2016 // GRI 414: Supplier Social Assessment 2016 Anti-trust and Competition Laws // GRI 206: Anti-competitive Behaviour 2016 SAFETY Occupational Safety and Health Protection // GRI 403: Occupational Health And Safety 2016 Product Safety // GRI 416: Customer Health and Safety 2016 Product Quality // p. 8 Process Safety // p. 14 Safe Handling of Chemicals // GRI 416: Customer Health and Safety 2016 // GRI 306: Effluents and Waste 2016 Risk Prevention // p. 12–15 // Brenntag 2016 Annual Report, p. 94–96 ENVIRONMENT Protection (Soil, Air, Water) // GRI 303: Water 2016 // GRI 306: Effluents and Waste 2016 Water Management // GRI 303: Water 2016 Emissions Reductions/Climate Protection // GRI 305: Emissions 2016 Resource Efficiency // p. 23–29 Energy Efficiency // GRI 302: Energy 2016 Environmental Management // p. 12–14, 23 Recycling // p. 27 Waste Management // GRI 306: Effluents and Waste 2016 Transportation // p. 27 SUPPLY CHAIN Sustainable Procurement, Supplier Management, // GRI 204: Procurement Practices 2016 Supplier Qualification/Training, Sub-contractor // GRI 308: Supplier Environmental Assessment 2016 Management // GRI 414: Supplier Social Assessment 2016 Sustainable Customer Solutions (Products/Services) // GRI 417: Marketing and Labeling 2016 EMPLOYEES Personnel Development/Training/Talent Management // GRI 404: Training and Education 2016 Compensation and Benefits // GRI 405: Diversity and Equal Opportunity 2016 Working Conditions // GRI 402: Labour-Management Relations 2016 Work-Life Balance // p. 39 Diversity // GRI 405: Diversity and Equal Opportunity 2016 // GRI 406: Anti-discrimination 2016 Labour and Social Policy Rights // GRI 402: Labour-Management Relations 2016 // GRI 407: Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining 2016 Employee Satisfaction/ Engagement // (GRI 401: Employment 2016) Recruiting // (GRI 401: Employment 2016) PUBLIC RESPONSIBILITY Social/Charitable Commitments // GRI 413: Local Communities 2016 Local Community Engagement // GRI 413: Local Communities 2016 Participation in Industry Associations // p. 14–15, 33–34 // http://www.brenntag.com/media/documents/sustainability_reports/brenntag_ list_of_memberships_20150630.pdf BRENNTAG AG SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 2016 GRI CONTENT INDEX﻿ 49 GRI CONTENT INDEX GRI STANDARD AND DISCRIPTION REFERENCES COMMENTS AND ONLINE RESOURCES UNGC GRI 101: Foundation 2016 p. 5–7, 47–48 GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016 Organizational profile 102-01 Name of the organization Brenntag AG 102-02 Activities, brands, products and services p. 4–5, Annual Report p. 42 www.brenntag.com 102-03 Location of headquarters Mülheim an der Ruhr 102-04 Location of operations Inner fold-out page, Annual Report p. 200–209 102-05 Ownership and legal form Annual Report p. 10, 42–43 102-06 Markets served Annual Report p. 42–43 102-07 Scale of the organization Inner fold-out page, Annual Report fold out page, p. 114–115 102-08 Information on employees and other p. 40–41 6 workers 102-09 Supply chain p. 4–5, 33–35 102-10 Significant changes to the organization and p. 33–35, In the reporting period there were no significant changes to the supply chain. its supply chain Annual Report p. 42–43, 51 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach Annual Report p. 46, 94–96 102-12 External initiatives p. 9–10, 13–15 102-13 Membership of associations http://www.brenntag.com/media/documents/sustainability_reports/­ brenntag_list_of_memberships_20150630.pdf Strategy 102-14 Statement from the CEO p. 2–3 Ethics and integrity 102-16 Values, principles, standards and norms of p. 4–5, 8–10 http://www.brenntag.com/corporate/en/about-brenntag/strategy-and10 behavior organisation/vision-and-values/index.jsp Governance 102-18 Governance structure Annual Report p. 14–19, 20–22, 28–39 Stakeholder engagement 102-40 List of stakeholder groups p. 11 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements Due to its large number of international locations and the broad range of labour 3 regulations applicable to these locations, Brenntag does not record these data in a consolidated format. 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders p. 11 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement p. 11, 33–35, 45–46 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised p. 5–7, 11 Reporting practice 102-45 List of consolidated entities Annual Report p. 126–127, 200–209 102-46 Defining report content and topic boundaries p. 5–7, 47–48 102-47 List of material topics p. 6, 48 102-48 Restatements of information p. 47, Annual Report p. 122–126 102-49 Changes in reporting p. 47, Annual Report p. 122–125, 127–128 102-50 Reporting period p. 47 102-51 Date of most recent report 2016 102-52 Reporting cycle Annually 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the Imprint report 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the Core GRI Standards 102-55 GRI content index p. 49–52 102-56 External assurance This report has not been subject to any external confirmation (audit). ECONOMIC 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its p. 48, Boundary Annual Report p. 44–46 103-2 Management Approach p. 4–7, Annual Report p. 44–46 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach p. 7, 10–11, Annual Report p. 54–61 Page references without any other details relate to this sustainability report. References to the annual report relate to the 2016 Annual Report. BRENNTAG AG SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 2016 50 GRI STANDARD AND DISCRIPTION REFERENCES COMMENTS AND ONLINE RESOURCES UNGC GRI 201: Economic Performance 2016 201-1 Direct economic value generated and Annual Report fold out distributed pages, p. 112, 150 201-3 Defined benefit plan obligations and other Annual Report p. 150, retirement plans 166–176 GRI 204: Procurement Practices 2016 204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers p. 33–35 Local and regional purchasing is only of minor significance for the business model of a chemical distributor. GRI 205: Anti-corruption 2016 205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to p. 9 Within the scope of internal audits, a total of 35 Brenntag companies were 10 corruption reviewed in relation to corruption risks, etc. in the reporting year. 205-2 Communication and training about p. 8–10 Brenntag aims to achieve a coverage of 100% in compliance training for relevant 10 ­anti-corruption policies and procedures employees by 2017. In the reporting year, 94% of Brenntag employees world­ wide had completed the training on Brenntag's Code of Conduct that also includes anti-corruption. 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and p. 9 There were no corruption incidents in the reporting period. 10 actions taken GRI 206: Anti-competitive behaviour 2016 206-1 Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, Annual Report p. 102–103 anti-trust,and monopoly practices ENVIRONMENTAL 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its p. 48 Boundary 103-2 Management Approach p. 4–7, 12–15, 23, 26–27 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach p. 7, 11, 12–14 GRI 302: Energy 2016 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization p. 23 7, 8 302-3 Energy intensity p. 23 8 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption p. 23–24 8, 9 GRI 303: Water 2016 303-1 Water withdrawal by source p. 24–25 Water consumption is not recorded and consolidated on a Group-wide basis 7, 8 at Brenntag. Consumption in the Latin America region is reported here as an example only. 303-2 Water sources significantly affected by Brenntag obtains around 90% of its water from the public water supply network. 8 withdrawal of water 303-3 Water recycled and reused p. 25–26 8 GRI 305: Emissions 2016 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions p. 23 Since the reporting system was only implemented at the end of 2015, we are 7, 8 reporting consolidated data for the Brenntag Group for the first time for 2016. Comparable figures are thus not yet available. Our target is to reduce the Scope 1 and 2 CO2 emissions (per warehouse tonne of goods sold) by 6% by 2020 compared to 2016. 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions p. 23 Since the reporting system was only implemented at the end of 2015, we are 7, 8 reporting consolidated data for the Brenntag Group for the first time for 2016. Comparable figures are thus not yet available. Our target is to reduce the Scope 1 and 2 CO2 emissions (per warehouse tonne of goods sold) by 6% by 2020 compared to 2016. 305-4 GHG emissions intensity p. 23 Since the reporting system was only implemented at the end of 2015, we are 8 reporting consolidated data for the Brenntag Group for the first time for 2016. Comparable figures are thus not yet available. Our target is to reduce the Scope 1 and 2 CO2 emissions (per warehouse tonne of goods sold) by 6% by 2020 compared to 2016. GRI 306: Effluents and Waste 2016 306-2 Waste p. 27 Waste volumes are not recorded and consolidated on a Group-wide basis at 8 Brenntag. 306-3 Significant spills p. 26 In the reporting period, one significant spill occurred through which fluid 8 ­chemicals were discharged into the environment. This was immediately rectified. GRI 307: Environmental Compliance 2016 307-1 Non-compliance with environmental laws The Brenntag Group paid fines of approx. EUR 129,000 in the reporting period 8 and regulations due to non-compliance with environmental regulations. GRI 308: Supplier Environmental Assessment 2016 308-1 New suppliers that were screened using p. 33–35 Brenntag aims to analyze 50% of its total chemical spend (in EUR) with sustain­ 8 environmental criteria ability assessments or audits by 2020. This entails a comprehensive review of ecological issues. We do not distinguish between new and existing suppliers in these assessments. Page references without any other details relate to this sustainability report. References to the annual report relate to the 2016 Annual Report. BRENNTAG AG SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 2016 GRI CONTENT INDEX﻿ 51 GRI STANDARD AND DISCRIPTION REFERENCES COMMENTS AND ONLINE RESOURCES UNGC SOCIAL 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its p. 48 Boundary 103-2 Management Approach p. 4–11, 12–13, 16–18, 36 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach p. 7, 12, 38–39 GRI 401: Employment 2016 401-1 Employee turnover p. 41 Brenntag only reports the level of employee fluctuation by region. A breakdown 6 by age is not possible, since age data for the North America region have not been fully recorded for all employees due to North American legislation. Valid evaluation of these data is therefore not possible. 401-2 Benefits provided to full-time employees p. 39 Due to our company’s decentralized and international structure, it is not possible 6 to provide a complete list of the benefits which our employees receive. For this reason, only a few examples are provided in this report. GRI 402: Labour/Management Relations 2016 402-1 Minimum notice periods regarding Brenntag informs its employees of impending operational changes at an early 3 ­operational changes stage and comprehensively, while complying with applicable national and ­international notification periods. GRI 403: Occupational Health and Safety 2016 403-2 Injuries, occupational diseases and p. 16–19 Brenntag reports the Group’s LTIR accident rate as well as accidents resulting in ­work-related fatalities death. Accidents at work and similar occurrences are recorded and evaluated centrally at Brenntag according to a standardized system. The precise causes of accidents and the nature of injuries are recorded and evaluated internally but are not reported in detail externally. However, the most common causes of injuries and their development are reported. GRI 404: Training and Education 2016 404-2 Programmes for upgrading employee skills p. 36–37, p. 42–44 and transition assistance programs GRI 405: Diversity and Equal Opportunity 2016 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and p. 40–41, Annual Report 6 ­employees p. 28–39 405-2 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of p. 39 6 women to men GRI 406: Non-discrimination 2016 406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective p. 10 Tried-and-tested processes are in place at Brenntag for the orderly acceptance 6 actions taken and processing of Group-wide internal and external complaints and reports. We record the precise reason for the complaint, verify reports and, in case of a violation of compliance rules and regulations, initiate appropriate measures. Brenntag reports on the total number of confirmed compliance incidents. More detailed information cannot be disclosed for confidentiality reasons. Accordingly, we do not explicitly report the number of complaints relating to discrimination. GRI 407: Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining 2016 407-1 Operations and suppliers in which the right p. 10–11, 33–35 Upon signing up to the UNGC, we carried out a global investigation within 3 to freedom of association and collective the Group in 2014. We did not identify any business units where freedom of bargaining may be at risk association is restricted. In 2015, within the framework of our TfS membership, we began to request that our suppliers undergo sustainability assessments which also include a review of protection of the right of association and the right to collective bargaining. Brenntag’s code of conduct as well as our supplier code of conduct also require the protection of human rights, equal treatment and fair working conditions. GRI 407: Child labour 2016 408-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk p. 10–11, 33–35 Upon signing up to the UNGC, we carried out a global investigation within the 5 for incidents of child labour Group in 2014. We did not identify any business units where there was a risk of child labour. In 2015, within the framework of our TfS membership, we began to request that our suppliers undergo sustainability assessments which also include a review of principles and measures implemented to prevent child labour. Brenntag’s code of conduct as well as our supplier code of conduct also require the protection of human rights, equal treatment and fair working conditions. GRI 409: Forced or Compulsory Labour 2016 409-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk p. 10–11, 33–35 Upon signing up to the UNGC, we carried out a global investigation within the 4 for incidents of forced or compulsory labour Group in 2014. We did not identify any business units where there was a risk of forced labour. In 2015, within the framework of our TfS membership, we began to request that our suppliers undergo sustainability assessments which also include a review of measures implemented to prevent forced labour. Brenntag’s code of conduct as well as our supplier code of conduct also require the protection of human rights, equal treatment and fair working conditions. GRI 410: Security Practices 2016 410-1 Security personnel trained in human rights Brenntag will review the relevance of this aspect. 1 policies or procedures Page references without any other details relate to this sustainability report. References to the annual report relate to the 2016 Annual Report. BRENNTAG AG SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 2016 52 GRI STANDARD AND DISCRIPTION REFERENCES COMMENTS AND ONLINE RESOURCES UNGC GRI 411: Rights of Indigenous Peoples 2016 411-1 Incidents of violations involving rights of We have not received any reports of incidents for the reporting period. 1 indigenous peoples GRI 412: Human Rights Assessment 2016 412-1 Operations subject to human rights reviews p. 10–11 In signing up to the UNGC, Brenntag has undertaken to protect human rights. 1 or impact assessments Our code of conduct requires the protection of human rights. We are unaware of any business units at Brenntag where human rights are systematically jeopardized. In the reporting period, Brenntag did not learn of any violation of human rights within the Group. 412-3 Investment agreements that include For every company acquisition, aspects such as compliance and employment 2 human rights clauses agreements are examined in addition to commercial factors as part of due diligence. We disclose information about these transactions in the annual report (p. 51–52). GRI 413: Local Communities 2016 413-1 Operations with local community p. 45–46 Brenntag does not systematically assess the impact of its community and social 1 ­engagement, impact assessments and activities. ­development programmes GRI 414: Supplier Social Assessment 2016 414-1 New suppliers that were screened using p. 33–35 Brenntag aims to analyze 50% of its total chemical spend (in EUR) with sustain­ social criteria ability assessments or audits by 2020. This entails a comprehensive review of the impacts on society. We do not distinguish between new and existing suppliers in these assessments. Within the framework of its HSE guidelines, Brenntag Group has also determined processes and criteria for dealing with subcontractors, which carry out construction and maintenance work at Brenntag locations. They aim at ­preventing accidents and incidents, allowing safe execution of work and ­protecting the subcontractors’ health. GRI 416: Customer Health and Safety 2016 416-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning the There were no incidents during the reporting period. health and safety impacts of products and services GRI 417: Marketing and Labeling 2016 417-1 Requirements for product and service p. 14–15 ­information and labeling 417-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning There were no incidents during the reporting period. ­product and service information and labeling 417-3 Incidents of non-compliance concerning There were no incidents during the reporting period. marketing communications GRI 418: Customer Privacy 2016 418-1 Substantiated complaints concerning p. 8–11 Tried-and-tested processes are in place at Brenntag for the orderly acceptance and ­breaches of customer privacy processing of Group-wide internal and external complaints and reports. We record the precise reason for the complaint, verify reports and, in case of a violation of compliance rules and regulations, initiate appropriate measures. Brenntag reports on the total number of confirmed compliance incidents. More detailed information cannot be disclosed for confidentiality reasons. Accordingly, we do not explicitly report the number of complaints relating to customer privacy. GRI 419: Socioeconomic Compliance 2016 419-1 Non-compliance with laws and regulations Annual Report p. 102–103 No significant fines were incurred due to non-compliance with laws and in the social and economic area ­regulations in the reporting period. Page references without any other details relate to this sustainability report. References to the annual report relate to the 2016 Annual Report. BRENNTAG AG SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 2016 ﻿ 53 IMPRINT Issuer Concept and text Brenntag AG Verena Blaschke Stinnes-Platz 1 Corporate Communications, Brenntag AG 45472 Mülheim an der Ruhr, Germany Kirchhoff Consult AG, Hamburg, Germany T +49 (0) 208 7828 0 F +49 (0) 208 7828 698 Design and layout info@brenntag.de Kirchhoff Consult AG, Hamburg, Germany www.brenntag.com Print Contact WOESTE DRUCK + VERLAG GmbH & Co KG Brenntag AG Essen, Germany Corporate Development Dirk Eckert Productionsmanagement T +49 (0) 208 7828 7710 Labude. corporate products, Essen, Germany F +49 (0) 208 7828 7734 sustainability@brenntag.de Picture Credits Page 15: © ANIQ, Mexico; Page 19: © FEIQUE, Project Management/Editor-in-chief Spain; Page 37: © innogy SE; Page 46: © ChemDirk Eckert ical Educational Foundation; Page 46: © Jochen Corporate Development, Brenntag AG Müller/HHU; Page 46: © Chemcial Business Verena Blaschke Association, UK; other pictures: Brenntag Corporate Communications, Brenntag AG This Sustainability Report is a translation of the original German version. In case of any differences only the German version is binding. Print compensated Id-No. 1765891 www.bvdm-online.de BRENNTAG AG SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 2016 BRENNTAG AG Stinnes-Platz 1 45472 Mülheim an der Ruhr Germany www.brenntag.com
