| Communication on Progress 1 e-Zest Solutions Ltd. Communication on Progress From January 2016 to January 2017 Statement of continued support by the Chief Executive Officer Date: 1st January 2017 To our stakeholders: I am pleased to confirm that e-Zest Solutions Ltd. reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and AntiCorruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Sincerely yours, Devendra Deshmukh CEO and Founder Confidential Confidential 1 | Communication on Progress 1 About e-Zest e-Zest is a SEI-CMMI Level-3, ISO 27001:2013 and ISO 9001:2008 certified global IT services company providing software consulting and development services and enterprise business solutions utilizing cloud, mobility, business intelligence & analytics, UI/UX and collaboration as key competency pillars for our multi-faceted delivery approach. e-Zest has been consistently delivering cutting edge technology solutions to its broad range of clients from government and not-for-profit organizations across the globe to fortune 500 enterprises and global product companies. e-Zest has been associated with 15+ Government and Non-Profit agencies across the globe since its inception out of which 11 are United Nations Agencies. 30% of our total employee strength works for UN agencies. In the years of experience, e-Zest has served 100+ industry leader clients in four continents with currently 500+ software professionals on board. e-Zest Solutions offshore development office is a 100% export oriented unit (EOU) registered with the Software Technology Parks of India (STPI). Confidential Confidential 2 | Communication on Progress 2 Description of Actions 1.1 Human Rights Principles Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses Assessment, Policy and Goals e-Zest Solutions Ltd completely supports protection of Principles of Human Rights duly promoted by UN Global Compact. We are aware of our responsibility to society and are committed to support and follow the principles.  e-Zest has a strong policy in creating a stimulating work environment where employees are comfortable and content at work.  We are an equal opportunities employer and treat all employees fairly and equally. We do not discriminate on grounds of age, gender, colour, race, ethnicity, language, caste, creed, economic or social status or disability.  We abide by model standing orders prescribed by Government of India, which ensure, adherence to the basic Principles of Natural Justice during the process of handing Indiscipline.  We abide by all Laws of Land and we are not exposed to any legal action for nonconformity of any legal provisions.  Considering the nature of our business we believe the potential to become complicit in human rights abuses is limited.  We consider safety and well-being of our employees as one of our topmost priorities. We ensure that our facilities have requisite safety equipment and that sanitation is maintained all around.  e-Zest has always valued human rights and has always focused on developing a healthy work environment. Our foundations are strongly imbibed with the philosophy that a satisfied employee would deliver 110% while a dissatisfied employee will do no good to him/herself as well as the organization. To ensure the protection of the human rights of our resources e-Zest has set up a code of conduct for all the employees. Confidential Confidential 3 | Communication on Progress Implementation  Our team members are well informed and have the necessary tools to respond to workplace emergencies; first aid kits and fire extinguishers are readily available; and escape exits are clearly marked and free from obstruction.  The company conducts security risk assessments, and ensures that company security arrangements are in good shape.  e-Zest does not discriminate any candidate on the basis of Caste, Creed, Religion and Gender during process of selection or in career progression.  We believe on meritocracy and our decisions are based only on the principles of Merit.  We strongly support women empowerment and strictly follow the gender equality policy.  We have significant number of female employees in senior management leading different groups.  We offer flexible policies for women team members understanding their personal and professional responsibilities.  We have complied all guidelines and provision of Laws in respect of Prevention of Sexual Harassment Act of Government of India. We have installed strong mechanism to deal with any case of violation in this respect.  e-Zest is team members regularly participate in CSR activities and do their bit in helping the needy.  During last year we have carried out a few campaigns to promote CSR and our contribution as a corporation towards the society. One of these campaigns was the blood donation campaign. Confidential Confidential 4 | Communication on Progress Confidential Confidential 5 | Communication on Progress Measurement of outcomes  We have educated our Team Leaders about the Human Rights and we are all committed to ensure compliance of the same in word and spirit.  We have formed Internal Complaint Committee and we also have Whistle Blower Policy and all issues of any violation are handled efficiently and up to its logical conclusion.  As a result of our policies we did not have any legal cases, fines, rulings etc. or other relevant events to report  We did not have any safety related incidents We have so far not been exposed to any case involving violation of Human Rights. Confidential Confidential 6 | Communication on Progress 1.2 Labour Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Assessment, Policy and Goals e-Zest completely agrees and abides by the principles related to Labour under the UN global Compact. We uphold the rights of all the team members to freedom of association and collective bargaining and are free to participate and join trade unions if they wish to. Since we maintain excellent relations with our team members, they have not felt the need to join any such unions. We adhere to the provisions of Labour Laws, which prohibits engagement of Bonded Labour and Child Labour. Implementation  e-Zest employees enjoy flexible working hours and they are free to decide individually based on their workload.  Remuneration for individual position is sufficient and employees are given increments based on the yearly performance appraisal.  Salaries/incentives are paid regularly and on time  Subsidized lunch is provided to all employees  The deductions from the Salary are strictly as per the provisions of the Law and we do not deduct any unauthorized amounts from the salary of Team Members  We have Internal Complaint Committee to address Sexual Harassment related issues.  We conduct Small Group Discussions to sensitize our Team Members about provisions of Sexual Harassment Act.  Government of India has voluntarily accepted to abide by all Principles of Human Rights. It has formulated various Labour Laws to ensure protection of Human Rights. We abide by all provisions of various Labour Laws regularly and we have not violated any provisions of the same.  We have formal and informal interactions with team members from time to time to get their feedback and listen to their grievances if any. Confidential Confidential 7 | Communication on Progress  Star performers are awarded and recognized at the quarterly town hall meeting. This meeting also gives a platform to the team to voice their ideas and opinions on a public platform.  We, as responsible Corporate Citizen, abide by all the provisions of Labour Laws of Government of India and through various Internal Audits, ensure full compliance with the same. Measurement of Outcomes  We are abiding with all Labour Laws and we are never exposed for legal action for violation of any provisions of Labour Laws.  Women comprises 27% of the total talent at e-Zest today. Confidential Confidential 8 | Communication on Progress 1.3 Environmental Principles Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Assessment, policy and goals Environmental degradation is one of the major concerns for government, corporates and the people in general today. The rising, alarming deforestation has already begun to show its various ramifications in an adverse manner. e-Zest realizes the environmental challenges the world is facing today and is dedicatedly working towards saving the environment and keeping it green. In all our activities the focus is on keeping the carbon footprint to the lowest. We also understand the importance of saving energy and which has been in the veins of our organization. Implementation  We have limited our use of printer to save paper and have already implemented digital office initiative within the organization as well as our associates.  We avoid printing of hard copies/e-mails unless absolutely necessary and if a print is to be taken both sides of paper are used.  Waste is properly recycled and disposed off  For food, we have an in-house catering supplier which offers natural food and beverage products.  Our team is highly active in the environmental activities and often participates in tree plantation drives.  We have organized 3 tree plantation drives to support our environment and keep motivating our employees for their inclination towards green environment.  Team Members are encouraged to car-pool and use Public Transport for commutation.  Lights and other electrical appliances are switched off when not in use. Measurement of outcomes  The nature of eZest’s business is IT and is office based. Our operations do not have a high environmental impact. Our green initiatives are showing good results, one example being the reduction in consumption of electricity. Confidential Confidential 9 | Communication on Progress  More and more employees are getting involved in the plantation drives.  Collaborative efforts of the organization and the employees to contribute towards social cause enabled us to bring smiles on various faces by meeting out their little needs adding the initiatives to our CSR portfolio. Confidential Confidential 10 | Communication on Progress 1.4 Anti-Corruption Principles Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Assessment, policy and goals  e-Zest Solutions is compliant with the provisions of the Government of India to prevent Bribery and Corruption.  Neither do we participate nor do we support any unethical practices like Corruption or Bribery.  e-Zest is extremely focused on keeping malpractices away within as well as outside the organization.  We have never been indulged in any corrupt practices and have a policy to report any such incidence to the management immediately. Implementation Here at e-Zest have implemented the Whistle Blower Policy which encourages Team Members to share their information about any unethical work practices like Corruption and Bribery. The identities of the whistle-blower are kept completely confidential. All matters received through Whistle Blower Policy are handled confidentially and efficiently till the logical conclusion. Measurement of outcomes At e-Zest, till date, we have not had a single incident of corruption or bribery. This shows our strict adherence to ethical practices and efficiency of control mechanisms in place. Confidential Confidential 11
