United Nations Global Compact: Communication on Progress (COP) Statement of continuous support: Polaris International is pleased to confirm and reiterate its support of all United Nations Global Compact principles in the areas of Human Rights, Labor, Environment and antiCorruption. Polaris International with its policies and strategies, is promoting industrial development and economic performance while adopting the highest standards of environmental protection and improving the quality of broad Egyptian industrial community through dedicated development initiatives. *Polaris International is aware of the importance of creating an environmentally developed industrial area to assist in the global battle against climate change SDG 13. In this spirit, Polaris International environmental protection is main key of its corporate pillars is using advanced Solar system to reduce carbon print . * In year 2016 , Polaris International has constantly exhorted extra implementations and investments for irrigation system in the park for water consumptions SDG 12 . * A quality and facility personnel is responsible to monitor environmental facilities and assure its accurate operation (Water measuring – electrical consumptions – maintenance ….) . * Still “WEF “ Polaris International SR arm is promoting UNGC principles throughout its activities : Polaris has supported WEF in its initiative for orphans training and employment by promoting the initiative via its investors to provide orphans descent jobs for sustainable life taking into consideration SDG.3, 4,5,10 –WEF Engaged more than 10 new members to be participants . While operating and dealing with stakeholders WEF is promoting UNGC principles . WEF has submitted its COE mentioning its continuous support for UNGC . * Polaris is still supporting Gender equality, promoting SDG 5 . * Talent Development department is still creating advance systems to handle all aspects related employees taking into considerations the main 2 principles human rights and labor practice (complaints – fair evaluation – working conditions – training and development ) * For third year the employee evaluation system has been implemented that works in depth with transparency taking into consideration new monitoring aspects that commit to UNGC principles and moreover with motivation system to protect the labor rights. *Polaris International is providing to its employees and stakeholders a formal framework – guidelines, actions to be taken , monitoring its operations to ensure the business as a whole complies with all applicable antitrust laws. Finally as We are totally supporting the UNGC , Polaris has been nominated as steering committee member in UNGC Egypt . As being in UNGC Egypt network steering committee Polaris and WEF are always supporting UNGC Egypt network . Polaris International is supporting SDG goals through its activities. . Osman Arikan General Manager Polaris International Industrial Parks Polaris in Brief: Polaris Parks was officially launched in January 2008 by the Turkish president, Abdullah Gul, as the first initiative of its kind in Egypt, both as a private industrial park and as a large-scale joint collaboration between Turkey and Egypt, aiming to enhance the competitive edge of both countries in order to enable them to penetrate global markets. The both projects, Polaris International Industrial Parks and Polaris Al Zamil Industrial Park, are focusing on attracting industrial investors operating in light industries with clean processes, abiding by the environmental regulations in accordance with the governmental regulations. Accordingly, Polaris International Industrial Parks is the first environmentally friendly industrial park in the MENA region, setting great importance on the additional value added to investors through measures such as solar lighting system in the streets to reduce overhead costs and carbon footprint, and 80.000 square meters of planted green areas and regulatory By-Laws to support coherent existence between different industries. Polaris have attracted numerous local and international companies to invest such as Coca Cola, Schlumberger, P&G, Henkel and others. These industrial parks received international recognition including being awarded by Financial Times fDi and Euromoney magazine awards and has been used as a model to develop 10 more similar areas in Egypt. Whenever fully operational, these industrial parks are going to host more than 35.000 employees. it would not be wrong to claim that effect of introducing and realizing this vision improved life of hundreds of thousands of people. Polaris has been very active and outspoken on environmental sustainability. Aiming to break the negative perception on manufacturing he envisioned to enforce factories to limit their environmental impact if they would like to be within the industrial areas he developed. Accordingly he led preparation of an environmental impact reduction analysis with Cairo University to set certain standards of water, air and noise pollution for factories in each industry. Therefore any factory within Polaris Parks has to study to decrease its carbon footprint. Polaris management are true believer that development of new power production capacities should be focused on renewable energy resources. For the last 10 years, he has encouraged the industry on this sense. He created solar energy systems to be used within industrial parks which had been the first example in Egypt at its time. We are continuing on this quest he has been working and assisting on introduction of a new regulation that will increase private sectors role in renewable energy field in Egypt. Polaris was always practicing business taking into consideration all ungc principles aspects by nature , in 2014 he insisted to Join UNGC Egypt local network as he was convinced that these 10 principles are main core business values for sustainable development . Once joining UNGC we decided to invest time and efforts on promoting not only internally but externally in 3 years we succeeded to engage 10 entities to UNGC network Egypt . Polaris Parks works for the development of the country together with its industry in order to adapt and compete in the global economy by preparing the necessary environment for industry while aiding investors through difficulties of the start-up period and moving into operational phases. In order to do this Polaris Parks develops unutilized areas into industrial compounds with infrastructure networks, offering value-added facilities and providing professional management systems United Nations Global Compact: Communication on Progress (COP) : UNGC SPHERE OF SOURCES OF ACTIONS INDICATORS principles BUSINESS CORPORATE TAKEN CORRESPONDE INFLUENCE GOVERNANCE NCE Human Rights Principle1 Employees – Internal policies Training and G4HR2, HR4 Businesses Investorsand code of ethics awareness for should support contractorsstaff and and respect stakeholders on the protection human rights of aspects internationally proclaimed human rights Employees – Investorscontractors Principle 2: Employees – Internal policies HR policies and G4-HR,HR2-HR4 Human Rights Investorsand code of procedures Business should contractors ethics declared and make sure they developed . are not Talent complicit in development human rights department abuses. created Labor Principle 3: Employees – Internal policies Training to HR5, LA9,LA4, Labor Investorsand code of employees for LA5 Businesses contractorsethics labor aspects should uphold then Follow up the freedom of with monitoring association and and assessment the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Principle 4 Employees , Internal policies No HR2 –HR7 The elimination investorsand code of Case of of all forms of contractors ethics forced or forced and compulsory compulsory labor in Polaris labor Principle 5 EmployeesInternal policies No case of child HR6 The effective Investorsand code of labor abolition abolition of Contractors ethics in Polaris as it is child labour clearly declared from the beginning Principle 6 Employees – Internal policies Clearly declared LA2; LA14; EC5; The elimination Investors and code of with updated HR2; HR4; EC7 of contractors ethics agreement with discrimination recruitment in agencies respect of Updated employment interview and occupation system for employment Environment Internal policies and code of ethics Principle 7 Employees – Internal policies As we are first EC2, Businesses Investors – and code of environmental EN3,EN8,EN18, should support contractorsethics industrial park EN30 a Governmental an ongoing precautionary university environmental approach to (Cairo policies is environmental University applied challenge Water consumption Quality and monitoring system is applied Principle 8 EmployeesInternal policies Continuous EN6, EN7 , EN30 Undertake Investorsand code of approaches and initiatives to communities ethics advices supplied promote to develop more greater industrial areas . environmental responsibility Anti-corruption Principle 10 Employees – Internal policies Give training on SO2, Businesses investorsand code of ethical SO3,SO4,SO5 should work contractorsethics behaviors to its against communities stakeholders corruption in all and promoting its forms, for importance including of integrity on extortion and economic and bribery SR
