Delivering for the Long Haul FY2016 Sustainability Report Contents 1 Welcome to Aurizon 2 Sustainability highlights 3 Managing Director & CEO message 4 Sustainability at Aurizon 5 Aurizon’s sustainability priorities 8 Safety 12 Business Model 18 Future of Coal 24 Operational Efficiency 29 Customer Partnerships 32 Environmental Management 35 Community Engagement 41 Organisational Capability 44 Regulatory Environment 46 Governance at Aurizon 50 Employee datasheet 52 Glossary Welcome to Aurizon Aurizon is a top 50 ASX listed company, with over 6,400 employees, offering rail-based transport and infrastructure services across Australia. Our aspiration to deliver world-leading performance is underpinned by our three sustainability commitments: We’re committed to building a long-term sustainable business that delivers lasting value for our shareholders, customers, employees and communities. We aim to take the safest, most efficient and least resource-intensive approach to the services we provide. We apply a balanced view when assessing risk and making decisions, taking into account social, environmental and economic considerations. OUR SUSTAINABILITY SCORECARD Metric FY2011 FY2015 FY2016 FY2016 Aspiration Target year vs. FY2015 targets Total Recordable Injury Frequency Rate 22.3 2.4 4.2 76%  0 Ongoing (TRIFR) Notifiable environmental incidents 4# 2 1 50%  0 Ongoing Return on Invested Capital (ROIC) 4.4% 9.7% 8.6% 1.1ppt  10.5% (Avg) FY2016-2018 Operating Ratio (underlying) 88.0% 74.3% 74.8% 0.5ppt  70% FY2018 Workforce availability 95.8% 96.0% 96.1% 0.1ppt  >97% End of 2019 Percentage of female employees 11.7% 15.3% 17.4% 2.1ppt  30% End of 2019 Greenhouse gas emissions intensity 9.9 8.6 8.1 6%  7.2 FY2020 (kgCO2e/’000GTK) Note: Metrics without long-term targets have not been included above. #FY2011 incidents data not available (FY2014 data shown). Legend: ■ Improvement in metric performance ■ Decline in metric performance Sustainability highlights Safety Operational Organisational Efficiency Capability Zero LTIs (Lost Time Injuries) in FY2016. Locomotive productivity Improved female increased participation from 15.3% 11% to 17.4% at 30 June 2016 and Indigenous employees increased from and surpassed the Business Model 3.3% to 4.3%. US Class 1 railroad average Weighted average remaining coal contract length of for the first time. 17.4% Female participation 10.5 years. Customer Partnerships Regulatory Above and below rail Environment Future of Coal coal rate per tonne Australia became the world’s largest dropped by 7% in real terms since FY2012. 36% 7% coal exporter increase in volumes for in 2015. #1 the CQCN since FY2012, demonstrating the Coal rate per tonne benefits of an optimised supply chain. Community Governance Engagement We have voluntarily Doubled social adopted the Environmental return on investment in our Indigenous Tax Management pre-employment Transparency training program. Code 15% GHG emissions intensity and demonstrated our reduction target established. Please visit our online commitment to paying (from FY2015 baseline). Sustainability Highlights our fair share of tax. Managing Director & CEO message Welcome to Aurizon’s FY2016 Sustainability Report (Report). This Report discusses the resilience of Aurizon, its customers and its communities, as well as the demand for the commodities we haul. Lance Hockridge We see sustainability as key to our OUR COMMITMENT TO SAFETY business. It is central to finding new ways Managing Director & CEO of doing business, developing commercial Commitment to our values does not Aurizon solutions for customers, and creating waiver. How we go about our day-to-day value for shareholders. work and ensure the safety of our employees is as important as our OUR SUSTAINABILITY We continue to recognise the need to operational metrics and financial results. REPORTING JOURNEY improve productivity and to ensure the In the 2016 financial year Aurizon achieved competitiveness of Australian rail supply 12 months without a Lost Time Injury (LTI). Since we commenced sustainability chains. Our transformation also involves This compares with 92 LTIs in FY2010. reporting in November 2014, we have ongoing investment in organisational measured our performance through capability, the building of greater diversity While this is an unprecedented result, engagement with internal and external across our workforce, and the nurturing we readily acknowledge that safety stakeholders. In the last 12 months of innovation and technology-enabled performance requires relentless effort we’re delighted to have received improvements. and focus. For example, while our Total recognition from the Australian Recordable Injury Frequency Rate (TRIFR) Council for Superannuation Investors remains below the average of the North (ACSI) in their ‘Leading’ category, INVESTING IN THE FUTURE American Class 1s, it increased to 4.2 gained acceptance to the FTSE4Good in FY2016. sustainability index and improved Some recent examples of what we have done to invest in the long-term future our MSCI ESG rating from A to AA. for our business include: KEY CHAPTERS In January 2016 Aurizon also committed t he rail haulage contract extension to the UN Global Compact (UNGC). I would like to direct your attention to for BHP Billiton’s Mount Arthur mine We support the 10 principles of the three key chapters in this, our third to 2028, supporting a high-quality UNGC on human rights, labour, Sustainability Report. Firstly, the Business thermal coal mine by providing an environment, and anti-corruption; Model chapter demonstrates the resilience efficient, cost-effective and safe service this Report plays a key role in of Aurizon’s business and the ongoing demonstrating our Communication of investment in our new Enfield strength of our markets of operation. Progress towards the UNGC. I was also intermodal terminal is improving Secondly, the Operational Efficiency honoured this year to receive, on behalf our ability to service national chapter highlights many examples of how of Aurizon, the UN Women’s customers with longer trains, technology is transforming our business Empowerment Principles — CEO Award shorter transit times and an and will continue to drive our competitive for Cultural Change for Empowerment. environmentally sustainable position. Thirdly, in the Future of Coal container supply chain chapter, we provide new insights into how We continue to seek ways to improve our changes in steel flows affect demand t he reduction in fuel consumption Report and I encourage you to take the for metallurgical coal and review the across our train fleet through time to provide your comments and ideas potential implications of climate change technology and operational to us at sustainability@aurizon.com.au policy for Australia’s thermal coal exports. improvements, enabling our commitment to a GHG emissions intensity reduction target of 15% by 2020 (FY2015 baseline). FY2016 Sustainability Report  PAGE 3 Sustainability at Aurizon At Aurizon we formally integrate sustainability into our key decision making processes. As a consequence, we treat sustainability “I see a critical role for this as a lens through which to consider the long-term strategy of Sustainability Report, and our business. our sustainability strategy more broadly, in setting the The strategic relevance of sustainability The involvement of the Aurizon Board is tone for good governance to Aurizon is clear — it reinforces the also central to advancing our sustainability importance of our social licence to operate efforts. Each year we present our in our organisation. and helps us identify the longer-term risks material sustainability priorities, and opportunities that affect our business that were identified through stakeholder The process of developing and the global economy. This gives us a engagement, to our Board. We then a sustainability report broader perspective which allows us to identify how these topics are to be requires consideration of think creatively and challenge ourselves. covered in our Sustainability Report, As you’ll see, while we discuss our historical which is approved by our Board prior our business through the performance, we also focus on future risks to release. This enables the commitment eyes of our stakeholders, and opportunities that inform our business of the Aurizon Board to effective risk strategy. For us, sustainability is about management as a key element of and taking a view as to looking out and reflecting inwards. business success and sustainability. the longer-term forces shaping our industry. Such a process improves our capacity for objectivity We have received the following recognition for our sustainability reporting efforts: and the evidence base upon which we make our decisions. I’m proud of the achievements cited in this Report and motivated by the areas in which we can clearly do better. This is an important period for the resources sector and one in which the notion of sustainability, in all its dimensions, has never been more critical. I trust this Report demonstrates our commitment to sustainable business practices and working collaboratively with the various sectors and customers we serve.” Tim Poole Chairman PAGE 4 Delivering for the Long Haul Aurizon’s sustainability priorities Sustainability is at the heart of Aurizon’s mission. We are committed to building a business that delivers lasting value for our shareholders, customers, employees and the communities in which we operate. APPROACH TO REPORTING “ACSI congratulates Aurizon Holdings “I acknowledge the efforts of Aurizon to on achieving a Leading rating in this prepare the Report, and the Company’s This year we again sought feedback year’s ACSI research. A rating of Leading commitment to corporate sustainability from internal and external stakeholders demonstrates to investors that the reporting. I note Aurizon has engaged on the extent to which the FY2015 Company takes these issues seriously with various stakeholders in identifying Sustainability Report met their and gives investors valuable information Aurizon’s priority areas including safety, expectations. The responses reinforced to better inform their investment decision. environmental management and the importance of sustainability and We commend you and your Board’s efforts operational efficiency. In particular, transparency to Aurizon. to grow the company in the interests of all I commend Aurizon’s attention to shareholders.” organisational capability, with a focus on workforce diversity, especially by EXAMPLES OF FEEDBACK Louise Davidson, increasing female representation RECEIVED CEO, Australian Council for and the number of Aboriginal and Superannuation Investors Torres Strait Islander employees.” Included below is a sample of feedback (From an ACSI letter notifying Aurizon on Aurizon’s approach to sustainability of its Leading status.) Hon. Curtis Pitt, reporting and topics contained within Queensland Treasurer, our FY2015 Sustainability Report: Minister for Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Partnerships & Minister “The Aurizon team has been open for Sport and responsive to feedback. As a result, Aurizon reporting is hitting the right topics for investors — ‘Future of Coal’ scenarios and transparency on how this is analysed are key. Aurizon reporting is strategically focused and feels consistent across communications — whether financial or sustainability, it is talking about the same Customer business. The Report is a good platform Partnerships from which management can monitor and drive sustainability performance, as well as communicate about it.” Safety Community Alison George, Engagement Head of Governance, Regnan : area s Organisational Operational Capability Efficiency y rit io pr ia l ater M Business Future of Model Coal Regulatory Environment Environmental Management Figure 1: Our material sustainability priorities (see following page for further discussion). FY2016 Sustainability Report  PAGE 5 We have prepared this Report with reference to the Global Reporting Initiative’s (GRI) G4 ‘Core’ Guidelines, encompassing governance, economic, ACTIVE INTERESTS environmental and social performance. Our approach takes into consideration the GRI’s principles for informing Report DIRECTLY content: materiality, completeness, AFFECTED sustainability context and stakeholder inclusiveness. Customers Investors (Safety, Operational (Future of Coal, Efficiency, Future Operational Efficiency, of Coal) Business Model) HOW HAVE WE RESPONDED TO FEEDBACK? Industry Suppliers INTERNAL (Safety, Employees Communities Industry Groups Business Model, (Safety, Operational (Safety, Future of Analysts We have incorporated the feedback we (Operational Customer Coal, Environmental (Future of Coal, Partnerships) Efficiency, Customer Management) Efficiency, Safety, received on last year’s Report to make Partnerships) Operational Customer Efficiency, improvements wherever possible, Partnerships) Business Model) Joint Venture including: Unions Financiers Partners (Safety, Organisational (Future of Coal, Providing greater focus on our  Capability, Business Model, Business Model) Safety) Network business throughout the Report. Business Model — articulating how we  Governments Non-government integrate consideration of future risks and Regulators Organisations (Community Engagment, (Community Engagement , and opportunities in decision making. Safety, Environment Business Model, Organisational Management) Capability) Future of Coal — demonstrating how  we analyse future trends in coal markets, including impacts on our assets, our customers and Australia’s export competitiveness. Figure 2: Operational Efficiency — highlighting  Aurizon stakeholders with their top three important issues listed. how we use technology and continue our transformation journey. Customer Partnerships —  demonstrating how we collaborate with High customers and enhance resilience of our rail Network infrastructure. Safety This year we have also voluntarily adopted Environmental the Tax Transparency Code to demonstrate Management Operational our commitment to paying our fair share of Efficiency Future Importance to stakeholders tax and providing information on our tax of Coal affairs. Please refer to the Governance at Community Organisational Aurizon chapter for more information. Engagement Capability Business Customer Model MATERIALITY AND STAKEHOLDER Partnerships INCLUSIVENESS Regulatory Environment At the core of the GRI G4 guidelines is the principle of materiality. Our material priorities reflect those that have potential to impact Aurizon’s business and are important to our stakeholders. As in prior years, we conducted an annual materiality assessment by consulting Low internal and external stakeholders to Low Impact to business High prioritise and capture emerging issues. This involved interactive discussions with Figure 3: over 600 employees, issuing over 160 FY2016 material priorities. questionnaires to our stakeholder groups, and a number of follow up one-to-one meetings. The nine material priorities remained Although no material priorities have Figure 2 shows the top three issues the same as compared with FY2014 changed since FY2015, our stakeholders that were important to each of the and FY2015. Safety continues to rank have placed stronger importance on stakeholder groups. as most important, and continues to our business model. We attribute this We weighted the feedback from each remain at the core of Aurizon’s values. to the importance of our ability to stakeholder group equally and identified effectively plan and respond to nine areas in Figure 3 that are priorities challenging commodity market for Aurizon. and general freight conditions. PAGE 6 Delivering for the Long Haul IDENTIFICATION OF MATERIAL TOPICS 22% Future of Coal To understand which chapters are of most interest 15% Business Model to readers we tracked website downloads of our FY2015 Report to 30 June 2016. 13% Operational Efficiency Figure 4 indicates that online readers are most interested in the Future of Coal, Business Model 10% Customer Partnerships and Operational Efficiency chapters of the Report. We have therefore continued to focus on these 10% Organisational Capability chapters to ensure they meet stakeholder expectations. 9% Safety While the nine material priority areas have not 8% Environmental Management changed over the past three years, two themes have emerged that continue to remain relevant to our stakeholders: innovation through technology 8% Community Engagement and climate change. We have provided an introduction to these topics below and referred 5% Regulatory Environment to relevant examples within this Report. Figure 4: FY2015 Report downloads of individual chapters (by percentage). INNOVATION THROUGH Community Engagement — Aurizon’s climate change risks and TECHNOLOGY opacity monitoring used to detect opportunities are disclosed annually in our levels of coal dust in the Central submission to the CDP (previously Carbon Like most asset intensive businesses, Queensland Coal Network (CQCN). Disclosure Project) and are also reflected in access to technology is a key capability Organisational Capability — this Report. In particular, we draw attention that defines how Aurizon innovates using Aurizon’s Change practices to the following examples of how climate and operates. Implementing innovative to manage the impact of new change consideration is integrated into our technology solutions provides better technology on people. business in the following chapters: customer outcomes, enhanced Regulatory Environment — Business Model — understanding productivity and enables future growth. achieving regulatory policy policy and its potential to impact Technology complements our commitment that enables investment in our business long-term. to sustainability as it is applied through transformative technology Future of Coal — GHG emission long-term planning to deliver lasting value. to increase infrastructure capacity. reduction benefits from Australia’s This Report also demonstrates how high-quality thermal coal. We also recognise that the ability for technology is contributing to safety, technology to deliver lasting value relies Operational Efficiency — efficiency gains and supporting our ability on our organisational capability to plan, our progress in reducing to make informed decisions with social, implement, operate, support and maintain locomotive energy use environmental and economic new technology. As such, we provide and associated GHG emissions. considerations. The following examples further insight this year in our Operational Environmental Management — show how technology is used Efficiency chapter regarding our Enterprise the monitoring, reporting and to deliver sustainable value: Technology Roadmap and how technology regulation of our direct GHG Safety — ability to reduce or will drive us towards the digital railway of emissions. avoid safety risks with monitoring the future. Customer Partnerships — systems on vehicles and on preparing for, and adapting to, our track. CLIMATE CHANGE extreme weather events that Business Model — as a distinctive impact our Network and rail capability to underpin competitive Since our inaugural Report we have sought haulage business. advantage. to provide stakeholders with information Regulatory Environment — about our position on climate change and Future of Coal — potential of GHG emission reduction benefits how we are managing associated risks. more efficient coal-fired from moving freight from road These risks relate to future demand for generation technology in Asian to rail. the thermal coal we haul, regulation of countries to reduce greenhouse our direct GHG emissions and physical Of most interest to our stakeholders is our gas (GHG) emissions. impacts on our assets and people. perspective on climate change implications Operational Efficiency — for long-term seaborne thermal coal faster, more responsive planning We acknowledge the strong scientific demand. This part of our business has and scheduling of trains. consensus that climate change is experienced increased attention in Customer Partnerships — occurring and support the objective of the context of climate change policy, new customer portals delivering the Paris Climate Agreement to find a particularly following the Paris Climate real-time and tailored information pathway to limiting global warming to Agreement. In response to stakeholder online. two degrees. We understand this task feedback, we discuss climate change policy will not be easy, but what is certain is Environmental Management — implications for Australia’s thermal coal that effective policy will be needed to interactive calculator to estimate exports in the Future of Coal chapter of mitigate GHG emissions and adapt to GHG emissions savings from this Report. a changing climate. using rail as opposed to road. FY2016 Sustainability Report  PAGE 7 Safety At Aurizon the safety of ourselves and others is our number one priority. It is at the core of everything we do as we commit to ZEROHarm. SAFETY PRINCIPLES more challenging, especially during the The following sections highlight our safety current period of organisational change performance, community safety and the We have five Safety principles: and transformation. safety related recognitions we have received during FY2016. 1. Safety is the core Aurizon value. Regardless, we will maintain our focus on 2. All injuries can be prevented. safety as it increases morale, wellbeing and motivation for our employees. It also FY2016 SAFETY PERFORMANCE 3. Management is accountable improves productivity through higher worker for creating and maintaining EMPLOYEE SAFETY availability, less turnover and reduced costs a safe workplace. for workers compensation and litigation. For the first time in our history 4. We are all responsible for we recorded a LTI-free 12 months to preventing injuries. Aurizon renews its Safety Strategy annually November 2015. As at 30 June 2016, 5. Working safely is a condition to ensure we keep a forward-looking focus in we remained LTI free and have continued of employment. our drive towards ZEROHarm. The key safety this world-leading performance until the initiatives over the next five years include: time of this Report. Figure 5 illustrates our journey of employee safety improvement OUR SAFETY STRATEGY embedding a culture of “Safety from FY2011 to FY2016. by Choice” We have made significant progress in our sharing lessons learnt across regions As illustrated in Figure 6, while our Total journey to ZEROHarm since we started the empowering individuals to identify Recordable Injury Frequency Rate (TRIFR) safety cultural change in FY2009. At that and implement safety initiatives remained below the comparable Class 1 point in time Aurizon was recording 12 Lost average, our TRIFR did increase to 4.2 Time Injuries (LTIs) per month. In FY2016, adapting processes that eliminate or in FY2016. we recorded zero LTIs per month. As we reduce exposures to safety hazards continue our relentless pursuit of worldstreamlining and simplifying processes At Aurizon we constantly analyse our leading safety performance, we recognise to ensure consistency and reduce costs. safety performance data to identify that additional safety gains may become opportunities for continuous improvement. To that end, we monitor injuries by type 3.5 (see Figure 7), adapt processes, improve equipment and work environments, and communicate with employees about 3.0 relevant risks and how to eliminate them. We have examined injury data for FY2016 2.5 and found the highest numbers of TRIs were hand injuries (34%) caused by sharp objects. To improve the TRI 2.0 performance we have redesigned a broad range of tasks to eliminate knife-cutting, banned fixed-blade knives and introduced 1.5 concealed-blade or auto-retract blade knives. Similarly, safety interactions and 1.0 Toolbox Talks have been held to inform staff of preventative benefits. With the increased focus, we have seen an 0.5 encouraging trend of decreasing TRIs in the second half of FY2016. 0 0.0 FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 Figure 5: Historical Lost Time Injury Frequency Rates per million man-hours worked. PAGE 8 Delivering for the Long Haul OPERATIONAL SAFETY relevant standards and training. The ATSB During FY2016, is expected to publish its final report in A key measure of operational safety October 2016. The incident reinforces we achieved zero at Aurizon is derailments per Million Lost Time Injuries, the importance of investigating factors Train Kilometres (MTKm). In FY2016, attributed to derailment risk. recorded a 52% reduction we recorded 10 derailments (compared to 16 in FY2015), a 40% improvement which We continue to focus on progressing the in level crossing incidents set a new record low for Aurizon. use of predictive technology to detect and won the Regional and pre-emptively correct track and Despite rigorous safety measures, Asia Pacific Award for rollingstock issues that may cause safety in December 2015 a derailment resulted incidents. For example, in our Central Excellence in Safety in in a train roll-over at Julia Creek in Queensland. The derailment caused minor Queensland Coal Network (CQCN), the prestigious DuPont wayside Condition Monitoring technology injuries to three of our employees as well has been a factor that has contributed to Global Safety & as significant damage, cost, and loss of Sustainability Awards. an 86% reduction in the number of serious revenue. The Australian Transport Safety operational incidents such as train partings. Bureau (ATSB) released its preliminary Please refer to our Operational Efficiency investigation report on 21 April 2016, chapter for more information on indicating that the Aurizon train drivers Condition Monitoring. operated the train in full compliance with Total Recordable Injury body parts 25 (FY2016-47) (FY2015-30)* Head 4 Ear 0 20 Eye 0 Face 4 Neck 0 15 Shoulders and Back 1 arms 7 Trunk 0 10 Hands and fingers 16 5 Legs and Trauma 4 hips 11 0 FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 Feet and Aurizon TRIFR Class 1 TRIFR toes 0 Figure 6: Figure 7: Total Recordable Injury Frequency Rates per million man-hours worked (Aurizon vs. Class 1*). FY2016 Total Recordable Injuries. *C lass 1 TRIFR is calculated by averaging TRIFRs of BNSF, Canadian National, Canadian Pacific, * Note: the body part figures will not always add up CSX, Norfolk Southern & Union Pacific. to the ‘all injuries’ figure. This is because multiple body parts can be affected by the one injury event. FY2016 Sustainability Report  PAGE 9 1.8 EMPLOYEE HEALTH SPADS/MTKm Derailments/MTkm The health and wellbeing of our employees 1.5 is of paramount importance to Aurizon. Our Chief Medical Officer leads the Health & Wellbeing program. We recognise the risks related to a lack 1.2 of physical activity and sedentary behaviour in the workplace, especially as approximately one third of our 0.9 employees are over the age of 50. To mitigate these risks we created an 0.6 enterprise-wide Health & Wellbeing strategy in FY2016. It provides an integrated and results-oriented approach, 0.3 delivering tailored health solutions to improve employee and organisational health and wellbeing. The strategy 0.0 considers both employee physical and mental wellbeing, as well as key FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 determinants of health, including both Figure 8: personal and environmental contributors. Historical derailments and SPADs. This helps ensure that we develop healthier bodies, minds, and a culture that is supportive of these initiatives. Please see Table 1 for details. Signals Passed at Danger (SPADs) are a positive driver behaviour and identify predictive measure to improve rail safety. areas for improvement. Encouragingly, We look forward to reporting on A SPAD reflects an instance in which a train our managers and supervisors are these initiatives in the years to come. has entered a section of the track without proactively using IVMS to lead One measure of success will be workforce the correct authority, for example, passing conversations on safe driving awareness availability, which has increased from 95.8% a red signal. In FY2016 we recorded an and behaviours. In the long term, evidence in FY2011 to 96.1% in FY2016 (with a target increase on FY2015 SPADs per MTKm, from suggests that IVMS contributes significantly of more than 97% by the end of 2019). 0.71 to 0.90 (Figure 8). Our improvement to incident-free road safety practices. strategies going forward are to ensure train drivers follow the correct driving methodologies and introducing non-technical skills training to better equip drivers. Prevention Response Online health assessment, Active intervention solutions that provide support for DRIVE SAFE health check and coaching individuals with identified health risks or health conditions With many of our people on the roads Health capacity evaluations Aurizon tobacco cessation program each day, driving vehicles remains one tailored to role profiles of the key risks in keeping our employees safe. In October 2015 we commenced Mental health promotion Mental health crisis response training. Employee installation of In-Vehicle Monitoring Assistance Program, including confidential counselling System (IVMS) devices into our light for employees and their family members and heavy vehicles and prime movers, with completion expected in the first half of FY2017. The short-term objectives are Table 1: to monitor and report on driver Health & Wellbeing initiatives. performance so we can communicate PAGE 10 Delivering for the Long Haul COMMUNITY SAFETY 140 Aurizon’s CQCN incorporates 765 level crossings. We also operate on many 120 other rail networks across Australia, where some 20,000 level crossings1 100 have passenger and vehicle traffic passing over the rail track. 80 We continue to work proactively with local communities, the Bus Industry 52% Council, the Truck Association, Motoring 60 Associations, Police and Government on a range of preventative level crossing strategies. This includes upgrading level 40 crossing protection and closure of unnecessary crossings after consultation 20 and collaboration processes. In addition, to help tackle this serious 0 community safety issue, we produced FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 two educational online videos. Our first animated video, Stay off the Tracks, Figure 9: was hosted on Aurizon’s YouTube Number of recorded level crossing incidents on the CQCN. channel and shared by the Queensland Department of Transport and Main Roads and the Queensland Police, reaching more than 45,000 people on social media. RECOGNITION We then collaborated with the Newcastle Knights Rugby League team to record Our key safety milestones in a rail safety video to speak to school FY2016 include: children and communities about level crossing safety. achieving a Lost Time Injury Free financial year To further engage on this topic we winning the Regional Asia Pacific co-sponsored trackSAFE’s Australasian Award for Excellence in Safety in the Level Crossing Forum in Brisbane in DuPont Global Safety & Sustainability June 2016. This Forum brought together Awards rail companies, police, regulators, being a finalist for the Chartered and government representatives from Institute of Logistics and Transport Australia and overseas to identify Australia awards, which recognise prevention initiatives. organisations that have demonstrated As a result of these proactive campaigns, a practical and exceptional we recorded a 52% reduction in level commitment to excellence in safety. crossing incidents in FY2016. See Figure 9 for historical improvements. 1 Sourced from Australian Centre for Rail Innovation. acri.net.au/rail-level-crossing-near-miss-survey/ FY2016 Sustainability Report  PAGE 11 Business Model Aurizon is Australia’s largest rail freight company, utilising below “Since listing on the ASX in FY2011, we have hauled and above rail capabilities to 11% more tonnes, with 37% fewer locomotives and carry products for domestic 19% fewer wagons.” and global consumption. Managing Director & CEO Lance Hockridge WHAT WE DO Each year, Aurizon transports more than 250 million tonnes of bulk and agricultural REVENUE commodities, connecting miners, primary producers, and industry with international Our Network business provides a stable, defensive, regulated stream and domestic markets. We also provide of earnings (34% of Aurizon revenue). containerised transport solutions across an extensive national rail and road F  or our rail haulage business, 79% of our coal volumes and 100% of network. our iron ore volumes are under long-term ‘new form’ contracts providing a 60-70% fixed-revenue stream through take-or-pay arrangements. In addition, Aurizon co-ordinates operation of the Central Queensland Coal Network No material coal haulage contracts are due to expire until FY2022, (CQCN), an open access network servicing while the weighted average remaining contract length is 10.5 years multiple customers across interconnected for coal and 5.2 years for iron ore. corridors and ports. We are well positioned in all aspects of rail network design, COSTS construction, asset monitoring, maintenance and operation. We have been successful in becoming a more cost-competitive business with a stronger operational, commercial and customer focus. We’re the only vertically integrated, multi-user heavy haul rail company The bulk of the ongoing costs of our operations relate to labour (45%), in Australia. consumables (30%), track access (15%) and fuel (10%). Our Operating Ratio (i.e. 1-EBIT margin) reduced from 88% in FY2011 to 74.8% in FY2016. OUTLOOK ASSETS In FY2017 we are targeting: We have approximately 500 active locomotives and 13,000 active underlying Earnings Before wagons across 28 rail depots. Interest and Tax (EBIT) between $900 and $950 million We operate and manage the Central Queensland Coal Network, 2,670 kilometres of track with a Regulated Asset Base of $5.6 billion. revenue between $3.35 and $3.55 billion FUNDING AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENT above rail haulage of 255mt – 275mt  urizon Enterprise Value was $13.0 billion as at 30 June 2016, made up of A coal haulage of 200 – 212mt. $9.5 billion of equity value (market capitalisation) and $3.5 billion of debt value. Aurizon seeks to create sustainable value through disciplined capital allocation which generates returns above the cost of capital. PAGE 12 Delivering for the Long Haul OUR BUSINESS STRUCTURE — BELOW AND ABOVE RAIL Our operations fit broadly into two categories — below rail network infrastructure and above rail QCOAL — transport operations. An overview of our integrated set of capabilities is provided below: BYERWEN COAL PROJECT BELOW RAIL (NETWORK) The Byerwen Coal Project is located 150 kilometres west of Mackay, Queensland. Once operational, the Byerwen Mine will produce up to Operation and planning Maintenance and renewal Design and construction 10 million tonnes of metallurgical coal With an average of 70 rail Aurizon undertakes track Aurizon has demonstrated per year to be railed services on the CQCN each inspections, preventative experience and competency to Abbot Point Coal day, Aurizon performs all maintenance, asset renewals, across engineering, design, Terminal for export. aspects of network traffic emergency repair, response project management and control, capacity planning, and recovery. We also operate construction disciplines. Aurizon is designing the safety accreditation and day a fleet of specialised track In response to customer signalling systems and of operations planning in maintenance machines and requests, we have completed anticipates beginning the CQCN. Each year since employ a sophisticated system approximately $2.5 billion in construction of the track, IPO in 2010, we have set new for maintenance planning major capital works since telecommunications and records of coal volumes hauled and asset management. We IPO and added 70 million signalling infrastructure on the CQCN. In FY2016 provide these services within tonnes of network capacity. for the new mine in late the CQCN achieved another the CQCN and nationally for September 2016. record of 226 million tonnes. other network providers and can scale this capability to This is the second other opportunities. contract we have won from Qcoal after managing the civil ABOVE RAIL (RAIL HAULAGE) works contractor (Murphy Pipe and Civil) on-site. “This has been an outstanding team effort and a clear Operations Engineering and maintenance Other services demonstration of the Aurizon has extensive Aurizon manages the Aurizon also provides a wide results that can be experience in transporting majority of rollingstock range of rail-based services achieved through mining products, bulk and terminal equipment including terminal operation, the delivery of great commodities, industrial maintenance across the third-party provisioning and infrastructure solutions products and intermodal locomotive and wagon fleet. coordination of containerised for our customers in freight. We do this in large pick-up and delivery. the industry.” volumes, over long distances, in demanding environments Michael Carter and across complex supply A/EVP Operations chains. FY2016 Sustainability Report  PAGE 13 WHERE WE OPERATE Australia has some of the best coal and As shown below, Aurizon is a significant iron ore reserves globally, which support its contributor to Australian supply chains, The Australian rail industry operates position as the largest global exporter of particularly across the four markets of iron nationally across 33,000 kilometres both coal and iron ore. Considering these ore, coal, intermodal and diversified bulk of track using over 2,200 locomotives commodities account for 60%3 of dry freight. Approximately 68% of our total (majority of which are standard gauge). bulk commodities transported by sea, revenue relates to coal and is discussed in Each year the rail industry hauls over we believe Australia is the best country the Future of Coal chapter of this Report. one billion tonnes of bulk and in which to be a bulk rail operator. Figure 10 below shows the broad containerised freight2. geographic regions of each of our four markets, associated revenue contributions and example customers. QLD AND NSW COAL — 68% of Aurizon DIVERSIFIED BULK FREIGHT revenue (two thirds metallurgical coal) Customers include: Customers include: Anglo American, BHP Billiton, BMA, Alcoa, Cement Australia, Glencore, Glencore, Peabody, Whitehaven GrainCorp, South32, Wilmar Darwin Cairns Townsville Port Hedland Mount Isa Bowen Dampier Karratha Mackay Hughenden Rockhampton Alice Springs Gladstone Longreach Emerald Moura Charleville FREIGHT Roma Brisbane 21% of Geraldton Mullewa Thallon Aurizon Leonora Narrabri revenue Kalgoorlie Perth Kwinana Port Augusta Gulgong Newcastle Bunbury Esperance Sydney Adelaide Albany Melbourne WA IRON ORE INTERMODAL 9% of Aurizon revenue Customers include: Customers include: CEVA, Coles, K&S Freighters, Cliffs, Karara, Mount Gibson Iron Orica, Woolworths Other revenue from disposal of PP&E or provision of maintenance services to external customers not shown. Figure 10: Aurizon operations across four key markets. 2 Sourced from FY2016 Full-year results for Aurizon, Rio Tinto, BHP Billiton, FMG and Asciano. 3 Dry Bulk Magazine — Spring 2016 — Volume 1. PAGE 14 Delivering for the Long Haul OUR STRATEGY In FY2015 Aurizon developed the Blueprint strategy and engaged with employees and external stakeholders on how this framework will create value. The strategy will be delivered through the following areas: Aurizon is strengthening and growing our current business through a relentless focus on our customers. Aurizon has continued to work with customers in order to identify cost savings and productivity opportunities across the supply chain. Our investment in information and operations technology improves our customer offering, with greater transparency and consistency of information. Customer focus The new Enterprise Agreements, which were substantially implemented in September 2015, are a key enabler for productivity improvements and efficiencies — allowing us to consistently deliver what we promise for our customers. Over the next two to three years we expect stable volumes, which reinforces our commitment to transformation. Our multi-year transformation program involves identifying and implementing initiatives to create a highly focused, performance-driven culture which will reduce our cost base, drive productivity improvements and create shareholder value. We use world-leading Condition Monitoring technology to provide real-time Productivity improvement and predictive data, enabling our staff to focus on fixing rather than finding maintenance issues. We explore growth opportunities that are aligned to our Blueprint and leverage our capabilities. We develop innovative solutions to attract new customers in existing intermodal and bulk markets. We will continue to seek opportunities that utilise our capacity to support existing and emerging coal producers. Growth opportunities OUR ROADMAP FOR THE LONGThe inaugural version of the Technical The results indicated that upgrading TERM FUTURE OF THE NETWORK Strategy includes information regarding the infrastructure for heavier trains is the following opportunities: currently not viable, but a future tonnage The Aurizon Network Technical Strategy growth rate above 3% per annum could (Technical Strategy) will be published Network upgrades to facilitate alter this initial assessment. The evaluation annually and complements the Network heavier trains. also revealed that the next iteration of Development Plan, by defining those Improved IT systems for train the Technical Strategy should consider opportunities that can facilitate growth scheduling and management. infrastructure upgrades which facilitate at the lowest cost. heavier locomotives (with current Modelling tools to optimise timing wagons) and facilitate higher wagon of maintenance and renewals. The Technical Strategy also provides a overload limits. detailed means of articulating a future Expansion of wayside Condition vision for operating the Network centred Monitoring capability. on customer focus and productivity Purchase of mechanised improvement. track maintenance equipment. Network improvement opportunities are For example, above rail operators have considered using the following principles: expressed a need to understand what rollingstock could be utilised on the An integrated system approach is Network in the future. In our inaugural facilitated. Technical Strategy we evaluated the There is potential to reduce the total potential upgrade of infrastructure for cost of transport. heavier trains, including above and below Innovation is promoted. rail cost implications. This evaluation was conducted using two scenarios for Sustainability goals are achieved. tonnage growth in the CQCN, 1% and Renewals investment is leveraged. 3% per annum over 25 years. FY2016 Sustainability Report  PAGE 15 GLOBAL FACTORS INFLUENCING OUR FUTURE Over our 150-year history Aurizon has witnessed considerable change. It is in this context that we have every confidence in our continued resilience and, where necessary, ability to adapt to changing market conditions. Our views on several key drivers of uncertainty and opportunity relating to our business are as follows: U  rbanisation and development in Asia: Climate change: Discussed extensively Trade liberalisation: Australia is well Asia, including the Indian subthroughout this Report, the physical connected to the world economy continent, is currently undergoing a impacts and potential policy responses through a flow of people, goods, major urban transformation with an relating to climate change will continue services and capital. There are additional one billion people forecast to be a long-term strategic currently a record number of free to move to cities by 2050. We pay consideration for Aurizon and our trade agreements under negotiation, close attention to this trend given customers. In the short term we have or recently signed, providing significant urbanisation requires infrastructure set targets to reduce our direct carbon opportunities for Australian companies investment and drives associated emissions, however, our main focus is such as Aurizon and our customers. demand for steel. We see this as a to monitor emissions reduction We must also ensure that, at the same key driver for the future of seaborne commitments in key thermal coal import time, trade protectionism is not used metallurgical coal and iron ore demand, countries in Asia. Aurizon believes that if to protect unsustainable industries to given steel is predominantly produced emissions reduction mechanisms are the detriment of competitive global using these bulk commodities. implemented in these countries it could supplies. We see this as a key driver direct more finance towards highfor the future of Australian export efficiency coal-fired generation. commodity demand. For Aurizon, there is also a strong relationship across Asia between The importance of the factors increased adoption of high-efficiency described above are further discussed generation technology and coal quality, in our Future of Coal and Regulatory which could provide an advantage for Environment chapters. high-quality Australian coal. OUR SCENARIO PLANNING APPROACH To Aurizon, sustainability means We believe that Australia is well placed to relevant information is at hand to inform building a resilient business to manage make the most of the opportunities in our major investments in long-life assets. long-term trends. This requires foresight region. Aurizon in particular will play a key to monitor key factors with the potential role in this due to our central position in The diagram below illustrates the high to impact customers, communities and Australia’s globally competitive export level approach used. Ultimately this the commodities we haul. supply chains. approach provides consideration for our business model and forecasts. In this To ensure our continued success Our business strategy makes use of context we specifically note that on we regularly undertake scenario scenario development to inform business 15 August 2016, Aurizon announced planning focussed on assessing risks decisions. We monitor the external that a performance review is underway. and opportunities. A key component environment using signposts or lead The aim of the review is to determine of this assessment is consideration of indicators to ensure we are able to identify options to achieve appropriate riskfuture commodity demand and supply when to implement adaptive strategies. adjusted returns across our intermodal scenarios driven by economic indicators, As the market and government regulatory and diversified bulk freight businesses. emerging technologies and policy in environments are not static, this analysis domestic and international markets. is regularly updated to ensure the most 1 2 3 4 Define uncertainty Monitor uncertainty Develop scenarios Understand impacts Assess markets and Track forward Define our market outlook Inform business areas of uncertainty signposts and indicators planning decisions Demand Supply SCENARIO 1 Australia’s SCENARIO 2 competitiveness SCENARIO 3 Competitors External crosscheck Internal planning to consider Regular discussions held with key industry participants operational response under different scenarios to crosscheck major drivers of uncertainty. Figure 11: Key elements of Aurizon’s scenario planning approach. PAGE 16 Delivering for the Long Haul FY2016 Sustainability Report  PAGE 17 Future of Coal Our ongoing business success is linked to the future demand for the commodities we transport for our customers. Coal related revenues Following release of our FY2014 Report, Aurizon stakeholders called for a wider 27% 73% 49% 51% discussion on the differentiation of coal types. We undertook this through our FY2015 Report, which outlined that the vast majority of coal can be divided into two types: metallurgical and thermal. Below rail Metallurgical coal is used to produce Above rail steel while thermal coal is primarily used to produce electricity. Metallurgical coal is relatively scarce and Australia’s cost competitiveness and export infrastructure are key drivers that underpin its dominance in the seaborne market. Meanwhile, the future of thermal coal lies in using high-quality coal and high-efficiency low-emissions (HELE) technology to Metallurgical coal Thermal coal provide reliable baseload power while reducing carbon emissions. Figure 12: Aurizon’s coal-related revenues. In this year’s Report we continue this conversation, as coal will remain Source: Coal types: Wood MacKenzie Coal Supply Service (July 2016) and AZJ actual railings (by haul). important for both our haulage and The Aurizon coal revenue split is based on estimated product split at serviced mines by volume. network businesses. In this chapter we specifically draw attention to the role Australia plays in global coal supply in light of becoming the largest global coal exporter in 2015. We also provide new insight into seaborne metallurgical coal supply and the diversification of end use of steel through international supply Australian chains. Finally, we review the implications coal exports of climate change policy for seaborne carried by Australian thermal coal following commitments third-party coal exports from major thermal coal importing operators in NSW that used Aurizon Network countries in Asia. or were carried by Aurizon above rail IMPORTANCE OF business COAL TO AURIZON Approximately 68% of Aurizon’s revenue is derived from coal. As a result, we closely analyse Australia’s role in the global coal export markets. This requires two distinct areas of analysis to separately consider — Figure 13: metallurgical coal and thermal coal. Aurizon’s role in Australia’s coal exports. While both commodities are important Source: Port and terminal data, Aurizon analysis. to Aurizon in FY2016, metallurgical coal underpinned 73% of our network revenues and 51% of our (coal-related) rail haulage revenues (Figure 12). PAGE 18 Delivering for the Long Haul AURIZON’S ROLE IN and Glencore (who are the largest global substantially different exposures to AUSTRALIA’S COAL EXPORTS exporters of metallurgical and thermal coal political, economic and environmental respectively). As such, Australia has an factors that affect their demand. In FY2016 Australia exported record-high enviable position that is unmatched globally. coal volumes to Japan (thermal), South Another consideration is the location of Korea (thermal) and India (metallurgical). The following sections set out the inherent demand for thermal coal. While demand Australia also became the world’s largest drivers that underpin Australia’s role in for thermal coal is flat or declining in coal exporter accounting for 66% and 23% both global metallurgical and thermal coal North America, Europe and potentially of seaborne metallurgical and thermal coal supply. We believe Aurizon’s assets are well Australia, over 85% of the coal Aurizon supply respectively, as illustrated in Figure placed to serve the continued demand for transports is exported to Asia and 14. Aurizon’s participation in the global Australian coal as demonstrated by the the Indian sub-continent. Therefore, seaborne market is also significant as over steady increase in Australia’s coal exports the following sections set out the two-thirds of Australia’s coal exports either since 2010. inherent drivers underpinning demand use our Network or are carried by our in developed Asian economies such as above rail (haulage) business, as illustrated Japan, South Korea and Taiwan (that have DEMAND FOR SEABORNE COAL in Figure 13. historically provided a reliable source of IN KEY EXPORT MARKETS demand) and developing economies Australia’s supply position is differentiated including China and India (that have While much of the current public dialogue by high-quality coal mines, which are driven significant growth in the last regarding coal tends to consider it in operated by major diversified miners such decade). Figure 15 illustrates the key singular terms, thermal and metallurgical as BHP Billiton Mitsubishi Alliance (BMA) export destinations for Australian coal. coal have significantly different uses and Global seaborne metallurgical coal supply Global seaborne thermal coal supply 400 70% +3pts 1,000 24% +6pts 900 300 65% 800 700 Market Share 20% Million tonnes Market Share Million tonnes 600 200 60% 500 400 100 55% 16% 300 200 100 0 50% 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 12% 0 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Australia Rest of World Australia Share [RHS] Australia Rest of World Australia Share [RHS] Figure 14: Australia’s share of global seaborne coal supply. Source: Wood Mackenzie Global Coal Markets Tool (1H 2016). Japan | South Korea | Taiwan 203 213 169 181 182 70 71 65 70 66 104 111 115 133 142 FY2008 FY2010 FY2012 FY2014 FY2016 China 96 68 41 50 48 21 38 27 1 14 28 48 30 FY2008 FY2010 FY2012 FY2014 FY2016 India 49 39 44 32 30 25 37 31 29 24 2 6 1 1 1 Metallurgical coal Thermal coal FY2008 FY2010 FY2012 FY2014 FY2016 Figure 15: Key export destinations for Australian coal (million tonnes per annum). Source: Australian Bureau of Statistics. Numbers may not add up due to rounding. FY2016 Sustainability Report  PAGE 19 THE FUTURE OF SEABORNE METALLURGICAL COAL Also referred to as ‘coking coal’, metallurgical coal (used to produce steel) is a fundamental input into the modern built environment — enabling the production of buildings, infrastructure, cars and consumer goods. Listed below are the four key drivers that continue to underpin Australia’s success in the global seaborne metallurgical coal market. 1. INCREASING GLOBAL DEMAND FOR STEEL 2. LIMITED SUBSTITUTES IN STEEL PRODUCTION Considering the historical relationship between economic Metallurgical coal has no substitute in the ‘Basic Oxygen Furnace’ growth and steel demand, India and other major emerging (BOF) method of steelmaking, which represents 70% of global Asian economies are entering a highly steel-intensive period, steel production. Resource analysts, Wood Mackenzie, forecast as highlighted in Figure 16. China, Japan and South Korea are that metallurgical coal will still be required for the majority of steel also expected to maintain a high level of steel consumption production in 2030 and will almost double in India (Australia’s largest driven by more consumer intensive manufacturing and export. metallurgical coal export destination) by 2030 as indicated in Figure 17. 160 1,200 Apparent steel usage per capita South Korea 140 1,000 120 Million tonnes 800 100 80 600 China Germany Japan 60 400 USA 40 200 20 Other major emerging Asian countries India 0 0 0 5 10 15 20 25 30 35 40 45 50 55 60 2015 2020 2025 2030 GDP per capita (PPP dollars) BOF Other steel Metallurgical production coal requirement Figure 16: Figure 17: Per capita steel usage versus per capita income by key countries. Indian steel production and metallurgical coal demand. Source: World Bank (GDP and population data), CEIC (steel data) and Source: WoodMac Global Coal Markets Tool. Aurizon analysis 3. SCARCITY OF METALLURGICAL COAL 4. AUSTRALIA’S EXPORT INFRASTRUCTURE ADVANTAGE China is the largest metallurgical coal producer but consumes all of As illustrated in Figure 19, Australia has the lowest average what it produces and still requires imports. As shown in Figure 18, transportation and port costs compared to other significant most other steel producing countries, meanwhile, rely almost metallurgical coal exporting nations. Australia’s advantage entirely on imports to meet their needs due to lack of reserves. is underpinned by an established heavy haul coal network, As a result, over 30% of global Bubble demand is met through size represents populationinternational and a small number of large port terminals. Australia also trade, over half of which is carried by Aurizon’s Central Queensland has deep-water ports and close proximity to key Asian Coal Network (CQCN). economies (which reduces sea freight costs). Australia India Russia USA/Canada 60 $8 50 Japan/ $11 40 Mongolia $13 USD/tonne South Korea/ Taiwan $5 30 $7 $5 $6 $8 20 $36 $6 $26 $23 10 $4 $20 1 billion tonnes Consumption Production $8 0 Australia Russia Canada United Mozambique States Land transport Port Sea freight Figure 18: Figure 19: Outlook for seaborne metallurgical coal demand and supply Land transport, port and sea freight costs from major metallurgical to 2030 by key countries (excluding China). coal export countries to India. Source: WoodMac Global Coal Markets Tool. Source: Wood Mackenzie Coal Costs Benchmarking May 2016. Freight: Wood Mackenzie Global Coal Tool (1H 2016), arrival India. Australia: Hay Point, United States: Hampton Roads, Canada: West Coast. PAGE 20 Delivering for the Long Haul THE FUTURE OF SEABORNE THERMAL COAL Thermal coal is used to produce electricity and consequently it supports the provision of affordable and reliable energy for households, business and industry, including lighting, heating, cooling, cooking, refrigeration, communications and industrial processes. The four key drivers that continue to underpin Australia’s success in the global seaborne thermal coal market are listed below. 1. INCREASING GLOBAL ELECTRICITY 2. INCREASING DEMAND FOR THERMAL COAL DEMAND IN ASIA POWER GENERATION Global electricity demand will be driven by economic development Demand for electricity in non-OECD Asian economies is expected in China, India and other emerging Asian economies. In particular, to almost double by 2030. While a greater share of investment will over one billion additional people will gain access to electricity by be directed towards renewable energy capacity, coal-fired power 2040 while an additional two billion will double their current levels generation is still expected to increase 43% in absolute terms to of per capita consumption (Figure 20). 2030 (Figure 21). +82% 15,000 Oil 14,441 Bubble size represents population USA 12,500 South Korea Hydro kWh per capita 10,000 Gas 7,500 Japan 7,906 Germany Non-hydro 5,000 +43% renewables China 2,500 Nuclear India Other major emerging Asian countries 0 1,275 0 5 10 15 20 25 30 35 40 45 50 55 60 Coal GDP per capita (PPP dollars) 1990 2013 2030 Figure 20: Figure 21: Per capita electricity consumption versus per capita income International Energy Agency (IEA) outlook for electricity by key countries. generation in non-OECD Asia by source (TWh, share). Source: World Bank (GDP, population and electricity data) and Aurizon analysis. Source: IEA World Energy Outlook, New Policies Scenario 2015. 3. IMPORTANCE OF HIGH-QUALITY LOWER-EMISSION COAL 4. ADOPTION OF EFFICIENT GENERATION TECHNOLOGY Continued dependence on coal for affordable and reliable Recognising that a large number of coal-fired power plants will power means it is important that the highest quality coal is be built in Asia and the Indian sub-continent over coming decades, used to reduce greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. On average, it is important that the most efficient technology is used to reduce Aurizon customers’ coal has the highest energy content and GHG emissions. Currently, when ultra-super critical coal technology relatively low ash content when compared to most other major is used with high-quality coal, it can reduce emissions by 48% sources of thermal coal. For example, as Figure 22 shows, compared to sub-critical plant technology using lower compared to lower quality coal, it can produce 21% less coal quality (Figure 23). emissions per megawatt hour (MWh) of electricity. 39% 1.50 1.50 Best available technology and coal 21% less GHG emissions 1.38 1.35 1.35 Emissions intensity (tCO2 /MWh) Emissions intensity (tCO2 /MWh) 48% less GHG emissions 0.31 1.20 1.20 1.05 1.05 0.19 0.90 0.90 0.17 0.75 0.75 0.60 20% 0.60 15% 0.45 0.45 0.71 0.30 0.30 0.15 0.15 5% 6% 0.06 0.00 0.00 Lignite India China Indonesia Aurizon SubSubSuperUltraUltraCCS domestic domestic export customers’ critical critical critical supersupertechnoexports critical critical logy Energy content 4,100 4,500 5,200 5,100 6,100 (kcal/kg) Lignite Aurizon coal customers’ coal GHG emissions intensity (tCO2 /MWh) Ash content Figure 22: Figure 23: Carbon emission intensity and ash content. Electricity sector emissions abatement potential. Source: India: India Ministry of Coal, Coal Statistics 2014-2015, China: Wood Source: Department of Energy Resources and Tourism Australia, A Cleaner Mackenzie, China Coal Supply Service 2014, Indonesia: Wood Mackenzie Coal Cost Future of Power Stations, 2013. Service May 2016, Aurizon: Wood Mackenzie Australia Supply Service June 2015. (tCO2/MWh) FY2016 Sustainability Report  PAGE 21 CASE STUDY Global steel flows and implications for Australia’s metallurgical coal exports. The ultimate driver of demand for Australian metallurgical coal exports is not only where it is exported (and steel is produced) but also where the steel is finally consumed. Based on EY analysis4 on global flows of steel produced using Australian metallurgical coal, three key insights can be drawn: 1. Australian metallurgical coal is used to 2. Transport and Electrical & Machinery 3. The amount of Australian metallurgical produce steel consumed across a range are key export sectors for steel coal in steel consumed in key end of sectors and geographic regions. produced in Asia. markets is increasing. From 2005 to 2015, 20% more sectors and Construction is currently the leading In the USA between 2005 to 2015 it is 61% more end consumers were estimated driver of domestic steel demand in many estimated that steel used in the transport to be using over one mtpa of steel-based Asian countries that import Australia’s sector (e.g. motor vehicles and parts) products produced using Australian metallurgical coal. However, in countries fell from 44.7mt to 38.8mt. Despite this, metallurgical coal. that import steel-based products that USA transport sector consumption rely on Australian metallurgical coal, of steel produced using Australian While only 11% of Australian metallurgical Transport and Electrical & Machinery metallurgical coal increased from coal was directly exported to the USA and sectors are key drivers of demand. 4.6mt to 4.9mt. EU in 2015, they consumed an estimated 18% or 44.6mt of steel produced using For example, these sectors account In India between 2005 to 2015 it is Australian metallurgical coal. This amount for almost half of all steel-based estimated that steel used in the electrical is greater than India’s (42.1mt) or Japan’s products consumed in the USA and and machinery sector (e.g. computers (24.4mt) estimated consumption of steel EU, yet produced using Australian and televisions) grew by over 50% . produced using Australian metallurgical coal. metallurgical coal. In comparison, this sector’s consumption in India of steel produced using Australian metallurgical coal doubled to 8.6mt. While more steel is being produced in Asia, it is increasingly exported to a range of sectors and customers globally. Given the international competitiveness of steel production, it is essential that steel producers can access low cost, high-quality inputs (including metallurgical coal). For example, in coastal regions of China, we understand that Australian metallurgical coal is up to 20% cheaper than domestic Chinese supply. It is therefore not surprising that the OECD has identified a shift in steel production towards coastal areas in China5. Particularly as these coastal steel mills are mostly designed to produce steel used in the Transport and Electrical & Machinery sectors. Top twenty flows of steel produced using Australian metallurgical coal in 2015 5mt 3mt 6mt 6mt 2mt 14mt 13mt 2mt 10mt 12mt 10mt 3mt Steel produced using 3mt Australian metallurgical coal 10mt 20 million tonnes of steel produced for domestic use 10-15 million tonnes 186mt of steel based exports metallurgical coal exports from 5-10 million tonnes Australia 3mt of steel based exports 2.5-5 million tonnes of steel-based exports 241mt of steel produced using Exports to Rest of World Australian metallurgical coal 4 EY conducted the analysis based on the EORA Multi-Regional Input Output database using 2015 Australian metallurgical coal export data from IHS. 5 Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) Capacity Developments in the World Steel Industry, 2015. CASE STUDY Climate change policy implications for Australia’s thermal coal exports. In the lead up to the Paris Agreement in December 2015, Australia’s key thermal coal export destination countries updated emission reduction pledges or Nationally Determined Contributions (NDCs). These NDCs identify how each country 400 IEA Current Policies Scenario (CPS) — Australian thermal coal exports will voluntarily reduce greenhouse current global energy and climate policy 350 remains unchanged to 2040 gas emissions from 2020 to 20306. 300 Contrary to the common perception IEA New Policies Scenario (NPS) — 250 assumes implementation of recently announced that coal-fired generation has a limited global policy commintments and plans role to play in a low-emissions future, 200 2DS — assumes global policy shifts (mtpa) the NDCs in Japan, South Korea, India 150 aimed at limiting global temperature rises by and China all include plans to continue two degrees centigrade with Australia's global 100 seaborne thermal coal market share increasing using coal through the adoption of to 30% by 2030 (from 23% in 2015) 50 more efficient power generation 0 IEA 450 or 2 Degree Scenario (2DS) — technologies. Relevant highlights assumes global policy shifts aimed at limiting global from NDCs are summarised below: 2010 2015 2020 2025 2030 temperature rises by two degrees centigrade Japan: expects coal to provide over 25% of electricity needs While we adopt the NPS as our primary A  ustralia’s share of the global through to 2030, and has recently reference point given that it broadly seaborne thermal coal market set new efficiency standards for serves as the IEA’s ‘baseline scenario’, would more likely increase under coal-fired power that mandate we continue to monitor other demand 2DS. For example, it is possible ultra-supercritical plants. factors. These factors include technology under 2DS that Australia could costs, economic reform, trade policy, sustain or increase coal exports South Korea: forecasts an increase foreign exchange rates, energy prices beyond 2015 levels if its share of in the share of electricity from coal and urban air quality standards. the global seaborne thermal coal from 28% to above 30% by 2030. market reached 30% before The IEA also provides two other policy 2030 — this likelihood is based India: has “mandated to use the highly scenarios, referred to as the Current on Australia’s ability to supply efficient super-critical technology” Policies Scenario (CPS) and 450 or Asia’s needs of high-quality coal and expects “coal will continue to 2 Degree Scenario (2DS), which are to reduce emissions per unit of dominate power generation in future” also shown above. We believe that any energy generated, particularly in — it also identifies research on deviation towards the CPS is an unlikely high-efficiency coal-fired power low emissions coal technology as outcome based on current momentum plants. It is also supported by “an urgent necessity”. from the Paris Agreement. We also Australia’s recent increase in anticipate that any shift towards global seaborne market share China: has pledged “to lower 2DS will be gradual as new policy from 20% in 2013 (23% in 2015). coal consumption of electricity commitments are considered in generation of newly built coal-fired the context of the Paris Agreement. It will be a matter for individual key power plants to around 300 grams thermal coal export destination countries coal equivalent per kilowatt-hour” To illustrate the differences in these as to how they reduce emissions. — this plan requires a combination scenarios, we have excluded Australian However, we believe flexible marketof efficient coal-fired generation metallurgical coal exports from the based mechanisms will inevitably technology and higher coal quality. diagram above and assumed Australia’s lower the cost of their transition. If these pre-existing share of the global seaborne mechanisms are globally or regionally The International Energy Agency thermal coal market remains constant linked, it may also help drive electricity (IEA) provides forecasts based on at 23% to 2030. However, we have sector emissions reductions through the government measures announced confidence in the following market finance of High Efficiency Low in the NDCs. This outlook is referred outcomes, which should also be Emissions (HELE) coal-fired generation to as the IEA New Policies Scenario considered: technologies. We support the (NPS). At present, NPS suggests that constructive consideration of how thermal coal demand in Asia will slow We expect metallurgical coal exports  such mechanisms could be best but still increase in absolute terms. will increase under all scenarios — developed in support of affordable This corresponds to a 25% increase in as climate change policy is not a key and reliable energy access. Australia thermal coal exports by 2030, driver of metallurgical coal demand as shown above7. for steel consumption; and 6 Intended Nationally Determined Contributions (INDCs) as communicated by Parties (as communicated by 1 October 2015). 7 Aurizon analysis of the IEA World Energy Outlook 2015: “Coal trade by Region in the New Policies Scenario”, “Coal demand, production and trade by scenario”. Operational Efficiency Aurizon is committed to taking the least resource-intensive approach to our operations to deliver long-term productivity improvement. At Aurizon we measure our operational In multi-user rail networks, initiatives to efficiency via three key metrics: improve services for one operator provides benefits to all operators. In this way the “We are focused on  Network availability — measured operational performance improvement improving those things by CQCN closures and below rail in the CQCN has delivered benefits to within our direct control cancellations. all participants in the supply chain.  Asset productivity — measured by As volumes have increased, closure hours — our operations, our net tonnes carried multiplied by have also reduced. systems and support costs, distance travelled (NTK) per active and technology. We must locomotive or wagon. Key to our below rail (network) maintenance and renewal strategy is enhanced change and innovate,  nergy productivity — measured E by litres of diesel (L) or kilowatt hours capabilities. Our CQCN is progressing on a do existing things in new journey to automated track inspections and (kWh) per thousand gross tonne has implemented a number of improvements ways, and stop doing the kilometres (GTK). stuff that adds little value.” that exploit deep analytical capability to identify complex patterns in data to predict Table 2 below highlights our recent operational efficiency performance faults, optimise the maintenance response, Lance Hockridge and improve reliability. These include: according to these metrics. Managing Director & CEO 1. Reducing the frequency of manual rail NETWORK AVAILABILITY inspections from four days to eight days for selected track sections. The CQCN set a new railings record of of the network for physical inspections, 2. Use of remote monitoring to extend while also reducing worker exposure to 226mt in FY2016. This highlights the inspection periods. efficiency of our network planning, hazardous environments (particularly scheduling systems, as well as the 3. Introduction of remotely controlled substituting working at heights for benefits of our proactive maintenance rail lubricators contributing to a drone inspection). program. Highlights include: reduction in rail and wheel wear. Aurizon has the aspirational goal to 4. Use of aerial drones for inspection 0.7% reduction in system closure remove the need for all physical of electrical overhead and bridge hours and a 35% reduction in below inspections, thus removing staff from structures. rail cancellation impact. the rail corridor for the purposes of Avoiding traditional techniques for inspections. Achieving this goal would 62% reduction in the number of below enable Aurizon Network staff to shift inspecting these assets removes or rail train cancellations since FY2013 from ‘finders of faults’ to ‘fixers of faults’. reduces the need for closing sections (against a 24% increase in railings). Measure Metric FY2016 FY2015 Change Network availability System closures (hours) 1,018 1,025 0.7%  Below rail cancellation impact* 1.1% 1.7% 35%  Asset productivity Wagons (NTK per active wagon, daily) 14.7 14.3 3%  Locomotive (NTK per active locomotive, daily) 375.7 339.5 11%  Energy productivity L/000GTK 3.10 3.19 3%  kWh/000GTK 9.3 10.6 12%  Legend ■ Improvement in metric performance ■ Decline in metric performance Table 2: Key operational efficiency improvements. * Number of above rail services cancelled due to a below rail cause as a percentage of weekly agreed orders. PAGE 24 Delivering for the Long Haul ASSET PRODUCTIVITY 400 NTK per active locomotive (daily) Asset productivity has been a key area of focus for Aurizon. In 2013 Aurizon began adding wagons to coal trains in order to maximise locomotive hauling 350 capacity. Across the Central Queensland Coal Network (CQCN) this initiative has resulted in a 5% increase in train lengths and 4% increase in payload. By comparison, if train lengths had not 300 increased over this period, 743 more trains would need to be passing through our communities to move the same volume of coal as was hauled in FY2016 (Figure 25). 250 FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 Higher train utilisation also enables us Aurizon US Class 1 average to reduce the size of our locomotive and wagon fleet. As a result we have 3% more Figure 24: NTK per active wagon and 11% more Locomotive productivity — Aurizon and US Class 1’s average. NTK per active locomotive compared to FY2015. While there are many contributing factors, we note that we have improved locomotive productivity significantly +5% and now sit above the US class 1 average, as shown in Figure 24. Longer trains We have also deliberately started to standardise our fleet. This has resulted in Payloads 37% fewer wagons and locomotive classes remaining in operation (compared to Heavier trains 4% FY2012), as illustrated in Figure 26. By FY2018 we expect to halve the number of wagons and locomotive classes (compared to FY2012). Fewer trains 743 less trains Figure 25: Longer and heavier trains result in fewer trains. FY2012 (Historical) FY2016 (Current) FY2018 (Target) Wagon classes 368 234 177 Wagon classes Wagon classes Wagon classes Locomotive classes 64 40 31 Locomotive types Locomotive types Locomotive types Operating Reduce Reduce Reduced maintenance flexibility volume risk parts/inventory costs and planning complexity Figure 26: Reduction in wagon and loco classes from FY2012 to FY2018. FY2016 Sustainability Report  PAGE 25 RELIABILITY AND AVAILABILITY In the FY2015 Sustainability Report ENERGY PRODUCTIVITY we highlighted the implementation of our The key dimensions of asset productivity Locomotive diesel and electricity usage condition monitoring program and the are reliability and availability. To sustainably is a focus at Aurizon as it contributed expected performance we hoped to deliver. improve these operational metrics we 10% of our expenditure and 92% of The first phase of this program began in have implemented Condition Monitoring our greenhouse gas (GHG) in FY2016. 2014 with the following outcomes systems to predict faults, reduce frequency Since FY2015, we have reduced diesel delivered in the CQCN to date: of inspections required and avoid and electricity consumption per GTK cancellations through unscheduled 1. Contributed to a 51% reduction in wheel by 3% and 12% respectively through maintenance. usage (FY2015 as compared to more efficient rollingstock, technology, FY2016), as illustrated in Figure 27. redesigning operations and introducing Our rollingstock maintenance strategy 2. 86% reduction in the number of serious longer trains. uses sensors to deliver information in order to understand and maintain condition, operational incidents such as train partings (FY2013 as compared We are committed to reducing GHG predict the issues that impact safety emissions by 15% per GTK by FY2020 and reliability, reduce unscheduled to FY2016). and we are delivering significant cost maintenance events, and decongest 3. Increased the wagon inspection savings as well as outcomes for the our busy rail yards. Our technology cycle from one to two years. community and the broader environment. investments have yielded significant 4. Automated fault detection of doors, reliability and availability improvements draft gear, couplers, axles, wheels A key way to reduce energy consumption through both condition-based and and brake systems. is through improved train handling, as it can predictive maintenance techniques. dramatically affect the amount of energy consumed over a specific route. One study in the Blackwater Coal System showed diesel consumption could vary by up to “A more sustainable approach to asset maintenance will result 10% or 2000 litres across the same route with different drivers. in efficiencies for the Company over the next 10 years and improved operational performance for our customers, By working with drivers to document and educate best practices, Aurizon is especially if we can intervene before an asset fails.” seeking to have all drivers operate trains in the most energy-efficient manner. Alex Kummant, While training can progressively change EVP Network driver behaviour, Aurizon has found providing dynamic advice onboard in ‘real-time’ to be more effective. The next evolution of technology is to 1,200 standardise train handling with GE’s Stage 1: Commencement of WCM and Stage software Trip Optimiser 2: Full implementation (TO), which is 1,000 progressive implementation to December 2015 comparable to ‘cruise control’ for train Wheel usage (per month) driving. While the driver maintains control, 800 through the ability to intervene, TO will 51% run the train according to a predefined driving methodology. This technology 600 has been used in North America for over a decade, resulting in fuel savings 400 of 3% to 10% depending on-train configuration and topography. 200 Early runs in our first TO corridor between Melbourne and Adelaide have confirmed 0 Ju A l-14 ug Se -14 ovp O -14 ct N -14 these fuel savings figures. Aurizon will D -14 complete TO roll out in three more ec Ja -14 n Fe -15 b M -15 ar A -15 p r M -15 ay Ju -15 nJu 15 A l-15 ug Se -15 p O -15 ct N -15 ov D -15 ec Ja -15 n corridors in FY2017. Fe -16 b M -16 ar A -16 p ayr M -16 Ju -16 n16 Figure 27: Aurizon’s historical wheel usage on the CQCN (benefits of condition monitoring and predictive maintenance). PAGE 26 Delivering for the Long Haul CASE STUDY Towards the digital railway of the future. As illustrated in this chapter and throughout this Report, technology has been identified as a key component of our competitive advantage. “We continue to benchmark As Aurizon’s operational efficiency improves, technology will be relied upon ourselves against relevant even more to identify productivity opportunities and achieve sustainable benefits. To give affect to this advantage, we have developed a five-year world-leading peers and partner technology roadmap encompassing information and operational technology where appropriate to access new that is closely aligned to our strategy to deliver real business benefits. technology and capabilities. We’re WHAT DOES THIS MEAN FOR OUR BUSINESS? mindful of where technology could Data from monitoring equipment provides deeper insight and greater take us in the future and undertake control of business operations and assets. Insightful operational analytics from real-time information that drives integrated enterprise planning with faster and better business decisions. strong governance processes to Automating simplified, standardised processes to unlock safety, ensure that we can unlock benefits.” service quality and efficiency opportunities. Technology-enabled workforce to improve individual productivity Steve Mann and job satisfaction and increase collaboration. Digital channels deepen customer relationships and connect VP Technology Transformation supply chains. POSSESSION ALIGNMENT AND CAPACITY ADVANCED PLANNING AND EXECUTION (APEX) EVALUATION (PACE) OPERATIONAL TECHNOLOGY PACE gives us foresight into all track access requirements for Implemented in FY2016, APEX allows us to adapt planning and maintenance and renewals. The evaluator allows optimisation scheduling of trains from two years out to ‘Day Of Operations’ of throughput, reliability and cost, so that we can meet capacity through faster, more responsive modelling of future scenarios. requirements at minimum cost. It does this by helping to smooth This represents a step change improvement, replacing manual and reduce capacity impacts and associated costs rather than (paper) processes with automated (digital) processes. It has concentrating capacity impacts that lead to closures. the potential to increase network capacity by 856 paths. INTEGRATED OPERATING PLAN (IOP) FREIGHT MANAGEMENT TRANSFORMATION (FMT) The IOP is a technology-enabled, enterprise-wide approach Last year we provided a case study into the continued deployment to continuous improvement. By applying the service design of the Freight Management Transformation (FMT) program. principles below, with safe work practices, Aurizon operates This has involved delivery of re-engineered customer ordering, longer, heavier and faster trains with fewer assets and resources. pricing and invoicing functions, as well as enhanced reporting As illustrated below, the IOP targets improvement opportunities and analytics tools. in every aspect of our operations. BALANCED 24/7 INTEGRATED THINKING ENERGY EMBED FLEXIBILITY REDUCE DWELL, SCHEDULING AND SYSTEM PLANNING EFFICIENT INTO PLANNING INCREASE VELOCITY • Reduces asset base • Ensures best use of above • Less energy consumption • Matches supply to demand • Increases asset utilisation • Reduces cost base to deliver and below rail assets reduces costs and • Increases capacity and • Reduces non-productive time the same volume • Maximises throughput, improves our optimises planning/scheduling • Increases supply chain efficiency and safety environmental footprint productivity and capacity MAXIMISE MULTI-COMMODITY ELIMINATE PAYLOAD TRAINS UNNECESSARY TASKS STANDARDISATION • Fewer train starts • Improves service • Streamlines processes and • Reduces variability LEVERAGE • Increases asset utilisation • Increases train lengths procedures, reduces waste • Creates operating flexibility TECHNOLOGY • Reduces train starts • Reduces assets inventory • Increases assets utilisation and maintenance • Improves operational metrics • Standardises and improves systems and processes • Reduces assets, fuel and maintenance costs FY2016 Sustainability Report PAGE 27 “To help our customers remain competitive in the global market, we are proactively working with them in delivering efficient services at competitive prices.” Mauro Neves EVP, Customer & Strategy PAGE 28 Delivering for the Long Haul Customer Partnerships Helping Aurizon’s customers to prosper and grow is our priority. Indeed, it is essential if we are to do the same. At Aurizon we provide rail transportation We also recognise the need to listen, PARTNERING WITH CUSTOMERS services to a wide variety of customers act and respond to customer feedback. across the country. We also operate and In the first quarter of FY2016 we undertook We continue to build strong relationships manage the Central Queensland Coal a Customer Pulse survey for this reason. with new and existing customers and Network (CQCN) and service the needs An independent company facilitated contribute on matters affecting their of other rail operators and their respective a phone survey with our 50 largest industries. In particular, we are members customers. For many of our customers, customers across all of our business of the Australian Logistics Council, global commodity market price reductions segments. The survey was repeated in Queensland Resources Council, have increased pressure on their the last quarter of FY2016 and NSW Minerals Council and World Coal profitability, making it more important encouragingly reflected a 6.3% uplift Association. Through these industry than ever for us to collaborate to improve in the scores received. This external survey associations we are able to better supply chain efficiency and reduce costs. complements our monthly monitoring of appreciate issues affecting our supply chain performance metrics. customers and the broader industry. A key focus of our Blueprint strategy is customer focus which means deeper Finally, we cannot overstate the importance Our Network business also actively relationships, great service and innovative of our efforts to ensure our safety and that participates in the Capricornia Coal Chain commercial approaches. of our customers. We know that some of Steering Committee, Integrated Logistics our customers have alternatives to using Group and Abbott Point User Group to rail transport and we encourage them improve supply chain performance. WORLD-LEADING SERVICE to choose the safest mode of freight transport in rail. To that end, we continue As outlined in the Future of Coal chapter, to improve our own safety performance, Australia has a globally competitive recording 12 months Lost Time Injury (LTI) position in coal export infrastructure. free across our business and eight years This has been underpinned by a 10.4% LTI free in our Intermodal business through decrease in the average above rail rate to FY2016. per tonne for our coal customers in the CQCN since FY2012 (in real terms). Our Network business has supported many of the above rail productivity 12 7% improvements for the CQCN through increased capacity, availability and reliability while also enabling a 2.4% decrease in the average below rail rate 9 per tonne since FY2012 (in real terms). AUD/tonne This represents an overall above and below rail rate reduction of 7% from 6 FY2012 to FY2016, as shown in Figure 28. A key driver of the above and below rate reduction is a number of operational (e.g. longer trains) and technology 3 improvements that facilitate increased volume on the CQCN. 0 While the cost of our service is important FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 to our customers, other factors such as reducing their costs of planning, Below rail Above rail ordering and managing supply chains are also relevant. We therefore seek to Figure 28: provide reliable services, flexibility to Average above and below rail coal rates per tonne in the CQCN ($June 2016 real). increase tonnes where available and tailored information via customer portals, Source: Aurizon analysis. Nominal ($A converted into June 2016 $A using CPI as sourced from including live train and container tracking. the Australian Bureau of Statistics). FY2016 Sustainability Report  PAGE 29 INNOVATIVE CUSTOMER DIVERSIFIED BULK FREIGHT Increased competition from road, however, SOLUTIONS has restricted growth in the Intermodal Lower commodity prices and greater rail market. We believe it is critical for the competition from road have challenged the Greater understanding of our customers sustainability of freight transport within sector in the last 12 months. Against this and innovation in supply chain operation Australia to encourage the complimentary backdrop, our strategy of introducing allows us to enhance the customer relationship between rail and road to performance-based contracts remains, experience with mutual benefit. improve freight transport efficiency. and we are on track to meet our target This is to cope with the growth in the of 80% of bulk volumes on new form national land freight task and also to limit COAL contracts by FY2017. Some recent the associated impacts from transport on contract wins include BHP Nickel West, Aurizon is not alone in its need to transform the environment and society, as outlined Australian Gold Reagents and Cockburn its business. The coal sector has decreased in the Regulatory Environment chapter. Cement Limited. The key to winning employee numbers and some mines have these contracts has been collaboration closed. In this context, we strive to be more BUILDING RESILIENCE and innovation with customers. flexible, effective and innovative. In FY2016 we sought to deepen relationships with We continue to work with customers and The first priority of our customers, after our coal customers through a number of innovate within their supply chains, as we safety, is getting their product to port. contract extensions in the CQCN and demonstrated with our partnership with The costs of interruptions can escalate the Hunter Valley, including: BHP Nickel West. Previously Aurizon only quickly and in a region where there are provided rail haulage for nickel dry more frequent and extreme severe weather BHP Billiton (BHPB) — Mt Arthur mine events, our actions to improve resilience concentrates. Under the new five-year Yancoal — Cameby Downs and contract Aurizon now operates an to these events are of significant potential Duralie mines integrated supply chain of road haulage, benefit to Aurizon and our customers. Vale — Carborough Downs mine silo operation and maintenance, as well as the rail haulage. This sees Aurizon take full Central to the resilience of Aurizon’s CQCN Sojitz — Minerva mine. is implementation of a Network Condition control of the supply chain to increase efficiency and deliver new safety initiatives (NETCON) program. In our FY2014 A number of innovative partnership (by installing auto-roof hatches on road Sustainability Report we outlined how we solutions incorporated in these contracts tankers, preventing people from climbing design (and construct) assets to minimise are highlighted below. on top for loading). disruptions and financial loss to us and our customers. In this FY2016 Report Mt Arthur Mine we focus on the preparation and INTERMODAL monitoring for severe weather events. The Mt Arthur mine is the biggest coal While conditions in the Queensland market Figure 29 illustrates the stages mine in Australia, producing high-quality remain difficult, there was solid growth and relevant actions under NETCON. thermal coal. Balancing BHPB’s requirement for flexibility with Aurizon’s through the Melbourne to Brisbane The following systems in the rail network need for certainty, our teams worked intermodal corridor. Volume growth of provide data and protection during together to agree an extension of the 9% was supported by 175 new Aurizon extreme weather events: existing contract for the coal mine from intermodal wagons and opening 2020 to 2028. The haulage contract now of our Enfield depot in Western Sydney Slip detection monitors measure the includes flexibility to deliver under (pictured below). We recently announced slope stability above the track section and different future production scenarios, a five-year contract with K&S Freighters warn of landslip or significant rockfall. including increased volumes from 18 million as a foundation customer of the Port Botany rail shuttle service that will move Flood monitors provide early warning tonnes per annum (mtpa) to 26 mtpa. imports daily from the Port to Enfield via and measure flood height progression The extension of this long-term contract rail. We also continue to pursue Beneficial over time giving a prediction as to demonstrates clear commitment and Freight Owners such as Woolworths and when waters will affect the operation confidence by Aurizon and BHPB in Coles for our interstate intermodal services, of the railway. the local coal industry. with these customers now representing Automated power shut-off systems approximately three quarters of our isolate equipment from power if water Minerva Mine intermodal revenue. reaches signal control rooms to help recovery post a flood event. Sojitz Coal Mining and Kores Australia Mining own the Minerva mine, which is connected to the Blackwater Rail System via the 40 kilometre Minerva branch line. To enable the operation of the branch line, Aurizon undertook significant infrastructure renewal and worked with Sojitz to optimise capital costs while still providing a safe and reliable network. IRON ORE Our iron ore customers are pursuing aggressive cost reduction programs in light of lower commodity prices. We continue to work with them to identify cost saving and productivity opportunities throughout the supply chain. For example, we implemented driver-only operations with Karara Mining Ltd in FY2016 to improve productivity and reduce costs. The new Aurizon Enfield depot in Western Sydney. PAGE 30 Delivering for the Long Haul NETCON 1 NETCON 2 NETCON 3 NETCON 4 NETCON 5 OPERATIONAL PREPARATION ALERT IMMINENT EVENT OCCURS Timing: Timing: Timing: Timing: Timing: ■■ June – August ■■ September – May ■■ Event has potential ■■ Event is forecast ■■ Event has stopped impact to CQCN. to impact CQCN operations on directly. CQCN. Actions: Actions: Actions: Actions: Actions: ■■ Business as usual. ■■ Vegetation control ■■ Review staff ■■ Incident ■■ Ensure safety of ■■ Drain and culvert availability Management Team all staff cleaning ■■ Review location of (IMT) mobilised ■■ Ensure staff do not ■■ Comms testing high-value assets ■■ Identify location enter the field until ■■ Power backup and location to of all staff and cleared by IMT testing stow trains stand down ■■ Stand down from ■■ Confirm availability ■■ Alert staff and ■■ Engineering and NETCON 5 once of ballast, flood contractors. safety staff on all remedial works rock, rail and standby required for safe sleepers. ■■ Advise mines and train movement ports of preparations have been Figure 29: and possible completed. NETCON stages and actions. impacts of events. NETWORK HEAT MAP Recognising that rail infrastructure is However, with the heat map, we’re able vulnerable to extreme temperatures, to limit the boundaries of the TSRs to Aurizon Network has estimated the financial Aurizon has recently invested in real-time only those that are above 38 degrees. implications of extreme temperatures in data heat monitoring in our CQCN. Additionally, TSRs can be wound back Central Queensland that have contributed Figure 30 illustrates this ‘heat’ map, as individual sites fall below 38 degrees. to track buckling, broken rails, pull aparts which can be used to apply targeted heat and cracked rails being in the order of There have been increasing days of restrictions to track sections affected by $4-5 million per anum. These cost estimates extreme heat and our view is that this extreme heat, thus reducing the application are principally associated with train delays trend is likely to continue. As a result, of blanket system heat restrictions. and cancellations. Additionally, it is estimated the ‘heat’ map has the potential to that the impact on Aurizon’s above rail The temperature standard states that blanket reduce the weather impact on the business of speed restrictions placed on temporary speed restrictions (TSRs) are to Company and the associated costs locomotives relating to high temperatures be applied to the full maintenance district to our customers. is $6-10 million per annum. when temperatures exceed 35 degrees. Hay Point Dalrymple Bay Network heat map key outcomes Reduced number of days when speed restrictions are needed. Reduced amount of track where speed restrictions are applied. Once the heat map is implemented blanket speed restrictions will be avoided. Jilalan Kemmis North Goonyella Riverside South Walker Goonyella Oxford Legend Moranbah North <35° Copabella 35°-36° 36°-37° 37°-38° Moranbah Millennium >38° Figure 30: Network heat map. FY2016 Sustainability Report  PAGE 31 Environmental Management Our goal is to take the safest, most efficient and least resource-intensive approach to how we deliver our services. OUR ENVIRONMENT STRATEGY MINIMISING EMISSIONS CARBON RISK DISCLOSURE Our Environment Strategy focuses on We seek to reduce the emissions intensity In November 2015 we received an award six material areas: greenhouse gas (GHG) of our operations by investing in energy for ‘Best year-on-year improvement in emissions, diesel emissions, coal dust, efficiency initiatives. climate performance’ at the CDP biodiversity, waste and noise. This chapter (previously Carbon Disclosure Project) focuses on greenhouse gas emissions, As outlined in Table 3, in FY2016 Aurizon’s Australian Climate Leadership Awards. diesel emissions, biodiversity and waste. total Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions We improved our score from 81D to 95B The Community Engagement chapter equalled 1,091 ktCO2e, representing a (100A being the best) due to increased provides information on community 2.8% reduction from the previous year. disclosure and energy efficiency initiatives. interest areas of coal dust and noise. As illustrated in Figure 31, approximately Emission Environmental regulations evolve with 92% of Aurizon’s total GHG emissions source FY2016 FY2015 Change new information and changing societal relate to the operation of our attitudes. Our environment strategy locomotive fleet. Scope 1 657 693 -5.3% comprises much more than regulatory (ktCO2e) compliance, with our environmental In FY2016 we established a new target performance principles including: of 15% reduction in the GHG emissions Scope 2 435 429 1.3% intensity of our locomotive fleet by (ktCO2e) using an evidence-based approach 2020 (using FY2015 as baseline). So far Total 1,091 1,122 -2.8% to deliver the most effective we have achieved a 6% reduction in our emissions environmental outcomes GHG emissions intensity since FY2015. Looking forward, if we achieve our 15% Legend: ■ Improvement ■ Decline w  orking with key stakeholders to target, it will result in a reduction to the develop an enterprise-wide position GHG emissions intensity of our locomotive Table 3: on our material environmental issues fleet by almost 30% in our first decade Aurizon’s GHG emissions profile. proactively managing our since Initial Public Offering (IPO) in 2010. environmental issues while supporting business continuity By systematically reducing Aurizon’s GHG and sustainable outcomes emissions, we are delivering significant cost integrating environmental savings for our business, as well as bringing considerations into relevant benefits to our customers, the community policies and procedures. and the environment. We have also been preparing for the introduction of the Emissions Reduction Fund (ERF) Safeguard Mechanism. GHG emission source This requires Aurizon to keep covered tCO2e facilities’ emissions below a baseline set by the Regulator. We currently have three facilities that are subject to the safeguard threshold of 100,000 tCO2e Aurizon monitors and of Scope 1 emissions. minimises impacts on the communities and Aurizon has undertaken a detailed sensitivity analysis to understand ecosystems in which we exposure to the ERF Safeguard Locomotive fleet 92% Purchased electricity — facilities 3% operate by increasing Mechanism. Based on this analysis Other 3% operational efficiency we anticipate that each facility will Diesel — other transport 2% remain below their baselines for and offering sustainable the foreseeable future. transport options. Figure 31: Aurizon’s GHG emission sources. PAGE 32 Delivering for the Long Haul DIESEL EMISSIONS 13% reduction achieved Targeting a further 15% reduction 12 We seek to improve the efficiency and operations of our fleet to minimise diesel emissions at source. 10 kgCO2e/’000GTK Diesel emissions from our locomotives are 8 a key environmental focus for Aurizon and the communities we operate in. We are 6 committed to investigating and voluntarily investing in technology, cleaner fuels and 4 operational improvements to reduce the diesel emissions of our locomotive fleet. 2 Further detail is outlined in the Operational Efficiency chapter of this Report. 0 FY2010 FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 FY2020 Figures 33 and 34 show that locomotive emissions contribute less than 1% of particulate matter (PM) in the New South Wales Greater Metropolitan Region (GMR). Figure 32: If particulate emissions from diesel Historical and targeted GHG emission intensity reduction. locomotives were halved (at considerable cost), this would reduce PM2.5 and PM10 emissions in the NSW GMR by approximately 0.3% and 0.1% respectively. Therefore it is Aurizon’s view that regulating diesel emission reductions from locomotives delivers minimal benefit to an overall improvement in air quality for NSW, while imposing significant costs on the rail freight sector, the economy Locomotives 0.6%* Locomotives 0.2%* and end customers. Aurizon is working with other rail operators across Australia to develop an industry-based voluntary initiative focussed on this complex issue, including the need for initiatives in relation to air quality to be evidence-based and proportionate. Commercial 2.2% Commercial 2.2% Domestic-commercial 24.7% Domestic-commercial 9.1% Industrial 55.3% Industrial 81.3% Off-road mobile 10.8% Off-road mobile 4.0% On-road mobile 6.5% On-road mobile 3.1% Locomotives 0.6% Locomotives 0.2% Figure 33: Figure 34: PM2.5 in NSW GMR (2008) PM10 in NSW GMR (2008) Sources of PM2.5 GMR 20088. Sources of PM10 GMR 20088. 8 A  dapted from NSW Air Emissions Inventory for the Greater Metropolitan Region in New South Wales 2008, Table ES 4, and Scoping Study. of Potential Measures to Reduce Emissions from New and In-Service Locomotives in NSW and Australia, ENVIRON, 2013, Table 24. NSW GMR PM2.5 emissions NSW GMR PM10 (tonnes/year) FY2016 Sustainability Report  PAGE 33 REDUCING, RE-USING Waste source (tonnes) FY2016 FY2015 Reasons for change AND RECYCLING WASTE Waste generated in 18,615 31,307 Tail-off of concrete sleeper We seek to minimise waste from our operations recycling project, and decrease operations by re-using and recycling in septic waste and recycled timber waste wherever possible. Metal recycling 21,308 23,645 Lower number of rollingstock We are currently finalising the development scrapped and maintenance of a Waste Management Plan to identify depot rationalisation further opportunities to minimise the amount of waste generated by our Concrete sleeper recycling 4,396 13,444 Tail-off of concrete sleeper operations. Table 4 details the waste recycling project generated in FY2016 and the major recycling streams. Table 4: Aurizon waste and recycling data. COMPLIANCE AND REPORTING In FY2016 Aurizon did not incur any monetary fines or sanctions for Location Volume Material non-compliance. Mungunburra Up to 180 tonnes recovered Fertiliser JULIA CREEK DERAILMENT. Table 5: As described in the Safety chapter, Notifiable environmental incidents in FY2016. on 27 December 2015 a derailment occurred on the rail corridor 20 kilometres east of Julia Creek. The service that derailed was an Incitec Pivot Ltd (IPL) A diesel spill of approximately 150 litres CONSERVING AND service travelling to Phosphate Hill from occurred when recovering Aurizon’s PROTECTING BIODIVERSITY Townsville Sun Metals. A diesel locomotive locomotive. This was remediated to the controlled by Aurizon was hauling satisfaction of the DEHP. Work to decant We adopt the principles of ecologically 26 wagons leased by IPL, on a railway line the sulphuric acid and remove the sustainable development for our managed by Queensland Rail Limited rollingstock from the derailment site projects and operations. (QR). The service was carrying was completed on 11 February 2016. approximately 819,000 litres of Final remediation plans for the remaining When planning our projects and concentrated sulphuric acid. work by QR and IPL were submitted to conducting our operations, we seek the satisfaction of the DEHP. to avoid adverse impacts on native The Department of Environment and biodiversity. We do this through Heritage Protection (DEHP) issued a joint implementation of our Environmental clean-up notice to QR, IPL and Aurizon ENVIRONMENTAL INCIDENTS Planning and Assessment Procedure. associated with the recovery and For example, only two years after Environmental notifiable incidents, remediation of the sulphuric acid spill. completion of construction works for which are required to be reported to the An Aurizon Incident Management Team the Wiggins Island Balloon Loop project, regulator, are also reported to the Aurizon was immediately established, meeting annual monitoring of three diverted Board. In FY2016 we had one notifiable daily to assess the situation and mobilise streams has already demonstrated a environmental incident (noted in Table 5), recovery plans that included the safety return to pre-construction ecological representing a 50% improvement on of Aurizon’s people, the environment, conditions. This was achieved by FY2015. assets and the community. establishing riparian vegetation, improving fish habitat quality and preventing cattle grazing. PAGE 34 Delivering for the Long Haul Community Engagement Our community engagement philosophy aims to build long-term positive relationships and legacies in the communities where we operate and where our people live and work. UNDERSTANDING OUR IMPACTS We recognise that our business relies on and interacts with regional, rural and urban communities across Australia. As such, consistent and accountable feedback Level crossings 12 management continues to be an integral Road safety 16 part of our community engagement. In FY2016 we received a total of 218 community concerns, a decrease of 23% on FY2015. Reasons for this Facilities 11 decrease include: Construction Noise 66 impacts 17 continued emphasis on our employees being mindful of our operational Train ops impact on communities 4 Land impacts 11 improved processes in our interactions with landholders Gates the completion of a number of left infrastructure construction projects. open We have improved our performance, with 7 93% of concerns resolved by the end of Rail corridor 30 Others 28 Air quality 16 FY2016 (compared to 66% in FY2015). Table 6 shows the timeline for resolution Figure 35: of community concerns in FY2016. FY2016 Community concerns received. As shown in Figure 35, the majority of the concerns raised in FY2016 related to: Status of enquiry Total 1-3 days 4-10 days >10 days % of total rail noise (mainly sounding of the klaxon or horn) Closed 202 136 35 31 93% rail corridor management In progress 16 0 2 14 7% (such as fencing and vegetation) air quality related issues Total 218 136 37 45 (predominantly coal dust) % of total 62% 17% 21% 100% on-road driver behaviour residual impacts from completed projects. Table 6: FY2016 Complaints performance. We outline our approach to engaging with the community on a number of these issues in this chapter. FY2016 Sustainability Report  PAGE 35 RAIL CORRIDOR MANAGEMENT What is Opacity Monitoring? We make continuous improvements in Opacity is a measure that enables the quantification of the CQCN rail corridor through a regular maintenance program, which seeks to the dust emitted by a passing train. The average opacity improve the integrity and safety of the for a single train is obtained by averaging the opacity rail corridor. We engage with adjacent readings over a three minute interval, starting when landholders to discuss and resolve issues about fencing, vegetation management, the first locomotive passed the monitoring station. fire management and other geological The interval includes the time that the train takes to impacts. fully pass the monitoring station as well as time to record any residual dust. MANAGING RAIL NOISE We seek to minimise noise from the operation of our rollingstock by working collaboratively with industry and government. Our train drivers are regularly monitored MANAGING COAL DUST and assessed on these processes. Noise associated with our activities The rail regulators also undertake We seek to minimise coal dust emissions can result from railway operation, periodic audits of klaxon use. In addition, by working collaboratively with our supply maintenance, construction and depot we investigate all concerns (complaints) chain partners. operations. We seek to manage noise in a received, including those relating to the way that considers community concerns usage of the train klaxon. In FY2016 we received 16 complaints and complies with legal obligations. about air quality through our community We also endeavour to minimise noise contacts. Nine of these related to coal dust. The use of the klaxon (also referred associated with maintenance and In seeking to address these complaints to as the horn or whistle) is the source construction activities. In accordance with we have implemented a number of of the majority of noise complaints. our community engagement commitment world-leading solutions to minimise our However, sounding the klaxon is a of ‘no surprises’, we inform impacted impact on local communities. critical safety requirement that must communities of activities that could be be adhered to by any train service considered noisy. Actions taken on-site travelling on any network and applies CENTRAL QUEENSLAND COAL include locating noisy equipment away 24-hours a day, seven days a week. from residential areas, fitting of noise NETWORK (CQCN). It ensures people or vehicles in the suppression equipment and ensuring that Aurizon operates the CQCN where we vicinity of a level crossing are aware of it is properly maintained, and coordinating work with our supply chain partners to an approaching train. This also applies activity during work hours wherever minimise coal dust emissions through to warning bells at level crossings. practical. profiling and veneering of coal on the top of wagons, improved wagon loading To be effective as a warning, the klaxon practices and coal dust monitoring needs to be above ambient background systems. While the impact of these noise levels. The length of time that a mitigation practices is dependent on klaxon is sounded is stipulated by rail factors such as coal type and climatic access agreements, balancing the need for conditions, through the implementation a safety warning with consideration for of these monitoring and mitigation residents close to the rail line. Additional practices, the coal supply chain has warning may also be required where reduced airborne coal dust emissions activities are occurring on or near the by up to 75%9. rail corridor. 9 Connell Hatch, Final Report, Environmental Evaluation of fugitive dust emissions from coal trains Goonyella, Blackwater and Moura Coal Rail Systems. PAGE 36 Delivering for the Long Haul As part of our ongoing commitment to 20 12 minimise coal dust emissions, we installed Million tonnes hauled (per month) 18 Average exceedances (per month) an opacity monitoring point on each 10 of the four rail systems in the CQCN 16 in agreement with the Queensland 14 8 Department of Environment and Heritage Protection (DEHP) (see Figure 12 50% 37). The DEHP and Aurizon jointly agreed 75% 6 a three minute average reading of 5% 10 opacity as the threshold level at which a 8 4 passing train emits visually noticeable dust. The threshold of 5% opacity represents a 6 100% measurable parameter that triggers an 2 4 action to be taken to investigate and % of veneering installation completed improve airborne dust emissions. 2 0 Jan-13 Mar-13 May-13 Jul-13 Sep-13 Nov-13 Jan-14 Mar-14 May-14 Jul-14 Sep-14 Nov-14 Jan-15 Mar-15 May-15 Jul-15 Sep-15 Nov-15 Jan-16 Mar-16 May-16 Jul-16 Figure 36 shows the rolling 12-months opacity data (exceedances) for the CQCN versus coal hauled. Despite record tonnes on the CQCN, exceedances of the 5% Tonnes hauled Opacity exceedance data opacity level have declined significantly (rolling 12-month) (rolling 12-month) since veneering was completed on all loading stations by mid-2014. Despite this Figure 36: excellent performance we are committed Opacity monitoring data vs. tonnes hauled in the CQCN. to investigating each exceedance of the agreed DEHP opacity reading and working with our supply chain to understand why this has occurred and how it can be remedied. SOUTH WEST SYSTEM, QUEENSLAND Bowen The South West System (SWS) comprises the Western and Metropolitan rail lines NEWLANDS to the Port of Brisbane in Queensland. SYSTEM Collinsville Aurizon has committed, along with the Queensland Resources Council led South Mackay West Systems Users Group (SWUG)10, to an additional 12 months of coal dust monitoring in the SWS. This is part of SWUG’s South West System Coal Dust Moranbah Management Plan, which also includes all three mines in the system voluntarily GOONYELLA SYSTEM introducing veneering and profiling to Dysart reduce coal dust. This monitoring is being undertaken BLACKWATER SYSTEM by independent air quality scientists at Rockhampton the Department of Science, Information Stanwell Blackwater Technology and Innovation (DSITI)11. Bluff Studies to date have demonstrated that, Gladstone on average, coal makes up about 10% of black dust, which also contains soil, soot and black tyre rubber. The studies Moura MOURA SYSTEM also demonstrate that coal dust emissions preand post-veneering were well within Queensland guidelines. Following publication of the initial study, Queensland Health concluded that ‘…for people living along the corridor, the dust concentrations measured during the (2013) investigation are unlikely to result in any additional adverse health effects.’12 Figure 37: CQCN Opacity Monitoring station locations. 10  he South West Users Group comprises coal companies New Hope Group, Yancoal Australia and supply chain service providers Aurizon, Queensland Rail and T Queensland Bulk Handling. 11 DSITI was previously called the Department of Science, Information Technology, Innovation and the Arts (DSITIA). 12 Western – Metropolitan Rail Systems Coal Dust Monitoring Program, Final Report, October 2013. DSITIA. FY2016 Sustainability Report  PAGE 37 HUNTER VALLEY, NEW SOUTH WALES COMMUNITY GIVING HELPING TO PUT AN END We continue to work with our coal supply TO DOMESTIC AND FAMILY The Community Giving Fund was VIOLENCE chain partners on coal dust management established to provide support to our improvements associated with the haulage communities in the areas of Health & Domestic and family violence is a of coal on rail in New South Wales (NSW). Wellbeing, Community Safety, disturbing reality with long-lasting impacts This has included working with other Environment, and Education. This biannual on families, communities and workplaces. operators to provide voluntary reports to round of cash grants awards deserving It has an estimated economic cost of the NSW Environment Protection Authority charities and community groups with approximately $13.6 billion a year in (EPA) on coal wagon doors and the funds of up to $20,000 to deliver critical Australia15. As a community we need to associated design of coal wagons. initiatives and projects in the areas in create an environment where speaking which Aurizon operates. Since 2011, we are out is encouraged and viewed as the right Aurizon was also an industry representative proud to say that we have helped over and respectful thing to do. The size and on the Lower Hunter Reference Group 220 charities and community groups demographic of our workforce has allowed which released its final report in April 201612. around Australia. us to inform a significant group within This study was initiated by the NSW EPA in response to concerns about visible dust Aurizon and the community about the risks In FY2016 the fund provided grants to and consequences, and where support can in the Lower Hunter. The dust deposition 40 organisations. Some of these included: study focussed on identifying the major be reached. sources and composition of larger dust  Orange Sky Laundry. Funding to Aurizon has long been outspoken in particles, visible to the human eye. fit-out a mobile, self-contained, advocating against domestic and family 10-foot shipping container with six violence. For example, our MD & CEO is Sampling was completed over a 12-month commercial laundry machines which period by AECOM, which found that the Deputy Chair of the Queensland can be taken to regional areas to Premier’s Domestic and Family deposited dust measured at 12 sites provide free laundering services to in the Lower Hunter region was below Violence Implementation Council. the homeless, those affected by natural EPA criteria levels. Analysis of 72 dust disasters, and remote Indigenous samples found that soil or rock was communities which otherwise would the primary component, averaging 69%. not have access to clean clothing. Other components were coal 10%, rubber 4% and soot 3%13. WetlandCare Australia. Funding to engage the residents of Maryland, The EPA also released the findings of NSW, in their environmental education another major study which complemented project regarding the protection of the dust deposition study. This Particle water quality and biodiversity at Characterisation Study sampled fine Hexham Swamp, a significant particulates at four key sites and coarse migratory shorebird habitat. particulates at two sites in the Hunter over Esperance Care Services (ECS). a 12-month period. The findings of this Funding to purchase a new freezer study included: to allow ECS to accept and store donations of frozen goods to All sites had similar levels of particles supplement their food hampers across the year except Stockton which for Emergency Relief. had higher levels of fine and coarse particles. In addition, through our Freight Assistance Coarse particles were found to be Program, we have transported food, highest at Stockton due to the fresh sea clothing and books on behalf of the salt and further investigation is being Salvation Army, Red Cross, Lifeline, undertaken to clarify the contribution St Vincent de Paul, Samaritan’s Purse, of coal, which appears to contribute up Food Relief North Queensland, and the to 10% of coarse particles. Anglican Diocese who provide these items to struggling families in Queensland Taken together, the studies show that communities. levels of air particles and dust in the Lower Hunter region are good by world We also regularly donate and raise funds standards, but occasionally particle levels for charities and, as part of our community will spike as a result of industrial or investment program, work with some great seasonal weather patterns. The NSW local, regional and national partners who EPA Chief Executive, Barry Buffier said share our commitment to community that the findings were “a great outcome programs. These include UN Women, for the community”14. the Clontarf Foundation, Australia’s CEO Challenge Darkness to Daylight Challenge We recognise our impacts extend beyond Run, Murri Carnival and the Newcastle the physical influence of our operations Knights. and that we contribute by employing local residents, and purchasing goods and services from local suppliers (as described by our regional Economic Contribution Analysis published in our FY2015 Sustainability Report). We also seek to invest in the long-term future of communities with funds and information campaigns. 13 Lower Hunter Dust Deposition Study Final Report, AECOM, February 2016. 14 NSW EPA Media Release, 27 April 2016: EPA to release findings of Lower Hunter Air Quality Studies. 15 The Cost of Violence Against Women and Their Children, March 2009, The Department of Families, Housing, Community Services and Indigenous Affairs. PAGE 38 Delivering for the Long Haul OUR AWARENESS KEY SOCIAL IMPACT OUTCOMES OF AURIZON’S OF SOCIAL IMPACT INDIGENOUS PRE-EMPLOYMENT PROGRAM In July 2016, Social Scaffolding, a leading Social Impact practitioner Financial benefits. Higher wages and entering a career pathway in Australia, reviewed the impact of with further opportunity for promotion. Aurizon’s Indigenous Employment and Engagement strategies. Personal benefits. Increased wellbeing, self-esteem The Indigenous Pre-Employment Program and being a positive role model in the community. was highly successful, with 15 out of 20 of the participants securing a role with Future opportunities. All interviewed participants stated Aurizon. By investing in the program, Aurizon also delivered shared value for a high regard for the program and willingness to be both the participants (through sustained ambassadors to recruit others. We will continue to review employment), and for our business future opportunities for the program where a suitable (through increased staff retention). Voluntary turnover for Indigenous number of job positions are available and external training employees has also reduced from 11.3% funding can support the program. four years ago to 3.3% in FY2016 and is currently lower than overall voluntary turnover of 5%. As a result, staffing costs such as recruitment, training and other associated business costs should also reduce. “Supporting 20 Indigenous people cultural and environmental outcomes A total investment in the program of from Central Queensland to participate created by an organisation and the $378,000 (including Aurizon and Federal in a pre-employment program is not costs of creating them. Government funding) is estimated by social just good for these new employees scaffolding to create $795,000 worth of and their families, but also makes The Pre-Employment Program, which was value over four years, resulting in an SROI good business sense for Aurizon.” designed and developed as part of ratio of 2.1:1. Aurizon’s Reconciliation Action Plan (RAP), Hugh Foley was undertaken in August to October Therefore, for every $1 invested in the Social Scaffolding 2015. The SROI was developed through program, $2.10 of social value is created. interviews with employees, management, As a result, a small incremental cost for SOCIAL RETURN ON the training organisation and new training and development has created INVESTMENT (SROI) Indigenous employees involved in the a far larger social and economic benefit training. These interviews and comparative to the Indigenous community. Social Scaffolding conducted a condensed data were relied upon to estimate the Social Return on Investment (SROI) impacts and outcomes associated with analysis of Aurizon’s 10-week Indigenous the program. Pre-Employment Program to measure the outcomes for the participants. SROI Aurizon’s investment in this program was is an internationally recognised approximately $120,000 and included Aurizon’s Reconciliation Action methodology that seeks to evaluate the payment of wages to participants. Plan outlines a number of impact of a project, program or policy. At completion of the program 15 Indigenous strategies to promote sustainable SROI is a form of stakeholder-driven women and men were able to secure employment opportunities for evaluation blended with cost-benefit full-time permanent employment with Aboriginal and Torres Strait analysis that seeks to understand and Aurizon. These outcomes are a significant Island People. measure the value of social, economic, contributor to the RAP goals of Aurizon. FY2016 Sustainability Report  PAGE 39 As at 30 June 2016, we had 6,406 employees working across rail operations (75%), Aurizon Network (15%) and support functions (10%). Their collective skills, diversity and experience are central to our ongoing transformation, allowing us to find new and better ways of doing things and enabling us to develop innovative solutions for new and existing customers. PAGE 40 Delivering Delivering for the Long Haul Organisational Capability Our greatest asset is the collective capability of our people to safely and efficiently operate complex supply chains. PEOPLE Customer Excellence: Other benefits include: Enhances employee awareness, Aurizon has been active in growing the understanding and connection with 17% reduction in overtime spend capability of our people through programs our customers and the role they play for national train crew and focused on leadership, people-centred in helping us to deliver our Blueprint. 23% reduction for maintenance change and diversity and inclusion. crew since FY2015 Following extensive consultation 9% reduction in hours spent with employees via culture surveys EMPLOYEE RELATIONS transferring train crew by car to (3,315 employees), leadership profiles train location. In 2015 the Full Bench of the Fair Work and town hall sessions, it became clear Commission decided to grant Aurizon’s that our people desire a values-based, Alongside these changes we are reducing application to terminate 12 expired performance-driven culture that focuses management positions in our operations Enterprise Agreements (EAs). The Full on strategic clarity, shared meaning and functions by flattening the leadership Bench stated in the decision: “Many of effective leadership. As such, we have structure. This will simplify and improve the provisions sought to be removed or sought to ensure our capability program service delivery and ensure accountability varied are not common in most enterprise focuses on both leadership and technical at the regional level. agreements... We do not think the knowledge. changes proposed, objectively viewed, Finally, EAs have also enabled successful involve exploitation or unfairness in the Examples of the enterprise-wide initiatives transition of our employees, such as those terms and conditions of employment being implemented to address some of based at our Redbank maintenance facility, of Aurizon employees.” these findings include the following: which was earmarked to close in June 2017. With the support of the new EAs, This decision paved the way for Aurizon’s The Aurizon Way of Leadership: we were able to sign an agreement with successful negotiation in FY2016 of new A consistent approach Aurizon leaders Progress Rail in August 2016 to ensure it EAs that allow more flexible, modern and take to lead our people and achieve would continue operating with a majority competitive work practices to deliver their full potential. of the current workforce until October efficient services for customers and People Centred Change: Designed 2024. This is a great outcome for those create value for shareholders. For example, to effectively manage and implement employees, the community of Ipswich the implementation of these EAs enables change using diverse and inclusive and for Aurizon. us to more readily adapt to changes in teams. the market. This was demonstrated by Team Challenge: Encourages our ability to right-size our workforce in employees to share ideas on reducing response to the closure of Queensland cost and improving the running of the Nickel’s Yabulu refinery. business (in FY2016 it generated over 90 initiatives for localised improvements, which has led to over $1.8 million in benefit). Team challenge — Aurizon ‘Ride Share’ initiative Each week many Aurizon employees are required to travel to and from an airport to take flights as part of their job. As a part of the Team Challenge, a group of graduates developed a process for matching passengers on the same flight and auto-generating emails to encourage them to share taxis or hire cars. Employees from across the Company have embraced the ‘Ride Share’ concept and to date approximately 300 people are sharing transportation each month. This is a great example of how small ideas can make a big difference to the Company’s bottom line. FY2016 Sustainability Report  PAGE 41 DIVERSITY TRANSITION TO OPERATIONS AND MD & CEO ROTATION PROGRAMS We believe a company should celebrate the diversity of perspectives, backgrounds and The Transition to Operations program was experiences of its workforce. By doing so developed to provide a pathway from we strengthen our organisational capability, employment in corporate areas through to avoid ‘group think’ and ensure we reflect the roles in operational leadership. Since broader marketplace and society in which inception, eleven women have transitioned we operate. The following section includes into Operations after rotating through examples of diversity and inclusion various roles over an 18-month period. initiatives we implemented this year. To develop female leaders, the CEO Rotation program also enables high-potential women GENDER INCLUSION to shadow the MD & CEO for a four-month period and be part of the Management In June 2014 we announced the bold target Leadership Team. The program is now of increasing the number of women in the in its fourth year. workforce to 30% by the end of 2019. If you don’t speak up, people assume During FY2016 we have increased the you agree. That’s why we ask everyone percentage of women in our workforce ALLin INCLUSION at Aurizon to speak up against inequality and let others know if their attitude or to 17.4%. This is as a result of a number of comments are inappropriate, offensive ALLin is our lesbian, gay, bisexual, initiatives, including mandating diverse or simply not on. Stand Up, Speak Up transgender, intersex and queer candidates for short lists and has led to for yourself and your workmates. Help (LGBTIQ) network for employees and us deliver a respectful, supportive and women accounting for approximately allied supporters. Executive Vice President inclusive environment for all employees. half of all new hires in FY2016. We have Michael Carter is the executive sponsor Support the campaign on also surpassed our targets for female for the network. In FY2016, ALLin My Sites #StandUpSpeakUp Non-Executive Directors (three out of eight undertook a number of initiatives to An initiative of Aurizon’s against a target of at least one, as of 25 promote a safe and respectful workplace Male Champions of Change. July 2016) and women in the Management where everyone can bring their whole Leadership Team (32.1% against a target of self to work, including: 31%). The employee datasheet contained in this Report includes detailed breakdown  becoming a sponsor of Out for “Platinum partner Aurizon of FY2016 statistics on diversity profiles Australia, a not-for-profit organisation launches bold new parenting including age, gender, employment type that seeks to support and mentor and remuneration comparisons. initiative.” aspiring LGBTIQ professionals as they navigate their way through the early UN Women National Committee STAND UP, SPEAK UP stages of their career Australia | Feb 26, 2016 Gender inclusion is not just about  rolling out 1,000+ rainbow laces to increasing the percentage of women operations employees to show their at Aurizon, we also need to ensure we visible support to the LGBTIQ “Aurizon puts women on track have an inclusive workplace culture. community and encourage everyone to bring their whole self to work. with paid parental leave To this end we launched an internal scheme.” campaign in February 2016 called ‘Stand Aurizon Business Analyst Rhiannon Kop The Australian | Feb 27, 2016 Up, Speak Up’. This campaign seeks to won OUT Role Model of the Year in May encourage all employees to ask ‘What do 2016 at the Australian Workplace Equality you mean by that?’ whenever they hear Index Awards (AWEI) for her outstanding comments or see actions that demean, contribution as a role model in the LGBTIQ “Is this the world’s best boss? belittle or are disrespectful in any way, community and in her role as chair of the Rail company CEO vows to particularly in regard to gender. It is a ALLin Network. respectful way to challenge the person pay mothers 150% of their who may have made the comment salary if their partner stays consciously or subconsciously, and is home with the kids.” an immediate and constructive resolution Daily Mail Australia | 2 March 2016 to a potentially difficult situation. SHARED CARE “Australian company gives Launched in February 2016, Shared Care new mums 150% of their gives Aurizon families a new choice when considering who takes on caring salary if their partner stays responsibilities for their child in the first at home with the kids.” year. Shared Care provides a financial incentive based on ‘half-pay’ for a partner The Telegraph UK | 2 March 2016 to take a leave of absence to stay at home and care for their child in their first year, allowing the mother to return to work “Rail giant Aurizon’s innovative full-time. This initiative is also available to same sex couples and single parents. ‘Shared Care’ policy The initiative is the first of its kind in challenges cultural norms!” Australia. We are very proud to lead by Senator the Hon Michaelia Cash, example in changing the way our society address to the National Press Club thinks about childcare and workplace on 8 March 2016 flexibility. Adjacent is a collection of media coverage of the initiative’s launch. PAGE 42 Delivering for the Long Haul INDIGENOUS INCLUSION AWARDS Indigenous economic participation INTERNAL “Today is about remains a national challenge with Indigenous unemployment rates presently Aurizon celebrates the achievements of reflecting on and its high performing individuals and teams three times higher than that of nonrecognising that the land through an Excellence Awards program Indigenous. It is the responsibility of all each year. The Award’s categories are on which these machines Australian companies to increase the representation and integration of reflective of the Company’s values — will operate is the Safety, People, Integrity, Customer and Indigenous Australians in the workforce. Excellence. homeland of the At Aurizon we take this responsibility Darumbal People. very seriously and we seek to build on a history of employing Indigenous EXTERNAL At Aurizon we believe Australians as we work toward We have been recognised with numerous in the importance of reconciliation. respect for Indigenous diversity awards in FY2016, including: In the past year we recruited 52 history, cultures and August 2015 new Indigenous employees and the Engineers Australia — customs, and we are percentage of Indigenous employees increased from 3.3% to 4.3% of the Most Outstanding Company committed to building in Gender Diversity workforce. While we are pleased to stronger relationships report on this progress, like many in the local communities others, we have much more work to do. December 2015 Our improvements have been based AHRI Dame Quentin Bryce AD CVO — where we operate.” on the implementation of our first Awards for Gender Equity in the Workplace Reconciliation Action Plan (RAP) Alex Kummant in November 2015. The RAP outlines March 2016 EVP Network how Aurizon will contribute to UN Women’s Empowerment Priniciples — Reconciliation in Australia and how Extract from Aurizon Media Release, CEO Award for Cultural Change for we can make a tangible difference Indigenous culture celebrated on Empowerment Aurizon’s high-tech machines, in supporting continued employment 10 May 2016. opportunities for Australia’s First Nation Peoples. March 2016 Queensland Resources Council — Excellence in Diversity Programs INDIGENOUS REFERENCE GROUP and Performance Our Indigenous Reference Group (IRG) was established in July 2015. This group May 2016 comprises a broad range of people from Queensland Reconciliation Awards — across our organisation, including Business Category Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander employees. The group assist in shaping May 2016 our Indigenous Strategy and suggests AWEI Bronze Tier Employer — areas for improvement and new ideas. LGBTI Workplace Inclusion Members of the IRG also managed the Indigenous Pre-employment program referred to in the Community Engagement chapter. INDIGENOUS ART ON TRACK MACHINES — ROCKHAMPTON To acknowledge the Indigenous culture of Central Queensland’s Darumbal People, we commissioned Indigenous artwork to be emblazoned across Aurizon’s new high-tech fleet of track machines. In May 2016, local Aurizon employees and more than 20 Darumbal elders attended a naming ceremony at Rockhampton Station where the two new track machines were on display (Figure 38). The machines were named ‘Yugu Nunthi’ meaning ‘water lily country’. Figure 38: Track machine with Indigenous artwork. FY2016 Sustainability Report  PAGE 43 Regulatory Environment We seek to play an active role in encouraging infrastructure investment and efficient use of Australia’s supply chains. WHY IS REGULATION UT5 is expected to provide Aurizon below WHY IS REGULATION IMPORTANT TO AURIZON? rail network infrastructure (Network) with IMPORTANT TO AUSTRALIA? an appropriate model that has the foresight All of our revenue and many of our costs to consider future risks and opportunities The regulation of the rail sector and are directly or indirectly impacted by including: trade underpins Australia’s economic regulation in Australia, from economic competitiveness and ability to compete to environmental and safety regulation.  expected continuation of record globally, so it is critical that regulation Last year we explained the major aspects system volumes supports efficiency, competition and of economic regulation and the expected  continuation of sustainable access to export markets. As Australia release of the updated Access Undertaking maintenance and capex regimes to has geographically dispersed population (UT4) that determines our regulated ensure safety compliance and improve centres, and is the leading exporter returns for the Central Queensland Coal system efficiency globally in the two largest seaborne dry Network (CQCN).  a WACC outcome that supports bulk markets (iron ore and coal), the cost ongoing investment. of transport and elimination of any In April 2016 the Queensland Competition barriers to trade are critical to Authority (QCA) released its Final Decision. We believe the process of UT5 presents Australia’s competitiveness. Aurizon Network has communicated it will Aurizon with a clear opportunity to move forward with this decision in light of demonstrate our strength in engagement For the rail sector, regulation is important the current economic climate and in order with a broad spectrum of external where it is prohibitive to duplicate rail to provide certainty for the industry and stakeholders. These include: infrastructure and there are few stakeholders. Notwithstanding this alternatives. Rail is also different to acceptance, Aurizon will actively seek  customers requiring fair and other types of regulated infrastructure, to ensure future processes are undertaken efficient pricing for example telecommunications, in accordance with the original intent of as operating rail services requires  operators who desire access to the QCA Act. Aurizon believes this would the direct use of the infrastructure. a safe and reliable rail network result in more commercial and economic outcomes for the industry and the State.  regulators supporting a transparent When regulation is well designed and A summary of the key UT4 outcomes and timely process to determine an appropriately applied it can deliver optimal over the period (FY2014 – FY2017) appropriate return reflecting costs supply chains for users and incentives for is provided below: and risks investment to improve supply chain  local and state Governments who capacity. Where rail competes with road, Maximum Allowable Revenue (MAR) support on-going investment and regulation is also important in achieving averaging approximately $1 billion growth. a balance between economic, per year. environmental and social impacts QCA forecast volumes averaging and to enable the necessary scale approximately 220 million tonnes to reduce transport costs. (mt) per year. Weighted Average Cost of Capital (WACC) of 7.17% generating an average return on capital of approximately $383 million per year based on forecast Regulated Asset Base (RAB) valuation. “Quite simply, the future of Australia’s economic Revenue deferral for Wiggins Island prosperity — and local jobs — is highly dependent Rail Project (WIRP) volumes not on strong ongoing trading relationships.” expected to rail during the period. Since UT4, a number of customer Lance Hockridge consultations and briefings were held ChAFTA forum September 2015. on UT5 (which is intended to cover the period FY2018 to FY2021). It is currently anticipated to be in place during 2017. PAGE 44 Delivering for the Long Haul SUPPLY CHAIN INTEGRATION and rail operators. Based on experience Steering Committee and Abbott Point in the CQCN, Aurizon believes common User Group, contributing its expertise While Australia’s bulk supply chains are operation of both above rail and below to improve supply chain performance. among the world’s best, this advantage is rail, with appropriate targeted regulation, Aurizon believes that clear communication subject to international competition. At a can provide benefits to users. around scheduling and planning is global level, most bulk rail operations are imperative to optimise supply chain vertically integrated, which means that Another key aspect of supply chain outcomes for all users. above and below rail work together under integration is coordinating transportation common ownership or control to consider (track access and rolling stock availability) Since FY2012, Aurizon’s productivity joint impacts on the total cost of rail with port capacity to help meet demand gains and active support of supply chain services to end customers. In Australia, with optimised throughput. To enable integration has contributed to a 36% it’s more typical for the operation of this coordination, Aurizon Network increase in coal volumes and a reduction multi-user rail infrastructure to be participates in supply chain groups in below rail rates in real terms. separated between network providers including the Capricornia Coal Chain ENABLING MODE SHIFT To ensure sustainable transport of freight to develop a consistent set of economic within Australia, efforts should be made principles to be applied to road freight Mode shift (from road to rail) is needed to to limit the associated impacts on the charging and investment reform. cope with the growth in the national land environment and society. Rail freight has The transition to competitive neutrality freight task as the volume of freight is significant potential to reduce carbon between road and rail is important for expected to grow by 80% between 2010 emissions, avoid higher accident costs promoting effective competition, as well and 203016. and limit the extent of congestion in urban as improving productivity and innovation, centres. To do this, urgent reform is also and maximising consumer benefits. By contrast, rail is unable to effectively needed to help rail achieve the scale to compete on equal terms with road freight effectively compete with road. In addition, Aurizon has also taken its due to separate and inconsistent systems own proactive steps to enable mode of regulation and disparity between road Aurizon strongly supports the decision shift and the alleviation of congestion in pricing and rail access charges. Rail access of the Council of Australian Governments metropolitan Sydney. In August, we ran charges are determined on a transparent (COAG) to transition to independent price our first port shuttle from Port Botany and cost-reflective basis. By contrast, the regulation of heavy vehicle charges by to our intermodal terminal at Enfield. current road freight pricing regime for heavy 2017-18. We are working co-operatively We plan to continue to grow this rail vehicles does not provide a clear and direct with Federal and State Governments, sector for our customers, as well as for relationship with the costs of allowing heavy as well as key industry associations the community of Sydney. vehicles access to major road freight routes. such as the Australian Logistics Council, REDUCING BARRIERS In a period where some countries are The ratification and implementation of TO TRADE beginning to reassess their trading the China-Australia Free Trade Agreement relationships, Australia should be seen as (ChAFTA) in December 2015 was a The movement of goods, services and a champion for the continuation of trade significant achievement for advocates capital has been essential for the liberalisation. Free trade agreements (FTAs) of free trade and facilitated the following development of Asian economies and such as those recently ratified with Japan, reduction in coal import tariffs: Australian export industries. Aurizon is South Korea, the United States and China heavily influenced by international trade are key to providing a more competitive  Metallurgical coal: 3% tariff with over 90% of our transport volumes platform for Australian exports, better eliminated on 20 December 2015. destined for export. As such, any changes access to lower cost inputs for business  Thermal coal: 6% tariff to be eliminated to the rules and terms of trading can have and choice for consumers. Similarly, on 1 January 2017. a profound effect on living standards of foreign direct investment has been a critical Asian economies and Aurizon’s operations. factor in expanding the productive capacity Agreements such as this accentuate the of Australian agricultural, mining and benefits of pursuing trade openness for processing industries with heavy financial Australia, and demonstrate the benefits yet involvement of end customers. to be gained through similar FTAs under negotiation with India and Indonesia. MANAGING ENVIRONMENT, Aurizon believes that voluntary industry These principles are consistent with the HEALTH AND SAFETY codes may be an appropriate first step, 2007 Council of Australian Governments REGULATION but recognises that in some cases regulatory (COAG) agreement on Best Practice action may be adopted where it is Regulation. Regulation is often the means by demonstrably required. While it can be which governments consider societal an effective safety net, it should not Finally, when regulation is applied it expectations and industry’s social license unintentionally constrain activities or impose must ensure national consistency of to operate. Aurizon is committed to unnecessary costs. Regulatory decisions systems, standards and processes or working with governments to reduce should be fully informed by the ability to ‘harmonisation’ to reduce the regulatory environmental, health and safety risks to incentivise the desired outcomes based on: burden where appropriate. While progress our communities, particularly coal dust, is being made, Aurizon still encounters  evidence-based decision making what it views as unnecessary regulatory air quality, noise and level crossing incidents. The Environmental Management  being proportionate to the differences across, and within, and Community Engagement chapters demonstrated risks state boundaries in Australia that of this Report set out a number of  delivering cost–effective outcomes continue to create inefficiencies for relevant examples. for the impacted industries and the the rail industry nationally. overall community. 16 Freightline 1 — Australian freight transport overview, BITRE 2014. FY2016 Sustainability Report  PAGE 45 Governance at Aurizon The Board and management are responsible for governance at Aurizon. GOVERNANCE AT AURIZON The MD & CEO is responsible for: District and Local Safety Improvement Teams are established in all key regions to BOARD AND COMMITTEES  developing and implementing coordinate best practice safety initiatives, business strategies communicate lessons learnt and ensure our All members of the Aurizon Board are safety message is consistent across all  delivering targeted performance independent non-executive directors, levels and locations of the organisation. other than the MD & CEO.  building our corporate culture to support business objectives. Communities of Competence help to The Board is responsible for: deliver effective outcomes on activities setting strategic goals and values SUSTAINABILITY GOVERNANCE deemed critical by the CSHE Committee. In FY2016, our Communities of o  verseeing Aurizon’s governance SUSTAINABILITY STEERING Competence included environment, framework (including ensuring we COMMITTEE trackside safety, road safety, isolation and are compliant with the ASX Corporate lockout, derailment prevention and signals Governance Council’s Corporate Aurizon’s Sustainability Steering passed at danger. Governance Principles and Committee provides strategic direction Recommendations) in relation to sustainability, assessment of key trends and risks, and ensuring RISK MANAGEMENT monitoring performance. appropriate sustainability reporting At Aurizon we promote a risk-aware The Charter of the Board, and each of the across the organisation. The Committee culture in all decision-making through the current Board Committees, is available is comprised of senior executives from application of high-quality, integrated risk on our website, as are Aurizon’s Corporate each of our business functions. analysis and management. Governance Statement, and policies and procedures on the selection and As the Chair of this Committee, the Vice The Enterprise Risk Management appointment of directors. These are President Strategy has overall responsibility Framework (Framework), which is based available at: www.aurizon.com.au/aboutus/ for building a cohesive and coordinated on the internationally recognised standard governance. sustainability capability across Aurizon. for risk management (AS/NZS ISO 31000:2009), is a critical component The Board delegates authority to the SAFETY, HEALTH AND of this. MD & CEO for the day-to-day management ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT of Aurizon. The delegation of authority is The Framework demonstrates the reviewed annually and forms part of our Aurizon has a Central Safety, Health and commitment of the Board and Corporate Governance Framework. Environment Committee (CSHE Management to effective risk Committee) to manage and monitor management as a key element of Aurizon’s strategy and goals for safety, business success and sustainability. MANAGEMENT health and environment. The CSHE The MD & CEO leads a monthly CEO Committee consists of management and Forum attended by the Executive meets monthly to review performance, Committee, which addresses operational policies and procedures, supported by: and financial performance as well as any other strategic matters requiring Executive  District Safety Improvement Teams Committee attention.  Function and Sub-Function CSHE Committees  Communities of Competence. PAGE 46 Delivering for the Long Haul Figure 45: Our annual sustainability process OUR SUSTAINABILITY PROCESS Our annual sustainability process sits within a cycle that begins and ends with internal Stakeholder and external stakeholder engagement engagement (Figure 39): Engage with stakeholders through a combination of direct discussions, surveys and literature reviews. Identify/ Sustainability Sustainability confirm Identify and confirm our sustainability initiatives Report sustainability priorities. priorities Report to the CEO Forum and Board. Integrate findings into our business planning processes and our implementation of initiatives which will contribute to improved Sustainability sustainability performance. business planning Central to the sustainability process is our development of this public Report. We are committed to producing this Report on an annual basis in order to: Figure 39: Our annual sustainability process. define and discuss the issues we perceive as being important to long-term business sustainability APPROACH TO INVESTMENT UNITED NATION’S highlight the sustainability initiatives we have undertaken and our planned AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENT GLOBAL COMPACT initiatives to build on past performance Aurizon’s business is capital intensive and In January 2016 Aurizon committed provide a platform for us to engage there are long lead times to procure to the UN Global Compact (UNGC). with our key stakeholders, both during rollingstock and develop new We support the 10 principles of the the development of the Report and as infrastructure. As such, a disciplined UNGC on human rights, labour, part of our ongoing engagement approach to investment and capital environment and anti-corruption. processes. management is essential to retain our long-term financial sustainability. We are committed to making the UNGC Stakeholder feedback provided through and its principles part of the strategy, our stakeholder management and The fundamentals of our investment culture and day-to-day operations of reporting cycle is presented to the approach did not change in FY2016. our company, and to engage in Sustainability Steering Committee, We continue to have a specific process collaborative projects which advance Executive Committee and Board. in place to assess all potential investment the broader development goals of opportunities. This includes assessment the UN, particularly the 17 Sustainability We have made some important advances against our Enterprise Risk Management Development Goals. in our sustainability reporting over the last Framework. few years. For example: We have policies that support the Capital is deployed into long-life assets UNGC, including: our FY2014 Report was second following assessment by various specialists runner-up for ‘Best First Time Report’ who conduct wide-ranging research,  Human Rights Policy at the 2016 Corporate Responsibility analysis and forecasting in order to assess  Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption Reporting Awards, the only global the opportunity and associated risks. Policy annual awards for sustainability reporting  Environmental Policy EXTERNAL ASSURANCE Australian Council of Superannuation  Code of Conduct. Investors confirmed Aurizon as a Aurizon’s FY2016 National Greenhouse 5/5 ‘leading’ reporter for 2016 — As signatories to the principles of the Gas and Energy Report submission to the the second consecutive year we have UNGC, this Report serves as our active Clean Energy Regulator, including Scope held this rating level UNGC Communication on Progress 1 and 2 emissions, was assured by GHD. on implementation of the principles and we were added to the Morgan Stanley A copy of the assurance statement is support for its broader development Composite Index (MSCI) for available on our website. objectives. sustainability in 2016 and have improved our rating from BBB to We intend to seek external assurance of AA over the last two years our Sustainability Report on a two-year cycle, based on advice regarding best we were also accepted in the industry practice from the Australian FTSE4Good Global Index and Council of Superannuation Investors. FTSE4Good Australia 30 for the first time in 2016 we were named an ABA100 Winner for Sustainability in The Australia Business Awards 2016. FY2016 Sustainability Report  PAGE 47 TAX AT AURIZON MESSAGE FROM THE CFO On 3 May 2016, the Federal Government released the Board of Taxation’s final Tax Transparency Code. FY2015 FY2016 As an ASX listed company predominately operating in Australia, and an industry leader, Aurizon understands the importance of tax transparency. Aurizon has voluntarily adopted the Tax Transparency Code to demonstrate our commitment to paying our fair share of tax and providing additional information to Corporate income tax22% the public regarding Aurizon’s tax affairs. Employer payroll taxes (Payroll Tax and Fringe Benefits Tax)8% Goods and Services Tax (GST) Net of Recoveries24% This year’s Sustainability Report includes: Fuel Excise Paid Net of Recoveries1%  a summary of taxes paid and collected Employee payroll taxes (PAYG-Withholding and Superannuation)43% Other miscellaneous taxes1%  an overview of Aurizon’s approach to tax strategy, tax policy and governance Figure 40: Taxes collected and paid by Aurizon (indicative only).  an explanation of the tax disclosures in the financial statements. “Aurizon has a positive, open and TAX STRATEGY, TAX POLICY ENHANCING SHAREHOLDER VALUE constructive relationship with the ATO AND GOVERNANCE THROUGH PRINCIPLED TAX PLANNING and is now pleased to provide additional transparency to other external stakeholders Aurizon’s tax strategy focuses on: Aurizon’s tax strategy aims to enhance to assist with their understanding of shareholder value through principled tax accurate and timely tax compliance planning. Broadly, principled tax planning Aurizon’s tax profile and how it compares and reporting includes: to other large ASX listed Australian corporates.” enhancing shareholder value through principled tax planning ensuring operations, transactions and Keith Neate funding are tax efficient building a positive and transparent EVP and CFO relationship with the ATO. utilising tax concessions where available ensuring Aurizon makes appropriate This strategy is implemented through tax elections when given a choice TAXES PAID AND COLLECTED Aurizon’s Board approved Tax Policy, under the tax law Aurizon pays various taxes to Federal, CFO approved Tax Corporate Principle ensuring tax positions adopted by State and local governments and collects and Aurizon’s broader Enterprise Risk Aurizon are in accordance with various tax payments on behalf of Federal Management Framework. parliamentary intention, guidance and State governments. provided by the ATO and do not The Aurizon Tax Team has primary breach published safe harbour limits. Australian corporate income tax represents responsibility for implementing Aurizon’s the largest component of taxes paid by tax strategy, with oversight by the CFO, Aurizon’s Tax Policy prohibits undertaking Aurizon. Corporate income tax is payable the Audit, Governance and Risk transactions for the specific purpose of in instalments throughout the income year, Management Committee and the Board. obtaining a tax benefit. The Aurizon with a balancing payment made in Tax Team collaborates with Aurizon’s December following the end of the income ACCURATE AND TIMELY TAX businesses to identify and mitigate year to reflect the final income tax liability for COMPLIANCE AND REPORTING any tax risks. that income year. The corporate income tax represented in Figure 40 reflects taxes paid The Aurizon Tax Team is responsible for Tax positions adopted by Aurizon are in respect of the income year, rather than identifying and complying with Aurizon’s considered by at least two qualified tax taxes actually paid during the income year. tax obligations, including lodging returns professionals, with material positions and making tax payments on time. verified with external independent advice. As demonstrated in Figure 40, taxes collected in respect of employees Confirmation of accurate and timely tax represents the largest component of taxes compliance and reporting is provided to BUILDING A POSITIVE AND collected by Aurizon on behalf of the the CFO and Board. TRANSPARENT RELATIONSHIP Federal government. This includes Pay WITH THE ATO As You Go Withholding from employees’ salary and wages and superannuation Aurizon actively manages its relationship contributions for employees. with the ATO to foster transparency, taking a ‘no surprises’ approach and Figure 40 excludes a number of taxes ensuring the ATO is aware of all which are considered immaterial for significant tax positions and transactions. Aurizon, including (but not limited to) stamp duty, customs duty, withholding Aurizon voluntarily meets with the ATO taxes, taxes paid to foreign governments, bi-annually as part of our commitment and taxes paid by controlled Australian to full disclosure and building a positive, entities which do not form part of the collaborative working relationship with Aurizon income tax consolidated group. the ATO. PAGE 48 Delivering for the Long Haul INCOME TAX FY2016 FY2015 The information below has been derived $m $m from the audited financial statements Current tax 135 112 prepared by Aurizon for FY2016. Deferred tax (14) 119 Aurizon’s financial statements reflect Aurizon’s Australian corporate income Total income tax expense 121 231 tax position (applying the 30% corporate tax rate). Any income tax attributable to Underlying profit before tax 721 835 overseas operations is negligible. Significant items (primarily impairments) 528 0 Australian tax law and Australian Statutory profit before tax 193 835 accounting standards have different rules in respect of the timing of recognition Tax at Australian tax rate of 30% (2015: 30%) 58 251 of income and expenses. Under the accounting standards, differences between Tax effect of amounts which are not (taxable) deductible in calculating taxable income: accounting and tax rules are classified as: Research and development (2) (2) temporary differences — these Other 67 (4) differences reverse over time Adjustments for tax of prior periods (2) (14) non-temporary differences — these are permanent differences that do not Income tax expense 121 231 reverse over time or temporary differences that do not meet the Temporary differences: recognition criteria under the Provisions / accruals (7) 3 accounting standards. Customer contracts (13) (13) The accounting standards require Aurizon Property, plant and equipment 33 (119) to calculate income tax expense, which Other 1 10 includes a current tax component and a deferred tax component. The current tax Income tax payable 135 112 component represents the expected tax liability for the income year. The deferred Table 7: tax component represents taxes to be paid Reconciliation of accounting profit to income tax payable. or deductions available in future income years. The deferred tax component is recognised as a net deferred tax asset (future deductions available) or a net FY2016 FY2015 deferred tax liability (future tax payable) Underlying Profit Before Tax (PBT) $721m $835m on the balance sheet. Significant Items (impairments etc) $528m Nil RECONCILIATION OF ACCOUNTING Statutory PBT $193m $835m PROFIT TO INCOME TAX PAYABLE Statutory Income Tax Expense $121m $231m Table 7 provides a reconciliation of Statutory Effective Tax Rate 62.10% 27.60% Aurizon’s accounting profit before tax to Underlying Income Tax Expense $211m $231m income tax expense and income tax payable. Income tax expense is calculated Underlying Effective Tax Rate 29.30% 27.60% as the accounting profit before tax multiplied by the applicable tax rate, Table 8: adjusted for non-temporary differences. Aurizon’s effective income tax rate. Income tax payable is calculated as the accounting profit before tax multiplied by the applicable tax rate, adjusted for EFFECTIVE INCOME TAX RATE Aurizon’s (underlying) effective tax rate non-temporary and temporary differences. for FY2016 of 29.3% is less than the The Australian accounting standards 30% Australian corporate tax rate. define effective tax rate as the income tax The key adjustment in Aurizon’s tax This is primarily due to the research and expense for the income year, divided by calculation is for temporary differences development tax incentive which operates the accounting profit before tax. arising from the different accounting to reduce the tax payable by Aurizon Aurizon’s effective income tax rate and tax treatment of fixed asset related by 10% of the eligible R&D expenditure is outlined in Table 8. costs. This is primarily due to accelerated identified for the income year. fixed asset tax depreciation and is There were a number of significant items common for entities operating in a For FY2016, the statutory effective tax (impairments) recognised for accounting capital intensive environment. rate calculated is significantly above purposes in FY2016. Impairments are 30% due to the impairment of the generally only recognised for tax purposes Aquila investment. The impairment of when Aurizon effectively disposes of the the Aquila investment does not yet meet asset, and therefore normally represent the requirements under the accounting timing differences between accounting and standards for the recognition of a deferred tax. Accordingly, it is necessary to calculate tax asset and is currently recorded as a an underlying effective tax rate in order to non-temporary difference. ‘normalise’ effective tax rate. FY2016 Sustainability Report  PAGE 49 Employee datasheet EMPLOYMENT PROFILE INJURY BY LOCATION General workforce information. State LTIs TRIs* Our total headcount as at 30 June 2016 is 6,406 employees. New South Wales 0 1 Queensland 0 43 Male 85.9% Female 14.1% South Australia 0 0 Male 81.7% Victoria 0 0 Female 18.3% 5,042 Western Australia 0 3 860 *46 TRIs were male and 1 TRI was female. 60 376 Male 87.2% Table 12: LTI and TRI by state and gender. Male 93.3% Female 12.8% Female 6.7% 68 Male 5,293 82.6% Male 75% Female 1,113 17.4% Female 25% 891 1,462 1,688 1,877 488 Total employees 6,406 1,740 AGE PROFILE OF OUR WORKFORCE 1,421 Category Number Percentage 1,068 Under 30 years 891 13.9% 30-50 years 3,150 49.2% Over 50 years 2,365 36.9% 590 Total 6,406 100% Table 9: Employees by age category. 474 WORKFORCE DIVERSITY 301 394 267 137 14 <20-29 30-39 40-49 50-59 >60 Board of Directors (incl. MD & CEO) FY2016 FY2015 Total number 8* 9 Male Female Percentage female representation 37.5% 22.2% Figure 41: Workforce by age and gender. Percentage over 50 62.5% 88.9% Table 10: Board of Directors composition. VOLUNTARY TURNOVER * Ms Kate Vidgen was appointed as the eighth director on 25 July 2016. Gender FY2016 FY2015 Diversity group FY2016 FY2015 Male 4.8% 5.8% Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander 4.3% 3.3% Female 6.3% 7.2% Non-English speaking background 5.8% 5.6% Table 13: Voluntary employee turnover rate. Self-reported disability 2.8% 2.9% Female representation 17.4% 15.3% Table 11: Employees by diversity group. PAGE 50 Delivering for the Long Haul WORKFORCE BY EMPLOYMENT TYPE Of our 6,406 employees, 82% are covered by collective bargaining agreements. Employment type Male total Total% Female total Total% Total Permanent full-time 5,014 84.8% 901 15.2% 5,915 Permanent part-time 19 17.3% 91 82.7% 110 Fixed term full-time 208 67.1% 102 32.9% 310 Fixed term part-time 4 50.0% 4 50.0% 8 Casual 49 77.8% 14 22.2% 63 Total 5,294 82.6% 1,112 17.4% 6,406 Table 14: Employees by employment type. WORKFORCE BY EMPLOYMENT CATEGORY The Executive Committee is supported by our Executive Leadership Team (ELT) and Management Leadership Team (MLT). Collectively, these groups include all senior leaders within Aurizon. Accordingly, ‘Senior management’ in Table 15 below, refers to all members of our Executive Committee, ELT and MLT. Category Number % Female % Minority* % <30 yrs % 30-50 yrs % >50 yrs Senior management 85 30.6% 5.9% 0.0% 75.3% 24.7% Management 858 16.0% 8.2% 4.5% 63.3% 32.2% Non-management 5,463 17.4% 12.6% 15.6% 50.5% 33.9% *Minority includes Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islanders, employees from non-English speaking background and employees with self-reported disability. Table 15: Workforce by employment category. REMUNERATION Aurizon undertakes an annual gender pay gap analysis and, in accordance with the Workplace Gender Equality Act 2012 (Cth) (WGEA), submits a workplace profile and reporting questionnaire each year including a report on our gender pay analysis. Our gender pay gap analysis is undertaken in accordance with WGEA methodology. In addition to this report, Aurizon conducts deeper analysis where a gender pay gap exists and compares like-for-like roles based on experience, tenure and length of time in the role. Table 16 illustrates Aurizon’s gender pay gap using the remuneration ratios for female-to-male employees by employment category*. Overall, our gender pay gap for management remained the same as last year. The composition of our ELT (comprised of six men and one woman in FY2016) continues to have an impact on the remuneration ratio of Senior management. A non-management ratio is also affected by an increase in the percentage of women in entry level roles, such as apprentices and junior engineers. Over time, it is expected that this pay gap will reduce as their qualifications and experience support higher levels of remuneration. FY2016 FY2015 Category Remuneration ratio Remuneration ratio women : men women : men Senior management 0.85 0.85 Management 0.96 0.96 Non-management 0.88 0.87 Table 16: Remuneration ratio by employment category. *T he ratio per employee category is calculated as the annualised average full-time employee total remuneration. Total remuneration includes fixed remuneration and any additional benefits whether payable directly or indirectly, in cash or in a form other than cash, such as bonus payments (including performance pay, excluding long-term incentives), superannuation, discretionary pay, overtime and site allowance. FY2016 Sustainability Report  PAGE 51 Glossary 2DS EA NDC Scope 2 Emissions 2 Degree Scenario Enterprise Agreement Nationally Determined Emissions that result from the Contributions generation of purchased or Above rail EAF acquired electricity, heating, Rollingstock and associated Electric Arc Furnace NETCON cooling and steam consumed by parts and components method of steelmaking using Aurizon’s network condition the organisation electricity asset monitoring program APEX SPAD Advanced Planning and EBIT NPS Signals Passed at Danger. Execution Operational Earnings Before Interest and Tax New Policies Scenario Reflects an instance in which a technology EBIT Margin ntk train has entered a section of ASX Underlying earnings before Net tonne kilometre — unit the track without the correct Australian Stock Exchange interest and tax divided by total of measure representing the authority revenue and other income movement over a distance of ATO SROI one kilometre of one tonne of Australian Taxation Office EPA Social Return on Investment contents excluding the weight Environmental Protection ATSB of the locomotive and wagons TO Authority Australian Transport Safety Trip Optimiser Operating Ratio or OR Board EVP 1-EBIT Margin, expressed as TRI Executive Vice President Below rail a percentage Total Recordable Injuries Track, electric infrastructure, FMG PACE TRIFR signalling and associated rail Fortescue Metals Group Possession Aligner and Capacity Total Recordable Injury infrastructure of the regulated FMT Evaluator Frequency Rate Central Queensland Coal Freight Management Network PP&E Turnover Transformation Property, Plant and Equipment Total number or rate of BOF GHG employees who ceased Basic Oxygen Furnace ppt Greenhouse gas employment with Aurizon method of steelmaking requiring Percentage point GRI during a specified period metallurgical coal QCA Global Reporting Initiative TWh CCS Queensland Competition Gross tonne kilometres Terawatt hour (1012) Carbon Capture and Storage Authority The product of tonnes and UNGC CDP RAB distance United Nations Global Compact Carbon Disclosure Project Regulated Asset Base HELE UT4 CFO RAP High Efficiency Low Emission Draft Access Undertaking Chief Financial Officer Reconciliation Action Plan HCC (FY2014-FY2017) currently CO2e Return on Invested Capital or undergoing review by the QCA Hard Coking Coal Carbon dioxide equivalent ROIC IEA CCC UT5 ROIC is defined as net operating CPS Draft Access Undertaking International Energy Agency profit less adjusted taxes divided Current Policies Scenario (FY2018-FY2021) to be reviewed Clean Coal Centre by invested capital. It is a measure CQCN by the QCA IPO of how well a company generates Central Queensland Coal cashflow relative to the capital Voluntary turnover Initial Public Offering Network invested in the business Total number or rate of IVMS employees who ceased CSHE Committee RIM In-Vehicle Monitoring System employment with Aurizon Central Safety Health and Rail Infrastructure Manager Environment Committee kWh voluntarily during a specified Kilowatt hour (103) Rollingstock period DEHP Equipment which provides Department of Environment and LTI WACC transportation capability on our Heritage Protection Lost Time Injury Weighted Average Cost of railways, such as locomotives Capital Derailment MAR and wagons Derailment occurs where one or Maximum Allowable Revenue WGEA Safety Interaction more rollingstock wheels leave Workplace Gender Equality Act MTKm Formally recorded conversations the rail or track during railway Million train kilometre related to safety matters Workforce availability operations between Aurizon employees Calculated as (Employee Time mtpa DSITI Planned — Unscheduled Leave) / Million tonnes per annum Scope 1 Emissions Department of Science, Employee Time Planned Emissions from operations that Information Technology and MWh are owned or controlled by the Innovation Megawatt hour (106) organisation PAGE 52 Delivering for the Long Haul FY2016 Sustainability Report  PAGE 53 Aurizon Holdings Ltd 175 Eagle Street Brisbane QLD 4000 aurizon.com.au
