Issue 2017 Balance Key data on sustainability within the Lufthansa Group Contents 1 About this report 2 At a glance 4 The Lufthansa Group Cover story:#DigitalAviation 8 Expert interview 10 Digital innovations explained by Lufthansa Group experts 12 Digital services all along the travel chain 14 Digital solutions for the Lufthansa Group’s work environments Sustainable Business Climate and EnvironPractices mental Responsibility Product Responsibility 17 Strategy and management 33 Strategy and management 53 Strategy and management 24 Ethics and integrity 36 Fuel consumption and emissions 53 Customer centricity and quality focus 28 Fleet development 45 Energy and resource management 56 Flight safety and health protection 48 Active noise protection 58 Data protection and data security 51 Commitment to climate research Social Responsibility Corporate Citizenship Service and Information 61 Strategy and management 75 Strategy and management 85 Scope of consolidation / 63 Diversity and equal opportunities 76 Social commitment Methodology of calculations 68 Employment policy based 81 Humanitarian emergency aid 86 Environmental / Personnel data on partnership 82 Other commitments 90 Veriﬁcation statement Scope 1 3 70 Talent management 91 Glossary 72 Health management and 95 GRI index occupational safety 99 Editorial information / Contact partner 100 Overview: Most stringent noise standards 101 Overview: The operating ﬂeet of the Lufthansa Group 103 Corporate Responsibility: Prizes, awards and indices About this report // 1 Balance, the Lufthansa Group’s Sustainability Report, informs stakeholders and the interested public about the Group’s goals, activities and advances in the areas of business, social responsibility, environment, product and corporate citizenship. The data presented in this report complements and expands the information in the Annual Report. Across the Lufthansa Group, Corporate Responsibility is understood Disclaimer in respect of forward-looking statements to comprise the following dimensions: The data included in this report has been collected and processed with the utmost care. Nevertheless, errors in transmission cannot • Economic sustainability be ruled out entirely. Information published in this report with • Corporate governance and compliance regard to the future development of the Lufthansa Group and its • Climate and environmental responsibility subsidiaries consists purely of forecasts and assessments and • Social responsibility not of definitive historical facts. Its purpose is exclusively informa• Product responsibility tional, identified by the use of such cautionary terms as believe, • Corporate citizenship expect, forecast, intend, project, plan, estimate, count on, can, could, should or endeavor. These forward-looking statements are Reporting follows the Global Reporting Initiative’s G4 guidelines based on all the discernible information, facts and expectations (“core option”). This publication also serves as a progress report available at the time. concerning the implementation of the ten principles of the UN Global Compact, which the Lufthansa Group joined in 2002. The It is possible that the Group’s actual results and development may Group determined the most significant topics related to sustaindiffer materially from the forward-looking statements implied by the ability in 2016 in the context of a materiality analysis, which is forecasts. The Lufthansa Group assumes no obligation for and based on the results of a stakeholder survey. does not intend to adapt forward-looking statements to accommodate events or developments that may occur at some later date. Scope of consolidation and comparability Accordingly, it neither expressly nor conclusively accepts liability, Unless noted otherwise, the data in this report refers to the finannor does it give any guarantee for the actuality, accuracy and cial year 2016. You will find explanations concerning the scope completeness of this data and information. of consolidation and calculation methods used to determine the absolute and specific resource consumption at the Lufthansa Note Group on page 85. This report covers the activities of the Lufthansa The terms Lufthansa Group, Group, aviation group, Company and Group. Reporting restricted to individual Group companies is aviation company are used synonymously in this report. indicated in the copy. Due to changes in the portfolio over recent years, the figures for personnel and environmental performance cited in this report are only to a limited extent comparable with those reported for previous years. There are also certain differences in approach compared to the Annual Report when calculating passenger numbers and their derivative performance indicators (see explanations relating to the overview on page 2, At a glance). Publication dates of this report Balance, the Lufthansa Group’s Sustainability Report, is published once a year in German and in English. The preceding edition was 1 Taken from the Annual Report 2016 of the Lufthansa Group. 2 For the reporting year 2016, published on July 14, 2016. The Group has regularly reported the following companies have been included in Balance: Lufthansa (including Lufthansa about its environmental performance since 1994 and has continCityLine and Air Dolomiti), Lufthansa Cargo, SWISS (including Edelweiss Air), Austrian Airlines and Eurowings (including Germanwings). Excluding the services of third parties, i.e. airlines uously expanded its reporting to the other dimensions of entrepreoutside the scope of consolidation of Balance, but that take over services from Lufthansa, for neurial responsibility. example in the event of capacity bottlenecks (see page 86, table “Share of third parties”). 3 Types of flights taken into account: all scheduled and charter flights. 4 See page 86 “Fuel consumption”. 5 Balance: segments (operational perspective); Annual Report: distance Additional information on the Internet (customer perspective). One distance can include several segments, e.g. in the event of stops In addition to this report, the Lufthansa Group informs readers via en route. 6 Balance: on the basis of all passengers aboard; Annual Report: on the basis of all revenue passengers. 7 Companies referred to as in 2, but including the services of third the Internet about its activities in the area of sustainability: parties, as these contribute to the Group’s results. Types of flights as in 3, but including ferry www.lufthansagroup.com/responsibility flights, as these represent costs. At a glance // 2 Business performance data 1 2016 2015 Change Revenue million € 31,660 32,056 – 1.2 % of which traffic revenue million € 24,661 25,506 – 3.3 % EBIT million € 2,275 1,676 + 35.7 % Adjusted EBIT million € 1,752 1,817 – 3.6 % EBITDA million € 4,065 3,395 + 19.7 % Net profit/loss for the period million € 1,776 1,698 + 4.6 % Total assets million € 34,697 32,462 + 6.9 % Cash flow from operating activities million € 3,246 3,393 – 4.3 % Capital expenditure (gross) million € 2,236 2,569 – 13.0 % Equity ratio percent 20.6 18.0 + 2.6 PP Personnel data 2016 2015 Change Number of employees (on December 31, respectively) 124,306 120,652 + 3.0 % of these, in Germany 68,181 66,920 + 1.9 % of these, outside Germany 56,125 53,732 + 4.5 % Staff costs million € 7,354 8,075 – 8.9 % Revenue/employee thousand € 257 268 – 4.2 % Staff costs/revenue percent 23.2 25.2 – 2.0 PP Average age years 42.2 42.3 – 0.1 years Part-time ratio, absolute percent 27.4 28.8 – 1.4 PP Part-time ratio, men percent 14.0 14.9 – 0.9 PP Part-time ratio, women percent 43.4 45.7 – 2.3 PP Share of women in management (Germany) percent 16.9 16.2 + 0.7 PP Share of women in management (worldwide) percent 15.6 14.9 + 0.7 PP Environmental data 2, 3 2016 2015 Change Resource consumption Fuel consumption 4 tonnes 9,055,550 8,947,766 + 1.2 % Fuel consumption, specific, passenger transportation l /100 pkm 3.85 3.84 + 0.2 % Fuel consumption, specific, freight transport g / tkm 224 225 – 0.7 % Emissions Carbon dioxide emissions tonnes 28,524,981 28,185,463 + 1.2 % Carbon dioxide emissions, specific, passenger transportation kg /100 pkm 9.71 9.69 + 0.2 % Nitrogen oxide emissions tonnes 139,008 135,447 + 2.6 % Nitrogen oxide emissions, specific, passenger transportation g /100 pkm 47.0 46.3 + 1.5 % Carbon monoxide emissions tonnes 19,320 19,137 + 1.0 % Carbon monoxide emissions, specific, passenger transportation g /100 pkm 7.1 7.1 – 0.2 % Unburned hydrocarbons tonnes 1,880.4 1,858.8 + 1.2 % Unburned hydrocarbons, specific, passenger transportation g /100 pkm 0.7 0.7 + 0.6 % Transport performance data Balance 2, 3 ± 2015 Annual Report 7 ± 2015 Flights 5 936,430 0.6 % 1,021,919 + 1.8 % Passengers carried 6 105,940,389 1.3 % 109,670,000 + 1.8 % Seat kilometers offered, SKO million pkm 279,250 3.1 % 286,555 + 4.6 % Freight tonne kilometers offered, FTKO million tkm 14,642 0.2 % 15,117 + 1.0 % Tonne kilometers offered, TKO million tkm 42,574 2.1 % 43,607 + 7.9 % Passenger kilometers transported, PKT 6 million pkm 226,485 1.2 % 226,633 + 2.8 % Freight tonne kilometers transported (including third-party performance), million tkm 9,279 1.2 % 10,071 + 1.4 % FTKT Tonne kilometers transported, TKT million tkm 31,992 1.2 % 32,300 + 7.9 % Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2017 // Lufthansa Group // 3 Dear Readers, Digitalization is changing all areas of society and business. In aviation as well, digital solutions are driving the evolution of product and service offers. This trend is irreversible. It opens up a universe of opportunities and allows us to embark on new paths – with the customer experience in mind, but also with regard to our business segments. For this reason, we have made 2017 the Year of Digitalization across the Group and adopted the motto: Digitalization is one of the keys to the future for us. We have launched important digitalization projects in all areas of the Company – beginning with paperless aircraft maintenance and eJournals on board to eFreight at Lufthansa Cargo and virtual reality in pilot training. The largest current project in this domain is equipping all our shortand “ medium-haul aircraft with broadband Internet access. Our digitalization proOur goal is a comprehensive and sustainable mobility concept, tailor-made to the customer’s grams allow optimized individual wishes. To achieve this, digitalization along the entire travel chain plays a central processes, improved services role. It is not least our digitalization programs that allow optimized processes, improved services and faster communication – and they support the green transformation. and a faster communication – and they support the For this reason, we have dedicated the cover story “#DigitalAviation” in this sustainability report to digitalization and would like to show you with a number of examples how this topic “moves” us quite literally. green transformation. ” Carsten Spohr Movement continues to be a driving force in the area of the modernization of the Lufthansa Group's fleet. In 2016, we integrated 47 new aircraft into our Group’s fleet and this year we again expect a new aircraft almost every week. The current high point of our fleet renewal is the Airbus A350-900, the most modern and environmentally friendly long-haul aircraft. In December 2016, we received the first A350 of 25 aircraft on order. With the commissioning of the A320neo at Lufthansa and the Bombardier C Series at SWISS, there were even two world premieres during the reporting year. But the most important consideration is: With each new aircraft in operation we reduce our operating costs by 20 percent and make an important contribution to noise reduction and environmental protection. By having supported the UN Global Compact since 2002, we emphasize our continued commitment to fulfilling our responsibility for environmental and social issues alongside economic aspects. This also includes continuing to make ongoing contributions to society. I thank you for your interest in our work and wish you a sustainably captivating read. Carsten Spohr Chairman of the Executive Board and CEO Deutsche Lufthansa AG www.lufthansagroup.com/responsibility THE LUFTHANSA GROUP The Lufthansa Group is an aviation company with worldwide operations and more than 550 subsidiaries and afﬁliated companies. The portfolio of companies comprises network airlines, point-to-point airlines, and aviation service companies. In 2016, the airlines of the Lufthansa Group carried 109.7 million passengers and thus established a new passenger record. www.lufthansagroup.com THE SETUP OF THE LUFTHANSA GROUP Network airlines Point-to-point airlines The premium airlines Lufthansa, SWISS and Austrian Airlines With the Eurowings brand the Lufthansa Group offers an innovative within the Lufthansa Group offer their customers an integrated and competitive product on point-to-point routes for price-sensitive travel experience via their hubs as well as the highest standards and service-oriented customers. In 2017, wet-leasing additional of service and comfort. Being members of the Star Alliance, the capacities from Air Berlin and the complete acquisition of Brussels world’s largest aviation alliance, their passengers enjoy numerous Airlines added further platforms. advantages. www.eurowings.com | www.brusselsairlines.com www.LH.com | www.swiss.com | www.austrian.com Aviation services As leaders in the world market, the service companies strengthen the Lufthansa Group’s portfolio. Lufthansa Cargo AG, with headquarters Lufthansa Technik AG, with headquarters The LSG Group is the world’s leading in Frankfurt, is the Lufthansa Group’s in Hamburg, is the world’s leading manuprovider of comprehensive in-ﬂight products specialist for logistics and Europe’s facturer-independent provider of mainteand services. The group’s parent company, leading cargo airline. nance, repair and overhaul services for LSG Lufthansa Service Holding AG, is www.lufthansa-cargo.com civil commercial aircraft. headquartered in Neu-Isenburg. www.lufthansa-technik.com www.lsgskychefs.com AT A GLANCE Corporate headquarters Number of passengers in 2016 Cologne 109.7 million Legal form Hubs Stock corporation Frankfurt, Munich, Zurich, Vienna Number of employees Number of aircraft in the Group’s ﬂeet on 31.12.2016 617 124,306 Number of destinations Number of nationalities (summer timetable 2017) 144 308 cities in 103 countries 1DAY AT THE LUFTHANSA GROUP 2,799 1.72 million flights meals 1,700 300,547 aircraft supported passengers Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2017 // Lufthansa Group #DigitalAviation Quality Innovation Efficiency From the Internet of Things via big data to smart homes: digitalization is a megatrend. Already, intelligent and interconnected systems shape our public and private lives. For some time now, digitalization has permeated almost all aspects of aviation, with enormous consequences on existing processes and products. The capabilities of information technology offer the Lufthansa Group concrete opportunities to further optimize its service value chain, to add digital components to its product and service offers and to personalize the latter. Similarly, work processes can be simplified and “green” transformations can be advanced in this way. “Innovation and Digitalization” is one of the Group’s strategic action areas; the transformation toward electronically supported processes is fully underway in all business segments. Our stated goal: to be the “most digital” aviation group worldwide. On the following pages we’ll take you along on our flight – destination: digitalization. // 7 “ T H E D I G I TA L R E V O L U T I O N P E R M E AT E S A L M O S T E V E R Y A S P E C T O F AV I AT I O N .” D r. C h r i s t i a n L a n g e r Head of Digital Strategy, Innovation and Transformation, Lufthansa Group HOW IMPORTANT IS DIGITALIZATION TO THE LUFTHANSA GROUP? WHAT ADVANTAGES WILL CUSTOMERS REAP It is the central topic related to innovation and future viability in all FROM DIGITAL INNOVATION? business segments of the Lufthansa Group. Digitalization is now The airlines within the Lufthansa Group are intensively working on changing our lives to an extent that only very few were able to imagine differentiating and personalizing their offers. The goal is as obvious a mere ten years ago. Politics and election campaigns today take as it is ambitious: We want to increase our customers’ satisfaction place on the social media stage in the same matter-of-fact way as do and thus increase their loyalty. Given that we welcome more than dialogues between friends and strangers. Similarly, learning, doing 100 million passengers aboard our aircraft every year, one question research and working have changed. Moreover, the digital revolution takes precedence. How can we take advantage of increasing numis permeating almost every aspect of aviation. We are leaders in bers of customer interactions and use the related stream of informadigital innovations within our industry and would like to maintain this tion to make even better decisions? Knowing customer preferences position. This is why Carsten Spohr, our Chairman of the Executive is key to personalize and optimize the next step along the customer’s Board and CEO, has proclaimed 2017 as the Year of Digitalization. travel chain. This is also and especially true for disruptions that may occur during a journey. In this context, it is a central requirement to WHAT ARE THE CHARACTERISTICS OF THE closely interweave the physical and digital experience with a brand. LUFTHANSA GROUP’S DIGITALIZATION STRATEGY? For example, on the basis of such information we might offer transit We are evaluating all aspects that are related to such a profound passengers lounge access to be able to relax or an upgrade to a process of change. Of course, the central question is how we can higher travel class for the connecting flight. offer our customers an even more streamlined and more pleasant travel experience and which opportunities digitalization offers us in Incidentally, personalized service improvements along the travel this area. Digitalization will change the way we interact with our cuschain contribute to deepening customer relationships and increasing tomers and enable our Group to evolve into a more agile company. customers’ trust. One very important point is that customers will only The opportunities for increasing efficiency in core processes are also allow innovative ways of interaction if we offer them attractive advansignificant and are being assessed in all business segments. Apart tages and if they trust the integrity applied to handling their personal from this direct effect on our products and processes it is our goal to data. The explicit declaration of consent from all people and organibe one of the most attractive employers for “digital natives”. What zations with access to such data is a fundamental principle to which changes do we have to apply to our leadership structures, internal the Lufthansa Group is committed in its corporate governance processes and incentive systems to reach this goal? How do we guidelines. Additionally, Germany’s stringent data protection laws guide our employees and offer them development opportunities are applicable. towards the new professional areas? 8 // Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2017 // Lufthansa Group // Cover story: #DigitalAviation HOW CAN AN AVIATION COMPANY TAKE ADVANTAGE OF ELECTRONICALLY SUPPORTED PROCESSES TO OPERATE IN EVEN MORE SUSTAINABLE WAYS? From an economic perspective there is significant potential: The question is how digitalization can be harnessed to set up familiar business processes in better and > Expert interview more efficient ways. Specifically, we are looking at efficiency advantages in dimensions that cannot be realized by means of classic methods of continuous improvement such as lean management or kaizen. For example, the use of so-called chatbots in customer service over the telephone – meaning digital assistants supported by artificial intelligence – reduces the workload of our service centers and simultaneously shortens waiting times for our customers. There are also more concrete examples: in the spare parts supply chains for our aircraft we use sensors for geolocalization and tracking systems for aircraft components. Often new technologies provide ecological advantages in addition to economic effects. For example, on its digital platform AVIATAR Lufthansa Technik developed a prognostic system that allows the continuous optimum trimming of the aileron, which in turn significantly reduces kerosene consumption and CO2 emissions. This is no longer a vision of the future but a solution used in daily operations. Equally, changing from paper-based to digital processes helps us to conserve precious resources along the value chain. HOW MUCH INFLUENCE DOES DIGITALIZATION HAVE ON THE LUFTHANSA GROUP’S WORK ENVIRONMENT? Our internal structures will change considerably. In the future, working in networks will increasingly gain importance. In contrast to classic hierarchical structures, networks are formed by colleagues who have a particular identification with a topic and would like to make a contribution to it. A person’s hierarchical position or the question of organizational affiliation within the Lufthansa Group becomes secondary in this context. Our digital development teams already work in this manner and this highly motivating way of working, which is based on enthusiasm and the will to participate, is set to spread. With the network, a second legitimate organizational element establishes itself in tandem with hierarchy. The network with its ostensibly looser structure fosters searching, experimenting, learning and changing; as a result, a more flexible and agile type of organization will evolve. AVIATAR: DIGITAL DEPICTION OF AIRCRAFT AND THE MRO INDUSTRY With AVIATAR, the new product division Digital Fleet Solutions at Lufthansa Technik headed by Dr. Christian Langer is developing a central, Internet-based platform that offers customers access to all digital MRO solutions (Maintenance, Repair and Overhaul). It allows airlines to monitor the technical state of their fleets in real time and make decisions to ensure optimal technical maintenance. For example, using integrated forecasting systems (predictive maintenance), users are able to search directly for the most suitable spare part and arrange for its shipment to the nearest maintenance station even before the aircraft component in question has malfunctioned. Furthermore, all documents required for proof of airworthiness can be called up directly on AVIATAR. The deliberately open platform invites others – including competitors – to develop innovative applications and offer them there. This new approach aims to significantly increase the development speed of digital innovations for the MRO industry – for the benefit of airlines and passengers alike. // 9 D I G I TA L I N N O VAT I O N S Explained by Lufthansa Group experts BERNHARD BARTH PROCESS ARCHITECT FOR THE PAPERLESS MAINTENANCE PROGRAM AT LUFTHANSA TECHNIK At Lufthansa Technik we set ourselves the goal to digimaintenance processes saves effort and redundant talize the defects and processing documents related to data entry, and avoids switching between different > Innovation aircraft maintenance in their entirety. Doing so is set to media. Another advantage: In the future, our techniconserve 27 tonnes of paper a year. The measures we cians will have to deal with a significantly smaller volume have planned for implementation by the end of 2018 of documentation relating to their work on aircraft. Our correspond to 5.5 million sheets of paper that will no integrated platform Maintenance Log allows us to prolonger have to be dispatched and archived. In the role cess all documents required by our customers both of Process Architect for the Paperless Maintenance ergonomically and digitally. In this way, data transparProgram I analyze processes in aircraft maintenance ency is generated in real time, which in the case of and ensure that the digitalization conforms to the Lufthansa allows active control at an entirely new level. original processes. The digital documentation of HEIKO FREYTAG GROUP MANAGER OF COCKPIT INFORMATION SERVICES, WAS THE TECHNICAL PROJECT MANAGER FOR FLIGHT OPERATIONS IN THE eFLIGHTOPS PROJECT Within the project eFlightOps, between 2013 and special colors. The eFF digitalizes processes in the 2016 we developed innovative applications for the cockpit, from providing the briefing package and fuel Electronic Flight Bag (EFB) at Lufthansa. They support order to checks during the flight and archiving tasks. the Group’s pilots in preparing and conducting a flight At the same time, the software supports the pilots in safely and economically. Among the areas of emphasis determining the quantity of extra fuel, which increases was the development of the electronic Flight Folder flight safety and promotes a conscientious use of (eFF), a software that displays briefing information in a kerosene. In addition, the eFF and the far-reaching clear manner for the cockpit crew – for example by avoidance of printed briefing documents reduce paper displaying particularly important data in graphics and consumption in the cockpit by about 90 percent. 10 // Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2017 // Lufthansa Group // Cover story: #DigitalAviation THORSTEN FRIEDRICH > Efficiency HEAD OF eFREIGHT GLOBAL ROLLOUT AT LUFTHANSA CARGO Under the umbrella of Lufthansa Cargo’s eFreight As is already the case for electronic passenger tickets, project, we are working on making air freight handling all data required for cargo shipments will in the future paperless and digitalizing the entire delivery chain by be available digitally and thus in high quality around 2020. At the moment, paper documents still have their the clock. The advantage: Our customers no longer place in our business. There are airway bills, certifihave to produce and administer paper documents, cates, customs declarations and insurance documents while we can work at an early stage with the data – everything is printed, sorted, transported and archived. transmitted. With eFreight we palpably improve the Therefore, we are creating a digital information chain processes and efficiency of cargo shipments. In addithat follows the physical freight shipments. For tion, digitalization can help conserve about 7,800 tonexample, the electronic airway bill (eAWB) has been nes of paper across the industry per year. introduced at more than 150 Lufthansa Cargo stations. MICHAEL ORTWEIN DIRECTOR COMPETENCE CENTER OPERATIONAL APPLICATIONS AT LSG SKY CHEFS AND CODEVELOPER OF THE CBASE PROGRAM > Quality Digitalization is improving in-flight catering in many the same time, we designed apps based in CBASE, ways. Until recently, our colleagues at LSG Sky Chefs such as the Galley Guide, to ensure that this data is and the crews had to rely on printed loading lists to available digitally. In the future, our employees and the know how many meals, cutlery sets, amenity kits and crews will be able to find all loading data by means of blankets are needed for a particular flight. For each this app. Additionally, the digital production guide flight operated by an Airbus A380 these lists run to shows them current quantities and pictures of the meals about 100 pages. To improve this situation and optito be loaded. These apps will help us not only to mize the loading process, we further developed reduce paper consumption, but also to make the entire CBASE at the IT department. This program depicts process smarter. As all information is always current all relevant information concerning in-flight catering. At and easy to access, we also prevent possible errors. // 11 D I G I TA L S E R V I C E S A L L A LO N G T H E T R AV E L C H A I N From planning to arrival Customer Service App 22 Min. Created by creative outlet from the Noun Project Created by creative outlet from the Noun Project Created by Thays Malcher Created by Yazmin Alanis from the Noun Project from the Noun Project Created by Chanut is Industries from the Noun Project Created by Thays Malcher Created by Rafael Garcia Motta from the Noun Project from the Noun Project AT HOME AIRPORT CHATBOT “Mildred” is the name of the chatbot that has CUSTOMER SERVICE APP A missed connecthelped Lufthansa Group customers since the end of 2016 to find ing flight, weather-related flight schedule changes, a missing piece suitable flights. On request, the virtual contact partner in the Facebook of luggage – all of these are cases for Lufthansa Customer Service. Messenger App finds the best price for flights on the routes operated But before the latter can solve the problem, the passenger has to by Group airlines during the nine months ahead. provide his or her personal data. A time-consuming and unnecessary effort, which is a thing of the past now, thanks to the new Customer Service app: It combines the personal data from the Lufthansa in TIME “Will I be in time for my flight?” is a question that app with the passenger’s current information and transmits these thousands of passengers ask themselves every day. The new inTime data to the Customer Service employee. At the same time, the app app developed by Lufthansa Systems can answer this question. It informs about possible waiting times and opens up new contact calculates how much time a passenger still has to get from his or her options such as call-backs and chats. current location to the gate punctually. For its forecast, the application takes into consideration the traffic situation around the airport as well as waiting times at check-in and security. Changes, such as a eJOURNALS The airlines within the Lufthansa Group offer delayed departure, are relayed in real time. The basis for calculations their passengers numerous free eJournals instead of printed is anonymized passenger data. inTime is adaptive and becomes newspapers and magazines. Before taking a flight, passengers more intelligent over time. This app is expected to be available to simply enter their name and reservation code or ticket number Lufthansa passengers from summer 2017. online – and they are ready to download their preferred publications to their smartphone, tablet or notebook. The digital media selection featuring more than 250 newspapers and magazines in 18 languages also benefits the environment: eJournals reduce the weight carried on board, which helps cut fuel consumption and CO2 emissions. 12 // Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2017 // Lufthansa Group // Cover story: #DigitalAviation ? ? Created by Chanut is Industries from the Noun Project Created by Thays Malcher Created by Ben Cunningham Created by chiara galli from the Noun Project Created by Rafael Garcia Motta Created by Ben Cunningham from the Noun Project from the Noun Project from the Noun Project from the Noun Project AIRCRAFT DESTINATION BOARDCONNECT Lufthansa Systems continuously ALLERGEN APP Be it milk, fish, peanuts, or grains works on improving passengers’ travel experience by means of containing gluten: Many people suffer from food intolerances. For personalized solutions and helping airlines position themselves this reason the LSG Group developed an allergen app based on EU optimally for the digital future. One example for this quest is BoardDirective 1169/2011, which covers all relevant information concerning Connect. This digital platform comes in three versions that provide in-flight meals and 14 key allergens. Passengers can thus let the wireless in-flight entertainment (IFE) on passengers’ smartphones purser know what their food intolerances are and the latter can show and tablets. In addition to the permanently installed classic IFE them which dishes are suitable for them. The application is available solution BoardConnect there is also the flexible variant BoardConnect in 16 languages and is tailored precisely to the requirements of the Portable. It combines all technical components in a single unit that EU Directive, which governs the labeling of foodstuffs (ingredients, can be installed quickly and simply aboard any aircraft without a information on allergies, expiration dates, etc.). great deal of cabling. The third option is an Internet-based solution supported by BoardConnect Plus. DIGITAL BAGGAGE SERVICES “See you, we’ll be in touch!” is what Lufthansa passengers might have been FLYNET Surfing, chatting, mailing and streaming videos – and saying since spring 2016 to their suitcases and bags as they check all in broadband quality. Lufthansa has offered this service on longthem in. The airline’s digital baggage services ensure that passengers haul flights for many years. Now, passengers on Lufthansa, Austrian can use a link on their mobile boarding passes in the Lufthansa app Airlines and Eurowings flights can enjoy the same offer by using to find out at any time where their checked-in luggage is at that FlyNet on shortand medium-haul flights when they connect their moment. After their arrival at the destination airport the app informs smartphone, tablet or notebook to the WLAN on board. Lufthansa customers when exactly and on which baggage carousel they will Group airlines are thus among the first in Europe to offer their pasreceive their luggage. In addition, luggage tags produced with the sengers this kind of surfing experience. The refit program will be new solutions “HomeTag” and “Rimowa Electronic Tag” make concluded at Lufthansa in 2018. checking in baggage significantly more comfortable. // 13 D I G I TA L S O L U T I O N S Fo r t h e L u f t h a n s a G r o u p’s w o r k e n v i r o n m e n t s The Lufthansa Group takes advantage of digitalization not only to continuously improve its product and service offers, but it also counts on digital innovations to optimally support its employees’ daily work. This includes eye-tracking technologies that turn employees’ eye movements into “control mechanisms”, and augmented reality, the enhancement of reality by means of a virtual, artificial world. Other approaches include the digital interconnectedness of employees, learning apps and virtual reality. To illustrate our many ideas in this area, these two projects are representative: OPSESSiOn – DIGITALIZATION OF OPERATIONS OPSession is the name of a program that Lufthansa, SWISS and Austrian Airlines use to digitalize their operative processes on board and on the ground with the aim of aligning flight operations with a more future-oriented perspective. To this end, cabin crews and flight managers will receive mobile devices from 2017 that create new opportunities of working together: Digitally connected employees are able to exchange information more quickly and organize processes more smoothly. The goal of this large-scale digital project is to use current and relevant data to increase efficiency in the area of operations, create new options for employee communications and lift customer service to a new level by offering personalized services. Airlines are especially keen to offer their pilots, pursers and ground employees apps and functions on mobile devices to facilitate their daily work. For example, the “Manage Gates” app continuously provides all current flight information for flight managers. VIRTUAL REALITY FOR PILOT TRAINING Future pilots complete their first cross-country flights under scud running conditions in Phoenix, Arizona. They fly single-engined propeller aircraft on a predefined route, which is divided by waypoints into several route segments. In doing so, they have to pilot the aircraft and navigate at the same time. For the preparation of these first flights, Lufthansa Aviation Training now uses virtual-reality goggles. The VR training module improves the quality and effectiveness of pilot training because the trainee pilots are more quickly able to grasp and penetrate the subject matter by immersing themselves into the virtual environment. By using VR goggles, future pilots are able to familiarize themselves ahead of time in a highly realistic manner with the entire sequence of their first cross-country flight. However, the focal point of the training phase in Phoenix remains aeronautical training. 14 // Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2017 // Lufthansa Group // Cover story: #DigitalAviation “HOW WE SHAPE TOMORROW’S WORLD TODAY IS DECISIVE.” Professor Sabine Pfeiffer holds a chair in sociology at Hohenheim University > Expert interview WHAT INFLUENCE DOES TECHNOLOGICAL PROGRESS HAVE ON THE INTERACTIONS BETWEEN PEOPLE, TECHNOLOGY AND ORGANIZATIONS? Technological change has always had a significant influence on people and organizations. What is new is that 4.0 technologies need a lot more shaping. Each company needs to define digitalization in highly concrete terms for itself. As a result, people and organizations now face more pronounced challenges concerning the design of technology than before. WHAT DOES THE WORK ENVIRONMENT 4.0 LOOK LIKE? Above all: confused and not simultaneous. Many things will develop in different ways. But the decisive point is how we shape tomorrow’s world today. In shaping the new working environments it is important to create jobs that allow for future changes. The broader the definition of tasks and the more qualified the employees, the greater a company’s ability to innovate in the future. AND TALKING ABOUT INDUSTRY 4.0: WHAT ARE THE REQUIREMENTS THAT EMPLOYEES HAVE TO FULFILL TO BE FIT FOR THE WORLD OF BITS AND BYTES? Employees are much fitter than is commonly assumed. One reason for this is that in their private lives they are digitally much more active than on their jobs. Another is that they have gathered experience with change due to digitalization and globalization over the past years. Our research shows that a large number of employees today often deal with change, complexity and imponderables. We measure this requirement with an index concerning the working capacity or “Arbeitsvermögen” in German (AV)1. In Germany, 74 percent of employees show an AV value above average; in aviation this value stands at 85 percent and is thus considerably higher. Therefore, the employees know how to deal with change – the important point is to involve them actively from the beginning. HOW CAN COMPANIES BEST SHAPE CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY IN THE AGE OF DIGITALIZATION? Digitalization provides more transparency concerning resource consumption. Smarter management systems for buildings, aviation and IT technology will make it easier to conserve resources. However, these opportunities have to be taken into account at the design stage of such systems. This is highly important because digitalization itself is very resource-intensive. Sabine Pfeiffer conducts research work on the changes affecting technology and the work environment. One area of emphasis in her work is the question of what effects digitalization has on work situations. In 2016 she was appointed to the scientific advisory council of the platform “Industrie 4.0”. 1 see http://www.bit.ly/Arbeitsvermögen // 15 SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS PRACTICES Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2017 // Lufthansa Group // 17 Strategy and management All entrepreneurial activities across the Lufthansa Group are guided by awareness of responsible conduct. Applying sustainable management principles with regard to financial, social and ecological aspects is in the interest of the aviation group and its stakeholders. Doing so is a fundamental requirement for further increasing the Company’s value over the long-term. The topic of sustainability is present in all seven action areas of achieve the greatest effect. This includes above all the intention to the strategic program “7to1 – Our Way Forward”, which aligns the reduce environmentally relevant effects from business activities on Lufthansa Group with the requirements of the future. Its measures a continuous basis. The Group’s measurable contribution in this designed to increase efficiency are the basis on which the aviation area comes above all from making comprehensive investments in group is to develop successfully and sustainably. The goal of the new aircraft, new technologies and new products. strategic program is to increase quality, efficiency and the ability to innovate across the Group and thus to secure the Lufthansa Group’s Moreover, sustainable business practices can also ensure that the competitiveness (see page 12, Annual Report 2016 and page 19, Company is able to take advantage of arising opportunities for its Balance 2016). own business activities and that risks can be minimized or even avoided, especially those that may result from more stringent reguThe principles of sustainable management are a key element of the lations, among others. Managing opportunities and risks is inteGroup’s governance. To steer the Company, the Lufthansa Group grated into all business processes. The established internal control uses a value-oriented management system, which is part of all and risk management systems allow the aviation group to identify processes concerning planning, steering and control. This approach risks and their potential effects, and to take appropriate measures aims at creating long-term value independently of industry and (see page 57 ff., Annual Report 2016). business cycles. The Lufthansa Group has set itself a comprehensive sustainability The focus of the sustainability strategy is on aspects that have the agenda, which ensures responsible business practices in all busimost significant influence on the Lufthansa Group and where it can ness segments and comprises the dimensions shown below. The Corporate Responsibility dimensions of the Lufthansa Group Economic sustainability Corporate citizenship Corporate Product Responsibility Corporate governance responsibility and compliance Social responsibility Climate and environmental responsibility Organization The highest control body in the area of sustainable management is the Supervisory Board. The coordination and further development of sustainability-relevant activities and initiatives within the Lufthansa Group is the duty of the Corporate Responsibility Council (CRC). This interdisciplinary and interdepartmental committee is placed at the upper management level and has the task of initiating and THREE QUESTIONS FOR: DR. WILLIAM WILLMS coordinating sustainability-related topics and processes at the VICE PRESIDENT GROUP STRATEGY AND M&A Group level. The CRC comprises the heads of the Group departDEUTSCHE LUFTHANSA AG ments Strategy, Political Affairs, Group Environmental Issues, Human Resources, Legal Affairs, Communications, Investor How important is the stakeholder dialogue for Relations, Controlling, and Corporate Sourcing. The respective the Lufthansa Group? managers are responsible for concrete measures and projects We maintain a constant dialogue with our stakeholders, such concerning sustainability aspects. They bundle and organize as shareholders, unions, NGOs, politicians and many more. the topics in their own area of responsibility. These continuous and open exchanges help us compare internal objectives with external expectations and demands. The Lufthansa Group will interlink sustainability aspects even more Only in this way can we meet our own aspiration of treating strongly with Group strategy, aiming to give relevant steering immore difficult subjects credibly and transparently. The chalpulses across the Group and track their implementation. lenge in this context is meeting the multitude of different – and sometimes contradictory – requirements of individual stakeholder groups, and simultaneously positioning the Lufthansa Stakeholder dialogue Group according to its mission, vision and strategy in a targetoriented way. An important contribution for further developing the sustainability agenda as well as the annual reporting on significant topics of How is the Lufthansa Group adapting to the EU directive corporate responsibility comes from the dialogue with stakeholders. on non-financial reporting, which applies from 2017? It gives the Lufthansa Group a better understanding of its different The Lufthansa Group welcomes the EU-wide directive on interest groups’ needs, expectations and wishes, which permits non-financial reporting as an important step towards a more their inclusion in the Company’s business practices. Topics with pronounced focus on the subject of sustainability. For 23 potential influence on long-term opportunities for creating value years, we have informed our stakeholders and the interested for the Lufthansa Group can thus be better identified. public by means of our sustainability report Balance about topics, areas of emphasis and progress concerning the The range of stakeholders spans from customers and employees Company’s sustainable management – not only in the area of to investors, suppliers, politicians, municipalities, neighbors, ecology, but now also in all dimensions of corporate responNGOs and scientists. The Group places great emphasis on an sibility. Thus, we already meet most of the requirements that open, continuous and trusting dialogue with its internal and external will only be binding from next year as a result of the implestakeholder groups and actively seeks exchanges with them mentation of the EU directive. through a range of different dialogue formats (see page 23, Stakeholder dialogue: The most important activities in 2016 at a glance). How will the Lufthansa Group further develop its sustainability strategy? I am convinced that sustainability will increasingly become a factor for success in global competition. As a result, stakeholders and management will focus more and more on sustainability strategies. In many Lufthansa Group companies we already have a good setup in this respect. The next step is to continuously evolve Group-wide sustainability strategy and to interlink it even further with Group strategy so that we can give effective Company-wide steering impulses in this area. Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2017 // Lufthansa Group // 19 The diverse stakeholders of the Lufthansa Group Customers Suppliers Consumers Capital market Contractual partners LO H A S Investors (Lifestyle of Health and Sustainability) Shareholders Analysts Rating agencies Governments Employees Legislators Employee representatives Po l i t i c i a n s Authorities Science Research Education Neighbors Local communities Society Pu b l i c i t y Nongovernmental organizations Social networks (NGOs) Organizations Consortia Materiality analysis were invited to participate in the survey that have a particular proximity to the Lufthansa Group due to their professions or their influThe Lufthansa Group conducted a broad stakeholder survey in ence in public or political spheres. Their responses are combined 2016, which built on earlier reviews (see page 22 f., Balance 2016). with top management’s assessments in a materiality matrix (see For this purpose, the Group’s experts identified or confirmed 12 page 22, Balance 2016). relevant action areas. The latter focused on topics Over the years ahead, this matrix will serve the Lufthansa Group • through which the Lufthansa Group’s business activities have as the base from which to advance the strategic development of a significant social impact, corporate responsibility management and for reporting in accordance • which influence stakeholders substantially in their evaluation with legal requirements that are binding for larger, capital-market of the Company, oriented companies within the European Union from 2017 (see • which are required by sustainability standards and regulations adjacent interview). In addition, the Group used the materiality and analysis to determine and adapt the contents of its reporting. • that have a significant influence on the Lufthansa Group’s ability to generate financial and non-financial value over the medium The Lufthansa Group will integrate in particular those action fields and long term (see page 20 f., Corporate Responsibility: Action that have been defined as “very important” as well as the central areas and goals). aspects related to them even more strongly into its business processes and continue to develop related management approaches. Safety and adherence to legal requirements were not included as It is also planned to regularly assess the relevance of action areas topics in the survey, as the Lufthansa Group considers these to by means of new materiality analyses and make adjustments if be basic prerequisites for its business activities. In addition to needed. customers, employees and business partners, stakeholder groups Corporate Responsibility (CR): Action areas1 and goals CR dimension Economic Sustainability Corporate governance and compliance Action area Profitability 2 Sustainable innovation, Anti-corruption 2 Sustainability in Human rights 2 research and development the supply chain Effect internal/external internal/external internal/external external internal /external Relevance Approach • Sustainable corporate • Promotion of an inno• Strengthening of fair • Securing standards •V  isible positioning as management and vation culture within the competition, integconcerning human a company that works value-oriented steerLufthansa Group rity and responsible rights, work conditions worldwide for adhering of the Group with • Participation in and practices and environmental ence to human rights, regard to financial, support for research protection in supply among other criteria, social and ecological initiatives and projects chain as a signatory of the aspects as prerequi• Applying sustainability UN Global Compact sites to increase the criteria in selecting Company’s value suppliers long-term Goals •S  ecure the long-term • Strengthen ability to • Increase awareness, • Ensure that suppliers • Adhere to and guaransuccess and thus the innovate and promote ensure practices in guarantee a minimum tee human rights Lufthansa Group’s research activities, also conformity with law standard in this area •A  ctively defend human future viability by with regard to more and regulations for goods and services rights means of continuous sustainable products supplied to the value increases. Goal: and services Lufthansa Group to be first choice for customers, shareholders, employees and partners Product CR dimension Climate and environmental responsibility responsibility Action area Climate protection Energy and Active noise Service and customer resource management protection orientation Effect external internal/external external external Relevance Approach • Making use of all • Responsible use of • Continuous commit• Orientation in line with options provided by natural resources ment to active noise customers’ wishes and the four-pillar strategy on board and on the protection needs, including: to continuously increase ground environmentally and fuel efficiency in flight socially compatible operations and thus product and service to further reduce the design specific CO2 emissions appropriate informa• Support for climate tion about environresearch and other mental and social scientific projects effects of products and services Goals • Reduce specific fuel • Expand continuously, • Reduce noise at • At least maintain – or consumption of the or implement, environsource long-term, in increase – customer Lufthansa Group’s mental management particular to lessen the satisfaction and NPS®, passenger fleets by systems at Group burden on people living depending on concrete 25 percent by 2020, airlines and service close to airports objectives compared with 2006 companies • Identify and implement • Support IATA goals approaches to increase customer orientation Relevance for the Lufthansa Group from “important” to “very important” Relevance for stakeholders from “important” to “very important” CR dimension Social responsibility Action area Employer Job safety and Employee awareness attractiveness health protection about sustainability Effect internal/external internal internal Relevance Approach • Fair and partnership• Health-promoting • Sensitization of all oriented relationship design of work employees concerning with employees environments, work the importance of an • Comprehensive approcesses and environmentally and proach to promoting cooperation socially compatible greater diversity in all • S  upport for employees company, for example dimensions in assuming responsiby training, web-based • Maintaining a balanced bility for their health training and internal relationship between communications working and private life • Offer of broad portfolio of training and continuing education options • High social standards Goals • Position all Lufthansa •M aintain employees’ • Increase employees’ Group companies as health and ability to awareness of responattractive employers perform long-term and sible and sustainable • Find and keep quasustainably business practices lified personnel, also •P romote individual by means of talent responsibility: sensitize management employees to actively • Improve the Engagelook after their health ment Index CR dimension Society Action area Local value creation Corporate citizenship Transparent political commitment Effect external internal /external external Relevance Approach •A  irport operators, local • F  ocused corporate • Transparent and service providers and citizenship concept open advocacy of suppliers particularly • P  roviding humanitarian the Company’s or benefit from output emergency aid and industry’s interests at sourced locally by support in the event of the political level airlines catastrophes Goals • Support economic •E  xpand social com• Ensure transparency development at mitment and increase with regard to the regional level and efficiency Lufthansa Group’s make contribution political commitment in context of social commitment 1 The action areas were identified and evaluated in 2016 in the context of a broadly designed included in the 2016 stakeholder survey as they are defined for the Lufthansa Group in the stakeholder survey (see page 22 f., Balance 2016). principles of sustainable corporate governance, as are the subjects of safety and compli2 The subject areas economic sustainability, anti-corruption and human rights were not ance with legal frameworks. 22 // Sustainable Business Practices In 2016, the Lufthansa Group and Munich Airport jointly hosted the CDP DACH Climate Leadership Award Conference. Committed to the United Nations’ sustainability goals In September 2015, the United Nations’ member countries adopted the Agenda 2030 for sustainability; its central element is the 17 global Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs, see www.un.org/sustainabledevelopment). As a company with global activities and the first signatory of the UN Global Compact from the ranks of the aviation industry, the Lufthansa Group feels particularly bound by these guidelines. They are the basis of our business activities and part of the Group’s strategic positioning as well as that of its individual subsidiaries. In the same way, the SDGs are reflected in the Lufthansa Group’s significant action fields. Of particular relevance are the climate goals, the responsible use Awards and ratings of resources, adherence to social and ecological compatibility of innovation and digitalization projects, the promotion of female Sustainability analysts and rating agencies regularly evaluate the employees in management positions and the improvement of Lufthansa Group’s activities according to the criteria of responsible working conditions. Additionally, the Lufthansa Group is particularly corporate management. In 2016, the Lufthansa share was again committed to the areas of education and enabling through the represented in the sustainability indices MSCI Global Sustainability, help alliance, its charitable organization. FTSE4Good and ECPI (see page 9, Annual Report 2016). The Lufthansa Group has participated in the annual CDP reporting Diversity Charter and initiative since 2006. Every year, this nonprofit organization conducts the “A matter for the boss” largest climate ranking worldwide, for which companies provide comprehensive information and data concerning CO2 emissions, reduction strategies and climate risks on a voluntary basis. In this The Lufthansa Group places great emphasis on diversity within the way, the aviation company informs capital markets and other stakeCompany. For this reason, the Group is a signatory to the Diversity holder groups in a transparent manner about its climate protection Charter, among other such initiatives. The goal of this initiative is to strategy, programs and measures to reduce CO2 emissions. With advance the acceptance, appreciation and inclusion of diversity in a climate scoring result of “B” in the CDP Climate Change Report German companies and institutions. Since June 2016 the aviation 2016, the Group achieved the status of “Sector Leader Transporcompany has also been committed to to the initiative “A matter for tation” in the DACH region and thus ranks among the best in the the boss” (see page 65, Diversity and equal opportunities). industry in Germany, Austria and Switzerland. In 2016, the Lufthansa Group and Munich Airport jointly hosted the CDP DACH Climate Leadership Award Conference, whose motto was “Climate protecFounding member of BDL and A4E tion in civil aviation”. The Lufthansa Group is a founding member of the German Aviation Further information on prizes and awards that the Lufthansa Group Association (BDL), which has represented the interests of Germany’s and its subsidiary companies have received in the context of coraviation industry with a single voice since December 2010. Furtherporate responsibility is shown on page 103. more, the Company is among the founding members of Airlines for Europe (A4E). This association was founded at the beginning of 2016 and represents the concerns of European airlines and their passengers. Carsten Spohr, the Chairman of the Executive Board and CEO of Deutsche Lufthansa AG, assumed the A4E’s presidency in February 2017. STAKEHOLDER DIALOGUE: THE MOST IMPORTANT ACTIVITIES IN 2016 AT A GLANCE Customers • Four forums specifically aimed at retail investors • Customer surveys on a global basis • Again two issues published of Shareholder information letter for • Regular ascertainment of Net Promoter Score (NPS®, see private shareholders page 54) • In addition to annual and interim reports, the capital markets • Monthly customer in-flight magazines and regular newsletters are informed monthly about the latest traffic developments at • Lufthansa InTouch Service Centers ensure 24-hour reachability the flying companies of the Lufthansa Group concerning all questions on flight reservations • All publications, financial reports, presentations, background • New format “Lufthansa Flying Lab”: Passengers can experience information and speeches, current news and relevant dates can innovative services on board “live” on selected flights, test them be consulted at www.lufthansagroup.com/investor-relations and provide feedback • In 2016, the Lufthansa Group and Munich Airport were joint • Visitor service “Discover Lufthansa” assumes important function hosts of the CDP DACH Climate Leadership Award Conference. of customer care at largest location, Frankfurt. Made-to-measure The event’s emphasis was “climate protection in air transport” programs for German and international top customers as well as airport neighbors, associations, research institutions and partner universities of the Lufthansa Group Lawmakers and public administrations • Continuous and intensive exchanges with representatives from politics and administrations as well as participation in numerous Employees events and panel discussions • Group-wide employee survey “involve me!” (Quick Check, • “Policy Brief” and “Aeropolitics” are published by the Lufthansa see page 69) Group and SWISS respectively to inform decision-makers in • Realignment of internal Group media: With the product group politics, media and business about developments in the aviation “One” a new media architecture was developed for the Lufthansa industry and topics related to aviation policy Group and implemented at the beginning of 2016. This includes the monthly magazine “One”, the news app “One”, “eBase One” (news portal on the intranet) and “Connection One” (community Science and research on social intranet) • Numerous cooperations with scientific research institutions • Introduction of “Yammer” as a social media tool at Austrian • Participation in panel discussions and conferences, such as the Airlines 4th International Conference on Active Noise Abatement ICANA • Continuation of the dialogue forums for cabin and cockpit 2016 in Frankfurt employees • Participation in aviation cluster “Hamburg Aviation” to promote • New format “CabCon”: dialogue events for flight attendants business location and interlinked research as well as developat Lufthansa ment of high-quality products and services • Continuation of the dialogue series “Speaking openly...” with the Lufthansa Group’s CEO at varying Company locations and live transmission on the intranet Neighbors and local communities • Continuation of the dialogue series “Breakfast with the Executive • Regular information events and discussion round-tables with Board” in different business segments representatives of state and municipal governments at the • Live chats and dialogue events for different employee groups Lufthansa Group’s hubs and managers • Participation in the “Forum Airport and Region” in Frankfurt as • Continuation of the event format “Market conferences”: dialogue well as in the “Vienna Airport Dialogue Forum“ events with managers and the Lufthansa Group’s CEO in different • Since May 2015, LSG Sky Chefs has been a member of “LEEN business regions (2016 in Nairobi, Panama and Tokyo) 100” (Learning Energy Efficiency Network) initiated by the city of • New format “Alumni Network”: It offers former employees the Frankfurt for improved CO2 values in the Rhein-Main area option of staying in contact with the Lufthansa Group (see • Lufthansa CityLine has been a member of the fifth “Environmenpage 71) tal Pact Bavaria” since September 2015. Its goal is to give incentives to sustainable development and continuous improvement of corporate environmental protection in Bavaria Shareholders, investors and analysts • Participation of Lufthansa Technik and LZ-Catering in “Environ• Continuous and intensive shareholder dialogue mental Partnership Hamburg” and of Lufthansa Technik in • Beyond the quarterly conferences, Executive Board members Frankfurt in “Environmental Alliance Hesse” and Investor Relations presented the Group’s latest developments to institutional investors through 38 roadshows and 21 investors’ conferences as well as one “Expert Session” on the subject of Eurowings 24 // Sustainable Business Practices Ethics and integrity Ethics and integrity are significant components of entrepreneurial practice at the Lufthansa Group. It is a matter of fact for the Group to adhere to current laws and voluntary commitments, and to consciously respect ethical principles. An important consideration is that business conduct characterized by integrity is a key prerequisite for the Company’s long-term success. The Lufthansa Group takes its orientation from the United Nations’ Compliance and anti-corruption Global Compact (see page 26) in particular, but also from the United Nations’ Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the Compliance describes all measures that ensure the lawful conduct four core work standards of the International Labor Organization of companies, their executive bodies and employees. The Lufthansa (ILO). Suppliers must take these standards and principles into Group Compliance Program, established in 2004, aims at helping account as much as the Group’s environmental guidelines. its employees adhere to current legal norms and keeping them from breaking the law. During the reporting year it comprised the modules The Lufthansa Group pays particular attention to realizing exemCompetition, Integrity, Capital Market and Embargo Compliance. plary company management in the sense of effective corporate governance. It expresses this approach by means of company Group Compliance Office management and control aligned with responsible and sustainThe Group-wide implementation, development and communication able methods of increasing the Company‘s value. This approach of the Lufthansa Group Compliance Program is the responsibility of to management meets high international standards and is of central the Group Compliance Office, which is part of the central Legal importance to maintain transparency in the relationship with shareDepartment. It is supported by a worldwide network of compliance holders and to increase trust in the Company’s management on a managers at the Group companies. continuous basis. Furthermore, the Group Compliance Office advises Lufthansa Group Significant foundations in this respect are the German Stock Corpoemployees worldwide on how to handle issues related to integrity, ration Act and the German Corporate Governance Code. The comcompetition, embargo and capital market compliance. The pliance declaration concerning the German Corporate Governance Company’s internal Compliance Guidelines provide the basis for Code, which was updated in December 2016, has been published such consultations. These regulations give employees a binding on the Internet at www.lufthansagroup.com/investor-relations. framework for action to ensure standardized and law-abiding conIn addition, the Lufthansa Group is listed in the joint transparency duct across the Group. The Lufthansa Group is not willing to tolerate register of the European Commission and the European Parliament. violations of law on the part of its employees. The Group Compliance The goal of this register with public access is to increase the transOffice coordinates the investigation of circumstances relevant to parency of decision-making processes on a voluntary basis. compliance and in this context serves as a contact point for cartel Simultaneously, it aims at ensuring that interactions between EU and investigative authorities, with whom the Lufthansa Group coopinstitutions and organizations, associations and corporations are erates without reservation. Culpable breaches of law lead to conseconducted in conformity with current laws and carried out on the quences under labor law and may also entail personal liability. basis of ethical principles. Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2017 // Lufthansa Group // 25 Competition Compliance Embargo Compliance The module Competition Compliance introduces employees to The module Embargo Compliance serves to ensure that the the relevant regulations of competition and cartel legislation, so Lufthansa Group, as a globally active corporation, adheres to as to minimize or exclude risks for the Lufthansa Group. All countryand person-specific sanctions and regulations in the employees handling issues relevant to competition or cartels are area of foreign trade. The Embargo Compliance Guidelines provide trained in the fundamental regulations of German and European the employees concerned with a binding framework of conduct. antitrust legislation. Compliance training Integrity Compliance Automated IT processes ensure that all employees participate reguWith the module Integrity Compliance, the Lufthansa Group docularly in those web-based compliance trainings that are relevant for ments its fundamental approach of law-abiding conduct in business them. The employees of the subsidiary companies also have access relationships. The obligation to adhere to non-corrupt and ethically to these e-Learning courses and are either included in automatic correct conduct flow naturally from current law, the internal Commailings of materials or have their own company-specific processes. pliance Guidelines and self-set obligations related to the Group’s In addition, the Group Compliance Office conducts trainings with memberships in relevant national and international organizations. personal participation worldwide and offers workshops. In 2016, Examples of the latter include the Lufthansa Group’s commitment about 20,000 employees worldwide completed the eCompliance to the principles of the UN Global Compact and its membership in trainings and/or trainings with personal participation relevant for them. Transparency International. The Integrity Compliance Guidelines provide support in handling invitations, gifts and other attentions. Third-party due diligence processes The Lufthansa Group expects compliance from its business partners Capital Market Compliance as well. Based on risk, business partners are therefore screened The module Capital Market Compliance gives employees an overby means of third-party due diligence processes before the beginview of current capital market law, such as regulations relating to ning of a business relationship. The appropriate processes are insider trading or ad hoc publicity. Accompanied by specialized currently rolled out Group-wide. training, this module ensures that all employees and Company bodies concerned receive in-depth insight into the regulations of Monitoring and reporting the German Securities Trading Act (WpHG). In keeping with current requirements in the framework of the German Accounting Law Modernization Act, self-audits and external audits take place to evaluate the effective implementation of the Compliance Program. Furthermore, the Supervisory Board’s Audit Committee is informed twice a year about current developments relevant to compliance issues within the Group. The Compliance Program of the Lufthansa Group Competition Integrity Capital Market Embargo Program consisting of four modules The Group Compliance Office is responsible for implementation, development and communication. The 10 principles of the UN Global Compact The UN Global Compact is the largest initiative worldwide Ombudsman system for responsible and sustainable corporate management. In A further basic component of the Lufthansa Compliance Program 2002 Deutsche Lufthansa AG was the first aviation group to is the globally implemented and proven ombudsman system, join this pact between the United Nations and corporations. which also allows anonymous information concerning possible The goal of the initiative, which was launched two years breaches of compliance. It serves as an additional preventive earlier, is to make globalization socially and environmentally measure against economic crimes. Relevant information can be compatible. The participating companies commit themsgiven by employees or by third parties to an ombudsman outside elves to aligning their business activities and strategies with the Company, by telephone, in writing or in person. The ombudsman ten principles that are recognized around the world. These function is fulfilled by Frankfurt-based lawyer Dr. Rainer Buchert, include: to respect human rights, to maintain minimum who is fully bound by the professional obligation of secrecy and standards and to fight against corruption. also has the legal right to refuse to give evidence to public investigative authorities. The ombudsman communicates any information he receives to Lufthansa while respecting absolute confidentiality Human rights concerning the name and identity of the informant. In this way, the disclosure of an informant’s identity to Lufthansa or to third parties • Businesses should support and respect the protection of without his or her consent is ruled out. international human rights within their sphere of influence and Compliance Risk Assessment • make sure their own corporations are not indirectly linked On behalf of the Executive Board, the Group Compliance Office has to human rights abuses. conducted a worldwide Compliance Risk Assessment (CRA) for the Lufthansa Group since the beginning of 2016. The goal is to improve the Group’s Compliance Management System over the long-term Labor by aligning it with compliance risks. Emphasis is placed on the identification and evaluation of risks to which the Lufthansa Group is • Businesses should uphold the freedom of association exposed with regard to the compliance modules Integrity and Comand the effective recognition of the right to collective petition. Selected items of information are also being gathered for bargaining; the compliance modules Embargo and Money-laundering. • eliminate all forms of forced and compulsory labor; • effectively abolish child labor; and The CRA covers all companies, business segments and units. For • eliminate any discrimination in respect of employment the ultimate holding companies and particularly risk-prone Group and occupation. companies, risks are determined on the basis of workshops. All other companies or majority-held companies are assessed by the compliance experts by means of questionnaires. At the end of Environment 2016, the CRA for the Lufthansa Group was 60 percent complete. All companies, business segments and units are to be audited • Businesses should support a precautionary approach to accordingly in the course of 2017. environmental challenges; • undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Human rights • encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. The Lufthansa Group is a member of the UN Global Compact, Transparency International, the German Network for Business Ethics and of institutions that support individual aspects of human Anti-corruption rights. In this way, the Group explicitly acknowledges its adherence to the respective standards and, implicitly, its respect for human rights. • Businesses should work against corruption in all forms, including extortion and bribery. www.unglobalcompact.org Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2017 // Lufthansa Group // 27 During the reporting year, the Lufthansa Group worked intensively Group Purchasing Guideline on the topic of human rights. One task was the development of a The Group Purchasing Guideline obliges suppliers to commit risk map for the Group that shows the number of employees by themselves to social and ecological responsibility. It is to be undergeographic region and the companies active locally. Complemented stood as an overriding specification for all procurement guidelines by risk assessment during the financial year 2017, this map is to at the Group companies. In addition, it serves as a handbook for serve as the basis for reevaluating existing processes and concepts. buyers and all employees with contacts to the procurement marIn the event of complaints concerning human rights issues, these kets. The regulations are updated and adapted continuously. are taken up in a decentralized format and treated with appropriate Among other considerations, it requires that these obligations be countermeasures on the basis of current law. included in contracts with suppliers: • Suppliers must comply with the ten principles of the UN Global Sustainability in the purchasing Compact just as much as the Lufthansa Group (see adjacent processes overview). • They must comply with the four core work standards of the International Labor Organization (ILO). These concern freedom The Lufthansa Group has more than 40,000 suppliers. The annual of association, the right to collective bargaining, the elimination purchasing volume is about 17 billion euros. The aviation group of forced labor and child labor, and prohibition of discriminademands of its suppliers that they fully comply with current law, tion in respect of employment and occupation. guidelines and regulations concerning fair competition, integrity • They must consent to announced and unannounced audits by and responsible practices. companies of the Lufthansa Group. • They must recognize the Lufthansa Group’s right to terminate Currently, the Lufthansa Group is working on realigning the purthe contractual relationship in the event of a breach of the chasing function, consisting of the Group companies’ purchasing aforementioned agreements. Suppliers must also observe the departments and the Group department Corporate Sourcing, by Lufthansa Group’s Environmental Protection Guidelines. merchandise groups and transferring it into a matrix organization. The restructuring was started in 2016 and serves to increase effiBy stipulating these commitments, the Lufthansa Group ensures ciency, lower costs long-term and prevent risks in the supply chain that sustainability is taken seriously as an issue and that it becomes even more effectively. There are also plans to anchor the topic of a way of life all across the supply chain. The aviation group trains sustainability even more profoundly in the supply chain. For this its purchasers at the Procurement Academy, its continuing educapurpose, nonfinancial ratios are to be developed to be able to better tion program across business segments. measure sustainability-relevant aspects in the procurement process. LUFTHANSA CARGO The certified environmental management system operated by Lufthansa Cargo comprises internal and external audits at stations in Germany and abroad. During these checks, auditors also assess how the logistics partner ensures that they adhere to local environmental laws and implement Lufthansa Cargo’s environmental standards. In addition, the air freight specialist has agreed high standards in the contracts with its road feeder service partners who deliver air freight by truck within Europe, including consideration of the emissions norms of the trucks used for these services. Lufthansa Cargo carries out regular audits to check on whether the partner companies meet these requirements. 28 // Sustainable Business Practices Fleet development The Lufthansa Group counts on a modern, efficient and appropriately structured fleet and continues to invest in the latter’s fundamental modernization. By following this approach, the aviation group will be able to offer leadingedge product quality in the future and at the same time fly increasingly economically and quietly. In addition, unit costs can be further reduced. In 2016, the Lufthansa Group consistently continued the largest type of aircraft to taking delivery takes about three to five years. At fleet modernization program in its history and integrated a state-ofthe same time, Fleet Management calculates the optimum point in the-art fuel-efficient aircraft into the Group fleet almost every week. time for deploying an aircraft, which increases planning security for Altogether, the Company took delivery of 47 new aircraft during the distribution, network planning and technical services. reporting year, including eight long-haul aircraft. At the end of 2016, the Lufthansa Group fleet comprised 617 aircraft. With an Today, the Group’s network airlines essentially grow when older average age of 11.3 years it is younger than it was in the preceding aircraft are replaced by modern models with larger seat capacities year (see table page 31). and improved fuel efficiency – without a significant increase in the total number of aircraft. At the same time, the Lufthansa Group’s At the end of 2016, a total of 205 aircraft – 143 short-haul and fleet strategy has for some years aimed at reducing the number of 62 long-haul aircraft – with a value of 35 billion euros at list prices aircraft types, so that the harmonization of the fleet structure adwere on the Group’s order sheet; these are to be delivered stepvances more and more: The majority of aircraft is now manufacby-step by 2025. During the financial year 2017, the Lufthansa tured by Airbus and Boeing. In addition, aircraft produced by Group expects to take delivery of up to 38 new aircraft. manufacturers Bombardier, Embraer, Fokker and BAE Systems are operated on shortand medium-haul routes. The number of differThe fleet modernization also serves the purpose of maintaining the ent aircraft types will be further reduced over the years ahead, so Lufthansa Group’s high level of financial and operative flexibility. that complexity will decline and efficiency increase. Fleet harmoThe majority of aircraft is to remain financially unencumbered in nization helps reduce maintenance and acquisition costs, and the future and in the unrestricted ownership of the Group. For increase synergies, from pilot and cabin crew licensing to more additional acquisitions the Lufthansa Group strikes a balance bestandardized processes on board and stocking spare parts. After tween new and used aircraft. In this way, the Company is able to leaving the fleet, aircraft are either sold or recycled (see page 56, react flexibly to demand fluctuations and increase or reduce Balance 2016). capacity at short notice. An overview of the Group airlines’ fleet development: Forward-looking fleet management Lufthansa At the Lufthansa Group, Fleet Management steers the Group-wide fleet planning process and is thus responsible for the fleet’s size In January 2016, Lufthansa became the first customer worldwide to and composition, and assignments of aircraft to individual flying receive the Airbus A320neo. The airline took delivery of five aircraft companies. The newly introduced matrix structure ensures that the of this type during the reporting year, which flies in a new dimenCompany optimally bundles the technical knowledge available in sion of sustainability: The A320neo is more than 15 percent more the Group airlines. On the basis of market analyses and defined fuel-efficient than comparable predecessor models and is characparameters, experts select a type of aircraft and determine the terized by correspondingly lower CO2 emissions (see page 30 f., number to be ordered. The process from deciding on a particular Balance 2016). Furthermore, the 85-decibel noise footprint of an Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2017 // Lufthansa Group // 29 A320neo taking off is only about half as large as the comparable Furthermore, at the end of 2016 the airline received its first Airbus contour of an A320 in the existing fleet (see page 58, Balance A350-900, which is considered the world’s most modern and 2016). Thanks to new engine technology and an advanced cabin environmentally friendly long-haul aircraft. The A350-900 consumes interior with up to 180 seats, the A320neo is about 20 percent 25 percent less kerosene and produces 25 percent less CO2 more cost effective. According to current plans, Airbus is to deliver emissions (see illustration below). It consists of up to 70 percent five further A320neo aircraft to Lufthansa in 2017. high-tech materials such as composites, titanium and aluminum alloys. The combination of these materials increases corrosion For all continental routes Lufthansa now relies on a fleet that only resistance and reduces the aircraft’s weight, which has a positive comprises aircraft from the A320 family; on December 31, 2016 it effect on fuel consumption. Thanks to its advanced engines and consisted of 167 aircraft of types A319, A320 and A321. The airline weight reductions, an A350-900 taking off is considerably quieter operated its remaining Boeing 737-300s for the last time on Octothan comparable types of aircraft. Its noise emissions are far below ber 29, 2016 in scheduled operations. Their decommissioning required threshold values. brought an era spanning almost 50 years to an end at Lufthansa. The Airbus A350-900: A new dimension of flying More efficient use of space A new cabin arrangement uses Innovative 25 x A350-900 space more efficiently, provides light concept The first 15 aircraft will be increased seat pitch in Business 12 light scenarios have a posistationed in Munich. Class and more seating capactive influence on the passengers’ ity in Economy Class. biorhythms. More environmentally friendly and quieter 25 percent lower kerosene consumption and thus 25 percent Aerodynamic wing lower CO2 emissions, and conState-of-the-art design siderably quieter than comparable types of aircraft. materials The wings adapt their shapes 70 percent of the aircraft conto different flight phases. This sists of state-of-the-art materials: helps reduce fuel consumption. New Rolls-Royce compound materials (53 perengines cent), titanium and advanced The new XWB engines are aluminum alloys are used in among the most efficient models combination. for large passenger aircraft. 30 // Sustainable Business Practices The Airbus A320neo is over 15 percent more The Airbus A350-900 is considered the world’s most fuel-efficient than comparable predecessor models. modern and environmentally friendly long-haul aircraft. The A350-900 sets new standards not only in sustainability, but SWISS also concerning passenger experience and technical equipment. Lufthansa will station a total of 15 of these aircraft at its Munich In 2016, SWISS replaced six Airbus A340-300 long-haul aircraft hub, of which the first three started scheduled operations in spring with the Boeing 777-300ER. Another four B777-300ERs are to 2017. Given its capacity and efficiency, this type of aircraft is ideal be integrated into the fleet by the end of 2018; two of them in for a hub like Munich, where it replaces the Airbus A340-600. In 2017. Thus, the airline complemented its original order of nine direct comparison, the A350-900 conserves 13.7 million liters per B777-300ERs in 2016 with one additional aircraft of this type. year on the Munich – Boston – Munich route. With the kerosene SWISS will equip the five A340-300s remaining in the fleet with saved, the A350-900 can fly 133 return trips between Munich and an entirely new cabin product. One A340-300 was taken over by Boston. Edelweiss Air as a rollover for an A330-200 and put into service in December 2016. On shortand medium-haul routes SWISS became the first airline World premiere: worldwide to operate the new C Series by Bombardier and phased SWISS received the first CS100 aircraft in 2016. in the first five CS100s in 2016. This aircraft is specifically designed for small markets and sets a new standard with regard to efficiency, environmental compatibility and comfort. Compared with the predecessor model, the Avro RJ100, perceptible noise is significantly reduced. In addition, CO2 emissions are 20 percent lower. SWISS has a total of 30 C Series aircraft on order, whose integration into the fleet is to be completed by the end of 2018. Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2017 // Lufthansa Group // 31 An Embraer 195 operated by Austrian Airlines Austrian Airlines In 2016, Austrian Airlines continued the replacement of its Fokker fleet, which began the previous year, with modern Embraer 195 medium-haul aircraft. By the end of 2016, the airline had added ten Embraers to its fleet. Another seven aircraft are on order and set to follow by the end of 2017. In addition, Austrian Airlines integrated two Airbus A320s from Lufthansa in its fleet during the reporting year. Eurowings The last CRJ900 left the Eurowings fleet in February 2017 and the airline now operates a homogeneous A320 fleet. This fleet harmoLufthansa Cargo nization strengthens the Eurowings concept, which is based on high efficiency, competitive costs and a scalable company strucAt the end of 2016, Lufthansa Cargo had five Boeing 777F freighter ture. This allows the airline the flexible integration of new partners aircraft in operation. This type is considered the quietest and most with different cooperation models. To this end, by the end of 2016 fuel-efficient freighter in its class and is characterized by its high Eurowings took delivery of a total of 33 Airbus A319 and A320 level of reliability and long range. The fleet also includes 14 Boeing aircraft from Air Berlin under a wet-lease agreement, meaning MD-11Fs, of which two will remain on the ground for the time complete with cockpit crews, cabin personnel and maintenance being, given the difficult economic environment. contracts. In 2017, the Eurowings fleet will continue to grow due to the consolidation of Brussels Airlines. The Lufthansa Group fleet As of December 31, 2016 (changes compared to 2015) In possession1 Age 1 In operation 2 Age2 Lufthansa (including regional partners) 350 (– 26) 10.1 (– 0.5) 330 (+ 7) 10.2 (± 0) Eurowings (including Germanwings) 78 (+ 40) 11.3 (+ 2.5) 96 (+ 9) 10.6 (+ 0.2) SWISS (including Edelweiss Air) 89 (+ 1) 12.3 (– 1.7) 89 (+ 1) 12.3 (– 1.7) Austrian Airlines 81 (+ 2) 14.9 (– 1.2) 81 (+ 3) 14.9 (– 1.2) Lufthansa Cargo 19 (± 0) 13.5 (+ 1.0) 17 (– 2) 13.1 (+ 0.7) Lufthansa Group fleet 617 (+ 17) 11.3 (– 0.5) 613 (+ 18) 11.3 (– 0.4) 1 Aircraft in the Group‘s possession 2 Aircraft operated by the Group CLIMATE AND ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2017 // Lufthansa Group // 33 Strategy and management On a global scale, aviation is a growth industry and will need fossil fuels for an undetermined period of time. Among the significant effects of flight operations are above all climate effects as a result of CO2 emissions. However, for many years the industry has improved its energy efficiency and thus also its CO2 balance sheet: Despite marked growth rates, the share of aviation in worldwide CO2 emissions has declined, namely from 2.81 percent in 2000 to 2.55 percent in 20141. Apart from the climate-related effects, there are other environmenRisk management and tal burdens: During takeoff and landing, aircraft cause noise close to airports and have an influence on local air quality. In addition, organizational structures upstream and downstream activities consume resources such as energy and water, and produce waste materials, in particular in The entrepreneurial risks associated with climate change and airline catering and aircraft maintenance. noise tie the Lufthansa Group into a multidisciplinary, Companywide risk management process. These risks are also summarized Given this framework of conditions, assuming responsibility for in a risk chart, which is updated regularly. To steer opportunities climatic and environmental issues is a central concern for the and risks associated with the environment, the Group has developed Lufthansa Group. Guided by the aspect of materiality, the Company a range of mechanisms. They include the environmental strategy focuses its commitment above all on the “product of flying” and 2020, environmental programs and environmental management therefore on CO2 emissions and aircraft noise. The Group has set systems, among others (see page 35). itself the goal of increasingly limiting the environmental effects of flying. The primary objective is to meet rising mobility needs with The department Group Environmental Issues is responsible for environmentally competitive products and to continually raise ecothe Lufthansa Group’s definition, coordination and implementation logical efficiency in flight operations. This approach is guided by the of Company-wide strategies and measures with environmental Group’s environmental strategy 2020, which was adopted in 2008. relevance. It also acts as the interface with the Executive Board. In addition, all larger subsidiaries have their own environmental Concretely, the Lufthansa Group aims at reaching the objective of departments, an environmental commissioner or coordinator. improving its fuel efficiency by 25 percent from 2006 to 2020; at These experts meet twice a year at the Group-wide Environmental the end of 2016, it had realized 12.18 percent of this goal. SimultaForum to discuss current topics, exchange experiences and neously, the Company supports the ambitious climate protection develop new ideas. They also explain and prioritize risks and goals formulated by the international aviation industry. This includes opportunities from different perspectives. In addition, the Lufthansa improving fuel efficiency by 1.5 percent per year until 2020 and to Group maintains a comprehensive environmental database where realize transport growth after this date in CO2 neutral ways. By 2050 information from Group companies is gathered. This data is the the industry’s net CO2 emissions are to decline by 50 percent on basis for calculating ratios and key indicators. the basis of 2005. 1 Source: http://data.iea.org Central action areas Climate protection, and in particular fuel efficiency, active noise protection, energy and resource efficiency as well as sustainable innovation, research and development are the Lufthansa Group’s THREE QUESTIONS FOR: DR. KARLHEINZ HAAG central action areas with regard to climate and environmental VICE PRESIDENT GROUP ENVIRONMENTAL ISSUES responsibility. This approach was again confirmed in 2016 by the DEUTSCHE LUFTHANSA AG materiality analysis concerning the Group’s commitment to sustainability (see page 17 ff., Strategy and management, and page What did the aviation industry accomplish in 2016 21 ff., Balance 2016). in the area of climate protection? In October 2016 the International Civil Aviation Organization Climate protection (ICAO) adopted a global CO2 control system. This treaty, The fundamental approach for reaching the climate protection goals named CORSIA, is part of a comprehensive package of is the four-pillar strategy for climate protection developed jointly by measures and ensures that growth in international air transthe Lufthansa Group and the aviation industry. It combines technoport will be achieved CO2 neutrally from 2021. From that time, logical, operational, infrastructural and economic measures that airlines will have to buy compensation certificates for help reduce the direct CO2 emissions of the Group’s fleet of aircraft growth-related CO2 emissions. The Lufthansa Group wel(see page 36 ff., Fuel consumption and emissions). From both comes CORSIA and together with the entire aviation industry economic and ecological points of view, fuel efficiency in flight we have advocated global regulations for many years. Even operations in particular is an essential factor of success for the though CORSIA is a compromise, it is currently the best posaviation group. It can be improved above all by investments in new sible solution. Thus, a framework of conditions has been aircraft as well as by implementing efficiency measures in the defined that will allow the effective development and impleexisting fleet. Monitoring and optimizing fuel consumption and mentation of this resolution in the years ahead. We specifically thus also CO2 emissions at the Group level is the responsibility of support this process. the department “Flight Operations Efficiency & Innovation”. What does CORSIA mean for the EU Emissions Trading In 2016, additional highly fuel-efficient types of aircraft joined the Scheme for aviation? Lufthansa Group’s fleet, including the Airbus A320neo at Lufthansa In the future, CORSIA is to be applied as the sole, market and the CS100 manufactured by Bombardier at SWISS (see page based instrument aimed at regulating CO2 emissions from 28 ff., Fleet development). And this commitment is honored: In international flights. This also includes flights within the EU, October 2016, the international rating organization CDP awarded which will be included in the European Emissions Trading the aviation group the title “Sector Leader Transportation” within Scheme until 2020, according to the EU Commission. We the DACH region (Germany, Austria and Switzerland) in its annual expect that the EU system will be replaced by CORSIA with climate ranking (see page 17 ff., Strategy and management). worldwide validity after this date. Noise protection Which are the areas of emphasis for the Lufthansa For many years, the Lufthansa Group has actively worked for the Group’s Environmental Management in 2017? reduction of noise emissions inevitably associated with air transport. One focus will be on the certification of an environmental It is especially important to further lessen the noise burden on people management system for Lufthansa at its Munich hub. At the living close to large hubs by implementing active noise protection same time, work on our new Environmental Strategy 2030 measures. The Group’s commitment includes five dimensions: continues, which we will introduce in the course of 2017. In continuous fleet modernization, refitting the existing fleet, applicathis context, we are also analyzing if it would make sense to tion of optimized flight procedures, support for noise research and implement further central control parameters at the Group an open dialogue with stakeholders (see page 48). level and to interlink environmental care even more strongly with the Group’s strategy. We’re also working on implementing a new efficient software, aimed at further improving the capture, analysis and reporting of our environmental data. This application will also serve as a technical basis to expand the capture of environmental data step by step. Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2017 // Lufthansa Group // 35 Energy and resource efficiency Lufthansa is currently setting up an environmental management Under the motto “avoid, reduce, recycle” the Lufthansa Group system at its Munich location, which is expected to receive the works on continuously optimizing its energy and resource effiEMAS seal by the end of 2017. Thus, the airline is creating imporciency. In this way, the Group companies ensure that required tant instruments for steering and documenting its environmental resources, such as energy and water, are always used consciactivities at the Munich hub. The preparations for the certification entiously, both on the ground and in the air (see page 45 ff.). started in 2016, and included naming an environmental commissioner. Lufthansa is planning to extend the environmental Research and development management system to the entire airline as soon as it has been The Lufthansa Group cooperates with partners in science and implemented in Munich. research to drive innovation forward and to continuously improve its own environmental commitment on the basis of proven data. Swiss International Air Lines is evaluating the introduction of an Furthermore, the Group has supported climate research concerned environmental management system. with observing the Earth’s atmosphere for many years (see page 51). In addition, the Company participates in the further developAustrian Airlines is working on the implementation of an environment and use of alternative fuels (see page 40 f.). mental management system certified in accordance with ISO 14001. Its implementation is to be completed by 2020. External guidelines and memberships In the area of climate and environmental responsibility, the compaLufthansa Cargo has been certified according to ISO 14001 since nies within the Lufthansa Group take their bearings from voluntary 2008 at its location in Frankfurt and worldwide since the end of external guidelines and participate in numerous sustainable initia2015. The recertification due in 2017 will be carried out according tives. These obligations largely surpass the legal requirements. to the revised standard ISO 14001:2015. The new standard has more stringent requirements concerning risk assessment, stakeFor example, the commitment in the area of climate and environholder orientation, supplier management and the involvement of mental responsibility beyond the four-pillar strategy of the aviation top management. Furthermore, time:matters, an additional subsidiindustry is also based on the UN Global Compact and the United ary, is to be included in the worldwide certification. Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals (see page 17 ff., Strategy and management). In the area of noise protection the Lufthansa Lufthansa Technik has been certified according to ISO 14001 since Group applies the “Balanced Approach” guidelines of the Inter1999. The company has also operated a job safety management national Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO) for handling aircraft program validated in accordance with the international specification noise, which has been implemented in Europe by means of the OHSAS 18001 since 2008. Lufthansa Technik Milan, Lufthansa 2014 EU Regulation on Noise-related Operational Restrictions. Technik Brussels and Lufthansa Technik Aero Alzey were certified And with regard to energy and resource efficiency, the Group in accordance with ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001 for the first time companies act in accordance with Germany’s energy efficiency in 2016, and in addition the overhaul operations in Sofia, Malta, law. The activities of Lufthansa Technik, which joined Hamburg’s Budapest and Shannon were integrated into Lufthansa Technik’s “Environmental Pact” at its location in the Hanseatic city, are group certificate. All production-related locations are to be certified considered exemplary. by these two standards by the end of 2018. The LSG Group has run an internal environmental management Environmental management systems system since 2008, which comprises the ten core elements of ISO 14000. All facilities worldwide that are fully-owned by the airline The companies within the Lufthansa Group continuously expand caterer are covered by this system. The system’s components are their environmental management systems. This is an overview of the continuously supported by shortand long-term goals, activities current situation: and programs. In addition, the locations in Rome and Lisbon are certified according to ISO 14001. Lufthansa CityLine was the first airline worldwide to introduce a professional environmental management system in 1999 and pass LZ-Catering is working on introducing an environmental manageEMAS (Eco-Management and Audit Scheme), the most stringent ment system. The company is an Environmental Partner of the City European certification system. Since then, the program has been of Hamburg and has been a member of Ökoprofit since 2010. recertified annually. Simultaneously, the airline has been certified Since July 2014, LZ-Catering has offered at least one daily “CO2 in accordance with the international environmental standard friendly” main course at a large number of its company restaurants. ISO 14001. Individual temporary specials with regional ingredients complement the menu offers at selected locations. 36 // Climate and Environmental Responsibility Fuel consumption and emissions The Lufthansa Group maintains its specific fuel consumption at a low level: In 2016, the aircraft in the passenger fleets needed 3.85 liters of kerosene on average to transport one passenger over a distance of 100 kilometers. The efficiency record achieved in the two preceding years was a mere 0.01 liters lower. The Lufthansa Group’s absolute fuel consumption increased by from leisure travelers on long-haul routes from Asia and North 1.2 percent compared with the previous year. For many years, the America to Europe, especially in the second and third quarters. aviation group has successfully decoupled transport performance Similarly, strikes that were threatened and strikes conducted in from fuel consumption. Transport performance has increased by the context of negotiations concerning collective agreements 355 percent since 1991, while kerosene consumption rose by 189 have negative effects on passengers’ reservations patterns, percent (see graph page 39). SWISS was the most efficient Group among other factors. airline during the reporting year with an average specific fuel consumption of 3.44 liters per 100 passenger kilometers (see page 38). On the other hand, the new highly fuel efficient types of aircraft, such as the A320neo, A350-900 and the C Series, did not fully The development of specific consumption depends on numerous make their contribution to lowering fuel consumption during the factors, including overall load factor and passenger load factor. reporting year, as some of the first ones joined the respective fleets The overall load factor increased by 0.1 percent during the reporting only in the second half of the year (see page 28 ff., Fleet developyear, while the passenger load factor declined by 1.4 percent. ment). In addition, there are not yet enough aircraft of these types Another aspect with an effect on fuel efficiency was the geopolitical in service to have a palpable effect on the entire Group fleet, which developments during the reporting year, which led to weak demand comprises more than 600 aircraft. However, over the years ahead, phasing new aircraft into service will have a more distinct effect, so that the Lufthansa Group expects a significant efficiency increase. The Group therefore continues to aim at achieving the industry’s goal of an annual efficiency increase of 1.5 percent. Since 2006, the aviation company has achieved an improvement in fuel effiFuel efficiency in flight operations is a significant factor for success for the ciency of 12.18 percent. Lufthansa Group, both from an economic and an ecological point of view. CO2 emissions according to GHG Protocol The Lufthansa Group determines its CO2 emissions on the basis of the Greenhouse Gas Protocol (GHG Protocol), which divides emissions into three main categories (scopes). All direct emissions from flight operations, which are shown in the illustration as “Direct and indirect CO2 emissions of the Lufthansa Group”, were determined and verified on behalf of the aviation group in accordance with the European emissions trading scheme. Beyond that, the Group has recorded indirect emissions for some years, caused by its business activities. All recorded and calculated direct and indirect CO2 emissions are verified externally (see page 90, Verification statement). The so-called CO2 footprint helps the Lufthansa Group to identify and evaluate its significant environmental effects with greater precision, pursuing the goal of developing more effective options for reduction as the next step (see page 41 f., Balance 2016). Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2017 // Lufthansa Group // 37 Fuel efficiency as a central action area Fuel efficiency also ensures that air transport can meet future chalFuel efficiency is of central importance for the Lufthansa Group, in lenges. Aviation is and will remain a growth industry. As transport particular as fuel expenditure is a significant cost item for the Comvolumes rise strongly, absolute fuel consumption and thus emispany. But the Lufthansa Group is motivated not only by economic, sions also increase – despite continuous efficiency gains. In 2016 but also by ecological considerations to use the required kerosene alone, the number of passenger kilometers sold worldwide inas efficiently as possible. Doing so contributes to reducing the creased by 6.3 percent compared with the preceding year, aceffects of flying on people and the environment, and securing the cording to figures published by the International Air Transport Company’s success over the long-term. Moreover, fuel efficiency Association (IATA). According to IATA forecasts the number of is an important expectation on the part of stakeholders and one passengers is to nearly double by 2035, from 3.8 billion in 2016 to prerequisite the Lufthansa Group must meet in order to fulfill nation7.2 billion, with the strongest growth expected in the Middle East al, regional or industry-specific energy and emissions regulations and the Asia-Pacific region. The Lufthansa Group and the entire (see page 33 ff., Strategy and management). Through the action aviation industry prepare for these future challenges with ambitious areas “Continuous efficiency increases” and “Innovation and climate protection goals (see page 33, Strategy and management). digitalization” the topic is also anchored in the strategic program “7to1 – Our Way Forward”, which helps secure the Lufthansa Group’s future viability. Direct and indirect CO2 emissions of the Lufthansa Group 2016 Scope 2 0.7 % 275,161 tonnes Indirect CO2 emissions of electricity Scope 1 and energy purchases for ground 76.4 % 29,250,821 tonnes operations, including catering and maintenance. Direct CO2 emissions from the Lufthansa Group’s flight operations and ground traffic of own vehicles as well as own energy-generating facilities. Scope 3 22.9 % 8,774,231 tonnes Further indirect CO2 emissions along the supply chain and from purchased services, here essentially the emissions from the kerosene supply chain and those related to the manufacturing of aircraft and engines. P a s s e n g e r t r a n s p o r t a t i o n 2 0 1 6 1,2 Specific fuel consumption and CO2 emissions Specific fuel consumption in liters per 100 passenger kilometers (l /100 pkm) and specific CO2 emissions in kilograms per 100 passenger kilometers (kg /100 pkm) 3.85 l / 100 pkm 9.71 kg / 100 pkm / 60 % Long-haul 3.51 l /100 pkm 8.85 kg/100 pkm / 25% Medium-haul 3.98 l /100 pkm 10.02 kg /100 pkm / 15% Short-haul 5.86 l /100 pkm 14.77 kg /100 pkm Lufthansa Eurowings 69 % Long-haul 62 % Short-haul 3.66 l /100 pkm 4.76 l /100 pkm 9.22 kg /100 pkm 12.00 kg /100 pkm 3.88 4.46 l /100 pkm l /100 pkm 9.78 20 % Medium-haul 11.24 38 % Medium-haul kg /100 pkm 3.90 l /100 pkm kg /100 pkm 4.04 l /100 pkm 9.82 kg /100 pkm 10.19 kg /100 pkm 11 % Short-haul 6.31 l /100 pkm 15.90 kg /100 pkm SWISS Austrian Airlines 39 % Long-haul 3.07 l /100 pkm 66 % Long-haul 7.73 kg /100 pkm 3.12 l /100 pkm 7.86 kg /100 pkm 41 % Medium-haul 3.44 4.04 4.38 l /100 pkm l /100 pkm l /100 pkm 11.03 kg /100 pkm 8.67 28 % Medium-haul 10.17 kg /100 pkm 3.89 l /100 pkm kg /100 pkm 9.81 kg /100 pkm 20 % Short-haul Short-haul 7.35 l /100 pkm 6% 18.51 kg /100 pkm 8.07 l /100 pkm 20.33 kg /100 pkm Deﬁnitions of trafﬁc areas: Long-haul more than 3,000 km | Medium-haul 800 to 3,000 km | Short-haul under 800 km F r e i g h t t r a n s p o r t a t i o n 2 0 1 6 2,3 Specific fuel consumption in liters per tonne kilometers (l/tkm) 0.280 l/tkm Specific CO2 emissions in kilograms per tonne kilometers (kg/tkm) 0.70 kg/tkm Decoupling of transport performance and fuel consumption2 Changes compared to 1991 in percent, values for the fleet of the Lufthansa Group 360 + 355 % 340 320 300 280 260 Efficiency gain 240 Transport performance 220 200 180 160 + 189 % 140 120 100 80 60 40 Fuel consumption 20 0 1991 1992 1993 1994 1995 1996 1997 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 1 Average specific fuel consumption in l/100 pkm as well as the shares of the respective traffic Airlines and Lufthansa Cargo. Excluding services of third parties as the Company cannot areas in total passenger fuel consumption influence their performance. 2 All scheduled and charter flights operated by Lufthansa (including Lufthansa CityLine and 3 On the basis of freight tonne kilometers (FTKT), transported on both cargo and passenger Air Dolomiti), Eurowings (including Germanwings), SWISS (including Edelweiss Air), Austrian aircraft. For further environmental ratios refer to the chapter Service and information, page 86 f. Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2017 // Lufthansa Group 40 // Climate and Environmental Responsibility Organizational foundations types A350-900 and A320neo as well as the state-of-the-art longThe Lufthansa Group’s department Flight Operations Efficiency & haul type Boeing 777-9. Innovation manages all projects concerning the issue of fuel efficiency. Its experts have the task of identifying, developing and Research and use of alternative fuels implementing approaches, concepts, projects and processes in The use of alternative fuels represents another step towards the air flight operations that are aimed at improving the flying Group transport of the future. As biokerosene has a significantly lower net companies’ fuel efficiency continuously and over the long-term. CO2 balance sheet value, it allows a sustainable reduction of emissions from flight operations. Following this approach, the conflict of objectives that arises from growing demand for mobility worldwide Four pillars for climate protection and finite resources of fossil fuels can be resolved. The Lufthansa Group undertook some pioneer work to this end in 2011, when it The aviation industry’s established four-pillar strategy, which comtested the use of biofuel in regular flight operations for about six prises numerous environmentally relevant measures, serves as a months as a trial run in the context of the project “BurnFAIR – guideline for all fuel-efficiency activities pursued by the Lufthansa Potentials of alternative fuels in operational conditions”. In addition Group. Its scope ranges from technical progress and infrastructure to its own research work, the aviation group has been actively improvements to operative measures and economic instruments. committed for many years to a number of initiatives such as aireg (Aviation Initiative for Renewable Energy in Germany) and SAFUG (Sustainable Aviation Fuel Users Group). Pillar 1: Technological progress In February 2015, an interim report was published for the EU The most effective way to further decrease fuel consumption is to research project “High Biofuel Blends in Aviation”, an initiative invest in advanced and highly efficient aircraft and engine techjointly launched in 2013 and since carried out by the Lufthansa nologies. In 2016, the Lufthansa Group consistently continued the Group and the German Armed Forces’ Research Institute for largest fleet modernization program in its history (see page 28 ff., Materials, Fuels and Lubricants (see page 55, Balance 2014). Fleet development). The Group expects to take delivery of 205 The two partners have gained important insights into the blending aircraft by 2025, including more aircraft of the highly eco-efficient characteristics of conventional fossil kerosene types and various Four pillars for climate protection 1 2 3 4 Te c h n o l o g i c a l Improved Operational Economic progress infrastructure measures measures N 3 33 6 30 E W 12 24 15 21 S • Innovation in aircraft and • Improved use of airspace • More efficient aircraft sizes • A global, sensibly designed, engine technologies •  Airport infrastructures • Optimal flight routes market-based system for • Alternative fuels adapted to needs and speeds reducing emissions to • Optimized processes on complement the other the ground three pillars Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2017 // Lufthansa Group // 41 Lufthansa Technik’s EVE test unit on the test bed in Hamburg. In this setup, DLR scientists and Lufthansa jointly analyzed the emission-related effects of biofuels. The EVE test unit is a CFM56 aircraft engine equipped by Lufthansa Technik with additional measuring instruments for test purposes. new biokerosenes in the context of this project. The final report was aviation infrastructure. For this purpose, the European Commission completed in 2016; it contains additional significant insights into set up the SESAR (Single European Sky ATM Research) program. the emissions characteristics of biokerosene and has been pubThe goal of this project is to develop, test and implement Europelished on the European Commission’s website. wide new technologies, procedures and standards that contribute to harmonizing and optimizing European air traffic management. In 2016, the Lufthansa Group refueled its aircraft at Oslo Airport with a fuel blend that contained 5 percent biokerosene. Air BP The Lufthansa Group’s airlines and Lufthansa Systems are actively Aviation, the Norwegian airport operator Avinor and the biofuel involved with their respective expertise in a number of SESAR specialist SkyNRG joined forces to offer jet biofuel to airlines servresearch and demonstration projects as well as standardization ing Gardermoen Airport. For a period of one year, Air BP Aviation initiatives. The synchronization of SESAR with its American counfed 1.25 million liters of sustainably produced and appropriately terpart “NextGen” as the basis for global interoperability of air certified biofuel into the tanks at Oslo Airport. During this time, traffic control systems has a high priority in this context. The first about 5,000 flights operated by the airlines of the Lufthansa Group modernization package was integrated by the European Commisflew on jet fuel blended with biokerosene. They included Lufthansa, sion in the Pilot Common Project (PCP). The implementation of SWISS, Austrian Airlines, Germanwings and Brussels Airlines. these technologies in daily operations is jointly coordinated by the members of the industry consortium “SESAR Deployment Manager”. Lufthansa is a member of this consortium and provides its own Pillar 2: Improved infrastructure experts. Since the start of the introduction phase in 2014, the first positive effects from optimized routings and flying times have been Single European Sky observed in the daily operations of airports, air traffic control orgaThe largest climate protection project in European aviation is to nizations and airlines. establish a standardized airspace above Europe. This Single European Sky (SES) will help airlines emit 10 percent less CO2 and save In 2016, the Lufthansa Group’s experts participated in the following about 5 billion euros in fuel costs every year. Today, however, three demonstration projects, among others: about 60 air traffic control centers are responsible for air safety in 27 different national systems with more than 650 sectors; a system In the framework of the project Free Solutions, whose goal is the that does not always allow aircraft to follow an optimum route to introduction of more direct flight routings under scheduled flight their destinations. conditions, 68 flights were able to travel on such routings in Europe. The routes from Frankfurt to Nice, Málaga, Algiers, Barcelona and The goal of SES is to remove this kind of patchwork and to steer air Valencia as well as the route from Munich to Paris could thus be traffic flows substantially more efficiently than is currently the case. shortened permanently. The quantity of kerosene saved in this way An important milestone on the path toward the Single European each year corresponds to the fuel burn of about 200 flights between Sky is the standardization and modernization of the European Frankfurt and Zurich. 42 // Climate and Environmental Responsibility SWISS is actively involved in the validation project iStream. Since mid-October 2016, the concept has been binding for approaches in Zurich and makes a sustainable contribution to cutting kerosene consumption and CO2 emissions. Pillar 3: Operational measures Operational measures include the deployment of efficiently sized aircraft; the improved utilization, testing and introduction of new flight procedures; as well as the determination of optimum flight routes and flight speeds. These are complemented by programs for long-term weight reductions, the development of intelligent software tools and the introduction of increasingly more efficient processes on the ground. Company-wide, the experts at the Lufthansa Group implemented a total of 183 fuel efficiency projects in 2016, which reduce CO2 emissions by 620,000 tonnes per year. This quantity of fuel conserved is enough for an Airbus A320 to fly once daily from Frankfurt to Berlin and back for one-and-a-half months. The emphasis during the reporting year was placed on projects concerning SWISS was able to demonstrate in the project iStream – together engine modifications (see table) and projects involving flight planwith Swiss air traffic control authority skyguide and Zurich Airport ning and management. – that targeted coordination between air traffic control and airlines can help avoid capacity bottlenecks in approach traffic and shorten In addition, the Lufthansa Group concluded the introduction of approach distances. With iStream, the number of holding patterns lightweight trolleys in 2016. Since the project’s launch in 2011, flown during the morning flight bank at Zurich Airport was reduced about 30,000 service trolleys have been replaced by new models by 96 percent, while the average approach distance flown was cut that weigh about 35 percent less than their predecessors. by 30 percent. The concept has been binding for approaches in Zurich since mid-October 2016 and makes a sustainable contriMore lightweight containers and pallets bution to cutting kerosene consumption and CO2 emissions. Its Meanwhile, Lufthansa Cargo plans to replace all standard conexpansion to the airports Paris Charles-de-Gaulle, Paris Orly and tainers with more lightweight variants by 2020. At the end of 2016, London Heathrow is planned for 2017. the air freight specialist had replaced almost 70 percent of its containers, including all units of the AKE type. The replacement of the In the context of the project Augmented Approaches to Land (AAL), AKH air freight containers is currently underway, and about 50 the evaluation of test flights was used by Fraport, DFS, Lufthansa percent of the DQF model has also been exchanged for a lighter and others to determine if a more precise adherence to the flight successor. In addition, Lufthansa Cargo is cooperating with the path, supported by new flight procedures, might make controlling subsidiary Jettainer to find a solution for more lightweight pallets. the distribution of noise emissions more effective (see page 50). In 2016, approaches were flown for this purpose in Frankfurt and In combination with other measures, such as polishing fan blades, Bremen, among other locations, with the A380 and B747-8 fleets, the more lightweight containers also have a positive effect on the and additionally with three A319s specifically equipped for these strategic partnership between Lufthansa Cargo and the transport trials. In 2017, further aircraft in the A320 family will be specifically and logistics provider DB Schenker. Since the beginning of the equipped and test flights will be continued in Frankfurt. cooperation in 2011, the two partners have already avoided emitting 10,000 tonnes of CO2. Another 10,000 tonnes of emissions are to be avoided by 2020. Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2017 // Lufthansa Group // 43 “Sharkskin” saves kerosene a two-year test phase for the riblet structure. During this time, the In the framework of the research project FAMOS, Lufthansa Technik research partners will assess the riblets’ durability in flight opera– together with its partners Bremer Werk für Montagesysteme (bwm), tions and the visual appearance of larger riblet-covered surfaces, Airbus Operations GmbH and the subcontractor Fraunhofer IFAM in particular with regard to surface dirt. – is working to develop a highly automated system to apply lowdrag microstructured surfaces for commercial aircraft (see page At the same time, Lufthansa Technik further developed its efficient 10, Balance 2015). The so-called riblets resemble the fine ribs on engine wash Cyclean® during the reporting year. Thanks to this the scales of fast-swimming sharks and are therefore referred to as highly efficient cleaning method for aircraft engines, airlines are artificial sharkskin. Thanks to a reduction of air resistance, this able to reduce their kerosene consumption by up to 1 percent (see innovative technology is expected to help conserve up to 1.5 perpage 51, Balance 2016). Currently, more than 40 airlines worldcent of fuel. On December 2, 2016, the Lufthansa “sharkskin” wide use Lufthansa Technik’s Cyclean® product. A total of about plane took off to Montreal for its maiden flight, marking the start of 80,000 Cyclean® engine cleanings have already been performed. To p t e n m e a s u r e s f o r t h e s u s t a i n a b l e r e d u c t i o n o f fuel consumption and thus CO2 emissions Expected annual Project duration / CO2 savings implementation Airline Measure in metric tonnes period SWISS • Global Dispatch Network (GDN) and Godwit, including mis40,114 2014 2017 sion support, offers new planning options and policies that will reduce fuel burn substantially Lufthansa • The Trent 500 engines of the aircraft type Airbus A340 are 32,494 2012 2020 to be modified by the installation of optimized components • Service trolleys were exchanged step-by-step for lighter 30,621 2011 2016 models • Fuel calculation principles were changed to avoid unnec28,273 2015 2016 essary transport fuel, while maintaining safety reserves. • The Trent 900 engines of the aircraft type Airbus A380 are 15,145 2013 2020 to be modified by the installation of optimized components •T  he Trent 700 engines of the aircraft type Airbus A330 are 25,253 2012 2019 to be modified by the installation of optimized components • Long-haul flights were monitored in the air and supported 12,026 2014 2016 with up-to-date information • The flight profile optimizer calculates the optimum flight 11,011 2014 2016 profile (altitude and speed) more accurately with the inclusion of current weather data than was previously possible and flight profiles are displayed on the “Electronic Flight Bag” (EFB) in the cockpit • All records required for a flight’s operation are provided 9,689 2016 electronically in the “Electronic Flight Folder” (eFF) on the “Electronic Flight Bag (EFB) • 22 aircraft of the existing A320 fleet were retrofitted with 9,273 2013 2016 sharklets identical to those of the A320neo Pillar 4: Economic measures Economic incentive systems are to be understood as a complement to the preceding pillars. For the Lufthansa Group, the most effective instrument in this area is a worldwide-valid, market-based and competition-neutral system for CO2 compensation (also called carbon offsetting). At the beginning of October 2016, the community of states adopted a global climate agreement covering air transport in the context of the United Nations’ International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO). By means of this global, marketbased climate protection instrument, also known as CORSIA (Carbon Offsetting and Reduction Scheme for International Aviation), growth-related CO2 emissions in international civil aviation are to be compensated from 2020 by CO2 savings achieved by climate protection projects. This makes air transport the first industry worldOMEGA “TRACKS”: SMALL wide to have its own climate agreement. So far, 66 nations repreSAVINGS WITH GREAT EFFECT senting 86.5 percent of international air traffic have already voluntarily joined CORSIA. The Lufthansa Group – together with the Since the end of 2016, pilots in all Lufthansa cockpits have aviation industry – has supported a climate agreement for many had the option of having the so-called OMEGA “Tracks” years (see page 34, Three questions for: Dr. Karlheinz Haag) and displayed. The eponymous software helps pilots find the welcomes that a decision by consensus among states has been shortest route by analyzing flight tracks stored in the flight reached at United Nations level. data recorder. The tracks thus generated for the current flight are fed back into the pilots’ briefing. The pilots see By contrast, the EU currently still applies an emissions trading these on the electronic navigation map in the cockpit. scheme, which is applied to all intra-European flights. In the opinion Thanks to the displayed shortcuts from previous flights, of the Lufthansa Group, insular solutions of this kind are the wrong pilots can actively request such tracks from air traffic control, approach, as they unilaterally burden European airlines in contrast if appropriate. With the introduction of OMEGA “Tracks” the to airlines outside Europe. Other options for limiting the effects of distance flown has been reduced by 1.1 nautical miles (nm) CO2 emissions from air transport are voluntary CO2 compensation on average on short-haul routes and by 3.5 nm on long-haul schemes. The Group airlines Lufthansa, SWISS and Austrian Airlines routes. Is it actually worth doing? It certainly is. Extrapolated as well as the Lufthansa subsidiary AirPlus have offered their custo all flights, Lufthansa conserves about 8,500 tonnes of tomers such programs for many years (see page 56, CO2 comkerosene per year. This quantity corresponds to the fuel pensation). needed for about 80 flights from Munich to San Francisco. The next step is to have all other Group airlines use this new technology as well. Areas of emphasis in 2017 The Lufthansa Group will consistently continue its efficiency programs and fleet modernization in 2017. In addition, further potentially efficiency-increasing measures include intelligently combining different data sources by means of business intelligence tools such as Qlik or Tableau. Moreover, Lufthansa will use the software OMEGA, which it developed together with Honeywell Aerospace, and in particular the module “Tracks”. The goal is to analyze data collected in flight and provide these insights to pilots through feedback loops. Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2017 // Lufthansa Group // 45 Energy and resource management Keeping air transport’s effects on the environment as limited as possible is one of the Lufthansa Group’s most important concerns. First and foremost, the aviation group continuously focuses on increasing fuel efficiency in flight operations. But attention is equally given to ground activities with the aim of applying sustainable and responsible business practices. Making economically and ecologically efficient use of energy and Within the new matrix organization the Group invests in cooperaresources is of decisive importance in all business segments across tion between its companies in the area of energy management the Lufthansa Group. In addition to meeting legal requirements, it with the goal of creating synergies and strengthening the exchange is important for the Group to identify sustainable potentials for the of best-practice examples. Group-wide monitoring makes it possisparing use of electricity and water, and to develop corresponding ble to implement energy conservation measures rigorously and to solutions. Equally important are measures to reduce and recycle obtain an overview of all savings potentials. Against this backwaste materials. Another essential approach on the ground is to ground, the Lufthansa Group at its Frankfurt location has particiimplement energy-saving and resource-conserving measures in pated in the Business Energy Efficiency Network of utility Mainova. planning, modernizing and constructing buildings. This endeavor is based above all on the Group’s strategic environmental program, which was implemented in 2008 (see page 36, Balance 2015). Greater efficiency, lower energy Possible energy-related optimizations in buildings are particularly discernible from results of energy audits in accordance with the EU consumption Energy Efficiency Directive (EED). At energy-intensive service companies Lufthansa Technik and LSG Group, the topic of energy management has a particularly high EU Energy Efficiency Directive priority. For this reason, both use their own concepts and systems that are tailor-made for the particularities of their business activities. Since December 5, 2015, companies above a certain size in the EU have been obliged to undergo an energy audit at least once Lufthansa Technik every four years. Accordingly, 120 Lufthansa Group companies Specialized environmental protection solutions for customers and were audited during the reporting year to meet this deadline. corresponding measures concerning the company’s own work Among other feedback, these audits produced more than 300 processes and locations are of central importance for Lufthansa suggestions concerning the improvement of energy efficiency of Technik. A proprietary building standard, applied company-wide, buildings. In general, audit results serve the aviation company as a helps the leading provider of MRO (Maintenance, Repair & Overbase from which to continuously optimize its energy management. haul) services to further increase the energy efficiency of its locaThe initial contacts for all questions in this area are the experts at tions worldwide. In addition, the Lufthansa Technik Group launched the department Facility Management, Standards and Steering. a carbon-save program. Its goal is to reduce CO2 emissions by 30 percent by 2018, compared with 2012. At the end of 2016, more than 60 percent of this reduction had already been achieved. 46 // Climate and Environmental Responsibility LSG Group Onboard waste analyzed In recent years the LSG Group has initiated numerous programs During the reporting year, Lufthansa and LSG Sky Chefs employees aimed at conserving energy and water, and continued this approach analyzed the waste from 20 long-haul and 50 short-haul flights in during the reporting year. In addition, the airline catering subsidiary Munich in the context of a so-called empty-out campaign. The goal of the Lufthansa Group is planning to increase the recycling ratio in was to determine the share of reusable materials in waste trolleys, 2018, which is measured by the Key Performance Indicator (KPI) thus demonstrating the potential of “Flygreener”. The next step for “Waste per meal in grams”. the participating experts is to define new processes to ensure that recyclable materials are better presorted on board, for example by The KPIs of the LSG Group also comprise water consumption per using a recycling trolley and alternative liquid disposal. The cammeal and energy per square meter of operations surface. In 2013, paign will be repeated in Munich in 2017. In addition, “Flygreener” the company introduced two additional KPIs: energy consumption is planning to sort and analyze the complete load of service items per meal and waste quantity recycled as percent of total waste. on four long-haul aircraft in Frankfurt. Furthermore, it defined new KPIs per region for the period 2017 to 2020. Sustainable construction The Regional Environmental Manager (REM) responsible for a certain area implements the LSG environmental programs in coopThe Lufthansa Group is guided by energy-saving and resourceeration with the regional management team and also accompanies conserving considerations in all aspects concerning its buildings. the monitoring. Further components of this process are employee In this context, it takes current standards into consideration for new training and local workshops on the subject of sustainability. In construction and modernizations or energetic optimizations of addition, the LSG Group is a member of “LEEN 100” (Learning existing buildings. In 2016, the aviation group already implemented Energy Efficiency Network), which was jointly initiated by the City a portion of corresponding recommendations that were drawn of Frankfurt and business consultancy Arqum with the goal of from the EED audits for energy savings in buildings. The remaining improving CO2 values in the Rhine-Main area. recommendations are currently being evaluated. Among the concrete measures that produce energy savings are Waste and recycling management setpoint adaptations, timer switch profile adaptations for ventilation and air conditioning systems, and changing to light emitting diodes (LED) in hangars. For example, in 2016 Austrian Airlines replaced its hangar lighting in Vienna with an LED system, leading to sustainable savings of energy and avoidance of CO2 emissions for the airline. For 2017, the Lufthansa Group is planning to change Permanently reducing waste quantities on board or increasing its further lighting systems to LED technology. recycling ratio are important considerations for the Lufthansa Group’s waste management. Beyond legal requirements, the internal initiative “Flygreener” contributes to reaching this goal Group-wide (see page Electricity instead of internal 57, Balance 2016). Its objective is to help reduce waste volumes continuously, especially in flight operations. In recent years the combustion engines aviation group has implemented numerous measures on this base, aimed at reducing waste quantities and improving related procesIn the area of electromobility, the Lufthansa Group sees itself in a ses aboard aircraft. pioneering role within the aviation industry. To shape resource efficiency even more sustainably, the Group researches and tests Specially trained flight attendants act as “Ambassadors on Board” this future-oriented technology in vehicles on the ground. In all and support crews with tips on how to cut waste quantities or recycle electromobility projects, the aviation group is guided by the more effectively. Furthermore, the Company regularly makes its objectives of the International Air Transport Association (IATA). flying personnel more aware of this issue by setting up information The individual projects are also part of the aviation industry’s fourstands. Over the mid-term, practice-related training, such as webpillar strategy for climate protection (see page 40 ff.). based courses for existing employees and trainers covering the topic in basic courses are planned. Close cooperation between the LSG Group and the Lufthansa Group’s hub airlines is set to create additional synergies. Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2017 // Lufthansa Group // 47 Lufthansa LEOS has had an electrically powered eTug in daily operational use since 2016. E-PORT AN drives electromobility May 2017. Tests are currently being planned for late summer 2017 to run trials of new processes. The goal is to increase operational Aviation still needs gasoline or diesel for vehicles on the ground. efficiency by means of these innovative tugs. A noise and emissions Continuously reducing fuel consumption and switching individual assessment by the Technical University Darmstadt showed a sigvehicle types step-by-step to electric propulsion technologies is the nificant reduction potential that can be realized when the aircraft’s ambitious goal of the initiative E-PORT AN at Frankfurt Airport. In engines remain switched off during taxiing. addition to the Lufthansa Group, Fraport AG, the State of Hesse and the Rhine-Main Model Electromobility Region are committed Addition to eTug fleet to this project. It is scientifically accompanied by the Technical In April 2017, Lufthansa LEOS ordered the second electro-powered University Darmstadt and the Technical University Berlin. The initiaeTug. The first aircraft tug of this type has been used in daily operative is supported by Germany’s Federal Ministry for Transport and tions since 2016. Smaller improvement potentials were identified Digital Infrastructure and in 2013 was honored as “Lighthouse in the context of the accompanying project, which will be taken Electromobility Project” by Germany’s Federal Government. During into account in the construction of the second vehicle. the reporting year, the project partners gave passengers the opportunity to discover more about the numerous electromobility activieLift – The catering lift truck of the future ties at Germany’s largest civil airport by visiting the first “Green With the project “eLift” LSG Sky Chefs pursues the goal of develGate” worldwide (see page 53, Balance 2016). oping the electric-powered catering lift truck of the future. Currently, the eLift is under construction and is to be delivered in July 2017. The project is a cooperation with companies Doll Fahrzeugbau and E-mobility projects at the Lufthansa Group Terberg as well as the Technical University Berlin. The use of electrically powered propulsion systems will lead to measurable reducTaxiBot test phase ended tions of all types of emissions, primarily noise and CO2. From December 2014, the Lufthansa Group and patent holder IAI (Israel Aerospace Industries) tested the pilot-controlled diesel-electro Independent of E-PORT AN, the Company regularly takes delivery hybrid aircraft tug TaxiBot in the Boeing 737 fleet in Frankfurt. As of new catering vehicles around the world. As a rule, these fulfill the last B737s left the fleet in October 2016 (see page 28 ff., Fleet the current emissions standards and thus offer improved fuel development), test operations involving scheduled Lufthansa flights efficiency. LSG Group is planning to replace a larger number of ended as well. A further important milestone was the TaxiBot’s older vehicles during 2017. EASA certification for the Airbus A320 fleet at the beginning of 48 // Climate and Environmental Responsibility Active noise protection For many years, the Lufthansa Group has applied numerous activities and measures to achieve a noticeable decrease of the unavoidable noise emissions in areas surrounding airports. The goal is to reduce noise at the source over the long-term and to develop optimized ﬂight procedures together with system partners. Continuous investments in modern and particularly quiet aircraft make a signiﬁcant contribution in this area. With regard to noise emissions, 610 of the 613 aircraft in the active ﬂeet of the Lufthansa Group fulﬁll the currently most stringent soNoise contours compared called Chapter 4 noise standard of the International Civil Aviation A350-900 vs.A340-300/600 Organization (ICAO), which has been in effect since 2006 for new aircraft (see overview page 100). The Chapter 14 standard, which is signiﬁcantly more strict, will take effect on December 31, 2017 Compared to previous models, the Airbus A350-900 shows a 40–50 for regional aircraft that are newly certiﬁed, and for all other types percent lower noise contour. The 85 dB(A) maximum noise level contours of aircraft on December 31, 2020. Aircraft of the latest generation, are shown for a takeoff with Lufthansa standard takeoff procedures and such as the Airbus A350-900, already fulﬁll the highly demanding maximum takeoff weight (MTOW). By comparison, a maximum noise level of 85 dB(A) is produced by a truck passing at a distance of ﬁve meters requirements of this standard. (16 feet) in city trafﬁc. Active noise protection is one of the Lufthansa Group’s central 10 km action areas. The materiality analysis developed in 2016 shows that the topic is “important” for the stakeholders and even “very 9 km important” for the Group (see page 17 ff., Strategy and manage8 km ment). The Lufthansa Group’s commitment to active noise protection comprises ﬁve dimensions: 7 km • Investments in more modern and thus quieter aircraft 6 km • Retroﬁtting of aircraft in the existing ﬂeet • Participation in noise research 5 km • Development of optimized ﬂight procedures in cooperation with system partners 4 km • Continuous dialogue and exchanges with people living close to 3 km airports, and other interest groups 2 km When implementing concrete measures, the Group always takes the factor of economic efﬁciency into consideration too. 1 km 0 1 km 0 1 km 1 km 0 1 km 1 km 0 1 km Airbus A350-900 Airbus A340-600 Airbus A340-300 MTOW: 268 t MTOW: 368 t MTOW: 271 t Source: Airbus, information as of: 11/2016 Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2017 // Lufthansa Group // 49 Investments in more modern aircraft Perceived Noise dB). This makes the A350-900 the quietest aircraft During the reporting year, the Lufthansa Group continuously purin the entire long-haul fleet operated by the Lufthansa Group. sued its fleet modernization and added a new aircraft to the fleet almost at a weekly rhythm. Among others, the Group airlines reOn shortand medium-haul routes, the Airbus A320neo is by far ceived Airbus A320neo, Airbus A350-900 and Bombardier C Series the most efficient and quietest aircraft thanks to new engine tech100 aircraft (see page 28 ff., Fleet development). As these advanced nology and improved aerodynamics. In January 2016, Lufthansa types of aircraft fly especially quietly, these investments mean a became the first customer worldwide to take delivery of this model. perceptible and sustainable lessening of noise emissions for peoIn comparison with an A320 in the existing fleet, the A320neo ple living near airports. features a noise footprint that is about 50 percent smaller (see illustration page 58, Balance 2016). In October 2016, Lufthansa In mid-2016, Swiss International Air Lines became the first airline phased out its last six Boeing 737-300s, so that the airline operates worldwide to start operations with the new Bombardier CS100. only quieter aircraft from the A320 family on its entire continental Compared with the aircraft operated so far, noise emissions during route network. takeoff drop by half with this model. As a result, with the C Series 100 SWISS makes an important contribution to the quality of life for Noise-reducing technologies for the existing fleet people near airports. As a replacement for the Avro RJ100 and the At the beginning of 2014, Lufthansa was the first airline worldwide A319 fleets, the airline has 15 CS100s and 15 CS300s on order, to start operations with an Airbus A320 equipped with noise-reducing and took delivery of the first CS300 at the end of May 2017. Incorvortex generators, thus setting an industry standard (see page 59, porating all 30 C Series is to be completed by the end of 2018. Balance 2016). In the meantime, Lufthansa Technik retrofitted all of the airline’s A320s with this type of vortex generator. At the same The Airbus A350-900 is another aircraft to fly especially quietly. time, Airbus only delivers new aircraft of this type equipped with Lufthansa started operations with the first aircraft of this type at the this modification. end of 2016. A new type of engine, the Rolls-Royce Trent XWB, weight reductions and an advanced aerodynamic design ensure In 2016, SWISS also equipped its aircraft of the Airbus A320 family that the A350-900 is significantly quieter during takeoff than comwith the noise-reducing vortex generators. This modification signifiparable types of aircraft. Compared with predecessor models, the cantly reduces noise burdens in the regions around Zurich and noise footprint of this long-haul aircraft is about 40 to 50 percent Geneva airports. In fall 2016, Austrian Airlines also launched the smaller (see illustration on the left). The noise emissions of the retrofit of its A320 aircraft with vortex generators, which is to be A350-900 are far below the required Chapter 3 noise standard and completed in summer 2017. In addition, the airline is assessing the fall below the Chapter 3 noise limit values by 31.9 EPNdB (Effective possibility of equipping its A319 and A321 aircraft with this technical improvement in the course of 2017. Retrofitting aircraft with vortex generators is another example that The Airbus A350-900 is significantly quieter shows how economy and ecology go hand in hand for many meaduring takeoff than comparable types of aircraft. sures. With this project, the Lufthansa Group makes progress in active noise protection and lessens the noise burden on people close to airports. On the other hand, there is a positive economic effect as, for example, noise-related fees at Frankfurt Airport are reduced. In an environment with intensified competition, the economic efficiency of such measures will increasingly gain importance. 50 // Climate and Environmental Responsibility The Lufthansa Group has been actively committed to noise research for many years. Participation in noise research airports in Frankfurt, Zurich and Bremen as well as German and The Lufthansa Group has been committed to noise research for Swiss air traffic control and the German Aerospace Center (DLR). many years, which helps create the foundations for successful The project’s objective was to demonstrate the advantages of measures in active noise protection. Only these involved and different approach procedures at airports of varying sizes. For this highly complex research and development projects lead to quieter purpose, the participating airlines conducted more than 360 test aircraft and engine generations as well as the desired optimizations flights, of which Lufthansa and SWISS flew the largest part with of the existing fleet. For the Lufthansa Group it is therefore very specifically modified A320 aircraft and standard-equipped A380 important to continue this ongoing cycle of intensive research as and Boeing 747-8 aircraft. The project group’s goal was to test the well as new technologies and products to obtain further efficiency DLR’s research results in an operational setting. On this basis, the increases in the performance of aircraft and engines. Continuous research partners were able to demonstrate that modern satellite exchanges between research partners also contribute to reaching navigation in combination with advanced approach procedures this goal. For this purpose, representatives of the Lufthansa Group can produce economic and ecological advantages. To ensure presented the Company’s activities and projects at the 4th Intersafety, all procedures were tested and validated repeatedly in national Conference on Active Noise Abatement ICANA 2016 in advance at Airbus or Lufthansa Flight Training in flight simulators. Frankfurt. Maintaining a dialogue with people close to airports Optimized approach and departure procedures For many years, the Lufthansa Group has maintained an open, Apart from developing new technologies, research is also focused intensive and neighborly exchange with people living close to airon further optimizing current navigation procedures. The Lufthansa ports and their municipalities. For example, at the Frankfurt location Group is active in numerous ways in this area, for example with the the Group has been involved since 2008 in the “Forum Airport and AAL trials (Augmented Approaches to Land) that began in 2015 Region” and was able to develop effective measures for noise and were part of the SESAR program (Single European Sky ATM protection in cooperation with the participating partners (see page Research, see page 36 ff., Fuel consumption and emissions). The 88 f., Balance 2013). The visible expression of this form of local interdisciplinary AAL project, which was one of the most ambitious dialogue is the information center at the Environment and Neighresearch projects in Europe, comprised 15 system partners from borhood House in Kelsterbach near Frankfurt. For its part, Austrian the aviation industry, including airlines, aircraft manufacturers, the Airlines actively participates in the “Dialogforum Flughafen Wien”. Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2017 // Lufthansa Group // 51 Commitment to climate research The Lufthansa Group cooperates with partners from the areas of science and research to advance industry innovations on the basis of sound data and to further improve its own environmental management. Furthermore, the Group has been committed to climate research for more than 20 years and thus makes an important contribution to improving climate models and weather forecasts. Commercial aircraft fly at an altitude that is of particular importance IAGOS: Setting up a worldwide for the Earth’s climate and therefore for climate research too. They also offer a high degree of continuity and in this way permit longresearch infrastructure term observations that would be impossible and far too costly with individual flights undertaken by research aircraft. In 2011, Lufthansa was the first airline worldwide to participate in the IAGOS project initiated by the research institute ForschungsDuring the reporting year, the Lufthansa Group had three aircraft zentrum Jülich (see page 61, Balance 2016). In 2015, the Lufthansa in operation that are equipped with specialized measuring instruGroup expanded its commitment for this novel type of long-term ments and able to measure atmospheric trace substances and research of the Earth’s atmosphere by means of scheduled flights cloud particles on a global basis. The data recorded are read out and equipped a second aircraft with specialized measuring instruafter each landing, processed and analyzed by research institutions. ments. Currently, five more airlines support this scientific large-scale project aimed at setting up a worldwide research infrastructure. In One of these long-haul aircraft, the Airbus A340-600 “Leverkusen”, 2016, it was honored as an outstanding infrastructure project by carries equipment for the project CARIBIC (Civil Aircraft for the the European Strategy Forum on Research Infrastructures (ESFRI). Regular Investigation of the atmosphere Based on an Instrument Container). Two further long-haul aircraft flew every day of 2016 in Among the equipment operated on IAGOS aircraft are instruments the service of the climate research project IAGOS (In-service for measuring the properties of ice crystals and water vapor. This Aircraft for a Global Observing System). allows insights into the global characteristics of high-altitude ice clouds – also called cirrus – whose deduction until now had only been possible by means of flights with research aircraft. The IAGOS analyses also allow researchers to compare cloud observations made by satellites with direct measurements at a scope not Climate research on scheduled flights possible before; in this way, satellite products used in applications such as weather forecasts can be improved over the long-term. www.iagos.org www.fz-juelich.de PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2017 // Lufthansa Group // 53 Strategy and management Offering a premium product is of fundamental importance for the Lufthansa Group’s business success. The objective is therefore to further increase customer satisfaction and primarily to implement measures for the safety and health of passengers, flight crews and employees. This includes the protection of personal data. In this way, the aviation group aims at always being its customers’ first choice. For the Lufthansa Group, product responsibility means above all Systematic determination of customer satisfaction optimizing the different services along the travel chain on a continTo learn as much as possible about their customers as well as uous basis and to make flying in all its facets a sustainably positive their wishes and expectations, the Lufthansa Group’s airlines experience (see page 68 f., Balance 2016, Sustainability in all conduct regular surveys. Thanks to these worldwide opinion polls, phases of the travel experience). In 2016, the aviation group intropossible approaches can be identified to improve customer orienduced additional programs and services aimed at further improving tation continuously and to secure the Company’s long-term success. the travel experience and thus also customer satisfaction. Concrete The further development of the feedback management process goals concerning customer satisfaction are also included in calcualso contributes to this evolution. lating the variable remuneration of the members of the Executive Board by means of a system of ratios (see page 80, Annual Report At the same time, the respective departments responsible make 2016). use of satisfaction values to pinpoint the strengths and weaknesses in quality perceived by passengers and to implement concrete improvement measures on this basis. In this way the Lufthansa Customer centricity and Group is able to check to what extent customers honor adaptations, quality focus improvements and innovations related to products as well as new services. “Customer centricity and quality focus” is one of the seven action The three hub airlines Lufthansa, SWISS and Austrian Airlines areas of the Lufthansa Group’s strategic program “7to1 – Our Way determine continuously how satisfied passengers are with the Forward”. These fundamental tenets serve the purpose of securing different offers along the travel chain. This is done daily by means the Group’s long-term success and value creation ability. The central of online surveys that are representative for each airline’s passenger importance of “Customer centricity and quality focus” was again volume and route network. Evaluations of individual products and confirmed during the reporting year by stakeholders and manageservices are compiled by the airlines into satisfaction indices for ment, as the materiality matrix and materiality analysis show (see onboard and ground products. In addition, they calculate an overpage 22 f., Balance 2016, and page 20 f., Corporate Responsibility: all satisfaction index on this basis. Action areas and goals). The focus has been placed on further enhancing the Lufthansa Group brands and the related brand In the past, Lufthansa, SWISS and Austrian Airlines pursued their promises. An additional goal is to understand customer needs own approaches for measuring their passengers’ satisfaction. In even better and to identify and realize optimization potentials on 2016, however, they launched a project aimed at harmonizing these a continuous basis. different paths and introducing a standardized and comparable measuring method in 2017. Net Promoter Score In parallel to the online surveys, since 2014 Lufthansa, SWISS and Austrian Airlines have determined the Net Promoter Score (NPS®)1 which places the focus on the travel experience as the airlines’ central product or service category. For this purpose, the airlines continuously survey their customers to find out if they would recommend the respective airlines to friends and acquaintances THREE QUESTIONS FOR: STEFFEN HARBARTH based on their travel experience. From the share of enthusiastic CHIEF COMMERCIAL OFFICER HUB MUNICH & SENIOR passengers the share of less enthusiastic ones is deducted. Top VICE PRESIDENT MARKETING COMMUNICATION management receives a monthly report on how the NPS® developed LH GROUP AIRLINES, RESPONSIBLE FOR THE ACTION at the individual airlines and at the Group airlines overall. Lufthansa AREA “CUSTOMER CENTRICITY AND QUALITY FOCUS” Cargo and LSG Sky Chefs also determine the NPS®. The Lufthansa Group is planning to introduce a harmonized method for NPS® The Lufthansa Group’s airlines intend to further improve measurements in the course of 2017 at the three hub airlines. The their passengers’ travel experience as well as their satisCompany is standardizing the measurements of customer satisfacfaction. What is important in this context? tion and NPS® with the goal of increasing, or at least maintaining, Excellent customer service and resulting from that a high level the respective values, based on concrete objectives. of customer satisfaction are based on consistent processes and a well-developed sense of service-mindedness. It is also important that the Group airlines live up to their brand promises. New programs and services To continue to be a customer’s first choice, we will need to think even more strongly from the customer’s position, recogIn 2016, the Group again introduced additional programs and nize trends and needs early on and develop corresponding services aimed at further improving the travel experience, comfort services. and thus customer satisfaction too. A key word is digitalization: What role will personalized More comfort for passengers services play in the future? The continuous modernization of the Group’s fleet (see page 28 ff., Personalized pitches are getting more and more important for Fleet development) makes an important contribution to meeting a service provider such as the Lufthansa Group. To view our this goal. The best example for this approach is the new Lufthansa own processes and products more from a customer perspecAirbus A350-900: Thanks to its wider cabin, passengers have more tive we launched the program SMILE some time ago. With the room and an agreeable experience of generous space. Furtherpersonalized products and services developed in the framemore, the characteristics of the A350-900’s construction lead to a work of SMILE, we serve not only changed customer needs, pleasant level of air pressure in the cabin at cruising altitude, so but we also create sustainable added value for those needs. that passengers arrive more rested. The new light concept also We would like to provide our passengers with individually makes a contribution to restful travel. Aboard its most modern and tailored offers concerning destinations and travel periods environmentally friendly long-haul aircraft, Lufthansa is the first – assuming their assent. This also applies to additional services, airline worldwide to use different light mood settings with the aim such as seat reservations, upgrades, rental cars and hotels. of affecting passengers’ natural day and night rhythms as little as By implication this means that we will not address offers to possible. In addition, Lufthansa takes advantage of light settings customers that are not relevant for them. to create a pleasant restaurant atmosphere during meal services on board. After the A350-900, the airline plans to retrofit its What are the areas of emphasis in the SMILE program Boeing 747-8 aircraft in the same way. in 2017? An important point will be to roll out SMILE to the hub airlines and other digitalization programs within the Lufthansa Group. In addition, during the next phase of SMILE we want 1 NPS® Net Promoter Score, a registered service mark of Bain & Co., Inc., to further expand our analytical infrastructure and industrialize Fred Reichheld and Satmetrix Systems, Inc. our models. This means that we will work in an automated mode in the future. By doing so, we want to allow real-time decisions for our Company. Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2017 // Lufthansa Group // 55 Customer centricity and quality focus are of central importance for the Lufthansa Group. SMILE Sustainable improvements at SWISS and Austrian Airlines Concurrently, since 2014 the Lufthansa Group has been working in Aiming at further emphasizing its distinctive customer focus, the project SMILE on making communications with customers along during the reporting year Swiss International Air Lines adopted a the entire travel chain as personalized as possible and to offer added new brand image centered on the claim “Made of Switzerland”. value in this way (see page 14, Balance 2015, Digital innovations The new claim comprises the most important characteristics that for a perfect travel experience). Thanks to SMILE, passengers receive define SWISS as a brand: “Swissness”, emotionality and strong tailor-made flight offers, travel information as well as offers for customer orientation (see page 45, Annual Report 2016). Furtheradditional services and options – all in real-time via digital commore, SWISS opened three new lounges in Terminal E at Zurich munication channels. These personalized service improvements Airport that offer long-haul passengers an entirely new kind of make an important contribution to deepening customer relationships comfort on an overall surface of 3,300 square meters, featuring and increasing customer trust. modern SWISS design. These lounges were constructed by local companies and meet current standards concerning water and SMILE is only one example of how actively the Lufthansa Group electricity consumption. Moreover, the new lounges in Terminal A has pursued its “7to1” action area “Customer centricity and quality and the Terminal in the Terminal will be constructed in the course focus”. The strategy is based on innovative approaches and techof 2017 in adherence to these technology standards. nologies that give a face to the IT terms of big data, analytics and open innovation. At the same time, such projects make an imporSimultaneously, SWISS works continuously on making passengers’ tant contribution to advancing the digital transformation of the entire actual flight experience increasingly sustainable. For example, Lufthansa Group. Like Lufthansa, the other two hub airlines have during the reporting year the airline replaced disposable packaging already introduced numerous personalized services. Many insights for economy meals on medium-haul flights with reusable bento that Lufthansa has gained in introducing such innovations have been boxes. This reduces waste quantities and thus increases cusincorporated into the implementation of these services at SWISS tomers’ and crews’ satisfaction. Since 2016, all vegetarian meals and Austrian Airlines. served aboard SWISS flights have been developed by Hiltl in Zurich, the world’s oldest vegetarian restaurant. And SWISS had Further new digital services the summer collection of amenity kits for Business Class manuIndependent of SMILE, during the reporting year the Group compafactured from 100 percent recycled PET bottles. nies introduced new digital services along the entire air travel chain that offer passengers further advantages. These include Internet Austrian Airlines now uses environmentally friendly packaging access on board and new digital applications such as the inTime made from cornstarch flour, for hot meals on selected flights. and Allergen apps (see page 12 f.). Such innovations are not limited to the travel experience, but begin far ahead of it. Flight safety and health protection The health and safety of passengers, crews and employees have the highest priority for the Lufthansa Group. To implement this fundamental concern without compromise, all Group airlines have comprehensive safety management systems. Furthermore, the aviation group is a world leader in researching the quality of cabin air. Flight safety The safety management system includes comprehensive monitoring of flight operations: The Group airlines’ experts track performance ratios, carry out audits and inspections, evaluate risks, analyze flight data and investigate incidents. All these measures serve the purpose of identifying and steering safety-relevant trends CO2 COMPENSATION at an early stage, achieving target values and guarding against possible undesirable developments. Beyond the legally required Passengers of the Lufthansa Group may compensate the CO2 reporting systems, Lufthansa operates a low-threshold confidential emissions unavoidably associated with their journeys by reporting system that is open to all employees. making a donation and thus a personal contribution to climate protection. Compensations are made through respected Standards and guidelines agencies that apply the most stringent standards in selecting With regard to their safety management systems, the Lufthansa and implementing the projects they support (see page 67, Group’s airlines take their bearings from legal requirements such Balance 2016). Offering voluntary CO2 compensation is an as EU guidelines, as well as regulations issued by the European established part of the aviation industry’s four-pillar strategy Aviation Safety Agency (EASA) and the U.S. Federal Aviation Adfor climate protection (see page 40 ff.) and the Lufthansa ministration (FAA). In addition, the airlines of the Lufthansa Group Group’s environmental strategy 2020. In 2016, Lufthansa fulfill all standards and recommendations of the International Civil Group customers again took advantage of the option to travel Aviation Organization (ICAO). Every two years, independent in a climate-neutral way. experts audit the safety standards applied Group-wide in an IATA Operational Safety Audit (IOSA). All Group airlines fully apply the The quantity of CO2 emissions that passengers of the hub internationally accepted IATA standards for air safety. These exterairlines Lufthansa, SWISS and Austrian Airlines as well as nal benchmarks are supplemented by the Lufthansa Group with AirPlus customers compensated during the reporting year internal guidelines, in particular the Executive Board’s Safety Comadded up to 23,900 tonnes of carbon dioxide. Thus, donamitment. All guidelines are compiled in the aviation group’s Safety tions of more than 355,000 euros were received for climate Management Manual and are additionally included in handbooks protection projects. The CO2 compensation payments made concerning flight operations, training, maintenance and groundby customers are channeled to certified climate protection handling services. projects in whose context climate-damaging energy sources are replaced with climate-friendly ones. Over the last five Organization years alone, about 2.1 million euros were invested in such At every Group airline, the safety management system is the resclimate protection projects in this way. To make even more ponsibility of a safety manager. The safety manager reports both customers aware of the option of a voluntary CO2 compensato the airline’s management and to the Group Safety Pilot, who tion, the Lufthansa Group is planning to further optimize its has Group-wide responsibility for evaluating and developing prorelated Internet offer. cedures and standards relevant to flight safety. He reports directly to the Chairman of the Executive Board and CEO of Deutsche Lufthansa AG, Carsten Spohr. Areas of emphasis in 2016 GERMANWINGS FLIGHT 4U9525 In 2016, the participants completed the research project “SaMSys – Safety Management System for the Improvement of Flight Safety”, Flight safety is always the first priority for the Lufthansa which is supported by Germany’s Federal Ministry for Economics Group. Therefore, the Group airlines implemented and Technology and headed by the Lufthansa Flight Safety Departnumerous measures to improve flight safety in the immediment in Frankfurt. The scientific insights from this project led to an ate phase after the Germanwings accident on March 24, expansion of the scope of training at Lufthansa and had an influ2015 (see pages 70 and 74 f., Balance 2016). Similarly, the ence on new recruitment processes. Another area of focus was the Group combined all tasks concerning the follow-up of the standardization of selection and training benchmarks for Lufthansa crash of flight 4U9525 and the comprehensive care for Group pilots at a high level. In 2017, the Group will concentrate on relatives in the so-called Post Emergency Organization adapting its safety structures to the new internal matrix organization. (PEO). For relatives, an ongoing offer of psychological care and psychosocial support was available in 2016 as well. Cabin air quality With the goal of supporting projects, initiatives and proposals from relatives and other affected groups in memory of the For many years, the Lufthansa Group has actively cooperated with victims, Lufthansa set up an aid fund in 2015, endowed with investigations of so-called smell events aboard aircraft. Together 15 million euros. In this fund, Germanwings and Lufthansa with national and international authorities, associations, research have combined their voluntary and long-term commitment institutes and manufacturers, the aviation company supports following the accident (see page 74, Balance 2016). During research concerning the composition of cabin air and its effect on the reporting year, projects and initiatives were supported the human body. In 2012, the Lufthansa Group set up its Cabin Air with 6.9 million euros from the fund, allocated according to Quality Review Board, whose members represent Flight Operabinding criteria. In addition, it has been important for Lufthansa tions, the Medical Service, Lufthansa Technik, Technical Operations and Germanwings from the beginning that young people Management and Group Job Safety. who have lost one or both parents in the accident should be able to complete a school education, professional training or EASA study confirms good air quality university studies that correspond to their personal preferOn March 23, 2017, the European Aviation Safety Agency presented ences and abilities. For this reason, Lufthansa decided that its final report concerning a study of cabin air quality aboard comthey receive voluntary payments from the aid fund, depending mercial wide-body aircraft. In it, EASA again reached the conclusion on age and whether they lost one or both parents, indepenthat there is no verifiable correlation between cabin air and health dent of compensation claims. A total of more than 5 million problems. In fact, the air quality on measuring flights was comparaeuros are available for this purpose, of which a large part has ble to that in normal indoor spaces such as classrooms or offices. already been paid out. Earlier series of measurements had reached the same conclusion (see page 71, Balance 2016). On March 24, 2017, a sculpture commemorating the victims was unveiled in Le Vernet in the French Alps. At a memorial In the context of the EASA study, the Fraunhofer Institute for Toxicoceremony that marked the accident’s second anniversary logy and Experimental Medicine (ITEM) and the Hanover Medical and in which more than 500 relatives from around the world School (MHH), together with the Lufthansa Group, Condor and participated, Carsten Spohr, Chairman of the Executive Board British Airways, analyzed air samples from cockpits and cabins, of Deutsche Lufthansa AG, handed over the “Sun Sphere”, which had been taken on 69 measuring flights on eight different created by German artist Jürgen Batscheider, to the beaircraft and engine types. On these flights, neither the thresholds reaved families. for harmful substances were exceeded, nor were substances found in concentrations hazardous to health. While miniscule quantities of TCP (tricresyl phosphate) were occasionally detected by the sensors on all aircraft types at the nano scale, the neurotoxic ortho-tricresyl phosphate (oTCP) was never found. 58 / Product Responsibility Additional filters being tested Guidelines and organizational foundations Independently of these studies, the Lufthansa Group carries out its The framework for secure data handling within the Lufthansa own procedural tests and technical adaptations. This commitment Group is defined by its Data Protection Guideline, which is based includes the installation of special HEPA/carbon filters, for example. on laws such as the FDPA and established principles of data proThese cabin air recirculation filters are equipped with an additional tection. It also specifies rules that ensure conduct in conformity layer of activated carbon and are intended to further increase cabin with data protection standards across the entire Group, and that air quality by removing volatile substances and compounds from make data protection risks transparent and guard against them. recirculated air more quickly. After initial tests on three Lufthansa The guideline also comprises regulations concerning responsibility Airbus A321s, the Group has extended the trial phase to Germanfor data protection in countries outside the EU and requirements wings A320s and all Lufthansa A321s, and complemented it with with regard to implementing third-party data processing. scientific monitoring. If the filters’ performance turns out convincingly, the Lufthansa Group will install them on additional aircraft. Data protection is the responsibility of the Executive Board member responsible for Finance and Aviation Services of Deutsche Transparent communications Lufthansa AG and the management of the respective Group comThe Lufthansa Group reports comprehensively about the topic of pany. In assuming this responsibility, they are supported by the cabin air quality in internal and external media. In addition, at sevCorporate Data Protection department. All companies that are eral Company locations experts from relevant Group departments required by law to appoint a data protection commissioner have inform flying personnel and technicians about measuring and done so. research results, technical analyses and innovations. Furthermore, the Group is planning to introduce a web-based training (WBT) for Furthermore, the Lufthansa Group has established a notification crews on the topic of cabin air. process for data protection and data security incidents. Complaints and information requests from concerned parties are processed in a timely and comprehensive manner within internally set deadlines. Data protection and data security As in 2015, the Lufthansa Group did not record a registrable infringement against data protection in 2016, according to FDPA rules. The careful, confidential and secure handling of personal data of customers, employees and shareholders has always been the first Targeted training priority for the Lufthansa Group. It is the basis for trustworthy busiTraining and informational measures concerning data protection ness relationships and a prerequisite for the Company’s long-term are aimed at familiarizing employees and managers with the success. The Lufthansa Group protects and secures data accordnecessity of data protection, the key terms, the organization of data ing to the highest standards. protection within the Lufthansa Group, and specific issues concerning individual areas. The web-based training course “The fundaThe Corporate Data Protection department ensures that Germany’s mentals of data protection” is mandatory for many Lufthansa Federal Data Protection Act (FDPA) is applied across the Lufthansa employees and must be completed every three years. In addition, Group. It familiarizes employees with the relevant legal provisions the Group offers specialized online trainings for certain target and conducts regular data protection audits. In addition, the Group’s audiences (see page 72, Balance 2016). data protection experts advise departments when new systems are introduced and procedures are designed or modified. A central International data protection regulations objective is to make employees and managers aware and thus Data protection regulations in other countries play an increasing enable them to identify and avoid data protection risks. As in the role for the Lufthansa Group due to its international operations. preceding year, the focus of consulting during the reporting year Conflicts arise in the airline industry in particular because foreign remained on the use of customer data in conformity with data authorities increasingly request passenger data. However, providprotection standards. Another area of emphasis was on providing ing such data would often be contrary to European data protection information and advice on the EU General Data Protection Regularules (see page 67, Balance 2015). In 2016, there were also some tion, which will come into full effect on May 25, 2018 after a twolegal changes with regard to data protection and data security that year transition period for all corporations in the legal sphere of the affect the Lufthansa Group: European Union or the European Economic Area (EEA). Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2017 // Lufthansa Group // 59 The Lufthansa Group applies the most stringent standards to data protection and data security. EU-US Privacy Shield After the European Court of Justice (ECJ) declared the Safe Harbor Agreement between the EU and the USA concerning the exchange of personal data to be invalid, the draft for a new agreement “EUUS Privacy Shield” concerning data transfers between the EU and the USA was presented on February 2, 2016 (see page 73, Balance 2016). In June 2016, the EU-US Privacy Shield was ratified and can now be applied, provided US companies conform to these new rules. As a further instrument, data transfers to the USA in conformity with current law – the so-called Standard Contractual Clauses – are available, and have to be signed by senders and recipients of data. New EU General Data Protection Regulation The European Parliament adopted the new EU General Data Protection Regulation on April 14, 2016, which will come into effect on PROTECT campaign as focus in 2016 May 25, 2018 (see page 73, Balance 2016). The Lufthansa Group Like many other companies, the Lufthansa Group is a permanent will adapt its existing data protection management system to this target for different cyber-attack scenarios. These include attempted Europe-wide standardized data protection law. Nevertheless, inditheft from mileage accounts of the frequent flyer and premium vidual national deviations from this norm will continue to be in program Miles & More, attacks on the availability of the Group’s application for the aviation group, such as those concerning the presence on the Internet and an increasing number of commerobligations to appoint data protection commissioners and with cially motivated attempts at fraud. Therefore, the Lufthansa Group regard to employee data protection. is reinforcing its activities in all areas to identify, combat and guard against criminal activity on the Internet. Simultaneously with the General Data Protection Regulation, the introduction of EU-wide regulations for transmitting Passenger Name For example, the IT department launched PROTECT in the fall of Record (PNR) data for flights outside the European Union and 2016; a comprehensive program aimed at increasing the Group’s optionally for flights within the EU to so-called Passenger Informacyber resistance. This includes process optimizations and investtion Units in the 28 Member States was set for 2018 at the latest. ments in technology. Among the program’s first building blocks Germany’s federal parliament adopted the corresponding law at was a cyber crime prevention and awareness campaign. Its objecthe end of April 2017, allowing implementation at the national level. tive was to demonstrate to employees and managers how farFor airlines this means above all more complex reservation and reaching their personal responsibility is in supporting the Lufthansa check-in processes. Group in its protection against cyber crime. The Group is only able to guarantee the protection of business and customer data when IT Security all employees act in a security-aware manner to complement The Lufthansa Group department IT Strategy & Security is respontechnical measures. As Lufthansa Group managers have a particusible for implementing requirements concerning data protection lar role in this context, security training with personal participation and IT security. This includes the development of appropriate was conducted specifically for this target group. In addition, concepts and measures such as e-mail encryption, cyber crime employees are continuously informed about IT security issues in prevention, and protection from criminal activity over the Internet. the Group’s internal media, by means of a Cybercrime Prevention Newsletter or quiz-based games. The Lufthansa Group’s information security policy is regulated on three levels: The Group Information Security Guideline is conFurthermore, the Lufthansa Group launched a bug bounty program cerned in a comprehensive way with the protection of processes at the beginning of 2017, aimed at identifying and removing securelated to information processing and storage. On the subsequent rity vulnerabilities in IT systems with help from invited hackers and level, a framework describes the Group’s information security research centers. The goal is to further improve the protection of management including the requirements on its implementations customer data. within Group companies. And third, detailed guidelines outline IT security aspects concerning specific topic areas, products, locations and target groups. SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2017 // Lufthansa Group // 61 Strategy and management At the end of 2016, the Lufthansa Group employed 124,306 staff worldwide, more than 68,000 of whom worked in Germany. Their know-how and wideranging talents are a significant success factor for the aviation group. As a socially responsible employer, the Lufthansa Group supports its employees with an attractive work environment as well as transparent structures and processes. Working at the Lufthansa Group has many facets. But the focus is The aviation group is actively involved in these topics to ensure that always on people. The Group aims at being the first choice for it will find suitable employees in the future and to secure the longshareholders and customers, and in particular wants to be the first term employability of current staff members. Furthermore, social choice in aviation for existing and new employees. To create an megatrends and developments – such as digitalization, globalizaattractive and need-oriented work environment, the Lufthansa tion and diversification of life and work-time models (see page 6 ff., Group counts on a self-motivated and trust-based work culture in Balance 2016, Changing working environment) – demand not only tandem with modern information technology. continuously increasing levels of flexibility, but also new competencies in work areas with high demand in the future. To increase the latter, the Lufthansa Group implemented an organizational Attractiveness as an employer restructuring that took effect on January 1, 2016. Taking the role of active sparring partners, the personnel departments at the In the materiality analysis carried out in 2016, stakeholders and top Group companies accompany and support the Lufthansa Group’s management confirmed the action area “Attractive employer” as current transformation process into an agile, process-oriented being very important. The decisive factors in this context are: relamatrix organization. tions between employer and employees based on fairness and partnership, high social standards (see page 68 f.) as well as offers for a balance between work and private life (see page 67). In addiCore topics “Culture and leadership” tion, the Lufthansa Group counts on a broad spectrum of training and continuing education options (see page 70 f.) and comprehenAs far back as 2012, the aviation company implemented specific sive health management to maintain the employees’ health and initiatives and effective measures to change both corporate culture ability to perform (see page 72 f.). and management culture across business segments. In July 2014, the Lufthansa Group introduced the strategic program “7to1 – Our Equally, diversity and equal opportunities are among the aviation Way Forward”, whose action area “Culture and leadership” has group’s central principles. For a service company with global acbeen an area of emphasis in HR management. The focus on “Cultivities and an international clientele such as the Lufthansa Group, ture and leadership” takes one consideration into account above promoting diversity among its employees continues to gain imporall. In an increasingly volatile environment, highly educated and tance (see page 63 ff.). This also includes increasing the share of committed employees who inspire customers are indispensable for women on all management levels at a continuous pace. the Lufthansa Group’s sustainable business success. 62 // Social Responsibility Shaping the action area “Culture and leadership” was transferred Modernization of working environments to the Lufthansa School of Business during the reporting year, which at the same time evolved into the Lufthansa Group CAMPUS. The future of professional environments is global, digital and Against this background, the alignment has changed from an connected. These changes are fundamental and hold both “interdisciplinary education provider” to “driver” of culture changes opportunities and risks. To optimally adapt working conditions for at the Group. The strategic realignment results from the conviction employees as well as HR processes to these developments, in 2016 that successful steps in the aviation industry are based on the the Lufthansa Group again focused on the modernization of working successful change of behavior patterns. Since the end of 2016, the environments. This includes, among other measures, the optimizaLufthansa Group CAMPUS therefore offers formats for developing tion of HR management, for example through measures that simulindividual (leadership) competencies as well as those to support taneously increase effectiveness and efficiency while decreasing team development and organizational change. The Lufthansa costs. Currently, the HR processes across the entire Group are Group CAMPUS thus takes a role in continuous and high-quality being harmonized in the context of the project “IT Transformation”. personnel development as well as in a long-term dialogue between employees and managers across the entire company. At the same The Lufthansa Group opens up further potentials by assessing time, it provides support for creating new structures and strengthdevelopment paths and proven programs for promoting junior staff ening the internal culture of trust. members and adapting and realigning them, if needed (see page 70 f.). In addition, modern desk-sharing models such as the “New Workspace”, which was rolled out at further locations during the reporting year, promote a self-motivated and trust-based work culture. These innovative solutions make a significant contribution to securing the Group’s future viability and value-creation ability over the long-term. Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2017 // Lufthansa Group // 63 Diversity and equal opportunities For the Lufthansa Group, diversity at management and staff levels is a fundamental prerequisite for remaining innovative and versatile. The Company has explicitly defined diversity as a strategic element that secures and expands economic success – in accordance with the interests of its employees and the social concerns of society. Systematic diversity and the appreciation of all employees associThe mere fact that the Group’s employees worldwide represent ated with it make an organization more agile, flexible and creative. 144 nationalities proves the diversity desired. Beyond that, the Diversity Management actively includes the life situations of all Company already represents the core idea of diversity very well: in employees in the entrepreneurial process and makes a significant the differences between business segments and business models, contribution to recognizing stakeholder needs more clearly and in the differences in employees’ competencies and experiences optimizing services. that flow from these differences, in the international links and in the diversity among customers and employees. In addition, the objecThe Lufthansa Group pursues a comprehensive management tive of diversity is reflected in the philosophy of talent management approach that understands diversity in the sense of versatility, variety as it is applied every day. Under the motto “Welcome diversity!” of ideas, blending of perspectives and strengthening of competitiveone objective of this leadership approach is to create a working ness. Diversity and equal opportunities are a significant element of environment in which all employees are increasingly able to shape the future-oriented strategy “7to1 – Our Way Forward”, where they – and should shape – their own careers within the Group accordare anchored in the action area “Culture and leadership”. ing to their talents (see page 83 ff., Balance 2015). Varied goals Welcome diversity! With its diversity-oriented personnel policy the Lufthansa Group pursues several goals. It aims at accessing the enormous potential of the existing diversity among its approximately 124,000 employees even better, and simultaneously to apply more diversity in profiles, competencies and experiences up to management levels. In doing so, it aims not only at making the Company’s organization more effective, but also at strengthening and increasing its attractiveness as an employer – above all against the backdrop of demographic change and the fact that talented young employees are not always easily found on the labor market. Employees in the Lufthansa Group: Key data 2016 Employees Group 124,306 Female employees Group 45.7 % / 34.1 % Share of women with staff responsibility / 15.6 % Share of women in management positions / 5.5 % Share of women in the cockpit Apprentices Job applications 1,178 110,000 For more data on personnel refer to the chapter Service and Information, page 88 Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2017 // Lufthansa Group Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2017 // Lufthansa Group // 65 Organizational foundations To reach these goals, diversity and equal opportunities have long since been firmly anchored in the Group’s organization. For example, among other measures the function of an equal opportunities commissioner at the Lufthansa Group has existed since 1995. Furthermore, since 2015 the working group Diversity@ LHGroup has treated the topics of gender balance in management, internationality and age structure on a Group-wide level. Additionally, the Lufthansa Group launched the project “Promoting women in management” during the reporting year (see page 66, Three questions for: Simone Marshall). Central action areas Diversity among staff and executives The Lufthansa Group approaches the task of realizing diversity and Women in management positions are a matter of course at the equal opportunities according to its objectives from four directions: Lufthansa Group, and their numbers are to be further increased. diversity among employees and in management positions, an At the end of the reporting year, 34.1 percent of supervisors with integrated link between work and private lives or work and family staff responsibility worldwide were women. This is an increase by (work-life integration), intercultural competence, as well as inclu0.2 percentage points compared with 2015. At top management sion. Activities and initiatives in each area make a contribution to level, the share of female managers worldwide reached 15.6 perachieving the goals that have been set. cent (0.7 percentage points higher than in 2015) and more than every 20th pilot was a woman (5.5 percent). However, the Group is not content with this result. Since the middle of 2016, it has been active in the initiative “A matter for the boss”; a network of managers from business, science, the social economy, the public sector and media, who feel personally obligated to equal opportunities for men and women. The initiative aims at supporting the necessary changes in society by acting as an example and providing new concepts and approaches. Also in 2016, the Group companies Delvag Versicherungs-AG and Eurowings participated in founding the Cologne-based alliance “More women in leadership”. The participating companies have set themselves the goal of jointly developing and implementing strategies for promoting women in management positions. In addition, the Group is bound by the voluntary self-set objectives of companies listed in the DAX 30 stock index to increase the share of women in management positions. THREE QUESTIONS FOR: SIMONE MARSHALL As far back as 2014, the Lufthansa Group signed the Diversity HEAD OF THE NEW PROJECT “PROMOTING WOMEN Charter. This corporate initiative advocates the firm anchoring of IN MANAGEMENT” DEUTSCHE LUFTHANSA AG diversity management at the executive level of German companies. Why was this project launched? Internally, equal opportunity has long since been incorporated into For a very simple reason: the number of female managers in collective agreements. The Company also specifically works on upper-level management positions has changed too little over filling more management positions up to executive board level with the last few years – despite numerous measures and increased women. The principle “Equal pay for equal performance” has been awareness within the Company. At the moment, 85 percent of applied at the Lufthansa Group since the 1970s. Wage agreements our managers are male (Leadership Circle 1-3)1. In this conand collective pay structures outside the agreed pay scale, which text, one needs to know that overall staff numbers are almost can be consulted by anyone, are proof of this principle. balanced, with 55 percent male and 45 percent female employees. I think this is reason enough to address the topic The Group concretely implements the objectives and goals of the more intensively. initiatives mentioned by means of various activities. For example, it has supported and accompanied female junior staff in their proHow do you proceed and what goal do you want to fessional rise for many years with cross-company mentoring in achieve with this project? multiple industries. The internal program “Go ahead” completed Our plan is to identify talented women Group-wide who might its third year in 2016; it is also addressed to women who aim at come into consideration for a managerial position either right management positions (see page 77, Balance 2015). away or in two to three years’ time, by working together with the individual business segments. These talents are then An important topic for internal communications was “unconscious offered personal advice and support. This might be mentoring bias”, a phenomenon of subconscious thinking patterns and their from a female or male top manager or individual career effects in personnel processes, for which the Group wants to raise counseling. In this way, a talent pool of young female manawareness in 2017 as well. A further positive stimulus for employee agers is created step by step. Already, senior executives ask diversity comes from the fact that the Company has defined new, me directly about talents from this pool. This is exactly our attractive conditions in personnel policy for employees who would goal, but also to create a pool of external female managers for like to change from one Group company as employer to another. key positions. As a member of the Leadership Board, my role In 2015, a transparent advertising process for vacant management is that of “diversity challenger” with the objective of placing at positions was introduced and in filling such jobs, diversity criteria least one woman on each shortlist per management position. are included. This works only in cooperation with personnel managers and executives. With additional measures, such as increasing the share of female new employees and trainees as well as women’s support programs, we’re working to increase the number of female managers by 2021. How do this and other Lufthansa Group projects aimed at promoting women differ? It is the personal and individual advice that makes the difference, in my estimation. To be a career coach for women, to establish or maintain contacts for them, is a very helpful and strengthening experience for many female junior executives. In the opposite sense, I am also the contact person for women who want a change. My work in HR Management Executives means that I have a Group-wide network of top managers who are pleased to be a mentor for a woman with potential, should the need arise. In addition to specific traineeships for women and internal women’s support programs, mentoring is one of the most effective support measures we can offer our women, in my opinion. 1 “Leadership Circles 1-3” signify the levels of senior managers at the Lufthansa Group. Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2017 // Lufthansa Group // 67 Leadership can be shared, too: The Lufthansa Group offers the option of job sharing management positions. Work-life integration: Family-aware Inclusion corporate culture For the Lufthansa Group, employment and inclusion of people with disabilities is not only a legal obligation, but also fulfills a social Traditional family and work models are undergoing change and responsibility and is thus an important goal of personnel policy. new models are gaining more and more importance. Today, the The Group is committed to promoting people with disabilities focus is increasingly on work-time models that take into account professionally and treating them fairly and caringly. Measures changing needs in different life phases. These not only allow for a designed to include people with disabilities are discussed and better harmony between working and family life, they also increase advanced in regular dialogue events involving top management, employees’ motivation and health. The Lufthansa Group supports HR management and representatives of the severely disabled. its employees and managers by offering flexible work-time models and provides detailed information on this subject on the intranet At the end of 2016, the employment rate for people with disabilities and in the context of various events. For example, the Company at the Lufthansa Group in Germany stood at 4.3 percent. While offers the options of filling managerial positions in tandem (shared some Group companies, such as LSG Sky Chefs, reach employleadership) or taking sabbaticals from work. In Frankfurt, Lufthansa ment rates of more than 20 percent and thus overfulfill the legally employees have the use of two parent-child offices together with defined minimum quota of 5 percent, the relevant employment at their children when there are difficulties with child care; in 2016, the passenger airlines is significantly lower due to legal requirethe Group extended this offer to its Hamburg location. Options ments. Therefore, the Lufthansa Group also takes advantage of such as the summer school vacation care program “Luftikusse” in other ways of supporting people with disabilities, such as placing Frankfurt and Munich, pme Familienservice at all German locations orders with Werkstätten für Behinderte Rhein-Main (see page 80) or the network Väter gGmbH (“Fathers, Inc.”) were continued or the cooperation with the National Paralympic Committee Gerduring the reporting year as well (see page 86 f., Balance 2016). many (DBS). After having signed the “Charter for care” in 2015, the Lufthansa Group has further intensified its internal communications on the subject of improved compatibility of work and caring for family members. 68 // Social Responsibility Employment policy based on partnership The Lufthansa Group’s success depends greatly on the ideas, enthusiasm and commitment of its employees. Therefore, the aviation company attaches the greatest importance to providing its employees with an attractive work environment and appropriate salaries. Likewise, it is an established tradition always to balance the economic interests of the Company with the expectations and needs of its employees. It is tried-and-tested Company policy to settle clashes of interests compensation rules, working conditions, and pension schemes. between Company management and the bodies representing Lufthansa defines these agreements in cooperation with internal employees in a transparent manner. A fair approach to coexistence labor committees and employees. The Company is a party to in all areas creates the balance needed to advance the Lufthansa collective wage bargaining with employees in about 25 countries. Group’s position in the market. The growing plurality of opinions In all countries where Lufthansa acts unilaterally, the Company and opinion leaderships, much like developments in society as a uses benchmarks and macroeconomic data such as inflation whole, is increasingly a challenge for all parties concerned. The figures to review salaries usually once a year on the basis of marguiding principles for joint efforts are flexibility and responsiveness. ket and competitiveness criteria. In countries with very high rates of inflation, this assessment is performed more often, given the circumstances, and usually leads to pay increases. In this way the Partnership in collective agreements Lufthansa Group offers continual review and adjustment of working conditions for its locally employed staff. As a signatory to the UN The Lufthansa Group employs its staff under conditions that guarGlobal Compact, Lufthansa has documented its support for freedom antee them social and material security not only during but also of association and the right to collective bargaining for all of its after their working years. These are established on the basis of employees worldwide (see page 26). Employees in any country collective agreements that the Company negotiates with its union where Lufthansa companies are active are free to lawfully organize partners Vereinte Dienstleistungsgewerkschaft (ver.di), Vereinigung themselves and become involved in defining their working condiCockpit (VC), and Unabhängige Flugbegleiter Organisation e.V. tions. (UFO). The goal is to treat all employee groups within the Company fairly and justly – a desideratum that the multiplicity of unions within the Company presents with an array of increasingly challenging New system for Company conditions. You can find the latest information on the ongoing collective bargaining negotiations at: pension scheme www.lufthansagroup.com/media There has been an attractive Company pension scheme for Lufthansa employees since 1994. The aviation group attaches Active pay and social policy abroad great importance to rewarding the performance of its employees in this additional way. In order to respond to the developments on Internationalization and globalization offer a broad range of opporthe capital markets as well as the consequences of demographic tunities for the Group’s business and personnel processes. As a change, the Group terminated the bargaining agreement with company with international operations, Lufthansa’s pay and social employees regarding the Lufthansa pension plan in September policies are guided by conditions in the various countries. The 2013. The goal was and remains to agree with the different collecfocus is on the long-term definition of the conditions of employtive bargaining partners on modern, market-oriented retirement ment, which depend on the needs of the employees, operational benefits that sustainably secure the Company’s competitiveness. requirements, and the local labor market – with the inclusion of Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2017 // Lufthansa Group // 69 Collective agreement concluded As a performance ratio, the EI is anchored in the Group’s strategy. with ver.di trade union in Germany It is important for the Lufthansa Group to keep this ratio current and On January 1, 2016, the new collective agreement “Lufthansa to feed the messages associated with its value into guiding the Pension Ground” took effect for the approximately 30,000 ground Company on a continuous basis. In years without a complete staff in Germany employed by Lufthansa, Lufthansa Cargo, Lufthansa “involve me!” survey the Executive Board calls for a “quick check”, Technik and LSG Sky Chefs. The proposed new system provides which is limited to those questions with relevance for determining fundamentally that in the future Lufthansa will pay contributions for the EI. For 2016 this short form of the survey resulted in an EI value each employee into an individual capital account (defined contribuof 2.4, after 2.3 in the preceding year. The external reference value tion system) and invest these funds on the capital market instead of or benchmark is currently 2.2. Even though the EI declined slightly guaranteeing pension levels (defined benefit system). Lufthansa compared with 2015, it can be called stable against the backpays 5.2 percent of the qualifying salary into a personal pension ground of the current restructuring process taking place within the account under this format. As a rule, existing employees covered Lufthansa Group. From 2018 the EI is anticipated to improve annuby collective agreements receive a transition-related and ageally and reach the level of the external benchmark in 2020. dependent contribution with a guaranteed fixed interest rate of 3.5 percent per year. Furthermore, these employees have the The Lufthansa Group is aware of the fact that merely measuring option of also receiving a contribution of 5.2 percent that will then employee commitment is not enough. The greatest challenge be invested on the capital market. Lufthansa guarantees that at comes after the survey is completed: Progress can only be achieved least the sum of the contributions paid in will be disbursed when if concrete measures are derived from the survey results and pension payments begin. In addition, each employee has the option employees can thus see that the Company takes their responses of further increasing the level of his or her Company pension by seriously. In 2016, the Group increased the number of its dialogue means of gross salary conversions. All pension entitlements previevents, and initiatives related to issues of corporate culture and ously earned under the Company pension scheme remain interdisciplinary teams. One example in this area is “culture4growth”, unchanged in any case. a program launched at Austrian Airlines in 2016. In addition to determining the Engagement Index, the Lufthansa “involve me!”: Group again calculated the Leadership Index (LI) in 2016 from data Employee commitment counts collected through “involve me!”. The LI is directed by the Group’s five Leadership Principles (see page 73, Balance 2015). For the reporting year, the LI remained unchanged from the previous year Regular employee surveys have for a long time been an important at 2.2 and is thus better than the external benchmark of 2.5. instrument for the Lufthansa Group to measure employee commitment, identify action fields and initiate change where needed (see page 82, Balance 2015). Program for professional reorientation “involve me!” is the name of the survey launched in 2015 and In 2013, the Lufthansa Group set up a program for professional carried out every two years in a standardized format across the reorientation. It continues to address employees who seek new Group. It allows management to make a direct comparison of data professional challenges within or outside the Group or who would from individual Group companies and initiate a transparent, Grouplike to become self-employed. The program thus makes an imporwide dialogue. The survey also serves as basis for the calculation tant contribution to shaping staff adaptation processes in socially of the “Engagement Index” (EI). This ratio was introduced by the compatible ways. Since the program’s launch, more than 1,500 Executive Board in 2016 and indicates to which degree employees employees have already used its confidential career counseling feel committed to the Company and to which degree they are services. It consists of various service modules, including comprewilling to lend their support to their employer (see page 90, hensive counseling concerning professional reorientation, active Balance 2016). The EI is based on input analogous to German accompaniment by counselors throughout the application process school grades and includes the components “Say” (willingness to as well as a Company-related job exchange. The content of the recommend), “Stay” (commitment to the Company) and “Strive” program was updated in 2016 and has been made available across (willingness). A high level of commitment follows from positive the entire Lufthansa Group in a need-oriented manner since 2017. responses to these three components. 70 // Social Responsibility Talent management For many years, the Lufthansa Group has attained top positions in renowned employer rankings. The fascination for jobs within the aviation group is unabated, as is demand with about 110,000 applications in the reporting year. Talent management has a central role in finding qualified and motivated employees and retaining them at the Group. The Lufthansa Group is planning to hire more than 3,000 new Finding and binding talents employees in 2017, including 1,400 flight attendants for the Frankfurt and Munich hubs. The employees’ talents, competencies and know-how are the foundation for the Lufthansa Group’s success. To ensure that Those interested can find paths into the Group’s working world via employees can apply their abilities optimally, the Group counts on the award-winning career portal Be-Lufthansa.com (see page 9, a corporate culture based on partnership, which is characterized Balance 2016) or via www.lufthansa-flugbegleiter.de. To idenby transparency, tolerance, diversity and respect in dealing with tify appropriate applicants for jobs in the cabin, the Lufthansa each other. Talent management serves as a central human Group now uses flight attendant castings as a new format. Since resource action area in this context – also with regard to training the first casting in 2016 in Munich, about 2,750 applicants have and continuing education. participated in this process. Subsequently, 450 future flight attendants have begun their training at the Lufthansa Group or comThe philosophy of talent management comprises nine core mespleted it (as of January 2017). sages and is borne by the guiding motto “Every employee has talent!” (see page 91, Balance 2016). The Lufthansa Group also Managers, employees and new hires benefit from the Group’s applies a comprehensive diversity approach in this area. Thus, it is comprehensive training and continuing education offers (see a particular concern for the Company to promote the career develpage 6 ff., Balance 2016, Changing working environment). In the opment of female employees, for example by offering appropriate reporting year, the Lufthansa Group offered more than 45 different support or mentoring programs (see page 66, Three questions for: entry options for high school and university graduates. At the end Simone Marshall). of the reporting year, 1,178 people were employed in the Lufthansa Group’s 27 training-based professions. Attractive employer The Lufthansa Group aims at remaining an attractive employer and increasing its attractiveness for external talents on a continuous An apprentice training to be a surface coating technician at Lufthansa Technik. basis. In this context, talent management is of decisive importance for finding suitable personnel for all management and employee levels (see page 61 f., Strategy and management), counteracting the increasing lack of qualified personnel and ensuring the availability of required competencies within the Company. The aviation group therefore develops a strategic talent pipeline which serves to increase its competitiveness, in particular in the competition for external talents. To reach its goals, the Lufthansa Group piloted three new formats for talent management in 2016. The visibility platform Spotlight on Talent is focused across business sections on internal talents in specific job families that are in high demand and will continue to Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2017 // Lufthansa Group // 71 The new format “TalentHub” allows the Lufthansa Group to more easily keep in contact with external talents. gain importance, such as finance and IT. Via the TalentHub, the second new format, the Group remains in contact with external talents more easily – for example with former interns who convinced with exceptional performance. The primary target group is job beginners and young professionals, who are an additional recruiting resource for jobs filled by external applicants. The third new format is the Alumni Network, which gives former employees the opportunity to remain in contact with the Lufthansa Group and to position themselves for possible reentry via job offers. Among the tried-and-tested talent management formats are the Junior Round Table, an onboarding program for academic job beginners, and the trainee program ProTeam. Both serve to retain exceptional personalities at the Company, as they contribute to the latter’s ability to innovate and be competitive. Shaping the future In 2016, the Lufthansa Group extended the standardized perforThe Lufthansa Group adapts to social changes in a continuous and mance and talent assessment instrument “Profile” to about 1,600 flexible process. This objective is also taken into account by the employees not covered by collective agreements. Overall, more Group’s trainee programs. Against the background of increasing than 5,000 employees were assessed with standardized tools digitalization (see page 4 ff., cover story #DigitalAviation), the “Produring the reporting year. Managers play a central role in this conTeam” applicants for the IT area are to be addressed and selected text as they give increasing attention to developing and promoting in a more targeted manner in 2017. The Lufthansa Group also talents, following the core message “Fostering Talent”. To follow plans to further expand the cooperation between different trainee this new path consistently, the Lufthansa Group replaced the previprograms. Another goal is to promote the spirit of an internal comous competency model with the Leadership Principles (see page munity even more strongly and to support employees in creating 91, Balance 2016) and introduced talent clusters, which ensure the self-organized networks. standardized and objective development of all employees covered. TO DEVELOP EMPLOYEE POTENTIALS THROUGH 360° FEEDBACK 360° Feedback is available to all employees on the Lufthansa Group’s intranet, allowing them to ask for feedback from managers, colleagues as well as customers and suppliers concerning their own work. Feedback received reflects not only the impression a person makes on others, but also the person’s own appraisal in comparison with third parties that helps the employee’s personal development. In 2016, about 900 employees used 360° Feedback and received feedback from more than 11,500 managers, colleagues and customers. 72 // Social Responsibility Health management and occupational safety Comprehensive health protection and occupational safety are an integral part of the Lufthansa Group’s sustainable and socially responsible Company policy. In 2016, the Group launched the Company-wide Health Management@LH Group. Outlook 2017 Health Management In 2017, Health Management is working on the sustainable evolution of the Company health programs. Among its tasks is to integrate the topic of health into the employee survey “involve me!” Health protection and occupational safety have been central action planned for 2017 (see page 69) and add health aspects to areas at the Lufthansa Group for many years. The Group assessed management and employee qualifications. both aspects as being “very important” in the materiality matrix it developed in 2016 (see page 17 ff., Strategy and management). At the same time, the internal realignment of the Group as a matrix Corporate Medical Services organization is also reflected in health management: To further develop the latter in a Company-wide format, the Group launched The Medical Services have a key role in the Lufthansa Group’s the program Health Management@LH Group in 2016. For this occupational safety and health protection concept (see page 92, purpose, the Lufthansa Group developed a guideline that summaBalance 2016). The Corporate Medical Services are addressed to rizes the strategic importance, underlying philosophy and goals: all Group employees and as a comprehensive competency center Health Management@LH Group aims at supporting the employees’ include not only aviation medicine but also occupational, vaccinaindividual responsibility for their health and thus their ability to tion and travel medicine, outpatient treatment and comprehensive perform, and at ensuring their physical, intellectual and social socio-medical counseling. Beyond these individual treatments, well-being. Therefore, the goal is to establish structures and prothe Medical Services provide comprehensive advice to decisioncesses that help shape working environments as well as working makers, committees and employee representations concerning all and cooperating formats in health-promoting ways, thus maintainissues of occupational medical protection. ing and promoting employees’ motivation and ability to perform. In turn, this contributes to the Company’s economic success. Furthermore, the Lufthansa Group offers its employees and managers access to the services of the Psychosocial Center as a The program’s purpose is to define the Lufthansa Group’s health voluntary social benefit (see page 93, Balance 2016). Experts management structures and processes in standard formats, and to counsel and help with problems on the job, during crises and combine, interlink and steer health-promoting measures in order to conflict situations, and in the event of private, financial or familygain efficient synergies. related difficulties. This offer exists at numerous locations in Germany. In 2016, the division organized a total of 184 workThe structural changes of Health Management@LH Group are shops, training sessions and information events. oriented by current scientific insights. These are the basis for health promotion aimed at specific target groups. At regular intervals, Both the Corporate Medical Services and the Psychosocial Center representatives of the largest Group companies, codetermination at Deutsche Lufthansa AG are certified in accordance with committees, occupational safety and disabled employees’ groups DIN EN ISO 9001:2008. The medical-professional and service as well as experts from the medical and psychosocial areas meet areas are continuously developed further. under the guidance of Health Management in the central steering committee “Health”. In this forum they define standardized procedures in the Lufthansa Group’s corporate health management. Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2017 // Lufthansa Group // 73 Wide range of offers during the Health Days 2017 at the Frankfurt location: sports courses, information booths and interviews, including one with Heike Drechsler (left), a two-time Olympic winner in long jump. Occupational safety signed responsibilities in the organization of occupational safety at the global level ensure that health risks for the Company’s own and An important contribution to employee health also comes from external employees are avoided in a preventive manner. The job occupational safety. At the Lufthansa Group, preventive measures safety processes that are to be newly defined within the Lufthansa are consistently implemented to avoid accidents, adverse effects Group establish homogenous and binding standards worldwide on health and job-related illness. By means of risk assessments that offer the same level of protection for all employees and legal and regular safety walkabouts the Group’s occupational safety certainty for the Company’s management. experts check all professional activities in the Group companies. In work areas with particular burdens the aviation company offers its The OSC is the highest steering body for all subjects concerning employees programs aimed at promoting health (see page 93, job safety at the Lufthansa Group. Among its tasks is to suggest Balance 2016). regulations in alignment with local legislation for all business segments and companies, and to ensure the exchange of information Activities in 2016 concerning relevant topics. The OSC ensures that all interests In 2016, the Group’s occupational safety experts focused above all Group-wide related to occupational safety are taken into considon creating contemporary conditions for effective job protection in eration, adhered to and standardized. a highly interlinked matrix organization. An Occupational Safety Committee (OSC) was established as the central steering body for Number of job-related accidents at very low level all issues concerning work-related safety within the Group. Among Given the heterogeneous composition of the Lufthansa Group, there the committee’s members are Lufthansa, SWISS and Austrian are different types of job-related risks. By implementing targeted Airlines. In addition, the aviation group bundled central topic areas protective measures, the Group has been able to keep the number related to occupational safety and transferred responsibility for of work-related accidents at a very low level. Nevertheless, the them to two administrative departments. This allows simpler and Lufthansa Group’s goal is to further reduce the number of accidents faster management of processes across the Group. Clearly asand to improve occupational protection on a continuous basis. CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2017 // Lufthansa Group // 75 Strategy and management The Lufthansa Group’s stakeholders expect a comprehensive social commitment that reflects the Group’s importance and size, and that is transparent, credible and comprehensible at the same time. To meet this expectation, responsible thinking and practice go far beyond the aviation group’s operative business activities. The Lufthansa Group’s commitment to social causes has traditionA focused portfolio of commitments ally grown organically and – given the portfolio changes over the past years – is today correspondingly varied as a result. The The key result of these analyses is that in future the Lufthansa Group resources the Group has made available for these activities have will concentrate entirely on the core areas of education/enabling on the whole not shown the desired results due to a high degree and life/health. In implementing this approach under the umbrella of division into individual projects. For this reason, since 2015 the of the help alliance, which was transformed into a charitable limited Lufthansa Group has concentrated more on its social and humaniliability company (see page 76 ff.), the Group counts on its core tarian activities. It was only consistent that the aviation group had competencies: logistics, route network and the diverse know-how its portfolio of commitments evaluated not only internally in 2016, of its employees. The Lufthansa Group is convinced that developing but also by external experts who analyzed and assessed all action a focused portfolio of commitments will benefit society and the fields related to corporate citizenship. The goal was to combine the Company in equal measure. This also implies that projects with diverse activities into thematic bundles and thus increase effectiveno or a narrow goal or time horizon can be avoided in the future. ness to the level desired. The Group airlines were included in this process along with the service companies and marketing function. More intensive employee commitment A goal-oriented social commitment on the part of its employees is an important part of the Lufthansa Group’s approach to corporate citizenship and has therefore been part of its HR strategy for many years. To make its employees more aware of sustainability issues and to give them more opportunities for assuming effective social responsibility, the aviation group is working on new concepts for further developing its corporate volunteering offers. These voluntary measures are designed to give employees opportunities to apply their varied individual talents and to use them outside work for solving social problems in a goal-oriented way. 76 // Corporate Citizenship Social commitment The Lufthansa Group continually refines the professional structures of its social commitment to make them even more dynamic and sustainable. The focus is on the objective to bundle aid and social integration projects under the aviation company’s roof in an economical way and to steer them in a goal-oriented manner. This appropriate change not only creates a base for giving people alliance in need help for self-help in a more effective and measurable way. It also makes a significant contribution to optimizing the Lufthansa Group’s social commitment overall, for example by further systematizing fundraising models and thus acquiring donated funds more effectively. help alliance – New foundations, new perspectives In 2016, the help alliance supported about 40 projects in development cooperation with a total volume of nearly 1.5 million euros. Overall, the Lufthansa employees active as volunteers looked The central pillar of the Lufthansa Group’s social commitment is the after approximately 140 aid and support projects with a donations help alliance, founded in 1999 by 13 Lufthansa employees as an volume of more than 10 million euros over the past 17 years. These aid initiative. During the reporting year, the aviation company initiactivities are based on a three-step concept with the central pillars ated comprehensive reforms to give the aid organization even of migration/integration, education and promoting entrepreneurship. more sustainable foundations. The key element of this process was Poor, ill and socially disadvantaged children and youths from and the transformation from charitable association to nonprofit limited liability company on January 1, 2017. “ Over the past years, it has become increasingly difficult to support the growing volume of our projects with the association’s structures. Against this background, the restructuring into a nonprofit Joachim Steinbach limited liability company was Managing Director of help alliance gGmbH „ both an important and a logical step. Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2017 // Lufthansa Group // 77 Language promotion for refugee children in cooperation with the association “Stern des Südens” is one of the long-term integration projects of the help alliance. Small change – It’s a big help in crisis-affected regions in particular receive an opportunity to lead self-determined lives. All project content is guided by the strict To build bridges leading to a better life for people in need, standards of the UN children’s rights conventions. the help alliance set up the on-board collection program “Small change – It’s a big help” in 2001. It gives Lufthansa The Lufthansa Group has supported the help alliance’s commitGroup passengers the opportunity to donate coins and bills ments from its inception by providing nonmaterial, communicain any currency that they bring back home on long-haul flights. tions, logistical and economic support. On-board collection program Emphasis of activities in 2016 Development of donation volumes in euros Education is the key to the successful integration of refugees. Therefore, the help alliance’s project portfolio comprises numerous education and integration offers for refugees who have found refuge in Germany. During the reporting year, the help alliance supported several long-term integration projects. The Düsseldorfbased learning-and-coaching project for children and youths with a migration background and from educationally alienated families is exemplary in this area. It was initiated by the association Chancenwerk, which the help alliance has supported since 2015. In the Rhine-Main region, language training for refugee children in cooperation with the association Stern des Südens, a help alliance cooperation partner since 2007, has pivotal importance (see page 100/101, Balance 2016). 283,605 362,662 497,823 301,566 318,380 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 October 2002: start of Condor’s participation September 2011: start of Brussels Airlines’ participation July 2012:  start of Austrian Airlines’ participation 78 // Corporate Citizenship Since early 2016, the Lufthansa Group has participated in the tional needs. The school finances 13 percent of its budget with German industry’s integration initiative “Wir zusammen” (“We its own funds. Another part is provided by the help alliance from together”), concretely in the mentoring project at the Company’s donations. Lufthansa Group employees facilitate the inclusion Hamburg location, which has been realized by the help alliance in process by giving weekly language lessons to small learning cooperation with the association basis & woge. Lufthansa Technik groups of pupils and by acting as contact persons. employees work as volunteer learning mentors and thus allow young migrants and refugees better opportunities to access the job Beyond that, the help alliance has initiated education programs in market. The mentoring program will be continued in 2017. the world’s crisis regions to give people perspectives for a better life, either in their home countries or where they found refuge, Berlin: New mentoring program for refugee students including a catch-up school for Syrian refugees. More than 100 For many students, fleeing from countries in crisis means the prechildren attend the school of last resort in Azraq, Jordan. It has mature end of their academic careers. Missing documents and been supported by the help alliance since 2016. In climatized insufficient language skills are often insurmountable obstacles to school containers that have been provided by the help alliance, continuing their studies in Germany. To help overcome such situachildren follow classes in accordance with both Jordanian and tions, the help alliance opened the Study Center for refugee stuSyrian curricula. This allows later integration into the regular school dents at Berlin’s Spreewerkstätten on January 24, 2017, following system of the country where these refugee children will live permaa preparation phase in 2016 in cooperation with the education nently. The likelihood of a self-determined life thus increases signifplatform Kiron Open Higher Education. This meeting and learning icantly. In addition, attending school gives them a part of everyday place is financed by the help alliance and makes an important normality back, which has an additional stabilizing effect. contribution to social and cultural integration. About a dozen employees from different Lufthansa Group companies support the Haiti Entrepreneurship Camp defies hurricane future academics on a voluntary basis. The third Haiti Entrepreneurship Camp took place in October 2016 in the capital, Port-au-Prince, despite the devastation from hurriCologne: Inclusion of refugee children cane Matthew in the south of the country. The initiative, which was The Open School Cologne (OSK) is an officially recognized comlaunched by the help alliance, aims at supporting young people to pensatory school. Not only does it look after local children, but start up their own companies. Both the 30 participants and the since 2015 also refugee children and youths with special educa“ We would like to link the help alliance’s potential even more closely to the Lufthansa Group’s strength and network in order to use our core competencies more comprehensively and apply the wide-rang„ Susanne Kotysch ing talents of our employees Managing Director of help alliance gGmbH and Head of Corporate Responsibility & more effectively. Events Management, Lufthansa Group Communications Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2017 // Lufthansa Group // 79 In 2016, Cargo Human Care supported a medical camp in the Massai Mara for the second time. lecturers, including many Lufthansa Group employees working as Cargo Human Care volunteers, helped on their days off with emergency aid work in affected areas. Cargo Human Care (CHC) is a humanitarian aid project focused on Kenya. The association, which was founded in 2007 by Lufthansa New fundraising activities Cargo employees and German physicians, provides direct medical In addition, the help alliance moved forward in 2016 with initiating support for poor, ill and destitute people – free of charge and new fundraising models: Lufthansa Miles & More Credit Card unbureaucratically. In addition, the charitable organization works holders have had the option since August 2016 to set an individual for impoverished and ill orphans by giving them a home and amount on the Mastercard donation platform that benefits the help opening up educational opportunities. alliance’s aid projects with each card transaction. In this way, the social commitment of Lufthansa Group customers is integrated into From CHC’s inception, Lufthansa Cargo has supported the charity everyday life and promoted. by providing freight capacities free of charge and air tickets for the donate.mastercard.com/helpalliance physicians who work on a voluntary basis. Lufthansa Cargo employees in Germany also volunteer to coordinate the assignments Another highly successful Miles & More initiative is Miles to Help. of medical doctors. Furthermore, CHC covers the costs of the It gives participants in Europe’s largest frequent flier and premium Kenyan personnel at the CHC Medical Center and of treatments program the opportunity to donate miles they have earned to help and operations required at the local Nazareth Hospital. alliance projects. For example, 5,000 donated miles help with financing an additional teaching post in Africa for one month. With Currently, the aid project is able to draw from a pool of 50 German 3,000 miles, tuition, teaching materials and uniforms for six children medical doctors with different specializations. All treatments are can be provided for one month in India. given at CHC’s own medical center in Nairobi. The center also provides free medical care to needy people from the surrounding area www.helpalliance.org and to 120 orphans living at Mothers’ Mercy Home in Kianjogu, which CHC also supports. During the reporting year, the medical center looked after about 7,000 patients and provided more than 25,000 medical treatments. The charitable organization is committed to numerous additional areas and projects, and continuously expands the scope of its activities. Step by step for a good cause On August 25, 2016, about 600 runners crossed the starting line under the motto “Step by step. Giving children a future.” in the second Business District Run in Frankfurt’s Niederrad quarter. Total revenues of 16,500 euros benefited the John Kaheni Residence FURTHER SOCIAL PROJECTS near Nairobi – a residential and training center opened at the end of 2015 that gives a home to youths and young adults between 18 SUPPORTED BY GROUP COMPANIES and 24 years of age after they have completed school and while following further education courses. The institution used the funds Lufthansa Cargo to buy a battery unit to ensure emergency electricity supply. On • Close cooperation for more than 35 years with the regisAugust 24, 2017, the third Business District Run will take place. tered association “Werkstätten für Behinderte RheinRevenues from this event are to finance the construction of the Main e. V.” (Workshops for the Disabled) in producing Happy Child Education Center for preschool children from a slum lashing straps used for loading cargo aboard aircraft area in Kawangware on Nairobi’s northern periphery. • With a current order volume of almost 1.2 million euros Lufthansa Cargo is the largest manufacturing customer at www.cargohumancare.de WfB Rhein-Main • The association was certified in 2016 by the European Aviation Safety Agency (EASA) as development company and by Germany’s Federal Aviation Office (LBA) as manuIn 2016, under the motto “Step by step. Giving children a future.” facturing company about 600 runners started in the second Business District Run • WfB Rhein-Main is thus one of only six manufacturers in Frankfurt‘s Niederrad quarter. worldwide that produce lashing straps certified according to these standards SWISS • The airline has supported SOS Children’s Villages Switzerland since its foundation – among other measures with flight tickets and on-board collections of funds in coins • Funds donated benefit projects located at SWISS destinations • Donations collected in 2015 and 2016 were used to renovate 20 family houses at the SOS Children’s Village in Bawana, India, for example Austrian Airlines • Concentration on social projects in central and eastern Europe • The focus is on renowned organizations such as Global 2000, Help for Children from Belarus, and Alliance for Children LSG Sky Chefs • Its regionally varying commitment includes educational projects, health promotion and sports events, among others Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2017 // Lufthansa Group // 81 Emergency humanitarian aid Victims of natural disasters or humanitarian crises need effective aid immediately. For this reason, providing transport capacities aboard its freight aircraft in the event of a crisis or catastrophe is an established element of the Lufthansa Group’s corporate citizenship concept. In such cases, Lufthansa Cargo makes freight capacities available sources and know-how, and to be able to set up a functioning either free of charge or at low rates that cover costs. To ensure that logistics chain and set it in motion at short notice (see page 98 f., initial relief can be launched in an unbureaucratic and swift manner, information illustration, Balance 2016). the Lufthansa Group’s logistics specialist closely cooperates with renowned aid organizations. On December 1, 2016, Lufthansa Cargo signed the same type of cooperation contract with Germany’s Red Cross (DRK). The focus This includes the long-standing partnership with the emergency of the association between Germany’s largest aid organization and aid association “Aktion Deutschland Hilft” and its alliance partner the logistics service provider is on the objective of making prepa“World Vision Deutschland”, among others. This cooperation has rations for aid flights significantly easier and more efficient in the guaranteed since the beginning of 2013 that the 23 German aid future. This will make the transportation of medications, drinking organizations joined in this alliance have direct access to the logiswater treatment equipment and other aid items needed at their tical infrastructure of Lufthansa Cargo. The goals are to be even destinations at short notice even more flexible and thus faster. better prepared in the event of a catastrophe by bundling reIn addition, Lufthansa Cargo has been a member of Airlink since the end of 2016. This noncommercial humanitarian aid organization, which was founded by employees of the International Society of Effective December 1, 2016, Lufthansa Cargo signed a Transport Aircraft Trading Foundation (ISTAT) in 2010, connects cooperation contract with Germany’s Red Cross. airlines and charitable organizations, thus speeding up the delivery of humanitarian aid significantly. Currently, 35 aviation companies and charter airlines as well as 60 charitable organizations around the world participate in Airlink. Moreover, thanks to the charter services offered under the Network on Demand umbrella, Lufthansa Cargo is also able to transport aid shipments not only within, but also outside of the Lufthansa network to all destinations worldwide – and at any time. For example, in October 2016 Lufthansa Cargo transported more than 70 tonnes of aid supplies aboard an MD-11 freighter to Haiti. It was part of a campaign initiated by “Deutsche Bahn Stiftung” and joined by “Kinderhilfswerk nph” and seven other aid organizations as well as the logistics specialist DB Schenker. The campaign was prompted by the devastating aftermath of hurricane Matthew, which had hit the island nation with wind speeds of up to 230 kilometers per hour; the latest of numerous natural disasters to have occurred there. 82 // Corporate Citizenship Other commitments The Lufthansa Group is focusing its corporate citizenship activities more and more on social and humanitarian issues. Nevertheless, the Company has maintained its support in the areas of environment, culture and sports, as in previous years. Environmental sponsorship flew a symbolic appeal for species protection across Europe. In addition, the Lufthansa Group supported the relaunch of the InterThe long-term protection of the crane and its breeding, resting net platform www.kraniche.de during the reporting year. and gathering areas has a tradition of more than 30 years at the Lufthansa Group. Emphasis is placed on the Crane Protection 20-year anniversary of the Crane Information Center Germany working group, which the Lufthansa Group founded in Moreover, the Group supports the Crane Information Center in 1991 together with Naturschutzbund Deutschland (NABU) and Groß Mohrdorf operated by the working group. Every year, about the environmental foundation WWF Deutschland (World Wide 125,000 cranes rest for several weeks in the Darß-Zingst peninsula Fund For Nature). In particular, the working group supports projects and the Rügen region of Mecklenburg-Western Pomerania. The that help ensure the survival of the Eurasian crane, but is also center, which attracts more than 15,000 visitors every year, also involved in numerous projects in Africa and Asia concerned with has an educational mission. Among the rangers who present interresearch on and protection of crowned, wattled, white-naped esting facts about cranes are Lufthansa Group employees. The and sarus cranes. observation platform “Cranorama” at Günzer See, which was inaugurated in October 2015, provides visitors with insights into the 25 years of Crane Protection Germany surrounding nature (see page 104, Balance 2016). To visually underline its commitment to these majestic large birds during the anniversary year 2016, the Lufthansa Group featured Information about species-appropriate animal transport: artwork specifically designed for the occasion on the Airbus A321 www.lufthansa-cargo.com also Balance 2015, page 101 “Wismar” for six months: Stylized cranes painted on the fuselage Anniversary decals: For six months, the Airbus A321 “Wismar” flew with decals on its fuselage depicting stylized cranes on European routes, making a symbolic appeal for species protection. Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2017 // Lufthansa Group // 83 The Lufthansa Choir celebrated its premiere performance in November 2016 in a concert with the Lufthansa Orchestra. Cultural commitment For many years, Lufthansa has been the official airline of the German Olympic teams, copartner of the German Olympic Sports Partnership with Gürzenich Orchestra extended Confederation (DOSB) and cosponsor of the National Paralympic In 2016 the Group prolonged its commitment to the Gürzenich Committee Germany (DBS) (see page 105, Balance 2016). In Orchestra in Cologne as First Global Partner. One of the orchestra’s 2016, Lufthansa flew the German Olympic team and the Paralympic highlights during the reporting year was a charity concert at Cologne’s team to Rio de Janeiro and back. For the flight home the airline Philharmonie. Revenues went to the association “Wir helfen” provided a Boeing 747-8 featuring the special design “Olympia supported by Cologne-based publishing house DuMont Schauberg, Siegerflieger” (“Olympic winner’s plane”). In 2016, SWISS also as well as to the help alliance. operated flights in its role as official airline and partner of the Swiss Olympic and Swiss Paralympic teams. Lufthansa Choir celebrates its premiere The Lufthansa Choir was founded at the end of 2015 and consists How sports sponsorship and social commitment can be connected of 50 singers from across the Group. It gave its premiere perforin meaningful ways was illustrated by the Group during the Olympic mance in November 2016 in a concert with the Lufthansa Orchesyear, which also marked the 60th anniversary of the route to Rio tra. The latter, with more than 65 members and set up in 2011, has de Janeiro. Lufthansa Group employees renovated the charitable made its name above all with the annual spring and fall concerts in professional education institution Centro Comunitário Paulo da Frankfurt. A smaller lineup of the orchestra also performs at occaPortela (CCCP) in this Brazilian city. They received hands-on supsions such as the memorial event on the first anniversary of the port from Olympic beach volleyball winners Julius Brink and Jonas Germanwings accident on March 24, 2016. Reckermann. The CCCP has received support from the help alliance since 2011. Young people receive profession-related instruction and are prepared for university entrance exams, for example. Sports sponsorship Football Athletes need experts working in the background in all areas to be Lufthansa has been a partner of the German Soccer Association able to achieve top performances. The Lufthansa Group sees itself (DFB) since 2005 and flies the national soccer team to its European as a part of this “team behind the teams” and has supported assochampionship games. The airline is also active at the football club ciations, institutions and sports clubs for many years. Since 2007, level as the Official Carrier of FC Bayern München. Furthermore, the Lufthansa Group has been a National Sponsor of the German Eurowings has been Borussia Dortmund’s official airline since Sports Aid Foundation. 2016. www.lufthansagroup.com/sports 84 // Service and Information SERVICE AND INFORMATION Scope of consolidation / Methodology of calculations Environmental / Personnel data Verification statement Scope 1 3 Glossary / GRI index Editorial information / Contact partner Overview: Most stringent noise standards Overview: The operating fleet of the Lufthansa Group Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2017 // Lufthansa Group // 85 Notes on the scope of consolidation and methodology for calculating absolute and specific consumption and emissions Scope of consolidation kerosene actually consumed. The distances used in the calculations are great-circle distances. In combination flights (freight and passenReporting on transport performance, kerosene consumption, and ger transport in one aircraft), fuel consumption is attributed on the emissions from flight operations in 2016 is – unless noted otherbasis of its share of the total payload to calculate the passengerwise – based on the following scope of consolidation: and freight-specific figures. • Lufthansa (including Lufthansa CityLine and Air Dolomiti), Since 2013, the DIN EN 16258 standard has provided a guide for Eurowings (including Germanwings), SWISS (including Edelweiss standardized calculation of greenhouse gas emissions for transport Air), Austrian Airlines and Lufthansa Cargo. Not included are processes. This guide uses the same estimates for calculating services performed by third parties, as their performance is payload as the Lufthansa Group. When traveled distances are beyond our control. calculated, 95 kilometers must be added to the great-circle distance • Types of flight service: all scheduled and charter flights. according to the guidelines of the EU emission allowance trading scheme. The International Air Transport Association (IATA) has separately developed its own calculation proposals, which deal with Methodology of calculations the division of fuel consumption between freight and passengers and attribute a larger share of fuel consumption to passengers Kerosene in absolute terms because of the passenger-specific infrastructure. Although this Kerosene consumption is calculated on the basis of actual flight method has no effect on the overall efficiency of a flight, it changes operations (i.e. using actual load factors and flight routings) according the apportionment between passengers and freight. There are still to the gate-to-gate principle. This covers all phases of a flight, from divergences between the two methods (including from the method taxiing on the ground to flying detours and holding patterns in the air. used up to now by Lufthansa). We would welcome a standardized, internationally harmonized and accepted method. Emissions in absolute terms The emissions from flight operations are calculated on the basis of Environmental database actual transport performance and hence on actual load factors and The environmental data for this report were compiled by the the actual absolute quantity of kerosene consumed in the reporting Lufthansa Group by means of its central environmental database. year. Transport performance is measured in tonne kilometers; i.e., All Lufthansa Group companies are encouraged to feed their envipayload transported over a distance. For passengers and their ronmentally relevant performance and consumption data (such as luggage, an average of 100 kilograms is the standard estimate; fuel consumption) into the Group’s environmental database. Data for freight, it is its scale weight. Each aircraft/engine combination used for the calculation of the Lufthansa Group’s carbon footprint present in the fleet is considered separately, and the associated (Scope 1 3 emissions) were additionally checked by an external values are calculated with the aid of computer programs provided auditor for completeness and correctness according to accepted by the aircraft and engine manufacturers. The annual average flight verification standards and verified with High Assurance (Scope 1) profile for each subset of the fleet is then fed into these programs. and Limited Assurance (Scope 2 and 3) respectively. This allows us to determine emissions in relation to flight altitude, distance flown, thrust, and load. This approach is necessary for Accuracy nitrogen oxides (NOX), carbon monoxide (CO), and unburned For presentation purposes the figures in the charts and tables are hydrocarbons (UHC) in particular. Carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions rounded. Changes from the previous year’s figures and share do not require special calculation methods, as they are generated percentages refer in each case to precise figures, however. For in a fixed ratio to the quantity of kerosene burned. The combustion this reason it is possible that a reported value may remain the of 1 tonne of kerosene generates 3.15 tonnes of CO2. same from one year to the next even though a relative change is reported. Because of the rounding of share percentages, it is also Specific consumption and emission values possible that the sum of their addition may differ from the sum of Calculating specific consumption and emissions entails expressing the unrounded percentages. For example, as a result of rounding, absolute values in relation to transport performance. For example, share percentages may not add up to 100 percent even though it the ratio liters per 100 passenger kilometers (l/100 pkm) is calcuwould be logical to expect them to. lated on the basis of actual load factors along with the quantity of Environmental data Fuel consumption1 E m i s s i o n s 3,5 2016, in tonnes 2016, in tonnes Passengers Freight Total Share Passengers ± 2015 Freight ± 2015 Total ± 2015 Scheduled flights 2. 3 CO2 21,984,012 + 1.4 % 6,540,969 + 0.5 % 28,524,981 + 1.2 % Lufthansa 4,665,045 1,561,742 6,226,787 68.0 % NOX 106,453 + 2.8 % 32,555 + 2.1 % 139,008 + 2.6 % SWISS 1,149,867 419,117 1,568,984 17.1 % CO 15,974 + 1.0 % 3,346 + 0.5 % 19,320 + 1.0 % Austrian Airlines 607,418 94,772 702,189 7.7 % Eurowings 556,721 868 557,589 6.1 % UHC 1,537 + 1.9 % 343 – 1.9 % 1,880 + 1.2 % 9,055,550 98.8 % Third parties 6 80,219 1,418 81,958 0.9 % Other flights 4 23,884 0.3 % All flights 9,161,392 100.0 % S h a r e o f t h i r d p a r t i e s 6,7 Fuel Dumps3 2016 2016 Changes compared 2016 to 2015 Flights 3.3 % Passengers 2.8 % Events, total 24 +4 Tonne kilometers transported, TKT (tkm) 1.9 % thereof medical reasons 10 –1 Fuel consumption (tonnes) 0.9 % technical reasons 13 +4 CO2 emissions (tonnes) 0.9 % other reasons 1 +1 Quantity, total 8 1,141 t + 102 % Specific fuel consumption of Specific CO2 emissions of p a s s e n g e r t r a n s p o r t a t i o n c o m p a r e d 3,9 passenger transportation3 2016, in liters per 100 passenger kilometers (l /100 pkm) 2016, in kilograms per 100 passenger kilometers (kg /100 pkm) 2016 2015 Changes in % Overall Long-haul Medium-haul Short-haul average Group fleet 3.85 3.84 + 0.2 Lufthansa 3.88 3.86 + 0.6 Group fleet 8.85 10.02 14.77 9.71 SWISS 3.44 3.53 – 2.4 Lufthansa 9.22 9.82 15.90 9.78 Austrian Airlines 4.04 3.92 + 3.0 SWISS 7.86 9.81 20.33 8.67 Eurowings 4.46 4.45 + 0.3 Austrian Airlines 7.73 11.03 18.51 10.17 Eurowings 10.19 12.00 11.24 Definitions of traffic areas Long-haul more than 3,000 km Medium-haul 800 to 3,000 km Short-haul under 800 km 1 Actual fuel consumption in tonnes from flight operations, based on all flight events under the flights). Recorded are consumption values from gate to gate, i.e. including taxiing on the respective operative flight number. Recorded are consumption values from gate to gate, i.e. ground, holding patterns and detours in the air (see notes on page 85). including taxiing on the ground, holding patterns and detours in the air. 6 Airlines outside the scope of consolidation of Balance, but operating services on behalf 2 Scheduled flights, charter flights of Lufthansa, for example in the event of capacity bottlenecks. 3 For the reporting year 2016, the following companies have been included in Balance: 7 Excludes road feeder services and partial capacity chartered by Lufthansa Cargo, as no Lufthansa (including Lufthansa CityLine and Air Dolomiti), Lufthansa Cargo, SWISS (including fuel consumption and emissions values are available for this performance. Edelweiss Air), Austrian Airlines and Eurowings (including Germanwings). Excluding the 8 In part projections services of third parties as the Company cannot influence their performance (see table 9 From 2016, category Lufthansa excluding Eurowings, category Eurowings including Share of third parties). Germanwings. Values for preceding year calculated in comparable manner. 4 Ferry flights, special flights, training flights, test flights, aborted flights 10 On the basis of freight tonne kilometers (FTKT), transported on both cargo and passenger 5 Absolute emissions in tonnes resulting from flight operations (all scheduled and charter aircraft. Specific fuel consumption Specific fuel consumption Passenger transportation3 F r e i g h t t r a n s p o r t a t i o n 3,10 in liters/100 passenger kilometers (l/100 pkm) in liters /tonne kilometers 4.32 4.34 4.30 4.20 4.18 4.06 3.91 3.84 3.84 3.85 0.285 0.295 0.304 0.289 0.289 0.287 0.278 0.276 0.282 0.280 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Passenger transportation3 CO2 emissions NOX emissions CO emissions UHC emissions in kilograms /100 passenger kilometers in grams /100 passenger kilometers in grams /100 passenger kilometers in grams /100 passenger kilometers 2016 9.71 2016 47.0 2016 7.1 2016 0.68 2015 9.69 2015 46.3 2015 7.1 2015 0.67 2014 9.69 2014 45.8 2014 7.3 2014 0.72 2013 9.84 2013 46.7 2013 7.4 2013 0.74 2012 10.24 2012 48.4 2012 7.8 2012 0.80 2011 10.53 2011 49.4 2011 8.2 2011 0.87 2010 10.58 2010 48.8 2010 8.4 2010 0.87 2009 10.84 2009 50.0 2009 8.5 2009 0.91 2008 10.93 2008 50.6 2008 8.5 2008 0.96 2007 10.88 2007 49.8 2007 8.6 2007 0.99 F r e i g h t t r a n s p o r t a t i o n 3,10 CO2 emissions NOX emissions CO emissions UHC emissions in kilograms /tonne kilometers in grams /tonne kilometers in grams /tonne kilometers in grams /tonne kilometers 2016 0.70 2016 3.5 2016 0.4 2016 0.04 2015 0.71 2015 3.5 2015 0.4 2015 0.04 2014 0.70 2014 3.4 2014 0.4 2014 0.04 2013 0.70 2013 3.3 2013 0.3 2013 0.04 2012 0.72 2012 3.5 2012 0.4 2012 0.05 2011 0.73 2011 3.5 2011 0.4 2011 0.05 2010 0.73 2010 3.5 2010 0.4 2010 0.05 2009 0.77 2009 3.7 2009 0.4 2009 0.06 2008 0.74 2008 3.6 2008 0.4 2008 0.06 2007 0.72 2007 3.4 2007 0.4 2007 0.06 Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2017 // Lufthansa Group Personnel data Number of employees by professional group and gender Job throughout the world Lufthansa Group, employees as of December 31, 2016 Lufthansa Group, employees as of December 31, 2016 Female employees Male employees Group Total 124,306 Frankfurt 37,636 Female 45.7 % 56,790 Hamburg 9,876 Male 54.3 % Munich 11,728 67,516 Cologne 2,228 Apprentices 23.7 % Berlin 1,332 1,178 76.3 % Rest of Germany 5,381 Ground 1 38.2 % Total of Germany 68,181 84,694 61.8 % Rest of Europe 24,625 Flight 2 62.8 % thereof Vienna 5,956 38,434 37.2 % thereof Zurich 8,641 Cockpit 5.5 % Africa / Middle East 2,397 9,104 94.5 % North / Central America 17,969 Cabin 80.6 % South America 3,015 29,330 19.4 % Asia / Pacific 8,119 Share of women in Share of women with management positions staff responsibility Lufthansa Group, in percent as of December 31, 2016 Lufthansa Group, in percent as of December 31, 2016 20 50 15 40 10 30 5 20 15.0 14.6 14.7 13.1 13.6 13.6 14.5 14.2 14.9 15.6 35.8 38.0 41.5 36.8 35.5 34.5 34.1 35.1 33.9 34.1 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 1 Without apprentices Co., LH Technik Budapest Repülögeb, Hawker Pacific Aerospace (US), Aerologic GmbH (25 2 Consists of cockpit and cabin percent partially consolidated), LH Technik Landing Gear Services UK Ltd., BizJet Interna3  Sphere of application: Group scope of consolidation, without parts of LSG abroad, LH tional Sales & Support Inc., LH Technik North America Holding Corp., LH Technik Sofia Malta Aircraft-Leasing Ltd., time:matters GmbH, time:matters Spare Parts Logistics GmbH, OOD, LH Technik Component Services LLC, LH Malta Holding Ltd., LH Malta Corporate time:matters Holding GmbH, LH Technik Philippines Inc., LH Technik Puerto Rico LLC, LH Finance Ltd., LHAMIH LIMITED, LH Malta Finance Holding Ltd. Technik Shannon Ltd. Co., LH Technik Malta Ltd., LH Technik Airmotive Ireland Leasing Ltd. Average age Age structure3 Lufthansa Group, in years as of December 31, 2016 Lufthansa Group, in percent as of December 31, 2016 Fe m a l e e m p l o y ee s Male e m p lo ye e s To t al 60 and older 4.4 45 55 – 59 9.2 50 – 54 16.5 45 – 49 16.4 40 – 44 13.2 35 – 39 13.3 30 – 34 11.2 40 25 – 29 9.3 20 – 24 5.2 18 – 19 1.0 15 – 17 0.1 41.4 41.5 41.5 41.8 41.9 42.4 42.7 43.1 43.3 43.4 40.3 40.4 40.3 40.7 40.8 41.3 41.9 42.3 42.3 42.2 39.0 39.1 39.0 39.5 39.6 40.2 40.9 41.3 41.3 40.9 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 20163 Part-time employment Part-time work by Group companies Lufthansa Group, in percent as of December 31, 2016 Lufthansa Group, in percent as of December 31, 2016 Fe m a l e e m p l o y ee s Male e m p lo ye e s To t al Group total 27.4 50 Passenger Airline Group 46 Logistics 20 MRO 9 40 Catering 11 Others 28 30 Distribution of employees 20 Lufthansa Group, employees as of December 31, 2016 2016 2015 Change 10 Group total 124,306 120,652 + 3.0 % 43.8 42.7 42.7 43.9 44.2 45.3 45.6 45.0 45.7 43.4 of which Passenger Airline Group 54,308 55,255 – 1.7 % 26.8 26.5 26.9 26.9 27.1 27.9 28.1 28.0 28.8 27.4 of which Logistics 4,568 4,607 – 0.8 % 14.3 14.0 14.0 13.6 13.3 13.7 14.1 14.3 14.9 14.0 of which MRO 20,839 20,661 + 0.9 % 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 of which Catering 35,530 34,310 + 3.6 % of which others 9,061 5,819 + 55.7 % Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2017 // Lufthansa Group 90 // Service and Information Verification statement Scope 1 3 Müller-BBM Cert GmbH, accredited verifier DAkkS D-VS-18709-01-01, accredited and approved for air transportation confirms, that CO2 emissions data in the submitted Climate Change 2017 CDP final report, dated 2017/05/30 and those in figure “Direct and indirect CO2 emissions of the Lufthansa Group” on page 37 of the sustainability report Balance, issue 2017, of Deutsche Lufthansa AG and affiliates* are verified under the verification standards • EU Emissions Trading Scheme (EU ETS) Directive and EU ETS related national implementation laws • Airport Carbon Accreditation (ACA) of Airports Council International Europe with following uncertainties: Scope 1 29,250,821 t CO2eq (high assurance) Scope 2 275,161 t CO2eq (limited assurance) Scope 3 8,774,231 t CO2eq (limited assurance) Kerpen, May 30, 2017 Müller-BBM Cert GmbH * Scope of application from organizations at CDP report 2017: Deutsche Lufthansa AG, Lufthansa Cargo AG, Lufthansa Technik AG, Lufthansa CityLine GmbH, Swiss International Air Lines AG, Edelweiss Air AG, Austrian Airlines AG, Air Dolomiti S.p.A Linee Aeree Regionali Europee, Germanwings GmbH, Eurowings Aviation GmbH, LSG Lufthansa Service Holding AG, Lufthansa AirPlus Servicekarten GmbH, Lufthansa Global Business Services GmbH, Lufthansa Seeheim GmbH, Miles & More GmbH, Lufthansa Process Management GmbH, Lufthansa Systems GmbH & Co.KG, Lufthansa Industry Solutions GmbH & Co.KG, Lufthansa Flight Training GmbH, LZ-Catering GmbH. Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2017 // Lufthansa Group // 91 Glossary A Carbon monoxide (CO) Chemical compound consisting of one carbon and one oxygen Aerosols atom, formed in the incomplete combustion process of substances Aerosols are solid and/or liquid particles that are suspended in the containing carbon. For aircraft engines, the level of CO emissions air. They reach the atmosphere by means of natural processes depends greatly on the thrust level: The emissions per kilogram (wind, desert storms, volcanic eruptions) or human activities (comof fuel burned are higher at idle settings, while taxiing, and on bustion of biomass and fossil fuels). The most important aerosols approach than during the climbing and cruising phases. are mineral dust, sea salt, cellular (biological) particles, soot, organic compounds, and sulfates. From a climatic perspective, CDP (previously Carbon Disclosure Project) aerosols are the opponents of greenhouse gases, as they can The CDP is an independent nongovernmental organization with a reflect incident light and thus have a cooling effect. current membership of more than 820 institutional investors worldwide. Every year this initiative, which was founded in 2000, gathers aireg e. V. – Aviation Initiative for R­ enewable Energy in Germany data and information on CO2 emissions, climate risks as well as aireg is a registered association of leading German research reduction goals and strategies on a voluntary basis from corporainstitutions, L­ ufthansa and other companies in the aviation industry, tions and organizations on behalf of investors by means of standardand bioenergy producers. The goal of this initiative, which was ized questionnaires. In 2016, 6,000 companies and organizations founded in 2011, is to advance the development and introduction published their greenhouse gas emissions and other environmentally of regenerative aviation fuels in Germany and to inform the public relevant performance ratios in this way. Today, CDP administers the at large about this topic. www.aireg.de world’s largest database of its kind. Investors use this data to assess long-term opportunities and risks for the companies in their portfoATM – Air Traffic Management lios, to determine their investment strategy and to develop investAir traffic management ensures both the safe and the efficient ment products and indices. www.cdp.net movement of aircraft in all phases of operations. Chapter 4 aircraft Atmosphere Aircraft that comply with the strictest noise protection standard Mass of air surrounding the Earth. It is divided into various layers, currently in force – the Chapter 4 noise standard. The Environmental which are separated from one another by significantly different Committee (CAEP) of the ICAO agreed on this standard in Septemvertical temperature distributions. Important for air traffic are the ber 2001. As a result, all aircraft newly certified since 2006 must two lower layers: the troposphere and, above it, the stratosphere. remain cumulatively below the Chapter 3 noise levels by 10 decibels The troposphere’s upper boundaries vary depending on season or more. The maximum noise emission values for aircraft were and latitude. They lie at altitudes of 16 to 18 kilometers above sea introduced by the ICAO under Annex 16 to the Convention on level at the equator, and at eight to 12 kilometers above sea level at International Civil Aviation. Noise levels depend on the aircraft’s the poles. The temperature in the tropopause, the transition layer maximum takeoff weight and number of engines. From December between troposphere and stratosphere, drops to about minus 60 31, 2017, the new Chapter 14 standard will apply for newly-certified degrees Celsius. It rises again in the stratosphere. regional aircraft; for all other aircraft from December 31, 2020. C CO – see “Carbon monoxide” CO2 – see “Carbon dioxide” Carbon dioxide (CO2) Gas resulting in nature from the burning or decomposition of organic Compliance substances (e.g. plant material). The greenhouse gas CO2 remains Compliance describes in their entirety all measures that ensure the in the atmosphere for about 100 years. Scientists attribute the lawful conduct of companies, their management bodies, and their increase in atmospheric CO2 over the last 100 years to the burning employees with regard to legal directives and interdictions. of fossil fuels (e.g. coal, oil, natural gas) by humans. Per tonne of fuel, 3.15 tonnes of CO2 result from the combustion process. Corporate Responsibility (CR) Currently, about 2.55 percent of the CO2 emissions due to human Corporate responsibility expresses the degree to which a company activities are caused by global air traffic. (Source: International assumes accountability for the effects its business activities have Energy Agency (IEA) 2016, 2014 values) on employees, customers, society, and the environment. 92 // Service and Information D ronmental, social and governance (ESG) areas of companies as well as the development, calculation and publication of ECPI indiDecibel ces. It monitors 4,000 issuers by means of a disciplined and certiMeasuring unit for the intensity and pressure of sound. The differfied method that covers a range of ESG criteria. ence in intensity between the softest sound the human ear can perceive and the pain threshold is 1:10 trillion. To depict this enorEMAS – Environmental Management and Audit Scheme mous range objectively, acoustics uses the logarithmic decibel European regulations concerning environmental management and scale. On this scale, the value “0” is assigned to the perception certification; colloquially referred to as EU eco-audit regulations. threshold (for a sound of 1,000 Hz) and the pain threshold at the value “130”. An increase of 10 dB corresponds to a tenfold increase Equivalent continuous noise level (Leq) in sound intensity. For the perceived volume, a difference of 10 dB The Leq is a measure for the energetic average of all sound prescorresponds to half or double the volume. However, the human ear sure levels over a defined period of time. All sound events that is not equally sensitive across the entire range of frequencies. Low differ in intensity and duration are summarized according to matheand high sounds are not perceived as being equally loud even at matical rules. The resulting average value is an accepted and the same intensity. For measurements, this difference is equalized proven measurement of the noise quantity occurring over an and noted accordingly. The best known such notation is the A value, observed time interval. marked by the index dB(A). To measure aircraft noise, the EPNdB (Effective Perceived Noise Decibel) unit is used internationally. F Diversity In a corporate context, diversity refers to all characteristics that Freight performance (FTKO/FTKT) distinguish employees from one another. Diversity management Airlines distinguish between freight performance offered (FTKO, offers approaches for handling human differences for the benefit of freight tonne kilometers offered) and its sold freight performance company and employees alike. (FTKT, freight tonne kilometers transported). See also “Tonne kilometers”. DLR – Deutsches Zentrum für Luftund Raumfahrt (German Aerospace Center) FTSE4Good The DLR serves scientific, economic and social purposes. It mainThe index was introduced in 2001 by FTSE, a wholly owned subtains numerous institutes, testing facilities and operational centers. sidiary of the London Stock Exchange. It lists only those companies Its declared goal is to help – using the means of aviation and space that meet the internationally accepted standards for corporate flight – to secure and shape the future. In its work, the DLR also seeks responsibility in the following dimensions: environmental managecooperation and allocation of tasks among European partners. ment, climate change, human and labor rights along the supply www.dlr.de chain, corporate governance, and anti-corruption efforts. L­ ufthansa has been listed since 2001. www.ftse.com DNWE – Deutsches Netzwerk Wirtschaftsethik (German Network for Business Ethics) Fuel dump DNWE is a nonprofit organization of which L­ ufthansa has been a Dumping of fuel in flight due to emergency situations to reduce a member since January 1998. DNWE has more than 600 current long-haul aircraft’s weight to the maximum permissible landing members, including many from German business, politics, religion, weight before unscheduled landings (e.g. in the event of technical and science. At the same time, DNWE is a national association of problems or serious passenger illness). Special air space is assigned the European Business Ethics Network (EBEN). www.dnwe.de to the aircraft, if possible above uninhabited or thinly populated areas. Fuel is usually dumped at altitudes of 4 to 8 kilometers. A E minimum altitude of 1,500 meters and a minimum speed of 500 km/h are required. The aircraft may not fly a fully closed circle. The dumped kerosene forms a fine mist in the turbulence behind the EBIT aircraft. Despite the use of highly sensitive methods of analysis, no Financial indicator; it denotes earnings before interest and taxes. contamination has been detected so far in plant or soil samples From financial year 2015 used as the central earnings indicator. after fuel dumps. It is calculated from total operating income minus operating expenses plus the result from equity investments. G ECPI The Lufthansa Group’s place in the ECPI® Index family was conGreat-circle distance firmed in 2016. This index comprises the 150 highest-capitalized The shortest distance between two points on the Earth’s surface, companies within the European economic and monetary union, measured in kilometers (great circle kilometers) or nautical miles. which represent suitable and sustainable investments according to The center of a great circle is the center of the Earth. the ECPI’s screening method. The ECPI analyzes data in the enviSustainability Report Balance // Issue 2017 // Lufthansa Group // 93 Greenhouse gases K Gaseous substances that contribute to the greenhouse effect and have both natural and human (anthropogenic) causes. The most Kerosene important natural greenhouse gases are water vapor (H2O), carbon Fuel for jet and propeller engines that is chemically similar to dioxide (CO2), and methane (CH4); the most important anthropopetroleum. Like diesel fuel or gasoline, kerosene is produced by genic greenhouse gases are carbon dioxide from the combustion distilling crude oil; unlike these fuels, kerosene does not contain of fossil fuels and methane, primarily from agriculture and industrial halogenated additives. livestock farming. Other artificial greenhouse gases are nitrous oxide (N2O), fluorocarbons (FCs and HFCs), sulfur hexafluoride (SF6), and chlorofluorocarbons (CFCs). L H Load factor – see explanation under “seat load factor” M Hub In air transport, a hub is a central traffic point or an airline’s transfer airport. Passengers and freight are transported from their point of Mentoring departure to one of the airline’s “home airports” (hub). From there, Instrument for targeted support of junior employees. Focuses on they are carried to their destination by a second flight alongside regular personal contacts between mentor and mentee. passengers and freight from other departure points, but with the same destination. MRO Acronym standing for maintenance, repair, and overhaul of aircraft. I MSCI Global Sustainability Index Series The US index provider MSCI launched a series of sustainability IATA – International Air Transport Association indices in September 2010. The MCSI index family comprises The umbrella organization of international commercial aviation. seven environmental, two value-based and 15 best-of-class indices. www.iata.org These include shares of companies with high and medium market capitalization and are based on the MSCI World Index. They depict ICAO – International Civil Aviation Organization companies that are particularly committed to environmental, social A United Nations agency that develops internationally binding and governance (ESG) issues. Lufthansa has been included in this norms for civil aviation. www.icao.int index series since June 2015. www.msci.com/esg-indexes ILO standards MTOW Work standards of the International Labor Organization, which Acronym standing for maximum takeoff weight of an aircraft. include, among others, the bans on child labor, forced labor, and discrimination as well as the fundamental right of freedom of association for employees. N ISO 9001:2008 Nitrogen oxides (NOX) The international standard DIN EN ISO 9001:2008 defines the Chemical compounds consisting of one nitrogen and several oxyrequirements a quality management system must fulfill. Proof that gen atoms. NOX is defined as the sum of NO and NO2 compounds. the standard is adhered to is given by independent certifiers, who Natural sources include lightning and microbes in the soil. Nitrogen issue a certificate with fixed validity after a validation. oxides are also generated in combustion processes under high www.iso.org pressures and temperatures. Both of these parameters have been increased in modern aircraft engines to significantly reduce fuel ISO 14001 – International environmental management system consumption as well as emissions of carbon monoxide and unCompanies thereby receive an effective instrument that allows burned hydrocarbons. However, future combustion chambers of an them to take environmental aspects into consideration in decisions advanced design could help reduce NOX emissions by 85 percent. relating to corporate policies and to continuously improve the Air traffic contributes 2 to 3 percent of man-made NOX emissions. situation of environmental care in relation to all daily tasks. Climate models show that nitrogen oxides have increased the conwww.iso.org centration of ozone at cruising altitudes by a few percentage points. NOX – see “Nitrogen oxides” 94 // Service and Information O Sustainable development According to the guiding principle of sustainable development oekom formulated in 1987 by the World Commission for Development The oekom Corporate Rating evaluates the social and environmental and the Environment (Brundtland Commission), “sustainable compatibility of companies according to a selection of 100 industrydevelopment is […] a form of development that meets the needs specific indicators on average. Companies that rank in the top of of today’s generation without jeopardizing the abilities of future their respective industries in the context of an oekom Corporate generations to satisfy their own.” For businesses, this means acting Rating and fulfill the industry-specific minimum criteria are awarded responsibly not only in economic matters but also in environmental the oekom Prime Status by oekom research. and social issues. All three aspects – economic, ecological, and www.oekom-research.com social – must be kept in balance. OHSAS 18001 – T Occupational Health and Safety Assessment Series Job safety management system developed by the British Standards Institution in cooperation with international certification organizations. Tonne kilometer (TKT / TKO) Measure of transport performance (payload multiplied by distance). Ozone A distinction is made between available transport performance Molecule formed in the stratosphere and consisting of three oxygen (TKO, tonne kilometers offered) and the actual transport performance atoms. The ozone layer located in the stratosphere has an important (TKT, tonne kilometers transported). In calculating payloads, pasprotective function, as it absorbs harmful ultraviolet light. While ozone sengers are taken into account by means of a statistical average at higher altitudes is broken down massively by chlorofluorocarbons weight. (CFCs), it develops close to the ground under the influence of sunlight from numerous precursor substances (summer smog) and irritates Transparency International the mucous membranes. At current levels, nitrogen oxide emissions Anti-corruption organization, of which L­ ufthansa has been a memfrom air traffic at cruising altitudes cause an increase in atmospheric ber since 1999. www.transparency.de ozone, analogous to the generation of summer smog, estimated by scientists at 3 to 4 percent on the heavily-flown North Atlantic routes. U P UHC – Unburned hydrocarbons Organic mixture of carbon and hydrogen that results from the Passenger kilometer (PKO/PKT) incomplete combustion of fuels containing hydrocarbons or from Measure for transport performance in passenger carriage (number the evaporation of fuel. of passengers multiplied by distance flown). A distinction is made between available transport performance (PKO, passenger kilometers offered, or, synonymously, SKO, seat kilometers offered) and actual W transport performance (PKT, passenger kilometers transported). Water vapor S The most important greenhouse gas, even ahead of carbon dioxide. Without water vapor from natural sources, the Earth’s surface would be around 22 degrees Celsius cooler. This makes SAFUG – Sustainable Aviation Fuel Users Group water vapor responsible for two-thirds of the natural greenhouse Initiative of airlines, aircraft manufacturers, and providers of refinery effect (33 degrees Celsius). For each kilogram of kerosene burned, technology whose goal is to accelerate the development and com1.24 kilograms of water vapor are released. Concerns that air mercialization of sustainable fuels for the air transport industry. traffic might increase the concentration of water vapor in the stratowww.safug.org sphere and thus change the climate have been refuted by scientific research. The German Aerospace Center (DLR) concluded that Seat kilometer even a one hundred-fold increase in the quantity of water vapor Measure for the transport capacity available (SKO, seat kilometers emitted by air traffic would not result in a detectable climatic signal. offered). Wet-lease Seat load factor / overall load factor Leasing of an aircraft from another airline, including its cockpit Utilization of capacities expressed in percent. The load factor and cabin crews as well as maintenance and insurance. describes the ratio of performance sold to performance offered. The seat load factor (SLF) is applied to passenger transport; the overall load factor (OLF) to freight transport or total transport performance. Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2017 // Lufthansa Group // 95 GRI index GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURE STRATEGY & ANALYSIS G4-1 Statement by the Executive Board on the organization’s sustainability page 3 G4-2 Description of key impacts, risks and opportunities page 16 ff., page 33 Annual Report 2016, page 57 ff. ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE G4-3 Name of the organization page 4 f. G4-4 Primary brands, products and services page 4 f. G4-5 Location of the organization’s headquarters page 4 f. G4-6 Countries where the organization operates page 4 f. For further important locations of service companies see Annual Report 2016, pages 52 and 55 G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form page 4 f. Annual Report 2016, page 8 The shareholder structure, updated quarterly, can be accessed at: www.lufthansagroup.com/investor-relations G4-8 Markets served page 4 f. Annual Report 2016, page 15 f. Given their materiality, the information presented in the sustainability report refer to the worldwide route network of the Lufthansa Group airlines. G4-9 Scale of the organization page 2, page 4 f. Annual Report 2016 G4-10 Employee figures page 88 f. UNGC No separation by gender and by region, as this data is not control relevant. No description of staff by employees and staff subject to directives, and no indication of the share recognized as permanent freelance employees, and employees and staff subject to directives of contractual partners. G4-11 Employees covered by collective bargaining agreements In Germany, almost all companies are subject to collective agreements UNGC (close to 100 percent). For the entire Lufthansa Group this statement is not OECD possible at the moment. G4-12 Description of the organization's supply chain page 4 f., page 85 In this report, the primary focus is on the product “flying” without upstream and downstream processes. G4-13 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding the No significant changes during the reporting year organization's size, structure or ownership G4-14 Explanation of how the precautionary principle is addressed The management of opportunities and risks is integrated in all business UNGC processes, see Annual Report 2016, page 57 ff. To manage environmentally relevant opportunities and risks, the Group has developed numerous mechanisms. These range from the Environmental Strategy 2020 to environmental programs and environmental management systems, see page 33 ff. G4-15 Externally developed sustainability agreements/principles/initiatives to page 22, page 26 which the organization subscribes or which it endorses An overview of the most important, voluntarily supported initiatives can be accessed at: www.lufthansagroup.com/responsibility G4-16 Active memberships of associations and organizations page 22 An overview of the most important memberships can be accessed at: www.lufthansagroup.com/responsibility IDENTIFIED MATERIAL ASPECTS AND BOUNDARIES G4-17 Companies incuded in the consolidated financial statement page 1, page 85 G4-18 Process for defining the report content page 19 G4-19 Identified material aspects page 20 f. G4-20 Report the Aspect Boundary within the organization page 20 f. G4-21 Report the Aspect Boundary outside the organization page 20 f. G4-22 Effects and reasons of any restatements of information No significant changes during the reporting year G4-23 Changes in the scope, aspect boundaries or measuring methods applied page 20 f. 96 // Service and Information STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT G4-24 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization page 19 G4-25 Identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage page 19 G4-26 Approaches to stakeholder engagement page 23 G4-27 Results of the engagement page 20 f. REPORT PROFILE G4-28 Reporting period page 1 G4-29 Previous report page 1 G4-30 Reporting cycle page 1 G4-31 Contact point for questions regarding the report page 99 G4-32 GRI Index page 1, page 95 ff. G4-33 External assurance The current report was not audited externally, except the Scope1-3 emissions data (see page 90, Verification statement). GOVERNANCE G4-34 Governance structure of the organization page 16 Annual Report 2016, page 11, page 75 ETHICS AND INTEGRITY G4-56 Organization's values, principles, standards and norms of behavior page 24 ff. A Code of Conduct was adopted in 2017. Internal and external communication will follow in the course of 2017. G4-57 Internal and external mechanisms for seeking advice page 24 ff. on ethical and lawful behavior G4-58 Mechanisms for reporting concerns about unethical or unlawful behavior page 26 SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES CATEGORY: ECONOMIC ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE G4-DMA Disclosure on management approach page 17 f. G4-EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed page 2 For additional data see Annual Report 2016 G4-EC2 Implications, risks and opportunities related to the organization’s action page 33 due to climate change In addition, there is comprehensive reporting on the participation in the CDP climate change report, see: www.cdp.net G4-EC3 Coverage of the organization‘s defined benefit plan obligations page 68 f. Annual Report 2016, page 129 f. MARKET PRESENCE G4-EC5 Ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared to local miniThe Lufthansa Group has its main business location in Germany. As mum wage at significant locations of operation almost all Group companies are subject to collective agreements, and thus also to legal minimum wage standards, further data is not control relevant. CATEGORY: ENVIRONMENTAL ENERGY G4-DMA Disclosure on management approach page 33 ff., page 36 ff. G4-EN3 Energy consumption within the organization page 86 G4-EN4 Energy consumption outside the organization page 37 G4-EN5 Energy intensity page 38 f., page 86 f. G4-EN6 Reduction of energy consumption pages 40-44 WATER G4-DMA Disclosure on management approach The current report concentrates primarily on describing the product “flying” without upstream and downstream processes. Therefore, the focus of reporting is on fuel consumption and emissions produced by the Lufthansa Group airlines. EMISSIONS G4-DMA Disclosure on management approach page 36 ff. G4-EN15 Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions page 37 G4-EN16 Energy indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions page 37 G4-EN17 Other indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions page 37 G4-EN18 Intensity of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions page 38 f., page 86 f. G4-EN19 Reduction of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions page 43 G4-EN21 NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions page 87 Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2017 // Lufthansa Group // 97 EFFLUENTS & WASTE G4-DMA Disclosure on management approach page 45 f. The current report concentrates primarily on describing the product “flying” without upstream and downstream processes. Therefore, the focus of reporting is on fuel consumption and emissions produced by the Lufthansa Group airlines. PRODUCTS AND SERVICES G4-DMA Disclosure on management approach page 33 ff., page 36 ff. G4-EN27 Extent of impact mitigation of environmental impacts of products and page 36 ff. services SUPPLIER ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT G4-EN32 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using environmental page 27 criteria There are plans to anchor the subject of sustainability even more profoundly in the supply chain in the future. For this purpose, non-financial ratios are to be developed to be better able to measure sustainabilityrelevant aspects in the procurement process. CATEGORY: SOCIAL LABOR PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK EMPLOYMENT G4-DMA Disclosure on management approach page 61 ff. G4-LA3 Return to work and retention rates after parental leave page 66 The compatibility of work and private life is an important element for the Lufthansa Group to provide long-term support to employees to maintain their ability to work and perform. During the reporting year, 27.4 percent of the Lufthansa Group’s employees worked part-time, 72.3 percent of whom were women. Furthermore, numerous employees took family leave. A nuanced analysis of return rates is currently not yet possible, but is targeted for the future. LABOR/MANAGEMENT RELATIONS G4-DMA Disclosure on management approach page 68 ff. G4-LA4 Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes In accordance with the stipulations of Industrial Relations Law and in the UNGC sense of an active social partnership, the responsible bodies of codetermination and the Company’s publics are informed at an early stage. OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY G4-DMA Disclosure on management approach page 72 f. G4-LA5 Percentage of total workforce represented in formal management-worker In Germany, work protection committees that include representatives OECD health and safety committees of employees and employer are active at all locations of the Lufthansa Group. They jointly optimize processes and agree on measures to improve work protection. All employees in Germany are represented in work protection committees. G4-LA8 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions Occupational safety is regulated in Germany by the Occupational Health OECD and Safety Act and other legal stipulations. Within the Lufthansa Group, occupational safety is regulated within the Company’s own responsibility and in cooperation between the divisions Occupational Safety and Corporate Medical Services, and the employees’ representations. Employment agreements were concluded concerning a number of subjects. The continued evolution in this area is ensured. TRAINING AND EDUCATION G4-DMA Disclosure on management approach page 70 f. G4-LA10 Programs for skills management and lifelong page 62, page 69 OECD learning DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY G4-DMA Disclosure on management approach page 63 ff. G4-LA12 Composition of governance bodies and employee breakdown The composition of the supervisory bodies is monitored with regard to the share of women and used for targeted control. An extension of this view to further diversity criteria, such as age and internationality, is planned as a perspective for management positions and the Executive Board/top management. Further differentiation is currently not control relevant for the Lufthansa Group. EQUAL REMUNERATION FOR MEN AND WOMEN G4-LA13 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men page 66 SUPPLIER LABOR PRACTICE ASSESSMENT G4-LA14 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using labor practices page 27 criteria There are plans to anchor the subject of sustainability even more profoundly in the supply chain in the future. For this purpose, non-financial ratios are to be developed to be better able to measure sustainabilityrelevant aspects in the procurement process. 98 // Service and Information HUMAN RIGHTS INVESTMENTS G4-DMA Disclosure on management approach page 24 ff. G4-HR2 Employee training on human rights Concerning the topic of human rights, a due diligence process is currently being developed that is also to include a training tool. In the past, a voluntary learning tool was available on the Group intranet. Indications concerning the number of training hours are not possible. EQUAL OPPORTUNITIES G4-DMA Disclosure on management approach page 63 ff. G4-HR3 Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken A tried-and-tested complaints management exists at the Lufthansa Group, UNGC which is also used for complaints concerning human rights. It provides OECD that employees contact their direct supervisor, HR or their internal employee representations, or the external ombudsman. In the event of justified complaints, appropriate countermeasures are taken. FREEDOM OF ASSOCIATION AND COLLECTIVE BARGAINING G4-DMA Disclosure on management approach page 68 f. G4-HR4 Right to exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining For the reporting year it is assumed that no business activity of the UNGC Lufthansa Group posed a risk for the employees’ free exercise of their OECD rights concerning the freedom of association and collective bargaining. ASSESSMENT G4-HR9 Business locations that were screened using human rights criteria page 26 f. In the process of human-rights related due diligence, risk countries and Group companies in Extreme Risk and High Risk countries were identified. In the subsequent process, the individual companies will identify their specific risks. Individual locations have not yet been assessed. The principles of the UN Global Compact have been in effect since 2002 on a global scale. SUPPLIER HUMAN RIGHTS ASSESSMENT G4-HR10 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using human rights page 27 criteria There are plans to anchor the subject of sustainability even more profoundly in the supply chain in the future. For this purpose, non-financial ratios are to be developed to be better able to measure sustainabilityrelevant aspects in the procurement process. HUMAN RIGHTS GRIEVANCE MECHANISMS G4-HR12 Number of grievances about human rights impacts filed, addressed and see G4-HR3 resolved through formal grievance mechanisms ANTI-CORRUPTION G4-DMA Disclosure on management approach page 24 G4-SO3 Operations asessed for risks related to corruption page 26 UNGC OECD G4-SO4 Communication and training on anti-corruption policies and procedures page 25 UNGC OECD SUPPLIER SOCIETY IMPACT ASSESSMENT G4-SO9 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using criteria for impacts page 27 OECD on society There are plans to anchor the subject of sustainability even more profoundly in the supply chain in the future. For this purpose, non-financial ratios are to be developed to be better able to measure sustainabilityrelevant aspects in the procurement process. PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY CUSTOMER HEALTH AND SAFETY G4-DMA Disclosure on management approach page 56 ff. G4-PR1 Percentage of significant product and service categories for which health page 56 ff. OECD and safety impacts are assessed PRODUCT AND SERVICE LABELING G4-DMA Disclosure on management approach page 53 ff. G4-PR5 Results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction page 53 f. CUSTOMER PRIVACY G4-DMA Disclosure on management approach page 58 f. G4-PR8 Substantiated complaints regarding data protection page 58 In 2016, as in 2015, the Lufthansa Group did not record a reportable violation of data protection as defined by Germany’s Federal Data Protection Act. Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2017 // Lufthansa Group // 99 Editorial information Contact partner Published by Photo credits Deutsche Lufthansa AG Deutsche Lufthansa AG Lufthansa Technik (cover) Lufthansa Group Communications Lufthansa Group Communications Andreas Pohlmann (page 3) Susanne Kotysch Senior Vice President: Andreas Bartels Sonja Brüggemann (page 8) Head of Corporate Responsibility & Gregor Schläger (pages 10, 34, 47, 60, Events Management Concept and editors 63, 67, 76) FRA CI/B Lufthansa Group Communications Oliver Rösler (pages 10, 14, 16, 18, 30, Lufthansa Aviation Center Corporate Responsibility & 54, 62, 66, 73, 77, 82) Airportring Events Management Daniel Kummer (page 11) D-60546 Frankfurt/Main Director: Susanne Kotysch Isabelle Mager (page 11) balance@dlh.de www.thenounproject.com (pages 12, 13) Steffen Milchsack Hans-Gerd Säcker (page 14) Claudia Walther Andreas Amann (page 15) Please note that www.LH.com is the Photogenika (page 22) central contact point for all inquiries conDesign and production Lufthansa Cargo (pages 27, 81) cerning customer service. Under the header organic Marken-Kommunikation GmbH, Jens Görlich (pages 30, 49, 56) “Help & Contact” you will find full informaFrankfurt SWISS (pages 30, 42, 65) tion on how to contact Lufthansa. Austrian Airlines (page 31) Copy deadline Kirsten Karacan (page 32) You will find further information on susJune 16, 2017 Jürgen Mai (page 36) tainability within the Lufthansa Group at: David Weigelt (page 41) www.lufthansagroup.com/responsibility Paper Stefan Rebscher (page 50) Contents: ENVIRO TOP, recycling paper Rolf Wenzel (page 51) Order your copy of our Annual Report 2016: made from 100 percent recycled paper. organic Marken-Kommunikation (pages 52, www.lufthansagroup.com/investor-relations Produced without optical brightening agents 60, 74) or chlorine bleach. Certified with The Blue Dominik Mentzos (pages 55, 59) Angel environmental label – RAL-UZ 14. Squaredpixes, Getty Images (page 60) Cover: Hello Fat Matt (FSC-certified) Silvia Wels (page 65) Patrick Kuschfeld (pages 65, 80, 83) carbon neutral Rolf Bewersdorf (page 78) natureOffice.com | DE-197-588722 Cargo Human Care (pages 79, 80) print production Joachim Pfeifer (page 79) www.fotolia.com: rcfotostock (page 84) Others: Lufthansa Group photo archive Reprints, including excerpts, only with written permission from the publisher and by citing Deutsche Lufthansa AG as the source (text and images). In this case we ask that you send us a copy or clipping. Printed in the Federal Republic of Germany ISSN 1612-0906 Most stringent noise standards for the Lufthansa Group’s fleet Margins below the noise limit of ICAO Chapter 3 and Chapter 4 Active fleet of the Lufthansa Group on December 31, 2016 in EPNdB 0 – 10.0 * A330-300 LH – 18.4 Of the 613 aircraft in the Lufthansa Group’s active fleet, 610 fulfill the stringent Chapter A330-300 LX / WK – 18.3 / – 18.4 4 noise standard of the International Civil A330-200 EW – 12.8 Aviation Organization (ICAO). The most important element of Chapter 4 is the minus A340-300 LH – 22.6 10 EPNdB criterion (Effective Perceived A340-300 LX/WK – 22.1 Noise dB); see the vertical broken line in A340-600 LH – 23.0 the overview on the left. The limits depend on the aircraft’s maximum takeoff weight A350-900 LH – 31.9 and number of engines. A380-800 LH – 25.8 / – 26.7 B747-400 LH – 13.6 The bar chart indicates the sum of the differences between the measured value and B747-830 LH – 25.6 the threshold value at the three measuring B767-300 OS – 16.6 / – 16.8 points by type of aircraft (cumulated margin). Where necessary, the values based on the B777-200 OS – 20.9 / – 21.1 reduced maximum takeoff weight prevailing B777-300 LX – 16.0 in flight operations are indicated. To allow B777F LH – 17.0 a more transparent depiction, an improved method of analysis was developed for the MD-11F LH – 13.5 previous issues of Balance, which include A319-100 LH – 15.3 / – 19.3 the individual noise certificate data of all Group aircraft. Different versions of an airA319-100 LX – 18.2 craft and its engines by year of construction A319-100 OS – 19.3 are thus better taken into account. AccordA319-100 4U – 17.4 / – 19.4 ingly, the value ranges from the lowest to the highest cumulated margin are indicated A320-200 LH – 13.4 / – 29.8 for many fleets. The analysis also takes into A320-200 LX/WK – 14.3 / – 15.9 account any modifications to aircraft or engines that have been made in the meanA320-200 OS – 15.0 / – 15.9 time, thereby leading to modified noise data A320-200 4U – 13.4 and cumulated margins in certain cases. A320-200 EW – 16.4 / – 17.2 In addition, numerous additions and withdrawals in individual fleets lead to changes A321-100 LH – 15.5 in the value ranges reported. A321-100 LX – 10.0 / – 10.8 A321-100 OS – 11.5 A321-200 LH – 14.1 / – 15.1 A321-200 LX – 14.4 A321-200 OS – 9.0 Avro RJ100 LX – 16.4 CS100 LX – 28.3 Bombardier CRJ900 CL – 16.6 Bombardier CRJ900 EW – 16.6 Grouping of aircraft types according to MTOW DHC8-400 OS – 23.9 / – 25.9 (maximum takeoff weight): Embraer 190 CL – 15.1 under 50 t 50 to 150 t more than 150 t This division generally corresponds to a groupEmbraer 195 CL – 14.9 ing of regional, continental, and intercontinental Embraer 195 EN – 14.9 aircraft. Embraer 195 OS – 14.9 / – 15.3 4U = Germanwings Fokker 70 OS – 24.3 / – 25.9 CL = Lufthansa CityLine Fokker 100 OS – 16.2 EN = Air Dolomiti EW = Eurowings LH = Lufthansa, Lufthansa Cargo LX = SWISS * New ICAO Chapter 4 limit, which has been effective for new aircraft since 2006: OS = Austrian Airlines – 10 EPNdB when compared to Chapter 3. WK = Edelweiss Air The operating ﬂeet of the Lufthansa Group (as of December 31, 2016) Lufthansa and regional partners Embraer 195 CL: 14 aircraft, 120 seats, 2,300 km range EN: 10 aircraft, 120 seats, 2,300 km range Airbus A380-800 LH: 14 aircraft, 509 seats, 12,400 km range Embraer 190 CL: 9 aircraft, 100 seats, 3,500 km range Boeing 747-8 LH: 19 aircraft, 364 seats, 13,000 km range Bombardier CRJ900 CL: 29 aircraft, 90 seats, 2,100 km range Boeing 747-400 LH: 13 aircraft, 371 seats, 11,850 km range Eurowings and Germanwings Airbus A340-600 LH: 24 aircraft, 297 seats, 12,900 km range Airbus A330-200 EW: 6 aircraft, 310 seats, 10,100 km range Airbus A330-203, D-AXGB, detailed version, left side Airbus A350-900 LH: 1 aircraft, 293 seats, 12,650 km range Airbus A320-200 EW: 25 aircraft, 180 seats, 4,000 km range 4U: 16 aircraft, 168 seats, 3,100 km range Airbus A340-300 LH: 12 aircraft, 283 seats, 11,800 km range CL: 6 aircraft, 300 seats, 11,500 km range Airbus A319-100 4U: 43 aircraft, 150 seats, 2,900 km range Airbus A330-300 LH: 19 aircraft, 236 seats, 9,850 km range Bombardier CRJ900 EW: 6 aircraft, 90 seats, 2,100 km range Airbus A321-100 / 200 LH: 63 aircraft, 200 seats, 2,600 km/ 4,150 km range Lufthansa Cargo Airbus A320neo LH: 5 aircraft, 180 seats, 3,000 km range Boeing MD-11F LH: 12 aircraft, 579 m3/ 89.4 t, 6,700 km range Airbus A320-200 LH: 62 aircraft, 168 seats, 3,200 km range Airbus A319-100 LH: 30 aircraft, 138 seats, 3,350 km range Boeing 777F LH: 5 aircraft, 657 m3/103 t, 8,900 km range // 102 SWISS and Edelweiss Air Austrian Airlines Boeing 777-300ER LX: 6 aircraft, 340 seats, 13,650 km range Boeing 777-200ER OS: 5 aircraft, 308 seats, 12,100 km range Boeing 777-200ER, Austrian Airlines, OE-LPD „Spirit of Austria“, detailed version, left side Airbus A340-300 LX: 10 aircraft, 219 seats, 13,000 km range Boeing 767-300ER OS: 6 aircraft, 214 seats, 10,250 km range Boeing 767-300ER, Austrian Airlines, OE-LAZ „India“, detailed version, left side Airbus A330-300 LX: 14 aircraft, 236 seats, 9,850 km range Airbus A321-100 / 200 OS: 6 aircraft, 200 seats, 2,600 km/ 4,100 km range Airbus A321-111, Austrian Airlines, OE-LBB „Pinzgau“, detailed version, left side Airbus A321-100 / 200 LX: 9 aircraft, 219 seats, 2,100 km range Airbus A320-200 OS: 18 aircraft, 168 seats, 4,150 km range Airbus A320-200 LX: 22 aircraft, 180 seats, 2,700 km range Airbus A320-214, Austrian Airlines, OE-LBS „Waldviertel“, detailed version, left side Airbus A319-100 OS: 7 aircraft, 138 seats, 3,350 km range Airbus A319-100 LX: 5 aircraft, 138 seats, 3,350 km range Airbus A319-112, Austrian Airlines, OE-LDA „Sofia“, detailed version, left side Bombardier CS100 LX: 5 aircraft, 125 seats, 2,750 km range Embraer 195 OS: 10 aircraft, 120 seats, 2,300 km range Embraer ERJ195, Austrian Airlines, OE-LWD „Central Europe“, detailed version, left side Avro RJ100 LX: 8 aircraft, 97 seats, 2,150 km range Fokker 100 OS: 8 aircraft, 100 seats, 2,100 km range Airbus A340-300 WK: 1 aircraft, 314 seats, 11,850 km range Fokker 70 OS: 3 aircraft, 80 seats, 2,250 km range Airbus A330-300 WK: 2 aircraft, 315 seats, 10,000 km range Bombardier Q400 OS: 18 aircraft, 76 seats, 1,350 km range DeHavilland DHC-8-402Q, Austrian Airlines, OE-LGK „Burgenland“, detailed version, left side Range indicated in general with maximum number of passengers or payload, respectively. Airbus A330-200 WK: 1 aircraft, 275 seats, 10,800 km range In part, different versions are in operation. Legend 4U = Germanwings EW = Eurowings LX = SWISS CL = Lufthansa CityLine LH = Lufthansa, OS = Austrian Airlines Airbus A320-200 WK: 6 aircraft, 174 seats, 4,050 km range EN = Air Dolomiti Lufthansa Cargo WK = Edelweiss Air Corporate Responsibility: // 103 Prizes, awards and indices Every year, the Lufthansa Group and the Group companies receive numerous prizes and awards. Here is a selection of those related to the topic of Corporate Responsibility: 2016 • At the Future Business Austria Infrastructure Symposium, Austrian • The US trade publication Air Transport World honored the partners Airlines received the Infrastructure Award Red Arrow for the of the initiative E-PORT AN, which includes the Lufthansa Group, company’s strategic development and its contribution to securing as Eco-company Partnership of the Year. It thus acknowledges the hub function of Vienna’s Schwechat Airport. The award has their pioneering role and their commitment to more electrobeen given once a year since 2007 to companies, individuals mobility on the apron. and institutions for particularly noteworthy initiatives concerning • San Francisco Airport honored Lufthansa as Quietest Overall Austrian infrastructure and the business location Austria. Airline, an award that is given in the context of the “Fly Quiet • The Austrian Federal Ministry of Science, Research and Economy Program”. The airport’s Round Table Initiative praised above all awarded the State Prize KnewLEDGE 2016 for exemplary the airline’s efforts in the areas of fleet modernization and noise intracompany continuing education measures and honored reduction. the personnel development program of Austrian Airlines with • For its analysis software OMEGA, which it jointly developed with second place. IT company Aviaso, Lufthansa received the Innovation Award of German Aviation in the category emissions reduction. 2017 • The City of Los Angeles certified Lufthansa Cargo’s local station • Lufthansa Cargo was rated by DHL Global Forwarding with four as a Green Business. The certification, which will be valid until “green aircraft” as preferred carrier and awarded the GoGreen March 2019, proves that the logistics specialist’s operations in Carrier Certificate. Los Angeles are in accordance with sustainable principles and • With the project “OMEGA – CO2 Reduction on the Basis of Big use resources sparingly. Data” Lufthansa Cargo won the German Award for Excellence • Wholly-owned Lufthansa Cargo subsidiary Jettainer and Cologne of audit company DQS in the Environmental Responsibility University make a contribution to more efficient ULD planning category. At the German CSR Prize, the company reached the through the big-data joint project “Decision Support System”: finals with OMEGA in the category CO2 avoidance as a contrias a result, the transportation of empty loading containers can bution to climate protection, together with two other companies. be avoided. The project came in second at the German Logistic Awards and qualified as a finalist for the IATA Air Cargo InnoIn 2016 Deutsche Lufthansa AG was listed in the following vation Awards 2017 and the German Innovation Award. sustainability indices and received the following ratings: • The Health Management of Swiss International Air Lines received the Health Award of Foundation for Health Promotion • FTSE4Good Zurich 2016. Since 2015, the airline has also held the Friendly • ECPI EMU Ethical Equity Workspace label. • ECPI Euro Ethical Equity • Since 2005, Austrian Airlines has participated in the environmental • ECPI Euro ESG Equity initiative ÖkoBusinessPlan of the City of Vienna. It supports com• ECPI World ESG Equity panies in implementing ecologically and economically relevant • MSCI Global Sustainability Index Series measures. As in the preceding years, the airline again received • oekom Prime Rating the coveted ÖkoProfit award for numerous projects in 2016. • With a climate scoring result of “B” in the CDP Climate Change • Austrian Airlines was again named European champion in service Report 2016, Deutsche Lufthansa AG has achieved the status in 2016: For the third time in a row, the airline won the title Best “Sector Leader Transportation” in the DACH region. The Group Airline Staff Service in Europe at the renowned Skytrax World thus ranks among the industry’s best in Germany, Austria and Airline Awards 2016, which includes both cabin and ground Switzerland. personnel. Deutsche Lufthansa AG Lufthansa Group Communications Lufthansa Aviation Center 60546 Frankfurt am Main Germany E-mail: balance@dlh.de Balance is a registered title. © June 2017 www.lufthansagroup.com/responsibility
