2016 Better World Report Cover Photo: OneRedEye Visual Communications Table of Contents 2 About AB InBev 3 Better World Overview 4 Letter from Our CEO 6 Performance Overview 8 Growing World 14 Cleaner World 20 Healthier World 26 Our People 30 Integrating Sustainability 31 Report Scope 32 Independent Assurance Report 2 Anheuser-Busch InBev About We are AB InBev. We are one company with one culture and one AB InBev Dream: bringing people together for a better world. For centuries, the simple act of sharing a beer has united people and cultures across the globe. We’ve dedicated ourselves to brewing the best beers for consumers—using only the finest, natural ingredients—in a variety of types and styles. We strive to empower communities to become stronger and more sustainable. As a company, we’re committed to driving growth and improving lives across our entire value chain—from our growers and retailers to our consumers and their communities. This year, AB InBev’s Better World reporting includes this selfcontained PDF document and content on ab-inbev.com. The PDF document primarily summarizes our 2016 activities, initiatives, achievements and challenges, while the website, housed within the Better World section, provides further information on our Better World strategy and ongoing activities. Together, the PDF and website content constitute our sustainability reporting for 2016. Aggregated data on newer beverage facilities (including SABMiller legacy businesses) that were acquired during the course of 2016 are not included in global data sets. However, information from SABMiller legacy businesses is included in scope of the report’s narrative. 3 2016 Better World Report Bringing People Together for a Better World In October 2016, following our combination with SABMiller, we introduced our updated Better World strategy, aligning our environmental, social and alcohol responsibility efforts around three core pillars to make the world a better place. By combining the scale of our operations, resources and passion of colleagues around the world, we’re working to bring this vision to life. PILLAR PILLAR PILLAR Growing World Cleaner World Healthier World We envision a growing world We want a cleaner world where We are committed to promoting where everyone has the opportunity natural resources are shared a healthier world where every to improve their livelihood. To get and preserved for the future. experience with beer is a positive there, we help drive agricultural We are dedicated to enhancing one for lives well lived. We will productivity, innovation and water access and security across extend and expand our Global resilience, supporting our growers our markets through watershed Smart Drinking Goals to help and their communities. We are restoration and conservation ensure the harmful use of alcohol also committed to helping small programs, and by mobilizing a is reduced significantly and mearetailers grow—providing the global movement for water access. surably across all of our markets. next generation of entrepreneurs We will continue to tackle climate across our markets with the change through reducing our business skills and opportunities carbon emissions, investing in they need to thrive. sourcing renewable electricity and increasing the recycled content in our packaging materials. Our People We are on a journey to embed sustainability throughout Our people are what matters most. our business and across our supply They are the ones committed to chain, enabling growth and opportunity achieving our Dream of a Better for our company and communities World. We recruit, develop and in our markets. It is our mission retain colleagues who we believe to address issues, not only relevant can make us better, seeking out for our business, but relevant to those with strong leadership communities where we can make a potential and a disruptive mindset. positive impact. By working together They work with us as we innovate with local communities, NGOs, and build a company to last. suppliers, governments, consumers and beyond, we’re working to create value for all. 4 Anheuser-Busch InBev Letter from Our CEO In October 2016, we completed our combination with SABMiller, making us the first truly global brewer and one of the world’s leading consumer products companies. Having now met many of our new colleagues, we are excited to work together and are enthusiastic about the skills, passion, commitment and drive of our combined global talent base. We are particularly excited about how Environmental Goals and advancing report, we will demonstrate how we are the combination will help us further our our Global Smart Drinking Goals, advancing towards achieving the SDGs, Dream of bringing people together for a the latter were launched in 2015. but also where we face challenges and better world. In October, we introduced need to work in partnership with others Reflecting our continued ambition to our updated Better World strategy, to find and to implement solutions. integrate sustainability into our business combining the best of both companies strategy, we recently expanded the role and aligning our environmental, social and alcohol responsibility efforts of Tony Milikin, who is now our Chief A Growing World Procurement & Sustainability Officer around three core pillars: and will help drive our agenda forward. Our ambition for a growing world gives → A growing world, where everyone everyone the opportunity to improve However, we know that we have to, has the opportunity to improve their their livelihoods. Some of the initiatives and can, do more. In 2015, the United livelihood; from this past year include the 4e Path Nations launched 17 Sustainable to Progress small retailer development → A cleaner world, where natural Development Goals (SDGs) to end program, which has helped over resources are shared and poverty, protect the planet and ensure 20,000 shopkeepers in Latin America preserved for the future; and prosperity for all. Expectations of develop the skills they need to improve business are high and we welcome the → A healthier world, where every their business sustainability and quality challenge to step up and collaborate experience with beer is a positive of life, and our SmartBarley program, in addressing these global challenges. one, for lives well lived. which has worked with over 4,500 Our Better World strategy aligns with the growers with the goal of cultivating In 2016, we made progress on SDGs, which present opportunities to the highest quality barley with the best our Better World strategy, having now both strengthen our business as well as yields and lowest cost. achieved all but one of our 2017 to contribute to society. Throughout this We have... Worked with more Committed to Extended our Established the than 4,500 growers securing 100% of our partnership with AB InBev Foundation to cultivate the purchased electricity Water.Org to in 2016, committed to highest quality from renewable provide access to invest 150 million over barley with the sources by 2025 safe water to 10 years to help abate best yields at the 3.5 million people harmful alcohol use, lowest cost in the developing encourage healthier world by 2020 lifestyles and advance broader social issues 5 2016 Better World Report UN Sustainable Development Goals Throughout our operations and supply chain, we are aligning our Better World pillars to the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) that address areas most material to our business and critical to our stakeholders. We have placed a deliberate focus on driving progress towards the goals where we can use our scale and partnerships to drive meaningful positive change. This diagram illustrates how the most material SDGs for our business are aligned to our Better World strategy. A Growing A Cleaner A Healthier World World World Additionally, agriculture is a critical A Healthier World As we expand globally, we encounter source of income and livelihood in a both opportunities and challenges. number of markets across Africa. We’re Our ambition is for a healthier world, We are committed to maintaining the working to make beer an affordable where every experience with beer is a highest compliance standards and to alternative to dangerous illicit alcohol positive one. This year, we continued growing our business the right way. We by brewing beer from local crops grown to make progress on our Global Smart have built a strong global compliance by smallholder farmers. Drinking Goals, empowering consumers team and integrated compliance targets to make smart drinking choices and into key aspects of our business. A change behaviors by shifting social global whistle-blower line ensures our A Cleaner World norms. One of our goals is to have colleagues can anonymously voice Noand Lower-Alcohol beer products concerns in a protected environment. Our ambition is for a cleaner world, represent 20% of our global beer where natural resources are shared Together with our new colleagues, our volumes by 2025. In 2016, we launched and preserved for the future. This year, ambition remains to build a company no-alcohol varieties of several brands, we continued Stella Artois’ Buy a to last. As we do this, we look forward including two 0.0% ABV global brands: Lady a Drink program with Water.org, to extending our reach and resources Budweiser Prohibition in Canada and which aims to tackle the global water to help ensure that day-by-day we Corona Cero in Mexico. crisis. Having to date supported nearly are helping create a Better World for 800,000 people, we recently announced As part of our Healthier World focus, we everyone. We invite you to explore our our ambition to provide access to have committed 150 million USD over progress and read more about where safe water to 3.5 million people in the a 10 year time period and created an AB we are going in the pages that follow developing world by 2020. InBev Foundation to invest in research and on our Better World website. to identify and share the most effective We are also excited about our commitways alcohol beverage producers ment to securing 100% of our purchased can reduce alcohol misuse and its electricity from renewable sources by associated harms. The Foundation also 2025, reducing our operational carbon will provide science-based guidance footprint by 30%. This will accelerate for the delivery and measurement of our the transformation of the global energy Carlos Brito Global Smart Drinking Goals. The market and aid the transition toward a Chief Executive Officer creation of this Foundation demonstrates low-carbon economy. our commitment to tackling harmful drinking in a sustained, measurable and evidence-based way. 6 Anheuser-Busch InBev Performance We have a strong culture of measuring and optimizing Overview our performance in all aspects of our operations. That is why we have set ambitious performance goals and regularly report on our progress. In addition to our Global Smart Drinking Goals, established in 2015, we track our progress on key metrics around environmental sustainability. In 2017, we look forward to closing out our Global Environmental Goals, and are happy to report that, in addition to the goals we previously reached, we reached four more goals in 2016, one year ealier than our target. We invite you to explore our 2016 progress on our Global Environmental Goals. With the combined, larger business in 2017, we will work on a new set of ambitious goals that continue to drive us in our dream of building a Better World. 7 2016 Better World Report 2017 Environmental Goals Our Progress in 2016 Goal Reduce water risks and improve Goal Engage in watershed protection Goal Reduce global water usage to a water management in 100% of our key measures at 100% of our facilities located leading-edge 3.2 hectoliters of water per barley-growing regions, in partnership in key areas in Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, hectoliter of production* with local stakeholders China, Mexico, Peru and the United States, in partnership with local stakeholders 2012 0% 2012 3.54 100% of 2013 2014 20% 50% 2013 2014 3.35 3.23 8 key regions 2015 86% 2015 3.20 hl/hl 2016 100% 2016 3.14 100% of eight key regions are actively reducing Percentage of facilities in key areas with Water use in hl by hectoliter of production water risks and improving water management watershed protection measures Goal Reduce global greenhouse gas emissions per hectoliter of production by 10%, Goal Reduce global energy usage per including a 15% reduction per hectoliter in China hectoliter of production by 10%* 2012 9.88 2012 16.42 2012 129.0 2013 9.82 2013 15.28 2013 124.6 2014 8.81 kg CO2e/hl 2014 12.57 kgCO2e/hl 2014 119.4 2015 7.99 2015 10.08 2015 117.6 2016 7.54 2016 10.06 2016 116.1 Mj/hl Global GHG emissions in kgCO2e/hl China GHG emissions in kgCO2e/hl Energy use in Mj/hl Goal Reduce packaging materials by Goal Reach a 70% global average of Goal Reduce greenhouse gas emissions 100,000 tons** eco-friendly cooler purchases annually in logistics operations by 15% per hectoliter sold from our 2013 baseline*** 2013 47.8 2013 16% 2013 3.62 kgCO2e/hl 2014 68.4 2014 47% 2014 3.50 2015 90.7 2015 84% 2015 3.35 2016 126.8 tons 2016 96% 2016 3.18 Reduction in packaging materials Percentage of eco-friendly cooler purchases Reduction in GHG emissions in kgCO2e/hl in thousand tons Operational water and energy goals are measured against An external assurance provider was engaged by AB InBev *Data is from the plants in the business footprint at the end a 2012 baseline; our logistics goal is measured against to verify the data for all of the Environment goals above with of 2012 when the goal was established. a 2013 baseline. the exception of: ** The reduction in packaging materials is calculated based Energy and water data above represents all beverage operations • The goal to reduce greenhouse gas emissions in on budgeted and actual (where available) production within the original scope of our 2017 goal—established logistics operations by 15% per hectoliter sold from our volumes of these packaging materials. Differences can exist in 2012. The 2015 data for water and total energy has been 2013 baseline; between actual and budgeted production volumes. updated due to the addition of various new acquisitions • Percentage of eco-friendly cooler purchases—for the and start-ups. year 2013. *** Our logistics goal was added in 2014 to formalize our aspiration to be the sustainable logistics leader in the The data in scope in relation to these goals can be found brewing industry. on page 32. 8 Anheuser-Busch InBev Growing World One of the most powerful contributions we can make to the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) is through the jobs we create and sustain and through the economic growth and investment that our business stimulates. This is why we strive to create a growing world where everyone has the opportunity to improve their livelihood. Small and medium-sized enterprises play a critical role in supporting economic growth and job creation. Globally, they account for nearly 70% of employment.1 However, many face significant challenges in starting and growing their businesses—from limited business skills and management experience to lack of access to markets and affordable financial products. We are working to accelerate growth and social development across our value chain—from growers to retailers. We help drive agricultural productivity, innovation and resilience, supporting our growers and their communities. We are also committed to helping small retailers expand their businesses— providing the next generation of entrepreneurs across our markets with the business skills and opportunities they need to thrive. Critical to our approach is working in partnership with others. We recognize no organization alone can address the challenges small enterprises face. We can have a greater and more sustained impact by working in collaboration across the private sector, government and civil society. We are committed to business practices that support and respect human rights 1 International Trade Centre, 2015. 2 Bain & Company, 2014 3 FAO, 2013 4 WRI, 2013 9 2016 Better World Report and that align with the UN Global We know that volatility in the external Compact principles. In 2016, we updated environment caused by water stress, our Global Human Rights Policy, which soil and climate risks, infrastructure SmartBarley sets out standards, expectations and challenges and human rights issues commitments in relation to our responcan be a barrier to growth and supply Countries Argentina, Brazil, Canada, Covered China, India, Mexico, Russia, sibility to respect and promote human security. Today around 2.5 billion people Uruguay, United Kingdom rights within our own company and to not, rely on agriculture for their livelihoods and United States knowingly, contribute to the violations of and the majority of these people are human rights by other parties. living on less than 4 USD per day.2 With We initiated our smart agriculture the world’s population predicted to strategy with barley—the “soul” of Read AB InBev’s Human exceed 9 billion by 2050, food production beer. We have a long history of working Rights Policy at will need to grow by 60% to meet with our barley growers through www.ab-inbev.com/ increased demand.3 Meanwhile, 25% our research and agriculture teams humanrights of global agriculture takes place in areas to help them produce high-quality with high water stress and extreme malt barley while reducing their weather, which affects agricultural yields environmental impact. Supporting local in many parts of the world.4 communities There is a clear need to help growers In 2013, we created SmartBarley— an innovative platform and incubator across the world improve their Around the world, our Foundations play which leverages data, technology and productivity and competitiveness, in an important role in supporting local insights to help growers solve challenges addition to being good stewards of communities where we operate. For and improve their productivity, liveli­ land and natural resources for the long example, in the US, in the past 20 years hoods and environmental performance. term. We want to optimize our supply the Anheuser-Busch Foundation has SmartBarley enables farmers to chains by investing in our growers, contributed more than 573 million USD benchmark their barley practices and accelerating agricultural innovations to charitable organizations. In Colombia, performance across our global grower and leveraging our skill and scale to Fundación Bavaria has two main network, exchanging best practices help transform agriculture. strategic pillars: 1) entrepreneurship that drive improved productivity and and 2) improving the quality of life in environmental practices. By the vulnerable communities and within Leveraging change end of 2016, over 4,500 growers had Bavaria’s value chain. participated in the program. through ‘SMART’ In South Africa, the primary focus agriculture Water stress is a major challenge of the SAB Foundation is to inspire affecting agriculture globally. In 2012, entrepreneurship as a means to We believe there is a great opportunity we set ourselves a goal of reducing growing the South African economy. to secure our supply chains and help water risks and improving water In addition, we have committed to a create more productive and resilient management in 100% of our key package of public interest commitments, food systems by making agriculture barley-growing regions by 2017. We which include a commitment to invest smart. For us, smart agriculture means have achieved this by working with 1 billion ZAR to areas including that we support growers with access to growers in our supply chain and setting supporting smallholder farmers and the tools, resources and partnerships up projects to improve productivity promoting enterprise development. they need to improve crop productivity, and water-use efficiency across key enhance grower livelihoods and protect regions in the US and Mexico. But we natural eco-systems. recognize water issues are complex Why agriculture matters to us As a global brewer, we need agricultural crops to brew our beers. After water, barley is the primary ingredient in beer and our key focus. We also source hops, rice and corn as well as local crops such as sorghum and cassava in Africa. 10 Anheuser-Busch InBev and long term in nature, and we will is why we are expanding this model by continue to work collaboratively with to engaging our third-party barley suppliers. strengthen water stewardship. Our third-party suppliers in Brazil, Working with UK and India are now participating in Smallholder Farmers Currently, we engage our direct growers SmartBarley. We are also mapping out in SmartBarley, which includes growers how this model can be applied to other Countries Botswana, Ghana, India, in our contracting programs and those crops including hops, rice, sorghum Covered Mexico, Mozambique, Nigeria, supported by our own agronomists. Swaziland, Tanzania, Uganda, and cassava. We want to increase our impact, which Zambia and Zimbabwe To read more on our SmartBarley programs around the world, Smallholder growers are an integral visit www.ab-inbev.com/smartbarley and www.smartbarley.com part of our value chain, but often face some of the biggest challenges in terms of their livelihoods and resilience. Our businesses in Africa have pioneered the use of local smallholder crops to create new affordable beer brands—like Eagle Lager made with local sorghum in Uganda and Impala made with local cassava in Mozambique—reaching new consumer segments and driving growth, while providing a market and increasing incomes for local smallholder farmers. We plan to strengthen our agriculture development teams across Africa, so we can have greater direct engagement with our barley, sorghum and cassava growers and support them to improve productivity, resourceefficiency and resilience. Growing our local sourcing in Mexico One of the most successful examples of SmartBarley in action comes from Mexico, where, in 2015, we announced that all barley required to meet our local malt house capacity would be sourced locally by 2017. We’ve gone from sourcing 70% of barley locally in 2014 to 86% in 2016 and we’re on track to achieve 100% local sourcing by 2017. Using SmartBarley, we’ve identified key supply chain gaps and implemented a number of projects to help growers optimize production and profitability while minimizing their environmental impact. These include: → Developing three new barley → Promoting conservation varieties which provide agriculture practices; and increased yields and incomes We support → Creating Conecta Modelo, smallholders across Africa for farmers; a pilot project with 150 barley and have created 15+ → Providing farmers with access farmers that use mobile devices to newer farm equipment by to receive climate, market and financing 100% of the cost; technical information. → Utilizing technology to optimize brand families grown with fertilizer use; local smallholder crops 11 2016 Better World Report Uganda: Developing smallholder supply chains and strengthening livelihoods In Uganda, agriculture is a critical source of income where more than a third of the population lives on less than 1.90 USD a day. Nile Breweries Limited (NBL) pioneered the development of Eagle Lager by sourcing locally, helping to create a secure income stream for more than 20,000 smallholder farmers in Uganda. It has also helped grow NBL’s market share 25% since it was created in 2002. Eagle brands now account for 66% of NBL’s total sales volumes. In 2016, we partnered with International Institute of Tropical Agriculture (IITA) to study the impact of our programs in Uganda. This study found the total household income of farmers in NBL’s supply chain is more than double compared to a control group. Approximately 80% of farmers said their quality of life had improved since joining the NBL initiative. However, there are still a number of challenges in smallholder supply chains, including low yields, gaps in skills and communication and weak availability of agribusiness services and financing. We partnered with TechnoServe in 2016 to help us map key opportunities to optimize our supply chains and enhance our social impact on farming communities. In 2017, we plan to advance our partnership with TechnoServe to help us improve the skills for our supply chain aggregators, train 2,000 farmers through their Farmer Field School model, and focus on empowering women and youth through these initiatives. 12 Anheuser-Busch InBev Supporting small TechnoServe commentary on our partnership retailers In Latin America, a large proportion “Across its emerging market operations, of beer is sold through traditional trade AB InBev has developed compelling channels, which are often small, initiatives—ranging from the creation of family-owned and -operated businesses. new beers using locally-sourced materials from small­holders, to supporting That is why we are committed to helping small retailers in its distribution network to improve their businesses—that small retailers in our value chain to create value for society, its customers and its business. In 2016, we develop and grow, in order to support partnered with AB InBev to further improve two of its existing flagship the current and next generation of programs—local sourcing of sorghum and barley in Uganda, and cassava entrepreneurs. in Mozambique (previously SABMiller businesses). By identifying innovative opportunities to improve farmer livelihoods and increase security of Small-scale shopkeepers, known locally supply, the partnership demonstrated AB InBev’s commitment to creating as tenderos, are the beating heart of sustainable “win-win” outcomes for AB InBev’s local businesses and the many communities across the region. communities in which they operate. But life is not always easy for a tendero. Their shops often earn just enough As the world’s largest brewer, AB InBev has the opportunity, the resources revenue to meet the daily needs of the and a clear business rationale to reach many more people in poverty owners and their families. To address with programs that create value for both the business and society. In the these challenges, we take a holistic, future, we would like to see AB InBev replicate the best of these “win-win” collaborative approach to create a step programs across its global footprint. In doing so, AB InBev should pursue change in improving their livelihoods quantifiable commercial and social impact, such as income improvements and prospects, partnering with other and value chain strengthening to achieve tangible outcomes for small organizations to help these tenderos enterprises in its supply chain and distribution networks.” develop and grow their businesses. Launched three years ago, our 4e Path to Progress program across six markets in Latin America has supported over 20,000 tenderos with business and leadership training, in partnership with the Inter-American Development Bank and FUNDES. Participating tenderos have increased average sales growth in the year post-training. In Peru and Colombia, this approach has been widened to include access to microfinance and technology. In Africa, our Retailer Development Program operates in 13 markets and has trained over 9,000 small retailers to help improve their businesses and incomes. 13 2016 Better World Report Financial inclusion In Peru, small retailers, many of which are owned and operated by women, are a critical source of employment and livelihoods and often serve as social hubs in communities. However, many operate on little more than a subsistence basis and are unable to respond to income shocks. Supporting small retailers also plays an Moreover, lack of access to appropriate important role in empowering women, and affordable financial services limits who operate small stores in the six their ability to secure investment for markets the program targets. According business growth and to protect them­ to the World Bank, economically selves from setbacks, forcing them to empowering women boosts GDP, operate within the cash economy and enhances productivity and feeds other leading to high transaction costs and development outcomes including those risk of theft. that directly impact children. Leveling For Backus, our business in Peru, the gender playing field can, in time, small retailers are an important product also lead to a fairer and more inclusive distribution channel. Over 96,000 society. small retailers play a role in Backus’ Learning from our experience in distribution chain, accounting for Latin America, we launched a Retailer approximately 40% of product sales. Development Program across 13 The challenges small retailers face markets in Africa, training over 9,000 can lead to distribution inefficiencies, small retailers to date to help improve such as high cash handling costs and their businesses and incomes. In 2017, lack of sales growth. we plan to build on our learnings Since 2012, Backus has collaborated from these programs to launch a new with banks, microfinance institutions retailer development program in Mexico. and government to increase small retailers’ access to financial services. Read more at The initiative has enabled retailers, who www.ab-inbev.com/ previously had no access to financial retailersupport services, to access payment services and obtain loans with preferential terms through mobile phones. Women comprise nearly As a result, more than 6,800 retailers 75% have received 38 million USD in loans, helping them increase revenues by around 16%. In addition, over 1,200 retailers have set up as ‘mini bank of small retailer branches’. Cash collection levels have (tienda) owners in the reduced from 60% to 30% of total transactions, saving Backus almost 2.3 six markets our million USD in cash handling expenses 4e Camino al Progreso and helping reduce security risks. program operates. 14 Anheuser-Busch InBev Cleaner World Climate change has far-reaching consequences for our business and the communities where we live and work, from water scarcity and energy constraints to reduced food security and increased health risks. This is holding back economic and social development of hundreds of millions of people around the world. At AB InBev, we are striving for a cleaner world where natural resources are shared and preserved for the future. Our approach to water Water is a key ingredient in all of our products and a scarce, unreliable or unsafe resource in many parts of the world (water scarcity already affects more than 40% of the global population5). Water resource challenges are increasingly magnified by climate pressures, inadequate infrastructure, mismanagement and poor governance. Left unmanaged, water risks negatively impact livelihoods, often among the poorest in society, resulting in significant missed opportunities for our communities. Goal 6 of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) is to ensure access to water and sanitation for all by 2030. Within this goal are targets for reducing water use, improving water quality and managing water resources in an integrated way that involves local communities, business and civil society. As a brewer, water is critical for us. Without water, there is no beer. Working in partnership with others, we have the opportunity to use our scale and expertise to work towards ensuring a reliable, clean supply of water is available for not just ourselves, but also for local communities and the environment. 5 United Nations, 2016 15 2016 Better World Report 2016 Water Sources Water Use by Hectoliter Total water savings or Production (in hl) 0.3% between 2012–2016 is 2012 3.54 equivalent to more than 2013 3.35 55 billion 15.0% 2014 3.23 12oz beer cans 43% 2015 3.20 2016 3.14 41.7% Throughout 2016 we continued to Total Water Use (billion hl) reduce the amount of water used in 2012 1.566 our breweries. Having already met our 2017 water usage environmental 2013 1.461 goal, we further reduced our global ● 43.0% Municipal water usage to 3.14 hectoliters of water per ● 41.7% Ground water 2014 1.489 hectoliter of production. We’re able to ● 15.0% Surface water 2015 1.521 make these improvements because we ● 0.3% Imported steam focus on onsite water efficiency and ● 0.0% Rain water 2016 1.466 risk management, watershed protection for operations and brewing materials, Assured Metric: Water data above represents all beverage operations within the original scope of our 2017 goal—established in 2012. The 2015 data for water has been updated due to the addition of various new acquisitions and start-ups. water access programs and employee engagement. In addition to saving water in our own (TNC), we invested financial and We know we do not have all the plants, we are dedicated to enhancing technical resources into green answers, which is why we constantly water access and security for people infrastructure initiatives, conservation seek feedback on our approach. and ecosystems across our markets and reforestation projects, habitat Our water initiatives are guided by through watershed restoration restoration efforts and soil conservation a Technical Advisory Committee made and conservation programs. In 2016, techniques. Through these initiatives, up of experts on watersheds, water we continued to scale our water we are increasing water security and systems and sustainable agriculture. stewardship efforts by engaging in improving water quality and availability This group supports our strategy watershed protection partnerships with for our communities and operations. development and execution and local stakeholders, focusing on high provides feedback on the economic, Moving into 2017, in partnership with stress areas across Argentina, Bolivia, environmental and social impacts TNC, we are planning to launch a new Brazil, China, Colombia, Mexico, Peru, of our initiatives. In 2016, the group watershed protection program in Mexico South Africa, the United States and reviewed our water risk methodology that will finance important conservation Zambia. Together with local authorities, and approach to partnerships with and restoration efforts in the water other water users and NGOs such a view to strengthen our programs in basin that supports Mexico City, one of as the World Wide Fund for Nature 2017, building on best practice from the most stressed ones in the world. (WWF) and The Nature Conservancy both AB InBev and SABMiller. Projeto Bacias, in partnership with The Nature Conservancy (TNC), aims to better manage important Brazilian water basins and improve the quality and quantity of available water. 16 Anheuser-Busch InBev Partnering to Protect Tackling water scarcity, reliability and quality issues government and the private sector are working together requires collaboration between governments, affected to address pressing water challenges in South Africa. communities, businesses, and other stakeholders. We are also working directly with farmers to help institute South Africa is a water-stressed country ranked as the better farming practices in South Africa. We have 30th driest in the world, with annual rainfall of about worked with local barley farmers to provide the advice half the global average. Recent droughts have placed and support needed to make a valuable difference to agriculture under even more pressure. Based on water use in their communities. Through guidelines South Africa’s growing population, economic growth for sustainable barley production we developed with projections and current efficiency levels, the country WWF-South Africa, we have helped farmers increase the could have a water deficit of up to 3.8 billion cubic resilience, productivity and economic value of their crop meters by 2030—a 17% gap between water supply and while reducing environmental impact. By using precision demand. The major drought in 2015-2016—the worst irrigation of barley, the amount of water used to grow experienced in 30 years—has placed water firmly on the malting barley was cut in half, from 117mm to 58mm per national agenda. ton in two years, while improving productivity. We look In an effort to tackle this issue, we play a leading role in the forward to taking our learnings from programs like these Strategic Water Partners Network (SWPN), through which to other water-stressed regions in Africa and beyond. Our colleagues engaged with their local communities to bring people together to celebrate World Environment Day, and we look forward to scaling our global programs and working with members of our supply chain to bring this commitment to life over the next several years. 17 2016 Better World Report Stella Artois: Buy A Lady A Drink Countries United States, United Kingdom, Impacted Canada, Belgium and Argentina We are dedicated to enhancing water access and security for people across our markets through watershed protection and water access programs, and by mobilizing a global movement for water access through our brands. One in 10 people live without access to safe water. The crisis disproportionately affects women and children, who collectively spend millions of hours a day gathering water instead of working, attending school or caring for their families. Water has been integral to Stella Artois’ 600-year brewing heritage. The Stella Artois Buy A Lady A Drink initiative was launched in 2015 in five markets— the United States, the United Kingdom, Canada, Belgium and Argentina— in partnership with Water.org, a leading NGO, to challenge consumers to be the generation that ends the global water crisis. To read more about Stella Artois: Buy a Lady a Drink, visit www.stellaartois.com/en_us/buy-a-lady-a-drink.html Water.org commentary on our partnership “Our mission at Water.org is lives of people affected by the global water crisis. to break down the barriers We are proud that to date, 800,000 people have between people and access benefited from this partnership. And we know we can to safe water and sanitation. Water is a fundamental do more. In 2017, we expanded our ambition to provide human need, yet 663 million people in the developing access to safe water to 3.5 million people in the world lack access to safe water. Through more than 25 developing world by 2020, significantly increasing our years of experience, we’ve found that if given a choice impact to date. and an opportunity, families opt to finance long-term Our partnership with Stella Artois will help us galvanize solutions versus struggle day-to-day to find that next liter the conversation beyond the sector to mobilize brands, of water. We connect them to affordable financing so influencers, and consumers across global markets they are empowered to access safe water and sanitation. to get involved. Together, we can challenge business In 2015, we partnered with AB InBev to leverage the leaders, other global companies, and consumers to join power of the Stella Artois brand to help us change the our mission and help end the global water crisis.” 18 Anheuser-Busch InBev Total GJ of Energy (in millions) 2012 58.6 2013 54.3 2014 54.9 2015 56.1 2016 52.6 Reducing our carbon Fuels Mix 2016 Global GHG Emissions footprint 3.4% (in kgCO2e/hl) 6.2% Brewing, packaging, cooling and 2012 9.88 distributing our beers all generate greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. 2013 9.82 We’re reducing these emissions in our 11.0% 2014 8.81 brewing and logistics operations by sourcing more renewable electricity, 6.9% 2015 7.99 improving brewing efficiency, investing 2016 7.54 in green logistics programs, purchasing 72.6% more efficient coolers, and using more recycled packaging. The work we’re Total Direct and InDirect doing now is laying the foundation for GHG Emissions our latest goal to secure 100% of our (million metric tons of CO2e) purchased electricity from renewable ● 72.6% Natural gas sources by 2025, a commitment we’ve 2012 5.32 ● 6.9% Coal made as part of our recent membership ● 11.0% Renewables 2013 5.90 in RE100, a group of businesses ● 6.2% Purchased steam that all have made this pledge. This ● 3.4% Liquid fuels 2014 6.08 commitment will make AB InBev the 2015 5.18 largest corporate direct purchaser of renewable electricity in the consumer business sense; in the same period, 2016 4.68 goods sector globally6 and will reduce we saved just under 60 million USD the company’s operational carbon through energy efficiency improvements. Assured Metric: Our per-hectoliter goals on GHG emissions footprint by 30%. and energy pertain to our beverage facilities only and do not Beginning in 2012 through to the end encompass our vertical operations such as malt plants and packaging facilities. Specific data tables contain other footnotes In our own operations, driving energy of 2016, we have converted 19 plants about environmental performance data. Scope 1 accounts for 64% of our emissions and includes CO2 efficiency is central to our approach. In from coal to natural gas or steam. equivalent (CO2e) from fuel used in our manufacturing processes 2016, we met our 2017 goal to reduce In 2016, GHG emissions per hl of and in cogeneration plants that generate on-site electricity. Scope 2 accounts for about 36% and represents emissions from global energy usage per hectoliter production fell by 6% from the previous purchased electricity. Total GHG emissions data encompass beverage facilities and most of production by 10%. We have also year to 7.54 kgCO2e/hl. Total direct vertical operations, including malt plants and packaging facilities. reduced our total absolute energy and indirect GHG Emissions for the Emissions arising from the combustion of biomass, biogas and landfill gas are not included in our GHG emissions, per the usage by 10% since 2012. This makes year were 4.68 million tons. WBCSD/WRI protocol. Biomass and biogas are considered carbon neutral because the fuel sources served as an atmospheric carbon sink before being burned. Burning landfill gas, or methane, is considered beneficial because its combustion dramatically reduces GHGs emitted when compared to simply allowing it to enter the atmosphere unburned. 2013 reflects the rest year of the inclusion of Grupo Modelo vertical operations. The GHG emissions data represents all beverage operations We have joined RE100, a global within the original scope of our 2017 goal—established in 2012, the baseline year for the per-hectoliter goals. GHG emissions data from previous years are not adjusted in the case of initiative of influential businesses adjustments and acquisitions of beverage facilities, divestments have been removed from the baseline data. that are committed to using Energy data above represents all beverage operations within the original scope of our 2017 goal—established in 2012. The 100% renewable electricity. 2015 data for total energy has been updated due to the addition of various new acquisitions and start-ups. 19 2016 Better World Report Reducing emissions Minimizing our 36% through innovation packaging and waste Around the world we have launched a Packaging is one of the most number of green logistics initiatives to significant components of our beer’s reduce energy usage and emissions in carbon footprint. We are constantly of our beer and soft the supply and logistics process. For looking for ways to increase the drinks was sold example, in Belgium, with our partner recycled material in our packaging, in returnable bottles NinaTrans, we piloted longer trucks, support recovery and re-use of bottles known as ecocombis, which enabled and reduce the amount of material in or kegs in 2016 us to avoid 418 trips over 18 months our packaging through actions such as and reduce related carbon emissions light-weighting our containers. by 21%. In the U.S., we partnered have partnered with local stakeholders Our beers are sold in a variety of with Uber-owned Otto Motors in 2016 to develop recycling solutions in areas recyclable package types, from bulk to deliver Budweiser by a self-driving where returnable bottles are not viable. packaging like beer kegs, which are truck for the first time in Colorado. The In Honduras, our local operation actively typically returnable and reusable, to 120-mile route stretched from the Fort supports the recycling of aluminum cardboard boxes, aluminum cans and Collins brewery to Colorado Springs, and PET on the beautiful Caribbean glass and PET bottles. We have with a professional driver assisting island of Roatan, partnering with local increased the recycled content in our the truck on and off the highway. The communities to improve ecosystems and packaging and continue to make progress concept, while still in the earliest stages, livelihoods while also contributing to social in protecting the use of returnable offers exciting possibilities for the future development and the creation of local packaging. Through light-weighting in areas like road safety, fuel efficiency enterprises. In Zambia, through our Manja and packaging reduction initiatives we and faster delivery times. Overall, we Pamodzi (Hands Together) program with have reduced the amount of packaging have driven major improvements across the Lusaka City Council, we have piloted we use by 126,800 tons since 2012, our entire logistics footprint resulting in a supporting small-scale waste collectors to exceeding our 2017 reduction goal of 12% reduction in emissions since 2013. gather cartons and plastic bottles and we 100,000 tons a year early. are looking to scale this initiative. Another contributor to our carbon There are many examples from across footprint is refrigeration. To that end, Beyond our packaging, we seek to minimize the business where we have worked we set a goal of reaching a 70% the amount of waste we send to landfill to reduce the weight of packaging. global average of eco-friendly cooler from our breweries through recycling In Brazil in 2016, our business reduced purchases annually by 2017. We initiatives, including using waste as fuel in the weight of our 275ml Stella Artois reached that goal in 2015, and this year, our operations. In 2016, we decreased the bottles by 7% from 200g to 187g, which 96% of our cooler purchases met the amount of waste sent to landfill by 26% will produce an annual saving of over standards we set for environmentally compared to 2015 and decreased our total 4,400 tons. In Australia, we worked with friendly coolers, which include having waste by 2% over the same period. In glass suppliers to remove 14,000 tons at least two of the following features: 2016, we also recycled 99.2% of brewery of glass from packaging since 2013. long-lasting, energy-efficient LED waste, compared with 99.01% in 2015. lighting; energy-saving controllers; Post-consumer packaging waste is or an eco-friendly refrigerant gas that another big challenge and, increasingly, For more stories around has much lower GHG impacts than visible problem in several of our markets. how we’re driving progress conventional alternatives. In some markets, our businesses for a Cleaner World, visit www.ab-inbev.com/ cleanerworld 6 Based on a comparison of current public commitments of major consumer goods companies to directly source electricity from renewable sources through direct purchasing. Excludes electricity purchased through green tariffs, contracts with grid suppliers and Self-driving truck pilot certificate purchases. Electricity consumption of companies taken from publicly available data. 20 Anheuser-Busch InBev Healthier World We aspire for a healthier world where every experience with beer is a positive one. We are passionate about brewing great beers for our consumers to enjoy, but know that not all the drinking choices of our consumers are the right ones all the time. The harmful use of alcohol remains an issue of significant concern to governments, society and to us. To address this global issue, the World Health Organization (WHO) has set a target to reduce the harmful use of alcohol by 10% by 2025. This is also an area of focus within the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). We know that in order to ensure a long-term and sustainable reduction of harmful drinking, consumer behaviors need to shift. We are driving meaningful impact through our Global Smart Drinking Goals (GSDGs), launched in 2015. These goals encapsulate our efforts to make a deeper investment in programs that measurably shift social norms and behaviors around harmful alcohol use. We are also helping to empower consumers to make smart drinking choices by ensuring they have access to Noand Lower-Alcohol options and robust health information about the products they are consuming. Our programs and initiatives in these areas have been developed in partnership with public health experts to ensure we’re following highest level of technical and scientific evidence approach. We established an independent Technical Advisory Group (TAG) to ensure the programs and initiatives launched in support of our goals reflect current evidence-based research, correspond to the state of relevant science and are credible and well-executed. 21 2016 Better World Report In 2016, we also established the AB health issue, and as a brewer we have InBev Foundation with a commitment the opportunity—and a responsibility— of a 150 million USD investment over to contribute to reducing its harmful Global City Pilots ten years to help address harmful use. This is why we established the alcohol use and spread ideas for Foundation with a Board of Directors Countries Belgium, Mexico, Bolivia, Covered China, Brazil and United States advancing broader health and social and a majority of independent members, issues, globally, by 2026. We believe who work with our TAG to help advance the harmful use of alcohol is a global AB InBev’s role as a responsible brewer. Our first Global Smart Drinking Goal is to reduce the harmful use of alcohol by To learn more about our GSDGs and TAG, visit www.ab-inbev.com/ 10% in six pilot cities. We have worked healthierworld with experts to examine a combination of factors to determine where we could best make an impact. These include locations where we have a strong H. Westley Clark, MD, JD, MPH commentary on our presence, evidence suggests progress Technical Advisory Group (TAG) to address harmful alcohol use in the city is lagging, there is local political will “AB InBev’s Global Smart Drinking Goals initiative is enhanced by the to implement the necessary programs involvement of an independent Technical Advisory Group (TAG). The and there are local organizations with TAG aims to foster evidence-based programming, well-designed program relevant technical expertise. These implementation and strong measurement and evaluation of the Global criteria led us to select: Leuven, Smart Drinking Goals. By including in the TAG a spectrum of experts Belgium; Santa Cruz, Bolivia; Brasília, from across alcohol research, alcohol treatment, health communication, Brazil; Jiangshan, China; Zacatecas, and measurement and evaluation, the TAG offers both academic Mexico, and Columbus, Ohio, USA. and practical opinions to the larger effort of the Global Smart Drinking Goals. By operating outside of the business interests of AB InBev, the In an effort to ensure we are able to TAG can recommend practical strategies which hold the most promise for effectively measure our progress community-based efforts linked to the Global Smart Drinking Goals.” and report on our impact, in 2016 we began independent baseline studies for each of the cities, where we measured current alcohol use and attitudes towards drinking. Together with the How are we going to do it? studies, we have brought together research universities, hospitals, public Changing Behaviors Through Social Norms health officials and city governments in public-private partnerships that will Multi-Year Pilots Social Norms help find, test and measure policy Influence social Reduce the harmful norms and individual interventions to reduce the harmful behaviors to reduce use of alcohol by at consumption of alcohol. -10% least 10% in nine cities harmful alcohol use by by the end of 2020. investing at least 1 billion Building on the experience of our $1B USD across our markets Implement the best in dedicated social practices globally by marketing campaigns Zacatecas, Mexico pilot city launch in the end of 2025. and related programs by 2015, we kicked off our public private the end of 2025. partnership in four additional cities in 2016: Jiangshan, Columbus, Brasília Empowering Consumers Through Choice and Leuven. In Columbus, we are Product Portfolio Alcohol Health Literacy working with Ohio State University, Columbus Public Health and neighbor­ Ensure No-or LowerPlace a Guidance Label hood groups. The first phase of the Alcohol beer products on all of our beer products represent at least in all of our markets by the work has been to launch a survey to end of 2020. 20% of AB InBev’s examine local drinking habits. global beer volume by Increase alcohol health the end of 2025. literacy by the end of 2025. 22 Anheuser-Busch InBev in the toolkit is based on cutting-edge research and approaches to alcohol harm reduction from leading universities and thought leaders. There are many examples from around the world where we are making progress on this goal. For example, in India, we used social media to spotlight road safety through our Respect the Road campaign, partnering with a We partnered with the government Building on the learnings identified local theatre group to run street plays of Brasília in Brazil to launch Brasília in the pilot cities, we will identify to raise awareness of the dangers of Vida Segura or “Brasília Safe Life.” The best practices and develop targeted drunk driving. In Brazil, since 2010, we program, which focuses on road safety implementation plans to roll out across have partnered with local NGOs on a as well as improving citizens’ quality all of our markets by 2025. responsible drinking program aimed at of life and health, kicked off with a adolescents in low income communities. meeting in September that brought To date, around 20,000 teenagers have together more than 300 stakeholders. Influencing social participated in workshops and training In partnership with the City of Leuven, norms and behavior and close to eight million have engaged the program’s online communications the University of Leuven and the Over the course of the next few years, channels. academic hospital UZ Leuven, we we have committed to investing launched our program to reduce drunk at least 1 billion USD across our We are also going beyond the harmful driving, underage and binge drinking. markets to dedicated social marketing effects of drunk driving, by focusing As part of our launch, we engaged a campaigns and programs to influence broadly on creating safer roads for all local celebrity to showcase “Safety Spin”, social norms and behaviors around people, from our colleagues to our a machine that simulated the alcohol consumption. We are currently customers. That is why we are investing experience of driving drunk by spinning developing a Global Social Norms in coalitions such as Together for Safer the user in an effort to make them dizzy. toolkit with the input of experts in social Roads and scaling successful pilots like The simulation machine was placed norms and marketing that will provide our Por un Buen Camino road safety in a busy parking garage, where it guidelines to support the design, program to help change driver behaviors proved to many that while they felt they deployment and internal assessment by instilling powerful best practices might be able to drive after drinking, and monitoring of our smart drinking delivered through channels that have they were unable to do so safely. campaigns and programs around proven to be effective in reducing road the world. All the information contained accidents and fatalities. Por un Buen Camino (On the Right Path) The Por un Buen Camino (On the Right Path) program, launched in 2015, is now operating in seven of our Latin American companies. Pioneered in Panama, the campaign developed road safety solutions to protect road users, while sharing best practice and lessons learned among governments, the private sector and other stakeholders. Through a mixture of social and traditional media, as well as messages on vehicle fleets, the program deals with topics such as texting while driving, speeding, road infrastructure, vehicle safety and drunk driving. In Panama, the program is believed to have reduced traffic collision injuries by 15% over a four-year period, and the success of the model is being scaled to several other markets in which we operate. 23 2016 Better World Report Budweiser Give a Damn and Lyft Partnership Budweiser sparked conversations during the weekend of the 2016 Super Bowl—one of the biggest drinking occasions of the year— by releasing Simply Put, a candid responsible drinking spot starring British actress Helen Mirren. It was Anheuser-Busch’s first Super Bowl commercial focused on preventing drunk driving since 2005 and was supported through a branded website that helped viewers find convenient, safe rides home, from ride-sharing services to taxis. The spot and accompanying campaign generated more than one billion media impressions with over 90% positive consumer sentiment. Continuing the momentum of Simply Put, Budweiser launched Give A Damn, a partnership with ride-sharing app Lyft to distribute up to 6,000 safe rides in the United States each weekend from September to December 2016. The goal was to encourage a simple behavior change among consumers and create a habit of using safe rides to get home as an alternative to drunk driving. We piloted the program in New York, Illinois, Florida and Colorado, later adding Washington, D.C., Pennsylvania and Massachusetts. One day a week, consumers could receive a code from Budweiser’s Facebook page to redeem for a 10 USD Lyft coupon. The coupon could be used between 11 p.m. and 2 a.m. each night that weekend, the time period when drunk driving is most prevalent. The response was overwhelming, especially during holidays like Halloween, Thanksgiving and New Year’s Eve. The program’s average redemption rate of 33%, bettered the 10% redemption rate for similar programs in the industry. Budweiser distributed more than 35,000 safe rides across those states in less than four months, and our hope is to scale the program in the coming year, expanding to even more locations to give drinkers more options to get home safely. Perhaps most notably, 49% of Millennials (ages 21–34) nationwide reported being aware about the Budweiser-Lyft partnership. 24 Anheuser-Busch InBev Together for Safer Roads Countries Covered Brazil and China In 2014, we collaborated with leading global companies to create a coalition dedicated to improving road safety and reducing deaths and injuries from traffic collisions. We called it Together for Safer Roads (TSR). The private sector coalition has four key focus areas: safer companies and fleets; local demonstration projects; data collection and management; and advocacy and thought leadership. For World Day for Safety and Health at Work in April 2016, we devoted an entire week to increasing awareness around safe driving practices at work. The TSR initiative promoted the “Advancing Road Safety Best Practices for Companies and Their Fleets” report, outlining practices that companies can use to keep employees, partners and contractors safe on the world’s roads. In São Paulo, we launched Vida dȇ Preferȇncia: Movimento Paulista de Segurança no Trânsito, a partnership between the State of São Paulo and the non-governmental organization, Centro de Lideranca Publica, to help save 22,000 lives in São Paulo State— reducing the state’s crash fatalities by half by 2020. Groundbreaking work to increase data collection on traffic deaths, as well as key education programs around road safety, contributed to an 11% reduction in traffic accident deaths in the 15 prioritized cities in 2016 as compared to 2015. In Shanghai, we partnered with Tongji University to complete relevant demonstration projects and make a real impact on traffic safety improvement. An action plan was defined to reduce accidents in seven hotspot roadway segments in 2017. 25 2016 Better World Report Expanding our product portfolio More consumers are looking for alternatives to traditional beer that are light, refreshing and in-sync with their active lifestyles. An ideal choice for occasions like a work lunch, a casual afternoon with friends and those of Brahma 0.0% Budweiser Prohibition Corona Cero people with active lifestyles, we believe the market for Noand Lower-Alcohol beers is likely to grow significantly in evidence-based practices and state about alcohol and the skills necessary the next decade. of the art science for effective consumer to enjoy responsibly. The training will guidance labeling. The guidance label be rolled out across all of our markets Reducing the alcohol content in will be implemented in markets that by March 2017 and, by next year, beverages has been advocated by does not have government-mandated will include external partners, as well leading researchers as one of the labeling in place and where it is as consumers, in our pilot cities. viable mechanisms through which to permissible by local regulation. reduce harmful alcohol use.7 Our goal is to have Noand Lower-Alcohol To complement our labeling efforts, beers represent 20% of our global our goal is to, significantly, increase 7 Rehm, J, Lachenmeier, Dirk, Llopis; Eva Jane; beer volumes be 2025. We define alcohol literacy by 2025. In September Imtiaz, Sameer; Anderson, Peter. Evidence No-Alcohol products as having an 2016, we launched an internal Alcohol of reducing ethanol content in beverages to reduce harmful use of alcohol. The Lancet alcohol by volume (ABV) of 0.0%–0.5% Literacy Training program to equip GH; September 2016: Vol 1: page 78–83. and Lower-Alcohol products as having our colleagues with the basic knowledge 8 Nielsen. an ABV between 0.51% and 3.5%. We have continued to expand our global portfolio of non-alcoholic beverages, which currently houses over 15 brands. Most notably, Brahma 0.0%, the number one non-alcoholic beer in Brazil, reached over 70% market share in the non-alcohol beer category in 2016.8 Budweiser and Corona have followed, both launching non-alcohol variants in 2016: Budweiser Prohibition and Corona Cero. Hoegaarden continues to expand its Radler varieties with the launch of a 0.0% variant also in 2016. Other No-alcohol beers in our global portfolio include Aguila Cero, Jupiler 0.0% and Beck’s Blue. Increasing alcohol literacy We are currently working with Tufts University’s Public Health group to prototype a Global Guidance Label, which we plan to place on all our beer products by the end of 2020. This label will include information about avoiding harmful drinking and will reflect current 26 Anheuser-Busch InBev Our People Dream-People-Culture Our people are what matters most. They are the ones committed to achieving our dream of a Better World. We recruit, develop and retain colleagues we believe can make us better, seeking out those with strong leadership potential and a disruptive mindset. They work with us as we innovate and build a company to last. We believe our team gets much of its strength from our culture. We work with an ownership mindset, setting achievable targets and aligning incentives to help everyone focus. We share a strong sense of personal responsibility and a dedication to putting consumers’ interests first, creating shareholder value and delivering on our Dream. We promote initiative—from individuals and teams— and recognize and advance leaders at a fast pace. These leaders set the tone for our company. We expect them to deliver results and to inspire our colleagues through a spirit of passion, sense of urgency and accountability. And, most importantly, we never take shortcuts. Integrity, hard work, quality and responsibility are essential to our growth. To read more about how we find and develop talent, instill a culture of learning and increase diversity in our workforce, visit www.ab-inbev.com/people 27 2016 Better World Report Creating a safe place consumption to proper operation of our trucks and forklifts in our facilities. We 94% to work use technology systems on our trucks Ensuring the health and safety of our to track driver behaviors, which has employees and consumers is critical increased accountability among our to our business operations. We amplify managers and resulted in a reduction Response rate to awareness of safe behaviors every year of speeding and safer fleet operations. employee opinion survey through World Safety Day by sharing We also continue to look for ways to in December 2016, what safety means to us with our ease the stress on our drivers, who up from 92% in 2015 colleagues and communities. These take our off-road routes by replacing behaviors range from responsible the hazardous routes with cars. Lost Time Injuries (LTI) Supply Employees (own) Second Tier/Sales Employees 2013* 291 1,728 2014** 151 898 2015 126 568 2016*** 96 302 86% Employee engagement Contractors (all) 358 211 147 122 index (end of 2015) Total Recordable Injuries 90% Supply employees (own) 1,189 644 544 378 Second Tier/Sales Employees – – 1,948 1,293 Fatalities**** of employees believe our company acts Supply Employees (own) 4 0 0 1 in a socially responsible Second Tier/Sales Employees (own) 4 4 4 7 way (end of 2015) Contractors (all) 11 12 8 4 4.1 million Days Lost Due to Injury (supply own) Supply Employees (own) 11,561 9,229 6,180 4,711 total training hours, Global Severity Rate an average of 30.2 hours per full time employee Supply Employees (own) 73 64 43 37 Key Assured Metric Lost Time Injuries (LTI) Supply Employees *AB InBev took management control of Grupo Modelo following the combination on June 4, Women represent 18% Occupational injury Brewery and 2013. 2013 data includes Mexico in order to allow for comparison and show progress since the of our global workforce resulting in more than one manufacturing facility combination. day absence from work. employees, including (based on blue and **2014 data does not include Oriental Breweries, first-tier logistics. South Korea, or additional Asia-Pacific Zone breweries white collar employees) Total Recordable acquired during the course of the year, as we did not Injuries LTI + modified Second Tier/Sales have operational control for the entire year. duty injuries + medical Employees ***2016 data only cover sites for which AB InBev treatment injuries. Second-tier logistics, has full management control since 01 Jan 2016. Global Severity Rate sales, Zone and global **** On 23 June 2016 a worker died inside the Nanchang plant, China, due to a heat stroke. The 30% of leaders in corporate employees. Lost days per 1,000,000 investigation could not determine if this case was our business are women work related or not. Heat strokes which are not hours worked. Lost days clearly work related are not considered to be in (based on white collar only include the days that scope for this report. However, we have decided are effectively lost in the to consider all heat stroke cases inside the plants employees) as work related as of 2017, unless there is clear year due to LTI in this year. evidence that the case is not work related. 28 Anheuser-Busch InBev In 2016, we were proud to made good progress against a number of our key safety metrics. For example, the total Donated 2.3 million number of Lost Time Injuries decreased by 38% in the last year. We also achieved a milestone of zero fatalities in our Tier 2 Trucking operations in 2016. cans or bottles However, we regret to report that 12 of drinking water in employees and contractors lost their lives at work this year. Three of these areas of need fatalities resulted from accidents during on-site maintenance or repairs, five from road traffic accidents, and four were the result of robberies or assaults on employees during sales or trade visits. In each case, we undertook an in-depth investigation and implemented measures to reduce the likelihood of these incidents recurring. Road traffic accidents accounted for a significant proportion of fatalities and road safety remains a top priority. In Brazil, we have invested in proprietary technology to help ensure the safety of employees, who comprise the drivers of one of the country’s largest fleets. Our Tech Safety software monitors vehicles and drivers, tracking speed and driving patterns. In the last three years, the program has reduced the number of traffic accidents involving our logistics and sales teams by 72%. In 2017, we will continue working to Voluntarios Modelo instill a culture of safety across our In 2015, our Mexico team spearheaded the Voluntarios Modelo effort to business. This will include standardizing help employees and community members better connect to causes and safety equipment for motorcycles and find projects they are passionate about through developing a user-friendly, scooters, focusing on preventing violent accessible online volunteer portal. The introduction of the portal also situations which put our employees at strengthened our relationship with organizations who work on those causes. risk and expanding our use of telemetry Because the system can be updated in real-time, employees always know instruments in all company vehicles, not which volunteer opportunities are available. just trucks. In 2016, we took Voluntarios Modelo to new heights with a flagship road safety campaign, Cuida Tu Vida Y La De Los Demas—“Care for Your Life and the Lives of Others.” We activated 50 business units, 78 universities, 130 allied companies and 55,000 volunteers to promote safe driving. A component of the campaign, Juntos Por La Seguridad Vial, alongside our flagship creative idea behind the road safety campaign, #seguridadvial, had activations which reached over one million people, championing safe driving in their communities. 29 2016 Better World Report Employee volunteering 97,030 Our colleagues’ passions come to life through their volunteer work. As a employees company, we are committed to helping volunteered our diverse workforce raise the bar 452,660 total hours in their communities by providing a volunteer structure that empowers them to undertake community projects of their time aligned to their personal passions. Throughout 2016, 97,030 employees volunteered 452,660 total hours of their time to make a difference in the communities where we live and work. Our colleagues also helped us donate over 2.3 million cans or bottles of drinking water in areas of need. At AB InBev, we are committed to helping our diverse workforce raise the bar in their communities by encouraging service to others. Zika—I Won’t Stay Still In 2016, our colleagues in Brazil were shaken by the spread of the Zika virus, the public health crisis that made headlines around the world. In an unprecedented effort that mobilized our entire operation in the country, we leveraged our employees and partnership network in a campaign to educate Brazilians about the aedes aegypti mosquito, known for spreading diseases like yellow fever, dengue fever, chikungunya, and the Zika virus. Around 32,000 employees used an exclusive application, developed specifically for the initiative, to map out their efforts and distribute lifesaving preventive tips. They went door-to-door, delivering messages on disease prevention and on ways to help stop the spread of the disease. The campaign—Nao Fico Parado (“I Won’t Stand Still”)—encouraged the elimination of still water, which is known to be the most effective way to stop mosquito breeding. We estimate around 900,000 households were directly impacted by the campaign. 30 Anheuser-Busch InBev Integrating Sustainability At AB InBev, we are committed Governance and Learning from others to using our global resource— reporting and our ability to bring We know we do not have all the Accountability for our sustainable answers, which is why we constantly people together—to make development performance is monitored seek feedback on our approach. a better world. closely at the global and Zone level. Our water initiatives are guided by At all levels, Better World performance a Technical Advisory Committee made To help achieve this, we are working often forms part of our senior up of experts on watersheds, water across our business, from procurement managers’ performance objectives systems and sustainable agriculture. to sales, to ensure that sustainability and remuneration. This group supports our strategy is integrated into our business strategy. development and execution and Within our breweries, at the heart of As the leading beer company in the provides feedback on the economic, our efforts to create a better world is world, our portfolio consists of over environmental and social impacts of our our global management system, known 500 beer brands that span local and initiatives. In 2016, the group reviewed as Voyager Plant Optimization (VPO). international markets. This reach our water risk methodology and This system is used to manage every enables us to build strong connections approach to partnerships with a view aspect of our brewery operations, with diverse consumers around the to strengthen our programs in 2017. including environmental performance. world and join together with communities It is the centralized framework we Similarly, we have set up an independent to be the agents of change for use to benchmark our water and Technical Advisory Group (TAG), environmental and social stewardship. energy use, quantify performance established to ensure that the programs As this report demonstrates, we are gaps, identify and disseminate best and initiatives launched in support of working to bring our Better World practices in order to better monitor our our Global Smart Drinking Goals reflect commitments to life through our brands. continuous improvement efforts. current evidence-based research, In 2017, we plan to build on this correspond to the state of relevant foundation with additional activations, This past year, building on the success science, are credible and well-executed using both global and local brands. on VPO, we launched our Better World and are conducted, independently, from Insights (BWI) tool to gather data our business interests. across other areas of Better World, such as our Global Smart Drinking Goals The TAG is made up of eminent and community support. The BWI tool experts in alcohol science, health will help us to better benchmark communication, measurement and performance across our business and evaluation and related areas, who share best practices. For 2017, we plan will advise us and oversee the to strengthen our reporting processes implementation, measurement and and roll-out BWI to new markets in evaluation of our goals. Latin America and Africa. 31 2016 Better World Report Report Scope This report, in conjunction The company has established a This report contains “forward-looking with content on our Data Management Plan to ensure statements”, which generally include corporate website, presents accurate and consistent reporting the words or phrases “will likely result”, Anheuser-Busch InBev’s of smart drinking, environment goal “are expected to”, “will continue”, “is annual update on key performance data and key performance anticipated”, “anticipate”, “estimate”, performance data and indicators. We have noted which “project”, “may”, “might”, “could”, environmental and social metrics have “believe”, “expect”, “plan”, “potential” information for calendar year been externally assured by KPMG in or similar expressions. These 2016 and provides data on the Independent Assurance Report statements are subject to certain risks specific targets in our Better here, in key locations throughout the and uncertainties. Actual results may World strategy. report and in our online GRI Index differ materially from those suggested referenced above. For information by these statements due to, among This report is intended to provide included in our consolidated financial others, the impact of water availability, meaningful updates to stakeholders statements, AB InBev’s statutory climate change, economic recession, around the world, including investors, auditor is Deloitte (see pages 57–58 of negative publicity, our ability to hire employees, governments, NGOs the AB InBev 2016 Annual Report). and retain the best talent, government and customers and consumers in the regulations, the reputation of our Our report structure parallels our countries where we operate. brands, the ability to make acquisitions Better World focus areas—Growing or divest divisions, access to capital, AB InBev prepared this reporting World, Cleaner World and Healthier volatility in the stock market, exposure (encompassing the PDF report and the World. Information presented in to litigation and other associated risks, website) in accordance with the Global our report encompasses AB InBev’s as well as the risks described in our Reporting Initiative’s (GRI) G4 “Core” company-wide wholly-owned most recent Annual Report on Form level. To help determine the content for operations represented in global goal 20-F filed with the U.S. Securities and our reporting, we worked with Business performance for water and energy use, Exchange Commission. Additional for Social Responsibility (BSR) in 2014 unless otherwise noted. Some newer information about AB InBev’s GHG to conduct a materiality assessment beverage facilities (including SABMiller and water risks, management and that helped identify the issues most legacy businesses) that were acquired performance is available through CDP. important to our stakeholders and during in 2016 are not yet included. our company. A more detailed look at These facilities will be included in For questions regarding the content our materiality process, including the future reporting, which typically takes of this report, please contact us at resulting Boundary Analysis Table, is six months to a year after acquisition. betterworld@ab-inbev.com. available here and a GRI Index for this However, information from SABMiller year’s report can be found here. Since legacy businesses is included in scope our combination with SABMiller, we in the report’s narrative. have begun investigating any potential Our per-hectoliter goals on GHG changes to the issues most material emissions, energy and water pertain to our business and stakeholders; we to our beverage facilities only and do intend to update our assessment in 2017. not encompass our vertical operations The data and stories presented such as malt plants and packaging were gathered and verified with the facilities. Specific data tables contain assistance of content owners across other footnotes about environmental all functions and geographic Zones. performance data. The GHG emissions data represents all beverage operations within the original scope of our 2017 goal—established in 2012, the baseline year for the per-hectoliter goals. GHG emissions data from previous years are not adjusted in the case of adjustments and acquisitions of beverage facilities, divestments have been removed from the baseline data. 32 Anheuser-Busch InBev Independent Assurance Report To the readers of the AB InBev 2016 Based on our review, nothing has come The Executive Board is also responsible Better World Report: to our attention to indicate that The for such internal control as it determines Selected Information is not presented, is necessary to enable the preparation Our conclusion in all material respects, in accordance of The Selected Information that is free with the internally developed criteria as from material misstatement, whether We have reviewed the following described in the section ‘Report Scope’ due to fraud or error. information within the 2016 Better (page 31). World Report (hereafter ‘The Selected Our responsibilities for Information’) of Anheuser-Busch We do not provide any assurance on the review of The Selected InBev S.A./N.V. (hereafter ‘AB InBev’) the achievability of the objectives, Information based in Leuven, Belgium: targets and expectations of AB InBev. Our responsibility is to plan and perform → Reduce water risks and improve Basis for our conclusion the review assignment in a manner water management in 100% of that allows us to obtain sufficient and key barley-growing regions, in We have performed our review on The appropriate assurance evidence for our partnership with local stakeholders Selected Information in accordance with conclusion. (page 7) Dutch law, including Dutch Standard 3000: “Assurance Engagements other A review is aimed to obtain a limited → Engage in watershed protection than Audits or Reviews of Historical level of assurance. Procedures measures at 100% of facilities Financial Information”. performed to obtain a limited level of located in key areas in Argentina, assurance are aimed at determining the Bolivia, Brazil, China, Mexico, Peru This review engagement is aimed plausibility of information and are less and the United States, in partnership to obtain limited assurance. Our extensive than a reasonable assurance with local stakeholders (page 7) responsibilities under this standard are engagement. The level of assurance further described in the section → Water Use by hectoliter of obtained in review engagements is ‘Our responsibilities for the review of production and total Water Use therefore substantially less than the The Selected Information’ below. (page 7 and 15) level of assurance obtained in an audit We are independent of Anheuser-Busch engagement. → Total GJ of Energy, Energy usage per InBev S.A./N.V. in accordance with the hectoliter of production, Total Direct We apply the ‘Nadere voorschriften ‘Verordening inzake de onafhankelijkheid and Indirect GHG Emissions and accountantskantoren ter zake van accountants bij assuranceglobal GHG Emissions per hectoliter van assurance opdrachten (RA)’ opdrachten’ (ViO, Code of Ethics for of production (page 7 and 18) (Regulations for Audit Firms Regarding Professional Accountants, a regulation Assurance Engagements) and → Reduction in packaging materials with respect to independence) and accordingly maintain a comprehensive (page 7) other relevant independence regulations system of quality control including in the Netherlands. Furthermore, we → Percentage of eco-friendly cooler documented policies and procedures have complied with the ‘Verordening purchases (page 7) regarding compliance with ethical gedragsen beroepsregels accountants’ requirements, professional standards → Lost-time Injuries (LTI)—Supply (VGBA, Dutch Code of Ethics). and applicable legal and regulatory Employees (own), Second Tier and We believe that the assurance evidence requirements. Sales Employees (page 27) we have obtained is sufficient and Misstatements can arise from fraud → Total Recordable Injuries (TRI)— appropriate to provide a basis for our or errors and are considered material Supply Employees (own) (page 27) conclusion. if, individually or in the aggregate, → Days Lost due to injury—Supply they could reasonably be expected Responsibilities of the Employees (own) (page 27) to influence the decisions of users Executive Board for taken on the basis of The Selected → Fatalities (page 27) The Selected Information Information. The materiality affects the The information reviewed as part of The Executive Board of AB InBev is nature, timing and extent of our review our assurance engagement has been responsible for the preparation of The procedures and evaluation of the indicated throughout the Better World Selected Information in accordance effect of identified misstatements on Report with the symbol ‘ ’. with the internally developed criteria as our conclusion. described in the section ‘Report Scope’ (page 31). We have exercised professional Thank you for reading our report— judgment and have maintained now we want to hear from you. professional skepticism throughout the Please take a moment to tell us what review, in accordance with the Dutch you think of this report by contacting Standard 3000, ethical requirements us at betterworld@ab-inbev.com. and independence requirements. Our main procedures consisted of: We refer all readers of the AB InBev Better World Report to all of AB InBev’s public filings → Evaluating the appropriateness (including, but not limited to, its Annual Report, of the reporting criteria and its its annual report on Form 20-F filed with the consistent application, including the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, the evaluation of the reasonableness Risk Factors included therein, its current reports of management’s estimates; filed on Form 6-K with the SEC and its press → Evaluating the design and releases). Before making any investment or implementation of the reporting other decision relating to the Company based on systems and processes related to this Better World Report, all such public filings The Selected Information; should be considered in detail. → Interviewing relevant staff responsible for providing the underlying data for The Selected Information, carrying out internal control procedures on the data and consolidating the data in the 2016 Better World Report; → Visits to seven production sites in Argentina, Brazil, Belgium, China, Mexico and the United States of America (two sites) to review the source data and the design and implementation of internal controls and validation procedures at local level; → An analytical review of data and trends submitted for consolidation at corporate level; → Reviewing relevant data and evaluating internal and external documentation, based on limited sampling, to assess the accuracy of The Selected Information. Amsterdam, 26 April 2017 KPMG Sustainability, Part of KPMG Advisory N.V. M.A.S. Boekhold-Miltenburg RA Director ab-inbev.com
