Creating digital communities Millicom Annual Report 2016 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Creating digital communities We are a leading telecommunication and media company focused on emerging markets. We operate in 13 countries across Latin America and Africa. A young population and a growing middle class provide huge opportunities for us to deliver The Digital LifestyleTM. We are building world-class mobile, mobile data and cable technology for our customers. We build responsibly and profitably for investors and we are creating the digital innovation to support the communities where we operate. Integrated reporting This year we are publishing our first integrated Annual Report that brings together our corporate responsibility and annual reports. It is a natural evolution for us that reflects both the strong social and economic impact of our products and services on our markets and how we continue to embed responsible business practice within our business processes. Our reporting is also in line with our commitment to transparency and is a key element of building trust with our shareholders and wider stakeholders. Overview Strategy Performance page 1 page 13 page 25 2 Millicom at a glance 14 Chief Executive Officer’s review 26 Chief Financial Officer’s review 4 Market overview 18 Executing our strategy 31 Risk management 9 Chairman’s statement 24 Measuring progress 45 Latin America performance review against strategy 11 Our business model 55 Africa performance review 12 How we manage our 60 Corporate responsibility corporate responsibility performance review Governance Financials 89  Chairman’s Report 129 Independent auditor’s report 90  Directors’ Financial 130 Introduction and Operating Report 135 Consolidated statement of income 92  Shareholder and 136 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income Board governance 137 Consolidated statement of financial position 123 Management governance 139 Consolidated statement of cash flows 127 Management responsibility statement 140 Consolidated statement of changes in equity 141 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Millicom Annual Report 2016 1 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Millicom at a glance We provide fixed and mobile communications services, cable and satellite TV, Mobile Financial Services (MFS) and local content, such as music and sports, to more than 57 million customers via our main consumer brand TIGO®. At TIGO BUSINESS™, we deliver digital solutions for governments, multinationals, large corporations and small and medium sized businesses. Our mission is to lead the adoption of The Digital Lifestyle™ in our markets and, by doing this, we will empower customers, employees, partners, communities and societies to advance in life and find joy. Countries Corporate Offices Mobile Mobile data Voice Revenue split by region: 86% Latin America SMS Mobile Financial Services 14% Africa What we do in Latin America Home Bolivia, El Salvador, Mobile, B2B, Guatemala, Honduras, Home, MFS PayTV Paraguay Broadband internet Direct-To-Home (DTH) TV Colombia Mobile, B2B, Home Business Costa Rica Home, B2B Nicaragua B2B (B2B) Fixed & mobile solutions What we do in Africa Data centers Cloud services Chad, Ghana, Rwanda, Mobile, B2B, M2M Senegal, Tanzania MFS Other services Millicom Annual Report 2016 2 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Millicom at a glance – continued Our year in numbers1 The following dashboards highlight the year’s key figures across financial, operational and corporate responsibility. Revenue US$m Adjusted EBITDA margin2 US$m Revenue US$m -0.4% 35.6% LatAm 5,352 Africa 896 organic growth2 2016 US$6,249m 2015 US$6,572m 2016 US$2,225m Home as a % of LatAm revenue Mobile data users3 18.7% 2016 US$1,002m all technologies 2015 US$983m 36.0% 2016 21.0m penetration rate 2015 18.0m LatAm business unit revenue split % OCF growth (EBITDA – Capex)2 US$m ROIC2 % excluding corporate 22.7% 16.0% Mobile 61 Cable 29 MFS 1 Other 9 2016 US$1,141m 2015 US$930m 2016 16.0% 2015 15.5% Employees4 Women in senior management Africa business unit revenue split 17,985 29% % Read more on Read more on Mobile 83 our people diversity Cable 2 MFS 11 see pages 21-22 see pages 74-75 Other 4 Senior managers recruited locally Employees who have acknowledged the Code of Conduct 86% Read more on our people see pages 21-22 81% Read more on compliance see pages 67-69 Employees by region LatAm415,964 Absolute reduction in carbon emissions Strategic suppliers who signed the Africa 1,674 Supplier Code of Conduct Corporate 8% 79% offices 347 Read more on Read more on reducing our responsible environmental supply chain footprint management see pages 70-73 see pages 78-79 Footnotes: 1 Guatemala and Honduras businesses fully consolidated. See ‘Additional information’ on pages 197 to 200 for reconciliation with IFRS numbers. The comparative 2015 financial information has been re-presented as a result of the classification of our operations in DRC as discontinued operations (in accordance with IFRS 5). 2 Alternative performance measures used in this Annual report are non-GAAP measures that are presented to provide readers with additional financial information that is regularly reviewed by management and used to make decisions about operating matters. It should not be viewed in isolation or as an alternative to the equivalent GAAP measure. See “Additional information” on pages 197 to 200 for definitions and reconciliations to the closest respective equivalent IFRS measures. 3 Penetration rate calculated as Mobile Data subscribers divided by Total Mobile Subscribers 4 Including Tigo Nicaragua. Emtelco headcount are excluded from this report and any internal reporting because their costs are classified as direct costs and not employee related costs. Millicom Annual Report 2016 3 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Market overview Underpinning our strategy is the knowledge that we operate in a fastmoving, continuously changing industry. Millicom plays a leading role in connecting We are dedicated to emerging markets and committed people who previously have had no access to to building on our success in bringing The Digital Lifestyle™ the internet, either fixed or mobile. We are enabling them to move swiftly from mainly to our customers in these markets. We see exciting voice-call and text messaging based services opportunities to continue growing together with the towards new communications primarily based on data, so they can use the internet economies and markets that we operate in. and access social media while on the move, download and upload photos and videos from their mobile devices, download and play games, and utilize the enormous range of specialist consumer and business applications that can now be accessed at any time and from anywhere. In the residential market, the range of fixed-line services that customers demand is expanding rapidly beyond telephony and the traditional linear TV viewing model, into a world of high-speed broadband, with all of the two-way capabilities and vast array of information and services on offer. Millicom Annual Report 2016 4 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Market overview – continued For businesses, both large and small, Moving data customers up to 4G commercial success increasingly depends on Increasing value being connected – offering online distribution and sales channels, enabling web-based customer communications and service, and operating business-critical functions in the cloud. 4G LTE subscribers New research by Oxford Economics forecasts 45% Faster and better that the middle class in our markets will grow Customers with high demand for data, by around 5% per annum over the next ten leading to high level of consumptions years. This will drive a major increase in with enhanced customer experience 2016 coverage demand for digital products and services. at cheaper production cost 32% – 2015 coverage For example, Cisco’s latest index forecasts predict internet traffic growth of more than ++++ ARPU 5% year-on-year in Latin America between now and 2020, with customers expected to triple the time they spend on mobile devices. Mobile data users 21m As well as wanting more data, consumers Develop data appetite and businesses will increasingly expect the Develop and grow the need same services to be delivered through all of for data through innovative their terminals and devices, blurring the products and services FY 2016 distinction between fixed-line and mobile 18m – 2015 data services. ++ ARPU To enable this convergence of fixed and mobile products, we are rapidly expanding our state-of-the-art fixed networks in Latin Total mobile base America, and increasing our broadband and PayTV footprint. We have also created strategic partnerships with a number of Our market forces global and local digital players to provide relevant content for our customers, including sports, movies and music. Our work to expand our 4G mobile network, Government policy increase smartphone penetration and grow new mobile data and digital revenue streams, Population age GDP growth is also capitalizing on the rapid adoption of data services. We have seen a decline in Voice and SMS Regulation services, which had an impact on revenues in Competition our Latin American markets. However, our strategy is built around this evolution of data and is fully focused on exploiting the new opportunities presented by the rapid growth of data services. Average income Taxation levels Customer Currency volatility segmentation Population growth Corruption index  ead more about R our strategy see pages 13-24 Millicom Annual Report 2016 5 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Market overview – continued Understanding the macro-economic drivers in Latin America In 2016, Millicom commissioned Oxford Economics, a leading macro-economic forecaster, to provide a long range review of the growth prospects and economic environments in each of our markets. Read more here GDP CAGR % 4.95 4.97 4.44 4.57 4.44 5 4.01 4.01 3.79 3.75 3.78 4 3.56 3.46 3.61 3.50 3.40 3.36 3.42 3.19 Latin America 2016 – 2026 3 2.04 2.12 2.07 2 1 0 Bolivia Colombia Costa Rica El Salvador Guatemala Honduras Paraguay 2011–2016 2016–2021 2021–2026 Source: Oxford Economics Average household disposable income US$k 2012 prices 32.12 35 29.09 26.65 30 25.66 24.30 22.18 25 18.66 18.42 16.95 17.82 16.84 17.25 17.10 17.99 20 15.41 12.63 15 9.91 10.34 11.33 8.75 7.79 10 5 0 Bolivia Colombia Costa Rica El Salvador Guatemala Honduras Paraguay 2016 2021 2026 Source: Oxford Economics Households with income >$20k % of total 57.41 60 52.60 45.52 46.47 50 40.95 36.62 34.49 40 31.18 30.06 29.69 28.15 27.33 26.19 27.26 30 23.20 14.06 16.86 20 12.00 8.36 5.65 6.72 10 0 Bolivia Colombia Costa Rica El Salvador Guatemala Honduras Paraguay 2016 2021 2026 Source: Oxford Economics/Control Risk Millicom Annual Report 2016 6 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Market overview – continued Commodity prices and foreign exchange As well as improving and expanding our fixed Our customers: moving up the value rates have continued to influence our network, we have also invested in building a ladder markets. Other challenges have included number of data centers to consolidate and Total data subscribers ’000 managing development in areas of poor grow our B2B sector. Our cloud technology is security, weak infrastructure, and evolving already helping to support a diverse range of regulatory requirements. For more detail, small and medium-sized businesses, large see page 45 Regional Review. national corporations, governments and multinationals in our markets. The need for differentiation Competition has become tougher in some And through our partnerships with other 11,794 12,037 12,318 13,719 of our markets. Here, we have sought to global businesses, such as Microsoft, we are maintain our competitive position by able to offer best-in-class solutions. Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 focusing on providing innovative offers Engaging with regulatory authorities across fast, reliable networks, and by leading In much of our footprint, regulation around on significant positive initiatives that reflect telecom and digital services – as well as the Total 4G subscribers growth ’000 our commitment to sustainability and to legal and tax environment – is continuously acting ethically at all times. 3,432 evolving, creating a level of uncertainty. 845 Our customer is front and center of Issues such as cybersecurity, data privacy, 2,587 everything we do. Our aim is to provide an and spectrum allocation are the subject of 1,908 679 efficient, first-time-right service that delivers increasing regulations by policy makers. 566 1,342 real value. Because we believe regulation must strike a 486 By building partnerships with major global balance between investment stimulation and content developers, we are able to connect consumer benefit, we take an active role in our customers to a near-limitless world of working closely with governments and Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 audio, video and other online media. By policy-making bodies to drive best practice. Net additional subscribers continuing to innovate with our platforms, Acting responsibly developing our services and expanding our Our markets and customers are increasingly infrastructure, we can offer better ways to interested in how we do business and deliver work, shop and play. wider value to our communities. Market trends in Latin America and Africa This connectivity and the surge in the use of It is Millicom’s objective to be a responsible Latin America smart devices will continue to open up access agent for positive change wherever we The markets where we operate have higher to services. operate. Being a responsible business is not medium-term growth outlooks than the Focused on convergence only the right thing to do, it is central to LatAm average. Where the convergence of mobile and fixed managing risks in our operating environment Costa Rica, Colombia, El Salvador, Guatemala networks was once largely focused on Voice, and to strengthening trust with customers, and Paraguay are all expected to have over the past few years it has rapidly investors, employees and other stakeholders. average household incomes approaching or expanded to include the internet and Our partnership with UNICEF on child online above US$20,000 within the next ten years, entertainment. All now must be seamlessly protection and our work on privacy and helping to fuel the growth of the middle class connected at work and at home. freedom of expression are fundamental to and greater purchasing power. Millicom is building this convergence, often our corporate responsibility aims, as is our However, overall GDP growth has slowed in leading the way in terms of access and investment in the communities in which most Latin American countries as the region technology. we work. has been buffeted by weak commodity You can read more about our approach and prices, with many countries having limited the eight key corporate responsibility issues scope for policy response. in Corporate Responsibility Performance In the short term, we expect to see continued Review starting on page 60. strengthening of the US dollar against many of the local currencies where we operate, especially those countries with high exposure to commodity prices. Millicom Annual Report 2016 7 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Market overview – continued Most of our markets offer strong growth Africa potential. Indeed, in B2B specifically, half of In Africa, we operate in five diverse markets, our revenues came from Colombia, where we where smartphone and data penetration anticipate growth in B2B to continue to vary widely. Greater market maturity and exceed average market growth. more intense competition mean that we Our acceleration program We have seen our Voice services decline have concentrated our focus on attracting in Africa has achieved its high-value customers and on providing better faster than expected over 2016, but this has coverage and a reliable network. aim of improving revenue been offset by a faster take-up of our digital services. Revenue from Voice is still growing in our growth.” markets here and so we will continue to Our focus on providing accessible, secure capture Voice value as well as driving a trend digital platforms, channels and ongoing Our biggest African country by revenue, away from multi-SIMs. At the same time we innovation has been key and will continue as Tanzania, has also been the one facing the will monetize data growth and develop our a priority in 2017. biggest challenges. Growth remains good, B2B opportunities. but we faced a number of headwinds: In Latin America, we have put great focus on Over the past year, we have invested in aggressive competition from a new mobile enhancing our network capacity and network modernization and upgrades across operator, as well as changing government improving our customer experience. Better our African footprint. This acceleration policies. However, our strong Tigo brand customer experience helps boost data program has achieved its aim of simplifying perception helped us move ahead to become consumption and brand perception and and speeding up the pace of our African the largest operator by market share. hence, our data traffic has increased. operations, creating efficiencies and centers Additionally, we have achieved and A key focus in 2017 is to grow market share of excellence to drive revenue growth. surpassed our 2016 aim to build and in B2B and to comply with government monetize fixed networks, passing over On a country-specific level, Ghana showed regulations to list the business on the local eight million homes. very positive momentum with a more stable stock exchange. We believe we can play a currency and Rwanda and Senegal also significant part in the growth of this market delivered strong performances. Chad in the region. suffered macro-economic and security issues, and growth was flat. In April 2016, our Democratic Republic of Congo operation was sold to Orange. Connected women Worldwide, the GSMA estimates that 200 million fewer women than men own a mobile phone in low and middle income countries. Closing this gender gap could unlock up to US$170 billion globally for the mobile industry before 2020. This is also a great opportunity for Millicom in our markets. GSMA’s Connected Women Initiative is working to help the industry to address the barriers in connecting women and reducing the gender gap in the use of mobile internet and mobile money services. In July 2016, Millicom became the first operator to commit all its Africa operations to the initiative. Later in the year, Tigo Paraguay became the first operator in Latin America to sign a commitment to reduce the gender gap in its mobile data customer base. Read more here Millicom Annual Report 2016 8 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Chairman’s statement Dear Shareholder, We have delivered strong results, despite Millicom is driving transformational change for people weaker than expected revenues during in Latin America and Africa who want to be connected the year, brought about by challenging on the go, at home, or at work. In this, my first statement macro-economics in some of our largest markets. We remain focused on driving as Chairman of the Board of Millicom, I am inspired by efficiencies and on growth in margins. Millicom’s ability to bring about digital inclusion, as well Executing our strategy as its past performance, and its strong growth potential. Millicom’s strength lies in its strategic focus and execution capability, so it was with unanimous agreement that the Board was able to approve the detailed strategy that was presented to us in June. R  ead more on how we measure progress see page 24 Millicom Annual Report 2016 9 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Chairman’s statement – continued Millicom’s strategy is thorough yet simple. Dividend It retains absolute focus on four pillars: The Board remains committed to creating providing leading digital services; monetizing value for shareholders and we are confident mobile data and building fixed networks; that by executing our strategy, delivering delivering operational efficiencies and acting efficiencies, and investing carefully, we will The ultimate responsibly in the communities where we achieve this. We are pleased to recommend transformational goal operate. Over-arching our strategy is the a final dividend of US$2.64 per share this year. ultimate transformational goal – to become is customer centricity.” Board, management and colleagues a customer-centric organization, delivering We thank our Board members who have on the fast-paced expectations of stepped down this year, Anders Borg, Paul increasingly digitally-sophisticated Donovan and Dame Amelia Fawcett, for their consumers. dedicated service. I would like to express With disciplined capital allocation, a particular recognition to Cristina Stenbeck, strengthened balance sheet, and focus on who stepped down as Chairman of the Board the right fixed and mobile targets, the in May 2016. It was Cristina who initiated the execution of our strategy is now in full force. significant transformations that have taken place in the Company over the past two years. This year’s appointments to the Board committees Millicom Board support the profound transformations taking place and we During 2016, the activities of the former welcomed Ms. Janet Davidson, Mr. José Government Relations and Corporate Miguel Garcia Fernández and Mr. Simon Responsibility Committee were Duffy as new Non-Executive Directors. incorporated into the scope of the full Board. Mauricio Ramos, our Chief Executive Officer, and his leadership team are highly experienced, The Compliance and Business Conduct talented and entirely dedicated to inspiring Committee (established in November every colleague to achieve our vision and 2015) commenced its activities in 2016, deliver on the potential of the business. meeting seven times during the year, and providing the Board with oversight and Outlook recommendations regarding the Group’s We expect that external conditions in some compliance program and standards of of our larger markets will remain challenging business conduct. during 2017. However, the fundamental demand within our markets, driven by These changes were initiated as part of demographics and the increasing appetite the Board’s commitment to strengthen for fixed and mobile connectivity continues its oversight over business. to grow. With the ongoing re-orientation of  ead more in the governance R our business towards our customers and section of our Annual Report convergence, we are well placed to navigate see pages 88-130 this tough trading climate and we will take every opportunity to deliver successfully upon our strategy. Tom Boardman Chairman of the Board of Directors Millicom Annual Report 2016 10 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials  ead more about R how we execute our strategy see pages 18-23 Our business model Millicom connects people to the internet and delivers the As we usually have substance (people, networks, assets) in each of the markets vital services that are enabled by this connection, to the where we operate, it is important we are a home, at work and on the move. By investing in the best responsible member of the community where we work and set a good example with our available technology and the best talent, we are able corporate behavior. We are an integral part to create a compelling digital lifestyle for our customers. of the communities that we serve, so it is important that our business creates sustainable long-term social and The rapid transition towards this digital We are rapidly expanding our footprint of economic value. lifestyle delivers economic growth, and in state-of-the-art Hybrid Fiber Coaxial (HFC) particular growth of the knowledgefixed networks, passing homes and business This is reflected in our partnerships with based economy; this brings with it a wide premises and connecting them to our organizations such as UNICEF and GSMA, range of potential social benefits – in infrastructure. in social investment programs for education, education, in health, in community child protection and community development. We are monetizing the substantial investment cohesion, in financial inclusion – in short, Our corporate citizenship is also reflected in we make in fixed and mobile networks by it can deliver a better quality of life. our objectives to reduce energy consumption providing high quality, secure connectivity as and recycle electronic waste responsibly. Our business is therefore to build state-of-the well as innovative, compelling value-for-money art fixed and mobile networks as well as on our services that consumers and businesses To lead all the changes that our business use of this infrastructure to deliver build demand, placing a targeted multi-channel model demands, we have developed a vibrant services for consumers and businesses. distribution network at their service. working culture that is focused on performance and delivery. Our training, We are rapidly increasing the digital This build-out of our fixed and mobile personal development and career progression capabilities of our mobile networks, extending networks is underpinned by substantial management is enabling people to achieve our 4G network coverage – a technology that further investment in converged IT systems, their own career aspirations within a enables a step change in the size and speed that are engineered to manage all of framework of inclusion and diversity at all of data services that can be delivered to the our business operations and enable our levels within the Company. mobile customer. services to be developed, delivered and monetized efficiently. How we create value Value created Value crea For our customers: all of the opportunities and benefits of The Digital Lifestyle™. ted For our communities: digital inclusion, economic growth For our shareholders: cash flow growth, total shareholder return (TSR) growth Core services Mobile: Voice, SMS and data services; MFS; pre and post-paid contracts. services Core we Home: fixed-line telephony, high-speed broadband, PayTV including crea premium content, DTH (Direct to Home) te va B2B: Voice, SMS and data services, fixed-line telephony, high-speed broadband, lue managed services including Cloud w Ho and expertise Resources and expertise urces so Mobile networks: state-of-the-art 4G plus 3G and 2G Re Fixed networks: state-of-the-art HFC (“Hybrid Fiber Coaxial”) IT infrastructure: converging “back office” systems Distribution: multiple targeted channels to market Suppliers and partners: high quality, competitive technology, win-win relationships People: customer-focused, deep market knowledge, expertise, performance orientated Millicom Annual Report 2016 11 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials How we manage our corporate responsibility Our business strategy and how we deliver it has social and environmental implications. By focusing on key topics we can make a positive difference in the communities where we work. We continually work to understand and monitor the social and environmental topics that rise from our business Our social and operations or that pose concern to our different stakeholder groups – from investors to customers and the wider environmental priorities communities where we operate. Disaster preparedness and response Privacy and  High importance for stakeholders We identify our most material social and freedom of expression Land acquisition and management environmental impacts through internal for our network: community engagement, Child risk and impact assessments and external fair pricing and anti-corruption measures protection stakeholder engagement. Tax transparency Anti-corruption In 2016, we carried out a formal survey and compliance Right to join trade unions and interviews with key stakeholders and identified freedom of association Health and safety  eight topics with significant importance both of employees to our stakeholders and to the successful Living wage execution of our business strategy. Responsible supply Conflict minerals chain management Each issue has dedicated resources, policies, Raising awareness on health impacts action programs and targets in place to Social innovation through of electromagnetic frequency achieve improvement over time, to mitigate our products and services associated risks and increase positive impacts. Employee training Clarity of pricing and billing Ongoing stakeholder dialog Talent attraction and development Reducing our  As well as monitoring each topic internally, environmental footprint we maintain regular dialog with stakeholders Local recruitment and ethnic diversity at both global and country level – including Promoting Responsible marketing diversity responsible investors, industry peers, NGOs LGBT rights and governments. Social Safe use of mobile phones while driving investment This dynamic engagement enables us to put our priorities and initiatives to the test on a Employment of disabled persons Stability and reliability of the network regular basis. We have established long-term Digital inclusion of blind and deaf people partnerships with a number of organizations. At country level, we have various platforms Executive and Board remuneration such as Voice of Customer committees, social media, and Brand Tracker surveys to engage with our customers, and we also engage with local governments and NGOs. High importance for our business strategy  Read more about our corporate responsibility program starting on page 60 Millicom Annual Report 2016 12 Strategy This section contains a comprehensive look at our business. Introduced by our Chief Executive Officer, it is a forward looking evaluation that includes a review of how we deliver, how we create and sustain value, and our selection of performance metrics. 14 Chief Executive Officer’s review 18 Executing our strategy 24 Measuring progress against strategy Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Chief Executive Officer’s review After almost two years into my appointment as CEO, Our goal is to become a high-performing, high-growth, fixed mobile convergent I am energized by the work we have been able to (FMC) operator focused on equity value accomplish and the focus with which we continue creation. to deliver our strategy. For this we have defined a clear, and clearly articulated, operational strategy; an ambitious set of operational priorities; setting and keeping the bar high on ethical and responsible ways of doing business; robust financial targets over the next three to five years that are fully aligned with the  ead our operational review R operational strategy; and a cash flow model see pages 45-59 to underpin our equity value creation model. Millicom Annual Report 2016 14 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Chief Executive Officer’s review – continued I am pleased to say we have made great Our strategy is clear and simple. We will: Leading Digital progress in 2016. We continued to monetize We are developing partnerships with key • Lead digital: internally, we will leverage data and significantly expanded our cable digital players such as Netflix and Microsoft our digital transformation to become a network. We also continued to drive and using technology as an enabler to much leaner operation. For our customers, reconfiguration of our revenue mix to increase our operational efficiency, agility we will continue to innovate and partner mitigate the faster than expected decline in and brand strength. with other digital players to offer our our voice and SMS business which made our customers the best services and local Millicom can offer its partners the revenue growth weaker as the year content. opportunity to acquire new customers in a progressed. new region, adding our deep understanding • Monetize data and build cable: we build In the second half of the year, we focused on of the markets we operate in. In Latin cable; home residential and B2B and we creating a high-performance culture, turning America for instance, we offer our digital are focused on reconfiguring our revenue, up the heat on transformation, efficiency partners more than 700 thousand creating a lighter, more digital organization and cost control through an important distribution points. These are unrivalled which will deliver increased cash flows and project we launched during the year, namely touchpoints into our markets and a key in turn Total Shareholder Returns (TSR). our HEAT project. With this project we aim to competitive advantage. capture the next era of efficiencies that the • Deliver value: as we embrace our digital We will also look at every opportunity to digital transformation can offer. transformation, we are reconfiguring our automate more processes across our business business to create a long term efficient and so that we can continue to improve our sustainable cost structure. Reconfigured reliable, efficient services for our customers. revenue, lighter and digital organization will deliver increased cash flows and in turn TSR. • Act responsibly: do business the right way and drive positive change in the societies where we operate. Our strategy Lead digital Monetize data, Deliver value Act responsibly build cable Digital innovation and Mobile data: Understanding our customers: People: digital services: monetize data reorientation towards total attract, retain and develop innovate and partner with other customer satisfaction, enabling talent, stand for diversity, Cable/fiber footprint: digital leaders to create win-win Millicom to fulfil its vision and encourage the Millicom culture expand our high-speed benefits and offer the best mission broadband footprint and Corporate responsibility: services and local content to our leverage the quality of our Operational efficiency: driving change by delivering customers network for both our consumers executing our strategy results in key projects from waste MFS: and B2B clients programs to freedom of Equity value creation model: consolidate our position of expression to child online Convergence: cash flow growth and leadership, drive customer protection prepare for convergence operational efficiency loyalty, stickiness and reduce between networks, IT systems A role model: churn and channels positive change in society, Customer touchpoints: compliance with laws and Capture synergies from increase customer engagement standards convergence via more convenient digital touchpoints Process automation: introduce smarter more efficient operations which are fit for the future Millicom Annual Report 2016 15 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Chief Executive Officer’s review – continued Monetizing mobile data and building cable In cable we have now built more than eight We make profits for our shareholders, but we This year we have accelerated progress in million homes passed in Latin America. Of also recognize the inherent social value our monetizing data and building a greater cable these, almost 7.2 million are HFC homes with core businesses and connectivity creates. The network. Mobile data and cable segments 3.7 million subscribers, driving organic transforming power of the technology we now represent almost half of our revenue mix revenue growth of more than 9.7%. provide was celebrated at the 71st United in Latin America. Nations General Assembly that showcased We have also leveraged our cable footprint our mobile birth registration programs in Mobile data revenue across the Group has to benefit our B2B customers, who require Ghana and Tanzania. grown by more than 24% in the year and a fast, reliable network on which to grow. we now have 26 million smartphone users We have identified women customers as a Deliver value and almost 3.4 million 4G subscribers. great opportunity for us, and have made We deliver value for both shareholders and Data consumption per subscriber has also industry-leading commitments and created stakeholders. In early 2016, we began a increased by 26% to 1.4 GB per user per programs to address access barriers and two-fold reconfiguration of the business month. We expect this will continue to grow increase the proportion of women in our looking at our revenue mix and our cost very fast in the future. We continue to customer base. structure. Through the HEAT program we are innovate in this space using our customer already transitioning our business towards a I am delighted to have joined the GSMA Board insights, for example to roll out our successful leaner model. As a result, we have significantly and to be able to work with the organization pilot of the All You Can App initiative to help enhanced our Operating Cash Flow (OCF). to ensure that the right strategic, regulatory our customers purchase their data packages and policy frameworks are in place to support in an easy and relevant way. Act responsibly the direction of the industry as we all focus Corporate responsibility and compliance have Strong smartphone and 4G penetration are on connecting the world. great prominence in our business, reflected in the key building blocks for further mobile this first integrated financial and corporate data growth. We will continue to expand our responsibility report. This year we became 4G networks, facilitate smartphone adoption members of the United Nations Global and bring The Digital Lifestyle™ to more Compact to make a public commitment to its people in our markets. We will also shift our principles on human rights, labor standards, balance from volume to attracting higher environmental protection and anti-corruption value customers. compliance. Driving efficiency A multi-year transformation program expected to generate more than US$200m in savings has been launched named Project HEAT. The program is widespread and includes projects ranging from transforming our IT back office systems towards an OTT-like infrastructure, to turning our business into a “Capex light” model with more managed services agreements and network sharing, to implementing shared service centers and to changing our device supply chain to reduce working capital. The result will be a more efficient and effective operating model and thus a stronger cash flow. Millicom Annual Report 2016 16 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Chief Executive Officer’s review – continued Compliance remains a priority. This year we Our people have welcomed our new Chief Ethics and At the executive leadership level, I am Compliance Officer and worked to further pleased to report that we are now at full improve our already robust compliance strength, enabling consistency and stability program. We have a zero-tolerance stance for the business. In 2016, we filled several We are monetizing data and to all forms of bribery and corruption. Our important positions within the Executive building cable, fast.” prevention mechanisms include supplier Committee, welcoming Daniel Loria as Chief assessments and third party due diligence, Human Resources Officer, Esteban Iriarte as as well as with improved training for all Chief Operating Officer for Latin America, employees. These initiatives continue to HL Rogers as Chief Ethics and Compliance ensure ethical and responsible behavior and Officer, and Rodrigo Diehl as Chief Strategy promote respect for our strict codes of Officer. conduct among our employees and suppliers. Together we have created a simpler, more Enabling new, easier and safer access online effective structure, which is functionally and helps to bring about The Digital Lifestyle™. operationally driven. As we bring more people online, we also have It is important to me that during 2017 we a responsibility to protect those who are continue to develop a high performance, more vulnerable. I am proud of the way operationally excellent and customer-focused we have taken leadership on child online culture across the business and that we protection in our regions. ensure best-in-class talent throughout the Our performance organization. To summarize our performance in 2016, In summary, our strategy is in full motion and we delivered strong underlying operational delivering results: we are monetizing data performance. We achieved this in the context and building cable, fast. Placing customer of a difficult macro environment, especially experience at the heart of our decisionin Latin America, and increased top-line making will remain a core focus for us, as pressure due to the accelerated decline of will continuing to innovate across all our SMS and Voice revenues in the region. With operations. While reconfiguring the revenue laser-like focus on operating leverage we mix, we are also undertaking significant managed to significantly grow our OCF, and transformations that I have no doubt will deliver stronger cash flows. Organic service result in many further tangible successes revenue growth for the full year increased by in 2017. 1.2% to US$5.9bn, adjusted EBITDA grew 4.3% to US$2.2bn and our focus on profitable growth at all levels in the Group Mauricio Ramos improved the adjusted EBITDA margin in Chief Executive Officer 2015 by 1.7% to 35.6%. We continue to see selected opportunities for M&A within the boundaries of our existing footprint in order to expand our services and strengthen our overall position. Millicom Annual Report 2016 17 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Executing our strategy Our strategy is to build and monetize The Digital Lifestyle™. Execution is focused on a number of clearly defined priorities, articulated across markets but tailored to the specific competitive dynamics and customer needs of each individual market. During 2016, we continued with the Mobile • Smartphone adoption: we are driving the twofold reconfiguration of our business. Mobile services remain the largest part of our adoption of data-capable smartphone business, accounting for 64% of our total devices that enable customers to use data On the revenue side, we accelerated the revenues, and by the end of 2016 we had services on the move. By the end of 2016, migration from mobile legacy voice and SMS to more than 57 million mobile customers across our smartphone user base in Latin America data, as well as continued expanding our cable eleven markets in Latin America and Africa. reached 20 million subscribers, or 63% of footprint as an enabler for our fast-growing our total Latin American customer base. Home and B2B businesses. On the operational In Latin America, the mobile market has side, we continued the reconfiguration of our continued its rapid transformation from • Data usage: we are creating compelling cost base, with Digital as a key enabler to being mainly a voice and SMS market to data-centric products and services to capture efficiencies and increase operational being data-driven, and as a result the share encourage our consumers to consume leverage to drive cash flow growth. We also of our revenues that comes from Latin more data, while maintaining price increased our focus and efforts to delight our American legacy voice and SMS has discipline. In Africa, where our mobile customers with a superior customer experience. continued to decrease: in 2016 it represented revenues grew by 11% in 2016, the mobile Finally, we reaffirmed our commitment to 28% of our total revenues, down from 32% market remains primarily a voice and SMS invest in our people and act responsibly and in 2015. Our strategy to monetize the rapidly market, and therefore our strategy is driven in compliance. growing demand for mobile data is built by further high-value customer acquisition around a number of key drivers: and growing the usage of both voice and mobile data. By the end of 2016 we had • 4G networks: we are expanding our 4G almost 15 million data users in Latin coverage, a technology that enables us to America and Africa, representing more deliver high volumes of data at high speeds than a quarter of our total customer base. to our customers. In 2016, we announced We are focused on growing our first 4G services for Honduras, Paraguay our high-value, digitally and El Salvador. By the end of the year, we active customers.” tripled the number of 4G subscribers, to reach 3.4 million 4G subscribers. Mobile data revenue % Raising our ambition Revenue reconfiguration % As percentage of LatAm service revenue Number of homes passed 2015 2016 12m Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 7,020 LatAm Voice & SMS 33.37 31.65 29.69 28.55 28.12 6,374 7.6m >8.1m Africa and other 21.89 22.58 22.21 22.09 21.76 LatAm mobile data 18.30 19.46 20.45 21.65 21.78 Cable 26.44 26.31 27.64 27.71 28.33 19.8 24.6 Strategic focus 44.74 45.77 48.09 49.36 50.12 2015 2016 2015 2016 Ambition Mobile data revenue LatAm service revenue Millicom Annual Report 2016 18 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Executing our strategy – continued Mobile Financial Services Home With more than two billion unbanked people Demand for PayTV and fixed broadband world-wide, Mobile Financial Services (MFS) access continues to grow rapidly across our innovations have the power to reduce markets in Latin America, as coverage, usage poverty and boost prosperity in the markets and affordability increase. Our strategy to Creating an effortless where Millicom operates. We have a solid address this attractive digital growth customer experience.” track record of innovation in MFS, providing opportunity is built around four priorities: a broad range of services such as payments, • Build fast: we are accelerating the roll-out money transfers, international remittances, savings, real-time loans and micro-insurance of our high-speed HFC fixed network and Mobile Financial Services are complementing it through targeted for critical needs such as health. It makes With more than two billion people acquisitions that complement our sending and receiving money easier and less unbanked worldwide, fintech innovations footprint. In 2016 we passed 486.5 expensive, giving users the freedom to use like Mobile Money have the power to thousand households, reaching a total of their money how and when they want. It is reduce poverty and boost prosperity in 8.1 million homes passed by the end of the also a significant driver of customer the markets where Millicom operates. year – on our way to achieve our ambition satisfaction and loyalty as well as churn of 12 million homes passed by 2021. We provide Mobile Financial Services such reduction. Today we provide MFS to more than 11.8 million customers, representing • Fill faster: we fill the network as fast as as money transfers, savings, loans and 21% of our customer base. possible, converting homes passed into merchant payments. It makes sending and homes connected. Our current penetration receiving money easier and less expensive, is 38.2%. giving users the freedom to use their money how and when they want. • Monetize faster: we upsell through bundling of services to ensure we maximize Read more here the number of revenue-generating units per household. In 2016 we continued to improve our bundling ratio, reaching 1.8 revenue generating units per household. • Product innovation: we drive customer connections onto our network by expanding our range of digital services and aggregating content, including exclusive local content, enabling us to differentiate our offerings from others in the market. Tigo Business Forum Tigo Business Forums took place in seven LatAm countries this year. These events have grown to become among the largest and most important technology and innovation conventions in the region with more than 5,000 attending the series. At these networking conferences, we offer insight into the latest technology trends directly from renowned international speakers such as Jared Cohen, President of JIGSAW (Google Ideas), Susana Voces, President of eBay Spain, Marc Randolph, co-founder of Netflix and Steve Wozniak, co-founder of Apple. Read more here Millicom Annual Report 2016 19 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Executing our strategy – continued B2B Digital B2B represents a significant growth To deliver the promise of a Digital Lifestyle opportunity, with several of our operations in and as key enabler for delighting our Latin America and Africa where B2B is customers with a simple and positive under-represented and provides an experience, we continue to implement our opportunity to grow to its ‘fair share’ of total digital transformation with speed and revenues. Our strategy is to grow by leveraging priority, focusing on four dimensions: the capillarity of our fixed network, as well as • New digital services: throughout 2016 our strong mobile market position. We are also we have been building as well as rolling out expanding our product portfolio to deliver our digital innovation pipeline, launching more value added services and business innovative services and content for our solutions such as cloud services and ICT customers. As an example, we launched managed services. Our data center business is “All you can App”, which allows our prepaid growing at double digits in Colombia. In 2016 customers to enjoy unrestricted time-based we inaugurated two new state-of-the-art Tier access to their favorite mobile applications. III data centers in Paraguay and Bolivia. We We have also partnered with digital leaders have established partnerships that are to establish win-win cooperation models opening up new possibilities in M2M and IoT, and bring the best content to our such as smart cities, telematics, smart customers. metering, and smart vending machines among others. Our strong Central American • Enhanced digital channels: we are B2B footprint and fiber backbone also means driving adoption and usage of more that we can service the needs of businesses convenient digital channels. In 2016 we with a regional footprint as well as reached 2.2 million active users of Millicom multinationals that operate in the region. digital channels for sales and care, with very positive results in terms of customer Convergence engagement and satisfaction and a direct In all of our Latin American markets we are correlation to churn reduction. one of the two existing mobile players who has the lead and focus to build a modern • Digitized operations: we have continued high-speed broadband network. We continue to automate customer-facing as well as to converge our organizations, channels, internal processes to drive efficiencies and backend and fixed and mobile networks become a leaner operation. to drive efficiencies and capture synergies. • IT transformation: we are transforming It also enables us to offer innovative convergent our backend IT systems and infrastructure services to governments, businesses and to enable The Digital Lifestyle™ now and consumers, increasing loyalty and reducing in the future. We are simplifying and churn and customer acquisition costs. converging our IT, migrating to an OTT-like Customer centricity architecture and low-cost operating model. The needs and desires of our customers are paramount and we will continue to place our customers and their experience at the heart of all our decision-making. To achieve our ambition of delighting our customers throughout their journeys, we are investing to strengthen our customer centric culture, as well as deploying a net promoter scorecard (“NPS”). As some of our markets in Latin America reach more maturity, we are also upgrading and focusing our retention efforts. In 2016 we created a Customer Experience team at Corporate level, to help us accelerate the deployment and sharing of best practices across markets. Millicom Annual Report 2016 20 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Executing our strategy – continued People and partnerships As we execute our strategy, we rely on Just as Millicom has a strategic focus on 17,985 employees a wide range of resources and expertise developing our digital services externally, we 86% from our people, partners and suppliers. are also driving this goal internally. We are 1 digitalising some of our key HR processes, Our people including our performance management Our employees are the lynchpin to the system which has now been rolled out online of our senior managers successful delivery of our business strategy. By – giving managers and their staff easy digital are recruited locally enabling and motivating our people across all access to this extremely important process. our markets, we help to make Millicom flourish. 95% We have strengthened the capabilities Next year, we will build on this by digitizing 1 further HR processes for our workforce. of our human resources function to better support continued development and high Our employee profile of our employees are native to the performance of our employees. We created Millicom has 17,985 employees, more than country they are employed in a global center of expertise, and a more 15,900 of whom work in Latin America. streamlined, efficient and proactive talent 95%1 of our employees are of local management team with clear roles and nationality to the country they are employed responsibilities. Our new set up has further in. We are proud of our highly ethnically strengthened our offering and helped to diverse workforce which comprises 82 focus on talent development, retention and nationalities. Our employee base is young, succession planning. with 39% of our employees under 30. At the same time, we have improved our We have continued our work in building the Trend of total workforce leadership development program and begun most effective team structures to futuredelivering on our diversity and inclusion proof our business, which has resulted in 26,235 27,088 training, including a focus on unconscious some significant changes to our business, as bias, to our top Executive Team. We are now outlined in on the next page, in line with in the process of developing the content and industry trends. 12,206 8,588 preparing to roll out the training to all our Developing our staff staff since the end of 2016. 14,133 17,985 As our company grows and we develop 2014 2015 2016 Diversity and inclusion are particularly new products and services, it becomes even important for us as they lead to new ways more important to understand the skill Employees Outsourced workforce of working, different thought models and sets we already have in place and map the innovation to set us ahead of our competitors. new skills we will need to build and monetize Our people by age and gender Encouraging awareness, personal ownership The Digital Lifestyle™. and accountability takes our work culture to 1 As of end of Q3 2016. 37% the next level. 2 Calculated excluding training hours delivered in Chad, as we continue improving systematic tracking of training hours provided. 21% 1% 4% Average number of hours of training provided1,2 18% 19% 2014 2015 2016 <30 30–50 >50 years years years Women employees 24 27 16 Women Men employees 23 23 18 Men Senior managers 19 19 34 Employees excluding senior managers 32 24 17 Turnover rate of all employees (Group) 37% 25% New hires vs. turnover 20% Turnover % Number of leavers Number of new hires 18% Women Men Women Men Women Men Latin America 19 27 1,229 2,604 2,390 2,965 Africa 31 32 151 386 28 114 Millicom Group 20 28 1,411 3,067 2,455 3,137 2014 2015 2016 Millicom Annual Report 2016 21 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Executing our strategy – continued In our African operations we have trained all Contributing to local employment Significant changes our country leadership teams on Tigo We continue to focus on retaining and to our business Leadership Essentials. In our Tanzania operation we have conducted a talent promoting local talent to senior management roles, with 86% of our senior In Africa, the outsourcing of our network mapping process pilot for around 55 managers locally employed. We have also maintenance was finalized in May 2015. managers. Across all our African operations proactively engaged with leading universities In 2016, we adopted a similar model in we have conducted a succession mapping to attract top local talent in both regions, for three of our LatAm markets. This process, with robust plans now place. example through our partnership with INCAE transition into managed services mirrors in Latin America. one that is taking place across our Performance management industry. The main driver for us was to We have a robust performance management We provide an eight-week sales and business focus our resources and efforts on system where our employees can contribute training program for our indirect sales force. delivering our core services and increase to the business success and feel rewarded for This year we have continued to evolve the the quality of service by leveraging the their hard work. All employees have annual initiative to become the Tigo Experience expertise of a global supplier. objectives, which are reviewed together by School. We are providing sales and services employee and manager mid-year and at the training programs in all our Latin American In these countries, the managed services end of the year. Employees receive bonuses operations. In 2016, we offered comprehensive provider was contractually tied to take over based on both their individual performance training journeys for Mobile, Tigo Star, all our staff with equal or better conditions grading and company performance criteria. Tigo Money, Dealers, DMS and advanced and with a 12-month job guarantee. customer-oriented workshops in the areas Taking care of our people: of consultative selling and negotiation. health and safety In total, some 17,200 participants completed Most of our operations have specific Health our Tigo Experience School programs across and Safety Committees with employee the region. representation. For more information on our work, see pages 76-77. Additionally, we have incorporated and successfully implemented focused leadership Across our Latin American operations and Listening to our people training for commercial leaders and during corporate offices in Miami and Luxembourg, We continue to conduct the Great Place to 2016 delivered programs such as Coaching, we conducted a talent mapping process for Work© survey in our LatAm operations, with Team Building, Team Leader Journeys and in around 900 managers and developed our overall Trust Index© score increasing by total trained about 728 people in LatAm. personal development and succession plans. almost 10% to 80. The surveys help us to In collaboration with INCAE, the leading assess our internal climate as well as to In Africa we trained just under 30,000 business school in Latin America, we benchmark ourselves across our operations freelancers and point of sale distributors. continued to deliver a one week Digital and also against other companies in our Our freelancers who complete this training Leadership and Lifestyle program for 23 markets. All of the six Latin American often out-perform in terms of new customer senior managers, and a two week Future operations surveyed this year scored over acquisition. Leaders program for 62 people which is 75 in the Great Place to Work© Trust Index©, Respecting our employees’ targeted at our top talent in middle with Tigo Guatemala leading for the second right to collective bargaining management across the region. As a result, year running, Tigo Paraguay in second place Collective bargaining agreements (CBA) are participants from our Bolivia, Costa Rica, and Tigo Bolivia in third place on Great Place in place in our operations in Colombia, Chad Honduras and Paraguay operations are now to Work© “Empresas con mejor clima laboral” and Senegal, accounting for 22% of our total activating and transferring their knowledge (“best working environment”). employee base. We have successfully gained during the program into their local The survey tells us that our strengths lie reached an agreement in Senegal in 2016 businesses. in how employees value the special and and the CBA was established. In Colombia, Our regional leadership training offer is unique contribution that they can bring, the there are twelve unions established which all composed of three programs: Leading for important role that our organization plays employees of TigoUne and its subsidiaries Entrepreneurship (61 participants in 2016), in the community and our commitment to are free to join. Change Management (88 participants), and diversity. The survey has also helped identify We also engage with trade unions in some Tigo Leadership Essentials (211 participants). areas of improvement such as decision of our countries, where formal CBAs do not Our Colombia, Bolivia, Guatemala and Costa making, creating more opportunity for exist, as they do not yet meet the legally Rica operations also implemented further collaboration, reward and recognition. required number of members to establish local programs for 805 leaders. Each operation has prepared a country and CBAs, such as in Tanzania. business area plan, linked to their culture Our Luxembourg office also has a formal change plans, to improve employee Staff Delegation in place, who is appointed satisfaction scores. through an employee vote. Millicom Annual Report 2016 22 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Executing our strategy – continued Our External Partners Tax contributions In an increasingly interconnected and In addition to our investments to Digital workforce interdependent world we strongly believe in telecommunication infrastructure, another In 2016, work began on an Employee partnering with third parties to establish direct way we contribute to local economies is Portal to help us collaborate, communicate win-win relationships. through taxes. Our biggest tax contribution is and share relevant information more through corporate income tax, reported in the efficiently across the business. We are Our long-term, strategic partnerships both at table below per region where the taxes are walking the talk by making our back office global and operational level have helped us paid. In addition, there are other taxes we processes and procedures more digital, become a leading telecommunications contribute, which are not based on earnings, interactive and mobile-friendly. The portal operator in managing material corporate including telecom tax, indirect tax, VAT and is under development with colleagues in responsibility topics, such as child online excise duties, withholding tax, payroll tax, HQ and El Salvador. In early 2017, we plan protection and privacy and freedom of asset tax and wealth tax. And of course, the to roll out this new business tool to a wider expression. Through partnerships, for example people we employ also pay income tax on group of colleagues. with UNICEF, Civil Rights Defenders and their earnings. Global Network Initiative, Millicom continues to acquire a better understanding of human rights issues in our operating markets and how to tackle them. We not only rely on the expertise of our partners, but also share our in-depth knowledge about our industry to Corporate income tax paid by region jointly develop innovative solutions and tools. Unallocated Total continuing Working with small local vendors as well as Year Latin America Africa items operations* large multinationals, Millicom has a diverse 2016 (US$m) (234) (17) (9) (259) range of strategic business partners: for 2015 (US$m) (230) (16) (6) (252) network and IT equipment and operations, 2014 (US$m) (295) (25) (60) (380) digital and traditional content, high-end and *Total tax paid by the Group in 2016. entry-level phones, and sales and marketing among others. We are continuously looking for innovative ways of partnering and cooperating with third parties. We regularly meet our strategic partners to discuss project execution, quality of products and services, and to foster innovation and develop effective relationships. Such alignment is crucial as our suppliers are critical to ensure we have satisfied customers. We formalize our efforts in a supplier scorecard and track progress on agreed action points on a monthly basis. Compliance and corporate social responsibility are an integral part of this scorecard. Our Supplier Code of Conduct has been a mandatory annex to all contracts since 2014 and this year we have strengthened our overall governance framework for suppliers. Industry leading partnership with UNICEF Two years into our partnership with UNICEF, we have brought together a diverse array our collaboration continues to lead the way of stakeholders to raise awareness of child on child rights in our sector. online protection, developing support materials for our customers to protect their To date, the collaboration has focused on children online and most recently pledging jointly identifying key child rights issues in support for further developing child helplines the digital world and creating tools for in three of our Central American operations. telecom companies to manage the impacts their business operations may have on the  ead more here and on R To find out more about our work rights of children. Together with UNICEF, pages 64-66. on responsible supply chain management, see pages 78-79 Millicom Annual Report 2016 23 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials P  lease refer to our corporate responsibility (CR) performance review section for a more detailed list of our KPIs around Millicom’s eight most material CR topics see page 61 Measuring progress against strategy Lead digital 2014 2015 2016 Active users (customers who use digital sales and 9 10 12 care channels) (millions) MFS penetration including Zantel (%) 16.9 18.0 20.5 Monetize Mobile 2014 2015 2016 Data users (m) 15 18 21 Smartphone penetration (%) 23.9 35.5 44.6 4G subscribers (’000) 856 3,432 Data usage (GB/sub/month) 0.9 1.1 Data revenues as % of mobile revenues 20.0 26.0 33.0 Home 2014 2015 2016 Number of homes passed (’000) 7,084 7,632 8,119 HFC bundling ratio (RGUs per household) 1.6 1.7 1.8 HFC homes connected per homes passed (%) 31.0 30.0 29.0 B2B 2014 2015 2016 Revenues as % of total revenues 10.9 14.0 14.5 Deliver value Operational efficiency 2014 2015 2016 Opex % revenue 40.7 40.1 38.8 EBITDA % revenue 32.8 32.4 34.8 OCF (EBITDA – Capex) % revenue 13.9 13.5 18.3 Cash flow 2014 2015 2016 OCF (US$) 887 930 1,141 eFCF (US$) (43) 274 269 Return On Capital Invested (ROIC) (%) 15.5 16.0 Act responsibly 2014 2015 2016 Turnover rate for all employees 20% 18% 25% % of employees who have acknowledged the 70% 52% 81% Code of Conduct Total carbon emissions (Scope 1, 2 and 3) tonnes per 0.039 0.043 0.040 US$1,000 revenue Number of employee fatalities 1 1 0 % spend represented by suppliers assessed by EcoVadis N/A 53% 48% Total monetary value of volunteering and donations 13,490 12,411 9,984 Millicom Annual Report 2016 24 Performance This section provides a multifaceted overview of our performance in 2016, including a report from our Chief Financial Officer, our risk profile and how it impacts our strategy, an operational review of our regions and a performance review of our corporate responsibility. 26 Chief Financial Officer’s review 31 Risk management 45 Latin America performance review 55 Africa performance review 60 Corporate responsibility performance review Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Chief Financial Officer’s review In 2016, we made progress in growing our margins, improving our cash flow and strengthening our capital structure. The business proved resilient to a more difficult operating environment aided by our focus on costs and targeted investment. Millicom Annual Report 2016 26 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Chief Financial Officer’s review – continued Key financial highlights of the year1 2 US$m 2016 2015 % change 1 Guatemala and Honduras businesses fully consolidated. See “Additional information” on pages 197 to 200 for Revenue 6,249 6,572 (4.9) reconciliation with IFRS numbers. The comparative 2015 Organic growth (%) (0.4) 7.3 financial information has been re-presented as a result of the classification of our operations in DRC as discontinued Service revenue 5,855 6,056 (3.3) operations (in accordance with IFRS 5). Organic growth (%) 1.2 5.8 2 Alternative performance measures are non-GAAP measures that are presented to provide readers with Reported EBITDA 2,172 2,188 (0.8) additional financial information that is regularly Adjusted EBITDA 2,225 2,227 (0.1) reviewed by management and used to make decisions about operating matters. It should not be viewed in Organic growth (%) 4.3 9.0 isolation or as an alternative to the equivalent GAAP Adjusted EBITDA margin (%) 35.6 33.9 measure. See “Additional information” on pages 197 to 200 for definitions and reconciliations to the closest Capex 1,031 1,258 (18.1) respective equivalent IFRS measures. Operating cash flow (“OCF”) 1,141 930 22.7 3 Before corporate costs Return on Invested Capital (“ROIC”)3 16.0% 15.5% NM Net debt 4,181 4,295 (2.6) Revenue Operating profit outstanding bonds, and for the early Full year revenue was US$6,249 million, down Depreciation and amortization of redemption of our Swedish Krona bond due 4.9% on a reported basis but a decrease of US$1,368 million was 6.8% higher year-onin 2017. Finance lease charges accounted only 0.4% in local currency. Service revenue year and includes the fair value adjustment for US$66 million of net financial expenses, in the full year was US$5,855 million, 1.2% relating to the deconsolidation of Guatemala compared to US$80 million in 2015. higher than in 2015 on an organic basis. The and Honduras. The loss of US$1 million in respect of other difference between total revenue and service Other operating expenses in the full year of non-operating income for the full year revenue represents handset and equipment US$43 million were US$21 million lower than reflected the impact of more stable currencies sales, which declined by 25% on a reported in 2015, with around half of this charge due across our markets, compared to 2015 when basis mainly due to the fewer handsets being to the impairment of assets related to the we incurred foreign exchange losses over sold directly in several Latin American markets, Guatemala surveillance contract. US$300 million. 2015 also included a as well as the lower price mix of handsets sold. non-cash loss recognized on the Operating profit was US$761 million, down Gross margin deconsolidation of Guatemala and Honduras, 9.8% year-on-year, mainly due to lower Gross profit was US$4,594 million, 3.9% partially offset by the non-cash adjustment gross profit and higher depreciation and lower than 2015, but the gross margin to the fair value of the put options. amortization more than offsetting the improved to 73.5% from 72.7% last year, reduction in operating costs. Losses from associates of US$49 million reflecting the lower proportion of handset included the impairment of the value of our sales in the revenue mix. Profit (loss) before tax interest in LIH (in 2015 a profit from Net financial expenses were US$472 million, Earnings before interest and tax associates was recorded, mainly due to the US$69 million higher than in 2015. Higher Operating expenses in the full year were revaluation of our stake in HTA following a levels of local currency debt in Colombia US$2,422 million, 6.5% lower than in 2015 funding round). meant that we incurred significantly higher and representing 38.8% of total revenue, interest charges on our debt held there, and Profit before tax was US$239 million compared to 39.4% in the prior year. The we also incurred one-off costs of compared to a loss of US$84 million in 2015, main drivers of the reduction in operating US$25 million in respect of our tender offer due to the other non-operating items expenses included lower corporate costs, in December 2016 for US$300 million of described above. operational efficiencies generated by Project HEAT in Latin America, and tighter cost control in Africa. Corporate costs in the full Reconciliation from operating profit to adjusted EBITDA year fell by US$44 million to US$165 million, and accounted for 2.6% of total revenue, US$m 2016 2015 compared to 3.2% in 2015. Operating profit 482 843 Adjusted EBITDA for the full year was Depreciation and amortization 1,368 1,281 US$2,225 million, representing organic Loss (gain) on disposal/write down of assets, net 43 64 growth of 4.3% year-on-year. The EBITDA 2,172 2,188 US$53 million full-year adjustment principally EBITDA as a % of revenue 34.8 33.3 included charges in respect of restructuring Restructuring, integration costs and other one-offs 53 39 in Colombia, provisions for one-off Adjusted EBITDA 2,225 2,227 contractual claims, tax charges and disputes, Adjusted EBITDA as a % of revenue 35.6 33.9 and charges for de-recognition of the surveillance contract in Guatemala. Millicom Annual Report 2016 27 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Chief Financial Officer’s review – continued Performance US$m 2016 2015 % change Scope changes Revenue 6,249 6,572 (4.9) During 2016, Millicom disposed of its Cost of sales (1,655) (1,793) (7.7) businesses in the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) to Orange S.A. The sale of Gross profit 4,594 4,778 (3.9) these operations generated a cash inflow Operating expenses (2,422) (2,590) (6.5) of US$147 million, net of US$33 million of EBITDA 2,172 2,188 (0.8) cash disposed. Depreciation and amortization (1,368) (1,281) 6.8 On 31 December 2015, the existing call Other operating income (expenses), net (43) (64) (32.3) options with local partners lapsed and Operating profit 761 843 (9.8) under IFRS 10 and 11, Millicom Net financial expenses (472) (403) 17.1 deconsolidated its investments in Comcel Other non-operating income (expenses), net (1) (624) (99.8) (Guatemala) and Celtel (Honduras). This Gains (losses) from associates, net (49) 100 NM has resulted in a non-cash negative value Profit (loss) before tax 239 (84) NM adjustment of US$391 million. Net tax credit (charge) (251) (278) (9.6) From 31 December 2015 onwards, Profit (loss) for the period from continuing Millicom accounts for its investments in operations (13) (361) (96.5) Comcel and Celtel under the equity Non-controlling interests (38) (115) (66.7) method and thus reports its share of the Profit (loss) from discontinued operations 19 (83) NM net income of each of these businesses in the income statement starting 1 January Net profit (loss) for the period (32) (559) (94.3) 2016. For the purpose of comparison and Adjusted net profit (loss) for the period 73 87 (16.6) to provide users of this financial review a Adjusted earnings per share 0.73 0.87 (16.6) full understanding of the financial condition of the Group, the financial Tax The significantly steeper fall in total revenue information presented in this section is on The Group net tax charge in 2016 of was due to lower direct handset sales, mainly a pro forma basis as if the Honduran and US$251 million was almost 10% lower than in Colombia and Paraguay. Guatemalan businesses continue to be 2015, mainly due to profit mix changes and fully consolidated. Voice and SMS service revenue fell by 15.2% to lower withholding tax on cash repatriation Further information on the accounting US$1,727 million, while mobile data revenue Net profit grew organically by 22.7% to US$1,221 million. implications of the deconsolidation are The share of profits of non-controlling Total cable service revenue grew by 7.4% provided in the notes to the consolidated interests reduced by US$77 million, to year-on-year, with fixed B2B revenue increasing financial statements. US$38million, again reflecting the by 2.7% and residential cable revenue growing restructuring charges in Colombia and fair by 9.7% organically in the year. value adjustments in Guatemala and EBITDA in LatAm declined by 2.2% in the Honduras mentioned above. The profit of year, with the EBITDA margin of 38.5% US$19 million from discontinued operations slightly higher than in 2015. reflected the profit on the sale of our business in DRC, for which a loss of US$83 million was Capital expenditure reduced by 17% in the recorded in 2015. full year to US$867 million, compared to US$1,045 million in 2015, again mainly The net loss for the period was US$32 million, reflecting the tighter focus of the investment compared to a net loss of US$559 million in program on core growth areas of HFC and 4G 2015. Adjusted net profit was US$73 million and convergence-focused IT capabilities. (US$87 million in 2015). Adjusted earnings Around 47% of our capital expenditure was per share was 0.73 cents (2015: 0.87 cents). invested in the fixed network and 39% in the The Group’s ROIC was 13.1% after corporate mobile network. costs, compared to 11.7% in 2015. The ROIC on operations was 16.0% compared to Investment in spectrum and licenses was 15.5% in 2015. US$94 million, of which US$39 million was cash payments. LatAm Total revenue in Latin America declined by Operating cash flow in LatAm in the 1.8% in 2016 on an organic basis, to full year grew by 3.3% year-on-year to US$5,352 million. Service revenue declined US$1,197 million, representing an OCF by 0.2% year-on-year, to US$4,966 million. margin of 22.4%. Millicom Annual Report 2016 28 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Chief Financial Officer’s review – continued Africa EBITDA reached US$258 million, up 39.2%, For the full year 2016, revenue in Africa is up while EBITDA margin improved from 22.1% 9.6% organically, mainly coming from mobile to 28.7%. Capex for the year was service revenue which grew by 10.5%. Our US$160 million, down US$58 million compared subscriber base increased by 2.9% or to 2015. There were no new investments in 725,000 net adds in the year while the spectrum or licenses in Africa during 2016. As mobile data subscriber base grew by 26.3% a result of both focus on profitable growth, or 1.4 million users, with smartphone discipline on cost and expenses and a careful penetration increasing to 22%, from around investment program OCF improved from an 15% at the start of the year. outflow of US$34 million in 2015 to positive US$97 million in 2016, a swing of almost B2B revenue almost doubled, with growth US$132 million. in both public and private sector contracts, driven by our network and data center investments, local partnerships and expanded distribution channels. MFS subscribers are up 18.3% or 1.3 million new users in the mobile wallet ecosystem. Free Cash Flow US$m 2016 2015 Adjusted EBITDA 2,225 2,227 Restructuring, integration costs and other one-offs (53) (39) EBITDA 2,172 2,188 Net cash Capex (excluding spectrum and licenses) (1,051) (1,123) Change in working capital and other non-cash items (1) 79 Operating cash flow 1,121 1,144 Taxes paid (259) (252) Operating Free Cash Flow 861 892 Interest paid, net (427) (349) Free Cash Flow 434 543 Advances for and dividends to non-controlling interests (165) (269) Equity Free Cash Flow 269 274 Equity Free Cash Flow in 2016 was of advances for dividends to non-controlling US$269 million, more than covering the interests, offset by working capital, which proposed Millicom Group dividend payment was flat in the year compared to of US$265 million. This excludes cash US$79 million inflow in 2015, and higher net payments in respect of spectrum and interest payments, these being mainly due licenses of US$39 million, including to higher levels of local currency debt, US$30 million for 4G spectrum in Paraguay. particularly in Columbia, and the one-off costs of the bond tender offers and early Equity Free Cash Flow was broadly flat redemptions. Cash tax was broadly flat compared to 2015, but this reflected a year-on-year. combination of slightly higher Adjusted EBITDA, lower cash Capex, and a lower level Millicom Annual Report 2016 29 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Chief Financial Officer’s review – continued Assets, liabilities and equity US$m 2016 20151 Change Intangible assets, net 4,618 4,851 (233) Tangible assets, net 4,205 4,228 (23) Investments in joint ventures and associates 331 373 (42) Cash and cash equivalents and restricted cash 1,103 1,083 20 Other (non-)current assets 1,627 1,902 (275) Total assets 11,884 12,437 (553) Equity attributable to owners 2,976 3,285 (309) Non-controlling interests 1,095 1,165 (70) Debt and financing 5,290 5,385 (95) Other (non-)current liabilities 2,523 2,602 (79) Total equity and liabilities 11,884 12,437 (553) 1 Comparative information has been restated after finalization of Zantel’s purchase accounting Intangible assets Debt and key financing activities Intangible assets decreased during the year At 31 December 2016, the Group gross debt as an effect of the amortization charge of decreased by US$95 million, mainly due to US$345 million, partly offset by the gross the effects of the to the repurchase of additions for the year and currency gains. US$300 million of 2020 and 2012 Senior Notes undertaken through a tender offer in Tangible assets December 2016, as well the repayment of Tangible assets slightly decreased during the around US$50 million of debt in Colombia, year mainly as an effect of the depreciation and the early full redemption of charge of US$1,029 million, impairment US$40 million of SEK bonds maturing in charge of US$26 million (Guatemala mainly), 2017. This was partly offset by the issuance partly offset by the gross additions for the of several new financings. year of US$905 million and currency gains. At 31 December 2016, 71% of group debt Investment in joint ventures and was at fixed interest rates and 35% was in associates local currency, compared to 30% at the end Investment in joint ventures and associates of 2015, and in line with our aim of increasing decreased by US$42 million, mainly due to the proportion of total Group debt held in the losses from our investments in AIH and local currency, to mitigate the risks of LIH (e-commerce ventures) including an currency volatility. The average maturity of impairment on LIH for US$40 million. our debt stood at 5.4 years and our average Equity and non-controlling interests cost of debt excluding finance leases Equity attributable to the owners of the remained flat at 6.5%. Group has decreased by US$309 million Group net debt, including Guatemala and mainly because of the loss for the year of Honduras on a fully consolidated basis, was US$32 million and US$265 million of US$4,181 million at the end of December dividend declared in 2016. 2016, US$114 million lower than at the end Non-controlling interests have decreased by of 2015, reflecting stronger cash flows. Net US$70 million mainly due to the effects of debt/EBITDA, based on the last 12 months dividends declared in 2016 of US$224 million, EBITDA, was 1.93x at 31 December 2016, partly offset by the profit for the year of compared to 1.97x at the same time US$38 million and currency gains of last year. US$117 million. Millicom Annual Report 2016 30 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Risk management In 2016, Millicom further refined its strategy to lead digital, monetize data, deliver value and act responsibly. Risks including the macro-economic Millicom’s speed of execution, innovation and that systems and controls are in place and environment, competitive dynamics and and flexibility have contributed to its are operating effectively to manage risks to an political and regulatory environments success. Millicom is smaller than some of its acceptable level (the “residual risk”). remained at the forefront of management main competitors, and operates within the Millicom’s approach to risk management is decision making. constraints and limitations attributable utilized by our operating countries, business to its smaller size. These include access From an operational perspective, Millicom units and corporate functions. Key strategic to, and cost of capital, financial resources successfully obtained and renewed licenses and operating risks are assessed from an and in investing in innovation and growth. in a number of our markets, and accelerated overall Group perspective, as well as by investment in cable and mobile data in Certain inherent risks are prevalent in many individual country and business unit. Risk response to further weakening in demand of these markets, over which Millicom has no action plans that seek to balance risks with for Voice and SMS services. Our business or limited control. The risks described below returns are developed, implemented and models and expansion continues to focus on are not the only risks to which Millicom and modified over time as the underlying risks reducing our exposure to these traditional the Group are exposed. Additional risks that evolve. Action steps are implemented both mobile operator services. are not currently known to Millicom, or that globally and locally by country executives Millicom currently considers to be immaterial, and key decision makers. The impact of macro-economic headwinds could have a material adverse effect on was less notable than in 2015, although A network of risk officers is in place at Millicom’s and the Group’s business. The currency volatility remains a key risk in some headquarters and each significant operating order in which the risks are presented is not of our markets (including Colombia, Paraguay country level. intended to provide an indication of the and Tanzania). likelihood of their occurrence or of their The risk function is tasked with identifying, Risk landscape and appetite relative significance. analyzing, monitoring and coordinating Millicom operates its businesses and Millicom’s approach to balancing risk with As a consequence, Millicom’s risk appetite is generates substantially all of its income in return and reporting to the Executive Team. higher than many of its peers in the emerging markets in Central America, South The Audit Committee, on behalf of the telecommunications industry, and its risk profile America and Africa. As Millicom does not Board, reviews the effectiveness of risk wider than many international businesses. operate in any developed market economies, function activities on a regular basis. it is exposed to a higher inherent degree of Risk management framework Risk identification risk, and potentially different risks than and approach Millicom reviews its principal risks on telecommunications businesses operating in Millicom’s enterprise risk management (ERM) an ongoing basis and in a quarterly larger, more established and mature framework is illustrated in the pyramid shown reassessment. Risks are identified and economies. The geographical diversification on the following page. Governance is analyzed in terms of inherent risk and of Millicom’s businesses mitigates, to a provided by the Board and oversight by the residual risk (after consideration of controls certain extent, country specific events or Audit Committee, in conjunction with the risk and mitigating factors), as well as risk trend. situations that impact risks the Group faces function. Risk processes are embedded as a whole. However, our businesses remain operationally both geographically (by Financial, operational, reputational and collectively exposed to the impact of regional country) and functionally (by business area). compliance aspects, of each risk principal and global macro-economic conditions, as Risk and control culture activities are led by are considered. well as industry developments. the CEO and Executive team, and supported Risk assessment and measurement by the Business Controls, Compliance, Risk, Millicom operates in the rapidly evolving Millicom’s risk assessment and measurement Corporate Responsibility and Internal Audit telecommunications business. The pace of is performed from both top-down and functions. technological change can have a significant bottom-up perspectives, and risks are impact on the demand for services, and the Millicom recognizes that risks in operating identified and managed from the level of ability of telecom operators to generate its businesses are influenced by both internal strategy and strategic direction through to sufficient returns on investment. This pace of and external factors, some of which are outside specific transactional processes. change is expected to continue as consumers our control, and some of which cannot be seek to improve their lifestyles with new and insured against. Risks are inherent in business higher quality products and services and Millicom accepts these risks to the extent wherever they may be. that opportunities for sufficient returns exist Millicom Annual Report 2016 31 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Risk management – continued Potential improper payments on behalf Any determination by law enforcement Evolution of Millicom’s Principal Risks, of the Guatemala joint venture authorities that the Group’s operations or related opportunities and Millicom’s On 21 October 2015, Millicom reported to law activities are not, or were not, in compliance approach to balancing risk with return are enforcement authorities in the United States with applicable laws could result in the set out on the following pages. and Sweden potential improper payments imposition of fines, interruptions of business, made on behalf of the Group’s joint venture loss of relationships and other legal or in Guatemala. equitable sanctions, which could disrupt the Group’s business and result in a material In May 2016, Millicom received notification adverse effect on the Group’s reputation, from the Swedish Public Prosecutor that its business, results of operations or financial preliminary investigation had been condition. discontinued on jurisdictional grounds. Other internal or government investigations As the investigation and its discussions with or legal or regulatory proceedings, including law enforcement authorities are ongoing, we lawsuits brought by private litigants, cannot predict the ultimate outcome of the including Millicom’s shareholders, may also matter, whether any remedial actions will be follow as a consequence. implemented or the impact on the Group’s business, financial condition or results of operations. Our risk management framework Governance Strategy and appetite Policy, roles and responsibilities Monitoring, escalation and reporting Process Risk treatment and contingency planning Risk identification and assessment Tools and technology Training and awareness Behavior, performance and reward Culture and compliance Assurance Millicom Annual Report 2016 32 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Risk management – continued Strategy and strategic direction The mobile telephony industry has evolved significantly in the past few years, and many choices emerged in terms of strategic direction. Failure to effectively position or reposition strategic direction could have a significant impact on shareholder value and long-term viability. Risk evolution Key opportunities Balancing risk with return Demand and willingness to pay for The wider availability of customer access points, Strategic decisions taken include the traditional Voice and SMS services is faster and more reliable technology, and rapid expansion into a wider range of datarapidly declining. growth in data content related products and centric products and services including services available through mobile and fixed strategic partnerships with content channels create unprecedented opportunities providers, and in Mobile Financial Services. for companies that control access points to provide more services, more often to customers. Consumers are increasingly able to High growth in demand for products and Quality and quantity of customer access choose the access channel to the services is resulting in more consumer income points are considered on an ongoing basis. products and services they want. being allocated to purchase products and Millicom uses a variety of tools including services through telco and cable operator customer engagement, local and regional channels. trends, and consumption patterns to identify and improve access channels. Competition continues to intensify An excess of operators in markets creates Millicom reviews its presence and offerings in and most markets are now saturated demand for merger and acquisition activity. each market in which it operates on an in terms of mobile operators. This enables operators to assess their operational ongoing basis, against its strategy and portfolios and provides opportunities to operational targets. reallocate capital and resources. Opportunities to acquire, merge or divest For example, following a long-term strategic businesses are carefully considered in light assessment, and through an understanding of market dynamics, portfolio balance and of local market dynamics, Millicom divested long-term value creation. its business in DRC. Millicom Annual Report 2016 33 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Risk management – continued  Competition and new business models Millicom has now evolved from an operator of traditional mobile businesses to a provider of a comprehensive range of services through fixed line, mobile, satellite and Mobile Financial Service platforms. Failure to setup business structures and models that facilitate efficient and effective operation could negatively impact competitive positions, and business value. Risk evolution Key opportunities Balancing risk with return Demand for new and a wider range Due to its close relationships with its customers, Choice of product and service and of products and services has created Millicom is ideally positioned to provide new development and delivery choices (internal, opportunity, but added complexity. products and services. strategic partnerships, acquisitions) are carefully considered with respect to fit with core business and business objectives, size of opportunity, expected payback, and ability to deliver. Development and supply of new and Speed, value of products, and quality of service Focus on efficiency and effectiveness of more services increases complexity. will improve customers’ lifestyles and lead to product quality and customer management increased consumption. processes including quality of service metrics. Alternate technologies are changing the We see significant potential in synergies from We take a customer centric approach to way in which customers consume combinations of cable, TV, and broadband services developing our portfolio of products. We communication, information and with our mobile operations in many of our markets actively seek partnerships with providers of entertainment services. (particularly LatAm and in Colombia). content and services to further enable our customers’ digital lifestyles. This allows rapid A rapid increase in data consumption by Further opportunities exist to partner with launch of new features, minimizes customers coupled with demand for over-the-top (OTT) content and service providers investment, and also sharing of risk with our increased speed and cheaper smartphones and use these opportunities to strengthen our business partners. is characterizing the industry. mobile customer base and increase ARPU. Need for a broader range of skillsets Increasing efficiency by matching skillsets with Millicom is putting effort into increasing of employees. business needs, to improve quality of products diversity among its employees and putting and services and customer experiences. in place inclusive practices to remain responsive to a diverse customer base. Business practice management Failure to implement strong standards of business practice management that incorporate the needs of all stakeholders, may result in incidents which have a significant and long-lasting negative impact on Millicom’s business, relationships with key stakeholders, and shareholder value. Risk evolution Key opportunities Balancing risk with return Investment community demands for In most of its countries, Millicom is one of the Millicom’s compliance and corporate appropriate business behavior and strong largest foreign investors in the market with a high responsibility programs drive aligned compliance and corporate responsibility degree of brand visibility. This position creates responsible business practices across our programs continues to increase. both the expectation and opportunity to footprint. We carry out regular controls of differentiate with strong corporate citizenship and policies, and review brand perception with corporate responsibility practices. These have a customer and employee surveys. direct impact on brand recognition and affinity. Shareholders are increasingly demanding Transparency in business practices builds Millicom publishes an annual Corporate greater transparency and disclosure on stakeholder trust and confidence. This widens Responsibility Report and Law Enforcement corporate governance, business practices the potential base of Millicom investors as Disclosure Report. We regularly engage and corporate responsibility. organizations continue to seek investments that with shareholders and other key provide their beneficiaries with the right balance stakeholders to understand their key areas between risk and return within a framework of of concern and focus. This engagement acceptable and transparent business practices. defines also Millicom’s external reporting and transparency efforts. Millicom Annual Report 2016 34 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Risk management – continued Political and regulatory risk Millicom’s markets experience political and regulatory volatility, with policy making and implementation and enforcement of rules and law often lacking in transparency and predictability. Avenues for recourse may be limited or ineffective. Millicom’s ability to achieve its business objectives may be negatively impacted by political, regulatory, judicial or civil factors in which Millicom has limited or no control over. Risk evolution Key opportunities Balancing risk with return Political instability. In 2016, our markets Positive political change can provide platforms to Millicom has a politically neutral approach remained relatively stable from a political improve the lives of our customers and stimulate with no political affiliations in any of the perspective, although risk levels remained economic growth that supports development of countries in which it operates. This policy unchanged. the telecommunications industry. increases independence and reduces risks related to change in political regimes. Government access to customer data Restrictions to network access or to prevent Millicom has internal processes and policies and restrictions to network access. services on our networks lead to financial losses to balance the need to respect local laws There is continued increasing pressure on and prevent us from providing our customers the and governments’ legitimate duty to governments to protect their citizens’ service they want. protect its citizens with our responsibility to safety and security. protect the privacy of our customers’ We work with governments to promote clear laws information and access to communications. and regulations that adopt necessary and We are members of Telecom Industry proportionate access to customer information and Dialogue and Global Network Initiative. which protect freedom of expression and privacy. Indirect taxation and regulatory Advance planning enables us to predict and We constantly monitor and review potential pressure through tariffs, taxes and service plan for potential changes in tariffs and changes in regulations. Efficiency programs penalties continued to increase in 2016. regulations. Dynamic pricing enables us to are sought in all aspects of our business to In Tanzania legislation was enacted adjust rapidly to the impact of rate changes. offset the impact of newly introduced or requiring us to list 25% of the shares expected changes in taxes and regulations. In addition, the experience we gain in more of our operation on the Dar es Salaam regulated and taxed markets enables us to stock exchange. transfer knowledge and best practice to less developed markets and thereby react quickly to changes. Anti-corruption compliance. All of our Ethical and responsible business practice builds We have a zero tolerance stand against countries of operation continue to rank as stakeholder trust. A compliance based culture bribery and corruption in all of our business high risk on the Transparency International adds reputational value, adds value and dealings. Through clear policies, risk Corruption Perceptions Index (CPI). confidence to stakeholders, and can be a awareness training and monitoring competitive advantage in many of our markets. activities, we ensure that all of our employees are aware of the risk to them as Strong compliance programs reduce individuals and to the Company and know vulnerability and risk of bribery and corruption how to act if faced with the risk. related issues. Our Global Compliance and Business Ethics team works closely to follow up on all concerns raised. We also work with our suppliers and other third parties to ensure they have clarity on our principles and policies in this area. Millicom Annual Report 2016 35 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Risk management – continued Macro-economic conditions Unfavorable macro-economic conditions (including local currency devaluation against the US dollar, inflation and other factors impacting consumer spending power) may reduce customer ARPU and Millicom’s dollar-based results and cash flows. Risk evolution Key opportunities Balancing risk with return Currency volatility against our US dollar We continue to seek opportunities to match the Our cash flow planning process involves reporting currency continued in many of currencies of our cost base with our revenue careful analysis of the timing and amounts our countries during 2016. generating currencies, as well as availability and of cash flows required to service Group level cost of hedging instruments. debt while balancing cash flow needs of each of our operations. As the economies in our countries develop, the availability of local financing at commercially The diverse geographical spread of the acceptable rates is increasing. countries and economies and currencies in which we generate revenues and cash flows Colombia has a relatively mature financial reduces our exposure to fluctuations in market with various financing and hedging individual countries or currencies. instruments available that could be used to manage currency fluctuations in the income We repatriate cash as early as possible. statement and cash flow, as our balance sheet is already fully hedged. Macro-economic risks. Fluctuating energy Demand for the increasingly diversified range of Operational efficiency management prices (in particular oil), currency volatility our services from higher value and target programs in place seek to reduce cost and and political uncertainty continued to add customers continues to increase, in particular deploy Capex in business areas offering to economic uncertainty. data and Mobile Financial Services. higher return on investments. In 2016, deteriorating security Many of the economies in our markets continue Our business model is focused on gaining environments in some of our Central to outgrow more developed economies, leading customer access points (particularly in American markets continued to impact to increased disposable income and consumer homes) as well as cross-selling and upselling GDP and economic growth in many of our demand for our products and services. more services to higher value customers. countries, all factors contributing to This model provides us with greater resilience cautious consumer spending. to economic conditions than on average in the telecom and cable industries. Political change in the US has increased uncertainty potentially impacting remittance We continue to develop opportunities in our levels from the US to our Central American B2B sector reducing dependence on countries. individual consumers. Millicom Annual Report 2016 36 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Risk management – continued Brand and reputation risk F ailure to have appropriate and effective protective and/or reactive measures to prevent, or limit exposure to brand and reputation damage could have a significant negative and long-lasting impact on Millicom’s business, relationships with key stakeholders, and shareholder value. Failure to leverage Millicom’s brands to capitalize on new opportunities, to develop consumer trust, and operate as a multi-service cross industry and continent provider may restrict growth of brand value. Risk evolution Key opportunities Balancing risk with return Brand equity. As Millicom expands the Opportunities exist to leverage from local to We directly associate brand equity with our range of products and services it delivers regional and/or global in many areas including public profile and see management of our under the Tigo brand family, the severity of cross and intercontinental cooperation with image with investors, customers, regulators impact of reputational and brand damage content partners, social media partners, and non-governmental organizations in our increases. suppliers and business partners (including markets as being closely correlated. international money transfer companies), as well as upsell new services. Reputation as a responsible company. As business leaders in our markets, we We operate a developed corporate As a Swedish listed company, expectations differentiate with our responsible business responsibility management system, with are high on our ethical standards and doing approach. We also have an opportunity to priorities defined based on local needs and business the right way. At the same time attract socially responsible investors with stakeholder concerns. Millicom operates in markets where positive performance in corporate responsibility. Our approach is to be transparent about legislation on social and environmental our corporate responsibility performance issues may be lagging and strong selfand proactively engage with external regulatory approaches are needed. stakeholders. Promoting child rights and child online In many of our markets legal frameworks to We continue to conduct child rights impact protection. The populations in our markets protect children in the digital world are underassessments across our operations using are young, making it important for us to developed. This gives us a significant the tool we jointly developed with UNICEF. understand how our business affects child opportunity to ignite dialogue and collaboration Our recruitment processes and supplier rights. Inherent risk of child labor at both with governments, our strategic partner UNICEF, Code of Conduct set requirements for ends of our value chain is high. The internet and other key stakeholders. minimum age of employment. can open huge opportunities for children. We want to lead our industry to better We conduct industry-leading child online understand and manage its impacts on the protection workshops with our partners, rights of children. governments and peers. Millicom Annual Report 2016 37 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Risk management – continued Robustness, reach and reliability of networks and IT systems Disruption in operation or quality, whether through technical issue, forced shutdown, interference (intentional or unintentional) or any other reason, directly impacts Millicom’s ability to provide service and generate revenue from its customers. Risk evolution Key opportunities Balancing risk with return Network quality and availability. To develop and maintain quality networks Our network investment strategy is Network availability and quality, now more that help to obtain and retain customers, balanced between capacity increase, than ever, are key factors in many and to build reputational strength in terms geographical coverage, technology customers’ choice of mobile operator. of reliability and consistency within the advancement and security and stability. markets in which we operate. We also deploy technologies such as Many of the countries in which we operate single-RAN and alternative energy solutions lack infrastructure or have infrastructure in We invest in alternative energies, such as solar to reduce our energy consumption and relatively poor condition. power and hybrid battery solutions. These solutions carbon emissions. provide a strong opportunity to reduce our Reliability of energy supply is a challenge as We have rigorous processes and controls environmental impact and have access to reliable some countries of operation lack any reliable around capital allocation that include power for our sites in remote “off‑grid” areas. electricity grid. This also increases our CO2 assessment of relative paybacks of specific emissions as we rely on diesel generators. investments across the Group. Data and information security. Competitive advantage can be obtained and Millicom’s network and IT system Information security and data protection maintained through robust information, security development processes include regular are increasingly placing a burden of processes and transparent communication to assessments of threats and vulnerabilities compliance and responsibility on customers on our privacy policies and how we to security breaches, and deployment of companies such as Millicom who retain, collect, retain and use their information to resources to mitigate those risks. handle and process sensitive customer provide our services. data. Protecting infrastructure and service Ensuring that we have contingency and business Millicom has established robust business continuity is a significant risk area. Similar continuity plans in place will assist us in rapid continuity and crisis management to protecting the life of our people, our response and remediation in the event any risk processes and plans according to operations are subject to many varying materialize. Our customers and other international (ISO) standards. Every market events including natural, environmental, stakeholders are depending on our services, has a professionally trained and certified theft and fraud, fire and terrorism, as well particularly in times of need. Business Continuity Management (BCM) as cybercrime. officer. Dependence on third party infrastructure The extent and scale of Millicom’s operations Millicom’s dependence on third party providers. Millicom is increasingly continues to increase through organic and providers is carefully managed from dependent on third parties in the operation acquisition growth. This provides Millicom with assessment, selection and renewal, of its businesses such as outsourced further opportunities to partner with selected including due diligence, contract length and providers of network (tower companies) and suppliers on a regional or global level, increase renewals, service level agreements, as well infrastructure management (managed purchasing power and leveraging efficiency in as end of term provisions, and ongoing service providers). the roll-out of common systems, platforms, monitoring of events and transactions that products and services across its footprint. may impact business continuity. Climate change risk and natural Our services are essential in connecting our As part of our BCM strategy, we have disasters. Extreme weather situations are customers to emergency services and each conduct risk mapping, impact analysis and becoming more common with climate other at times of natural disasters. Therefore, crisis response assessments, and each change and do affect some of our our ability to continue providing our services can operation has a disaster recovery plan. operations. Some countries are located in support communities in quickly responding to Climate change resilience is one of the risks areas prone to earthquakes, extreme emergency situations. in our risk map, and is fully integrated in our weather, drought or floods. These all may crisis response and BCM approach. affect our ability to provide our services. Millicom Annual Report 2016 38 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Risk management – continued Licenses to operate and spectrum Rights to use spectrum and licenses to operate are increasingly expensive and scarce. Risk evolution Key opportunities Balancing risk with return Scarcity of spectrum and licenses. Millicom is actively engaged in the financial Millicom’s license and spectrum planning Operating concessions are relatively easy to future of the countries and livelihoods of are critical components of its mobile renew, albeit at a price, although spectrum customers in its markets. Its voluntary businesses. Renewal/retention is often required for operations are limited contributions and value creation for individuals negotiated in initial allocation contracts resources, and becoming increasingly costly and organizations alike create natural and opportunities to acquire new spectrum to acquire and renew. Moreover, obligations partnerships and governmental organizations are carefully considered in terms of on operators attached to spectrum and with non-profit objectives. spectrum quality, fit with network needs, licenses are increasing, with social, and driven by customer demand. educational, economic and other political Millicom’s corporate responsibility objectives requirements being attached to operators. are compared on a regular basis to those of the individual countries in which we operate, and obligations attached to licenses and spectrums are carefully reviewed for compatibility with Millicom practices. Millicom Annual Report 2016 39 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Risk management – continued Executing/delivering on the strategy Failure or inability to formulate and implement the right business models, at the right time, and the right speed, with the right strategic partners and suppliers, and the right internal resources could significant impact Millicom’s ability to meet its strategic goals. Risk evolution Key opportunities Balancing risk with return The pace of roll-out of cable and 4G First mover advantage applies in terms of Millicom’s allocation of capital resources is networks continues to be a critical part of demands of customers for faster mobile data based on detailed strategy and business the speed in which Millicom can reconfigure speeds. cases for each business area, country and its revenue model. specific geogrpahies within countries. Increasingly the cable footprint and modernising the networks in place provide Roll-out and launch actions are supported significant opportunities for customer adds and with sales and marketing relating activities increases in ARPU, as well as related economies to drive customer penatration and take-=up of scale. of services. Progress on roll-out and customer acquisitions are carefully monitored with significant senior management involvement. Formulation of strong relationships with Partnering with suppliers with proven business Selection of key business partners is key suppliers and business partners models and rapid growth in services such as performed following comprehensive continues to be a focus in the goal of Netflix and Deezer strengthens Millicom’s ability business case analysis and procurement enabling implementation of the strategy to to maintain and enhance customer processes, including risk and compliance provide high quality innovative service and relationships. related assessments. digital content, to improve the experience Strong relationships with key infrastructure and Concentration risk is assessed regularly as of our customers. service providers increases efficiency and the well as contractural terms, which include business activities of those partners to be provisions for required service levels and aligned to Millicom’s way of doing business. business continuity. Internal resources are critical enablers in Millicom’s businesses in its key markets are Millicom’s internal resources are regularly execution of the strategy. This risk has consistently rated as top 10 places to work. This assessed in terms of quantity, skill-sets and decreased in 2016 with the full enhances the brand and reputation of Millicom experience internal resources, with configuration of the Executive not only as a service provider by an employer of adjustments carefully configured to match Management team , but remains significant choice. the strategy and future needs of the in day to day operational execution business. activities. Key positions require senior management approval and Executive Team appointments are made together with the Board of Directors. Millicom Annual Report 2016 40 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Risk management – continued Legislation, litigation and legal environments Millicom has limited control over or ability to affect the legislative, and judicial environments in the countries in which it operates. Penalties, fines, damages, restrictions, disqualifications or other legislative changes may be imposed impacting Millicom’s business (including anti-trust, information privacy, and financial regulation). Risk evolution Key opportunities Balancing risk with return Legislation and regulation in Millicom’s Legislation and regulation can increase certainty Millicom’s legal teams are constantly operating countries continues to increase in in operating models and provide opportunities monitoring and reviewing potential applicability and complexity and is expected to improve relationships with customers and changes in laws, and actively engaging with to increase further in areas such as other stakeholders. It can also create regulators and legislators. Programs information privacy, anti-trust, mobile opportunities in improving competition in programs are in place to reduce the risk of financial services, environmental protection, converging services such as Mobile Financial non-compliance. taxation and other financial regulations. Services. Judicial process and avenues for Proactive and early engagement with Our legal and external affairs teams recourse in many of our countries remain appropriate governmental organizations can regularly assess the availability and limited. Transparency in judicial result in positive contributions and strength of recourse measures both proceedings and tax administration improvements in judicial and tax process, in-country and through international continue to lag behind developed market reducing opacity and making for improved methods as and when issues arise. economies. business conditions that promote access to Our tax strategy includes management of digital communications. risks and uncertainties, particularly where legislation is either underdeveloped or lacking in clarity. Threat of litigation remains high in some High visibility is critical to the success of our Business partner relationships are carefully of our key markets (notably Colombia) as the businesses. Clearly communicated and enforced monitored. Litigation threats assessed on a size and visibility of our businesses can be standards of business practice and careful regular basis and managed on the merits of seen as a target for claims, even if those selection and due diligence on third parties each case. claims are spurious and lacking in merit. reduces opportunist type claims. Millicom Annual Report 2016 41 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Risk management – continued Risk management, internal control and assurance  illicom conducts its business in multiple countries with many employees, suppliers and other stakeholders undertaking M many different activities and roles. Deficiency or lack of effectively functioning risk management, internal control and assurance processes and procedures leading to inefficient, weak, or inadequate processes and procedures, resulting in value reduction or loss of opportunity. Risk evolution Key opportunities Balancing risk with return Business complexity, reconfiguration of A comprehensive and strong risk based control Millicom follows a risk based approach toward business models and the emergence of environment is an essential element of developing and implementing processes and alternate technologies and business developing the business, protecting and control activities. Developing high risk models are all increasing risk for enhancing value. businesses or parts of the business are subject operators. Expansion and broadening of to a higher level of skill support, and validation. Well positioned key controls can reduce cost, business activities has increased the need inefficiency and waste, as well as maximize Millicom uses a Group-wide maturity scale to for comprehensive and robust processes revenue and cash generation opportunities. benchmark and target control improvements, and procedures, with relevant control and and the allocation of resources. This approach verification activities. This trend is likely to Opportunities exist in Millicom to further is supported with a tone-at-the-top culture continue. develop and enhance processes and implement focused on responsible and profitable growth. increasingly sophisticated and standardized controls. Internal audit activites are determined using a risk-based approach and designed to ensure Assurance activities can identify opportunities a diverse spread of operational and to reduce risk and increase value through geograhical coverage. efficiency and sharing of best practice. Risk, control and assurance activities are overseen by the Audit Committee on behalf of the Board of Directors. Compliance with rules, regulations, policies and procedures The legal and regulatory environment, expanded complexity and scope of Millicom’s businesses, as well as the needs and demands of stakeholders are driving the need for comprehensive, effective and efficient compliance programs and procedures. Risk evolution Key opportunities Balancing risk with return Rules and regulations and related Rules and regulations can assist businesses with Millicom’s legal and compliance functions compliance risk is inherently increasing strong ethical and compliance cultures to work closely together to monitor changes in over time as rules and regulations on facilitate fair and open competition on level relevant rules and regulations, and take Millicom businesses evolve and and playing fields. action to develop and strengthen internal processes of enforcement by governments controls to manage compliance related risk. and regulators develop. Millicom’s governance and oversight Millicom’s approach and communication on Key compliance related risks are monitored over compliance activities has been doing business in the right way reach into the on a regular basis both at country and significantly strengthened in 2016 with the communities in which we operate and have the central level. The central compliance activities of the Compliance and Business ability to transform the way in which our function is supported by a network of Conduct Committee and hiring of the Chief business partners work with us. These benefits in-country complaicne officers. Ethics and Compliance Officer. directly flow to our reputation and positively impact our brand. Compliance risk assesments and action A strong compliance based culture reduces risk Key risks identified are raised to senior programs performed in 2016 have of penalties, fines or operational issues related management and at Board level for enhanced the compliance culture of the to non-compliance. discussion and decision making regarding Group and reduced the risk of nonallocation of resources to mitigate and compliance. manage compliance risks. A zero-tolerance appraoch has been taken toward compliance related matters. Millicom Annual Report 2016 42 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Risk management – continued Attracting, developing and retaining the right people Lack of required skills and experience, lack of engagement leading to underperformance and high turnover, lack of or misaligned incentives that encourage unwanted behavior. Risk evolution Key opportunities Balancing risk with return Stability of senior management. In recent Significant opportunities exist to stabilize senior Millicom uses a variety of internal and years, Millicom has experienced a high rate level turnover through a combination of improved external measures to align Group, of turnover of senior management in both talent management programs, including operating business and personal central functions and in its countries. compensation clearly aligned to strategic performance and achievement of objectives, training, and succession planning. objectives in its reward-based This risk has declined over 2016 with the compensation strategy. appointment of additional key positions in Strategy, Operations and Compliance. Millicom’s Board and its Committees take an active role in the recruitment of In addition, a reset of many of the key Executive Management, and oversee the human resource related initiatives around performance of the CEO. development, training and performance management are currently being deployed. Compensation transparency and The transparent setting of executive Millicom uses a mix of individual and alignment with shareholder returns. remuneration (including variable compensation) performance-based criteria linked to Remuneration of global senior managers is against a balanced longer term achievement individual locations against clearly an increasing focus of shareholders across a of strategic objectives more closely aligns measurable financial targets, and against wide variety of industries. Personal bonuses company performance and value creation to a peer group. and discretionary compensation in shareholder returns. Achievement hurdle levels for variable businesses which are experiencing remuneration are set levels that compliance issues or shareholder value incentivize above a high-level of decline, are driving a change in achievement against objectives. compensation plans increasingly linked to future performance and shareholder returns. Acquiring and retaining diverse talent. Diverse organizations have better financial While gender diversity among senior Millicom’s history and geographic locations returns, innovation potential, and highmanagers is increasing, this year our have resulted in a strongly diversified performance culture. activities have focused on diversity and workforce, a key contributor to its success inclusion trainings for executives. A We must be able to attract diverse people and and its future objectives. training program targeting all managers talent. As millennials increasingly want to work started in November in Guatemala and for a responsible company, Millicom is strongly will be rolled out elsewhere in 2017. positioned to attract talent from this Group. Millicom Annual Report 2016 43 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Risk management – continued Safety of our people The vast majority of Millicom employees live and work in emerging market economies. Many of these countries have security issues, including civil unrest, armed and organized criminal activity and, to a lesser extent, threat of terrorism. As a result, Millicom employees, in carrying out their daily jobs, are exposed to situations which may threaten their personal security. Risk evolution Key opportunities Balancing risk with return Personal security remains on ongoing The health, safety and security of our people is a Millicom manages the security, health, concern in many of our markets. foremost concern in the strategies adopted and safety and wellbeing of staff based on our implementation methods. international (OHSAS) standards, industry Millicom’s markets are often subject to issues best practice, as well as advice and support of personal security, including social and civil Opportunities exist to partner with governments from local authorities. unrest, threats from terrorism or organized and local organizations to protect the safety of crime. In addition, as a result of sometimes all people in the communities in which we With a central security and safety team, we poor infrastructure or undeveloped health operate. For example, in Guatemala we have empowered and trained operational and safety regulations and regimes, personal cooperate with local municipalities in providing teams to deliver compliance with the Group security can often be a significant issue for security monitoring systems, and in Colombia standards. Every market has a our people and those of the third parties we supply equipment and connectivity to law professionally trained and certified physical that support our activities. enforcement officials. security and health and safety officer. Rising levels of organized crime created All our third party partners are bound by significant instability in some of our markets contract to abide by Millicom Group in 2016, such as El Salvador and Chad. security and safety standards. Millicom Annual Report 2016 44 Latin America performance 46 Regional overview 47 Latin America in figures 48 Colombia 49 Guatemala 50 Paraguay review 51 Honduras 52 El Salvador 53 Bolivia 54 Costa Rica Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Latin America performance review Regional overview In 2016, Latin America contributed 86% of Millicom’s Group revenue. We are a market leading Telecom provider in Colombia, El Salvador, Honduras, Guatemala, Nicaragua, Costa Rica, Bolivia and Paraguay. Unlocking digital Latin America EBITDA in Latin America declined by -2.2% in In 2016, we had more than 32 million mobile the year, with the EBITDA margin of 38.5% customers of which 11.8 million are slightly higher than in 2015. smartphone data users – 2.2 million more than at the end of 2015. We have now Capital expenditure decreased by 17% in the Our operations are leaner full year to US$867 million, compared to launched 4G in all our Latin American US$1,045 million in 2015, again mainly and more efficient than ever.” markets and our high-ARPU 4G customer reflecting the tighter focus of the investment base grew four-fold during the year, to more program on core growth areas of HFC and than 3.4 million. Our fiber-optic cables pass 4G. Around 47% of this capital expenditure more than 8 million homes. Some 3.7 million was invested in the fixed network and 39% in people subscribe to our MFS services, and the mobile network. with 20 million smartphone subscribers, our smartphone penetration now sits at 62.5%. Operating cash flow in Latin America in the full year grew by 3.3% year-on-year to Growth of mobile data revenue in LatAm was US$1,197 million. driven by the increase in the number of smartphone data users, and in particular by Over the past year, market conditions have the rapid growth of our 4G customer base. remained challenging in several mobile markets, particularly in Colombia, where We saw continuing erosion of our Voice and macro-economic headwinds and continuing SMS revenues in the region, reflecting the competitive pressures accelerated a decline changing patterns of customer usage seen in in revenues. This significantly constrained our mobile markets globally. This constrained growth in the year, but we are holding to our growth of our total service revenue in LatAm principles of differentiation and customer in the year. experience to maintain a competitive Total revenue in LatAm declined by position while maintaining price discipline, -1.8% in 2016 on an organic basis, to driving operational and Capex efficiency US$5,352 million. Service revenue declined gains, and improving cash generation. by -0.2% year-on-year, to US$4,966 million. As a business, we are leaner and more The steeper fall in total revenue was due to efficient than ever. In the past year we have lower handset sales revenue, mainly forged new strategic partnerships with major reflecting the proportion of lower value Digital Lifestyle players, such as Netflix, handsets in the mix, and fewer direct Deezer and Microsoft to give our customers handset sales. an even better service across multiple Delivering on our strategy, mobile data platforms. revenue grew organically by 22.7% to We believe Latin America is on the cusp of a US$1,221 million. Voice and SMS service digital explosion, which will give us revenue fell by 15.2% to US$1,727 million. tremendous new opportunities, and to We have increased investment in 4G maximize these opportunities, we focus on and cable roll-outs and a focused IT four key objectives: we invest in our network; transformation. Total cable service revenue we innovate digital services for our grew by 7.4% year-on-year, with fixed customers; we champion digital inclusion and B2B revenue increasing by 3.6% and cable responsibility; and we transform our business home revenue growing by 9.7% organically and the communities where we operate. in the year. Millicom Annual Report 2016 46 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Latin America performance review – continued Investment Digital inclusion and responsibility Transformation We are building the digital infrastructure, It is not just about digital highways and This immense transformation to a digital home passes, network and data centers vehicles and innovative pricing and payment future in our societies also demands a across all our countries. In our mobile methods. It is also about digitally educating transformation of us, the players, who are markets, we now reach 40% 4G population consumers about the benefits of the internet, here to provide the infrastructure upon which coverage. At the same time we are also as well as supporting knowledge building. digital societies and economies will be built. focused on operational leverage, For instance, we have installed Telecentros or There is no digital society or digital future reconfiguring our cost base to make our digital training centers in Paraguay targeted without us operators. For all this, we must not operations more efficient. at future internet users. The project saw the forget that unlocking The Digital Lifestyle™ in Innovation deployment of 170 shipping containers, fully Latin America requires a consolidated effort Driving digital adoption requires an equipped with IT services and internet, to from all sectors; from the government and innovative approach. In El Salvador, for rural schools across the country. This has regulatory bodies to the private sector, digital example, we have launched the “All you can reached thousands of teachers and pupils, industry and society itself. App”. This is a totally new way of allowing who will form a new generation of digitallymobile data consumption in a prepaid savvy users. environment. We know that our customers As an industry, we need to do more of this. don’t really “buy” or “value” megabytes or And do more to ensure responsible digital “bits”, so we have simply given them behavior through child online protection unlimited use of the App or Apps of their efforts. And do more on transparency in data choice, for a limited time and a fixed price. information – so that consumers increasingly This is both an innovative approach and trust our industry as the highway towards a innovative pricing. digital economy. Innovation helps drive digital demand by enhancing our consumers’ access to digital destinations. Latin America in figures KPI (’000) FY 2016 FY 2015 YOY change %1 Mobile customers 32,004 32,585 (1.8) Of which mobile data customers 13,719 12,038 14.0 Of which 4G customers 3,432 856 300.9 Total homes passed 8,119 7,632 6.4 HFC homes passed 7,152 6,375 12.2 Cable – HFC RGU 3,694 3,244 13.9 Financial FY 2016 FY 2015 YOY change %1 Mobile ARPU (US$) 8.3 9.2 (6.0) Mobile data ARPU (US$) 8.2 7.9 8.8 Residential cable ARPU (US$) 26.9 27.2 6.7 Total revenue (US$m) 5,352 5,740 (1.8) Service revenue (US$m) 4,966 5,237 (0.2) Of which Mobile data service revenue (US$m) 1,221 1,035 22.7 Of which cable service revenue (US$m) 1,572 1,578 7.4 EBITDA (US$m) 2,063 2,204 (2.2) EBITDA margin (%) 38.5 38.4 0.2pt OCF2 (US$m) 1,197 1,158 3.3 1 YOY change % represents organic growth. See Alternative Performance Measures (“APMs”) page 197. 2 Capex excludes spectrum and license costs. Millicom Annual Report 2016 47 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Latin America performance review – continued Colombia In our largest market, Colombia, the economy has been sluggish in 2016, whilst competition has intensified in the Cable revenue also increased, as we continued the roll-out of our network. Customer connections included a substantial mobile market. Despite this, TigoUne has number of existing copper customers made solid progress. migrating to HFC as their homes were passed, as well as gaining new customers. We continued with our strong competitive position and strengthened our operational The growth in the number of double and efficiencies despite these more difficult triple-play customers continued, a market conditions. Our mobile data momentum fuelled by our partnership with Cable revenue increased leadership allowed us to partially offset the Netflix, offering content to customers on drop in mobile legacy service revenues and triple-play plans. as we maintained the the aggressive price competition in the Our B2B services support many of the roll-out of our network.” pre-paid mobile market. multinationals that use Colombia as their More than one-third of our customers in hub for the region. Colombia are now mobile data users thanks As a significant employer in the country, we to growing smartphone penetration, work with the Colombian government on a combined with innovative and effective range of digital and corporate responsibility mobile data offers. We have also seen strong initiatives, including digital inclusion and growth in our 4G customers and our network smart city projects. now covers more than half the entire population (47 million). FY 2016 FY 2015 YOY change %1 Mobile customers (’000) 7,764 8,926 (13.0) Total revenue (US$m) 1,717 1,982 (3.2) Service revenue (US$m) 1,580 1,776 (0.5) EBITDA (US$m) 461 545 (5.2) EBITDA margin (%) 26.9 27.5 (0.6pt) 1 YOY change % represents organic growth. See Alternative Performance Measures (“APMs”) page 197. Supplier capacity building To promote responsible business practice more widely and to protect our reputation, we demand that our suppliers apply the same high ethical standards in their operations as we do. Following initial assessments of responsible business management of strategic suppliers in Colombia with EcoVadis, TigoUne engaged in 2016 with two suppliers to develop detailed improvement plans to address some concerns raised in the assessment. Both suppliers were able to address these and increase their EcoVadis sustainability performance ratings.  ead more about our responsible R supply chain management approach and EcoVadis assessments on page 78 Millicom Annual Report 2016 48 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Latin America performance review – continued Guatemala over 37% ahead of the previous year which, importantly, also contributed to EBITDA growth. We continue to invest in cable and and effective ways for customers to connect with our brand, such as new express support centers and Tigo stores. today we have the largest HFC network in the Our MFS services grew 43.1% focused mainly country. In 2016, the launch of Tigo Play and on payment services and reaching more than the introduction of our Netflix-based 500,000 monthly users. Our B2B team promotion helped to support the multi-screen continued to create new services for clients, habits of our customers. The number of including enhanced cloud and ICT solutions. homes passed increased by 12.6% in 2016. The team held its third annual Tigo Business Incoming international traffic has continued Mobile data growth to decline, following a common trend across all Forum in September 2016 with lively, informed debates regarding m-Commerce development. remained solid, with the markets and, as a result, service revenues showed a shortfall of -1.7%. Overall, the Company has been able to new 4G services launched maintain good profitability and cash Tigo Guatemala has focused on enhancing during the year.” customer experience through initiatives such generation, with rigorous capital management. It continues to be focused on as launching digital self-service channels, on developing and retaining its talent, also Capex investments to achieve and maintain winning a Great Places to Work award. the best data network and providing easy Overall, the business delivered solid results in 2016, with mobile data growth FY 2016 FY 2015 YOY change %1 and strong coverage expansion in 4G services. Mobile customers (’000) 9,468 8,798 7.6 Total revenue (US$m) 1,284 1,306 (2.2) Our operation in Guatemala is leading the way Service revenue (US$m) 1,143 1,156 (1.7) with mobile data usage, reaching revenue EBITDA (US$m) 631 651 (3.7) growth in this category of 35% ahead of the previous year. The Home business grew by EBITDA margin (%) 49.2 49.9 (0.7pt) 1 YOY change % represents organic growth. See Alternative Performance Measures (“APMs”) page 197. Mobile monitoring GSMA children’s use of mobile devices system for schools Research into how children use mobile • 90% of children obtain their first devices and internet is rare in emerging smartphone between the ages of TIGO Guatemala through FUNDACION markets. In 2016, Tigo published results of 8 and 15 TIGO, in partnership with the Ministry of research conducted with GSMA, the Education, has created an online platform to • 65% of parents said that keeping in international mobile trade association, on monitor absentee rates of children in specific contact with their children and possible the use of mobile phones by children in schools or regions. Teachers are given mobile emergencies are the main reason they Honduras. Results echo findings in Europe phones through which they record daily provide their children with phones and feedback from children confirms some attendance of students. Information is sent of the concerns of their parents. • 37% of parents have not discussed with to a centralized database that allows for their children rules of usage of their analysis of the data. phones, and though parental controls are The analysis can be accessed by considered important, they are not principals, heads of school districts and widely used (57% do not use parental the Ministry of Education. Through this controls) tool the ministry can follow absenteeism, • 67% of children make friends on social and can gain a better understanding of media with people they do not know in why the children are not in class. This real life, and 43% have public profiles on helps more effective action to reach the social media Ministry’s school attendance goals. For 2017, the aim is to have 273 schools  ead more about our work in child R included in the program, monitoring online protection see pages 64-66 around 41,000 children’s attendance. and here R  ead more about our child online protection and digital inclusion programs see pages 64, 80-83 Millicom Annual Report 2016 49 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Latin America performance review – continued Paraguay Investing in success Millicom is deploying and modernizing Growth and foreign exchange have been volatile due to the country’s dependence With its new data center, both fixed and mobile networks to fulfill the growing demand from Paraguayans on soya bean exports and strong Tigo Business Paraguay to connect to the internet. commercial ties with its neighboring country Brazil. will expand into business In 2016, Tigo Paraguay launched its first We continued to improve our business services such as co-location 4G services in the country, a new state of the art data center and acquired performance, with 4.6% organic service and cloud solutions to TV Cable Paraná , a cable platform in revenue growth. Continuing 4G momentum, following its launch in April this year, drove support its business clients” Ciudad del Este, Paraguay’s second largest city. These inv estments further strong growth in data usage, more than extend our cable footprint and grow our offsetting the decline in voice and SMS customer base across both consumer revenues. and business segments. The decrease in the total customer base mainly reflected the loss of very low ARPU pre-pay customers acquired during previous promotions, and had no impact on revenue growth. The cable network build-out continued on track, with network penetration and higher RGU delivering strong cable revenue growth. FY 2016 FY 2015 YOY change %1 EBITDA in Paraguay increased by 3.6% on MFS revenue growth (decline) (%) (2.2) an organic basis and the EBITDA margin Mobile customers (’000) 3,635 3,936 (7.6) expanded, reflecting a strong focus on Total revenue (US$m) 623 673 1.3 execution, both above and below the line. Service revenue (US$m) 583 610 4.6 In July, we launched a downloadable App EBITDA (US$m) 289 305 3.6 for smartphones to give our customers EBITDA margin (%) 46.4 45.3 1.0pt comprehensive access to our hugely popular 1 YOY change % represents organic growth. See Alternative Performance Measures (“APMs”) page 197.. Latin American, 24/7 sports channel. Users of Tigo’s Mobile Money wallet have grown 8.7% since last year and subscribers to Program for our app grew at more than 5% per month. high potential women Tigo Business Paraguay’s first UPTIME Tier 3 To improve gender diversity among senior certified data center was awarded “Best management in Paraguay, the country Modular Implementation” by Data Center management team created a dedicated Dynamics (DCD), a specialist data center leadership program for high potential magazine with a global reach. women in the organization to help build As part of our global commitment to the internal talent pool and empower empowering women, we signed the GSMA’s more women to move to senior roles. Connected Women Commitment Initiative in Since 2015, 51 women have participated September – the first operator in Latin in the program, which seeks to develop America to do so. Our goal is to increase the and promote leadership skills. In this proportion of women using mobile internet program candidates have attended and our Tigo Money savings products. workshops on different topics, such as challenging stereotypes, increasing self-awareness, harnessing leadership skills, and work-life balance. R  ead more about our approach to promoting gender diversity across our Group on pages 74-75 Millicom Annual Report 2016 50 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Latin America performance review – continued Honduras Honduras continues to be a market full of opportunities. Tigo is the number one mobile operator and the second largest Honduras has an active MFS market which has continued to grow revenues as well as wallet and app users. MFS will also support a cable and TV broadband provider in the new agreement with the World Food country. This year Tigo Honduras Program to more efficiently deliver economic celebrated its 20th anniversary. aid for more than 116,000 families within the country. Tigo Star had a 25.6% growth in revenues along with an increase of approximately 15% Tigo has been particularly active in in its Home Passes. The Smartphone Data important social activities such as child We will continue to invest, User base went up 33.6% and 4G online protection. In October, we hosted First Smartphone Users reached a 784% increase Lady of Honduras Ana Garcia de Hernandez, grow and collaborate to versus last year. Plan International, the Lady Lee Foundation, develop the sector, bring The market is seeing a strong shift in user the GSMA, ICMEC and other leading organizations to jointly promote child online new technology and enhance habits as more consumers migrate to online protection in a summit that was widely digital opportunities for and on demand content. reported on national TV. our customers and the The B2B Market has had moderate activity. Some key segments such as Government Also in October, Tigo volunteers completed community.” projects have been impacted by reduced their second term of school visits across the country to promote awareness of funding or cancellations, despite a positive cyberbullying amongst young students, outlook in macro-economic figures. under the campaign hashtag Great progress was made in rolling out the #NoAlCyberbullying. fixed network, reaching more new cities and home passes. FY 2016 FY 2015 YOY change %1 Mobile customers (’000) 4,848 4,846 0.0 Total revenue (US$m) 609 649 (2.5) Service revenue (US$m) 585 617 (1.3) EBITDA (US$m) 256 274 (2.6) EBITDA margin (%) 42.1 42.2 (0.1pt) 1 YOY change % represents organic growth. See Alternative Performance Measures (“APMs”) page 197. La Fábrica Smart Tigo launched “La Fábrica Smart”, an innovation contest and the first of its kind in Honduras, where university students compete in the development of new technology solutions and services. In its first edition, in 2014, participants were challenged to develop mobile apps related to education, environment, and health. The winning mobile apps were made available in Google Play and iOS stores. Now in its third year, contestants in 2016 were challenged to construct drones with the aim of promoting the development of robotics and automation in the country. Millicom Annual Report 2016 51 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Latin America performance review – continued El Salvador Mobile data growth (%) FY 2016 12.6 FY 2015 YOY change %1 El Salvador has delivered solid results. Home revenue growth (%) 7.7 The operation has been challenged by Mobile customers (’000) 3,213 2,958 8.6 weak economic conditions and a Total revenue (US$m) 426 450 (5.3) regulatory and political landscape that Service revenue (US$m) 400 420 (4.7) included mandatory signal blocking since April 2016 around prisons and some EBITDA (US$m) 148 169 (12.3) urban areas. EBITDA margin (%) 34.7 37.5 (2.8pt) 1 YOY change % represents organic growth. See Alternative Performance Measures (“APMs”) page 197. Alongside the introduction of a number of additional security taxes, we have seen encouraging growth in the number of El Salvador’s 4G roll out smartphones and mobile data users, delivering 12.6% on data revenues. Tigo El Salvador has begun the roll out of 4G LTE technology around the country. We now have 3.2 million mobile subscribers in the country, 8.6% up compared to 2015. The new infrastructure investment underlines Tigo’s commitment to meet In our Home business, we have connected growing demand in El Salvador for mobile 9.3% more homes than we did in 2015. data, new Apps and online services. Cable & Digital revenue is up 6.7% compared to 2015. Home revenue Read more here is up 7.7% compared to 2015. We also continue to improve operating efficiency alongside investing in improving the network infrastructure and we announced that 4G will be rolled out to customers in El Salvador during 2017. Building a better future for home and at school Tigo El Salvador has taken a lead in Karla Rivas, Tigo El Salvador Corporate developing two ground-breaking employee Responsibility Director, says: “The El Salvador has the volunteering programs. volunteering program has improved the workplace environment, with better opportunity to be a strong Our “Adopt a School” project consists of rebuilding or refurbishing a school, with integrated, more motivated and happier digital force in Latin America employees”. Tigo employees undertaking volunteering and we want to progress activities to make the schools operational. Throughout the three months that we ran the program in 2016, 2,075 volunteering connectivity and enable We also signed a new memorandum of understanding with TECHO and SolucionES hours have been recorded, seven schools greater access to the were helped and four houses built. to benefit the Tiguapa Norte community, internet.” by building eight houses and the refurbishing of a digital center. The digital center will serve children and offer them ICT programs and courses. Tigo will contribute to the project both financially and with volunteering activities. Millicom Annual Report 2016 52 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Latin America performance review – continued Bolivia The Home business maintains double digit growth of 31% and has positioned itself as the main cable provider in Bolivia. The B2B Mobile money and banks in partnership Fixed business tripled its customer base, reaching more than 900 customers, delivering Bolivia has launched new online banking revenue growth of 25.6%. Cable & Digital services enabling customers to transfer Our operation delivered a strong 2016, revenue growth was 29%. Tigo Money is and receive money from a wider banking with overall service revenues 3% ahead of proving a huge success and this year we have community via Tigo Money, simplifying the previous year. opened the ecosystem to enable customers their transactions and saving time. to use the service across providers. Mobile Data revenue increased 32.9% on the Read more here previous year, driven mainly by the roll-out of EBITDA increased by 9% on an organic basis, our 4G network, with around 43% of reflecting a significant reduction in operating smartphone data users already using our 4G costs as well as strong service revenue growth services. Mobile Data ARPU increased 19%. in our key revenue streams: Data, Fixed and MFS. FY 2016 FY 2015 YOY change %1 Mobile customers (’000) 3,076 3,121 (1.4) The roll-out of 4G in Bolivia Total revenue (US$m) 542 531 2.1 Service revenue (US$m) 525 511 2.7 is generating significantly EBITDA (US$m) 214 197 9.0 increasing data traffic.” EBITDA margin (%) 39.5 37.0 2.5pt 1 YOY change % represents organic growth. See Alternative Performance Measures (“APMs”) page 197. Digital classrooms to enable children with disabilities to communicate In Bolivia, as part of our wider program to work with people with disabilities, we have developed a “Digital Classrooms” project. We have opened 20 classrooms specifically designed for children with disabilities to communicate and learn through digital tools. The room will allow them to accelerate their social integration by having equal access to and benefits of digital technology. Today we have over 2,000 beneficiaries of the Digital Classroom program. Tigo Bolivia is also leading the way in building inclusive operations, with its customer service employees undertaking training in sign language. Millicom Annual Report 2016 53 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Latin America performance review – continued Costa Rica Tigo maintains a solid position as Costa Rica’s leading PayTV operator where our DTH product grew by 40% to more than Helping our customers interact easily with the brand and driving efficiencies were key goals in 2016 and new services such as a 50,000 subscribers. self-service app and paperless sales processes are continuing to orientate the business in Revenue in the business segment grew by this direction. 5.4% with EBITDA margins remaining strong at 43%. Tigo Costa Rica is pioneering an internal poverty assistance program which We connected 250,000 homes, with 610,000 identifies employees with socio-economic passed. Helping our customers vulnerabilities and creates strategies to assist This year the focus has been on accelerating them. To date 175 people were engaged, and interact easily with the brand digital TV and DTH and continuing to grow 37 were supported in gaining a formal high and driving efficiencies were broadband penetration, with more customers school qualification. buying home bundles. key goals in 2016.” FY 2016 FY 2015 YOY change %1 Mobile customers (’000) N/A N/A Total revenue (US$m) 153 151 3.1 Service revenue (US$m) 151 150 2.8 EBITDA (US$m) 58 58 1.5 EBITDA margin (%) 37.7 38.3 (0.6pt) 1 YOY change % represents organic growth. See Alternative Performance Measures (“APMs”) page 197. Promoting diversity In 2016, Tigo Costa Rica joined a number of leading companies in the country to sign the Declaration of San Jose, in which we commit to ensuring that we have a workspace free of discrimination towards the LBGTI community. Our human resources department was given a training session by the NGO AED with support from the Canadian Embassy on best practices. A toolkit to help the recruitment process of LGBTI individuals has also been produced and is in use.  ead more about our work on R diversity see pages 74-75 Creador del Cambio Digital In Costa Rica, Tigo launched the program The winning entrepreneurs have support “Creador del Cambio Digital” (Tigo Digital from the University of Costa Rica to Changemaker). A program developed implement their projects. jointly with a local financial institution (Coopeservidores) that invites people to  ead more about our work on social R present ideas on how digital tools can solve investment see pages 80-83 social and environmental challenges. Millicom Annual Report 2016 54 Africa performance 56 Regional overview review 56 Africa in figures 58 Tanzania 58 Chad 59 Other markets Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Africa performance review Regional overview In Africa, we operate in five countries where we capture This strong performance was fueled by an increase in mobile data revenues and usage. almost 14% of Millicom’s annual revenue. Following the We added 1.4m mobile data users in the disposal of our Democratic Republic of Congo market in year, bringing the total to 6.9m. early 2016, these countries are Tanzania, Chad, Ghana, Our burgeoning B2B service, has also driven growth. We have signed some significant Rwanda and Senegal. We see our role as delivering contracts with clients including large connectivity and access. Mobile operators are even more corporations, embassies and governments seeking to digitize their services. We have important here than in other parts of the world because reinvigorated our dedicated B2B routes to fixed line penetration is very low. market, and expanded our channel capacity in account management and sales agents We serve some 25.4 million customers During the course of 2016, Africa has to talk to B2B customers. We have seen and our core strategy revolves around delivered on its strategy to accelerate growth. excellent results and a 40% growth year on the principles of accelerating and We remain focused on improving the year. During the year we have also invested growing mobile data, B2B and fintech. all-round performance of our African in data centers in Senegal and Chad to operations, growing service revenue, service Tigo’s internal needs and those of expanding EBITDA margins, controlling external business clients seeking secure capital expenditure and delivering positive robust data services. operating cash flow (EBITDA less capital expenditure). African EBITDA of MFS was also a major contributor to growth, US$258 million increased by 47%, on with the number of subscribers at eight million revenue of US$896 million, up 14%. – up 18.4% on last year. During the first half of 2016, we focused on transforming the cost base of all the African Africa in figures operations, ensuring that we have an efficient, sustainable operational platform with the right people, the right products and the right channels working effectively KPI (’000) FY 2016 FY 2015 YOY change %1 to drive revenue. Mobile customers 25,407 30,002 (15.3) In previous years, we have made significant Of which: investments in the network to grow coverage Chad 3,132 2,981 5.1 and improve quality and speed, with a clear DRC -– 5,321 (100.0) focus on the data business. This year, we Ghana 3,933 4,086 (3.8) aimed to capitalize on our investments and Rwanda 2,966 2,775 6.9 focus on maximizing utilization of the network and growing our customer base. Senegal 3,646 3,039 20.0 Therefore our capital investment was lower in Tanzania 10,743 10,430 3.0 2016 than in previous years. Zantel (Tanzania) 988 1,371 (28.0) MFS customers 8,078 7,560 6.9 Our work empowering people and promoting social and financial inclusion is particularly relevant in Africa. For example, all of Financial FY 2016 FY 2015 YOY change %1 Millicom’s operations in Africa led the way in Mobile ARPU (US$) 2.5 2.7 (0.5) committing to the GSMA’s Connected MFS ARPU (US$) 1.1 1.2 3.4 Women Commitment Initiative. As part of the commitment, the Africa operations are Total revenue (US$m) 896 829 14.3 working to increase the proportion of their Service revenue (US$m) 889 816 15.2 female customers using services such as EBITDA (US$m) 258 184 47.2 Mobile Money. Tigo Chad has also EBITDA margin (%) 28.7 22.1 6.6pt committed to increase the proportion of Capex2 (US$m) 160 218 (27.2) female customers using mobile internet. 1 YOY change % represents organic growth. See Alternative Performance Measures (“APMs”) page 197. 2 Capex excludes spectrum and license costs. Millicom Annual Report 2016 56 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Africa performance review – continued Child birth registration: Tigo Ghana featured at UN General Assembly UNICEF estimate that more than 50 million In Tanzania only 13% of children under Following this success, the program has children are born into invisibility each year five years own a birth certificate. That is why been replicated in other countries and this and that 230 million children under the age in Tanzania, Tigo partnered with year Tigo, UNICEF, Ghana and the Births of five have not been officially registered. The Registration Insolvency and Trusteeship and Deaths Registry were recognized at the This is despite numerous international Agency (RITA) and UNICEF to create and United Nations General Assembly. The app treaties calling for the rights of such children develop a mobile birth registration system was featured in a video and presentation to be recognized. which aims to scale up birth registration for to the audience, which included Ghana’s young children. The application that Tigo former president, John Dramani Mahama. In addition to establishing a child’s identity, developed and deployed is designed to work birth registration acts as an enabler for a  ead more about our work on child R with even the most basic feature phones. multitude of development outcomes protection on pages 64-66 including access to healthcare, education Since the first launch in the Mbeya region, and social protection. Mobile technology the program has been extended to four Watch our work on child birth has an increasingly important role to play other regions, designed further new android registration here in speeding up progress with birth App functionality and has issued birth registration and the provision of unique certificates to over 780,000 children under identities to the most underserved, five years. Plans are underway to reach ten especially in sub-Saharan Africa. regions in Tanzania. Millicom Annual Report 2016 57 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Africa performance review – continued Tanzania Chad Tanzania is our biggest market where Chad had a good performance this year. Tigo is the market leader in terms of Tigo now has a 4G network in Revenue grew by 10.1% year on year. subscribers. Millicom-owned Zantel is also every region of Tanzania.” The subscriber base increased slightly the leading brand in Zanzibar. Our main on last year by 5% to reach over 3 million focus this year has been to improve the subscribers and mobile data continued data experience for our customers and to experience strong momentum through to enhance our network, providing faster the extension of 4G to the whole of and better ways of connecting and Connecting education N’Djamena. EBITDA also grew by 71%. accessing mobile data. As part of our commitment to digital In 2016, we delivered on our objective of Tigo has a total of 11.7 million customers. inclusion and enabling a more connected tapping into opportunities in the B2B sector Tigo now has a 4G network in every region of world, Tigo Tanzania donated computers to and launched new B2B services. We also the country, the first operator to do so, giving secondary schools in Masasi, Tandahimba opened Chad’s first state-of-the-art data customers greater speed and online access. and Sino. These computers will provide center, part of our strategy of continued students with online access, enabling investment and expansion of infrastructure Tigo continued to encourage smartphone them to learn more about search tools, in the region. To ensure a high quality, safe penetration, offering attractive promotions technology, and online security. environment for our people we also moved for data users such as WhatsApp and In addition we supplied vital laboratory to a new HQ building in N’Djamena. YouTube bundles. equipment to Chato Secondary School in This year we also continued to ensure a Tigo Tanzania is a leader in MFS and in 2016 Geita region. quality, robust network for all our customers. became the first operator in the world to offer interoperability with all other major operators. In support of the government’s effort to Indeed, a recent report by the World Bank offset the existing countrywide shortage named Tanzania as a world leader in Mobile of desks in primary schools, we also Financial Services and Tigo Tanzania’s mobile donated 1,250 desks countrywide. transfer service was accredited for being a R  ead more about our large part of this accomplishment. social investment projects Following the acquisition of an 85% stake in on pages 80-83 Zantel in 2015, our market share has grown strongly in Zanzibar. Our customers have benefited from the roll-out of high-speed 4G services and brand strength has improved in 2016, we opened along with greater cost efficiencies. It has Chad’s first state-of-the-art also delivered a new income stream from wholesale data delivery. data center.” MFS boosts digital trade In Chad, most people contribute to at least Tigo Paare has been highly successful and one “Paare” or savings group. To meet the is now supporting over 53,000 groups needs of savings groups across the country including farmers, such as Chad’s cotton and especially those living in rural areas, we cooperatives, and healthcare mutual funds. have designed Tigo Paare. In particular, the solution is supporting Tigo Paare helps groups send cash to family women entrepreneurs such as the Women’s members, purchase products and trade Association of Fish Sellers through secure digitally. It has quickly become a useful membership payment to the association. platform for connecting large groups with More than 600 members have benefited distant or roaming members. from advice and financial training. Millicom Annual Report 2016 58 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Africa performance review – continued Other markets Payment solution for agriculture to improve Revenue grew 12% in our other markets, In Ghana, we pioneered the industry’s Ghana, Rwanda and Senegal, where we first product and services in international tea farmers’ lives continued to focus on growing our Buy-Airtime. Tigo Rwanda launched the “Tigo payment customer base, especially data customers solution for agriculture” platform increasing Across all the markets our strategy to tap to ensure we fully utilize our networks. the financial and digital inclusion of over into the high potential B2B market is also We registered more than 645,000 new delivering good results. In Ghana, for 10,000 tea farmers in two tea plantations mobile customers in these markets. We have example, we launched roadshows to assist located in Mulindin and Rusizi district. focused on attracting higher value customers small and medium-sized businesses with The platform simplifies and improves the with dedicated services and this has delivered their development. communication and banking arrangements good growth in mobile data users, up 24%. of the local farmers. Tigo is also supporting In Senegal, we are supporting the In Rwanda, we are democratizing access government in its plan to transform the the farmers to discover further benefits of to data and services by cutting data fees country into a hub of information and internet-enabled devices. to allow roaming for internet users and communication technologies with another Watch more on the project here introducing the option to pay for smartphones state-of-the-art data center. in installments. Tigo digital literacy bus Tigo Senegal organized a “digital bus” A fruit trader in Mbour in the east of the which traveled through the country to give country said: “I thank Tigo for allowing me people the opportunity to learn how to to open my first Facebook account. The use the internet. Access to the bus is free Tigo agent showed me how it worked and and a qualified team advises visitors on helped me to post my first picture. I have how to use the internet and discover the used this opportunity to buy a smartphone.” opportunities of the digital world. More than 25,000 people visited the bus and got connected for free to the internet via Tigo network. Millicom Annual Report 2016 59 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Corporate responsibility performance review This section sets out our performance 61 62 Growing responsibly and with purpose Privacy and freedom of expression against our 2016 targets, key initiatives 64 Child rights and online protection 67 Acting responsibly: anti-corruption compliance of 2016 in greater detail and long-term 70 Reducing our environmental footprint objectives for our most important eight 74 Diversity 76 Taking care of our people: health and safety corporate responsibility topics. 78 Responsible supply chain management 80 Social investment 84 Awards and performance in 2016 85 About the CR performance section 86 Independent limited assurance report Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Growing responsibly and with purpose Our mission at Millicom is not just to lead the adoption of The Digital Lifestyle™ in our markets. It is also essential that we grow responsibly and with purpose. Our corporate responsibility (CR) strategy and work are central to delivering our vision of empowering our customers and employees to advance in life and find joy. Five year objectives What we did in 2016 Read more Measure the success and • Published our first integrated report to further clarify how CR strategy is S ee key performance health of our company embedded in our daily decision making indicators as outlined beyond financials • Expanded the scope of our data collection in environmental management under each topic, from and diversity and across our subsidiaries in Colombia and Zantel in Tanzania page 62 onwards. Promote, protect and • Finalized materiality assessments with local country stakeholders, and F ind out more about our strengthen our reputation published country fact sheets in each market materiality process on how • Continued engagement with our investors, partners, governments and we manage our CR on page other key stakeholders on specific topics; including becoming observers of 12. the Global Network Initiative and ESG visit in Colombia  ur progress explained O throughout this section Demonstrate thought • Leadership in child online protection, with multi-stakeholder workshops, See child rights and online leadership in areas that awareness and training programs to children, parents and teachers protection section on page link to business success • Collaborated with UNICEF to create “mobile operators child rights impact 64 . assessment tool” to be used across the industry See the diversity section • First operator in Africa and LatAm to set targets to increase women in our on page 74. customer base within the GSMA’s Connected Women initiative Our eight most important CR topics 1. Privacy and 2. Child rights 3. Acting 4. Reducing our 5. Diversity 6. Taking care 7. Responsible 8. Social freedom of and online responsibly: environmental of our people: supply chain investment expression protection anti-corruption footprint health and safety management compliance TV’S AND PHONES CASH CASH ACCEPTED ACCEPTED HERE HERE Millicom Annual Report 2016 61 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Growing responsibly and with purpose – continued 1. Privacy and freedom of expression Progress in 2016 This year our focus has been on: As our customer base and services we provide In 2016, we continued to advocate for clear to them increase, so does the focus on and and transparent legal frameworks around • Improving stakeholder engagement, reputational risk associated with requests from surveillance, aligned to the principles of especially supporting the merger of law enforcement to communications proportionality and necessity. We contributed Telecommunications Industry Dialogue companies for surveillance and customer data. to furthering the understanding around the on Freedom of Expression and Privacy Our priority is to ensure we achieve the right issues telecommunication companies face (TID) and Global Network Initiative (GNI) balance between our obligation to respect local and the context in which decisions are made and building relationships with local laws and supporting governments in the through our first Law Enforcement Disclosure human rights organizations legitimate aims to protect their citizens, and our report, published in April 2016. We also made responsibility to respect the privacy of our further improvements to our internal • Continuing to improve internal processes customers. operating procedures and controls relating to relating to law enforcement assistance law enforcement assistance, and ensuring Millicom is committed to being transparent and ‘major events’ escalation that any ‘major events’ were escalated to about how we deal with requests from regional and global management for governments and law enforcement agencies. attention and support. Ongoing industry dialogue Improving our internal processes Millicom is one of the founding members of All of our operations conducted selfTelecommunications Industry Dialogue assessments on their alignment with the (TID), an industry group jointly addressing Group Law Enforcement Assistance issues of privacy and freedom of expression Guidelines and controls, as outlined in our as they relate to the telecommunication internal control manual. We commissioned sector. In 2016, TID met face-to-face once a reports on the legal frameworks and quarter as well as weekly by phone. Our government powers on surveillance from all detailed progress in implementing the our markets not covered by previous reports Principles of the TID can be found in our Law by TID or its members. These reports will be Enforcement Disclosure report 2016. published under the Creative Commons license in 2017. In March, we became observers of the Global Network Initiative (GNI), a multi-stakeholder In 2016, we also established an internal initiative focusing on internet freedom, working group on data privacy and with the aim of joining as full members in protection, with the aim to create one March 2017. The drivers of our membership comprehensive data privacy framework for of GNI were to build joint leverage with the Group and to set global policies and companies across the ICT ecosystem, shared training for data privacy. learning and best practices, strengthened A global policy aligned to international best policy advocacy and benefit from a multipractice will mean going beyond the stakeholder approach – and to put our requirement of the law in a great majority of processes to test through the GNI our operating markets. independent assessment. Membership will allow us to fully participate in what we Our aim is to be able to significantly increase consider to be a critical debate with more transparency in 2017 on our policies and than 50 organizations, human rights experts, approach to data privacy and protection and investors, academics and internet companies. on what data we collect and why. The first year of our three-year donations agreement with international human rights organization Civil Rights Defenders focused Read  more about our progress in on sharing information of developments in implementing the Principles of the TID our two regions and connecting with local and our work on privacy and freedom human rights organizations in some of our of expression in our Law Enforcement key markets, such as Tanzania and Colombia. Disclosure report 2016 here Millicom Annual Report 2016 62 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Growing responsibly and with purpose – continued 1. Privacy and freedom of expression Key Completed/achieved In progress Our performance Five-year plan objectives (by 2018): • Complete an external assessment of Millicom’s policies and processes relating to privacy and freedom of expression Topic 2016 target Status Our progress in 2016 KPIs 2014 2015 2016 2017 target Policy Continue to support We supported all % of operations N/A 45% 92% All operations to implemenspecific operations operations in clarifying with controls have controls tation to implement Group requirements of the systematically assessed and guidelines to Group guidelines, and applied in line with systematically manage law implementing these; the Group applied in line with enforcement resulting in all assessed guideline1 the Group guideline requests operations rising to a mature level of controls. Law Publish Law Our first stand-alone LED Total number of N/A 39,418 47,632 Conduct human enforcement Enforcement report was published in law enforcement rights impact requests Disclosure (LED) April 2016. requests (Group) assessment focused report on privacy and 2 freedom of Number of major 2 20 18 expression in all our events3 LatAm operations 1 2015 data disclosed this year based on 11 operations who completed the self-assessment, excluding Tigo DRC which was sold at the beginning of 2016, and Colombia and Zantel as integration continued in 2015. 2016 data is based on 12 operations, excluding Zantel, as integration continued in 2016. 2 This number does not include requests to block access to child sexual abuse content (applicable only to Colombia in 2016). Number of law enforcement requests Region Interception Customer metadata MFS Content takedown LatAm 927 39,279 267 0 Africa 5 6,827 326 1 Overview of major events3 by type Type of event Occurrences in 2016 Shutdown of services 8 Proposals for significant changes in local laws 5 Proposals for significant changes in technical or operational procedures 2 Disproportionate interception or customer data requests 1 Politically motivated messages 1 Other 1 3 D ata reported for financial year, including 2016 data. This also applies to the “Overview of major events by type” table data below. “Major events” can include requests for shutdown of specific base station sites, geographical areas or entire network, service denial or restriction (SMS, mobile/fixed internet, social media channels), interception requests outside of due process, targeted take-down or blocking of specific content, denial of access for specific individuals, significant changes relating to surveillance techniques or operational processes (direct access or how local surveillance laws are implemented in practice), significant changes to local laws relating to government powers of surveillance or data retention, or requests to send politically motivated messages to customers on behalf of the government. Millicom Annual Report 2016 63 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Growing responsibly and with purpose – continued 2. Child rights and online protection Progress in 2016 This year our focus has been on: Our work over the past years has positioned focus on managing operational risks around us as a strong leader on child protection within child rights and actions to build safer • Finalizing the child rights tools for our our industry, re-affirmed in our materiality environments online for children. sector with UNICEF, and conducting assessment with our key stakeholders in 2015. further assessments in LatAm Building on our understanding of how our daily work may impact children’s lives, our initiatives • Creating a holistic approach to child online protection (COP) in LatAm Promoting child rights Strengthening child online protection In 2014 we partnered with UNICEF to gain and We want children to be able to harness the promote greater awareness of the issue of child great benefits online access can bring them rights for our business. So far this collaboration in education, social interaction, inclusion and has focused on jointly identifying key child self-expression while at the same time rights issues in the digital sector and on ensuring their interaction is safe. creating tools for companies to identify and We work with UNICEF and other expert address their gaps and opportunities in partners to empower children to navigate managing their child rights impacts. the digital world more safely. To date, our The Mobile Operator Child Rights Impact workshops in seven countries in LatAm and Assessment (MO CRIA) tool UNICEF and Africa have brought together key decisionMillicom jointly developed, was launched in makers and influencers to promote consistent July 2016 and is available from UNICEF legal frameworks to protect children online website for all telecom companies to use. To – in particular to be able to jointly fight cyberdate, we conducted have five assessments bullying and child sexual abuse content and using this tool, two in Africa and three in its distribution. Some of our workshops have • 1,826 child online protection (COP) LatAm; Colombia, El Salvador and Bolivia. acted as catalysts to form multi-stakeholder training sessions conducted, reaching national committees and have brought 122,000 children, 14,800 teachers and together all major telecommunication and 13,000 parents internet service providers to promote collaboration for safe online experiences and • Over 1,230 digital literacy training fight child exploitation on the internet. sessions for children and over 1,570 for adults These workshops form a strong basis for our integrated approach to child online • 1,061 schools, universities and public protection (COP). institutions connected to the internet as part of our digital connectivity To further raise awareness on this issue, we program provide training and support materials to our customers, to children and teachers at • Equipment of in-kind value around schools and train our sales and customer US$474,000 donated to enable digital service staff to be able to address any connectivity customer concerns. • Over 1,870 pieces of equipment such as We have also taken steps internally to make a tablets, smartphones and computers F  ollowing the success of our mBirth bigger impact in the fight against child donated to 226 schools project in Tanzania, mobile birth sexual abuse content online, explained in the registration is now live in a number • Over 900 members of our sales force following page. have been trained on COP to date of our markets, including Ghana and Bolivia. See page 57 for our case study. Millicom Annual Report 2016 64 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Growing responsibly and with purpose – continued 2. Child rights and online protection Supporting multi-stakeholder collaboration We ignite dialog and collaboration on COP to ensure key stakeholders who are needed to protect children online – legislators, law enforcement, child rights experts and the tech industry – all understand the different issues of COP and their role in solving them. Two years ago, Tigo Paraguay hosted Latin America’s first ever COP workshop and since then we have held similar events in Colombia, Bolivia, El Salvador and Costa Rica, as well as the first ever African-based workshop in Rwanda. Fighting child sexual abuse content Building on the success of our previous As part of Millicom’s commitment to fighting workshops, in October 2016, we hosted online child sexual abuse content (CSAC), we 306 participants, including the First Lady are taking action to prevent access to this of Honduras, the Lady Lee Foundation, content in our networks. the Minister of Education, CONATEL – the telecommunication regulator, UNICEF, GSMA, In 2016, we signed an agreement with International Centre for Missing and Exploited Interpol to begin blocking access on our Children, INHOPE, Plan International and network to child sexual abuse content industry peers for a COP summit in Honduras. included on their “Worst Of” list. These CSAC A working group was created to discuss the sites are the only content we proactively Through our partnership with UNICEF, Legal Framework for the planned Law on block access to in our services. we launched our “Safe Internet Manual” Cybercrime with the full support of the National in several of our countries in LatAm. The We expect our LatAm operations to have materials contain important information Congress and the National Directorate on blocking in place by the end of 2017. Children, Adolescence and Family. on online safety and where to receive Customer communication and training assistance for children or adults in risk These workshops are followed up with a Together with our partners, we provide situations. In El Salvador and Paraguay, we number of different work streams. For training on COP to parents, teachers and to have distributed over 30,000 brochures to example, in Rwanda and Costa Rica, national children as part of our volunteering activities customers and, beginning next year, we will committees on COP were established by the across our operations in LatAm. These distribute another 30,000 printed and digital government, which continue to meet training workshops, supported by a wealth versions between Honduras and Bolivia to regularly. In El Salvador – through our Digital of materials tailored to the local context, our clients who have children in their homes. Ambassador’s program – we have trained emphasize the great potential the internet more than 10,000 people, including parents In partnership with the Costa Rican NGO has for children’s development when used Paniamor, we are providing a dedicated web and teachers, on how to use the internet responsibly and aware of related risks. responsibly. We also delivered this training to portal on Tigo websites in operations, allowing our customers to learn how to be All 12 operations1 our employees and their children. In Bolivia, Tigo took part in a nationwide campaign on more content-aware parents, as their children COP, through which we reached thousands of access today’s digital world. The portal will assessed against minimum age of hiring customers to highlight the importance of controls requirements of our internal go live in 2017. responsible use of technology by children. control manual reported highest level Training for our customer service of maturity for this control. and sales staff Continuing our effort to reach out to our customers, we are training our sales force on the COP. We want our sales force to be aware of the importance of this to our customers and their children, and to be able to guide our customers to the best and safest ways to use our products and services. 1 All operations excluding Zantel. As we continue to align internal processes and systems for Zantel following our acquisition in late 2015, self-assessment campaigns start in 2017. Millicom Annual Report 2016 65 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Growing responsibly and with purpose – continued 2. Child rights and online protection Key Completed/achieved In progress Our performance Five-year plan objectives (by 2018): • The mobile operator child rights impact assessment (MO CRIA) tool we jointly developed with UNICEF is used across the mobile operator community. • Conduct the MO CRIA in all operations in Africa and 50% of operations in Latin America • Integrate promotion of parental controls and distribution of safe internet into mobile, fixed and cable TV customer processes in Latin America • Publish child online protection (COP) policy and accompanying guidelines, and roll out across all operations Topic 2016 target Status Our progress KPIs 2014 2015 2016 2017 target Child labor All operations to All 12 operations % of operations N/A 58% 100%2 All operations to policy have controls in assessed report reached with controls continue to maintain compliance1 place and highest level of maturity systematically systematic controls systematically against the controls. applied in line with in line with the applied in line with the minimum age minimum age policy the minimum age policy policy Child rights Conduct MO CRIA In addition to Colombia, % of operations 0 17% 38%3 Action plans in place impact in three additional we conducted with child risk in all operations assessments operations, assessments in impact where MO CRIA has including one in El Salvador and Bolivia assessments been completed Colombia in 2016. conducted to date Child online Organize COP We hosted one workshop % of operations 15% 46% 54%4 Organize COP protection workshops with in Honduras. Two that have hosted a workshops in stakeholders in planned workshops were multi-stakeholder Guatemala and three operations postponed to 2017. COP workshop to Ghana date Roll out customer COP portal has been % of operations New KPI 0% All operations in materials and designed and will be with a child online for 2016 LatAm to integrate a training on COP rolled out to Tigo protection portal COP portal on Tigo across Latin websites in 2017. websites America We rolled out customer % of operations in New KPI 29% At least three leaflets jointly developed LatAm with for 2016 additional with UNICEF in El customer leaflets operations in LatAm Salvador and Paraguay. on COP to roll out customer leaflets We have conducted COP Number of children New KPI 122 Increase number of trainings across LatAm reached by COP for 2016 children trained by and in Ghana. training (’000) 20% Block child sexual We signed an agreement % of operations N/A 14%5 14% Implement CSAC abuse content with Interpol and in LatAm blocking blocking in at least (CSAC) defined legal and child sexual abuse 50% of our technical approach for content operations across each operation. LatAm 1 When we published our minimum age policy in 2015, we reported two KPIs against targets around child labor policy compliance: number of operations completing self-assessment against controls in place, and those who report systematic controls as being in place. From 2016 onwards, the controls are self-assessed for each operation on annual basis and we will continue to report the maturity level only. 2 All operations excluding Zantel. As we continue to align internal processes and systems for Zantel following our acquisition in late 2015, self-assessment campaigns start in 2017. 3 Including assessments conducted in Tanzania and Rwanda in 2015; and Colombia, El Salvador and Bolivia in 2016. 4 Including the workshops hosted in Paraguay and Colombia in 2014; Bolivia, El Salvador, Costa Rica and Rwanda in 2015; and Honduras in 2016. 5 We restate 2015 number as our operations in Colombia already had CSAC blocking in place, in line with the country’s legislative requirements. Millicom Annual Report 2016 66 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Growing responsibly and with purpose – continued 3. Acting responsibly: anti-corruption compliance Progress in 2016 This year our focus has been on: Millicom has a zero-tolerance policy towards anti-bribery and anti-corruption (ABAC), and any and all forms of bribery, corruption, anti-money laundering (AML). We also • Appointing a new, dedicated Chief Ethics extortion and fraud. We are committed to strengthened our capabilities and internal and Compliance Officer role doing business the right way in every controls around AML, with standardized • Simplifying our compliance framework by environment in which we operate. training framework launched for all our adopting a three pillar approach: prevent, We continued to further strengthen our Mobile Financial Services (MFS) staff. detect and respond compliance framework, including getting better Our new Chief Ethics and Compliance Officer, understanding of compliance risks and reports directly to our Board, with a dotted • Rolling out standardized compliance increased engagement within the business. training across all operations line to our CEO. Our governance structure can We rolled out Group-wide, standardized training be found in the Governance section of this on our Code of Conduct (“the Code”), report, on pages 124-125. Embedding a robust Code of Conduct Strengthening our AML and We have renewed our corporate membership Our communication campaigns for current anti-fraud capabilities of the Association of Certified Fraud staff, as well as new starters, aim to have all With the growth of our MFS business Examiners with a higher tier, which means we employees acknowledge the Code formally regulations are increasing in our markets have more ACFE members across our and declare any potential conflicts of around the monitoring and registration of operations compared to our previous interest. MFS providers. We have further strengthened membership year. our internal capabilities and provided The mandatory Code training launched We have a number of colleagues currently extensive support to our operations as part across all our operations with an easy-toprogressing towards the certified fraud of our registration process and we are access online learning course and face-toexaminer qualification and will increase this reinforcing our AML controls. We hired face sessions. By the end of 2016, 92%1 further in 2017 as we continue to centralized resources for both of our regions of our employees completed the training professionalize our network. to act as regional AML program managers. on our Code, its application and how to raise In 2016, we achieved greater visibility on any concerns around unethical behavior. We have a three-staged approach in ensuring fraud through quarterly trend analyses. we have a robust AML framework: our AML Building on the ABAC training delivered to These fraud reports are then submitted team continues to work closely with our senior management and high risk groups in to the Audit Committee of the Board. internal control functions in conducting 2015, we are further rolling out the ABAC self-assessment campaigns against AMLtraining to staff at all levels. related controls. Our regional AML program Moving forward, the mandatory training managers then conduct regular reviews of will have to be completed by all employees AML measures. Finally, our internal audit annually. In 2017, we will be expanding our team conduct audits into the AML practices 90% completion target for Code training currently in place. to ABAC training as well. In 2016, we conducted internal audits in We also continued to promote our three of our largest MFS markets; El Salvador, independently-run Millicom Ethics Line, which Paraguay and Tanzania. Remediation plans allows employees and third parties to raise were put in place and executed following concerns anonymously. As per our Code, we the audits. 81%of our employees reiterate the protection of whistleblowers and our non-retaliation policy for all good We also revised our AML training program, acknowledged our and delivered a standardized training faith reports of wrongdoing. program to all our local AML officers. In 2017, Code of Conduct.” we will roll out this training program to all our MFS staff. 1 Excluding Comcel. Compliance is working closely with local management to roll out a tailored solution. Millicom Annual Report 2016 67 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Growing responsibly and with purpose – continued 3. A  cting responsibly: anti-corruption compliance Key Completed/achieved In progress Our performance Five-year plan objectives (by 2018): • Continue external and internal monitoring of the anti-bribery and anti-corruption (ABAC) program enhancements with a view to measure the maturity level of the compliance framework over time • Embed compliance risk management into business risk management at global, regional and local level • Third party due diligence for end-to-end process, from landowners to suppliers, IT software providers etc. based on risk level Topic 2016 target Status Our progress in 2016 KPIs 2014 2015 2016 2017 target Code of All employees have Through the global Code % of employees 70% 52% 81%1 All employees Conduct acknowledged the training and awareness who acknowledged to acknowledge Code campaigns, the number the Code the Code of employees who acknowledged the Code more than doubled. Despite this significant increase, we are still in the process of achieving 100% completion. Training 85% employees to The Code training has % of employees New KPI 92%3 90% of employees complete the Code been rolled out to all who have for 2016 to complete the training2 employees, where we completed the Code Code and ABAC exceed the completion training training target. ABAC training ABAC training was rolled % of procurement N/A 32% 44% Incorporate completed by all out beyond senior staff staff trained on elements of the senior staff and and high risk groups, ABAC Code and ABAC high risk groups with 45% of all our training into % of senior employees completing onboarding training managers trained N/A 63% 65% the training this year. on ABAC Conflict All employees have In all operations, we ran % of employees 67% 57% 74%1 All employees of interest filled and signed a communication who filled to complete and declaration the conflict campaign on disclosure and signed the sign the conflict of interest requirements around any conflict of interest of interest declaration form perceived, actual and declaration form declaration form potential conflicts of interest. All cases reported were reviewed and closed. 1 As the signings data is in line with CR performance data reporting period of Q4 2015 to Q3 2016, percentage is calculated based on headcount as of end of Q3 2016. 2 To ensure all our employees can access the training, we launched the Code training in both elearning and face-to-face formats, and therefore have slightly reworded this KPI for the 2016 report to reflect all training delivered. Employees will be required to complete a training session on both Code of Conduct and anti-bribery and anti-corruption at least once a year. 3 Excluding Comcel. Compliance is working closely with local management to roll out a tailored solution. Millicom Annual Report 2016 68 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Growing responsibly and with purpose – continued 3. A  cting responsibly: anti-corruption compliance Key Completed/achieved In progress Topic 2016 target Status Our progress in 2016 KPIs 2014 2015 2016 2017 target WhistleContinue to align We established a Number of cases of 110 156 97 Continue blowing management of Group-level committee unethical behavior strengthening the cases reported to with compliance, HR, reported and global investigations joint tools and fraud management and investigated process guidelines; promote corporate security our Millicom Ethics functions to streamline Investigations 8 16 6 Run a communication Line and encourage the investigations resulting in written campaign around employees to raise process. warning Millicom Ethics Line potential concerns We promoted the Investigations 54 6 18 90% completion rate Millicom Ethics Line as resulting in on CoC and ABAC part of the CoC and termination of trainings, which ABAC training sessions, employee contract feature guidelines on with posters and how to raise concerns communication and non-retaliation campaigns. policies for all good-faith reports of wrong-doing Anti-money Strengthen internal Each operation % of operations New KPI for 2017 All operations laundering AML controls and conducted a selfoffering MFS with offering MFS to have conduct AML audits assessment against AML controls AML controls AML-related controls. systematically systematically applied applied We conducted audits % revenue from New KPI 83% Conduct audits in in three of our largest MFS represented by for 2016 each market in a Mobile Financial Services operations audited three year cycle (MFS) markets. for AML controls Third-party Map our land rights We conducted audits on % of operations we New KPI for 2017 Include land rights risk management process our compliance conducted a management and management with a pilot operation framework, including compliance risk related transactional and antito understand transactions for network assessment or audit elements in the corruption environmental and deployment and land quarterly compliance measures social impacts permits practices and monitor plan. (including ABAC-related risks. corruption risk) Monitor turnover of We continue monitoring Turnover of N/A 14% 14% Monitor turnover procurement staff turnover rate. procurement staff of procurement as a high risk staff as a high risk employee group1 employee group 1 Low turnover could indicate heightened ABAC or fraud-related risks. Overview of cases reported to Millicom Ethics Line2 Number of cases reported Cases ending in Cases resulting Topic and investigated written warning in termination Bribery and corruption 8 0 1 Discrimination and harassment 12 0 0 Human rights and labor 17 0 0 Conflict of interest 14 2 1 Fraud 15 1 5 Other 19 0 2 Total 85 3 9 2 T  his table covers only cases reported to Millicom Ethics Line and excludes cases reported to TigoUne’s Línea Ética, as we further align case category descriptions. Total cases reported in the KPIs table prior to this table include cases reported to both Millicom Ethics Line and TigoUne Línea Ética. Millicom Annual Report 2016 69 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Growing responsibly and with purpose – continued 4. R  educing our environmental footprint Progress in 2016 This year our focus has been on: We have updated our Group Environment As we reached our long-term goals to reduce Policy, which now establishes clear governance our energy consumption by 50% by 2020 • Aligning our environmental efforts with structure to manage our environmental impacts compared to 2008 baseline, we are now our corporate efficiency program, HEAT, and outline the roles and responsibilities of exploring opportunities to further align our to deliver cost and carbon savings by each function in protecting the environment. environmental work with business priorities. reducing network energy consumption This year there is an 8% year-on-year We continue to focus our efforts on activities and integrating fleet and facilities absolute reduction in our CO2e emissions. that have the highest environmental impact, in management particular, reducing energy consumption and We are pleased to have achieved certification • Modernizing and improving the energy rolling out our global e-waste management against the world’s leading environmental efficiency of data centers program. management standard ISO 14001 for our corporate offices and data centers and critical Progress has been good in implementing our • Rolling out of our responsible electronic sites in Honduras, the second operation after global responsible e-waste recycling program waste (e-waste) management program Colombia to achieve this certification. Our aim across all operations by 2018, with eight in more countries is to certify all other operations in 2017. operations running the program by the end • Achieving ISO 14001 certifications of the year. Energy efficiency To reduce our energy consumption of our We are also working towards achieving a Last year electricity and fuel costs accounted networks sites, we continued to modernize Silver certification for “Certified Energy for one quarter of our site management and our network with more energy-efficient Efficient Datacenter Award (CEEDA)” for Tigo maintenance costs. This, combined with our equipment, increased network sharing and Paraguay and Tigo Tanzania data centers. commitment to better environmental reduced the use of cooling solutions. We also We expect to deliver this in early 2017 for our stewardship, makes reducing our energy invested in alternative energies, such as solar first site. consumption a priority. power and hybrid battery solutions, for Electronic waste management powering sites in remote “off‑grid” areas. As we continue to upgrade our network, we Electronic waste (e-waste) continues to be a will roll out single-RAN technology across our With The Digital Lifestyle TM strategy, larger key focus of our environmental management sites – this technology allows mobile data centers are needed. We have taken a work due to potentially high environmental operators to reduce energy consumption by proactive approach to energy management and reputational risks – and the need to take an estimated 30% by hosting different when building new state-of-the-art facilities a proactive approach in markets where nodes such as 2G and 3G in one box. We are and modernizing those already operating. infrastructure for responsible e-waste including environmental impact and energy The new and improved data centers we have treatment may be missing. reduction measurements to the Group-wide introduced in 2016 offer increased safety In 2016, we performed a thorough review operational efficiency program HEAT to help and security and have significantly improved of the implementation, gaps and impact us quantify savings. power usage effectiveness (PUE). of our e-waste management practices in Following a US$20m initial investment in all our operations. This has helped us create data centers in Chad, Tanzania, Ghana and roadmaps for countries who do not yet Paraguay, we are now investing a further apply the program. This year we were also US$27m in those in Colombia, Senegal, able to map for the first time the savings Bolivia and Guatemala in 2017. Work for the program is delivering in warehouse costs Over modernized data centers in Senegal and Bolivia, and a new Tier 3 center in Colombia due to reducing storage needs. Out of 13 operations, eight are now running on the US$678,800 are well advanced. Group program. raised from sale of e-waste through 1 E xcluding the monetary value of the e-waste sales from responsible recycling program in 20161 our operations in Senegal in 2016, as we finalize the clear out. Millicom Annual Report 2016 70 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Growing responsibly and with purpose – continued 4. R  educing our environmental footprint E-waste recycled through our responsible waste management program Country Quantity of e-waste recycled (t) Chad Country set up on the program, recycling in progress 3.5 times as much Colombia 206 e-waste recycled Costa Rica 89 through responsible El Salvador 101 Paraguay 267 e-waste management Rwanda Country set up on the program, program in 2016” recycling in progress Senegal 84 Tanzania 75 Total weight of e-waste recycled through our responsible e-waste Energy use management program (tonnes) Sources of energy by asset type 822 Energy from Electricity Fuel (L ’000) fuel (MWh) (MWh)3 Base station and fixed network sites 16,474 164,469 464,483 Our fleet 9,713 93,202 N/A 179 Data centers and offices1, 2 4,218 42,084 50,235 2015 2016 Shops 268 2,678 17,254 Sources of energy for our assets Sources of energy for our assets, excluding fleet 85 31 Total energy Energy from Energy from consumption diesel electricity 69 (MWh) (%)* (%)* Latin America 562,346 15 85 Africa 178,163 69 31 15 * As a percentage of total energy consumption. LatAm Africa Diesel 1 A  s the majority of our data centers are co-located with our 6 Scope  3 emissions account for emissions from our base Electricity offices, they often do not have separate meters to enable station sites power managed by a supplier (accounting for us report on data center consumption separately. With our 93% of total scope 3 emissions, same as 2015) and air data center program roll-out, we will be able to measure travel (7%). Total energy consumption MWh data center energy consumption individually. 7 Carbon emissions from sites power managed by a third 2 For two of our operations, we account for some data center party in one operation are estimated based on 2015 electricity consumption under network sites. As we further figures, taking into account the change in total number of 531,971 roll out our data center improvement program, we aim to sites managed by the third party. 524,531 be able to report data center consumption separately 8 Air travel data for Bolivia is extrapolated for the 12 month 470,596 3 Including 377 Mwh electricity generated from solar panels period based on the data available for nine months. at our sites. Electricity consumption from solar panels have been estimated based on average consumption per site or solar panel, and differences in solar radiation in our 302,432 geographies. We are working towards improving the 256,593 279,664 accuracy of our renewable energy consumption. Our carbon footprint4,5 tonnes CO2e 4 Emissions from fuel are calculated using Defra’s 2016 2014 2015 2016 72,372 Greenhouse Gas Reporting Conversion Factors. 54,541 Fuel 5 Emissions from electricity are calculated using World 63,411 Resources Institute (2015) GHG Protocol tool for stationary Electricity combustion, version 4.7. 125,384 118,000 68,704 115,491 74,680 78,799 2014 2015 2016 S cope 1 All countries ISO 14001 Scope 2 Scope 36,7,8 certified by end of 2017” Millicom Annual Report 2016 71 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Growing responsibly and with purpose – continued 4. R  educing our environmental footprint Environmental impact project continues in Paraguay In the second year of its environmental impact assessment project, Tigo Paraguay launched a waste management campaign to reduce, reuse and recycle waste. The Green Committee oversees the program to promote recycling habits and establish a comprehensive waste management Promoting circular system that colleagues will use. Once we have measured the amount of basic waste economy disposed of from our main offices, the Building on our focus on e-waste, our plan is to expand this campaign to all operations in LatAm have worked on offices in Asuncion and progressively to innovative solutions promoting circular the whole country. Our focus is on economy with other types of waste our achieving a cost-benefit model through operations generate. Our team in Bolivia programs of recycling paper for our has developed an upcycling project where offices, generating jobs for local recyclers 45 students, from underprivileged and selling reusable products, thus backgrounds within Bolivia’s three main promoting a culture of reduction, reuse cities, participate in building furniture and recycling and environmental awareness. Our new built, energy efficient made from warehouse pallets that data center in Paraguay would otherwise have been disposed of. The finished furniture is being used in our Tigocitos (crèches) and shelters. As the project evolves, we aim to create a business model to sell the furniture. Tigo Costa Rica goes We completed the first phase of this carbon neutral upcycling project and expect to apply the project nationwide during next year. With the Costa Rican government’s ambitious target for the country to be In El Salvador, we work with a supplier carbon neutral by 2021, Tigo Costa Rica who makes bags and backpacks from is leading the way with its own carbon old banners and promotional material. emissions mapping project. Since 2015, We distribute these, equipped with other we have been following the international school material, to children as part of ISO 14064 standard and built a GHG our educational program. emissions inventory for our facilities in Using mobile technology San José and our entire fleet. This year we to reduce our employees’ delivered training on carbon neutrality for all our fleet, facilities and CR teams; and commuting footprint are implementing an energy reduction TigoUne signed a commercial agreement plan. We aim to achieve carbon neutrality with Wheels, a company providing certification over the next year. sustainable mobility solutions. The app is a social network allowing employees to share their private car or taxi with other employees. It is now used in seven locations between Bogota and Medellin and more than 460 employees have subscribed to it. With traffic congestion regulations limiting use of cars, this initiative also helps our employees to commute more easily. Millicom Annual Report 2016 72 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Growing responsibly and with purpose – continued 4. R  educing our environmental footprint Key Completed/achieved In progress Our performance Five-year plan objectives (by 2018): • Establish a cross-functional steering committee and global energy reduction and green energy strategy • Global e-waste process implemented in all operations to manage e-waste through responsible vendors • Extend environmental reporting to consider emissions relating to logistics and supply chain Topic 2016 target Status Our progress in 2016 KPIs 2014 2015 2016 2017 target E-waste Identify high-risk We conducted a review % of operations 15% 38% 62% Roll out the operations where of all operations to set up on our program in at least e-waste is not identify current e-waste global responsible 10 operations, managed in line management approach, e-waste recycling accounting for with Millicom’s and alignment with program over 75% global policy, and Group e-waste policy. set up programs We are developing at these operations roadmaps for operations as priority that are not set on the Group program. Update Millicom’s Millicom’s revised Group % of operations New KPI Develop and roll out environment environment policy was with controls for 2017 an implementation and e-waste updated and signed off systematically manual for the management by senior management. applied in line with environment policy policies the environment and update the policy internal control manual accordingly Energy Reduce energy While we have several Tonnes of CO2e 0.039 0.043 0.040 Quantify emissions consumption consumption energy saving initiatives emissions per savings achieved and carbon across our operations US$1,000 revenue through key HEAT emissions and our normalized initiatives, including energy consumption is network energy decreasing, we are still % of base stations Expanded KPI 25% consumption and working on gaining using green power scope for 2016 logistics better visibility on or site sharing Set new long-term quantifying energy % of base stations N/A 58% 55% carbon reduction reductions achieved via on single RAN targets individual initiatives. technology There is an 8% year-onyear absolute reduction Energy See See See in CO2e emissions. consumption by 2014 2015 page This year we are technical and CR CR 71 changing the way we administrative report report for normalize our CO2e to sites and fleet page page breakreport “tonnes of CO2e 43. 28. down. emissions per US$1,000 revenue”. This is more representative of our business activities and covers emissions from both mobile and cable services. Target Review We have not yet replaced As we achieved our 2020 Carry out setting environmental our 2020 target which we “CO2e per base station” environmental target setting achieved in 2015. target last year, we now impact assessments process and monitor tonnes of CO2e to identify areas of approach to scienceemissions per US$1,000 highest impact and based targets for revenue and subsequent control over the carbon reduction reductions. reduction of the and set new impact long-term targets Millicom Annual Report 2016 73 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Growing responsibly and with purpose – continued 5. Diversity Progress in 2016 This year our focus has been on: New business models, innovation, better tap into this market by providing relevant creativity and ability to respond to more and useful content and services. • Delivering diversity and inclusion training fragmented customer segments make diversity and awareness for executives This year we continued to highlight the a crucial business issue. In our markets, female business case of diversity by demonstrating • Supporting female entrepreneurship and customers in particular represent an enormous its power to help us grow. We have also opportunity. There is a clear gender gap in building our female customer base promoted inclusion and trained management adoption of the services we sell and women on unconscious bias in the workplace. have felt underserved by the digital industry. Improved diversity will enable us to A diverse workplace We did not meet our 2016 target to conduct We are proud that our workforce is culturally an equal pay audit. The audit was postponed Supporting employees diverse with 82 nationalities. When we first pending further alignment of job grading with children started our diversity program in 2014, the and responsibilities, a prerequisite for a gender balance at senior management level successful audit. Turnover of younger women has been was very low compared to the gender high in Millicom. To offer concrete support Training and awareness to employees returning to work after balance across our overall employee base. In 2016, we carried out training on gender maternity leave, we have promoted a We continue to work to increase the number diversity, inclusion and unconscious bias to shortened working week for breastfeeding of women in senior management. The trends senior executives in two separate workshops. mothers and established dedicated have been positive in our two regions, with This training – focused on understanding the nursing rooms in most of our LatAm the number of women in senior positions value of diversity, recognizing unconscious operations: Bolivia, El Salvador, Paraguay, rising from 7% in 2013 to 26% in Africa, and bias, and building an inclusive workplace – Honduras and Guatemala, with our from 27% in 2015 to 31% in LatAm in 2016. has been adapted to be rolled out to our offices in Colombia and Costa Rica to In our corporate offices 20% of senior roles staff across corporate offices and markets. follow shortly. are held by women. The first of such one-day workshops took place in Guatemala in December 2016. In Bolivia, we also offer childcare services In 2016 the proportion of women in our in the workplace. 190 of our female employee base is 39%. With the percentage Closing the digital gap for women employees and 80 of our male employees of women in top 680 management roles The mobile operator association GSMA use one of the eight nurseries we have increasing from 25% in 2015 to 29% in 2016. estimates that 200 million fewer women own across our operations in the country. We are committed to continuing this steady a mobile phone than men in low and middle We are also encouraging our employees – progress. income countries. Bringing balance could both men and women – to take their full unlock up to US$170 billion globally for the parental leave. In our 2015 report, we outlined our ambition mobile industry before 2020. to establish a Company-wide diversity steering group comprising members of the Gaining more women customers represents Executive Committee and senior a great business opportunity for Millicom. management. We are preparing to start We are also working to better support diversity and inclusion committees for our women entrepreneurs in the communities corporate offices and operations. The goal of in which we work. the committees will be to promote the Millicom is particularly proud of our creation of an inclusive workplace, where our involvement with the GSMA’s Connected employees’ different strengths are Women Initiative that is helping our industry celebrated, valued and utilized. focus on reducing the gender gap in the adoption of mobile internet and mobile money service. Steady progress increasing women in senior roles” Millicom Annual Report 2016 74 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Growing responsibly and with purpose – continued 5. Diversity Key Completed/achieved In progress In 2016, Millicom became the first operator During National Women’s Week in Chad, Tigo Additionally, this program reached out to the to commit all of its African operations to the Chad hosted a “Women entrepreneurship Ministry of the Woman, where 13 female initiative. The first African operator to sign up, and ICT” event to highlight the significance employees received a certificate for completing Tigo Rwanda, committed to increase the of digital tools for women and in particular a six-week digital training on Microsoft Office, percentage of women accessing its mobile the benefits of Mobile Financial Services mobile internet and Mobile Financial Services. financial platform “Tigo Cash” from 39% (MFS) solutions. The event showcased Tigo Training on digital tools for women are also of total users to 45% by 2020. Paaré, an innovative group loan service that held in cooperation with Technidev, winner of has already benefited hundreds of women the 2015 Tigo Digital Changemakers Award Tigo Paraguay in turn became the first entrepreneurs in getting crowdfunding to and the Association for the Education Action operator in Latin America to sign the start or expand their own businesses. and Advancement of Women (AEPF). Connected Women Commitment. Our performance Five-year plan objectives (by 2018): • Increase the number of women among senior managers each year • Establish a Group-wide maternity and paternity leave policy, to also include a shortened working week for breastfeeding mothers Topic 2016 target Status Our progress in 2016 KPIs 2014 2015 2016 2017 target FamilyEstablish At the end of 2016, we % of operations New KPI 38% Establish nursing friendly breastfeeding had nursing rooms in five with breastfeeding for 2016 rooms in all policies rooms in 50% of operations across rooms remaining LatAm operations LatAm, representing operations and our 38% of our operations. London corporate We also introduced these office facilities in Miami and Luxembourg corporate offices. Female Increase % of For our work in 2016, see % of women 22% 25%1 29%1 Increase % of represenwomen in senior page 74. in senior women in senior tation in the management management management workforce positions positions positions to align with % of women % of women 33% 34% 39% across our employee across our base employee base Reduce turnover For initiatives we Turnover rate for 28% 18% 21% Reduce turnover rate rate for women delivered, see case women under 30 for women under 30 under 30 study on “supporting employees with children” on page 74. 1 I n 2016, we clarified and updated the definition of senior management to represent key decision making roles across our business, such as our CEO or General Managers, their direct reports and heads of departments. This represents top 680 senior manager roles, whereas in the previous years, our report was based on a grading structure which was similarly representative at over 600 senior managers. Millicom Annual Report 2016 75 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Growing responsibly and with purpose – continued 6. Taking care of our people: health and safety Progress in 2016 This year our focus has been on: We work in countries where health and safety diligent and ensure compliance with all local (H&S) practices are evolving and where legislation, but also go beyond legal • Committing to zero-fatality business related regulation may not exist or is not compliance by aligning to global standards. • Introducing a risk-based approach consistently enforced. Some of our countries In 2016, our focus was on adopting a risk to health and safety by country also experience high rates of violent crime, based approach, carrying out risk assessments extreme weather events or threat of terrorism, in each operation and implementing so we need to be particularly vigilant to mitigation plans. We ensure a consistent mitigate risks to our employees. approach by rolling out an H&S management Due to the lack of uniform H&S regulation in system aligned to international H&S standard our countries, it is essential that we remain OHSAS 18001. In our previous reports, we covered a number personally by our CEO and delivered to all • Management of road risk: with vehicle of topics relating to health, safety, wellbeing, CEOs of our subsidiaries. Our zero fatalities tracking and speed monitoring equipment development and career progression of our approach applies not only to employees installed in our fleet in almost all our employees under “Taking care of our people” directly employed by us but also to operations, we are focusing our efforts on section. This year, as we integrate our reporting, contractors on whom we depend on for monitoring driver patterns and promoting employment and career-development related many high risk areas, such as network safe driving. topics are now reported under “Our people maintenance. In 2016, we had zero fatalities • Personal safety and security: we continue and partnerships” section, from pages 21-22. amongst employees and contractor fatalities providing travel safety information, fell to five from 16 the previous year. For more information on governance of security bulletins and briefings. We are health and safety, see pages 125-126. Our Colombia, Honduras, Bolivia and conducting two pilots in Bolivia and corporate offices are already certified against Honduras to develop and implement a A zero-fatality commitment the international health and safety standard personal alarm and security app. Our goal is to have zero avoidable incidents OHSAS 18001 and we are well on track to and accidents and we have engendered this • Control of our contractors: we request all achieve certification for all operations by the culture from the bottom up by empowering suppliers to sign our Supplier Code of end of 2017. local health and safety officers. This has Conduct and align with our requirements been done through a global policy endorsed Risk-based approach on incident reporting, health and safety We achieved our target to conduct risk management and use of personal assessments in each of our operations in 2016 protective requirements. We also conduct to identify highest health and safety risk areas unannounced site inspections and request and develop mitigation plans for top five risks. mitigation plans. Most common risks identified and subsequent We are committed to having a health and mitigation plans we worked on were: safety committee that meets quarterly in • Working at heights: we require all each of our markets. The vast majority of engineers working on our towers to wear our workforce is already represented by an suitable personal protective equipment H&S committee, at 76%. (PPE). We conduct random site inspections In 2017, we will continue reviewing risk to ensure all engineers follow this. We also assessments for each country on a quarterly continue to require all engineers to basis. Senior management and the Board demonstrate their level of safety receive reports on progress and incidents competency via a Safety Passport. on a monthly basis. • Electrical safety: same requirements apply as per working at heights. We also continuously review alternative means of installing cables to minimize the risks of working with overhead cables. Millicom Annual Report 2016 76 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Growing responsibly and with purpose – continued 6. Taking care of our people: health and safety Key Completed/achieved In progress Our performance Five-year plan objectives (by 2018): • Continue our zero-fatality commitment • Review risk assessments for each country on a quarterly basis and update and manage as required • Continue reporting to senior management and the Board on progress and incidents on a monthly basis Topic 2016 target Status Our progress in 2016 KPIs 2014 2015 2016 2017 target Alignment Conduct internal We audited each % of operations New KPI 100% Continue conducting with audits to assess operation in 2016 at with controls for 2016 internal audits to international compliance with least once a year; with systematically assess compliance H&S the new H&S policy audit control documents applied in line with our H&S policy standards and Millicom and mitigation plans in with our Group and internal controls and Safety Rules line with our internal H&S policy Millicom’s controls. Additional own policies OHSAS 18001 certification audits in Bolivia, Colombia, Honduras and our corporate offices. Achieve Our corporate offices % of operations 14% 100% 100% Achieve OHSAS OHSAS 18001 and operations in Bolivia in line with 18001 certification certification for our and Honduras have OHSAS 18001 for all remaining corporate offices achieved OHSAS 18001 operations certification; with our % of operations N/A 8% 23% Colombia operation certified against renewing their OHSAS 180011 certificate. % of workforce 70% 91% 76% All operations represented in to have a H&S H&S committees committee in place with employee representation, that meets on a regular basis Incident Continue improving For our work on Number of 1 1 0 Continue zeroreporting our incident identifying and employee fatality commitment reporting and mitigating H&S risks, and fatalities2 for our employees reinforcing reducing incident rates, and all contractors zero-fatality see “Risk-based commitment approach” on page 76. Number of 6 16 5 Improve incident contractor reporting across all fatalities2 operations Number of H&S N/A 305 155 All significant events incidents reported to be reported within 24 hours Lost-time injury N/A 1.26 1.47 rate per 1,000 workers3 Absentee rate 0.62% 0.71% 0.68% 1 We introduce this KPI in our 2016 report to align with our target of achieving OHSAS 18001 certification across all operations. In 2015, out of 12 of our operations – excluding Tigo DRC which was sold in early 2016 and Zantel as we worked on integration, our Colombia operation was certified. In 2016, our Bolivia, Colombia and Honduras operations were certified. 2 Numbers of employee and contractor fatalities reported for 2016 are aligned with the financial year, same as 2014 and 2015 numbers reported. 3 Our incident management tool is available for all employees and outsourced workers to report incidents. Although 2015 numbers were calculated based on all incidents reported by both worker categories, they were incorrectly reported as 1,000 employees in the 2015 CR report. In this report, we have reinstated the KPI as per 1,000 workers. Millicom Annual Report 2016 77 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Growing responsibly and with purpose – continued 7. Responsible supply chain management Progress in 2016 This year our focus has been on: We rely on thousands of suppliers around the Following the EcoVadis assessments we world, from small local vendors to multinational conducted in 2015 with strategic suppliers in • Identifying material risks by supplier corporations to deliver our services. How they high risk categories, this year we commissioned category behave and the job they do reflects on our Business for Social Responsibility (BSR) to • Delivering training for our procurement reputation, so it is essential we work in tandem conduct a supply chain risk materiality to ensure we share the same expectations and analysis. The results have helped us teams and suppliers on responsible practices in acting responsibly understand key risks in each supplier spend supply chain management category and are used to identify priority areas for corrective actions. Improving supplier performance and scored below 35/100 to re-assess their Supplier training managing risk progress. Low scoring suppliers will also be All of our procurement team members, With 221 assessments requested from the target of our training efforts in 2017. regardless of the supply categories they suppliers on EcoVadis since 20151, we now manage, were invited to a training on The 100 suppliers who responded to one have a better view of the main risks our the EcoVadis tool and assessment process of our three campaigns represent 48%2 suppliers represent and can mitigate these in 2015. 79%4 of all global and local of our supplier spend. Their average score through corrective action plans. procurement teams have participated was 43/100, which is slightly above EcoVadis in training on responsible supply chain This year we invited an additional 124 average of 42/100. management and how to communicate suppliers to complete assessments. The From the respondents, 38 fell below our with suppliers on sustainability since 2015. group of suppliers invited for assessments threshold assessment score of 35/100. represented the highest risk category In 2016, the same buyers have received We created corrective action plans for each identified in the BSR review, such as suppliers further training on the EcoVadis tool, of these suppliers. We engage with these of contingent labor, security services, call specifically on how to analyze supplier suppliers to follow the implementation of centers and car fleet providers. Going assessment results and create and follow up these action plans and have already seen forward, our focus will be to get all of our corrective action plans. Over 50% of all improvements to supplier performance, for high spend suppliers in risk categories to procurement team members participated to example with our suppliers in Colombia. complete EcoVadis assessments, and to these trainings. In addition, CR teams in all See below for more detail. engage with low performers for improvement markets participated in the same training plans, as well as re-invite those suppliers who and received further in-depth training to be able to work with procurement in follow up actions and engagement. Since launch in 2015, Supplier assessments on EcoVadis3 until the end of 2016 Total number of suppliers invited to complete an EcoVadis 221 assessment Total number of suppliers who completed the assessment 100 Total number of suppliers that do not fulfill our requirements 38 Number of suppliers with improved scores following 2 implementing corrective action plans (CAPs) 1 S uppliers still active on the EcoVadis platform at the Number of corrective action plans (CAPs) requested by category end of 2016. 2 Based on 2015 spend. Additionally, three suppliers Labor Fair business Sustainable assessed were part of a tender, so do not account for Environmental rights practices procurement overall spend data. 3 Since launch in 2015, until the end of 2016. Number of CAPs requested from 35 108 73 44 4 A s a percentage of those who were invited to training. In 2016, we focused our training efforts around suppliers by EcoVadis categories implementing corrective action plans. Millicom Annual Report 2016 78 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Growing responsibly and with purpose – continued 7. Responsible supply chain management Key Completed/achieved In progress When our high-risk, high-spend suppliers have TigoUne has engaged with specific • In El Salvador we partnered with a local scored poorly in EcoVadis assessments, we have suppliers and provided hands-on support CR organization, FUNDEMAS, on supplier accelerated training in CR in selected countries: focusing on key gap areas identified in training. their EcoVadis assessment. • In Colombia we have established a In 2017, we will partner with an organization stakeholder engagement strategy to share • In Paraguay, we introduced a capacity that specializes in delivering CR-related corporate responsibility information building program with eight key SME training, and roll out this training to suppliers among our suppliers. In April and suppliers, each receiving in-depth training across Latin America. December 2016, respectively 50 and over on ethical business conduct, labor 300 suppliers attended training conditions, environmental management focusing on compliance. Additionally, and customer management. Our performance Five-year plan objectives (by 2018): • Full supplier monitoring program in place, including self-assessments and on-site audits • Support capacity building of local suppliers to manage CR-related risks Topic 2016 target Status Our progress in 2016 KPIs 2014 2015 2016 2017 target Supplier Ensure all suppliers We developed a % of strategic 2 61% 79% 79% Expand reporting to monitoring sign the Supplier template for tracking suppliers who % of suppliers who Code of Conduct Supplier Code signings, signed the Supplier refuse to sign the (“Supplier Code”)1 and rolled this out across Code Code and how we operations; and shared manage those cases, guidelines on how to % of all suppliers 9% 27% 36% in line with our manage cases where a who have signed Supplier Code supplier refuses to sign the Supplier Code Guidelines the Supplier Code and escalation of such cases to the Group. Conduct at least Although we only % of spend N/A 53% 48% Increase response two EcoVadis conducted one represented by rate to EcoVadis assessment campaign, the number suppliers who assessment requests campaigns, based of suppliers invited was completed on materiality significantly higher than assessments on assessment the previous campaigns. EcoVadis to date3 See “Improving supplier performance and managing risk” section for more KPIs on EcoVadis assessments. Training to Provide training to We delivered training to % of procurement N/A 65% 79% Continue to provide staff on procurement staff procurement and CR teams trained training to responsible on implementing teams on EcoVadis and on responsible procurement staff supply chain and following how to implement supply chain on implementing management corrective action corrective action plans management4 and following plans on EcoVadis with suppliers. corrective action plans on EcoVadis Supplier Provide training to We already provide Number of New KPI for 2017 Identify a training capacity suppliers in training to suppliers on suppliers trained partner that building responsible our CR strategy and on Millicom’s CR specializes in CR business practices requirements in a strategy and and jointly roll out number of our requirements training to suppliers operations. across LatAm 1 Although we have required our suppliers to sign the Supplier Code of Conduct since 2014, this was not expressed as a formal target in the 2015 CR report. 2 In 2017, we will work towards aligning our reporting definition of “strategic suppliers” with the results of supplier risk materiality analysis and report on percentage of high risk suppliers who signed the supplier Code. 3 Number of suppliers who have been invited to complete self-assessments since beginning of 2015 until end of year 2016. 4 As a percentage of those who were invited to training. In 2016, we focused our training efforts around implementing corrective action plans. Millicom Annual Report 2016 79 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Growing responsibly and with purpose – continued 8. Social investment Progress in 2016 This year our focus has been on: Our priority is to align our social investment activities with our core business mission and • Review of our social investment strategy expertise. To that end, our activities are in Africa to increase digital initiatives focusing on supporting digital and financial • Multi-country commitments and inclusion, education and entrepreneurship – as well as aligning to our material corporate programs in both Latin America responsibility issues, such as child online and Africa protection and supporting diversity. Social investment that draws from our In 2016, we also introduced our global services and expertise volunteering policy that gives employees Supporting customers In Africa, we have refined our social the possibility to volunteer for two working with disabilities investment strategy to have a strong focus days a year. Supporting diversity and inclusion has on investment themes that will support Our overall monetary donations have been in focus in many of our activities the growth and success of our business. decreased as more social investment in 2016. We also supported our operations in resources are linked to our core business, integrating social investment (SI) into A visit from 30 students from the Provolo such as reducing the gender gap among external communication and marketing Institute to the Tigo Paraguay offices our customer base and protecting children roadmaps, to better connect with our provided staff with a valuable insight into online. This means our social investments customers and promote the value Tigo the lives of those who are hearingare focused more on developing digital brings back to our communities. impaired and the daily challenges they solutions, and providing connectivity, face, helping our staff understand diverse In Latin America, we signed a commitment devices and digital literacy training for requirements of our customers. with the Organization of American States underprivileged groups. and their Americas ICT 2030 Alliance. We Following the visit, we donated a Going forward, we look to create more pledged to bring internet connection to 2,100 “telecentro” to the institute. These are multi-country collaborations to increase the schools and public institutions across our shipping containers transformed into a impact of our social investments. In line with LatAm footprint and implement training classroom fully equipped with IT services this aim, in December we pledged to extend programs in child online protection (COP) for and internet. In Paraguay, Tigo has our support to UNICEF by collaborating on parents and teachers by 2030. So far we donated around 170 telecentros across violence prevention and child protection in have connected 1,024 schools and public the country to date. Guatemala, Honduras and El Salvador institutions, giving internet access to 325,000 through a donation and collaboration Meanwhile, in Tigo Bolivia, we delivered students in the region. See page 64 on agreement. sign language training to 84 customer statistics on our COP training programs. service staff this year. With 0.5% of the This commitment builds on our ongoing country’s population hearing-impaired, collaboration on child rights and will serve to this training will help our customer service expand existing UNICEF-supported initiatives staff provide support to a wider group of to improve helplines that ensure children and customers. In addition, the program helps young people receive support and advice raise general awareness on the when they experience violence or abuse. importance of sign language. With Millicom’s support, the helplines will be Social impact investments in 2016 able to expand their capacity and will build US$’000 capability to address online crimes such as M  onetary value of employee sexting, grooming and cyber-bullying. volunteering 237 Millicom will also share its expertise by Total cash providing guidance and technical assistance contributions4,921 In-kind giving in deploying and promoting the child (at cost) 2,420 helplines. Related management overhead costs 2,405 Millicom Annual Report 2016 80 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Growing responsibly and with purpose – continued 8. Social investment LatAm El Salvador As part of the Adopt a School project, in cooperation with USAID and FEDAPE, Tigo El Salvador inaugurated five digital centers in 2016. Each digital center will have 30 computers and free internet Bolivia access for a year. We estimate they will benefit more than 2,260 students, In Bolivia we have played an important 90 teachers and 1,420 families. role in having 28,280 children registered between January 2014 and September 2016, in partnership with the National Electoral Tribunal (Sereci) and UNICEF. This program allows low-income families and those living in remote areas to access a universal, free of charge and timely birth registration. Beyond supporting economically the implementation of this Paraguay project, Tigo also provides free internet Tigo Paraguay continues to support the connection to the Sereci’s child Ministry of Health in connecting medical registration booths. staff with their patients across the country online. The aim is to facilitate live medical consultations and remote analysis of Honduras medical exams for patients, many of whom would not have had access to such Tigo Honduras, in alliance with the services due to geographic distance and/ Ministry of Environment and Amitigra or other demands on their own resources. Foundation, will take part in a Costa Rica Within 18 months of launch, more than reforestation program of 300 hectares 135,000 direct users benefited at no cost of pine trees over the next three years Tigo Costa Rica in partnership with to the patients. in two areas: Parque Nacional la Tigra and Fundación Paniamor and Ideas en Acción implemented the “Apps for Good” This year almost 100 hospitals were San Jose watershed. The project started in program that teaches high school connected online to the Telemedicina September with 10 hectares, children to program apps with social initiative. The Minister of Health, approximately 5,000 pine trees, with 400 impact. 26 students participating in the Dr. Antonio Barrios, said that the program Tigo volunteers taking part. This project pilot learned about responsible and “responds to a big need from many citizens will be used to offset Tigo Honduras positive uses of technology, social in remote areas”, a valuable reason for it to carbon emissions. entrepreneurship and programming be extended to 176 hospitals. language, and created six app prototypes. Guatemala Through our digital inclusivity and volunteering programs, we built three new schools and refurbished 53 schools in Guatemala, constructing and furnishing digital classrooms – equipped them with 1,200 computers and internet enabled phones, donated 15 water eco-filters and school kits, with over 1,000 children and 40 teachers benefiting. Millicom Annual Report 2016 81 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Growing responsibly and with purpose – continued 8. Social investment Africa Chad Tigo Chad, in partnership with The Digital Changemakers 2015 winner Technidev – a project that provides online quality educational content – launched an online campaign to teach IT skills to 900 young people. In September, all students participated in a ceremony with the Minister of Education and the Minister of Youth to receive a certificate of successful completion. As part of our commitment to promote diversity at our workplace, we are offering internships to ten young women who participated in the training. Ghana Volunteering program The “Literacy 4 Life” reading camps launches in our is a project implemented by the 2014 co-winner of Tigo Digital Changemakers corporate offices Rwanda Award, Sheila Osei-Boakye. The traveling reading camps are geared towards To mark the launch of our volunteering program, employees in Luxembourg and Launched in June 2016, Ruhunda complementing teachers’ efforts by helping London organized fundraising activities Ekocenter is a partnership between Tigo to train children to develop the vital literacy to support building of a sewing and Rwanda, Coca Cola, Pentair and Ericsson skills to become proficient readers. By the embroidery training center at the SOS that provides 25,000 local residents with end of August 2016, the reading camps Village d’Enfants in N’Djamena – an a hub where they can enjoy wi-fi enabled had succeeded in visiting all the five rural orphanage Tigo Chad has been working internet access, mobile charging units communities: Afienya, Apollonia, Ashaiman, with since 2010. Overall, both offices and access to clean drinking water. Otchebleku and Mobole. So far, this project raised over US$24,300 and organized has improved 3,000 children’s literacy skills. a total of 13 activities to raise funds. Through this partnership, we also improved the residents’ access to high-speed Literacy 4 Life hopes to eradicate illiteracy internet, where we upgraded our services among children in Ghana by 2030, and it from 2G to 3G. Tigo is also providing free strives to reach 10,000 children by 2021. wi-fi access to medical staff the Tanzania neighboring Ruhunda Health Clinic. Zantel has donated Tshs 10 million to the Association of Seaweed Farmers in Zanzibar. Going forward, Zantel will conduct training for 2,000 women in the Senegal year 2016–2017 in entrepreneurship and finance management both online and In partnership with Reach for Change, offline, in collaboration with the Tigo Senegal laid the first cornerstone of University of Zanzibar in areas of the Aiwa CyberCase building in Diakhao, management. Seaweed farming is an Fatick region in April. The CyberCase will important economic activity in the provide a multi-functional room of 50 communities of the islands of Unguja and machines, a video-conference room, a Pemba. This type of farming is mostly cinema club and an internet cafe. dominated by women, with 80% of the Furthermore, it will also enable women to over 20,000 farmers being women. run their own businesses. Finally, the project aims to establish digital platforms in rural areas and remote locations allowing students to have access to powerful IT tools. Millicom Annual Report 2016 82 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Growing responsibly and with purpose – continued 8. Social investment Key Completed/achieved In progress Our performance Long-term objectives • Connect 2,100 schools and public institutions to the internet by 2030 in Latin America • Implement a volunteering program with digital education initiatives in all our markets by 2020 Topic 2016 target Status Our progress in 2016 KPIs 2014 2015 2016 2017 target Investing Roll out social We have defined KPIs for Schools and public New KPI 1,061 Additional 100 for impact impact our digital inclusion institutions for 2016 schools connected measurement and programs. These align connected to in LatAm report first results with commitments internet in 2016 CR Report signed and our COP program. Number of New KPI 375 Additional 50,000 students for 2016 students connected connected (’000) % of in-kind New KPI 20% Increase to 25% contributions for 2016 directed at digital inclusion initiatives Continue We have continued Tigo Number of social 19 17 3221 Focus on increasing identifying Digital Changemakers entrepreneurs the social impact innovative and Award in all Africa supported in of entrepreneurs digitally driven countries, and four operations with winning the award ideas and solutions LatAm countries. Tigo Digital to date Changemakers Award or similar activities per year Volunteering Roll out We rolled out our Number of N/A 20,335 21,915 Increase and volunteering policy volunteering policy volunteering hours volunteering hours donations and align across all operations and by 15% documentation of corporate offices. Monetary value 445 247 237 volunteering hours of employee volunteering (US$’000) Continue social Social investments have Total cash 7,582 5,814 4,921 Continue social investment through reduced in line with our contributions investment through cash and in-kind operational efficiency (US$’000) cash and in-kind contributions initiatives and as we contributions focus our resources more Total in-kind 4,160 3,993 2,420 on supporting contributions communities with our (US$’000) products and services. Total management 1,303 2,357 2,405 overhead contributions (US$’000) 1 As of 2016, we will report on the total number of social entrepreneurs who receive either financial or mentorship support. Millicom Annual Report 2016 83 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Awards and performance in 2016 Latin America: Colombia Held our top place as the most transparent telecommunication company in Colombia on Transparencia por Colombia’s transparency index. Bolivia Ranked fourth most sustainable business Inclusion in Ethibel Excellence out of 100 top companies of Bolivia in Investment Register MERCO’s corporate reputation rankings. For the second consecutive year, Millicom International Cellular S.A. has been selected for inclusion in the Ethibel EXCELLENCE Pablo Guardia, Tigo Bolivia General Manager Investment Register. This selection by was recognized as a CSR hero for children by Forum ETHIBEL indicates that the Company UNICEF Bolivia under “Héroes de la RSE por la niñez”. performs better than average in its sector in terms of corporate responsibility. El Salvador World Tigo El Salvador was recognized as one of the 30 most responsible companies CDP Climate Change Survey Economic in Central America, in a recent publication This is the seventh year we have reported Forum by the World Economic Forum. our greenhouse gas emissions to the CDP Climate Change Survey. We continue to Honduras For the seventh year in a row, Tigo Honduras improve our environmental performance, with was recognized as a socially responsible our B-level rating is well-above the industry company by Fundahrse. average on CDP’s climate change survey. Shortlisted for Best Sustainability Report Millicom’s 2015 Corporate Responsibility Africa: Report was shortlisted for the “Best Sustainability Report” award at EthicalCorp’s Ghana Tigo Ghana, UNICEF and Births and Deaths seventh Annual Responsible Business Awards Registry’s Automated Birth Registration: 2016 – one of the world’s leading corporate Changing Lives Award – Africacom awards responsibility and reporting awards. Tigo Shelter for Education: CSR initiative of the year – Ghana CSR Excellence Awards Outstanding Woman in Technology – Roshi Motman, Tigo Ghana CEO – Ghana Information Technology and Telecom Awards Millicom Annual Report 2016 84 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials About the CR performance section Introductory statement Geographical scope of the CR performance data This is our fifth annual corporate responsibility (CR) report. In line with This year, we are aligning our CR management and reporting for our our mission to lead the adoption of The Digital Lifestyle™ in our newly merged or acquired businesses in Colombia and Tanzania. In markets, and our belief that our corporate reporting should reflect the 2015, we had expanded the scope of our reporting to include data way we work, this year we have taken a leap forward in integrating from our fixed services business in Colombia, following our merger our financial and corporate responsibility reporting. with UNE in 2014. This year, our reporting expands to all other subsidiaries in Colombia (with the exception of headcount related This report has been produced following the Global Reporting data from EMTELCO) and Zantel in Tanzania. Initiative (GRI) G4 Guidelines and its reporting principles. The report covers our operations in 12 markets and our corporate The report continues to be externally assured. For the scope of offices in Luxembourg, the US and the UK. Our African markets external assurance we commissioned and the assurance standards covered are Chad, Ghana, Rwanda, Senegal and Tanzania; while in our auditors follow, please see EY’s Independent Limited Assurance Latin America we cover our operations in Bolivia, Colombia, Costa Report on the next page. Rica, El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras and Paraguay. As per our Our materiality process previous reports, this report does not include data from our In 2014, we set a clear CR strategy and roadmap for the next five operations in Nicaragua, as our business in that country focuses solely years. In this report, we demonstrate the strong progress we made in on fixed services for the corporate sector. Comparative data from 2016 against our strategy in implementing key initiatives. We outline 2015 covers operations as described above and in addition, our focus, highlights from our work, and any challenges we faced in operations from the Democratic Republic of Congo which we sold in 2016 and our plans to continue improving our performance. April 2016. The report covers our eight most material CR topics, which were Time boundaries for the CR performance data confirmed through a comprehensive process of interviews and surveys Quantitative data in this report covers our progress and performance with our key stakeholders during 2015. Our materiality methodology from Q4 2015 to Q3 2016, with these exceptions: can be found in more detail on page 12 of this report. • Any headcount related data is reported against the financial year. Building on the methodology for engaging with our stakeholders and • Numbers of employee and contractor fatalities are reported conducting the Group CR materiality assessment, in 2016 we finalized against the financial year. a country-level CR materiality assessment with our most important stakeholders across all operations. The results of these can be found • In line with our business definitions, supplier Code of Conduct on our country fact sheets, available on our website. signings related data reflects 18 months of data; from Q2 2015 to Q3 2016. In this report we outline our approach, ambition, performance against key indicators, and our future priorities for each of the • Number of whistleblowing cases; Code of Conduct and anti-bribery material topics. and anti-corruption (ABAC) training data are reported against financial year. • Any other data point that may not be in line with the boundaries as described above are footnoted. Millicom Annual Report 2016 85 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Independent limited assurance report Millicom Annual Report 2016 86 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Independent limited assurance report – continued Millicom Annual Report 2016 87 Governance For the year ended 31 December 2016. 89 Chairman’s Report 90 Directors’ Financial and Operating Report 92 Shareholder and Board governance 92 Corporate Governance Framework 94 Shareholders and shareholders’ meeting 95 Board of Directors and Board committees 103 Board committees 103 Audit Committee 109 Compliance and Business Conduct Committee 111 Compensation Committee: Remuneration Report 119 Millicom CEO and Executive Team 123 Management governance 127 Management responsibility statement Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Chairman’s Report The Governance section of Millicom’s 2016 Annual Report sets out Millicom’s commitment to good corporate governance and describes what has been achieved during the year. I was appointed as Chairman in May 2016, together with three other new Board members, and I strongly believe that we have the right mix of skills and experience in place. In addition, Millicom’s executive Board changes Strength through diversity management team, led by Mauricio During 2016, we welcomed four new Building strong governance functions and Ramos, is now complete following the Board members, all of whom joined us in acting with integrity remain at the forefront appointment of new members to the May 2016. Ms. Janet Davidson brings to of our commitment to good corporate Executive Management team. the Board significant experience in the governance, a commitment that will continue telecommunications and IT sectors in a in the decisions we make. Millicom’s Board of Directors “the Board” variety of strategy, operations and and its committees have dealt with a number Millicom’s strength is partly attributable to compliance areas. Ms. Davidson is a member of significant matters during the year, the diversity of people in our operating of the Compliance and Business Conduct including the setting up of the Compliance countries, regional offices and headquarters. Committee. and Business Conduct Committee and a We value different perspectives and strengthening of our compliance program. Mr. Simon Duffy also brings us extensive encourage sharing of viewpoints, benefiting Governance and compliance remain at the knowledge in telecommunications and media from the wide range of experience and forefront of decision making and strategic businesses and in emerging markets, and his backgrounds across the Group. These are direction. During the year, the activities of experience from many board roles. Mr. Duffy important elements that we will continue to the former Government Relations and is a member of the Audit Committee. foster as part of Millicom’s corporate culture. Corporate Responsibility Committee were Mr. José Miguel García Ferrández joins us Compliance assumed by the full Board. This area now having previously been the CEO of Jazztel in During 2016, we continued a thorough benefits from a more diverse experience Spain and formerly various positions within review of our compliance programs, that can be brought to bear on the broad Cable & Wireless. Mr. García brings to the supported by the Executive Management range of topics and geographical spread group his broad experience in leading and our Compliance and Business Ethics of these issues. transformational telecommunications team, to further strengthen the practices Role of the Board businesses in international markets. we already have in place. Executive The Board is responsible for deciding Mr. García is Deputy Chairman of the Board Management fully dedicated itself to this Millicom’s strategy, financial objectives and and serves as a member of the Audit process through several initiatives and operating plans. The Board also plans for Committee and the Compensation enhancements this year, as discussed herein. CEO succession and reviews and approves Committee. In its first full year of operation the plans for other senior management positions. Compliance and Business Conduct In addition, I joined the Board as Chairman. Committee led this transformational process. I am also the Chairman of Kinnevik AB, Millicom’s largest shareholder and have On behalf of the Board, I would like to various other non-executive director roles confirm our commitment to strong corporate across a range of industries. governance. We are committed to contributing to build a first class Millicom I would like to thank Ms. Cristina Stenbeck, culture of compliance and we reassert our Mr. Anders Borg, Dame Amelia Fawcett and belief that Millicom can be a force for good Mr. Paul Donovan, the departing members of through our dedication to ethics and the Board, for their service to the Board and compliance in all of our markets. We look its committees. forward to engaging with you and thank you for being part of our journey. Tom Boardman Chairman of the Board of Directors Millicom Annual Report 2016 89 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Directors’ Financial and Operating Report 1 Group performance Profit before taxes at US$71 million included In 2016, we made substantial progress the effects of the increase in interest towards our strategic goal of a two-fold expenses described above as well as the reconfiguration of our business, rapidly impairment of the value of our interest in growing mobile data and building cable LIH, an equity investment. while pushing ahead with major initiatives The Group net tax charge in 2016 was to enhance our operational efficiency. US$180 million leaving a net loss for the The scope changes that occurred on year from continuing operations at 31 December 2015 (see “scope changes” US$(109) million. The profit of US$19 million section on page 28) make the performance from discontinued operations reflected the and results of the Group not directly profit on the sale of our business in DRC. comparable between 2015 and 2016 – As a result, the net loss for the year was results for the year ended 31 December 2015 US$(90) million. The share of losses of included Guatemala and Honduras fully non-controlling interests was US$58 million. consolidated while those for 2016 do not. The net loss for the year attributable to In 2016, total revenue for the Group was Millicom owners was US$(32) million. US$4,374 million. In Colombia, our largest Earnings per share was (0.32) cents. market, we saw competitive pressures Share Capital throughout 2016, although easing At 31 December 2016, Millicom had somewhat at the end of the year. 101.7 million issued and paid up common Gross profit was US$3,096 million, or a shares of par value US$1.50 each, of which margin of 70.8%. 1.4 million were held by the Company as treasury shares (2015: 1.6 million). During the Operating expenses represented only 40.7% year the Company acquired approximately of revenue. Operational efficiencies achieved 37,000 shares and issued around 208,000 during the first year of our Project HEAT shares to management and employees initiatives underpinned our margins and cash under the LTIP remuneration plans and flow, delivering a lower operating cost run approximately 8,000 shares to Directors as rate as well as Capex and working capital part of their annual remuneration. savings during 2016. Distribution to shareholders and Our operating profit amounted to proposed distributions US$482 million, an 11% margin. On 17 May 2016, at the Annual General Net financial expenses were US$372 million, Meeting of shareholders, a dividend including one-off costs in respect of our distribution of US$2.64 per share was tender offers in December 2016 for approved, and subsequently paid to US$300 million of outstanding bonds, and shareholders. for the early redemption of our Swedish This year’s proposed dividend is consistent Krona bond due in 2017. with distributions in 2015 and 2016. 1 Alternative performance measures presented in this report are non-GAAP measures that are presented to provide readers with additional financial information that is regularly reviewed by management and used to make decisions about operating matters. It should not be viewed in isolation or as an alternative to the equivalent GAAP measure. See “Additional information” on pages 197 to 200 for definitions and reconciliations to the closest respective equivalent IFRS measure. Millicom Annual Report 2016 90 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Directors’ Financial and Operating Report – continued Risks and uncertainty factors Management and employees TV Cable Parana The Group operates in an industry and in Over recent years, the Group has developed On 6 January 2017, after obtaining the markets which are characterized by rapid many key functions and improved support necessary regulatory approvals, Tigo change and subject to macro-economic, to local operations, including in the areas Paraguay completed the acquisition of TV competitive and political uncertainty. This of procurement, network development, Cable Parana for a total consideration of change creates opportunities and at the marketing, IT, governance, compliance and approximately US$19 million. same time a degree of risk. Many of the finance. During 2016 the remaining Executive Tigo Senegal and HTA inherent underlying risks in these markets, Management team positions of Chief Human We have agreed to sell our business in including regulatory change (including tariff Resources Officer, Chief Strategy Officer and Senegal to Wari Group, subject to regulatory controls and taxation), currency fluctuations Chief Compliance Officer were filled. approvals. The transaction represents an and underlying macro-economic conditions, At 31 December 2016, the Group’s headcount enterprise value for Tigo Senegal of impact on customers’ disposable income reached approximately 18,000 up from almost US$129 million. We have also initiated a and demand for our products and services. 16,000 at 31 December 2015. process to sell our 22% stake in Helios The telecommunications, cable and content Towers Africa. industries continue to evolve at an Outlook for the Group unprecedented pace, with access to the Based on constant currency, at a constant internet and streaming services gathering perimeter with Guatemala and Honduras pace and spreading to all parts of the world. fully consolidated, and on our current Staying competitive in this increasingly assessment of the macroeconomic outlook, Tom Boardman diverse business requires constant innovation, we currently expect for 2017 organic service Chairman of the Board of Directors a strong focus on customer experience, offer revenue growth to be in the low single-digit of relevant products and services, strategic range, and ahead of the growth we achieved partnerships, quality of content, service and in 2016. Whilst we expect robust competition speed of delivery. in Colombia to continue, and voice and SMS revenues across LatAm to decline further Access to, and investing capital in the right through 2017, the lower weighting of these place at the right time, directly impacts on within our overall mix, combined with further competitive advantage, and decision making strong growth in our mobile data, home and in this regard remains key to ensuring a B2B revenues, allows us to be more confident balance of risk and return in the Group. about our revenue growth outlook in 2017. Further information on these and other key We expect to make further progress in risks faced by the Group are set out in section configuring our cost base in 2017, driven by Risk Management from pages 31 to 44. both operational leverage and our Project Financial risk management objectives Heat initiatives. We therefore expect to and policies deliver organic growth in EBITDA in the Millicom’s financial risk management policies mid-to-high single-digit range, and again and objectives, together with a description higher than the growth seen in 2016. of the various risks and hedging activities By growing EBITDA and targeting our undertaken by the Group, are set out in investment program on our areas of core Section D. Financial Risk Management of revenue growth – fiber and 4G network the Consolidated Financial Statements. roll-out with converged IT infrastructure – Controls and risk management in we expect to deliver operating cash flow preparation of the consolidated growth in 2017 of around 10%. financial statements Subsequent events Internal controls and additional information Dividend on the preparation of the Consolidated On 7 February 2017, Millicom’s Board decided Financial Statements are set out in section to propose to the Annual General Meeting of Risk Management from pages 31 to 44. the shareholders a dividend distribution of Non-financial information US$2.64 per share to be paid out of Millicom Non-financial information such as retained profits subject to the shareholders’ environmental, social, human rights and fight approval of the 2016 Consolidated Financial against corruption are set out in section Statements of the Group. Corporate Responsibility Performance Review from pages 60 to 87 of this Annual Report. Millicom Annual Report 2016 91 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Shareholder and Board governance Corporate Governance Framework Background Within these frameworks, the Board has Compliance with applicable stock Millicom International Cellular S.A. developed and continuously evaluates exchange rules (“Millicom” or the “Company”) is a public internal guidelines and procedures, as further There has been no infringement of liability company (société anonyme) described below, to ensure quality and applicable stock exchange rules and no governed by the Luxembourg law of transparency of corporate governance breach of good practice on the securities 10 August 1915 on Commercial Companies practices within Millicom. market reported by the stock exchange’s (as amended), incorporated on 16 June 1992, disciplinary committee or the Swedish Swedish Corporate Governance Code and registered with the Luxembourg Trade Securities Council in 2016. The Swedish Corporate Governance Code (the and Companies’ Register (Registre du “Swedish Code”) promotes positive Commerce et des Sociétés de Luxembourg) development of corporate governance. The under number B 40 630. The Millicom Group Code complements laws and regulations and comprises Millicom and its subsidiaries, joint sets its good practice level above regulatory ventures and associates. requirements. The Swedish Corporate Millicom’s shares are listed on Nasdaq Governance Board states that self-regulation is Stockholm in the form of Swedish Depository often preferable to mandatory legislation and Receipts. therefore allows companies to deviate from its rules, following a “comply or explain” Millicom’s Corporate Governance Framework philosophy. is primarily based on the following legislation, principles and regulations: Publication Authority Philosophy Swedish Code of Corporate Governance Guiding Principles Comply or Explain Luxembourg Law Legislation Comply EU Directives and Regulations Legislation Comply Nasdaq Stockholm Issuer Rule Book Regulation Comply Good Stock Market Practice Principles Corporate Citizenship Millicom governance deviated in 2016 in relation to the Swedish Code in the following areas: Code requirement Millicom practice Explanation 1.5 – A shareholder, or a proxy Minutes are signed by the While this represents a representative of a shareholder, chairman of the shareholders’ deviation from the Swedish who is neither a member of the meeting (who is not a member Code, Millicom follows board nor an employee of the of the Board or the Company), Luxembourg Law in company is to be appointed to the meeting Secretary and an connection with procedures verify and sign the minutes of appointed Scrutineer. and rules for its shareholders’ the shareholders’ meeting. meetings. 9.7 – Vesting of share-related Deferred share incentive plans The Company believes that incentive programs to be no contain vesting of 16.5% of this vesting schedule ensures less than three years. granted shares after one year, alignment between the 16.5% after two years, and interests of the Company’s 67% after three years. shareholders and its employees. Millicom Annual Report 2016 92 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Shareholder and Board governance – continued Corporate Governance structure   Millicom’s Corporate Governance structure comprises the following three levels: 1. Shareholders’ meeting Nomination Shareholders and representatives Committee of shareholders. 2. Board of Directors Board of Directors and Committees appointed by the Board from among its members. Compliance and Special Compensation Audit Business Conduct Committee(i) Committee Committee Committee 3. Chief Executive Officer Internal Audit CEO and Executive Management, and its main functions managing governance, risk, compliance and ethics, corporate responsibility, controls and security. Executive Management Team Compliance and Business Risk Corporate Security Business Ethics Control Management Responsibility (i) The special committee was established in 2015 to manage the Board’s response to the potential improper payments on behalf of its Guatemala joint venture. Millicom Annual Report 2016 93 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Shareholder and Board governance – continued 1. Shareholders and shareholders’ meeting The shareholders’ meeting is the highest Nomination Committee decision-making body of Millicom and a Nomination Committee On behalf of: Position forum for shareholders to exercise influence. Ms. Cristina Stenbeck Kinnevik AB Chairman Each shareholder has the right to participate Mr. Tom Boardman Kinnevik AB Member in the shareholders’ meeting and to vote Mr. John Hernander Nordea Investment Funds Member according to the number of shares owned. Mr. Ossian Ekdahl Första AP-fonden Member Shareholders who are not able to attend in person may exercise their rights by proxy. The Nomination Committee is appointed by Promoting Board diversity Millicom’s Articles of Association (as the major shareholders of Millicom. It is not Millicom’s Nomination Committee recognizes amended on 17 May 2016) set the Annual a committee of the Millicom Board. The the importance of diversity in its Board of General Meeting of Shareholders (AGM) to Nomination Committee’s role is to propose Directors for promoting strong corporate be held on the first Thursday of May at 10am decisions to the shareholders’ meeting in a governance, competitive advantage and CET each year. If such day is a public holiday, manner which promotes the common effective decision-making. the meeting will be held during the following interests of all shareholders. The Nomination business day. Millicom’s Articles of Association The Nomination Committee is responsible Committee has a term of office commencing are available in the “Our Governance” section for periodically determining the appropriate at the time of the announcement of the of Millicom’s website. Unless otherwise required skills, perspectives, experiences and interim report for the period January to under Luxembourg law, an extraordinary characteristics required of Board candidates, September each year and ending when a new general meeting must be convened to amend taking into account the Company’s needs Nomination Committee is formed. Decisions any provisions of the Articles of Association. and current Board composition. proposed at the AGM are as follows: The 2016 AGM was held on 17 May 2016, This determination will include knowledge, • Election and remuneration of Directors within six months of the end of the financial experience and skills in areas that are critical of the Board, Chairman of the Board; year (as required by the Swedish Code). At to understanding the Company and its • Appointment and remuneration of the the 2016 AGM, the following key items were business; richness of views brought by external auditor; and decided: different personal attributes such as gender, • Proposal of the Chairman of the AGM. race, age and nationality; and other personal • Approval of the 2015 Consolidated Under the terms of a Nomination Committee characteristics, such as integrity and Financial Statements and distribution of charter, the Nomination Committee consists judgment; and candidates’ commitment to a dividend of $2.64 per share; of at least three members, with a majority the boards of other publicly-held companies. • Election and re-election of the Directors representing the larger shareholders of the The ambition to further improve gender until the date of the 2017 AGM; Company. diversity on the Board has been added to the • Reappointment of Ernst & Young (“EY”) Nomination Committee charter. as the external auditor; The current Nomination Committee was • Approval of remuneration to the Board formed during October 2016, in consultation and auditor and procedures for the with larger shareholders of the Company at Nomination Committee; 31 August 2016 and in accordance with the • Approval of guidelines for the resolution of the 2016 AGM. remuneration of senior management; The table below sets out beneficial ownership • Approval of a Share Repurchase Plan; and of Millicom common shares, par value $1.50 • On the same date an Extraordinary each, by each person who beneficially owns General Meeting was held during which more than 5% of Millicom common stock at several amendments were made to the 31 January 2017. Articles of Association of the Company, including amendment of the date in which the AGM will be held in 2017. Shareholder Number of shares % Shareholding Kinnevik AB 38,559,080 37.9 Dodge & Cox 11,133,236 10.9 Nordea Investment Management AB 5,979,886 5.9 Except as otherwise indicated, the holders listed above (“holders”) have sole voting and investment power with respect to all shares beneficially owned by them. The holders have the same voting rights as all other holders of Millicom common stock. For purposes of this table, a person or group of persons is deemed to have “beneficial ownership” of any shares as of a given date which such person or group of persons has the right to acquire within 60 days after such date. For purposes of computing the percentage of outstanding shares held by the holders on a given date, any security which such holder has the right to acquire within 60 days after such date (including shares which may be acquired upon exercise of vested portions of share options) is deemed to be outstanding, but is not deemed to be outstanding for the purpose of computing the percentage ownership of any other person. Millicom Annual Report 2016 94 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Shareholder and Board governance – continued Independence of the Board: In the event that any Director or officer of the Company may have any personal interest Board of Directors Chairman, Deputy Chairman in any transaction of the Company, the and six members Director shall make known to the Board such personal interest and shall not consider or vote on any such transaction, and such transaction and such Director’s or officer’s Non-Executive Directors 100% interest therein shall be reported to the next Tom Boardman, Odilon Almeida, Simon Duffy, Tomas Eliasson, general meeting of shareholders. Alejandro Santo Domingo; Share ownership requirements – the Janet Davidson, José Miguel García Fernández, Lorenzo Grabau Directors are not required to be shareholders Independent from the Company and its Executive Management of the Company. Share ownership of Directors is included in the Director biographies set out on the following pages. Chairman of the Board Not independent of the major shareholders 25% Tom Boardman, Lorenzo Grabau The Chairman convenes the Board and leads its work. The Chairman is accountable to the Board and acts as a direct liaison between the Board and the management of the Company, through the CEO. Meeting agendas are set together with the CEO, and 2. Board of Directors and Board committees the Chairman acts as the communicator for Board decisions where appropriate. Role of the Board Powers and limitations of the Board The Chairman is elected by the AGM. If the Millicom’s Board of Directors (the “Board”) is Borrowing powers – The Board has Chairman relinquishes the position during responsible for deciding Millicom’s strategy, unrestricted borrowing powers on behalf of the mandate period, the Board is to elect a financial objectives and operating plans. The and for the benefit of Millicom. Chairman from among its members to serve Board also plans for management succession Time and age limit – no age limit exists for until the end of the next AGM. of the CEO and reviews and approves plans being a Director of Millicom. Directors can be for other senior management positions. Deputy Chairman of the Board elected for a maximum period of six years The Deputy Chairman of the Board acts as a As set forth in the Company’s Articles of before either re-election, or ending service. sounding board and provides support for the Association, the Board must comprise at Directors are generally elected annually. Chairman. The Deputy Chairman convenes least six members. The 2016 AGM set the There are no restrictions on the maximum Board meetings and leads its work in the number of Directors at eight, comprising a continuous period that a Director can serve. event the Chairman is unavailable or excused Chairman, a Deputy Chairman and six Directors hold office until their successors are from Board meetings. The Deputy Chairman members (all of whom are Non-Executive elected. may act as an intermediary for other Directors). Restrictions on voting – no contract or Directors if there are conflicts among Board The Board selects the CEO, who is charged other transaction between the Company members or between the Chairman and the with the daily management of the Company and any other person shall be affected or CEO, as and when necessary. and its business. The CEO is responsible for invalidated by the fact that any Director, The Deputy Chairman is elected by the recruiting, and the Chairman of the Board is officer or employee of the Company has a Board, if appropriate. The position of Deputy responsible for approving, the senior personal interest in, or is a director, officer or Chairman is not mandatory and varies management of the company. The Board employee of such other person, except that: according to the particular circumstances. reviews and approves plans for key senior i) such contract or transaction shall be management positions, and the Board negotiated on an arm’s-length basis on supervises, supports and empowers the terms no less favorable to the Company senior management team, and monitors than could have been obtained from an their performance. In accordance with the unrelated third party and, in the case of a Swedish Code, the division of work between Director, the Director shall abstain from the Board and the CEO are set out in “The voting on any matters that pertain to such Rules of Procedure, Instruction to the CEO, contract or transaction at any meeting of and Reporting Instruction”. the Board of the Company, and Further details on the roles and activities of ii) any such personal interest shall be fully the various committees, their responsibilities disclosed to the Company by the relevant and activities are set out later in this section. Director, officer or employee. Millicom Annual Report 2016 95 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Shareholder and Board governance – continued Corporate Secretary • is the chief executive officer or has been Gender of the Board % The Corporate Secretary is appointed by the the chief executive officer of the Company Female 12 Board. The role of the Corporate Secretary is or a closely related company within the Male 88 to ensure that Board members have the last five years, proper advice and resources for performing • is employed or has been employed by the their duties to shareholders under the Company or a closely related company relevant legal frameworks. The Corporate within the last three years, Secretary is also responsible for organization • receives a not insignificant remuneration and coordination of Board and Committee for advice or other services beyond the meetings, and ensuring that the records, or remit of the Board position from the minutes those meetings, reflect the proper Company, a closely related company or a Tenure of Directors exercise of those duties. person in the executive management of 1st year 4 2nd year 1 the Company; 3rd year 1 The Corporate Secretary is also a confidante • has or has within the last year had a 4th year 2 and resource to the Board and senior significant business relationship or other management, providing advice and counsel significant financial dealings with the on Board responsibilities and logistics, and Company or a closely related company as a plays a leading role in the Company’s client, supplier or partner, either individually corporate governance. or as a member of the Executive Chief Executive Officer Management, a member of the Board or a Nationalities The CEO is responsible for leading the major shareholder in a company with such a Swedish 1 development and execution of the business relationship with the Company, Spanish 1 British 1 Company’s strategy with a view to creating • is or has within the last three years been a Italian 1 shareholder value, together with the partner at, or has as an employee American 1 management team. The CEO is responsible participated in an audit of the Company Colombian 1 Brazilian 1 for day-to-day activities of the Company and conducted by, the Company’s or a closely South African1 management decisions, both operating and related company’s current or then auditor, financial. The CEO acts as a direct liaison • is a member of the executive management between the Board and management of the of another company if a member of the Company and communicates to the Board board of that company is a member of on behalf of management. the Executive Management of the Company, or The CEO also leads communication on behalf • has a close family relationship with a of the Company to shareholders, employees, person in the executive management or Government authorities, other stakeholders with another person named in the points and the public. above if that person’s direct or indirect Board membership, balance and business with the Company is of such independence magnitude or significance as to justify the The Board periodically reviews the size and opinion that the Board member is not to balance of the Board to determine whether be regarded as independent. any changes are appropriate. In accordance with the Swedish Code: At the AGM, held in May each year, • the majority of Millicom’s Board must be shareholders may vote for or against the independent from the Company and its Directors proposed by the Nomination Executive Management (all Millicom Committee or may elect different Directors. Directors meet this criteria), and The Board has adopted the qualification • at least two of those independent guidelines of an “independent director” as Directors must also be independent from defined by the Swedish Code. A director’s the Company’s major shareholders (six of independence is determined by a general Millicom’s Directors meet this criteria); and assessment of all factors that may give cause • not more than one member of the Board to question the individual’s independence of may be part of the executive management the Company or its Executive Management. team of the Company or any of its Factors that are considered include whether subsidiaries (no members of the executive the individual: team sit on the Board). Millicom Annual Report 2016 96 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Shareholder and Board governance – continued Board profile – skills and experience Mr. Tom Boardman was elected as a new Mr. Boardman held various managerial Director and Chairman of the Board of positions within the South African mining Millicom in May 2016. He is a member of and retailing industries during 1973 to 1986 the Compensation Committee, the Audit and was founder and Managing Director of Committee, and the Compliance and the Boardmans chain of retail houseware Business Conduct Committee. stores in South Africa. Between 1986 and 2002 he held managerial positions within the Mr. Boardman (1949) is Chairman of the BoE Bank and during 2003 to 2010 he was Board of Kinnevik AB (“Kinnevik”), a leading Chief Executive of Nedbank Group. Swedish entrepreneurial investment group with investments across mobile Mr. Boardman holds a Bachelor of Commerce telecommunications, e-commerce, degree and CTA from the University of entertainment and financial services. Witwatersrand in South Africa and is a Mr. Tom Boardman (South African) chartered accountant having served his Chairman, Non-Executive Director He was elected to the Kinnevik Board in 2011 articles with Deloitte. (First appointed: May 2016) and elected Chairman in May 2016. Mr. Boardman brings to the Millicom Board Mr. Boardman is also a Non-Executive in-depth experience in corporate governance Director of Nedbank Group, Woolworths and oversight of both technology driven Holdings and African Rainbow Minerals, and entrepreneurial businesses as well as financial was a Non-Executive Director of Vodacom groups and retail businesses. Group between 2009 and 2011. Independent from the Company and its Executive Management but NonIndependent due to his significant affiliation to the major shareholder Kinnevik AB. Millicom shareholding at 31 January 2017: 3,000 shares. Mr. García was elected a new member His international background will also further and Deputy Chairman of the Board of broaden the Board’s global perspective and Millicom in May 2016. He is a member of understanding of the dynamics of the the Audit Committee and the markets in which Millicom operates. Compensation Committee. Independent from the Company, its Mr. García (1962) was previously Co-Chief Executive Management, and its major Executive Officer of Orange España. Between shareholders. 2006 and 2015 he was CEO of the Spanish Millicom shareholding at 31 January 2017: telecommunications operator Jazztel, and he 6,553 shares. held various managerial positions within Cable & Wireless from 2000 to 2006, including Managing Director of UK & Ireland Mr. José Miguel García Fernández as well as CEO of Panama. (Spanish) Deputy Chairman, Non-Executive Director Mr. García holds a BSc in Electrical & (First appointed: May 2016) Electronic Engineering and Postgraduate in Digital Telecommunications from Monash University in Australia. Mr. García contributes to Millicom’s Board his relevant experience as an entrepreneurial Chief Executive Officer within the telecommunications and cable sectors. Millicom Annual Report 2016 97 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Shareholder and Board governance – continued Mr. Odilon Almeida was elected as a technology platforms, regulatory and member of the Board of Millicom in May compliance, as well as consumer insights of 2015 and re-elected in May 2016. He is developed and emerging nations. Chairman of the Compliance and Mr. Almeida has a bachelor’s degree in Civil Business Conduct Committee. Engineering from Maua Engineering School Mr. Almeida (1961) is the President for the in São Paulo, Brazil, and in Business Americas and European Union Region at the Administration from the University of São Western Union Corporation. With a 14-year Paulo, and also holds an MBA with tenure, Mr. Almeida is spearheading the specialization in Marketing from the Getulio digital transformation and growth of the Vargas Foundation, São Paulo. He advanced company. He leads 98 countries across North his education at IMD Lausanne, The America, Latin America, the Caribbean and Wharton School, and Harvard Business Mr. Odilon Almeida (Brazilian) Europe. School. Non-Executive Director (First appointed: May 2015) With a 30-year career in global financial, Mr. Almeida strengthens the Millicom Board telecom and fast moving consumer goods with decades of experience from the sectors, Mr. Almeida brings a leadership style financial services and Fintech sectors. anchored in growth acceleration and Independent from the Company, its business turnarounds involving digital Executive Management, and its major transformation, organic growth and shareholders. successful M&A. Millicom shareholding at 31 January 2017: His board experience, along with business 1,553 shares. leadership at Western Union, Millicom, BankBoston (now Bank of America), The Coca-Cola Company and Colgate-Palmolive, has given him deep knowledge of corporate governance, general management, Ms. Janet Davidson was elected as a new She brings to Millicom’s Board her long member of the Board of Millicom in May experience in the telecommunications and 2016. She is a member of the Compliance IT sectors. and Business Conduct Committee. Ms. Davidson received a Bachelor of Arts degree Ms. Davidson (1958) is currently a Supervisory in physics from Lehigh University, a Master of Board member of STMicroelectronics. Science degree in Electrical Engineering from Georgia Tech, and a Master of Science in Ms. Davidson held various managerial Computer Science through Bell Laboratories. positions in Alcatel Lucent from 1979 to 2011 including the role as Chief Strategy Officer, Independent from the Company, its Chief Compliance Officer and Executive Vice Executive Management, and its major President, Quality & Customer Care. shareholders. Ms. Janet Davidson (American) She has been a Member of Supervisory Millicom shareholding at 31 January 2017: Non-Executive Director Board of STMicroelectronics since June, 2013. 895 shares. (First appointed: May 2016) She serves as a Member of the Advisory Board. She has also been recognized by Working Woman Foundation with one of its first Women Enabling Science and Technology awards in 2001. In 1999, she was inducted into the Academy of Women Achievers of the YWCA of the City of New York, which honors women of high achievement. Millicom Annual Report 2016 98 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Shareholder and Board governance – continued Mr. Simon Duffy was elected as a new He brings to Millicom’s Board his extensive member of the Board of Millicom in May experience in telecommunications and 2016. He is a member of the Audit media businesses as well as emerging Committee. markets. Mr. Duffy (1949) is Non-Executive Chairman Independent from the Company, its of YouView TV and a Non-Executive director Executive Management, and its major of Modern Times Group, Oger Telecom shareholders. and Wizz Air. Millicom shareholding at 31 January 2017: Mr. Duffy was Executive Chairman of Tradus 895 shares. until the company’s sale in March 2008. He was also Executive Vice Chairman of Mr. Simon Duffy (British) ntl:Telewest until 2007, having joined ntl in Non-Executive Director 2003 as CEO. He has also served as CFO of (First appointed: May 2016) Orange, CEO of wireless data specialist End2End, CEO and Deputy Chairman of WorldOnline International, and held senior positions at EMI Group and Guinness. Mr. Duffy holds a BA from Oxford University and an MBA from Harvard University. Mr. Tomas Eliasson was elected as a Mr. Eliasson brings to the Millicom Board his member of the Board of Millicom in May significant experience as a CFO for 2014 and has been re-elected each year multinational and global Swedish companies, since. He chairs the Audit Committee. roles in which he has driven a number of important and effective processes and Mr. Eliasson (1962) is Executive Vice procedures within global finance functions. President, Chief Financial Officer of Sandvik. Independent from the Company, its Previously Mr. Eliasson was the Chief Executive Management, and its major Financial Officer and Senior Vice-President of shareholders. Electrolux, the Swedish household and professional appliances manufacturer. Millicom shareholding at 31 January 2017: 2,140 shares. Mr. Eliasson has also held various Mr. Tomas Eliasson (Swedish) management positions in Sweden and Non-Executive Director abroad, at the leading power and (First appointed: May 2014) automation technologies company ABB Group, from 1987 to 2002. Mr. Eliasson was Chief Financial Officer of the tools manufacturer Seco Tools AB from 2002 to 2006 and Chief Financial Officer of the intelligent lock and security solutions company Assa Abloy AB from 2006 to 2012. Mr. Eliasson holds a Bachelor of Science Degree in Business Administration and Economics from the University of Uppsala. Millicom Annual Report 2016 99 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Shareholder and Board governance – continued Mr. Lorenzo Grabau was elected to the Mr. Grabau brings to the Millicom Board his Board of Millicom in May 2013 and has experience from leadership positions within been re-elected each year since. He is the the Consumer/Retail and Media/Online Chairman of the Compensation industry practices of Goldman Sachs, and his Committee. experience on Boards of entertainment and technology companies, as well as his former Mr. Grabau (1965) is the former Chief role as CEO of Kinnevik. Executive Officer of Kinnevik. Independent from the Company, its Mr. Grabau began his career as an analyst for Executive Management, but Nonthe investment bank Merrill Lynch, in the Independent due to his former role as mergers and acquisitions department, before CEO of the major shareholder Kinnevik AB. joining Goldman Sachs International, where Mr. Lorenzo Grabau (Italian) he later became Partner and Managing Millicom shareholding at 31 January 2017: Non-Executive Director Director (1999). 5,140 shares. (First appointed: May 2013) Mr. Grabau is a member of the Board of Directors of the leading European fashion e-commerce company Zalando SE, of the telecommunications operator Tele 2 AB, and of the Nordic e-commerce and financial services provider Qliro Group AB. Mr. Grabau holds a degree in Economics and Business from La Sapienza University, Italy. Mr. Alejandro Santo Domingo was first In the non-profit sector, he is Vice Chairman elected to the Board of Millicom in May of the Wildlife Conservation Society, a 2013 and has been reappointed each year Member of the Board of Trustees of the since. He is a member of the Compliance Metropolitan Museum of Art, and the and Business Conduct Committee. Educational Broadcasting Corporation (WNET Channel Thirteen). Mr. Santo Domingo (1977) is a Senior Managing Director at Quadrant Capital Mr. Santo Domingo is a Member of the Board Advisors, Inc. in New York City. and Treasurer of Aid for AIDS, a foundation dedicated to helping HIV and AIDS patients; He is a member of the Board of Directors and Chairman of Alas, a foundation focused of Anheuser-Busch Inbev (ABI) having on early childhood development which was previously been a board member at founded by artists such as Shakira & Mr. Alejandro Santo Domingo SABMiller Plc and Vice-Chairman of Alejandro Sanz. (Colombian) SABMiller Plc for Latin America. Non-Executive Director Mr. Santo Domingo is a Member of the Board Mr. Santo Domingo is Chairman of the Board (First appointed: May 2013) of DKMS Americas; a foundation dedicated of Bavaria S.A. in Colombia, and Chairman of to finding donors for leukemia patients. Backus & Johnston, in Peru. He is Chairman He is a Member of the Board of Endeavor of the Board of Valorem, a company which Colombia and Fundacion Pies Descalzos. manages a diverse portfolio industrial & media assets in Latin America. Mr. Santo Domingo holds a Bachelor of Arts Degree from Harvard University. Mr. Santo Domingo is also a director of JDE (Jacobs Douwe Egberts) Keurig Green Independent from the Company, its Mountain; Florida Crystals, the world’s largest Executive Management, and its major sugar refiner; Caracol TV, Colombia’s leading shareholders. broadcaster; El Espectador, a leading Millicom shareholding at 31 January 2017: Colombian Daily; and Cine Colombia, 7,140 shares. Colombia’s leading film distribution and movie theater company. Millicom Annual Report 2016 100 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Shareholder and Board governance – continued Board program The Board’s annual program includes • Government relations • Evaluation of CEO and self-evaluation • Corporate culture • Human Resource matters • Company strategy and strategic direction • External financial reporting including compensation, health, • Operating and financial performance review • Risk management safety and well-being • Governance and compliance matters • Dividend policy • Corporate Responsibility Summary of Board activities in 2016 The Board of Directors has an annual There will be specific projects and topics that Some of these topics are dealt with in the program which consists of specific areas of will arise in the normal course of business which specific Board committees. focus that the Board has a role to oversee will be added to the program of the Board. and advise the Company on. Summary of areas of focus in 2016 Activity/issues covered Board actions Reports of committees • The Board regularly reviewed reports from its Audit, Compliance and Business Conduct, Special, and Compensation Committees on recent activities. • Discussion of Nomination Committee Director appointment proposals. Incorporation of committee • Incorporation of the activities previously delegated to the Government Relations and Corporate activities Responsibility Committee into the agenda of the full Board. Operational Review • Priorities and challenges for each of the Latin American and African businesses were regularly presented and discussed by the Board, including development of cable and mobile data businesses, efficiency measures and capital expenditure allocation. Strategic Review • The Board discussed with the Executive Team industry and geographic trends and the operational and financial strategy for each region of the Group, including the portfolio strategy. Organizational structure • The Board approved new hires into the Executive Team and management organizational and reporting structures. Budget • The Board discussed and approved the 2017 budget. Review and approval of • Refinancing of the Swedish Krona bond. capital structure and • Amendment of existing terms and conditions of certain bonds. dividend • Additional financing in several markets. • Recommendation of a dividend of $2.64 per share to the 2016 AGM. Review and approval of • Revisions to the Corporate Policy Manual (including Board and Committee charters). corporate governance • Updates to the Authority matrix. matters • Election of Committee members. Mergers, acquisitions • The Board discussed acquisition and disposal developments across the Group, including approval of and disposals transactions such as the sale of the Group’s business in the Democratic Republic of Congo. Review and approval of • 2015 Annual Report including the 2015 Consolidated Financial Statements of the Group, and interim financial reports consolidated financial statements. • Standalone financial statements of the parent company. The external affairs • Review of the the finalized external affairs strategic framework and functions for suitability for the organization organization’s need. Political environment • Periodical reviews of the political situation per market with a specific focus on election periods and advice on risk management required in relation thereto. Government relations, • Review of the state of government relations in markets and internationally. engagement and • Review of regulatory and engagement challenges with advice from the Board on best practice engagement regulatory affairs strategy. Millicom’s non-financial • Review of main non-financial performance and trends. performance • Recommendation for continued focus in line with existing non-financial focus areas. Update on privacy and • Updates provided to the Board on continued proactive approach being taken by Millicom in relation to freedom of expression issue these issues, including specific country cases. The Board recognizes the significant importance of these topics and is supportive of continued efforts to improve engagement and in-house expertise in this area. Child Protection • Briefing of the Board of Millicom’s efforts in child protection and risk areas relating to the same. Gender diversity program • Update to the Board on transfer of ownership of internal gender diversity program to the HR function. Millicom Annual Report 2016 101 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Shareholder and Board governance – continued Induction and training Board effectiveness Incoming Board members are provided with The Board conducts an annual performance information on their roles and responsibilities, review process, wherein each Board operating procedures and information on member’s personal performance is also Millicom’s business and industry. Access to reviewed. The review process involves an governance documents, policies and assessment of the Board’s and its procedures, as well as meeting materials and committees’ actions and activities during the Company information is provided through a year against the Board’s mandate as secure online tool, in meetings set with the determined in the Board Charter (and those Executive Management team, and in of its various committees). ongoing dissemination of information. The evaluation of the Board’s performance Training programs covering key topics such as during 2016 was conducted by the Chairman anti-bribery and corruption, ethics, of the Board by way of a formal independence and insider trading are questionnaire covering areas such as the provided. On an ongoing basis the Board Board’s performance against its key duties, receives detailed reports on specific areas the Board’s composition and processes, as that support their understanding of well as the performance of individual Board Millicom’s business and operating members. The results of the evaluation were environment. presented to the Nomination Committee by the Chairman of the Board, and were also Millicom Directors also attend an annual visit reported in full to the Nomination to one of Millicom’s operations, during which Committee in writing. time they are informed of the specific characteristics of the local market, conduct field trips to see aspects of the business in operation, and interact with local management. Board meetings/attendance at scheduled meetings of the Board in the 2016 financial year Director Meeting Attendance % Mr. Tom Boardman (Chairman) 4/4 100 Mr. José Miguel García Fernández (Deputy Chairman) 4/4 100 Mr. Odilon Almeida 6/6 100 Ms. Janet Davidson 4/4 100 Mr. Simon Duffy 4/4 100 Mr. Tomas Eliasson 5/6 83 Mr. Lorenzo Grabau 6/6 100 Mr. Alejandro Santo Domingo 3/6 50 Attendance of current Directors 36/40 90 Former Directors (until May 2016): Ms. Cristina Stenbeck 2/2 100 Mr. Paul Donovan 2/2 100 Mr. Anders Borg 2/2 100 Dame Amelia Fawcett 2/2 100 Overall attendance 44/48 92 Millicom Annual Report 2016 102 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Shareholder and Board governance – continued Board committees The Board and each of its Committees have In 2015, the Board established two new In 2016, the Board incorporated activities written approved charters which set out the committees. A Special Committee was previously delegated to the Government objectives, limits of authority, organization set up to oversee the investigation into Relations and Responsibility Committee into and roles and responsibilities of the Board potential improper payments on behalf the full Board agenda. The Board believed and its Committees. The Board and of the Guatemalan joint venture. The work that the overarching reach of these activities Committee charters can be found on our of this committee continued in 2016. across the various geographical and website www.millicom.com/governance. functional areas, warranted the breadth of In Q4 2015, the Board also established a Details of the roles and responsibilities, experience and knowledge of the full Board. new permanent Compliance and Business activities in 2016 and Directors’ emoluments Conduct Committee to cover compliance are set out on the following pages. related activities. In 2016 this Committee assumed oversight of non-financial compliance related matters from the Audit Committee. Audit Committee 2016 was a very active year for the Audit The Committee also reviewed and discussed Committee, with specific focus and attention actions and activities around the important on control activities of the Group, as well as regulatory updates and upcoming changes in oversight over regular reporting and internal financial reporting, treasury, risk, revenue audit activities. The Committee convened six assurance and compliance. Further work scheduled meetings during the year and remains to be done as the Group continues covered internal audit and internal control to standardize and implement best practices activities during all meetings. both in controls and assurance. I would like to thank my fellow Committee members for their dedication and commitment to the activities of the Audit Committee and look forward to continuing From Mr. Tomas Eliasson our mandate through to the 2017 AGM. Chairman of the Audit Committee Millicom Annual Report 2016 103 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Shareholder and Board governance – continued Audit Committee membership and attendance in 2016 First Meetings/ Audit Committee Position appointment Attendance % Mr. Tomas Eliasson Chairman* May 2014 6/6 100 Mr. Tom Boardman Member May 2016 3/4 75 Mr. Simon Duffy Member May 2016 4/4 100 Mr. José Miguel García Fernández Member May 2016 4/4 100 Mr. Lorenzo Grabau Former member May 2014 1/2 50 Mr. Odilon Almeida Former member May 2015 2/2 100 Overall attendance 20/22 91 *Designated as having specific accounting competence per EU Directive. Appointment and role of the Ultimate responsibility for reviewing and Audit Committee approving Millicom’s Annual Report and The Audit Committee is comprised solely of Accounts remains with the Board. non-executive Directors, the majority of The Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial whom are independent Directors. Members Officer, Group Financial Controller, Head of are appointed to ensure there is a mixture of Internal Audit, Head of Business Controls, relevant experience of both finance and Group Risk Officer and representatives from broader commercial matters. The Board is Ernst & Young (“EY”), the Company’s external confident that the collective experience of auditor, are invited to attend Committee the members enables them to act as an meetings. effective Audit Committee. The Committee is also satisfied that it has the expertise and The agenda for meetings is prepared by the resource available to it to fulfill its Audit Committee Chairman in conjunction responsibilities. with the Chief Financial Officer. Each meeting includes a private session, attended The Board has delegated to the Audit only by Audit Committee members and the Committee the responsibilities for oversight external auditor, to provide an opportunity of the financial reporting process, the for open dialogue without management integrity of the annual and quarterly financial presence. At each meeting, the Audit reports and the involvement of external Committee receives reports from the Chief auditors in that process to ensure the Financial Officer, the external auditor, the balance, transparency and integrity of Head of Internal Audit, the Head of Business published financial information. The Audit Controls, together with reports from other Committee focuses particularly on officers of the Company as required. compliance with financial requirements, accounting standards and judgments, appointment and independence of the external auditors, transactions with related parties (including major shareholders), the effectiveness of the internal audit function, the Group’s approach to risk management and ensuring that an efficient and effective system of internal controls is in place. Millicom Annual Report 2016 104 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Shareholder and Board governance – continued 2016 meetings During 2016, the Audit Committee met six times, coinciding with key dates in Millicom’s external reporting: Activity/issues covered How the Audit Committee addressed the issues Governance • Reviewed and amended Audit Committee Charter. • Reviewed and discussed activities around the implementation of the law of 23 July 2016 in relation to the audit profession and implementing EU regulation 537/2014, as well as its implication for the Audit Committee. Financial reporting • Key accounting and reporting issues were reviewed at each meeting. • Reviewed and approved each quarter’s earnings release, the 2015 annual earnings release and summary financial statements, and the 2016 half year earnings release and interim financial statements. • Reviewed and discussed activities around the implementation of IFRS 15 (“Revenue from Contracts with Customers”) and IFRS 16 (“Leases”), as well as other changes in the financial reporting landscape and accounting policy changes/updates. External auditor • Received reports from the external auditor at each meeting covering important financial reporting, accounting and audit issues. • Approved the 2016 external audit strategy. • Considered the results of control testing performed by the external auditor. • Considered the performance of the external auditor and independence, including monitoring of the nature and value of non-audit services, as well as approving these fees. Internal audit activities • Appointed a new VP, internal audit. • Approved the 2016 internal audit plan. • Reviewed internal audit findings arising from the delivery of the 2016 audit plan. Financing, treasury and tax • The Group’s Tax Director presented the Group’s tax strategy. • Treasury and financing risks were discussed and the Committee approved the updated Group treasury and related policies, including a new policy on financial risk management. • Review and preparation of the implications of Base Erosion Profit Schemes (BEPS) driven disclosures. Risk management • Provided guidance and oversight over risk management processes. • Reviewed alignment of top risks with strategy. • Reviewed regular risk reports and IT remediation plan. Internal controls • Reviewed the remit and proposed activities of the Business Controls team. • Received the summary findings of internal control self-assessments performed in the year against the 2016 internal targets. • Approved 2017 targets for internal control maturity. • Requested and received a report on the Group’s approach to information security. Fraud management • Reviewed fraud policies and quarterly fraud reports, as well as proposed actions to remediate identified cases. Revenue assurance • The Group head of revenue assurance presented on revenue assurance trends and actions taken to minimize loss. Related party transactions • A review of related party transactions was performed at each meeting. Millicom Annual Report 2016 105 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Shareholder and Board governance – continued Main activities of the Audit Committee 3) Measurement of the Group’s interests in The accounting treatment of the latter was during the year Guatemala and Honduras – also refer to presented and discussed with the Financial reporting note A.2.3 of the consolidated financial Committee. The Audit Committee reviewed earnings statements 6) Impairment testing – also refer to note releases for each quarter and financial As required by IFRS, the Group has E.1.6. of the consolidated financial statements, having received reports from completed the measurement at fair value of statements management and the external auditor. the assets and liabilities for Guatemala and Under accounting standards, the Group is Attention was focused on: Honduras operations as of 31 December required to test goodwill and indefinite life 2015, date of recognition of the Group’s • Significant accounting issues where intangible assets annually and, where there investment in both operations as joint judgment has been applied; are indicators of potential impairment, also ventures. For the purchase accounting, • The appropriateness of and application of test the carrying value of other non-current Millicom determined the fair values of these the Group’s accounting policies and assets. Assessment of the recoverable operations based on a discounted cash flow practices; amount, be it under the “value in use” or the model. Similarly to Zantel, final fair values • Compliance with financial reporting “fair value less cost of disposal” model, is based on external valuation advice were standards and other financial reporting subjective and requires significant judgment. presented to the Committee for discussion. requirements; In addition, the Group also tests its • The application of new accounting 4) Guatemala security contracts – also investments in joint ventures and associates standards, in particular the future adoption refer to notes F.1. of the consolidated in case of an impairment indicator. The Audit of the new revenue recognition and lease financial statements Committee received analysis from standards, IFRS 15 and IFRS 16, In 2014, our joint venture in Guatemala Management as to their assessment of the respectively; (55% shareholding) entered into a contract recoverable amounts of the Group’s • The completeness and compliance of all with the Guatemala Government to provide non-current assets, as well as the results of structural disclosures made in the IAS 34; video surveillance to the Civil National Police. the sensitivity analysis. The Audit Committee • The financial reporting implication of BEPS Since inception, no payment had been also received analysis from the external legislation for future reporting. received under this contract. Management auditor, including their view of significant has closely monitored the situation and assumptions such as discount rates. A summary of all related party transactions assessed that the amounts owed under these was presented quarterly. The significant Following consideration, the Audit contracts since inception were not issues considered by the Audit Committee in Committee agreed with Management’s collectable. Additionally, Management relation to the financial statements for the proposal that an impairment loss of considered that, since 1 July 2016, the year ended 31 December 2016 were: US$40 million had to be recognized on our accounting criteria regarding probability of investment in MKC Brilliant Holding GmbH 1) Disposal of the Group’s operations in cash flowing to the Group were no longer (‘LiH’). DRC – also refer to note A.1.4. of the met. Finally, as a result of the above, consolidated financial statements Management performed an impairment test Except for the above, the results of the During 2016, Millicom completed the on the fixed assets acquired for the purpose annual impairment testing showed that disposal of its businesses in the Democratic of rendering these services and concluded sufficient headroom exists for the Group’s Republic of Congo (DRC). The transaction that an impairment should be recorded. other operations. included certain indemnity and warranty The above accounting treatments and 7) Tax provisions and contingencies – also clauses which required management’s decisions required Management judgment refer to note G.3.2. of the consolidated judgment. The effect of disposal and and estimates which were extensively financial statements assessment of provisions for indemnity and discussed with the Committee. The Group operates in many countries where warranty clauses have been presented and the tax and legal system is less mature and discussed with the Committee. 5) Millicom investments in African Internet may be less predictable. There are a number Holding GmbH (AIH) and Helios Towers 2) Acquisition accounting in respect of of matters therefore relating to tax Africa (HTA) – also refer to note A.3.2. of Zantel Telecom Limited – also refer to note contingencies which require judgment as to the consolidated financial statements A.1.2. of the consolidated financial the likely probability of cash outflow or the Millicom’s shareholding in AIH and HTA statements potential amount of any outflow. The Audit diluted during 2016 as a result of previous During the year, the Group completed the Committee therefore received regular reports committed cash calls and new investors’ purchase accounting of Zantel. from the Group Tax Director as to the status funding. As a result, Millicom’s shareholding Management’s assessment of the acquisition of each of these matters, the likely outcome, in both companies reduced to 10% and 23%, final fair values based on external valuation the provision required, if any, and proposed respectively. This has triggered the advice were presented to the Committee for disclosure in the financial statements. recognition of a total net dilution gain of discussion. Analysis of judgmental tax matters was also US$59 million in the Group income presented by the external auditor. statement. Millicom Annual Report 2016 106 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Shareholder and Board governance – continued 8) Deferred tax assets on unused carried Disclosure Committee Internal Audit forward tax losses – also refer to note B.6.3. To assist with all matters relating to earnings The execution of the 2016 Internal Audit of the consolidated financial statements releases and financial statement disclosures, Plan provided Executive Management and During 2016, deferred tax assets on unused the Group has a Disclosure Committee the Audit Committee visibility on the carried forward tax losses have been comprised of senior management from effectiveness of Millicom’s risk management, discussed in relation to our UNE operation in finance, legal, communications, investor internal control and governance processes. It Colombia. The recognition of such deferred relations and other functions as and when was developed to ensure alignment with the tax assets is judgmental and based on required. The Disclosure Committee identifies strategic risks of the Millicom Group, along significant assumptions such as the expected and considers disclosure matters in market with consideration of the overall Group timing and level of future taxable profits releases which contain material financial and strategy, input from senior management together with future tax planning strategies. other price sensitive information. across multiple geographies and functions, external audit findings and Internal Audit’s Management has presented its assessment Risk management knowledge of the business. and judgment to the Audit Committee. The Audit Committee received regular Considering the evidence available as of reports on the Group’s risk management In January 2016, the Audit Committee today, and based on historical losses, it was framework and process, changes to ratified the Internal Audit Plan for the year, decided not to recognize a deferred tax asset significant risks at an operational and a which included reviews focusing on revenue on the carried forward tax losses of UNE in Group level and how these are managed. assurance and billing, information security, IT accordance with IAS 12. Further information is set out in the risk and network resilience, financial control, management section of this Annual Report. regulatory compliance, supplier contract 9) Revenue recognition – also refer to note governance – particularly over large B.1. of the consolidated financial In addition, the Audit Committee reviewed infrastructure support contracts – and the statements financial risk, tax risk and strategy, treasury successful implementation of large IT change Judgment is required in assessing the policy and risks, and Group insurance cover. programs. Follow-up audits were also built application of revenue recognition principles. Internal control into the plan, to provide independent assurance This includes the application of revenue The Audit Committee reviewed the that management actions from previous between multiple deliverables, such as the Company’s internal control framework. The audits had been addressed effectively. sale of a set top box with service in a bundled Audit Committee was focused on the need to package or managed services contracts that The plan was primarily executed by the promote the continued improvement of have complex contractual agreements. The in-house Internal Audit team based in internal controls, including controls around IT Group has developed revenue recognition London, Luxembourg and Miami, with given the Group is strongly dependent on its rules compliant with IFRS, tailored to the specialist support provided by one of the “Big information technology infrastructure for the services and products sold. In addition, 4” accounting firms. At each meeting, the continuity of the business processes. In 2015, Management is currently implementing the Audit Committee received an update on a new Business Controls function was created new revenue standard, IFRS 15. The Audit Internal Audit activities, progress against the at a Group level in order to increase the level Committee received reports and plan and results of the audits completed in of resource and priority given to this issue. presentations from both Management and the period, including associated The Group function complements and the external auditor covering matters relating recommendations and management action supports control teams in each of the Group’s to revenue recognition in general and to the plans where issues had been identified. operating companies. Targets for internal implementation project. control improvement in 2016 were In December 2016, a new Group Head of 10) Potential improper payments on behalf established and the Audit Committee Internal Audit was appointed, having of the Guatemala joint venture and reviewed the Business Controls strategy and performed the role on an interim basis for the Tanzania share ownership issue – also refer received progress reports from the Head of previous 18 months. to note G.3.1. of the consolidated financial Business Controls at each meeting. At the statements December meeting, the Audit Committee On 21 October 2015, Millicom reported to evaluated progress on a country and process law enforcement authorities in the United level against the targets established and States and Sweden potential improper discussed the strategy for internal control payments made on behalf of the Company’s development for 2017. joint venture in Guatemala. In June 2016, Millicom was served by a third party seeking monetary damages and seeking to exert rights as a shareholder of Millicom Tanzania Ltd. The Audit Committee has been updated at least quarterly on the progress of these cases. Millicom Annual Report 2016 107 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Shareholder and Board governance – continued Fraud risk and whistleblowing Auditor independence The Audit Committee received and reviewed The Audit Committee has established quarterly fraud reports in accordance with policies to maintain the independence of the the Group’s Fraud policy. Individual events external auditor and to govern the provision greater than defined quantitative and of audit and non-audit services. Permitted qualitative thresholds were discussed and and prohibited services are clearly identified remediation activities assessed. along with the processes to be followed for the approval of non-audit and audit services, The Group provides an ethics helpline which in accordance with the latest EU and local is administered by an independent third regulations. All engagements require Audit party and is available to all employees and Committee approval and additionally all contractors. engagements with an expected fee in excess External Audit of US$100,000 require the prior approval of Audit effectiveness the Audit Committee Chairman. A schedule The quality and effectiveness of the external of all non-audit engagements with the audit is of great importance to the Audit external auditor is reviewed at each meeting. Committee. A detailed audit plan is prepared For the year ended 31 December 2016, the and discussed with the Audit Committee at Audit Committee approved fees for audit the start of each annual audit cycle, outlining services of US$4.6 million, together with fees the key risks and proposed geographic for non-audit work of US$2.0 million. coverage. Under European rules, the current audit Audit quality is assessed by reference to the partner will have to rotate off for the audit of standard of the reports received by the Audit the consolidated financial statements as of Committee, the caliber of senior members of 31 December 2019. the audit team and the level of challenge provided to Management. Also, feedback is Audit tendering received by the Audit Committee from EY was first appointed auditor of the Management. Company for the year ended 31 December 2012 following a competitive tender. In addition, on a regular basis the performance of the external auditors is Based on the new EU audit regulations reviewed by Management both centrally and and applicable Luxembourg law, EY would in each of Millicom’s operating countries have to rotate off by 2032 (20 years) at against a set of 17 criteria ranging from the latest, with mandatory tender in 2022 knowledge of the business, to timeliness of (after ten years). communication and quality of reporting. This feedback allows the Audit Committee to monitor and assess the performance of the external auditor in making a recommendation to the Board regarding the reappointment of Ernst & Young. Millicom Annual Report 2016 108 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Shareholder and Board governance – continued Compliance and Business Conduct Committee The focus of the Compliance and Business and Respond. Specific support was given to Conduct Committee during 2016 was aimed strengthening the resources of the at enhancing the Compliance function Compliance function. In parallel, the through the onboarding of a Chief Ethics & Committee reviewed the ongoing monitoring Compliance Officer. The Committee also of the maturity of the compliance framework spent dedicated time reviewing and in each of its meetings and will continue to discussing external regulatory requirements do so over next year as the function and and internal control environment for framework continues to evolve. anti-money laundering activities. Continued I want to thank the Board and Management attention was given to the results of the Team members of the Committee for their external risk assessment exercise performed From Mr. Odilon Almeida continued support and dedication to the by Covington & Burling. Chairman of the Compliance and work performed in 2016 and look forward to Other key areas of focus were to support the working together in the new year. Business Conduct Committee recommended simplification of the compliance framework through the adoption of a three-pillar approach – Prevent, Detect Compliance and Business Conduct Committee membership and attendance 2016 Meetings/ Committee Position First appointment attendance % Mr. Odilon Almeida Chairman November 2015 7/7 100 Mr. Alejandro Santo Domingo Member November 2015 5/7 71 Ms. Janet Davidson Member May 2016 4/5 80 Mr. Tom Boardman Member May 2016 5/5 100 Dame Amelia Fawcett Former member November 2015 2/2 100 Overall attendance 23/26 88 Appointment and role of the Compliance • Monitors the results of investigations and Business Conduct Committee resulting from cases brought through the Millicom’s Compliance and Business Conduct Group’s ethics line or otherwise; Committee oversees and makes • Oversees allocation of resources and recommendations to the Board regarding the personnel to the Compliance area; Group’s compliance programs and standards • Assesses the Group’s performance in the of business conduct. More specifically, the Compliance area; and Compliance and Business Conduct • Ensures that the Group maintains proper Committee: standards of business conduct. • Monitors the Group’s Compliance program, Management representatives invited to including the activities performed by the attend the Compliance and Business Compliance Team and its interaction with Conduct Committee include the Group CEO, the rest of the organization; the Chief Compliance Officer, General Counsel and CFO. Millicom Annual Report 2016 109 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Shareholder and Board governance – continued Summary of Committee activities in 2016 Compliance Program and any compliance The Committee convened, as planned, seven related issues including anti-money times during the year. In terms of structure of laundering. The CEO plays an active role in each meeting, the Chairman prepares the the meetings. The CEO and Executive Team agenda in conjunction with the Chief Ethics have demonstrated their full commitment and Compliance Officer. The Chief Ethics and to enhancing the Compliance function and Compliance Officer, as directed by the culture at Millicom as shown by their active Chairman, reports on the status of the involvement with the Committee. Summary of areas of focus in 2016 How the Compliance and Business Conduct Committee Activity/issues covered addressed the issues Initiation of Committee • The Compliance and Business Conduct Committee commenced its activities in January 2016 with the election of Mr. Odilon Almeida as Chairman of the Committee. Recruited Chief Ethics and • A Chief Ethics and Compliance Officer was recruited. He Compliance Officer reports to the Board with a dotted line to the Millicom CEO. Anti-corruption risk • Received a report on the independent Risk Assessment assessment performed by Covington & Burling LLP, assisted by Kirkland & Ellis and by KPMG. The review has been concluded and it has not identified any matters requiring further investigation. The review has identified potential ways in which to proactively strengthen the Compliance Program going forward. Program enhancements • Simplified compliance framework implemented with emphasis on Prevent, Detect and Respond. • Restructuring the Compliance function to better align with other assurance functions. • Training on Code of Conduct and Anti-Bribery & Anti‑Corruption. • Additional emphasis on third party management and anti-money laundering. • Corporate and Local Compliance Committees in place. Millicom Annual Report 2016 110 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Shareholder and Board governance – continued Compensation Committee: Remuneration Report In 2016, the Compensation Committee has We are confident that these steps will ensure continued to focus on the review of that the Group Management is incentivized Millicom’s reward strategy to ensure that to take a longer term view on positive senior management compensation reflects business performance in alignment with more closely company performance. The company and shareholder interests. Committee has also reviewed Millicom’s I would like to thank my fellow Compensation renewed approach to benchmarking Committee members for their dedication and compensation and talent, which has led to commitment to the activities of the important work in recalibrating job grades Compensation Committee and look forward and roles. to continuing our expanded mandate through to the 2017 AGM. From Lorenzo Grabau Chairman of the Compensation Committee Compensation Committee membership and attendance 2016 Meetings/ Committee Position First appointment attendance % Mr. Lorenzo Grabau Chairman May 2015 5/5 100 Mr. Tom Boardman Member May 2016 2/2 100 Mr. José Miguel García Fernández Member May 2016 2/2 100 Dame Amelia Fawcett Former Chairman May 2014 3/3 100 Mr. Paul Donovan Former member May 2014 2/3 67 Overall attendance 14/15 93 Appointment and role of the companies. Remuneration of the CEO and Compensation Committee the long-term incentive plans are then The Compensation Committee reviews and approved by the shareholders at the AGM. makes recommendations to the Board of The evaluation of the CEO is conducted by Directors regarding the compensation of the the Compensation Committee. The CEO and the other senior managers as well evaluation criteria and the results of the as management succession planning. evaluation are then discussed by the The Board, based on guidelines by the Chairman with the entire Board. The Board Compensation Committee, propose the considered that the CEO provided strong remuneration of senior management. The leadership for the Company during 2016. The objective of the guidelines is to ensure that results of the review and evaluation were Millicom can attract, motivate and retain communicated to the CEO by the executives, within the context of Millicom’s Chairman. The Compensation Committee international talent pool, which primarily comprises three members. consists of telecom, media and FMCG Millicom Annual Report 2016 111 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Shareholder and Board governance – continued Main activities of the Committee during 2016 The Compensation Committee met five times in 2016. Activity/issues covered How the Compensation Committee addressed the issues Bonus and performance • Reviewed and approved the variable compensation targets reports to further align remuneration with company performance. • Received and reviewed senior executive performance reports and rewards for exceptional performance. Separation arrangements • Discussed, modified and subsequently approved separation at Executive level arrangements with former members of the Executive Team. Share-based incentive • Reviewed the terms and conditions of the 2016 shareplans based incentive plans, in particular changes recommended that improve alignment to shareholder returns for the future performance plans. • Discussed feedback from the changes to the 2016 share-based incentive plan design. Global reward strategy • Review of the timeline and planned activities for the and executive reward strategy update. remuneration review • Gave input to a holistic review of reward principles, emphasizing importance of a performance-based incentive opportunity culture. • Reviewed the performance of individual members of the Executive Team and compensation packages. Recruitment • Reviewed progress and potential candidates for the positions of Chief Compliance Officer, Chief Human Resources Officer, and Chief Strategy Officer. Compensation review • Reviewed guidelines and methodology for setting 2017 compensation. Remuneration guidelines Base salary – The Executives’ base salary The Board proposes to the AGM guidelines shall be competitive and based on the for remuneration and other employment individual Executive’s responsibilities and terms for the senior management. The performance. annual base salary and other benefits of the Variable cash remuneration – The CEO and the Executive Vice Presidents (the Executives may receive variable “Executive Team”) is proposed by the remuneration in addition to base salary. The Compensation Committee and approved by maximum target variable remuneration in the Board. any Executive’s contract is 100% of the base Remuneration policy salary and in case of exceptional business Remuneration packages for members of the and personal performance the actual Executive Team at Millicom comprises an amount can reach 200%. The variable annual base salary, an annual bonus, amounts or percentages are considered to be share-based compensation, social security competitive within market standards at total contributions, pension contributions and compensation levels. The variable other benefits. Bonus and share-based remuneration shall be based on the compensation plans (see note B.4.1 to the performance of the Executives in relation to Consolidated Financial Statements) are established goals and targets along with based on actual performance. Share-based Millicom’s financial performance. compensation is granted once a year by the Compensation Committee of the Board. Millicom Annual Report 2016 112 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Shareholder and Board governance – continued Use and relative weighting of performance target measures under the variable compensation rules are equal to all employees regardless of seniority. Bonus measurements Rationale Weighting Service Revenue(i) Recurring revenue is a key growth measure 23.33% used by the Group as it seeks to monetize opportunities in all countries and all business units. EBITDA EBITDA is used as a measurement of ongoing 23.33% earning power/value creation in the Group and is used as a measure of how well management controls the operational cost of growing revenue. Operating Free Cash Flow Operating Free Cash Flow is a measure aligned 23.33% to return on invested capital and is used to measure how efficiently management are generating cash flow. Personal performance The individual goals and objectives of Millicom 30% management and employees are critical in achieving its financial objectives and in long-term value creation. Total 100% (i) The use of Service Revenue as a performance measure replaced use of Total Revenue from January 2016. Long-term share based incentive plans Pension – The Executives are entitled to (LTIPs) – The aim of the LTIPs is to participate in a global pension plan, in complement and support Millicom’s accordance with European standards. long-term business view and strategy. The global pension plan is secured The plans and the amounts need to be through premiums paid to reputable competitive in order to attract and retain insurance companies. key executives. Deviations from the guidelines – In special Other benefits – Other benefits can include, circumstances, the Board may deviate from for example, a car allowance, medical the above guidelines, for example additional coverage and in some cases, housing variable remuneration in the case of allowance, school fees, home leave and exceptional performance. In such a case other travel expenses. the Board of Directors will explain the reason for the deviation at the following AGM. Payment for loss of office If the employment of a Millicom Executive is terminated, a notice period of up to 12 months potentially applies. Millicom Annual Report 2016 113 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Shareholder and Board governance – continued Executive Team remuneration 2016 Other Compensation of the Executive Team Executives (US$ ’000) CEO CFO (9 members) 2016 Base salary 1,000 599 3,797 Bonus (for 2016 performance) 660 450 1,411 Pension 150 82 513 Other benefits 48 18 720 Termination benefits — — — Total salary and benefits 1,858 1,149 6,441 Performance share plan(i) — — 13,024 Deferred share plan(ii) (for 2016 performance) 15,017 10,250 32,122 CEO Dividend Share Award 2,358 Total shares (number) 17,375 10,250 45,146 Value of shares(iii) (US$ ’000) 743 450 2,385 (i) Amounts relating to the 2014 performance share plan based on the actual performance over the three year period to 31 December 2016. The value of shares is based on the closing market value of Millicom shares in US$ at 31 December 2016 of US$42.76. These shares vested on 1 January 2017. (ii) Amounts relating to the 2016 deferred share plan (awarded in 2017). The value of shares is based on the closing market value of Millicom shares in US$ at 31 December 2016 of US$42.76. These shares will vest over three years from the award date, dependent on continued service of the employee. (iii) The value is calculated on the basis described above which differs from the value calculated for the IFRS financial statements. Compensation of Other the Executive Team Executives (US$ ’000) CEO* Former CEO CFO** (9 members)(iv) 2015 Base salary 750 304 989 3,721 Bonus (for 2015 performance) 1,006 — 1,206 1,870 Pension 113 — 95 671 Other benefits 11 — 14 1,085 Termination benefits — 2,854 — 682 Total salary and benefits 1,880 3,158 2,304 8,029 Compensation shares Performance share plan(i) — — — 11,300 Deferred share plan(ii) — — 4,394 14,916 Sign-on grant(iii) 77,344 — — — Total shares (number) 77,344 — 4,394 26,216 Value of shares(v) (US$ ’000) 4,457 — 253 1,511 * The CEO started in April 2015. ** Includes compensation for the interim CEO role to 31 March 2015. (i) Amounts relating to the 2013 performance share plan based on the actual performance over the three year period to 31 December 2015. The value of shares is based on the closing market value of Millicom shares in US$ at 31 December 2015 of US$57.63. These shares vested on 1 January 2016. (ii) Amounts relating to the 2015 deferred share plan. The value of shares is based on the closing market value of Millicom shares in US$ at 31 December 2015 of US$57.63. These shares will vest over three years from the award date, dependent on continued service of the employee. (iii) Amounts relating to the CEO sign on bonus share grant. The value of shares is based on the closing market value of Millicom shares in US$ at 31 December 2015 of US$57.63. One-third of the total share amount vests on each of 1 January 2016, 1 January 2017 and 1 January 2018. (iv) Includes former Executives who left Millicom during 2015. (v) The value is calculated on the basis described above which differs from the value calculated for the IFRS financial statements. Millicom Annual Report 2016 114 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Shareholder and Board governance – continued Share based incentive plans The modification to the Performance Share The share-based incentive plans currently Plan for the CEO and CFO as applied in 2015 consist of a Deferred Share Plan (DSP) and a (the Executive Share Plan) has not been Performance Share Plan (PSP). Shares repeated in 2016. Both the CEO and CFO are granted under the DSP are based on personal instead participating in the Group’s PSP, with and corporate performance of the previous target opportunities as per the table below. year and the awards vest over three years, In 2016, long-term share based incentive 16.5% after one year, 16.5% after two years plans were offered to Executives, other senior and 67% after three years. Shares granted management, as well as to high potential under the PSP vest at the end of a three-year employees and employees in key roles (by period, whereby vesting is subject to certain nomination exception) under the plans set company performance conditions. out in the following table. In addition, the rules of the plans set out certain criteria and conditions in which new employees can be awarded sign-on awards. Maximum Basis for shares awarded calculating LTIP Plans Eligibility Participants in 2016 award Comment Deferred CEO, CFO, 330 287,316 20–50% Share Plan other on base salary (DSP) Executives as per 31.12.15 and other (global) senior management* Performance CEO, CFO, 200% Share Plan other 160% (PSP) Executives 52 200,617 35%–160% and other on base salary (global) senior as per 01.01.16 management *A limited number of High-Potential employees and employees in key roles can be nominated by exception. Specific rules of each plan are set out below. Vesting under all plans is conditional on the participant remaining employed by the Group at each vesting date. Additional vesting criteria are noted under each plan. Additional vesting criteria Vesting period LTIP Plans (terms and conditions) 1 year 2 years 3 years Deferred Share Plan – 16.5% 16.5% 67% Future Performance Achievement of absolute and relative — — 100% Plan total shareholder return target measures plus a Free Cash Flow target measure over the three year vesting period. CEO compensation The share grant was proposed by the Board At the AGM on 15 May 2015, the Board of following review by the Compensation Directors proposed and the meeting Committee of the entire compensation approved a sign-on share grant to the CEO package for the CEO. The 2016 components of 77,344 Millicom shares, as part of the of this package are: CEO remuneration. • an annual base salary of US$1 million; One-third of the total share amount vests • variable remuneration with a target of (and is deliverable to the CEO along with 100% of base salary; accrued dividends) on each of 1 January • participation in Millicom’s share-based 2016, 1 January 2017 and 1 January 2018. compensation plans; The vesting of shares is conditional upon the • the continued vesting of the Sign-on Share CEO not being dismissed for cause. Grant; and • other standard benefits, as described under the senior management remuneration principles earlier in this report. Millicom Annual Report 2016 115 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Shareholder and Board governance – continued CEO earnings opportunity from At target US$’000 2016 award levels 50% Cash 2,198 The tables below provide estimates of the Shares 2,200 potential future remuneration for the Chief Executive Officer based on the remuneration opportunity granted in the 2016 financial 50% year. Potential outcomes are based on different performance scenarios. Assumptions underlying each scenario are described below. At target US$’000 72.8% Fixed 1,198 Fixed Fixed income consists of base salary, employment benefits and company Variable3,200 pension contributions. 27.2% Base salary is at 31 December 2016. Benefits are valued using the figures in the total remuneration for the 2016 financial year table detailed above. Pension contributions are made at 15% of base salary as at December of the preceding year. Base Benefits Pension Total Fixed (US$’000) (US$’000) (US$’000) (US$’000) At maximum US$’000 51% Cash 2,398 Mauricio 1,000 48 150 1,198 Shares 2,500 Ramos Variables on Values are based on what the Chief Executive Officer Mr. Ramos would receive target if performance was in line with Incentive Performance Targets. 49% The target award opportunity for the annual cash bonus is 100% of base salary. The target award opportunity for the Deferred Share Plan (DSP) is 50% of base salary for the Chief Executive Officer. The target award opportunity for the Performance Share Plan (PSP) is 200% of base salary for the Chief Executive Officer, assuming TSR performance being At maximum US$’000 75.5% Fixed 1,198 positive and at peer group median. Variable3,700 Variables at Maximum award opportunity under the annual cash bonus is 120%. 24.5% maximum The maximum award for performance under the DSP is 75% of base salary. The maximum award for performance under the PSP is 200% of base salary, where total shareholder return (‘TSR’) outperforms the peer group by at least 5 percentage points. Details of share purchase and sale activity During 2016 Millicom’s CEO, Mauricio Ramos acquired 12,000 Millicom shares. Millicom Annual Report 2016 116 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Shareholder and Board governance – continued Shareholding requirements All Share Plan participants in the Global Millicom’s share ownership policy sets out the Senior Management Team (including all Compensation Committee’s requirements on Executives) are required to own Millicom Global Senior Managers to retain and hold a shares to a value of a percentage of their personal holding of common shares in the respective base salary as of January of the Company in order to align their interests with calendar year. Unless this requirement is filled those of our shareholders. each year no vested Millicom shares can be sold by the individual. 2016 2017 2018 onwards Global Senior Management Level Transition requirements % Full requirement % CEO 400 400 400 CFO 200 200 200 EVPs 20–50 50–100 100 General managers and VPs 10 25 50 Shares and unvested share awards beneficially owned Shares and unvested share awards beneficially owned by the Executive Team (number of shares) CEO Executive Team Total 31 December 2016 Shares 27,020 34,472 61,492 Share awards not vested 114,729 173,340 288,069 31 December 2015 Shares — 11,714 11,714 Share awards not vested 104,008 83,823 186,831 2016 Remuneration for the Chairman, Deputy Chairman and Non-Executive Directors Decisions on annual remuneration of Directors (“tantièmes”) are reserved by the Articles of Association to the general meeting of shareholders. Directors are therefore prevented from voting on their own compensation. However, Directors may vote on the number of shares they may be allotted under any share-based compensation scheme. The Nomination Committee reviews and recommends the Directors’ fees which are approved by the shareholders at the AGM. Fees are set based on the role (Chairman, Deputy Chairman), and for participation in and roles of Chairman of the Audit Committee, the Compliance and Business Conduct Committee, and Compensation Committee. Millicom Annual Report 2016 117 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Shareholder and Board governance – continued The remuneration of Directors comprises an annual fee and shares denominated in Swedish Krona (SEK). Director remuneration for the period is as follows: Remuneration Remuneration 2016 2015 Board and committees SEK 000’s SEK 000’s Directors: Mr. Tom Boardman (Chairman) 2,025 — Mr. José Miguel García Fernández (Deputy Chairman) 1,300 — Mr. Odilon Almeida(i) 1,050 1,050 Ms. Janet Davidson 950 — Mr. Simon Duffy 1,050 — Mr. Tomas Eliasson(i) 1,250 1,250 Mr. Lorenzo Grabau 950 1,150 Mr. Alejandro Santo Domingo 950 850 Former Directors (until May 2016): Ms. Cristina Stenbeck (former Chairman) — 1,500 Mr. Anders Borg (former Deputy Chairman) — 1,000 Mr. Paul Donovan(i) — 950 Dame Amelia Fawcett — 1,075 Total in SEK 000’s SEK 9,525 SEK 8,825 Total (US$’000)(ii) US$1,143 US$1,058 (i) In addition, in 2015: EUR 57,000 was paid to each for their work on the Special Committee. (ii) Cash compensation converted from SEK to USD at exchange rates on payments dates each year. Share based compensation based on the market value of Millicom shares on the 2016 AGM date (in total 8,002 shares). Net remuneration comprised 50% in shares and 50% in cash (2015: 38% in shares and 62% in cash). Millicom Annual Report 2016 118 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Shareholder and Board governance – continued 3. Millicom CEO and Executive Team CEO Position Role and responsibilities Mr. Mauricio Ramos CEO Leading the development and execution of the Company’s strategy. Day-to-day activities and management decisions, both operating and financial. Liaison between the Board and Management of the Company. Leading the Executive Team. Mr. Mauricio Ramos Chief Executive Officer Mauricio Ramos (1968) joined Millicom in April Mauricio is also Chairman of TEPAL, the Latin 2015 as Chief Executive Officer (CEO). Before American Association of Cable Broadband joining Millicom, he was President of Liberty Operators, Member of the Board of Directors of Global’s Latin American division, a position he Charter Communications (US), and a Member held from 2006 until February 2015. of the Board of Directors of the GSMA. During his career at Liberty Global, Mauricio He is a dual Colombian and US citizen who held several leadership roles, including received a degree in Economics, a degree in positions as Chairman and CEO of VTR in Law, and a postgraduate degree in Financial Chile and President of Liberty Puerto Rico. Law from Universidad de los Andes in Bogota. Throughout this period he successfully Millicom shareholding at 31 January 2017: developed both mobile and broadband 27,020 shares businesses in Latin America, delivering solid operational improvement and outstanding financial results. Millicom’s Executive Team supports the CEO in the day-to-day operation and management of the Group, within their specific areas of expertise. Millicom’s Executive Team meets on at least a monthly basis and more frequently when required. Millicom’s Executive Team is as follows: Executive Team Position Role and responsibilities Mr. Tim Pennington Chief Financial Finance and financial planning. Reporting Officer financial performance, including external financial reporting. Budgeting and forecasting, monitoring expenditures and costs. Implementation and enhancement of related controls. Risk management. Mr. Esteban Iriarte Chief Operating Operations and development of the Latin Officer – LatAm American businesses. Ms. Cynthia Gordon CEO Africa Division Operations and development of the African businesses. Mr. Xavier Rocoplan Chief Technology Networks, technology and information within and Information the Group. Also procurement, corporate Officer security and information security. Ms. Rachel Samrén Chief External Government relations, regulatory affairs, Affairs Officer corporate communications and corporate responsibility. Millicom Annual Report 2016 119 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Shareholder and Board governance – continued Executive Team Position Role and responsibilities Mr. Salvador Escalón General Counsel Legal and corporate governance matters including oversight, identification and management of legal cases and issues of the Group, as well as legal aspects of mergers and acquisitions and other corporate transactions. Mr. Daniel Loria Chief Human Human Resource matters including talent Resources Officer acquisition and management, compensation, diversity and inclusion. Mr. HL Rogers Chief Ethics and Compliance matters including ethics, Compliance Officer anti-bribery, anti-corruption and related compliance programs. Mr. Rodrigo Diehl Chief Strategy Strategy development and direction setting. Officer The profiles of the CFO and Executive Team members are provided below: Mr. Tim Pennington Mr. Esteban Iriarte Ms. Cynthia Gordon Chief Financial Officer Chief Operating Officer, Latin America Executive Vice President, CEO Africa Tim Pennington joined Millicom in June 2014 Esteban Iriarte was appointed as Chief Division as Chief Financial Officer. Operating Officer (COO), Latin America in Cynthia Gordon joined Millicom in September August 2016. 2015 as EVP, CEO Africa Division. Previously, he was the Chief Financial Officer at Cable and Wireless Communications plc, Previously, Esteban was General Manager of Cynthia was previously Chief Commercial Group Finance Director for Cable and Wireless Millicom’s Colombian businesses where, in Officer at Ooredoo, with oversight for plc and, prior to that, CFO of Hutchison 2014, he led the merger and integration of commercial strategies across Ooredoo Telecommunications International Ltd, listed Tigo and the fixed-line company UNE. operations in the Middle East, North Africa in Hong Kong and New York. Tim was also and South-East Asia. Cynthia was also a Prior to leading Tigo Colombia, Esteban was Finance Director of Hutchison 3G (UK), Commissioner on the Board of Indosathead of Millicom’s regional Home and B2B Hutchison Whampoa’s British mobile business. Ooredoo, the largest operation of the divisions. Ooredoo Group. He also has corporate finance experience, From 2009 to 2011, he was CEO of Amnet, a firstly as a Director at Samuel Montagu & Co. She joined Ooredoo from Orange where she leading service provider in Central America Limited, and then as Managing Director of was Vice President of Partnerships and for broadband, cable TV, fixed line and data HSBC Investment Bank within its Corporate Emerging Markets. Prior to that Cynthia was services that was bought by Millicom in Finance and Advisory Department. Group Chief Commercial Officer at MTS in 2008. Russia and led the commercial strategy and He is a British national and has a BA In 2016 Esteban joined Sura Asset direction for the company, which at the time (Honours) degree in Economics and Social Management board. Sura is one of Latin had 91 million customers in six countries. Studies from the University of Manchester. America’s biggest financial groups. Cynthia currently serves as Board member of Millicom shareholding at 31 January 2017: European telecom operator Tele 2 and BIMA, Esteban is from Argentina and received a 9,813 shares the leading provider of mobile-delivered degree in Business Administration from the insurance in emerging markets. Pontificia Universidad Catolica Argentina “Santa Maria de los Buenos Aires”, and an Cynthia is a British national and has a BA MBA from the Universidad Austral in Buenos (Honours) in Business Studies. Aires. Millicom shareholding at 31 January 2017: Millicom shareholding at 31 January 2017: 110 shares 8,634 shares Millicom Annual Report 2016 120 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Shareholder and Board governance – continued Mr. Xavier Rocoplan Ms. Rachel Samrén Mr. Salvador Escalón Executive Vice President, Chief Executive Vice President, Chief External Executive Vice President, General Counsel Technology and Information Officer Affairs Officer Salvador Escalón was appointed as Millicom’s Xavier Rocoplan started working with Rachel Samrén joined Millicom in July 2014 General Counsel in March 2013 and became Millicom in 2000 and joined the Executive and manages the Group’s government Executive Vice President in July 2015. Committee as Chief Technology and IT relations, corporate communications and Salvador leads Millicom’s legal team and Officer in December 2012. corporate responsibility functions. advises the Board of Directors and senior Xavier is currently heading all mobile and Her focus is on driving Millicom’s global management on legal and governance fixed network and IT activities across the engagement with particular responsibility for matters. Group as well as all Procurement & Supply special situation strategies. He first joined Millicom as Associate General Chain activities. Rachel’s background is in the risk Counsel Latin America in April 2010. In this role Xavier first joined Millicom in 2000 as CTO in management consulting sector, most recently he successfully led legal negotiations for the Vietnam and subsequently for South East as Head of Business Intelligence at The Risk merger of Millicom’s Colombian operations Asia. In 2004, he was appointed CEO of Advisory Group plc. Previously, she worked for with UNE-EPM Telecomunicaciones S.A., as well Millicom’s subsidiary in Pakistan (Paktel), a Citigroup as well as non-governmental and as the acquisition of Cablevision Paraguay. role he held until mid-2007. During this time, governmental organizations. From January 2006 to March 2010, Salvador he launched Paktel’s GSM operation and led Rachel currently serves as Chairman of the was Senior Counsel at Chevron Corporation, the process that was concluded with the Board of Directors of Reach for Change and with responsibility for legal matters relating disposal of the business in 2007. Xavier was Zantel. to Chevron’s downstream operations in Latin then appointed as head of Corporate America. Business Development, where he managed She is a Swedish national and holds a BSc in the disposal of various Millicom operations International Relations from the London Previously, he was in private practice at the (e.g. Asia), the monetization of Millicom School of Economics and a MLitt in law firms Skadden, Morgan Lewis and infrastructure assets (towers) as well as International Security Studies from the Akerman Senterfitt. numerous spectrum acquisitions and license University of St Andrews. Salvador is an American national and has a renewal processes in Africa and in Latin Millicom shareholding at 31 January 2017: J.D. from Columbia Law School and a B.B.A. America. 93 shares in Finance and International Business from Xavier is a French national and holds Florida International University. Master’s degrees in engineering from Ecole Millicom shareholding at 31 January 2017: Nationale Supérieure des 4,222 shares Télécommunications de Paris and in economics from Université Paris IX Dauphine. Millicom shareholding at 31 January 2017: 11,604 shares Millicom Annual Report 2016 121 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Shareholder and Board governance – continued Mr. Daniel Loria Mr. HL Rogers Mr. Rodrigo Diehl Executive Vice President, Chief Human Executive Vice President, Chief Ethics and Executive Vice President, Chief Strategy Resources Officer Compliance Officer Officer Daniel Loria joined Millicom in April 2016 as HL Rogers joined Millicom in August 2016 as Rodrigo Diehl was appointed as Millicom’s Chief Human Resources Officer. Chief Ethics and Compliance Officer. As the Executive Vice President, Chief Strategy leader of Millicom’s Compliance function he Officer in September 2016. Previous to his current role, Daniel was Head is committed to maintaining a world-class of HR for North America at Syngenta, the Previously, Rodrigo was a partner at compliance program. global agribusiness company headquartered McKinsey & Co. both in Germany and in in Switzerland. Previously, he was partner in the Washington Brazil where, from 2003, he advised DC office of international law firm Sidney telecommunications, technology and media His international experience includes his role Austin LLP where he represented individual, leaders throughout Europe, the USA, Middle as Regional Head of HR for Royal & Sun corporate and government clients in East and Latin America. Alliance Latin America (2007 to 2009); compliance issues and complex litigation. Global Head of HR for Novartis’ Vaccines and He also previously worked as a Senior Analyst Diagnostics and HR Head of Novartis Throughout this period, HL Rogers developed and Planning Manager at Techint Group. Pharmaceuticals in Latin America (2003 to a wealth of experience in setting up and At Millicom, Rodrigo is supporting the 2007). managing compliance programs, company’s drive to constantly improve its strengthening compliance policies and Daniel’s career has provided him with strategic rigor and maintain its competitive procedures, as well as conducting training extensive and diverse international advantage in a rapidly transforming industry. and development. He has also assisted many experience in developing the human capital large corporations in negotiations with He graduated with honors from the in organizations. authorities in multiple jurisdictions. University of Buenos Aires and holds an MBA He has a degree in Business Communications from Harvard Business School. HL clerked for Judge Thomas Griffith of the from ITESM Queretaro where he graduated United States Court of Appeals for the Millicom shareholding at 31 January 2017: with honors, and an MA from California State District of Columbia Circuit in 2005. He no shares University where he studied Communications received his Juris Doctorate from Harvard and Public Relations as a Fulbright Scholar. Law School in 2004 and has published He also has an Advanced Certification in several articles on compliance and ethics Organizational and Executive Coaching from matters within the corporate setting. New York University. In 2001, HL received his BA degree in English Millicom shareholding at 31 January 2017: from Brigham Young University. no shares Millicom shareholding at 31 January 2017: no shares Millicom Annual Report 2016 122 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Management governance The Group seeks to ensure that governance For instance, the Chief Ethics and activities are embedded in the daily operations Compliance Officer reports directly to the of all businesses and in the Group’s corporate relevant Board committee with a dotted line functions. The role of the Group’s governance report to the CEO. functions is to set policies and procedures in In addition, the Group has a dedicated accordance with our obligations and Internal Audit function to provide international best practice. These functions independent assurance over all businesses then ensure these are embedded in our and corporate functions through a program businesses and monitor compliance. of risk-based internal audits. Internal Audit Each function has clear reporting lines reports to the Audit Committee of the Board through to the Executive Management Team and to Executive Management. and the CEO. Reporting is also to the Board Improvements are identified, management committees, as previously described, based actions assigned and implementation on the responsibilities of each committee. progress is monitored. Chief Executive Officer Executive Management Team 1. 2. 3. 4. 5. Business Risk Compliance Corporate Security Control Management and Business Responsibility Ethics 1. Business Control Within the Millicom control framework, The Board has overall responsibility for the controls are performed by operational and Group’s system of internal control which is functional management teams. The Group’s designed to manage, rather than eliminate, key controls are documented in the Millicom the risk of failure to achieve business internal control manual, and covers both objectives and can only provide reasonable, financial and non-financial controls across 15 but not absolute, assurance against material core business processes. The control manual misstatement or loss. The concept of was significantly upgraded at the start of the reasonable assurance recognizes that the year. Each country has its own dedicated, cost of control procedures should not exceed local Business Control team responsible for the expected benefits. monitoring and development of the local internal control environment. Responsibility for maintaining effective internal controls is delegated to the CEO and the Executive Team with oversight provided by the Audit Committee. Millicom continued to invest significantly during the year to further strengthen its internal control framework. Millicom Annual Report 2016 123 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Management governance – continued Monitoring systems 2. Risk Management The Chief Ethics & Compliance Officer A process of internal control self-assessment Millicom has a risk management framework reports monthly to the Executive Team and is operated and requires self-certification of which our business units and corporate Corporate Compliance Committee. On a the operation of key controls. Where controls functions utilize. Millicom has a network of risk regular basis reports are shared with the are found not to be operating effectively, officers at headquarters, regional and each Board and the newly established Compliance action plans are designed with significant operating country level, led by the and Business Conduct Committee of the responsibilities and timescales assigned for Chief Risk Officer. The risk function is tasked Board. remediation. with identifying, analyzing, monitoring and Whistleblowing, case management and coordinating Millicom’s approach to Self-assessment results are reported to the reporting balancing risk with return and reporting to Audit Committee and the Executive Team. The Group operates an ethics helpline, which the Executive Team. The Audit Committee, The results enable an assessment of the is managed by the Ethics & Compliance on behalf of the Board, is responsible for relative maturity of our internal control Team and administered by an independent reviewing the effectiveness of risk activities. environment by both business process and by third party. The Millicom Ethics Line allows country. In 2016, three self-assessment Key strategic and operating risks are assessed for anonymous reporting, is available on the exercises were performed compared to two in from an overall Group perspective as well as Millicom website, and is available to all 2015. All in-scope countries and operations individual country and business units. Risk employees as well as third parties. met their internal targets for 2016. action plans that seek to balance risks with A quarterly report on matters raised through returns are developed, implemented and Fraud management and reporting the Millicom Ethics Line is provided to the modified over time as the underlying risks Business Control has responsibility for fraud Corporate Compliance Committee, the evolve. Action steps are implemented both risk management. A new Group fraud policy Executive Team and on an annual basis to globally and locally by Executives and key and fraud response standard was developed the Audit Committee. decision makers. and launched in late 2015. During the year, Key governance initiatives there has been significant work to roll out The principal risks identified by the Group are The role of Chief Ethics & Compliance Officer requirements to each operation. set out on in the Risk Management section of (CECO) was created and the role was filled this report. A quarterly fraud report is prepared by each mid-year. The CECO reports directly to the operation. A summary of this is presented to 3. Ethics and Compliance Board, with a dotted line to the CEO. A new the Audit Committee along with the key The Millicom Ethics and Compliance Team Compliance structure with an enhanced level actions taken. Quantitative and qualitative has overall responsibility for the enterpriseof resource was approved. thresholds have been agreed to govern the wide Millicom compliance framework and the The Code of Conduct training completion is reporting of individual fraud incidents to the anti-bribery and anti-corruption program. It now linked to bonus eligibility. The target Group CFO, CEO and the Audit Committee. also manages the anti-money laundering threshold is 90% of staff completion rate, program and has overall responsibility for Internal controls over financial reporting which was achieved enterprise wide. investigations and case management. The Management of Millicom is responsible Internal Audit initiated frequent reviews of for establishing and maintaining adequate Management and governance of the Compliance framework and risks. These internal control over financial reporting. compliance activities audits will be performed on a rolling basis Internal control over financial reporting is a The Management Team established year on year. A compliance auditor has been process designed to provide reasonable corporate and local compliance committees approved for Internal Audit and will assist in assurance regarding the reliability of financial during last year. These are managed by the targeting compliance-related issues. reporting and the preparation of financial Ethics and Compliance Team and serve as statements for external reporting purposes in assurance bodies and oversight functions of A cross-functional Investigations Review conformity with International Financial the compliance framework. Committee (IRC) was established to oversee Reporting Standards as adopted by the and manage all ethics and compliance The Corporate Compliance Committee European Union. Due to its inherent concerns raised in one central clearing house consists of all members of the Millicom limitations, internal controls over financial with representatives from Compliance, HR, Executive Team and the Chief Ethics & reporting may not prevent or detect Legal and Internal Control. Compliance Officer. The local committees are misstatements. managed by the relevant Ethics & Added emphasis was placed on due diligence Management has assessed the effectiveness Compliance managers, together with the for third parties, including suppliers, vendors, of internal control over financial reporting as general managers and their leadership teams agents, consultants and M&A targets. Third of 31 December 2016 and concluded that its in the local operations. The local compliance parties due diligence is being enhanced and internal control over financial reporting was committees will report into the Corporate third parties will be reviewed according to the effective. Compliance Committee for transparency, risk they present to Millicom and its assurance and oversight. operations. A due diligence vendor is being identified to assist in this initiative. Millicom Annual Report 2016 124 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Management governance – continued We frequently engage external auditors to support successful delivery of our business Governance of CR conduct independent reviews of our strategy. Millicom’s VP Corporate In 2016, the Board decided to cease the Compliance Framework and Anti-Bribery & Responsibility (CR) leads the team that specialized Government Relations (GR) and Anti-Corruption (ABAC) Program. With the manages the Group’s “growing responsibly” CR Committee, and assumed the overall support of the Chief Ethics & Compliance reporting process and publishes CR-related responsibility of overseeing GR, CR and social Officer, and with continued sponsorship by strategy, management and performance investment (SI). The driver for this change the Board, a review of the compliance information in the annual integrated report. was the depth and materiality of these framework was performed across a selection Our integrated report will continue to be a topics, the current maturity level of the of markets. The Washington based law firm key vehicle in promoting transparency programs, and that monitoring of Covington & Burling was commissioned to towards investors and other key stakeholders subsequent risks was considered by the Board perform the review. on CR risks and opportunities. as of importance to its entirety. The change has given CR and SI topics more visibility A focus was working with Guatemala to The CR team has active interaction with across the Board, as our Executive Vice strengthen governance. In 2016, we external stakeholders to ensure that Millicom President (EVP) Chief External Affairs Officer, emphasized the role of the local board understands and addresses CR issues that a direct report of our CEO, is now directly utilizing several key executives including CEO, are important and relevant to its accountable to the Board for delivering CFO and General Counsel, added audit and stakeholders. This is done in a formal way in updates on our CR and SI strategy. compensation committees to the local board, a bi-annual materiality analysis, and for the strengthened audit function, and began most part via ongoing interaction with our VP of Corporate Responsibility reports working on compliance initiatives. key partners and stakeholders. progress on CR and SI strategy implementation and issues management to 4. Corporate responsibility In addition to anticipating and improving the Millicom Executive Committee on a This year, for the first time, Millicom preparedness on risks, the CR function also monthly basis through the EVP Chief External integrates corporate responsibility-related adds value by seeking leadership Affairs Officer, and in specific cases directly. performance data and information to our opportunities for the Group to improve annual financial and operational report to reputation and brand perception, and demonstrate how managing key “growing monitoring cost savings from environmental responsibly” topics and subsequent risks initiatives. How CR is governed Role: Oversees, advises and makes recommendations Board of Directors to Management regarding our strategy and activities in the areas of external affairs, including government relations, CR and social investment. Chief Executive Officer Executive Management Team Direct reports sponsors for managing CR EVP EVP to the CEO EVP Chief Compliance and Chief External Affairs Chief Technology and Business Ethics Officer Officer Information Officer Senior management Director of Compliance Vice President Vice President Vice President and Business Ethics Corporate Responsibility Corporate Security Supply Chain Responsible for: Responsible for: Responsible for: Responsible for: Anti-corruption Environment and Health and safety issues Responsible supply compliance human rights issues chain management Millicom Annual Report 2016 125 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Management governance – continued 5. Security In parallel, Millicom has in place physical Millicom has a robust professional security security and loss prevention standards which and safety model, managed by the VP set minimum acceptable levels of critical site Corporate Security, reporting into the EVP protection, as defined by industry best and CTIO. The Security team oversees the practice. implementation of policy and Group All activities are subject to a program of standards in physical security, health and monitoring and compliance activities. safety, business continuity and information security, by local operational teams. Information Security Millicom’s information security management The focus of the Corporate Security team is system establishes security requirements, to protect life, protect information, to aiming to make our network more resilient to promote well-being and to build resilience emerging threats, to ultimately support the throughout the business, to unexpected corporate strategic objectives. The events or crises. framework allows for a risk driven approach Currently, the Corporate Security team is to protect the confidentiality, integrity and working with the respective operating availability of Millicom’s information and entities by implementing international technology assets. It is based on the standards such as OHSAS 18001, ISO 27001, international code of practice for information ISO 22301 and 31000 in order to secure security management ISO/IEC 27001. additional services as well as mitigating risk A risk assessment process is in place to to the business. identify new risks, and all relevant risks are then subjected to a formal risk mitigation Business Continuity and Crisis plan. The Global Information Steering Management Committee, comprising the CTIO, and the Our business continuity and crisis information security and IT senior leadership, management system is designed to address meets quarterly to assess and prioritize significant disruption that might affect our information security risks across the Group, capabilities to perform critical day-to-day and to provide status updates to the Millicom activities related to the delivery of our Audit Committee. services. All critical services and business processes are identified by a business impact Particular focus in 2016 was given to three analysis, and are required to have a disaster key areas of information risk: logical access recovery and business continuity plan. All control, network segmentation and log critical assets identified in the impact management, in response to earlier audit analysis have a risk assessment performed to and internal control findings. address all relevant operational threats. All Health and Safety Management relevant risks are then subjected to a formal Our health and safety management system risk mitigation plan. is designed to tackle the most significant risks Millicom crisis management defines the at both corporate and country level. The key proper response to, and management of, an risks include the following: personal safety intense, unexpected and unstable situation and security during travel, working at height, that disrupts normal operation and has road risk, managed services, fire and health, highly undesirable outcomes, which require including blood borne viruses such as extraordinary measures to restore normal malaria, Zika, Dengue fever and Ebola. operations. Crisis management aims to During the year, our control measures were protect the safety of our staff and our reviewed and revised to ensure a robust reputation, together with continuous and approach is adopted across all countries. reliable delivery of service to customers, while maintaining contractual, legal and regulatory compliance. Millicom Annual Report 2016 126 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Management responsibility statement We, Mauricio Ramos, Chief Executive Officer and Tim Pennington, Chief Financial Officer, confirm, to the best of our knowledge, that these 2016 consolidated financial statements which have been prepared in accordance with the International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Millicom Group and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, and that the Directors’ report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Millicom Group and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face. Luxembourg, 7 February 2017 Mauricio Ramos Tim Pennington Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer Millicom Annual Report 2016 127 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Financials This section details our financial performance for 2016. 129 Independent auditor’s report 130 Introduction 135 Consolidated statement of income 136 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 137 Consolidated statement of financial position 139 Consolidated statement of cash flows 140 Consolidated statement of changes in equity 141 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Independent auditor’s report To the shareholders of Millicom International Cellular S.A. Report on the consolidated financial statements We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and Following our appointment by the General Meeting of the appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion. Shareholders dated 17 May 2016, we have audited the Opinion accompanying consolidated financial statements of Millicom In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements give a true and International Cellular S.A., which comprise the consolidated fair view of the financial position of Millicom International Cellular statement of financial position as at 31 December 2016, the S.A., as of 31 December 2016, and of its financial performance and consolidated statement of income, the consolidated statement of its cash flows for the year then ended in accordance with comprehensive income, the consolidated statement of cash flows, the International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the consolidated statement of changes in equity for the year then ended, European Union. and a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information. Report on other legal and regulatory requirements The consolidated management report on pages 90 to 91, which is the Board of Directors’ responsibility for the consolidated financial responsibility of the Board of Directors is consistent with the statements consolidated financial statements and has been prepared in The Board of Directors is responsible for the preparation and fair accordance with applicable legal requirements. presentation of these consolidated financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as The accompanying corporate governance statement on pages 92 to adopted by the European Union and for such internal control as the 127, which is the responsibility of the Board of Directors, is consistent Board of Directors determines is necessary to enable the preparation with the consolidated financial statements and includes the and presentation of consolidated financial statements that are free information required by the law with respect to the corporate from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. governance statement. Responsibility of the “réviseur d’entreprises agréé” Ernst & Young Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these consolidated Société anonyme financial statements based on our audit. We conducted our audit in Cabinet de révision agréé accordance with International Standards on Auditing as adopted for Olivier Lemaire Luxembourg by the “Commission de Surveillance du Secteur Luxembourg, 7 February 2017 Financier”. Those standards require that we comply with ethical requirements and plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the consolidated financial statements are free from material misstatement. An audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the consolidated financial statements. The procedures selected depend on the judgment of the “réviseur d’entreprises agréé”, including the assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the consolidated financial statements, whether due to fraud or error. In making those risk assessments, the “réviseur d’entreprises agréé” considers internal control relevant to the entity’s preparation and fair presentation of the consolidated financial statements in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the entity’s internal control. An audit also includes evaluating the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates made by the Board of Directors, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the consolidated financial statements. Millicom Annual Report 2016 129 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Introduction Corporate information IFRS consolidated financial statements Millicom International Cellular S.A. (the “Company”), a Luxembourg Basis of preparation Société Anonyme, and its subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates These financial statements have been prepared in accordance with (the “Group” or “Millicom”) is an international telecommunications International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the and media group providing digital lifestyle services in emerging European Union (“IFRS”). This is in accordance with Regulation (EC) markets, through mobile and fixed telephony, cable, broadband, TV No 1606/2002 of the European Parliament and of the Council of and investments in online businesses in Latin America and Africa. 19 July 2002 on the application of international accounting standards for listed companies domiciled in the European Union. The Company’s shares are traded as Swedish Depositary Receipts on the Stockholm stock exchange under the symbol MIC SDB and over The financial statements have been prepared on an historical cost the counter in the US under the symbol MIICF. The Company has its basis, except for certain items including derivative financial registered office at 2, Rue du Fort Bourbon, L-1249 Luxembourg, instruments and call options (measured at fair value), financial Grand Duchy of Luxembourg and is registered with the Luxembourg instruments that contain obligations to purchase own equity Register of Commerce under the number RCS B 40 630. instruments (measured at the present value of the redemption price), and property, plant and equipment under finance leases (initially On 7 February 2017 the Board of Directors (the “Board”) authorized measured at the lower of fair value and present value of the future these consolidated financial statements for issuance. The approval minimum lease payments). will be submitted for ratification by the shareholders at the Annual General Meeting to be held on 4 May 2017. This section contains the Group’s significant accounting policies that relate to the financial statements as a whole. Significant accounting Business activities policies specific to one note are included within that note. Accounting Millicom operates its mobile businesses in Central America (El policies relating to non-material items are not included in these Salvador, Guatemala and Honduras) in South America (Bolivia, financial statements. Colombia and Paraguay), and in Africa (Chad, Ghana, Rwanda, Senegal and Tanzania). Consolidation The consolidated financial statements of the Group comprise the Millicom operates various cable and fixed line businesses in Latin financial statements of the Company and its subsidiaries as of America (Colombia, Costa Rica, El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras, 31 December of each year. The financial statements of the Nicaragua, Bolivia and Paraguay). Millicom also provides direct to subsidiaries are prepared for the same reporting year as the home satellite service in many of its Latin American countries. Company, using consistent accounting policies. On 31 December 2015, Millicom deconsolidated its operations in All intra-group balances, transactions, income and expenses, and Guatemala and Honduras which are, since that date and for profits and losses resulting from intra-group transactions are accounting purposes, under joint control. Income statements of those eliminated. operations are still fully consolidated for the year ended 2015 (see note A.2.2., for further details). Millicom has investments in online/e-commerce businesses in several countries in Latin America and Africa, investments in a tower holding company in Africa and various investments in start-up businesses providing e-payments and content to its mobile and cable customers. Millicom Annual Report 2016 130 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Introduction – continued IFRS consolidated financial statements – continued ii) Income and expenses are translated at average exchange rates Foreign currency (unless this average is not a reasonable approximation of the Financial information in these financial statements are shown in the cumulative effect of the rates prevailing on the transaction dates, US dollar presentation currency of the Group and rounded to the in which case income and expenses are translated at the dates of nearest million (US$ million) except where otherwise indicated. The the transactions); and financial statements of each of the Group’s entities are measured iii) All resulting exchange differences are recognized as a separate using the currency of the primary economic environment in which component of equity (“Currency translation reserve”), in the each entity operates (“the functional currency”). The functional caption “Other reserves”. currency of each subsidiary, joint venture and associate reflects the economic substance of the underlying events and circumstances of On consolidation, exchange differences arising from the translation these entities. Except for DRC and El Salvador where the functional of net investments in foreign operations, and of borrowings and other currency is US dollar, the functional currency in other countries is the currency instruments designated as hedges of such investments, are local currency. recorded in equity. When the Group disposes of or loses control over a foreign operation, exchange differences that were recorded in equity The results and financial position of all Group entities (none of which are recognized in the consolidated income statement as part of gain operate in an economy with a hyperinflationary environment) with or loss on sale or loss of control. functional currency other than the US dollar presentation currency are translated into the presentation currency as follows: Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on acquisition of a foreign operation are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign i) Assets and liabilities are translated at the closing rate on the date operation and translated at the closing rate. of the statement of financial position; The following table presents functional currency translation rates for the Group’s locations to the US dollar on 31 December 2016 and 2015. 2016 2016 2015 Change Exchange rates to the US dollar Functional currency Average rate Year-end rate Year-end rate % Bolivia Boliviano (BOB) 6.91 6.91 6.91 n/a Chad and Senegal CFA Franc (XAF) 600.08 626.14 609.96 2.65 Colombia Peso (COP) 3,048.51 3,000.71 3,149.47 (4.72) Costa Rica Costa Rican Colon (CRC) 551.47 561.10 544.87 2.98 DRC US dollar n/a n/a n/a n/a El Salvador US dollar n/a n/a n/a n/a Ghana Cedi (GHS) 3.92 4.20 3.80 10.53 Guatemala Quetzal (GTQ) 7.61 7.52 7.63 (1.44) Honduras Lempira (HNL) 22.92 23.59 22.43 5.17 Luxembourg Euro (EUR) 0.91 0.95 0.92 3.26 Nicaragua Cordoba (NIO) 28.62 29.32 27.93 4.98 Paraguay Guarani (PYG) 5,685.89 5,766.93 5,806.91 (0.69) Rwanda Rwandan Franc (RWF) 786.82 819.79 747.41 9.68 Sweden Krona (SEK) 8.58 9.11 8.44 7.94 Tanzania Shilling (TZS) 2,183.35 2,181.00 2,159.00 1.02 United Kingdom Pound (GBP) 0.74 0.81 0.68 19.12 Millicom Annual Report 2016 131 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Introduction – continued New and amended IFRS accounting standards Standards or IASB amendments Objective effective date Adopted by Millicom on 1 January 2016 with no material impact to the consolidated financial statements Amendment to IAS 1 These amendments are part of the IASB initiative to improve presentation and disclosure in 1 January 2016 financial report, and rather clarify than significantly change, the existing IAS 1 requirements. The amendments clarify: the materiality requirements in IAS 1, that specific line items in the statement(s) of profit or loss, and Other Comprehensive Income (‘OCI’) and the statement of financial position may be disaggregated, that entities have flexibility as to the order in which they present the notes to financial statements, that the share of OCI of associates and joint ventures accounted for using the equity method must be presented in aggregate as a single line item, and classified between those items that will or will not be subsequently reclassified to profit or loss. Annual improvements These set of amendments impact four standards: IFRS 5, “Non-current assets held for sale and 1 January 2016 2014 discontinued operations” regarding methods of disposal, IFRS 7, “Financial instruments: Disclosures”, IAS 19, “Employee benefits” regarding discount rates, IAS 34, “Interim financial reporting” regarding disclosure of information. Amendments to IAS Clarification of acceptable methods of depreciation and amortization issued by the IASB in 1 January 2016 38 and IAS 16 July 2014. Amendments to Accounting for acquisitions of interests in joint operations issued by the IASB in May 2014. 1 January 2016 IFRS 11 Not yet effective and not early adopted by Millicom on 1 January 2016 IFRS 9, “Financial IFRS 9 addresses the classification, measurement and recognition of financial assets and 1 January 2018 Instruments” financial liabilities. IFRS 9 was originally issued in November 2009 and October 2010 and subsequently amended in July 2014. It replaces the parts of IAS 39 that relate to the classification and measurement of financial instruments. IFRS 9 requires financial assets to be classified into two measurement categories: those measured at fair value, and those measured at amortized cost. The determination is made at initial recognition. The classification depends on the entity’s business model for managing its financial instruments and the contractual cash flow characteristics of the instrument. For financial liabilities, the standard retains most of the IAS 39 requirements. The main change is that, in cases where the fair value option is taken for financial liabilities, the part of a fair value change due to an entity’s own credit risk is recorded in other comprehensive income rather than the income statement, unless this creates an accounting mismatch. A final standard on hedging (excluding macro-hedging) has been issued in November 2013 which aligns hedge accounting more closely with risk management and allows to continue hedge accounting under IAS 39. The Group does not expect IFRS 9 to have a material impact on the consolidated financial statements and intends to adopt IFRS 9 no later than the compulsory adoption date of 1 January 2018. IAS 12, “Recognition The IASB issued the amendments to IAS 12 Income taxes to clarify the accounting for deferred 1 January 2017 of deferred tax assets tax assets for unrealized losses on debt instruments measured at fair value. The amendments for unrealized losses” clarify that an entity needs to consider whether tax law restricts the sources of taxable profits against which it may make deductions on the reversal of that deductible temporary difference. Furthermore, the amendments provide guidance on how an entity should determine future taxable profits and explains in which circumstances taxable profit may include the recovery of some assets for more than their carrying amount. The Group does not expect this amendment to have a material impact on the consolidated financial statements and intends to adopt it no later than the compulsory adoption date (subject to endorsement by the EU). Millicom Annual Report 2016 132 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Introduction – continued New and amended IFRS accounting standards – continued Standards or IASB amendments Objective effective date IFRS 15, “Revenue IFRS 15 establishes a five-step model related to revenue recognition from contracts with 1 January 2018 from contracts with customers. Under IFRS 15, revenue is recognized at amounts that reflect the consideration that customers” an entity expects to be entitled to in exchange for transferring goods or services to a customer. The Group is currently conducting a Group-wide IFRS 15 assessment and implementation project. Based on the analyses made to date, the Group estimates that IFRS 15 will have an impact on the timing and amount of revenue recognition in connection with certain multipleelement arrangements and more particularly on hardware subsidies (e.g. mobile handsets). Under IFRS 15 a larger portion of the total consideration received in a bundled contract will be attributable to the component delivered at contract inception (e.g. mobile handset), requiring earlier revenue recognition. The delivery of subsidized handsets would likely lead to the recognition of a contract asset. As a result, this would likely lead to higher revenue from the sale of hardware and to lower revenue from the provision of telecommunications services. The recognition of commission costs related to the acquisition of customers is also expected to be affected as the Group will have to capitalize certain of these commissions. Moreover, the new Standard could impact transactions wherein third parties are involved concerning the gross vs net presentation of revenue. Consequently, IFRS 15 might have a material effect on the statement of financial position and income statement at first-time adoption, however a reasonable estimate of the quantitative impact is not possible to be derived at this stage. The Group expects to adopt IFRS 15 using the cumulative catch-up transition method no later than the compulsory adoption date of 1 January 2018. As the Group does not intend to early adopt the Standard, no material impact on revenue recognition is expected at year-end 2017. IFRS 16, “Leases” The application of the Standard will affect primarily the accounting for the Group’s operating 1 January 2019 leases. As at the reporting date, the Group has non-cancellable operating lease commitments of US$727 million, see note G.2. However, the Group has not yet determined to what extent these commitments will result in the recognition of an asset and a liability for future payments and how this will affect the Group’s results and classification of cash flows. This said, the application of this Standard will affect net debt and leverage ratios of the Group. Some of the commitments may be covered by the exemption for short-term and low-value leases and some commitments may relate to arrangements that will not qualify as leases under IFRS 16. The new Standard is effective 1 January 2019 (subject to endorsement by the EU). Early application is permitted (as long as the recently issued revenue Standard, IFRS 15 “Revenue from Contracts with Customers” is also applied). The Group intends to adopt it no later than the compulsory adoption date (subject to endorsement by the EU). IAS 7, Disclosure The amendments to IAS 7 Statement of cash flows are part of the IASB’s Disclosure Initiative 1 January 2017 initiative – and require an entity to provide disclosures that enable users of financial statements to evaluate Amendment to IAS 7 changes in liabilities arising from financing activities, including both changes arising from cash flows and non-cash changes. The Group does not expect this amendment to have a material impact on the consolidated financial statements and intends to adopt it no later than the compulsory adoption date (subject to endorsement by the EU). IFRIC 22, “Foreign This IFRIC addresses foreign currency transactions or parts of transactions where there is 1 January 2018 currency transactions consideration that is denominated or priced in a foreign currency. The interpretation provides and advance guidance for when a single payment/receipt is made as well as for situations where multiple consideration” payments/receipts are made. The guidance aims to reduce diversity in practice. The Group does not expect this amendment to have a material impact on the consolidated financial statements and intends to adopt it once it is endorsed by the EU. Annual improvements These amendments impact three standards: IFRS 1, “First-time adoption of IFRS”, regarding the 1 January 2018 2014–2016 deletion of short term exemptions for first-time adopters regarding IFRS 7, IAS 19, and IFRS 10 effective 1 January 2018. IFRS 12, “Disclosure of interests in other entities” regarding clarification of the scope of the standard. These amendments should be applied retrospectively for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2017. IAS 28, “Investments in associates and joint ventures” regarding measuring an associate or joint venture at fair value effective 1 January 2018. The Group does not expect these improvements to have a material impact on the consolidated financial statements. Millicom Annual Report 2016 133 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Introduction – continued Judgments and critical estimates Estimates The preparation of IFRS financial statements requires management Estimates are based on historical experience and other factors, to use judgment in applying accounting policies. It also requires the including reasonable expectations of future events. These factors are use of certain critical accounting estimates and assumptions that reviewed in preparation of the financial statements, although due to affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, and disclosure of inherent uncertainties in the evaluation process, actual results may contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial differ from original estimates. Estimates are subject to change as new statements, and the reported amounts of revenue and expenses information becomes available and may significantly affect future during the reporting period. These estimates are based on operating results. Significant estimates have been applied in respect management’s best knowledge of current events and actions, and of the following items: actual results may ultimately differ from these estimates. Areas • Accounting for property, plant and equipment, and intangible involving a higher degree of judgment or complexity, or areas where assets in determining fair values at acquisition dates, particularly assumptions and estimates are significant to the financial statements for assets acquired in business combinations and sale and are disclosed in each note and are summarized below: leaseback transactions (see note E.2.1.). Judgments • Useful lives of property, plant and equipment and intangible Management apply judgment in accounting treatment and assets (see notes E.1.1., E.2.1.). accounting policies in preparation of these financial statements. In • Provisions, in particular provisions for asset retirement particular a significant level of judgment is applied regarding the obligations, legal and tax risks (see note F.4.). following items: • Revenue recognition (see note B.1.1.). • Impairment testing including WACC and long term growth rates • Contingent liabilities – whether or not a provision should be (see note E.1.6.). recorded for any potential liabilities (see note G.3.). • Estimates for defined benefit obligations (see note B.4.3.). • Leases – whether the substance of leases meets the IFRS criteria • Accounting for share-based compensation in particular for recognition as finance or operating leases or services contracts, estimates of forfeitures and future performance criteria (see note or elements of each (see notes E.2. and G.2.). B.4.1., B.4.2.). • Control – whether Millicom, through voting rights and potential • Fair value of financial assets and liabilities in particular the put voting rights attached to shares held, or by way of shareholders and call options related to our businesses in Guatemala and agreements or other factors, has the ability to direct the relevant Honduras and the fair value of such investments on activities of the subsidiaries it consolidates, or jointly direct the deconsolidation (see note A.2.2., C.6.3.). relevant activities of its joint ventures (see notes A.1., A.2.). • Discontinued operations and assets held for sale – definition, classification and presentation (see notes A.4., E.3.1.) as well as measurement of potential provisions related to indemnities. • Deferred tax assets – recognition based on likely timing and level of future taxable profits together with future tax planning strategies (see notes B.6.3. and G.3.2.). • Acquisitions – measurement at fair value of existing and newly identified assets and goodwill, the measurement of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets, and the assessment of useful lives (see notes A.1.2., E.1.1., E.1.5., E.2.1.). • Financial instruments that contain obligations to purchase own equity instruments – determination of the likelihood of change of control events occurring in assessing the fair value of the Guatemala and Honduras put options in 2015 (see note C.6.3.). • Defined benefit obligations – key assumptions related to life expectancies, salary increases and leaving rates, mainly related to UNE Colombia (see note B.4.3.). • Impairment testing – Key assumptions related to future business performance (see notes E.1.2., E.1.6., E.2.2.). Millicom Annual Report 2016 134 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Consolidated statement of income for the year ended 31 December 2016 US$ millions Notes 2016 (ii) 2015(i) Revenue B.1. 4,374 6,572 Cost of sales B.2. (1,279) (1,793) Gross profit 3,096 4,778 Operating expenses B.2. (1,781) (2,590) Depreciation E.2.2. (744) (1,035) Amortization E.1.3. (184) (246) Income from joint ventures, net A.2. 115 — Other operating expenses (20) (64) Operating profit B.3. 482 843 Interest expense (394) (425) Interest and other financial income 22 22 Other non-operating (expenses) income, net B.5. 10 (624) Income (loss) from associates, net A.3. (49) 100 Profit (loss) before taxes from continuing operations 71 (83) Charge for taxes, net B.6. (180) (278) Loss for the year from continuing operations (109) (361) Profit (loss) for the year from discontinued operations, net of tax A.4. 19 (83) Net loss for the year (90) (444) Attributable to: The owners of Millicom (32) (559) Non-controlling interests (58) 115 Earnings per common share for profit (loss) attributable to the owners of the Company: Basic (US$ per common share): — from continuing operations (0.51) (4.76) — from discontinued operations 0.19 (0.83) — total B.7. (0.32) (5.59) Diluted (US$ per common share) — from continuing operations (0.51) (4.76) — from discontinued operations 0.19 (0.83) — total B.7. (0.32) (5.59) (i) Re-presented for discontinued operations (shown in note A.4.). (ii) The impact of accounting for Honduras and Guatemala under the equity method on the presentation of the 2015 consolidated income statement is shown in note A.2.2. The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. Millicom Annual Report 2016 135 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the year ended 31 December 2016 US$ millions 2016 2015 Net loss for the year (90) (444) Other comprehensive income (to be reclassified to the income statement in subsequent periods), net of tax: Exchange differences on translating foreign operations(i) (14) (438) Change in value of cash flow hedges, net of tax effects (3) (3) Other comprehensive income (not to be reclassified to the income statement in subsequent periods), net of tax: Remeasurements of post-employment benefit obligations, net of tax effects (2) — Total comprehensive loss for the year (109) (885) Attributable to: Owners of the Company (60) (897) Non-controlling interests (49) 12 (i) C  umulative exchange differences of US$192 million has been reclassified in the income statement as of 31 December 2015 following the deconsolidation of Honduras and Guatemala (see note A.2.2.). The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. Millicom Annual Report 2016 136 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Consolidated statement of financial position at 31 December 2016 31 December 31 December US$ millions Notes 2016 2015(i) ASSETS NON-CURRENT ASSETS Intangible assets, net E.1. 1,359 1,429 Property, plant and equipment, net E.2. 3,057 3,198 Investments in joint ventures A.2. 2,945 3,220 Investments in associates A.3. 331 376 Deferred tax assets B.6. 166 188 Derivative financial instruments D.1.2. 32 26 Other non-current assets 72 75 TOTAL NON-CURRENT ASSETS 7,961 8,512 CURRENT ASSETS Inventories, net F.2. 62 80 Trade receivables, net F.1. 387 398 Amounts due from non-controlling interests, associates and joint ventures G.5. 17 16 Prepayments and accrued income 171 193 Current income tax assets 101 125 Supplier advances for capital expenditure 23 39 Other current assets 110 109 Restricted cash C.4. 145 142 Cash and cash equivalents C.4. 646 769 TOTAL CURRENT ASSETS 1,661 1,871 Assets held for sale E.3.2. 5 12 TOTAL ASSETS 9,627 10,395 (i) The consolidated statement of financial position for the year ended 31 December 2015 has been restated after finalization of Zantel’s purchase accounting (note A.1.2.). The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. Millicom Annual Report 2016 137 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Consolidated statement of financial position at 31 December 2016 – continued 31 December 31 December US$ millions Notes 2016 2015(i) EQUITY AND LIABILITIES EQUITY Share capital and premium C.1. 638 639 Treasury shares (123) (143) Other reserves C.1. (562) (531) Retained profits 3,247 4,071 Loss for the year attributable to equity holders (32) (559) Equity attributable to owners of the Company 3,167 3,477 Non-controlling interests A.1.5. 201 251 TOTAL EQUITY 3,368 3,728 LIABILITIES Non-current liabilities Debt and financing C.3. 3,821 3,789 Derivative financial instruments D.1.2. 84 65 Amounts due to associates and joint ventures G.5. 113 63 Provisions and other non-current liabilities F.4.2. 286 243 Deferred tax liabilities B.6. 57 50 Total non-current liabilities 4,361 4,210 Current liabilities Debt and financing C.3. 80 221 Payables and accruals for capital expenditure 326 285 Other trade payables 297 334 Amounts due to non-controlling interests, associates and joint ventures G.5. 273 581 Accrued interest and other expenses 376 425 Current income tax liabilities 68 124 Provisions and other current liabilities F.4.1. 477 487 Total current liabilities 1,898 2,457 Liabilities directly associated with assets held for sale E.3.2. — — TOTAL LIABILITIES 6,258 6,667 TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 9,627 10,395 (i) The consolidated statement of financial position for the year ended 31 December 2015 has been restated after finalization of Zantel’s purchase accounting (note A.1.2.). The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. Millicom Annual Report 2016 138 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Consolidated statement of cash flows for the year ended 31 December 2016 US$ millions Notes 2016 2015(i) Cash flows from operating activities Profit (loss) before taxes from continuing operations 71 (83) Profit (loss) before taxes from discontinued operations A.4. 13 (70) Profit (loss) before taxes 83 (153) Adjustments to reconcile to net cash: Interest expense (income), net 397 442 Interest and other financial income (22) (22) Adjustments for non-cash items: Depreciation and amortization 932 1,321 Income from joint ventures, net A.2. (115) — Loss on disposal and impairment of assets, net E.1.6. 19 66 Share based compensation C.1. 14 19 (Income) loss from associates, net A.3. 49 (100) Other non-cash non-operating (income) expenses, net B.5. (22) 622 Changes in working capital: Decrease (increase) in trade receivables, prepayments and other current assets 102 162 (Increase) decrease in inventories 19 17 Increase (decrease) in trade and other payables (109) (117) Changes in working capital: 12 62 Interest (paid) (357) (377) Interest received 19 23 Taxes (paid) (130) (252) Net cash provided by operating activities 878 1,651 Cash flows from investing activities: Acquisition of subsidiaries, joint-ventures and associates, net of cash acquired A.1. — (54) Dividend received from joint-ventures A.2.2. 143 — Effect of deconsolidation of Guatemala and Honduras subsidiaries A.2.2. — (168) Proceeds from disposal of subsidiaries, net of cash disposed E.3.2. 147 4 Purchase of intangible assets and licenses E.1.4. (143) (186) Proceeds from sale of intangible assets E.1.3. 6 4 Purchase of property, plant and equipment E.2.3. (719) (1,019) Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment E.2.2. 6 5 Net (increase) decrease in restricted cash — (17) Dividend received from associates A.3. — 6 Cash (used in) provided by other investing activities, net 8 14 Net cash used in investing activities (552) (1,411) Cash flows from financing activities: Acquisition of non-controlling interests A.1.2. — (39) Proceeds from debt and financing C.3. 713 1,880 Repayment of debt and financing C.3. (821) (1,392) Advances for, and dividends to non-controlling interests A.1./A.2. (68) (269) Payment of dividends to equity holders C.2. (265) (264) Cash (used in) provided by other financing activities, net — — Net cash from (used by) financing activities (441) (84) Exchange impact on cash and cash equivalents, net (8) (81) Net (decrease) increase in cash and cash equivalents (123) 75 Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year 769 694 Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year 646 769 (i) H onduras and Guatemala operations are fully consolidated for the year ended 31 December 2015. The impact of accounting for Honduras and Guatemala under the equity method on the presentation of the 2015 consolidated statement of cash flows are shown in note A.2.2. The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. Millicom Annual Report 2016 139 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Consolidated statement of changes in equity for the year ended 31 December 2016 Number of shares Number held by Nonof shares the Group Share Share Treasury Retained Put option Other controlling Total US$ millions (000’s) (000’s) capital(i) premium shares profits(ii) reserve reserves(iv) Total interests equity Balance on 31 December 2014 101,739 (1,756) 153 487 (160) 4,761 (2,512) (389) 2,339 1,391 3,730 Total comprehensive income for the year — — — — — (559) — (338) (897) 12 (885) Dividends (v) — — — — — (264) — — (264) (244) (508) Purchase of treasury shares — (29) — — (2) — — — (2) — (2) Share based compensation(vi) — — — — — — — 19 19 — 19 Issuance of shares under share based compensation schemes — 209 — (1) 19 — — (18) — — — Change in scope of consolidation(vii) — — — — — (48) — 3 (45) 10 (35) Effect of deconsolidation(ix) — — — — — — — 192 192 (918) (726) Put option liability reversal (iii) — — — — — (377) 2,512 — 2,135 — 2,135 Balance on 31 December 2015 (viii) 101,739 (1,574) 153 486 (143) 3,513 — (531) 3,477 251 3,728 Total comprehensive income for the year — — — — — (32) — (28) (60) (49) (109) Dividends(v) — — — — — (265) — — (265) — (265) Purchase of treasury shares — (37) — — (3) — — — (3) — (3) Share based compensation(vi) — — — — — — — 14 14 — 14 Issuance of shares under share based compensation schemes — 216 — (1) 23 (1) — (17) 4 — 4 Balance on 31 December 2016 101,739 (1,395) 153 485 (123) 3,215 — (562) 3,167 201 3,368 (i) Share capital and share premium – see note C.1. (ii) Retained profits – includes profit for the year attributable to equity holders, of which $321 million; (2015: $384 million) are not distributable to equity holders. (iii) Put option reserve – see note C.1. (iv) Other reserves – see note C.1. (v) Dividends – see notes C.2. (vi) Share-based compensation – see note C.1. (vii) Change in scope of consolidation in 2015 – Zantel, Edatel and Tigo Rwanda see note A.1.2. (viii) The consolidated statement of financial position for the year ended 31 December 2015 has been restated after finalization of Zantel’s purchase accounting (note A.1.2.). (ix) Effect of deconsolidation of Honduras and Guatemala – see note A.2.2. The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. Millicom Annual Report 2016 140 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2016 A. The Millicom Group The Group comprises a number of holding companies and operating subsidiaries with various combinations of mobile, fixed line telephony, cable and wireless PayTV, internet and Mobile Financial Services businesses. The Group also holds investments in a tower holding company investing in Africa and in online businesses in Latin America and Africa. A.1. Subsidiaries Subsidiaries are all entities which Millicom controls. Millicom controls an entity when it is exposed to, or has rights to variable returns from its investment in the entity, and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the subsidiary. Millicom has power over an entity when it has existing rights that give it the current ability to direct the relevant activities, i.e. the activities that significantly affect the entity’s returns. Generally, control accompanies a shareholding of more than half of the voting rights although certain other factors (including contractual arrangements with other shareholders, voting and potential voting rights) are considered when assessing whether Millicom controls an entity. For example, although Millicom holds less than 50% of the shares in its Colombian businesses, it holds more than 50% of shares with voting rights. The contrary may also be true (e.g. Guatemala and Honduras). Our main subsidiaries are as follows: 31 December 31 December 2016 2015 Entity Country Activities % holding % holding Central America Telemovil El Salvador S.A. El Salvador Mobile, MFS 100.0 100.0 Cable El Salvador S.A. de C.V. El Salvador Cable, DTH 100.0 100.0 Navega.com SA, Succursal El Salvador El Salvador Cable, DTH 100.0 100.0 Cable Costa Rica S.A. Costa Rica Cable, DTH 100.0 100.0 South America Telefonica Celular de Bolivia S.A. Bolivia Mobile, DTH, MFS, Cable 100.0 100.0 Telefonica Celular del Paraguay S.A. Paraguay Mobile, MFS, Cable, PayTV 100.0 100.0 Colombia Móvil S.A. E.S.P.(i) Colombia Mobile 50.0-1 share 50.0-1 share UNE EPM Telecomunicaciones S.A.(i) Colombia Fixed line, Internet, PayTV, Mobile 50.0-1 share 50.0-1 share Edatel S.A. E.S.P.(i) Colombia Fixed line, Internet, PayTV, Cable 50.0-1 share 50.0-1 share Africa Millicom Ghana Company Limited Ghana Mobile, MFS 100.0 100.0 Sentel GSM S.A. Senegal Mobile, MFS 100.0 100.0 MIC Tanzania Limited (iii) Tanzania Mobile, MFS 100.0 100.0 Oasis S.A.(ii) DRC Mobile, MFS — 100.0 Millicom Tchad S.A. Chad Mobile, MFS 100.0 100.0 Millicom Rwanda Limited Rwanda Mobile, MFS 100.0 100.0 Zanzibar Telecom Limited Tanzania Mobile, MFS 85.0 85.0 Unallocated Millicom International Operations S.A. Luxembourg Holding Company 100.0 100.0 Millicom International Operations B.V. Netherlands Holding Company 100.0 100.0 MIC Latin America B.V. Netherlands Holding Company 100.0 100.0 Millicom Africa B.V. Netherlands Holding Company 100.0 100.0 Millicom Holding B.V. Netherlands Holding Company 100.0 100.0 Millicom Spain S.L. Spain Holding Company 100.0 100.0 (i) Fully consolidated as Millicom has the majority of voting shares to direct the relevant activities. (ii) Disposed of in April 2016 and classified as discontinued operations for the year then ended (see note A.1.4.). (iii) See note H. Millicom Annual Report 2016 141 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2016 – continued A.1.1. Accounting for subsidiaries and non-controlling interests Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to Millicom. If facts and circumstances indicate that there are changes to one or more of the elements of control, a reassessment is performed to determine if control still exists. Subsidiaries are deconsolidated from the date that control ceases. Transactions with non-controlling interests are accounted for as transactions with equity owners of the Group. Gains or losses on disposals to non-controlling interests are recorded in equity. For purchases from non-controlling interests, the difference between any consideration paid and the relevant share acquired of the carrying value of net assets of the subsidiary is also recorded in equity. A.1.2. Acquisition of subsidiaries and increases in non-controlling interests in subsidiaries During the year ended 31 December 2016, Millicom did not make any significant acquisition. During 2015 Millicom acquired 85% of the shares and control of Zanzibar Telecom Limited, raised its stake in its Rwandan subsidiary from 87.5% to 100% and in one of the UNE subsidiaries (Edatel S.A. E.S.P.) from 80% to 100%. The Group also made other smaller acquisitions for a total consideration of US$20 million. Acquisition of Zanzibar Telecom Limited on 22 October 2015 On 4 June 2015 Millicom’s fully owned Swedish subsidiary Millicom International Ventures AB entered into an agreement to purchase 85% of Zanzibar Telecom Limited (“Zantel”). The agreed purchase consideration was US$1 subject to final price adjustment and included a shareholder loan. In addition Millicom assumed Zantel’s debt obligations. The transaction completed on 22 October 2015 after receipt of regulatory approvals. A final price adjustment, if any, may still occur in the coming months after the appointment of an independent expert. The deal also includes a reverse earn-out mechanism based on Zantel’s achievement of EBITDA targets for the period from 2017 to 2019. No amounts have been recognized under this mechanism. For the purchase accounting, Millicom determined the fair value of Zantel based on transaction and relative values. The non-controlling interest was measured based on the proportionate share of the fair value of the net assets of Zantel. The purchase accounting was updated and finalized in 2016 when additional information became available regarding fair values of acquired assets and liabilities. 22 October 2015 Initial fair values Final fair values (US$ millions) 100% 100% Change Intangible assets (excluding goodwill), net.(i) 36 75 39 Property, plant and equipment, net(ii) 40 32 (8) Other non-current assets(iii) 1 14 13 Current assets (excluding cash)(iv)(v) 30 41 11 Cash and cash equivalents 5 5 — Total assets acquired 112 167 55 Non-current liabilities 81 77 (4) Current liabilities 104 103 (1) Total liabilities assumed 185 180 (5) Fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed, net (73) (13) 60 Fair value of non-controlling interest in Zantel (39) (2) 37 Millicom’s interest in the fair value of Zantel (34) (11) 23 Acquisition price (US$1 dollar) — — — Goodwill 34 11 (23) (i) I ntangible assets not previously recognized are a trademark for an amount of US$10 million, with indefinite useful life, a customer list for an amount of US$13 million, with estimated useful life of four years, telecommunication spectrum licenses for an amount of US$23 million, with estimated useful life of ten years and favorable contracts for US$2 million. Certain IRUs were also written down to their fair values for an amount of US$9 million. (ii) Certain network and civil works assets were adjusted down to their fair value for an amount of US$10 million. Certain land values were also stepped up to their fair value for an amount of US$2 million. (iii) The change in other non-current assets mainly corresponds to the step up at fair value of Zantel’s 9% investment in the West Indian Ocean Cable Company Limited (“WIOCC”), a telecommunications carriers’ carrier. (iv) Current assets includes indemnification assets at fair value for an amount of US$11 million. (v) The fair value of trade receivables acquired was US$19 million. The update of the purchase price allocation resulted in an impact on net income of less than US$(1) million for the year ended 31 December 2015, which has been considered as immaterial and has not triggered a restatement of the prior year income statement. The goodwill, which comprises the fair value of the assembled work force and expected synergies from the acquisition, is not tax deductible. Millicom Annual Report 2016 142 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2016 – continued Control over UNE and subsidiaries obtained on 14 August 2014 On 1 October 2013 Millicom signed an agreement with Empresas Públicas de Medellín E.S.P. (“EPM”), to combine and merge their mutual interests in Millicom’s Colombian operations (“Colombia Móvil”), with UNE EPM Telecomunicaciones S.A. (“UNE”). The merger created a business offering a comprehensive range of bundled digital services including mobile and fixed telephony, mobile and fixed broadband and PayTV products and services in complementary geographic areas. The transaction was completed on 14 August 2014. In August 2015, the purchase accounting for the acquisition of UNE was finalized. The completion of the purchase price allocation resulted in an impact on net profit of US$(2) million for the year ended 31 December 2015. A.1.3. Cash flows from acquisition of subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates Cash inflows and outflows (US$ millions) 2016 2015 Net cash acquired from acquisition of Zantel — 5 Increase in shareholdings (investments) in Online businesses — (29) Other acquisitions (net of cash acquired) — (30) Total — (54) A.1.4. Disposal of subsidiaries and decreases in non-controlling interests of subsidiaries DRC On 8 February 2016, Millicom announced that it had signed an agreement for the sale of its businesses in the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) to Orange S.A. (see note E.3.). Other disposals For the year ended 31 December 2016, Millicom did not dispose of any investments. For the year ended 31 December 2015, Millicom disposed of minor subsidiries for a cash consideration of US$4 million. A.1.5. Summarized financial information relating to significant subsidiaries with non-controlling interests At 31 December 2016, Millicom’s subsidiaries with material non-controlling interests were the Group’s operations in Colombia (UNE and Colombia Móvil). Balance sheet – non-controlling interests 31 December (US$ millions) 2016 2015 Colombia (including UNE and Colombia Móvil) 207 254 Others (6) (3) Total 201 251 Profit (loss) attributable to non-controlling interests (US$ millions) 2016 2015 Guatemala operations (until 31 December 2015 – see note A.2.2.) — 148 Honduras operations (until 31 December 2015 – see note A.2.2.) — 20 Colombia (including UNE and Colombia Móvil) (55) (50) Others (3) (3) Total (58) 115 The summarized financial information for the year ended 31 December 2015 in respect of material non-controlling interests in the Guatemala and Honduras operations are presented in note A.2.2. Millicom Annual Report 2016 143 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2016 – continued A.1.5. Summarized financial information relating to significant subsidiaries with non-controlling interests – continued The summarized financial information for material non-controlling interests in our operation in Colombia (including UNE and Colombia Móvil) is provided below. This information is based on amounts before inter-company eliminations. UNE and subsidiaries (including Colombia Móvil) (US$ millions) 2016 2015 Revenue 1,717 1,982 Total operating expenses (660) (751) Operating profit 40 94 Net (loss) for the year (110) (100) 50% non-controlling interest in net (loss) (55) (50) Total assets (excluding goodwill) 2,221 2,278 Total liabilities 1,776 1,745 Net assets 445 533 50% non-controlling interest in net assets 223 266 Consolidation adjustments (16) (12) Total non-controlling interest 207 254 Dividends and advances paid to non-controlling interest 67 11 Net cash from operating activities 366 423 Net cash from (used in) investing activities (340) (435) Net cash from (used in) financing activities (24) (25) Exchange impact on cash and cash equivalents, net 1 (38) Net (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 3 (75) Millicom Annual Report 2016 144 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2016 – continued A.2. Joint ventures Joint ventures are businesses over which Millicom exercises joint control as decisions over the relevant activities of each require unanimous consent of shareholders. Millicom determines the existence of joint control by reference to joint venture agreements, articles of association, structures and voting protocols of the Board of Directors of those ventures. Our main joint ventures are as follows: 31 December 31 December 2016 2015 Entity Country Activity(ies) % holding % holding Latin America Comunicaciones Celulares S.A. Guatemala Mobile, MFS 55 55 Navega.com S.A. Guatemala Cable, DTH 55 55 Telefonica Celular S.A. Honduras Mobile, MFS 66.7 66.7 Navega S.A. de CV Honduras Cable, MFS 66.7 66.7 The carrying values of Millicom’s investments in joint ventures was as follows: Carrying value of investments in joint ventures at 31 December (US$ millions) % 2016 2015 Honduras operations(i) 66.7 766 983 Guatemala operations(i) 55 2,179 2,237 Total 2,945 3,220 (i) Includes all the companies under the Honduras and Guatemala groups. The table below summarizes the movements for the year in respect of the Group’s joint ventures carrying values: 2016 US$ millions Guatemala Honduras Opening balance at 1 January 2016 2,237 983 Results for the year 106 9 Dividends declared during the year (166) (178) Currency exchange differences 2 (48) Closing balance at 31 December 2016 2,179 766 At 31 December 2016 and 2015 the Group had not incurred obligations, nor made payments on behalf of Guatemala or Honduras operations. A.2.1. Accounting for joint ventures Joint ventures are accounted for using the equity method of accounting and are initially recognized at cost (i.e. fair value at the time of deconsolidation for investments in Honduras and Guatemala). The Group’s investments in joint ventures include goodwill (net of any accumulated impairment loss) on acquisition. The Group’s share of post-acquisition profits or losses of joint ventures is recognized in the consolidated income statement under “Income from joint ventures, net” and its share of post-acquisition movements in reserves is recognized in reserves. Cumulative post-acquisition movements are adjusted against the carrying amount of the investments. When the Group’s share of losses in a joint venture equals or exceeds its interest in the joint venture, including any other unsecured receivables, the Group does not recognize further losses, unless the Group has incurred obligations or made payments on behalf of the joint ventures. Gains on transactions between the Group and its joint ventures are eliminated to the extent of the Group’s interest in the joint ventures. Losses are also eliminated unless the transaction provides evidence of an impairment of the asset transferred. Accounting policies of joint ventures have been changed where necessary to ensure consistency with the policies adopted by the Group. Dilution gains and losses arising in investments in joint ventures are recognized in the income statement. After application of the equity method, including recognizing the joint venture’s losses, the Group applies IAS 39 to determine whether it is necessary to recognize any additional impairment loss with respect to its net investment in the joint venture. Millicom Annual Report 2016 145 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2016 – continued A.2.2. Honduras and Guatemala operations deconsolidation Effective 1 July 2010 (Honduras) and 1 January 2014 (Guatemala), Millicom reached agreements with its respective local partners whereby the local partners granted Millicom an unconditional call option for a duration of five years (Honduras) and two years (Guatemala) for their respective stakes in its Honduras and Guatemala operations. At the same time, and as a consideration for the call options, Millicom granted put options for the same duration to its local partners. The put options were exercisable on a change of control of Millicom International Cellular S.A., or Millicom’s subsidiaries that hold the shares in the Honduras and Guatemala operations. On 19 June 2015 Millicom reached an agreement with its local partner to extend Millicom’s five year unconditional call option to acquire the remaining 33.3% of the Honduran business until 31 December 2015 and in return extended the local partners conditional put option over the 33.3% stake. All other terms and conditions of the put and call options remained unchanged. Millicom’s five year unconditional call option to acquire the remaining 33.3% of the Honduran business, as extended by six months from 1 July 2015 expired unexercised on 31 December 2015, and accordingly the Honduran business was deconsolidated from 31 December 2015. Similarly, Millicom’s two year unconditional call option to acquire the remaining 45% of the Guatemalan business expired unexercised on 31 December 2015 and, accordingly, the Guatemala business was deconsolidated from 31 December 2015. At the same time, the conditional put options Millicom provided to the other shareholders also lapsed. As a consequence, on 31 December 2015, Millicom deconsolidated its investments in Honduras and Guatemala operations and accounted for them under the equity method, initially at fair value of respectively US$2.2 billion for Guatemala and US$1.0 billion for Honduras, resulting in a loss on the deconsolidation of these businesses amounting to US$391 million, including recycling of foreign currency exchange losses accumulated in equity of US$192 million, which was recorded under “Other non-operating income (expenses), net”. The fair values of Honduras and Guatemala operations were determined based on a discounted cash flow calculation. As from 31 December 2015 onwards, Millicom therefore jointly controls the Honduras and Guatemala operations and accounts for its investments in these operations under the equity method and reports its share of the net income of each of these businesses in the income statement in the caption “Income (loss) from joint ventures, net” since 1 January 2016. Lapse of the put options for both operations resulted in the extinguishment of both put option liabilities amounting to US$2,135 million on 31 December 2015. The carrying values of both liabilities have been settled against the put option reserve within equity for US$2,512 million (amount recognized at inception) and against retained profits for the residual difference of US$(377) million as of 31 December 2015. Millicom Annual Report 2016 146 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2016 – continued A.2.2. Honduras and Guatemala operations deconsolidation – continued Summarized financial information for the years ended 31 December 2016 and 2015 of the Guatemala and Honduras operations is as follows. This information is based on amounts before inter-company eliminations. Guatemala(i) (US$ millions) 2016 2015 Revenue 1,284 1,306 Cost of sales (ii) (252) (258) Gross profit 1,033 1,048 Operating expenses (401) (396) Depreciation and amortization (281) (232) Other operating income (expenses), net (iii) (21) (1) Operating profit 330 419 Financial income (expenses), net (73) (64) Other non-operating income (expenses), net 4 — Profit before taxes 261 355 Charge for taxes, net (67) (77) Profit for the year 194 278 Net profit for the year attributable to Millicom 106 130 45% non-controlling interest in net profit — (125) Consolidation adjustments — (23) Non-controlling interest in net profit for Guatemala — (148) Dividends and advances paid to Millicom 77 216 Total assets (excluding goodwill) 3,077 2,937 Total liabilities 1,251 1,289 Net assets 1,826 1,648 Net cash from operating activities 438 525 Net cash from (used in) investing activities (236) (658) Net cash from (used in) financing activities (65) 195 Exchange impact on cash and cash equivalents, net (3) 1 Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 134 63 (i) Includes all operations under the combined Guatemala group. (ii) Include a provision for impairment of $24 million (2015: $18 million) related to the video surveillance contracts with the Civil National Police. No revenue has been recognised from the contracts from 1 July 2016. (iii) Include an impairment of $18 million on the fixed assets bought in the context of the video surveillance contracts. Millicom Annual Report 2016 147 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2016 – continued A.2.2. Honduras and Guatemala operations deconsolidation – continued Honduras(i) (US$ millions) 2016 2015 Revenue 609 649 Cost of sales (142) (159) Gross profit 467 490 Operating expenses (249) (207) Depreciation and amortization (160) (124) Other operating income (expenses), net (3) — Operating profit 54 159 Financial income (expenses), net (27) (22) Other non-operating income (expenses), net (14) (45) Profit before taxes 13 92 Charge for taxes, net — (51) Profit for the year 13 41 Net profit for the year attributable to Millicom 9 21 33.33% non-controlling interest in net profit — (14) Consolidation adjustments — (6) Non-controlling interest in net profit for Honduras — (20) Dividends and advances paid to Millicom 66 42 Total assets (excluding goodwill) 902 950 Total liabilities 691 625 Net assets 210 325 Net cash from operating activities 85 175 Net cash from (used in) investing activities (17) (180) Net cash from (used in) financing activities (69) 6 Net (decrease) increase in cash and cash equivalents (1) 1 (i) Includes all operations under the combined Honduras group. Millicom Annual Report 2016 148 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2016 – continued A.2.2. Honduras and Guatemala operations deconsolidation – continued The Group’s key results and cash flows, excluding Guatemala and Honduras entities, would have been as follows for the year ended 31 December 2015: Summary Group income statement, financial position and cash flows with Guatemala and Honduras operations as joint ventures (US$ millions) 2016 2015 Revenue 4,374 4,616 Cost of sales (1,279) (1,376) Gross profit 3,096 3,241 Operating expenses (1,781) (1,987) Depreciation and amortization (928) (926) Other operating expenses (20) (63) Share of net profit in Guatemala and Honduras operations 115 151 Operating profit 482 416 Net financial expense (372) (318) Other non-operating income (expenses), net 10 (578) (Loss) income from joint ventures and associates, net (49) 100 Profit (loss) before taxes 71 (379) Charge for taxes, net (180) (150) Loss for the year (109) (529) Profit (loss) for the year from discontinued operations, net of tax 19 (83) Non-controlling interests 58 53 Net profit (loss) for the year attributable to Millicom (32) (559) Total assets 9,627 10,395 Total liabilities 6,258 6,667 Net assets 3,368 3,728 Net cash from operating activities 878 951 Net cash from (used in) investing activities (552) (406) Net cash from (used in) financing activities (441) (285) Exchange impact on cash and cash equivalents, net (8) (82) Net (decrease) increase in cash and cash equivalents (123) 178 Millicom Annual Report 2016 149 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2016 – continued A.2.2. Honduras and Guatemala operations deconsolidation – continued The assets and liabilities of the Guatemala and Honduras operations on 31 December 2016 and 2015 are as follows: 2016 2015 Summary statements of financial position of Guatemala and Honduras operations (US$ millions) Guatemala Honduras Guatemala Honduras Assets Intangible assets, net (excluding goodwill) 1,440 213 1,253 204 Property, plant and equipment, net 717 429 710 320 Other non-current assets 2 1 2 1 Deferred taxes 8 — 4 — Inventories 14 6 22 10 Trade receivables 56 37 58 35 Prepayments 32 6 37 7 Amounts due from related parties 466 184 639 351 Supplier advances 24 — 31 1 Other current assets 24 4 22 8 Restricted cash 4 7 4 — Cash and cash equivalents 289 13 155 13 Total assets 3,077 902 2,937 950 Liabilities Debt and financing 988 402 984 391 Deferred tax liabilities 4 98 2 60 Other non-current liabilities 48 18 26 11 Payables and accruals for capital expenditure 55 35 66 23 Other trade payables 12 12 40 10 Amounts due to related parties 12 7 20 11 Other current provisions and liabilities 132 120 150 119 Total liabilities 1,251 691 1,289 625 Net assets 1,826 210 1,648 325 Millicom Annual Report 2016 150 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2016 – continued A.2.3. Purchase price allocation for Honduras and Guatemala In 2016, the Group had completed the purchase price allocations for both the Guatemala and Honduras operations as of 31 December 2015, the date of recognition of the Group’s investment in both operations as joint ventures. For the purchase accounting, Millicom determined the fair values of these operations based on discounted cash flows. Guatemala – 31 December 2015 Carrying values Fair Values (US$ millions) 55% 55% Change Intangible assets (excluding goodwill), net(i) 689 905 216 Property, plant and equipment, net(ii) 390 409 19 Other non-current assets 3 3 — Current assets (excluding cash) 446 446 — Cash and cash equivalents 87 87 — Total assets 1,615 1,850 235 Non-current financial liabilities 557 560 3 Current liabilities 152 152 — Total liabilities 709 712 3 Carrying value/fair value of assets and liabilities, net 906 1,137 231 Fair value of the Group’s investment in joint venture — 2,237 — Goodwill — 1,100 — (i) I ntangible assets increase mainly consists of step-up recognized on the trademark for an amount of US$71 million, with indefinite useful life and the customer lists for an amount of US$148 million, with estimated remaining useful life of seven years. (ii) Certain network and civil works assets were adjusted to their fair value for an amount of US$19 million. Honduras – 31 December 2015 Carrying values Fair Values (US$ millions) 66.7% 66.7% Change Intangible assets (excluding goodwill), net(i) 136 200 64 Property, plant and equipment, net(ii) 213 307 94 Other non-current assets 1 1 — Current assets (excluding cash) 274 274 — Cash and cash equivalents 9 9 — Total assets 633 791 158 Non-current financial liabilities 308 358 51 Current liabilities 109 109 — Total liabilities 417 467 51 Carrying value/fair value of assets and liabilities, net 216 324 107 Fair value of the Group’s investment in joint venture — 983 — Goodwill — 660 — (i) Intangible assets increase mainly consists of step-up recognized on the customer lists for an amount of US$64 million, with estimated remaining useful life between two and ten years. (ii) Certain property, plant and equipment assets were adjusted to their fair value for an amount of US$94 million. For the year ended 31 December 2016, the additional amortization related to the assets recognized as part of the purchase price allocation exercise (net of tax) amounted to US$22 million for Guatemala and US$19 million for Honduras, at Millicom’s equity stake of which is recorded under the caption “Income from joint ventures, net”. Millicom Annual Report 2016 151 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2016 – continued A.2.4. Impairment of investment in joint ventures While no impairment indicators were identified for the Group’s investments in joint ventures in 2016, according to its policy, Management have completed an impairment test for its joint ventures in Guatemala and Honduras. The impairment test in respect of the Group’s investments in joint ventures (both equity and loans) is conducted on the same basis as for goodwill impairment test (see note E.1.6.). Group’s investments in Guatemala and Honduras operations were tested for impairment by assessing their recoverable amount (using a value in use model based on discounted cash flows) against their carrying amounts. The cash flow projections used were extracted from financial budgets approved by Management and the Board covering a period of five years or more. Cash flows beyond this period have been extrapolated using a perpetual growth rate of 1.0%–2.0%. Discount rates used in determining recoverable amounts were 8.3% and 9.9%, respectively. For the year ended 31 December 2016, and as a result of the impairment testing described above, Management concluded that none of the Group’s investments in joint ventures should be impaired. Sensitivity analysis was performed on key assumptions within the impairment tests. The sensitivity analysis determined that sufficient margin exists from realistic changes to the assumptions that would not impact the overall results of the testing. A.3. Investments in associates Millicom’s investments in associates mainly represent its shareholding in Helios Towers Africa Ltd (HTA) and its investments in the African and Latin American online businesses (AIH and LIH). Millicom has significant influence over these companies but not control or joint control. Our main associates are as follows: 31 December 31 December 2016 2015 Entity Country Activity(ies) % holding % holding Africa Helios Towers Africa Ltd (HTA)(i) Mauritius Holding of Tower infrastructure company 22.83 28.25 Africa Internet Holding GmbH (AIH)(ii) Germany Online marketplace, retail and services 10.15 33.33 West Indian Ocean Cable Company Limited Republic of Mauritius Telecommunication carriers’ carrier 9.1 9.1 (“WIOCC”)(iii) Latin America MKC Brilliant Holding GmbH (LIH) Germany Online marketplace, retail and services 35.0 35.0 Unallocated Milvik AB Sweden Other 26.75 26.75 (i) O  n 7 October 2015, Millicom and HTA signed an agreement whereby Millicom owns 28.25% of shares in HTA (24.4% on a fully diluted basis) following a shareholding exchange. As a result, shares held by Millicom in HTA’s tower companies in Ghana, DRC and Tanzania have been exchanged for shares in HTA (see note A.3.2.). (ii) During 2015, Millicom ceased to jointly control AIH following changes in AIH shareholder rights. Hence AIH has been considered as an investment in associate as from 31 December 2015. (iii) WIOCC was acquired as part of Zantel acquisition (see section A.1.2). At 31 December 2016 the carrying value of Millicom’s main associates was as follows: Carrying value of investments in associates at 31 December (US$ millions) 2016 2015 MKC Brilliant Holding GmbH (LIH) 55 99 African Internet Holding GmbH (AIH) 64 36 Helios Tower Africa Ltd (HTA) 189 215 Milvik AB 9 12 West Indian Ocean Cable Company Limited (WIOCC) 14 13 Total 331 376 Millicom Annual Report 2016 152 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2016 – continued A.3. Investments in associates – continued The summarized financial information for the Group’s main material associates is provided below. Summary of statement of financial position of associates at 31 December (US$ millions) 2016 2015 Total current assets 458 400 Total non-current assets 938 1,427 Total assets 1,395 1,827 Total current liabilities 585 252 Total non-current liabilities 335 530 Total liabilities 920 782 Total net assets 475 1,045 Millicom’s carrying value of its investment in associates 331 376 Share of net profit (loss) from associates (US$ millions) 2016 2015 Revenue 463 237 Operating expenses (329) (420) Operating profit (loss) (172) (183) Net profit (loss) for the year/investment period (257) (143) Millicom’s share of results from associates (49) (47) A.3.1. Accounting for investments in associates The Group accounts for associates in the same way as it accounts for joint ventures. A.3.2. Acquisitions and disposals of interests in associates Africa Internet Holding GmbH (AIH) AIH indirectly owns a number of companies that provide online services and online marketplaces in certain countries in Africa mainly under the brand name of Jumia. Changes in ownership and accounting for AIH Various shareholder funding rounds were signed in late 2015 and in 2016. Millicom did not participate and therefore maintained its initial investment at EUR70 million. In addition, during June 2016, there was a capital restructuring whereby all investors rolled up into AIH. During 2016, these transactions have all been duly executed and as a result Millicom’s shareholding in AIH has been reduced to 10%. This has triggered the recognition of a net dilution gain of US$43 million in the Group income statement under “Income (loss) from associates, net”. Additionally, following the changes in AIH governance which took place in 2015 and as foreseen in the shareholders’ agreement, Millicom lost its joint control but retains a significant influence over AIH – Millicom keeps one Board representative who will continue to participate in the decision making process of AIH. Therefore, at 31 December 2015 and 2016, the investment in AIH is accounted for as an associate using the equity method of accounting. Millicom investment in African towers company, Helios Towers Africa On 7 October 2015, Millicom and Helios Towers Africa (“HTA”) signed an agreement whereby Millicom owns 28.2% of shares in HTA (24% on a fully diluted basis) following a shareholding exchange. Millicom has exchanged shares which were previously held in HTA’s tower companies in Ghana, DRC and Tanzania, into shares in HTA’s parent company and retains significant influence over HTA. This transaction simplified the share ownership structure of HTA, aligned interest among shareholders and moved Millicom’s shareholding to the parent company of HTA. The exchange of shares, which has commercial substance in accordance with IAS 28 and IAS 16, has resulted in the Group recognizing its investment in HTA at fair value and hence a gain on disposal of its investments in the different tower companies of US$147 million under “Income (loss) from joint ventures and associates, net”. During 2016, Millicom’s shareholding has been diluted from 28.2% to 22.8% as a result of previous committed cash calls and new investors’ funding. This has resulted in Millicom recognizing a gain on dilution of US$16 million. The gain has been recorded in the Group income statement under “Income (loss) from associates, net”. Millicom Annual Report 2016 153 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2016 – continued A.3.2. Acquisitions and disposals of interests in associates – continued Latin America Internet Holding GmbH (LIH) During 2015, LIH contributed its investments in its operating subsidiaries Kanui and Tricae to Global Fashion Group in a share for share transaction, recognizing a net gain of US$11 million (Millicom’s share). Global Fashion Group is partly owned by Rocket Internet and Kinnevik. LIH’s shareholding in Global Fashion Group was determined from the relative value of Kanui and Tricae and the post-merger value of Global Fashion Group. During March 2015, LIH disposed of its interest in HelloFood and LIH declared a US$6 million dividend to Millicom, which had been received by 31 December 2015. During 2016, Millicom’s 35% investment in LIH has been impaired by US$40 million mainly as a result of the drop in fair value of LIH’s investment in the Global Fashion Group. A.4. Discontinued operations A.4.1. Classification of discontinued operations Discontinued operations are those which have identifiable operations and cash flows (for both operating and management purposes) and represent a major line of business or geographic area which has been disposed of, or are held for sale. Revenue and expenses associated with discontinued operations are presented retrospectively in a separate line in the consolidated income statement. Millicom considers that the loss of path to control of operations by the termination of a contractual arrangement (e.g. termination without exercise of an unconditional call option agreement giving path to control) does not require presentation as a discontinued operation. A.4.2. Millicom’s discontinued operations In accordance with IFRS 5, the Group’s businesses in DRC have been classified as assets held for sale as from 8 February 2016 and their results were classified as discontinued operations. For further details, refer to note E.3. Millicom Annual Report 2016 154 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2016 – continued B. Performance B.1. Revenue Millicom’s revenue comprises sale of services from its mobile, cable & digital media, and Mobile Financial Services businesses, as well as related devices and equipment. Recurring revenue consists of monthly subscription fees, airtime and data usage fees, interconnection fees, roaming fees, TV services, B2B contracts, mobile finance service commissions and fees from other telecommunications services such as data services, short message services and other value added services. Revenue from continuing operations by business unit (US$ millions) 2016 2015 Mobile 2,505 4,226 Cable & Digital Media 1,398 1,582 Mobile Financial Services 129 123 Telephone and equipment and other 342 641 Total 4,374 6,572 Revenue from continuing operations by country or operation (US$ millions) 2016 2015 Colombia 1,717 1,982 Guatemala — 1,306 Paraguay 623 673 Honduras — 649 Bolivia 542 531 El Salvador 425 448 Tanzania 347 358 Chad 166 152 Costa Rica 152 151 Ghana 142 135 Other countries(i) 260 187 Total 4,374 6,572 (i) Including Zantel from 22 October 2015 to 31 December 2015 and DRC re-presented as discontinued operations. B.1.1. Accounting for revenue Revenue recognition Revenue is measured at the fair value of consideration received or receivable for the sale of good and services, net of value added tax, rebates and discounts and after eliminating intra-group sales. Generally, this is the value of the invoice to the customer. Revenue is recognized to the extent that it is probable that the economic benefits will flow to the Group and the revenue can be reliably measured. Generally, this occurs when the service has been provided to the customer, or when the related equipment is delivered or passed to the customer. Recurring revenue is recognized on an accrual basis, i.e. as the related services are rendered. Unbilled revenue for airtime and data usage and subscription fees resulting from services provided from the billing cycle date to the end of each month are estimated and recorded. Subscription product and service revenue is deferred and recognized over subscription period. Related costs are deferred and recognized over the same period. Where customers purchase a specified amount of airtime or other credit in advance, revenue is recognized as the credit is used. Unused credit is carried in the statement of financial position as deferred revenue within “other current liabilities”. Revenue from the sale of handsets and accessories are recognized when the significant risks and rewards of ownership of handsets and accessories have been passed to the buyer. Bundled offers such as various services sold together, are divided into separate units of accounting if the products and services in the bundle meet certain criteria. The price paid by the customer is then allocated among the separate products and services based on their relative fair values or using the residual method. Revenue is then recognized separately for each product and service. Millicom Annual Report 2016 155 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2016 – continued B.1.1. Accounting for revenue – continued Revenue from content services such as video messaging, ringtones, games, music, eBooks etc., are recognized net of payments to the content providers under certain conditions. These include whether the providers are responsible for the content, determining the price paid by the customer, and where the provider assumes the credit risk. For such services the Group is considered to be acting in substance as an agent. Other revenue is recognized on a gross basis with any third party costs recognized as cost of sales and services. Revenue from provision of Mobile Financial Services is recognized once the primary service has been provided to the customer. Revenue from the sale of cables, fiber, wavelength or capacity contracts, when part of the ordinary activities of the operation, is recognized as recurring revenue. Revenue is recognized when the capacity has been delivered to the customer, based on the amount expected to be received from the customer. Revenue from operating lease of tower space is recognized over the period of the underlying lease contracts. Finance leases revenue is apportioned between lease of tower space and interest income. B.2. Expenses The cost of sales and operating expenses incurred by the Group can be summarized as follows: Cost of sales (US$ millions) 2016 2015(i) Direct costs of services sold (953) (1,153) Cost of telephone, equipment and other accessories (261) (501) Bad debt and obsolescence costs (65) (139) Cost of sales (1,279) (1,793) Operating expenses, net (US$ millions) 2016 2015(i) Marketing expenses (528) (802) Network maintenance costs (231) (334) Employee related costs (B.4.) (483) (634) External and other services (232) (335) Rentals and operating leases (135) (191) Other operating expenses (217) (299) Other operating income 45 5 Operating expenses, net (1,781) (2,590) (i) Included Zantel from 22 October 2015 to 31 December 2015 and DRC re-presented as discontinued operations. B.2.1. Accounting for cost of sales and operating expenses Cost of sales Cost of sales is recorded on an accrual basis. Customer acquisition costs Specific customer acquisition costs, including dealer commissions and handset subsidies, are charged to marketing expenses when the customer is activated. Operating leases Operating leases are all leases that do not qualify as finance leases. Operating lease payments are recognized as expenses in the consolidated income statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term. Millicom Annual Report 2016 156 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2016 – continued B.3. Segmental information Management determines operating and reportable segments based on the reports that are used by the Chief Operating Decision Maker (“CODM”) to make strategic and operational decisions from both a business and geographic perspective. The Group’s risks and rates of return for its operations are predominantly affected by operating in different geographical regions. The Group has businesses in two main regions: Latin America and Africa (2015: three regions: Central and South America and Africa). In 2015, the Group reviewed the presentation of the segment information and introduced EBITDA as a key performance indicator reviewed by the CODM. The deconsolidation of Honduras and Guatemala (note A.2.2.), did not impact our internal reporting for management purposes and therefore Honduras and Guatemala are still shown as fully consolidated in the Group’s segmental reporting. Guatemala Eliminations Year ended 31 December 2016 Latin Unalloand and Subtotal Disc (US$ millions) America Africa cated Total (a) Honduras(v) (b) transfers (c) (a)+(b)+(c) ops(vi) Total Revenue 5,352 896 — 6,249 (1,875) — 4,374 40 4,414 Operating profit (loss) 848 62 (150) 761 (394) 115 482 2 484 Add back: Depreciation and amortization 1,173 188 7 1,368 (440) — 928 3 931 Income (loss) from joint ventures, net — — — — — (115) (115) — (115) Other operating income (expenses), net 42 7 (6) 43 (24) — 20 — 20 EBITDA (i) 2,063 258 (148) 2,172 (858) — 1,314 5 1,319 Capital expenditure(ii) (886) (159) (6) (1,051) Changes in working capital and others 37 (5) (33) (1) Taxes paid (233) (17) (9) (259) Operating Free Cash Flow(iii) 981 77 (197) 861 Total Assets(iv) 10,386 1,406 1,357 11,883 (5,589) 3,332 9,627 Total Liabilities 5,229 1,852 1,997 7,812 (1,942) 388 6,258 Year ended 31 December 2015 Latin UnalloEliminaDisc (US$ millions) America Africa cated Total tions ops(vi) Total Revenue 5,740 829 3 6,572 — 158 6,730 Operating profit (loss) 1,109 (61) (205) 843 — (53) 791 Add back: Depreciation and amortization 1,087 190 4 1,281 — 40 1,321 Other operating income (expenses), net 7 54 3 64 — 2 66 EBITDA(i) 2,204 184 (199) 2,188 — (10) 2,178 Capital expenditure(ii) (950) (181) 8 (1,123) Changes in working capital and others 18 (16) 77 79 Taxes paid (230) (16) (6) (252) Operating Free Cash Flow(iii) 1,041 (30) (119) 892 Total Assets(iv) 10,566 1,979 2,044 14,589 (4,226) — 10,398 Total Liabilities 5,128 2,279 2,769 10,176 (3,504) — 6,670 (i) E BITDA is used by the management to monitor the segmental performance and for capital management. EBITDA is defined in the front section of the Annual Report. (ii) Cash spent for capital expenditure excluding spectrum and licenses of US$39 million (2015: US$47 million). (iii) Operating free cash flow by segment includes share-based compensation as a cash transaction. (iv) Segment assets include goodwill and other intangible assets. (v) Including eliminations for Guatemala and Honduras as reported in the Latin America segment. (vi) See note E.3.2. DRC operations were part of the Africa segment. Millicom Annual Report 2016 157 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2016 – continued B.4. People Number of permanent employees 2016 2015 Continuing operations(i) 13,962 12,698 Guatemala and Honduras 4,023 3,093 Discontinued operations — 165 Total 17,985 15,956 (i) Including Tigo Nicaragua. Emtelco headcount are excluded from this report and any internal reporting because their costs are classified as direct costs and not employee related costs. (US$ millions) Note 2016 2015 (i) Wages and salaries (314) (461) Social security (70) (66) Share based compensation B.4.1. (14) (19) Pension and other long-term benefit costs B.4.3. (6) (20) Other employee related costs (79) (67) Total (483) (634) (i) Including costs for the year for Guatemala and Honduras B.4.1. Share based compensation Millicom shares granted to management and key employee compensation includes share based compensation in the form of long-term share incentive plans. In 2015, Millicom issued four types of plans, a deferred share plan, a performance share plan, an executive share plan and the sign-on CEO share plan (which is a one-off plan). Up until 2015, Millicom had two types of plan, a future performance plan and a deferred share plan. Since 2016, Millicom has two types of plans, a performance share plan and a deferred share plan. The different plans are further detailed below. Cost of share based compensation (US$ millions) 2016 2015 2013 incentive plans — 2 2014 incentive plans (1) (6) 2015 incentive plans (3) (15) 2016 incentive plans (10) — Total share based compensation (14) (19) Deferred Share Plan (unchanged from 2014) For the deferred awards plan, participants are granted shares based on past performance, with 16.5% of the shares vesting on 1 January of each of year one and two, and the remaining 67% on 1 January of year three. Vesting is conditional upon the participant remaining employed with Millicom at each vesting date. The cost of this long-term incentive plan, which is not conditional on performance conditions, is calculated as follows: Fair value (share price) of Millicom’s shares at grant date x number of shares expected to vest. Future Performance Share plan (valid until 2014 and replaced by the Performance Share Plan as from 2015) For the future performance plan, participants earn the right to receive shares on the third anniversary of the grant date. The right and the number of shares that vest are conditional 50% based on Return on Capital Investment (ROIC) and 50% based on EPS and upon the participant remaining employed with Millicom at the vesting date. The cost of this long-term incentive plan, which is not conditional on market conditions, is calculated in the same way as the deferred share plan above. At 31 December 2016, the 2014 future performance plan is vested. Sign-on CEO Share Plan (new in 2015 – one off) As part of his employment contract Millicom CEO (from 1 April 2015) received a sign-on grant of 77,344 shares. Vesting is conditional, among other conditions, on the CEO not being dismissed for cause. The cost of this long-term incentive plan, which is not conditional on market conditions, is calculated in the same way as the deferred share plan above. The expense for this plan has been taken in full during 2015. Millicom Annual Report 2016 158 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2016 – continued B.4.1. Share based compensation – continued Performance Share Plan (issued in 2015) Under this plan, shares granted will vest at the end of the three-year period, subject to performance conditions, 62.5% based on Absolute Total Shareholder Return (“TSR”) and 37.5% based on actual vs budgeted EBITDA – CAPEX – Change in Working Capital (“Free Cash Flow”). As the TSR measure is a market condition, the fair value of the shares in the performance share plan requires adjustment for future market based conditions at grant date. For this, a specific valuation has been performed at grant date based on the probability of the TSR conditions being met (and to which extent) and the expected payout based upon leaving conditions. The free cash flows (“FCF”) condition is a non-market measure which has been considered together with the leaving estimate and based initially on a 100% fulfillment expectation. The reference share price for 2015 Performance Share Plan is the same share price as the share price as the Deferred Share Plan. Executive Share Plan (new 2015) Under this plan, shares were granted to the CEO and CFO based on an allocated holding of 3,333 (CEO) and 2,000 (CFO) shares for which vesting occurs based on three components at multipliers based on market conditions (a TSR for Component A and B) and performance conditions (on actual vs budgeted Free Cash Flow for Component C). The maximum number of shares that might vest under the plan is 26,664 (CEO) and 14,000 (CFO). Subject to the vesting criteria, shares under this plan will vest at the end of a three-year period. Similarly to the Performance Share Plan, a specific valuation has been performed based on the probability of the TSR conditions being met (and to which extent) and the expected payout based upon leaving conditions. The FCF condition being a non-market measure, it has been considered together with the leaving estimate and based initially on a 100% fulfillment expectation. Therefore, the reference share price is the share price on the date that the CEO and the CFO agreed to the Executive Share Plan. Performance Share Plan (issued in 2016) Shares granted under this Performance Share Plan vest at the end of the three-year period, subject to performance conditions, 25% based on Positive Absolute Total Shareholder Return (“Absolute TSR”), 25% based on Relative Total Shareholder Return (“Relative TSR”) and 50% based on budgeted Earnings Before Interest Tax Depreciation and Amortization (“EBITDA”) minus Capital Expenditure (Capex) minus Change in Working Capital (CWC) (“Free Cash Flow”). This Performance Share Plan is measured similarly to the Performance Share Plan issued in 2015, see above. For the Performance Share Plans and the Executive Share Plan, and in order to calculate the fair value of the TSR portion of those plans, it is necessary to make a number of assumptions which are set out below. The assumptions have been set based on an analysis of historical data as at grant date. Share price Risk-free rate Dividend yield volatility(i) Award term Share fair value Assumptions and fair value of the shares under the TSR portion % % % (years) (in US$) Performance Share Plan 2016 (Relative TSR) (0.65) 3.49 30 2.61 43.35 Performance Share Plan 2016 (Absolute TSR) (0.65) 3.49 30 2.61 45.94 Performance Share Plan 2015 (0.32) 2.78 23 2.57 32.87 Executive Share Plan 2015 – Component A (0.32) N/A 23 2.57 53.74 Executive Share Plan 2015 – Component B (0.32) N/A 23 2.57 29.53 (i) Historical volatility retained was determined on the basis of a three-year historic average. Millicom Annual Report 2016 159 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2016 – continued B.4.1. Share based compensation – continued The cost of the long-term incentive plans which are conditional on market conditions is calculated as follows: Fair value (market value) of shares at grant date (as calculated above) x number of shares expected to vest. The cost of these plans is recognized, together with a corresponding increase in equity (share compensation reserve), over the period in which the performance and/or employment conditions are fulfilled, ending on the date on which the relevant employees become fully entitled to the award. Adjustments are made to the expense recorded for forfeitures, mainly due to management and employees leaving Millicom. Nonmarket performance conditions are not taken into account when determining the grant date fair value of awards, but the likelihood of the conditions being met is assessed as part of the Group’s best estimate of the number of equity instruments that will ultimately vest. No expense is recognized for awards that do not ultimately vest, except for awards where vesting is conditional upon a market condition. These are treated as vested regardless of whether or not the market conditions are satisfied, provided that all other performance conditions are satisfied. Where the terms of an equity-settled award are modified, as a minimum an expense is recognized as if the terms had not been modified. In addition, an expense is recognized for any modification that increases the total fair value of the share based payment arrangement, or is otherwise beneficial to the employee as measured at the date of modification. Plan awards and shares 2016 Plans 2015 Plans 2014 Plans 2013 Plans expected to vest PerformDeferred PerformExecuCEO Deferred Future Deferred Future Deferred (number of shares) ance plan plan ance plan tive plan plan plan plan plan plan plan Initial shares granted 200,617 285,978 98,137 40,664 77,344 237,620 164,015 219,767 173,586 208,979 Additional shares granted(i) — 1,338 — — — — — 1,306 13,453 4,165 Total shares granted 200,617 287,316 98,137 40,664 77,344 237,620 164,015 221,073 187,039 213,144 Revision for forfeitures (10,331) (26,222) (26,826) (51,129) (124,603) (79,702) (151,967) (76,184) Total before issuances 190,286 261,094 71,311 40,664 77,344 186,491 39,412 141,371 35,072 136,690 Shares issued in 2014 — — — — — — — — — (31,977) Shares issued in 2015 — — — — — — — (32,555) — (25,889) Shares issued in 2016 (1,214) (1,733) (771) (25,781) (38,745) — (25,508) (35,072) (79,094) Performance conditions — — — — — — — — — — Shares still expected to vest 189,072 259,361 70,540 40,664 51,563 147,746 39,412 83,308 n/a n/a Estimated cost over the vesting period (US$ millions) 8 16 4 2 6 15 5 16 n/a n/a (i) Additional shares granted include new joiners and/or consideration for the impact of special dividends paid in 2012. B.4.2. Share options Prior to 2006, Millicom granted options to directors, senior executives, officers and selected employees. The exercise price of the granted options was equal to or higher than the market price of the shares on the date of grant. The options were conditional on the employee or director completing one to five years of service (the vesting period) and were exercisable starting from one year to five years from the grant date. Shares issued from exercise of share options have the same rights as common shares. By 31 December 2015 all share options had been exercised. The cost of share options was recorded in the exercise periods (until and prior to 2011). 2016 2015 Average exercise Average exercise price in US$ Number of price in US$ Number of Movements in share options per share options per share options Outstanding at beginning of the year — — 22.55 45,000 Expired or forfeited — — — — Exercised — — (45,000) Outstanding and exercisable at end of year — — — — Millicom Annual Report 2016 160 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2016 – continued B.4.3. Pension and other long term employee benefit plans Pension Plans The pension plans apply to employees who meet certain criteria (including years of service, age and participation in collective agreements). Pension and other similar employee related obligations can result from either defined contribution plans or defined benefit plans. A defined contribution plan is a pension plan under which the Group pays fixed contributions into a separate entity. No further payment obligations exist once the contributions have been paid. The contributions are recognized as employee benefit expenses when they are due. Prepaid contributions are recognized as assets to the extent that a cash refund or a reduction in future payments is available. Defined benefit pension plans define an amount of pension benefit that an employee will receive on retirement, usually dependent on one or more factors such as age, years of service and compensation. The liability recognized in the statement of financial position in respect of the defined benefit pension plan is the present value of the defined benefit obligation at the statement of financial position date less the fair value of plan assets, together with adjustments for unrecognized actuarial gains or losses and past service costs. The defined benefit obligation is calculated annually by independent actuaries. The present value of the defined benefit obligation is determined by discounting the estimated future cash outflows, using an appropriate discount rate based on maturities of the related pension liability. Re-measurement of net defined benefit liabilities are recognized in other comprehensive income and not reclassified to the income statement in subsequent years. Past service costs are recognized in the income statement on the earlier of the date of the plan amendment or curtailment, and the date that the Group recognizes related restructuring costs. Net interest is calculated by applying the discount rate to the net defined benefit asset/liability. Long-Service Plans Long-service plans apply to employees with more than five years of service whereby additional bonuses are paid to employees that reach each incremental length of service milestone (from five to 40 years). Termination Plans The Group’s Colombian subsidiary UNE has a number of employee defined benefit plans. The level of benefits provided under the plans depends on collective employment agreements and Colombian labor regulations. There are no defined assets related to the plans, and UNE make payments to settle obligations under the plans out of available cash balances. At 31 December 2016, the defined benefit obligation liability amounted to US$37 million (2015: US$37 million) and payments expected in the plans in future years totals US$86 million (2015: US$92 million). The average duration of the defined benefit obligation at 31 December 2016 is seven years (2015: eight years). The termination plans apply to employees that joined UNE prior to 30 December 1996. The level of payments depends on the number of years in which the employee has worked before retirement or termination of their contract with UNE. Except for the UNE pension plan described above, there are no other significant defined benefits plans in the Group. B.4.4. Directors’ and Executive Management The remuneration of the members of the Board of Directors comprises an annual fee and shares. Director remuneration is proposed by the Nomination Committee and approved by the shareholders at the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders (the “AGM”). Remuneration charge for the Board (gross of withholding tax) (US$ ’000) 2016 2015 Chairperson 243 180 Other members of the Board(i) 900 878 Total(ii) 1,143 1,058 (i) I n addition, in 2015, US$62,700 (EUR 57,000) was paid to three directors for their work on the special committee. (ii) Cash compensation converted from SEK to USD at exchange rates on payments dates each year. Share based compensation based on the market value of Millicom shares on the 2016 AGM date (in total 8,002 shares). Net remuneration comprised 50% in shares and 50% in cash (SEK) (2015: 38% in shares and 62% in cash). Shares beneficially owned by the Directors (number of shares) 2016 2015 Chairperson 3,000 80,645 Other members of the Board 24,316 17,013 Total 27,316 97,658 The remuneration of executive management of Millicom comprises an annual base salary, an annual bonus, share based compensation, social security contributions, pension contributions and other benefits. Bonus and share based compensation plans (see note B.4.1.) are based on actual and future performance. Share based compensation is granted once a year by the Compensation Committee of the Board. If the employment of Millicom’s senior executives is terminated, severance of up to 12 months’ salary is potentially payable. Millicom Annual Report 2016 161 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2016 – continued B.4.4. Directors’ and Executive Management – continued The annual base salary and other benefits of the Chief Executive Officer (“CEO”) and the Executive Vice Presidents (“Executive Team”) is proposed by the Compensation Committee and approved by the Board. Remuneration charge for the Executive Team Executive Team (US$ ’000) CEO CFO (9 members) 2016 Base salary 1,000 599 3,797 Bonus 660 450 1,411 Pension 150 82 513 Other benefits 48 18 720 Termination benefits — — — Total before share based compensation 1,858 1,149 6,441 Share based compensation(i)(ii) in respect of 2016 LTIP 2,660 1,481 4,031 Total 4,518 2,630 10,472 Remuneration charge for the Executive Team Executive Team (US$ ’000) CEO Former CEO CFO (10 members) 2015 Base salary 750 304 989 3,721 Bonus 1,006 — 1,206 1,870 Pension 113 — 95 671 Other benefits 11 — 14 1,085 Termination benefits — 2,854 — 682 Total before share based compensation 1,880 3,158 2,304 8,029 Share based compensation(i)(ii) in respect of 2015 LTIP 7,501 — 1,051 3,823 Total 9,381 3,158 3,355 11,852 (i) S ee note B.4.1. (ii) Share awards of 49,171 and 104,573 were granted in 2016 under the 2016 LTIPs to the CEO, and Executive Team (2015: 104,800 and 64,930, respectively). Shares and unvested share awards beneficially owned by the Executive Team (number of shares) CEO Executive Team Total 2016 Shares 27,020 34,472 61,492 Share awards not vested 114,739 173,399 288,138 2015 Shares — 11,714 11,714 Share awards not vested 104,008 82,823 186,831 B.5. Other non-operating (expenses) income, net Non-operating items mainly comprise changes in values of options, derivatives and the impact of foreign exchange fluctuations on results of the Group. Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December US$ millions 2016 2015 Change in carrying value / lapse of put options (see note C.6.3.) — 125 Change in carrying value / lapse of call options (see note C.6.3.) — (71) Change in fair value of derivatives (see note D.1.2.) 3 32 Exchange gain (loss), net 16 (304) Loss on deconsolidation of Honduras and Guatemala, including recycling of foreign currency exchange losses accumulated in equity (see note A.2.2.) — (391) Other non-operating income (expenses), net (8) (15) Total 10 (624) Millicom Annual Report 2016 162 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2016 – continued B.5. Other non-operating (expenses) income, net – continued Foreign exchange gains and losses Transactions denominated in a currency other than the functional currency are translated into the functional currency using exchange rates prevailing on transaction dates. Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the settlement of such transactions, and on translation of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the functional currency at year-end exchange rates, are recognized in the consolidated income statement, except when deferred in equity as qualifying cash flow hedges. B.6. Taxation B.6.1. Income tax expense Tax mainly comprises income taxes of subsidiaries and withholding taxes on intragroup dividends and royalties for use of Millicom trademarks and brands. Millicom operations are in jurisdictions with income tax rates of 10% to 40% levied on either revenue or profit before income tax (2015: 10% to 40%). Income tax relating to items recognized directly in equity is recognized in equity and not in the consolidated income statement. Income tax charge (US$ millions) 2016 2015 Income tax (charge) credit Withholding tax (44) (76) Other income tax relating to the current year (73) (201) (117) (277) Adjustments in respect of prior years (27) 6 (144) (271) Deferred tax (charge) credit Origination and reversal of temporary differences 53 142 Effect of change in tax rates 1 (14) 54 128 (Increase) decrease in unrecognized deferred tax assets (97) (126) (43) 2 Adjustments in respect of prior years 7 (9) (36) (7) Tax (charge) credit on continuing operations (180) (278) Tax (charge) credit on discontinuing operations 6 (13) Total tax (charge) credit (174) (291) Reconciliation between the tax expense and tax at the weighted average statutory tax rate is as follows: 2016 2015 Income tax calculation Continuing Discont’d Continuing Discont’d (US$ millions) operations operations Total operations operations Total Profit before tax 71 13 84 (83) (70) (153) Tax at the weighted average statutory rate 19 (4) 15 62 24 86 Effect of: Items taxed at a different rate 14 — 14 21 — 21 Change in tax rates on deferred tax balances 1 — 1 (15) — (15) Expenditure not deductible and income not taxable (66) 9 (57) (234) (7) (241) Unrelieved withholding tax (44) — (44) (76) — (76) Accounting for associates and joint ventures 29 — 29 23 — 23 Movement in deferred tax on unremitted earnings (16) — (16) 7 — 7 Unrecognized deferred tax assets (115) (5) (120) (127) (30) (157) Recognition of previously unrecognized deferred tax assets 18 — 18 64 — 64 Adjustments in respect of prior years (20) 6 (14) (3) — (3) Total tax (charge) credit (180) 6 (174) (278) (13) (291) Weighted average statutory tax rate 26.8% 17.9% 74.7% 56.2% Effective tax rate 253.5% 207.1% 334.9% 190.2% Millicom Annual Report 2016 163 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2016 – continued B.6.2. Current tax assets and liabilities Current tax assets and liabilities for current and prior periods are measured at the amount expected to be recovered from or paid to the taxation authorities. The tax rate and tax laws used to compute the amount are those enacted or substantively enacted by the statement of financial position date. B.6.3. Deferred tax Deferred tax is calculated using the liability method on temporary differences at the statement of financial position date between the tax base of assets and liabilities and their carrying amount for financial reporting purposes. Deferred tax liabilities are recognized for all taxable temporary differences, except where the deferred tax liability arises from the initial recognition of goodwill or of an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business combination and, at the time of the transaction, affects neither accounting, nor taxable profit or loss. Deferred tax assets are recognized for all temporary differences including unused tax credits and tax losses, to the extent that it is probable that taxable profit will be available against which the deductible temporary differences can be utilized, except where the deferred tax assets relate to deductible temporary differences from initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business combination, and, at the time of the transaction, affects neither accounting, nor taxable profit or loss. The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each statement of financial position date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profit will be available to utilize them. Unrecognized deferred tax assets are reassessed at each statement of financial position date and are recognized to the extent it is probable that future taxable profit will enable the asset to be recovered. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured at the tax rate expected to apply in the year when the assets are realized or liabilities settled, based on tax rates and tax laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the statement of financial position date. Deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities are offset where legally enforceable set off rights exist and the deferred taxes relate to the same taxable entity and the same taxation authority. Deferred tax Fixed Unused tax Unremitted (US$ millions)(i) assets losses earnings Other Offset Total Balance at 1 January 2015 (140) 153 (23) 120 110 Acquisitions — — — — — Effect of deconsolidation 55 — — 2 57 Adjustments to goodwill (22) 22 — — — (Charge)/credit to income statement 38 (45) 6 (6) (7) (Charge)/credit to other comprehensive income — — — — — Exchange differences 22 (21) 1 (24) (22) (47) 109 (16) 92 138 Deferred tax assets 81 109 — 108 (110) 188 Deferred tax liabilities (128) — (16) (16) 110 (50) Balance at 31 December 2015 (47) 109 (16) 92 — 138 Acquisitions — — — — — Transfers to Assets Held for Sale (1) — — — (1) (Charge)/credit to income statement 24 3 (16) (47) (36) (Charge)/credit to other comprehensive income — — — 1 1 Exchange differences 1 1 — 5 7 (23) 113 (32) 51 109 Deferred tax assets 84 113 — 65 (96) 166 Deferred tax liabilities (107) — (32) (14) 96 (57) Balance at 31 December 2016 (23) 113 (32) 51 — 109 (i) Comparative information has been restated after finalization of Zantel’s purchase accounting (note A.1.2.). Millicom Annual Report 2016 164 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2016 – continued B.6.3. Deferred tax – continued The Group historically recognized a deferred tax asset of US$70 million on the tax losses of the Company. Based on re-assessment made during 2015, management concluded that the deferred tax asset can no longer be supported and it has been reversed late 2015. There is no cash tax impact and this treatment does not impact the availability of the tax losses in the future. Deferred tax assets have not been recognized in respect of the following deductible temporary differences: Deductible temporary differences Unused tax (US$ millions) Fixed assets losses Other Total At 31 December 2016 68 4,501 190 4,759 At 31 December 2015 77 2,636 60 2,773 Unrecognized loss carryforwards expire as follows: Unrecognized tax losses related to continuing operations (US$ millions) 2016 2015 Expiry: Within one year 27 152 Within one to five years 493 282 No expiry 3,981 2,202 Total 4,501 2,636 At 31 December 2016, Millicom had US$1,696 million of unremitted earnings of Millicom operating subsidiaries for which no deferred tax liabilities were recognized (2015: US$921 million). Except for intragroup dividends to be paid out of 2016 profits in 2017 for which deferred tax of US$32m has been provided, it is anticipated that intragroup dividends paid in future periods will be made out of profits of future periods. B.7. Earnings per share Basic earnings per share are calculated by dividing net profit for the year attributable to equity holders of the Company by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the year. Diluted earnings per share are calculated by dividing the net profit for the year attributable to equity holders of the Company by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the year, plus the weighted average number of dilutive potential shares. Net profit/(loss) used in the earnings per share computation (US$ millions) 2016 2015 Basic and diluted: Net profit/(loss) attributable to equity holders from continuing operations (51) (476) Net profit/(loss) attributable to equity holders from discontinued operations 19 (83) Net profit/(loss) attributable to all equity holders to determine the basic earnings per share (32) (559) Weighted average number of shares in the earnings per share computation (thousands of shares) 2016 2015 Weighted average number of ordinary shares (excluding treasury shares) for basic earnings per share 100,337 100,144 Potential incremental shares as a result of share options — 10 Weighted average number of ordinary shares (excluding treasury shares) adjusted for the effect of dilution 100,337 100,154 Millicom Annual Report 2016 165 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2016 – continued C. Capital structure and financing C.1. Share capital, share premium and reserves Common shares are classified as equity. Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares are shown in equity as a deduction from the proceeds. Where any Group company purchases the Company’s share capital, the consideration paid including any directly attributable incremental costs is shown under “Treasury shares” and deducted from equity attributable to the Company’s equity holders until the shares are canceled, reissued or disposed of. Where such shares are subsequently sold or reissued, any consideration received, net of any directly attributable incremental costs and the related income tax effects is included in equity attributable to the Company’s equity holders. Share capital, share premium 2016 2015 Authorized and registered share capital (number of shares) 133,333,200 133,333,200 Subscribed and fully paid up share capital (number of shares) 101,739,217 101,739,217 Par value per share US$1.50 US$1.50 Share capital (US$ millions) 153 153 Share premium (US$ millions) 485 486 Total (US$ millions) 638 639 Equity settled Currency Pension Other equity reserves transaction Hedge translation obligation (US$ millions) Legal reserve reserve reserve reserve reserve Total As of 31 December 2014 16 44 2 (453) 1 (389) Share based compensation — 19 — — — 19 Issuance of shares – 2012, 2013, 2014 LTIPs — (18) — — — (18) Remeasurements of post-employment benefit obligations — — — — — — Cash flow hedge reserve movement — — (3) — — (3) Effect of deconsolidation (see note A.2.2.) — — — 192 — 192 Currency translation movement — — — (332) — (332) As of 31 December 2015 16 46 (1) (593) 1 (531) Share based compensation — 14 — — — 14 Issuance of shares – 2013, 2014, 2015 LTIPs — (17) — — — (17) Remeasurements of post-employment benefit obligations — — — — (2) (2) Cash flow hedge reserve movement — — (3) — — (3) Currency translation movement — — — (23) — (23) As of 31 December 2016 16 43 (4) (616) (1) (562) C.1.1. Legal reserve If Millicom International Cellular S.A. reports an annual net profit on a non-consolidated basis, Luxembourg law requires appropriation of an amount equal to at least 5% of the annual net profit to a legal reserve until such reserve equals 10% of the issued share capital. This reserve is not available for dividend distribution. No appropriation was required in 2015 or 2016 as the 10% minimum level was reached in 2011 and maintained each subsequent year. C.1.2. Equity settled transaction reserve The cost of share options and LTIPs is recognized as an increase in the equity-settled transaction reserve over the period in which the performance and/or service conditions are rendered. When the options are exercised their cost is transferred from the equity-settled transaction reserve to share capital and share premium. When shares under the LTIPs vest and are issued the corresponding reserve is transferred to share premium. C.1.3. Hedge reserve The effective portions of changes in value of cash flow hedges are recorded in the hedge reserve (see note C.1.). C.1.4. Currency translation reserve In the financial statements, the relevant captions in the statements of financial position of subsidiaries without US dollar functional currencies are translated to US dollars using the closing exchange rate. Income statements or income statement captions (included those of joint ventures and associates) are translated to US dollars at monthly average exchange rates during the year. The currency translation reserve includes foreign exchange gains and losses arising from these translations. Millicom Annual Report 2016 166 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2016 – continued C.2. Dividend distributions On 17 May 2016 a dividend distribution of US$2.64 per share from Millicom’s retained profits at 31 December 2015 was approved by the shareholders at the Annual General Meeting and distributed in May 2016. On 15 May 2015 a dividend distribution of US$2.64 per share from Millicom’s retained profits at 31 December 2014 was approved by the shareholders at the Annual General Meeting and distributed in June 2015. The ability of the Company to make dividend payments is subject to, among other things, the terms of indebtedness, legal restrictions and the ability to repatriate funds from Millicom’s various operations. At 31 December 2016, US$321 million (31 December 2015: US$384 million) of Millicom’s retained profits represent statutory reserves that are unavailable to be distributed to owners of the Company. C.3. Debt and financing Debt and financing by type (US$ millions) Note 2016 2015 Debt and financing due after more than one year Bonds C.3.1. 2,561 2,630 Banks C.3.2. 940 877 Finance leases C.3.3. 290 327 Other financing 95 32 Total non-current financing 3,886 3,866 Less: portion payable within one year (65) (77) Total non-current financing due after more than one year 3,821 3,789 Debt and financing due within one year Bonds C.3.1. — 46 Banks C.3.2. — 89 Finance leases C.3.3. 5 9 Other financing 10 — Total current debt and financing 15 144 Add: portion of non-current debt payable within one year 65 77 Total 80 221 Total debt and financing 3,901 4,010 Debt and financing by location (i) (US$ millions) 2016 2015 Millicom International Cellular S.A. (Luxembourg) 1,747 2,003 Colombia 841 660 Paraguay 408 412 Bolivia 306 253 Tanzania 192 214 Rwanda 80 131 Chad 76 109 Ghana 54 61 DRC — 40 Senegal 14 17 Cable Central America 92 104 El Salvador 89 6 Total debt and financing 3,901 4,010 (i) No amounts appear in 2015 and 2016 for Guatemala and Honduras because of their deconsolidation. Millicom Annual Report 2016 167 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2016 – continued C.3. Debt and financing – continued Debt and financings are initially recognized at fair value, net of directly attributable transaction costs. They are subsequently measured at amortized cost using the effective interest rate method or at fair value. Amortized cost is calculated by taking into account any discount or premium on acquisition and any fees or costs that are an integral part of the effective interest rate. Any difference between the initial amount and the maturity amount is recognized in the consolidated income statement over the period of the borrowing. Borrowings are classified as current liabilities, unless the Group has an unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability for at least 12 months from the statement of financial position date. C.3.1. Bond financing Bond financing Interest rate (US$ millions) Note Country Maturity % 2016 2015 SEK Senior Unsecured Variable Rate Notes (1) Luxembourg 2017 STIBOR +3.5 (i) — 207 SEK Senior Unsecured Fixed Rate Notes (1) Luxembourg 2017 5.125 — 27 USD 4.75% Senior Notes (2) Luxembourg 2020 4.75 333 486 USD 6% Senior Notes (3) Luxembourg 2025 6 495 494 USD 6.625% Senior Notes (4) Luxembourg 2021 6.625 652 791 SEK Senior Unsecured Variable Rate Notes (5) Luxembourg 2019 STIBOR +3.3 217 — USD 6.75% Senior Notes (6) Paraguay 2022 6.75 296 295 USD 6.875% Senior Notes(ii) (7) Guatemala 2024 6.875 — — BOB 4.75% Notes (8) Bolivia 2020 4.75 112 135 BOB 4.05% Notes (8) Bolivia 2020 4.05 15 15 BOB 4.85% Notes (8) Bolivia 2023 4.85 85 85 BOB 3.95% Notes (8) Bolivia 2024 3.95 50 — BOB 4.30% Notes (8) Bolivia 2029 4.30 25 — UNE Bond 1 (tranches A and B) (9) Colombia 2020 CPI + 5.10 50 47 UNE Bond 2 (tranches A and B) (9) Colombia 2016/2023 CPI + 3.70 / 4.80 50 94 UNE Bond 3 (tranche A) (9) Colombia 2024 9.35 53 — UNE Bond 3 (tranche B) (9) Colombia 2026 CPI+4.15 85 — UNE Bond 3 (tranche C) (9) Colombia 2036 CPI+4.89 43 — Total bond financing 2,561 2,676 (i) STIBOR – Swedish Interbank Offered Rate. (ii) No amounts appear in 2015 and 2016 for Guatemala because of their deconsolidation and classification as joint ventures. (1) SEK Senior Unsecured Notes On 30 October 2012 Millicom issued Senior Unsecured Floating Rate Notes of Swedish Krona (“SEK”) 1.75 billion and Senior Unsecured Fixed Rate Notes of SEK 0.25 billion both repayable in five years. At the same time, Millicom entered into various cross currency interest rate swap contracts whereby Millicom will receive SEK and sell USD to hedge against exchange and interest rate fluctuations. On 12 April 2016, Millicom offered to purchase for cash any and all of its SEK 250 million (approximately US$31 million) 5.125% Senior Unsecured Fixed Rate Notes due 2017 (the “Fixed Rate Notes”) and its SEK 1.75 billion (approximately US$219 million) STIBOR +3.500% Senior Unsecured Floating Rate Notes due 2017 (the “Floating Rate Notes”, and together with the Fixed Rate Notes, the “Notes”). Following the early and regular tender offers, SEK 186 million (approximately US$23 million) and SEK 1.498 billion (approximately US$187 million) in aggregate principal amount of the Fixed Rate Notes and the Floating Rate Notes, respectively, have been repaid. Millicom has paid to such noteholders 105.8% and 102.8% of the nominal amount of the Fixed Rate Notes and the Floating Rate Notes, respectively, together with any accrued interest. After settlement, SEK 64 million (approximately US$8 million) in aggregate principal amount of the Fixed Rate Notes (25.6%) and SEK252 million (approximately US$32 million) in aggregate principal amount of the Floating Rate Notes (14.4%) remained outstanding. On 19 September 2016, the Group has notified holders of both Bonds of the early voluntary redemption of the notes in full. The outstanding notes totaling SEK 316 million (approximately US$40 million) of principal were redeemed in October 2016. The total early redemption fees amounting to US$8 million have been recorded under interest expenses. The remaining US$1 million of related unamortized costs were also expensed during 2016. Millicom Annual Report 2016 168 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2016 – continued C.3.1. Bond financing – continued (2) USD 4.75% Senior Notes On 22 May 2013, Millicom issued a US$500 million fixed interest rate bond to refinance most of the external debt outstanding at the time in its African operations. Withheld costs of issuance of US$10 million and paid costs of US$9 million are amortized over the seven-year life of the notes (effective interest rate of 5.29%). In August 2015, Millicom obtained consent from its noteholders to amend certain covenant terms and conditions to align to its other credit facilities. The covenant was increased to 3.0x Net Debt/EBITDA. In November 2016, MIC S.A. announced an offer to purchase for cash up to US$300 million of its 4.750% Senior Notes due 2020 and its 6.625% Senior Notes due 2021 (the “Notes”). In December 2016, the Company confirmed that it had accepted to purchase US$300 million in aggregate principal amount of the Notes of which US$158 million of its 4.750% Senior Notes due 2020. The early redemption fees amounting to US$3 million and US$3 million of related unamortized costs have been expensed in December 2016 under interest expenses. (3) USD 6% Senior Notes On 11 March 2015, Millicom issued a US$500 million 6% fixed interest rate bond repayable in ten years, to repay the El Salvador 8% Senior Notes and for general corporate purposes. The bond was issued at 100% of the principal and has an effective interest rate of 6.132%. US$7.2 million of withheld and upfront costs are being amortized over the ten-year life of the bond. (4) USD 6.625% Senior Notes On 16 October 2013, Millicom issued a US$800 million bond. The funds were used to finance the Colombian Merger (see note A.1.2.), and released from the escrow account prior to completion of the merger on 14 August 2014 (effective interest rate of 7.17%). In August 2015, Millicom obtained consent from its noteholders to amend certain covenant terms and conditions to align to its other credit facilities. The covenant was increased to 3.0x Net Debt/EBITDA. As part of the offer for early redemption described in (2) above, the Company confirmed that it had accepted for purchase US$142 million of principal of its 6.625% Senior Notes due 2021. The early redemption fees amounting to US$8 million and US$2 million of related unamortized costs have been expensed in December 2016 under interest expenses. (5) SEK Senior Unsecured Notes On 21 April 2016, Millicom also completed the placing of a new SEK 2 billion (approximately US$250 million) 3-year floating rate bond in the Swedish market. The new bond has a floating rate coupon of three months STIBOR +3.3% and will mature on 17 April 2019, with a first call option on 17 April 2018. The bond was issued at 100% of the principal. US$2.5 million of withheld and upfront costs are being amortized over the three year life of the bond. The covenant is set at 3.0x Net Debt/EBITDA. (6) USD 6.75% Senior Notes On 7 December 2012, Telefónica Cellular del Paraguay S.A., Millicom’s fully owned subsidiary in Paraguay issued US$300 million of notes at 100% of the aggregate principal amount. Distribution and other transaction fees of US$7 million reduced the total proceeds from issuance to US$293 million. The 6.75% Senior Notes have a 6.75% per annum coupon with interest payable semi-annually in arrears on 13 June and 13 December. The effective interest rate is 7.12%. The 6.75% Senior Notes are general unsecured obligations of Telefónica Celular del Paraguay S.A. and rank equal in right of payment with all future unsecured and unsubordinated obligations of Telefónica Celular del Paraguay S.A. The 6.75% Senior Notes are unguaranteed. (7) USD 6.875% Senior Notes In January 2014, Intertrust SPV (Cayman) Limited, acting as trustee of the Comcel Trust, a trust established and consolidated by Comcel for the purposes of the transaction, issued a bond to refinance existing local and MIC S.A. corporate debt. The bond was issued at 98.233% of the principal and has an effective interest rate of 7.168%. The bond is guaranteed by Comcel and listed on the Luxembourg Stock Exchange. Simultaneously with, and using the proceeds from, the bond, Comcel entered into an US$800 million senior unsecured loan with a bank. The proceeds of the bond were used by Intertrust SPV to purchase a 100% participation interest in the loan pursuant to a credit and guarantee. The loan agreements between Intertrust, the bank and Comcel remove any risk to the bank connected to the loans, and as such the Group has offset its asset against its liability towards the bank from the date of the agreement. Following the deconsolidation of Guatemala as of 31 December 2015, the asset and liability have both been deconsolidated at that date. Millicom Annual Report 2016 169 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2016 – continued C.3.1. Bond financing – continued (8) BOB Notes In May 2012, Telecel Bolivia issued Boliviano (BOB) 1.36 billion of notes repayable in installments until 2 April 2020. Distribution and other transaction fees of BOB 5 million reduced the total proceeds from issuance to BOB 1.32 billion (US$191 million). The bond has a 4.75% per annum coupon with interest payable semi-annually in arrears in May and November each year. The effective interest rate is 4.79%. In November 2015, Telecel Bolivia issued BOB696 million (approximately US$100 million) of notes in two series, A for BOB104.4 million (approximately US$15 million), with a fixed annual interest rate of 4.05%, maturing in August 2020 and serie B for BOB591.6 million (approximately US$85 million) with a fixed annual interest rate of 4.85%, maturing in August 2023. The bond has coupon with interest payable semi-annually in arrears in March and September during the first two years, thereafter each February and August. The effective interest rate is 4.84%. In the placement, the final interest rate was reduced as Telecel Bolivia took advantage of strong demand for the bonds resulting in a reduction of the average interest rate to 4.55%. Telecel Bolivia received BOB4.59 million in excess of the BOB696 million issued (upfront premium). On 11 August 2016, our operation in Bolivia issued a new bond for a total amount of BOB522 million consisting of two tranches (approximately US$50 million and US$25 million, respectively). Tranche A and B bear fixed interest at 3.95% and 4.30%, and will mature in June 2024 and June 2029, respectively. (9) UNE Bonds In March 2010, UNE issued a COP 300 billion (approximately US$126 million) five and ten-year bond consisting of two tranches. Interest rates are either fixed or variable depending on the tranche. Tranche A bears variable interest, based on CPI, in Colombian peso and paid in Colombian peso. Tranche B bears variable interest, based on Fixed Term Deposits, in Colombian peso and paid in Colombian peso. UNE applied the proceeds to finance its investment plan. Tranche A matured in March 2015 and Tranche B will mature in March 2020. In May 2011, UNE issued a COP 300 billion (approximately US$126 million) five and 12-year bond consisting of two equal tranches. Interest rates are variable and depend on the tranche. Tranche A bears variable interest, based on CPI, in Colombian peso and paid in Colombian peso. Tranche B bears variable interest, based on Fixed Term Deposits, in Colombian peso and paid in Colombian peso. UNE applied the proceeds to finance its investment plan. Tranche A matured in October 2016 and Tranche B will mature in October 2023. In May 2016, UNE issued a COP 540 billion bond (approximately US$176 million) consisting of three tranches (approximately US$52 million, US$83 million and US$41 million respectively). Interest rates are either fixed or variable depending on the tranche. Tranche A bears fixed interest at 9.35%, while Tranche B and C bear variable interest, based on CPI, (respective margins of CPI+4.15% and CPI+4.89%), in Colombian peso. UNE applied the proceeds to finance its investment plan and repay one bond (COP150 billion tranche). Tranches A, B and C will mature in May 2024, May 2026 and May 2036, respectively. USD 8% Senior Notes On 23 September 2010, Telemóvil Finance Co. Ltd., issued US$450 million aggregate principal amount 8% Senior Notes due on 1 October 2017. The 8% Senior Notes have an 8% per annum coupon with an 8.25% yield and were payable semi-annually in arrears on 1 April and 1 October. On 18 March 2015 Millicom tendered an offer to early redeem the remaining US$311 million of the US$450 million bond issued by Telemovil Finance Co. Ltd in 2010 for US$323 million including an early redemption premium of US$12 million over the face value of the bonds. The repurchase was completed on 20 April 2015. The early redemption premium of US$12 million premium and US$4 million of related unamortized costs were expensed in 2015. Millicom Annual Report 2016 170 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2016 – continued C.3.2. Bank financing Bank financing Interest rate (US$ millions) Country Maturity % 2016 2015 Fixed rate loans Long-term loans Paraguay 2020/2023 9 103 92 Variable rate loans USD Long-term loans Costa Rica 2021 4 variable 92 104 USD Long-term loans Chad 2019 4 variable 7 11 USD Long-term loans Rwanda 2019 2.9 variable 69 119 USD Long-term loans Tanzania (Zantel) 2020 4.1 variable 99 100 BOB Long-term loans Bolivia 2019 6 variable 1 1 USD Short-term loans Ghana 2018 3.5 variable 40 40 COP Long-term loans Colombia (UNE) 2023/2025 10.4 variable(i) 400 381 USD Senior Unsecured Term Loan Facility El Salvador 2021 LIBOR + 3.0 50 — USD Credit Facility El Salvador 2021 LIBOR + 2.25 33 — Other Long-term loans Various Various 46 118 Total Bank financing 940 966 (i) IBR – Colombia Interbank Rate. MIC S.A. revolving credit facility In June 2014, MIC S.A. entered into a $500 million revolving credit facility with a consortium of banks (the “2014 RCF”) of which $200 million (Facility A) is for a 2-year term and $300 million (Facility B) is for a 3-year term. In May 2015 both facilities were extended for one year. As of 31 December 2016, the facility was committed and fully undrawn. In the fourth quarter of 2016, Millicom initiated the renegotiation of its Revolving Credit Facility which was partially maturing in June 2017. By year end 2016, having secured over $500 million of commitments from relationship banks through a refinancing process, the Group accelerated the amortization of the upfront costs incurred in relation with the 2014 RCF and totalling then $2 million. On 30 January 2017, the Company announced the closing of a new $ 600 million, 5 years Revolving Credit Facility and notified the lenders in the 2014 RCF of the formal cancellation of the commitments outstanding under the 2014 RCF (none of which were drawn at such date). Subject to the terms of the revolving credit facility, the maturity date of all or a portion of the amounts outstanding under the 2017 facility will be due in full in January 2022. Amounts drawn under the revolving credit facility may be used for general corporate and working capital purposes of the Millicom Group, including financing acquisitions, licenses, capital expenditure, and payment of dividends to the extent permitted under the revolving credit facility agreement. Interest on amounts drawn under the revolving credit facility is payable at LIBOR or EURIBOR, as applicable, plus an initial margin of 1.5%, provided that the margin may be reduced or increased if the net leverage ratio of MIC S.A. in respect of the last twelve month (as measured on a quarterly basis) is within a specified range. MIC S.A. term loan facility In July 2016, MIC S.A. entered into a US$50 million term loan facility agreement, for which half will be repaid in 2018 and half in 2019. The facility bears variable interest rate at six-month LIBOR + 2.25% per annum. El Salvador On 15 April 2016, Telemovil El Salvador, S.A. de C.V. entered into a Senior Unsecured Term Loan Facility of US$50 million maturing in April 2021 and bearing variable interest at LIBOR + 3.0% per annum. This Facility is guaranteed by the Company. On 6 June 2016, Telemovil El Salvador, S.A. de C.V. entered into a US$30 million Credit Facility for general corporate purposes maturing in June 2021 and bearing variable interest rate at LIBOR + 2.25% per annum. The Facility is repayable over different yearly installments until maturity and is guaranteed by the Company. Millicom Annual Report 2016 171 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2016 – continued C.3.2. Bank financing – continued Right of set-off and derecognition Financial assets and financial liabilities are offset and the net amount is reported in the consolidated statement of financial position if there is a currently enforceable legal right to offset the recognized amounts and an intention to settle on a net basis, or to realize the assets and settle the liabilities simultaneously. A financial asset (or a part of a financial asset or part of a group of similar financial assets) is derecognized when: • Rights to receive cash flows from the asset have expired; or • Rights to receive cash flows from the asset or obligations to pay the received cash flows in full without material delay have been transferred to a third party under a “pass-through” arrangement; and the Group has either transferred substantially all the risks and rewards of the asset or the control of the asset. When rights to receive cash flows from an asset have been transferred or a pass-through arrangement concluded, an evaluation is made if and to what extent the risks and rewards of ownership have been retained. When the Group has neither transferred nor retained substantially all of the risks and rewards of the asset, nor transferred control of the asset, the asset is recognized to the extent of the Group’s continuing involvement in the asset. In that case, the Group also recognizes an associated liability. The transferred asset and the associated liability are measured on a basis that reflects the rights and obligations that the Group has retained. Continuing involvement that takes the form of a guarantee over the transferred asset is measured at the lower of the original carrying amount of the asset and the maximum amount of consideration that the Group could be required to repay (see USD 6.875% Senior Notes in note C.3.1.). A financial liability is derecognized when the obligation under the liability is discharged or canceled, or expires. When an existing financial liability is replaced by another from the same lender on substantially different terms, or the terms of an existing liability are substantially modified, such an exchange or modification is treated as the derecognition of the original liability and the recognition of a new liability. The difference in the respective carrying amounts is recognized in the income statement. In addition to the bank financing arrangements described above, as of 31 December 2016, a Millicom subsidiary has an agreement with a bank whereby the bank provided loans amounting to EUR134 million (2015: EUR134 million) to the Millicom subsidiary with a maturity date in 2020. Simultaneously Millicom deposited the same amount with the bank and entered into total return swaps. The total return swaps remove any risk of the banks connected to the loans, and as such Millicom has derecognized both its deposit asset and the loan liabilities from the date of the total return swap (see D.1.2.). C.3.3. Finance leases Millicom’s finance leases mainly consist of long-term lease of tower space from tower companies or competitors on which Millicom locates its network equipment. Finance lease liabilities Leases which transfer substantially all risks and benefits incidental to ownership of the leased item to the lessee are capitalized at the inception of the lease. The amount capitalized is the lower of the fair value of the asset or the present value of the minimum lease payments. Lease payments are allocated between finance charges (interest) and reduction of the lease liability so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability. Finance charges are recorded as interest expenses in the income statement. Finance lease liabilities (US$ millions) Country Maturity 2016 2015 Lease of tower space Tanzania 2023 78 90 Lease of tower space Colombia Movil 2023 77 66 Lease of tower space DRC 2017/2023 — 40 Lease of tower space Ghana 2023/2025 14 21 Lease of poles Colombia (UNE) 2029 83 67 Other finance lease liabilities various various 43 52 Total finance lease liabilities 295 336 Millicom Annual Report 2016 172 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2016 – continued C.3.4. Guarantees and pledged assets Guarantees Financial guarantee contracts issued by the Group are those contracts that require a payment to be made to reimburse the holder for a loss it incurs because the specified debtor fails to make payment when due in accordance with the terms of a debt instrument. Financial guarantee contracts are recognized initially as a liability at fair value, adjusted for transaction costs that are directly attributable to the issuance of the guarantee. Subsequently, the liability is measured at the higher of the best estimate of the expenditure required to settle the present obligation at the reporting date and the amount recognized, less cumulative amortization. Liabilities to which guarantees are related are recorded in the consolidated statement of financial position under the caption “Debt and financing” and liabilities covered by supplier guarantees are recorded under the caption “Trade payables” or “Debt and financing”, depending on the underlying terms and conditions. Maturity of guarantees At 31 December 2016 At 31 December 2015 (US$ millions) Outstanding Maximum Outstanding Maximum Term exposure(i) exposure(ii) exposure(i) exposure(ii) 0–1 year 38 38 100 100 1–3 years 348 348 143 143 3–5 years 250 250 393 393 More than 5 years 4 4 7 7 Total guarantees 640 640 643 643 (i) The outstanding exposure represents the carrying amount of the related liability at 31 December. (ii) The maximum exposure represents the total amount of the Guarantee at 31 December. Pledged assets The Group’s share of total debt and financing secured by either pledged assets, pledged deposits issued to cover letters of credit, or guarantees issued by the Company at 31 December 2016 was US$643 million (2015: US$646 million), out of this, assets pledged by the Group over this debt and financing at the same date amounted to US$3 million (2015: US$3 million). The remainder represented primarily guarantees issued by Millicom S.A. to guarantee financings raised by other Group operating entities. C.3.5. Covenants Millicom’s financing facilities are subject to a number of covenants including net leverage ratio, debt service coverage ratios, debt to earnings ratios, and cash levels. In addition, certain of its financings contain restrictions on sale of businesses or significant assets within the businesses. At 31 December 2016 there were no breaches in financial covenants. C.4. Cash and deposits C.4.1. Cash and cash equivalents (US$ millions) 2016 2015 Cash and cash equivalents in USD 411 467 Cash and cash equivalents in other currencies 235 302 Total cash and cash equivalents 646 769 Cash and cash equivalents include cash in hand, deposits held at call with banks and other short-term highly liquid investments with original maturities of three months or less. Cash deposits with bank with maturities of more than three months that generally earn interest at market rates are classified as time deposits. C.4.2. Restricted cash (US$ millions) 2016 2015 Mobile Financial Services 136 134 Others 9 8 Restricted cash 145 142 Cash held with banks related to Mobile Financial Services which is restricted in use due to local regulations is denoted as restricted cash. Millicom Annual Report 2016 173 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2016 – continued C.4.3. Pledged deposits Pledged deposits represent contracted cash deposits with banks that are held as security for debts at corporate or operational entity level. Millicom is unable to access these funds until either the relevant debt is repaid or alternative security is arranged with the lender. At 31 December 2016, there were no non-current pledged deposits (2015: US$nil). At 31 December 2016, current pledged deposits amounted to US$3 million (2015: US$3 million). C.5. Net debt Net debt (US$ millions) 2016 2015 Total debt and financing 3,901 4,010 Less: Cash and cash equivalents (646) (769) Restricted cash (145) (142) Pledged deposits (3) (3) Time deposits related to bank borrowings (2) (2) Net debt at the end of the year 3,105 3,094 Add (less) derivatives related to debt (SEK currency swap) 84 65 Net debt including derivatives related to debt 3,189 3,159 C.6. Financial instruments Financial instruments at fair value through profit or loss Financial instruments at fair value through profit or loss are financial instruments held for trading. Their fair value is determined by reference to quoted market prices on the statement of financial position date. Where there is no active market, fair value is determined using valuation techniques. Such techniques include using recent arm’s-length market transactions, reference to the current market value of a substantially similar instrument, discounted cash flow analysis and option pricing models. A financial instrument is classified in this category if acquired principally for the purpose of selling in the short term. Derivatives are also categorized as held for trading unless they are designated as hedges. Assets in this category are classified as current assets. Financial instruments that contain obligations to purchase own equity instruments Contracts that contain obligations for the Company to purchase its own equity instruments for cash or other financial assets are initially recorded as financial liabilities, based on the present value of the redemption amounts with a corresponding reserve in equity. Subsequently, the carrying value of the liability is remeasured at the present value of the redemption amount with changes in carrying value recorded in other non-operating (expenses) income, net. If the contracts expire without delivery, the carrying amounts of the financial liabilities are reclassified to equity. The put options that Millicom granted to its local shareholders in Honduras and Guatemala represented obligations to purchase the shares held by the local partners (see note C.6.3.). Financial instruments that contain call options over non-controlling interests Contracts over non-controlling interests that require gross cash settlement are also classified as equity instruments. Such call options are initially recognized at fair value and not subsequently remeasured. If a call option is exercised, this initial fair value is included as part of the cost of the acquisition of the non-controlling interest. If an unexercised call option expires or otherwise lapses, the fair value of the call option remains within equity. Call option contracts over non-controlling interests that require net cash settlement or provide a choice of settlement are classified as financial assets. Contracts over non-controlling interests that require physical settlement of a variable number of own shares for a variable price are classified as financial assets and changes in the fair value are reported in the income statement. If such a call option is exercised, the fair value of the option at that date is included as part of the cost of the acquisition of the non-controlling interest. If an unexercised call option expires or otherwise lapses, its carrying amount is expensed in the income statement. The call options that Millicom obtained from its local shareholders in Honduras and Guatemala provided Millicom with control over the operations in those countries until 31 December 2015 and were classified as financial assets. Changes in the fair value of the call options were recorded in other non-operating (expenses) income, net. Millicom Annual Report 2016 174 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2016 – continued C.6. Financial instruments – continued Derivative financial instruments and hedging activities Derivatives are initially recognized at fair value on the date a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently re-measured at fair value at each subsequent closing date. The method of recognizing the resulting gain or loss depends on whether the derivative is designated as a hedging instrument and, if so, the nature of the item being hedged. The Group designates certain derivatives as either: a) Hedges of the fair value of recognized assets or liabilities or a firm commitment (fair value hedge); or b) Hedges of a particular risk associated with a recognized asset or liability or a highly probable forecast transaction (cash flow hedge). For transactions designated and qualifying for hedge accounting, at the inception of the transaction, the Group documents the relationship between hedging instruments and hedged items, as well as its risk management objectives and strategy for undertaking various hedging transactions. This is done in reference to the Group Financial Risk Management Policy as last updated and approved by the Audit Committee of October 2016. The Group also documents its assessment, both at hedge inception and on an ongoing basis (quarterly), of whether the derivatives that are used in hedging transactions are highly effective in offsetting changes in fair values or cash flows of hedged items. The full fair value of a hedging instrument is classified as a non-current asset or liability when the period to maturity of the hedged item is more than 12 months and as a current asset or liability when the remaining maturity of the hedged item is less than 12 months. Trading derivatives are classified as a current asset or liability when the remaining period to maturity of the hedged item is less than 12 months. The change in fair value of hedging instruments that are designed and qualify as fair value hedges is recognized in the income statement as finance costs or income. The change in fair value of the hedged item attributable to the risk hedged is recorded as part of the carrying value of the hedged item and is also recognized in the income statement as finance costs or income. The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges is recognized in other comprehensive income. Gains or loss relating to any ineffective portion is recognized immediately in the income statement within “Other non-operating (expenses) income, net”. Amounts accumulated in equity are reclassified to the income statement in the periods when the hedged item affects profit or loss. When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, or when a hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, any cumulative gain or loss existing in equity at that time is recycled to the income statement within “Other non-operating (expenses) income, net”. When a forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss that was reported in equity is immediately transferred to the income statement within “Other non-operating (expenses) income, net”. C.6.1. Fair Value Measurement Hierarchy Millicom uses the following fair value measurement hierarchy: Level 1 – Quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities. Level 2 – Inputs other than quoted prices included within level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly (that is, as prices) or indirectly (that is, derived from prices). Level 3 – Inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data (that is, unobservable inputs). The Group enters into derivative financial instruments with various counterparties, principally financial institutions with investment grade ratings. Interest rate swaps, foreign exchange forward contracts are valued using valuation techniques, which employ the use of markets observable data. The most frequently applied valuation techniques include forward pricing and swap models using present value calculations. The models incorporate various inputs including the credit quality of counterparties, foreign exchange spot and forward rates, yield curves of the respective currencies, interest rate curves and forward curves. Derivative financial instruments are measured with reference to Level 2, except for the call option in Honduras and in Guatemala (see note C.6.3.), which were measured with reference to Level 3. The fair value of the call option was determined by using an option pricing model (Monte Carlo simulation using the Longstaff Schwartz algorithm). The Honduras and Guatemala put option liabilities were carried at the present value of the redemption amount and were therefore excluded from the fair value hierarchy. No other financial instruments are measured at fair value. Millicom Annual Report 2016 175 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2016 – continued C.6.2. Fair value of financial instruments The fair value of Millicom’s financial instruments are shown at amounts at which the instruments could be exchanged in a current transaction between willing parties, other than in a forced or liquidation sale. The fair value of all financial assets and all financial liabilities except debt and financing approximate their carrying value largely due to the short-term maturities of these instruments. The fair values of all debt and financing have been estimated by the Group, based on discounted future cash flows at market interest rates. Fair values of financial instruments at 31 December Carrying value Fair value(i) (US$ millions)(ii) Note 2016 2015 2016 2015 Financial Assets Pledged deposits C.4.3. — — — — Derivative financial instruments 32 26 32 26 Other non-current assets 72 75 72 75 Trade receivables, net 387 398 387 398 Amounts due from non-controlling interests, associates and joint venture partners 17 16 17 16 Prepayments and accrued income 171 193 171 193 Supplier advances for capital expenditures 23 39 23 39 Other current assets 110 109 110 109 Restricted cash 145 142 145 142 Cash and cash equivalents 646 769 646 769 Total financial assets 1,603 1,765 1,603 1,765 Current 1,499 1,665 1,499 1,665 Non-current 104 101 104 101 Financial Liabilities Debt and financing(ii) C.3. 3,901 4,010 4,234 3,872 Trade payables 297 334 297 334 Payables and accruals for capital expenditure 326 285 326 285 Derivative financial instruments 84 65 84 65 Amounts due to non-controlling interests, associates and joint venture partners 386 644 386 644 Accrued interest and other expenses 376 425 376 425 Other liabilities 400 352 400 352 Total financial liabilities 5,770 6,115 6,103 5,977 Current 1,531 2,125 1,531 2,125 Non-current 4,239 3,990 4,572 3,852 (i) F air values are measured with reference to Level 1 (for listed bonds) or 2, except for call option asset which was measured during the year 2015 with reference to Level 3. (ii) Comparative information has been restated after finalization of Zantel’s purchase accounting (note A.1.2.). C.6.3. Call and put options Honduras Call Option For Celtel, the call option price was a fixed multiple of the EBITDA of Celtel. On 31 December 2015, Celtel’s call option to acquire the remaining 33% of the Honduras business has expired unexercised and Celtel has been deconsolidated as a result. The fair value of the call option was immaterial. For further details, see note A.2.2. Honduras Put Option For Celtel the liability was measured at the present value of the redemption price of the put option. The redemption price of the put option was based on a multiple of the EBITDA of Celtel. The multiple is based on a change of control transaction multiple of Millicom. Management estimated the change of control transaction multiple of Millicom from a trading multiple of Millicom adding a control premium (based upon comparable transactions from the industry). During the year 2015, Millicom recorded an income of US$117 million under “other non-operating (expenses) income, net” due to the decrease in value of the put option liability. At the same time as the unconditional call option, the conditional put option Millicom provided to the other shareholders also lapsed. This resulted in the carrying value of the put option liability being reclassified within equity for a total amount of US$456 million on 31 December 2015. Millicom Annual Report 2016 176 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2016 – continued C.6.3. Call and put options – continued Guatemala call option For Comcel, the call option price was a fixed multiple of the EBITDA of Comcel, with a gold price index in the event that the gold price increased by more than 40%. Millicom’s two year unconditional call option to acquire the remaining 45% of the Guatemalan business expired on 31 December 2015. Millicom’s call option has therefore been derecognized at 31 December 2015. As a result, a total loss of US$71 million was recorded in 2015 under “other non-operating (expenses) income, net”. For further details, see note A.2.2. Guatemala put option For Comcel the liability was measured at the present value of the redemption price of the put option. The redemption price of the put option was based on a multiple of the EBITDA of Comcel. The multiple was based on a change of control transaction multiple of Millicom. Management estimate the change of control transaction multiple of Millicom from a trading multiple of Millicom and add a control premium (based upon comparable transactions). During the year 2015, Millicom recorded an income of US$8 million under “other non-operating (expenses) income, net” due to the decrease in value of the put option liability. At the same time as the unconditional call option, the conditional put option Millicom provided to the other shareholders also lapsed. This resulted in the carrying value of the put option liability being reclassified within equity for a total amount of US$1,679 million on 31 December 2015. D. Financial risk management Exposure to interest rate, foreign currency, non-repatriation, liquidity, capital management and credit risks arise in the normal course of Millicom’s business. Each year Group Treasury revisits and presents to the Audit committee updated Treasury and Financial Risks Management policies. The Group analyzes each of these financial risks individually as well as on an interconnected basis and defines and implements strategies to manage the economic impact on the Group’s performance in line with its Financial Risk Management policy. These policies were last reviewed in September and October 2016. As part of the annual review of the above mentioned risks, the Group agrees to a strategy over the use of derivatives and natural hedging instruments ranging from raising debt in local currency (where the Company targets to reach 40% of debt in local currency over the medium term) to maintain a 70/30% mix between fix and floating rate debt or agreeing to cover up to six months forward of operating costs and capex denominated in non-functional currencies through a rolling and layering strategy. Millicom’s risk management strategies may include the use of derivatives to the extent a market would exist in the jurisdictions where the Group operates. Millicom’s policy prohibits the use of such derivatives in the context of speculative trading. Accounting policies for derivatives is further detailed in note C.6. On 31 December 2016, fair value of derivatives held by the Group can be summarized as follows:. Derivatives (US$ millions) 2016 2015 Cash flow hedge derivatives (84) (65) Derivatives held for trading (on swaps on Euro denominated debt) 32 26 Net derivative asset (liability) (52) (39) D.1. Interest rate risk Debt and financing issued at floating interest rates expose the Group to cash flow interest rate risk. Debt and financing issued at fixed rates expose the Group to fair value interest rate risk. The Group’s exposure to risk of changes in market interest rates relate to both of the above. To manage this risk, the Group’s policy is to maintain a combination of fixed and floating rate debt with target for the debt to be distributed between fixed (up to 70%) and variable (up to 30%) rates. The Group actively monitors borrowings against this target. The target mix between fixed and floating rate debt is reviewed periodically. The purpose of Millicom’s policy is to achieve an optimal balance between cost of funding and volatility of financial results, while taking into account market conditions as well as our overall business strategy. At 31 December 2016, approximately 70% of the Group’s borrowings are at a fixed rate of interest or for which variable rates have been swapped for fixed rates with interest rate swaps (2015: 68%). Millicom Annual Report 2016 177 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2016 – continued D.1.1. Fixed and floating rate debt Financing at 31 December 2016 Amounts due within: (US$ millions) 1 year 1–2 years 2–3 years 3–4 years 4–5 years >5 years Total Fixed rate financing 41 85 314 435 720 1,141 2,736 Weighted average nominal interest rate 7.52% 7.54% 5.41% 5.62% 7.11% 8.51% 7.28% Floating rate financing 39 168 204 213 130 411 1,165 Weighted average nominal interest rate 4.20% 9.46% 3.63% 2.89% 1.21% 3.86% 3.16% Total 80 252 518 649 850 1,552 3,901 Weighted average nominal interest rate 5.90% 8.81% 4.71% 4.72% 6.20% 7.28% 6.05% Financing at 31 December 2015 Amounts due within: (US$ millions) 1 year 1–2 years 2–3 years 3–4 years 4–5 years >5 years Total Fixed rate financing 48 75 65 92 581 1,876 2,737 Weighted average nominal interest rate 9.17% 8.36% 9.56% 8.78% 5.44% 7.58% 7.26% Floating rate financing 173 245 99 170 229 357 1,273 Weighted average nominal interest rate 4.97% 3.33% 4.16% 3.95% 5.66% 12.06% 5.08% Total 221 320 164 262 810 2,233 4,010 Weighted average nominal interest rate 5.87% 4.51% 6.30% 5.64% 5.50% 7.93% 7.01% A 100 basis point fall or rise in market interest rates for all currencies in which the Group had borrowings at 31 December 2016 would increase or reduce profit before tax from continuing operations for the year by approximately US$12 million (2015: US$13 million). D.1.2. Interest rate swap contracts From time to time, Millicom enters into currency and interest rate swap contracts to manage its exposure to fluctuations in interest rates and currency fluctuations in accordance with its risk management policies. Details of these arrangements are provided below. Interest rate and currency swaps on SEK denominated debt As described in note C.3.1., the SEK Bonds have been fully redeemed during 2016. As a consequence, the Group has modified and extended the related interest rate and currency swaps until at least April 2018 and attached them to the new SEK Bond. The swaps are accounted for as a cash flow hedge as the timing and amounts of the cash flows under the swap agreements match the cash flows under the new SEK bond. The hedging relationship is highly effective and related fluctuations are recorded through other comprehensive income. At 31 December 2016, the fair values of the swaps amount to a liability of US$84 million (31 December 2015: a liability of US$65 million). These instruments are measured with reference to Level 2. Interest rate and currency swaps on Euro denominated debt In June 2013, Millicom entered into interest rate and currency swaps whereby Millicom will sell Euro’s and receive USD to hedge against exchange rate fluctuations on a seven-year Euro (EUR) 134 million principal and related interest financing of its operation in Senegal. At 31 December 2016, the fair value of the swap amounts to an asset of US$32 million (2015: an asset of US$26 million). This instrument is measured with reference to Level 2. In July 2013, Millicom entered into interest rate and currency swaps whereby Millicom will sell Euro’s and receive USD to hedge against exchange rate fluctuations on a seven-year EUR41.5 million principal and related interest financing of its operation in Chad. In March 2015, the financing facility was repaid and the swap contracts terminated. A gain on the swap including termination of US$4 million was recorded in other non-operating income (expenses), net. These financings are connected to the downstreaming of a portion of Millicom’s 4.75% bond (see note C.3.1.). These hedges do not qualify for hedge accounting. Fluctuations in the value of those instruments are recorded through profit and loss. US$6 million of income was recorded from the fluctuations in fair value in 2016 (2015: US$32 million) in “other non-operating income (expenses), net”. Millicom Annual Report 2016 178 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2016 – continued D.2. Foreign currency risks The Group is exposed to foreign exchange risk arising from various currency exposures in the countries in which it operates. Foreign exchange risk arises from future commercial transactions, recognized assets and liabilities and net investments in foreign operations. Millicom seeks to reduce its foreign currency exposure through a policy of matching, as far as possible, assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies, or entering into agreements that limit the risk of exposure to currency fluctuations against the US dollar reporting currency. In some cases, Millicom may also borrow in US dollars where it is either commercially more advantageous for joint ventures and subsidiaries to incur debt obligations in US dollars or where US dollar denominated borrowing is the only funding source available to a joint venture or subsidiary. In these circumstances, Millicom accepts the remaining currency risk associated with financing its joint ventures and subsidiaries, principally because of the relatively high cost of forward cover, when available, in the currencies in which the Group operates. D.2.1. Debt denominated in US$ and other currencies Debt denomination at 31 December (US$ millions) 2016 2015 Debt denominated in US$ 2,266 2,564 Debt denominated in currencies of the following countries: Colombia 841 660 Chad 69 94 Tanzania 93 94 Bolivia 288 236 Ghana 13 21 Paraguay 103 92 Luxembourg (SEK denominated) 217 234 Other 11 15 Total debt denominated in other currencies 1,635 1,446 Total debt 3,901 4,010 At 31 December 2016, if the US dollar had weakened/strengthened by 10% against the other functional currencies of our operations and all other variables held constant, then profit before tax from continuing operations would have increased/decreased by US$51 million and US$(63) million respectively (2015: US$29 million and US$35 million respectively). This increase/decrease in profit before tax would have mainly been as a result of the conversion of the US$-denominated debts in our operations with functional currencies other than the US dollar. D.2.2. Foreign currency swaps See note D.1.2. Interest rate swaps. D.3. Non-repatriation risk Most of Millicom’s operating subsidiaries generate most of the revenue of the Group and in the currency of the countries in which they operate. Millicom is therefore dependent on the ability of its subsidiaries and joint venture operations to transfer funds to the Company. Although foreign exchange controls exist in some of the countries in which Millicom Group companies operate, none of these controls currently significantly restrict the ability of these operations to pay interest, dividends, technical service fees, royalties or repay loans by exporting cash, instruments of credit or securities in foreign currencies. However, existing foreign exchange controls may be strengthened in countries where the Group operates, or foreign exchange controls may be introduced in countries where the Group operates that do not currently impose such restrictions. If such events were to occur, the Company’s ability to receive funds from the operations could be subsequently restricted, which would impact the Company’s ability to make payments on its interest and loans and, or pay dividends to its shareholders. As a policy, all operations which do not face restrictions to deposit funds offshore and in hard currencies should do so for the surplus cash generated on a weekly basis. The Company and its subsidiaries make use of notional and physical cash pooling arrangements in hard currencies to the extent permitted. In addition, in some countries it may be difficult to convert large amounts of local currency into foreign currency because of limited foreign exchange markets. The practical effects of this may be time delays in accumulating significant amounts of foreign currency and exchange risk, which could have an adverse effect on the Group. This is a relatively rare case for the countries in which the Group operates. Lastly, repatriation most often gives raise to taxation, which is evidenced in the amount of taxes paid by the Group relative to the Corporate Income Tax reported in its statement of income. D.4. Credit and counterparty risk Financial instruments that subject the Group to credit risk include cash and cash equivalents, pledged deposits, letters of credit, trade receivables, amounts due from joint venture partners and associates, supplier advances and other current assets and derivatives. Counterparties to agreements relating to the Group’s cash and cash equivalents, pledged deposits and letters of credit are significant financial institutions with investment grade ratings. Management does not believe there are significant risks of non-performance by these counterparties and maintain a diversified portfolio of banking partners. Allocation of deposits across banks are managed such that the Group’s counterparty risk with a given bank stays within limits which have been set, based on each bank’s credit rating. Millicom Annual Report 2016 179 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2016 – continued D.4. Credit and counterparty risk – continued A large portion of revenue of the Group comprises prepaid products and services. For postpaid customers, the Group follows risk control procedures to assess the credit quality of the customer, taking into account its financial position, past experience and other factors. Accounts receivable also comprise balances due from other telecom operators. Credit risk of other telecom operators is limited due to the regulatory nature of the telecom industry, in which licenses are normally only issued to credit worthy companies. The Group maintains a provision for impairment of trade receivables based upon expected collectability. As the Group has a large number of internationally dispersed customers, there is generally no significant concentration of credit risk with respect to trade receivables, except for certain B2B customers (mainly governments). See Note F.1. D.5. Liquidity risk Liquidity risk is the risk that an entity will encounter difficulty in meeting obligations associated with financial liabilities. The Group has significant indebtedness but also has significant cash balances. Millicom evaluates its ability to meet its obligations on an ongoing basis using a recurring liquidity planning tool. This tool considers the operating net cash flows generated from its operations and the future cash needs for borrowing, interest payments, dividend payments and capital and operating expenditures required in maintaining and developing its operating businesses. The Group manages its liquidity risk through use of bank overdrafts, bank loans, bonds, vendor financing, Export Credit Agencies and Development Finance Institutions (“DFI”) loans, and finance leases. Millicom believes that there is sufficient liquidity available in the markets to meet ongoing liquidity needs. Additionally, Millicom is able to arrange offshore funding through the use of Export Credit Agency guarantees and DFIs (IFC and FMO), which have been established specifically to finance development in the Group’s markets. Millicom has a diversified financing portfolio with commercial banks representing about 24% of its gross financing (2015: 24%), bonds 66% (2015: 64%), Development Finance Institutions 2% (2015: 3%), finance leases 8% (2015: 8%), and no vendor financing (2015 1%). Maturity profile of net financial liabilities at 31 December 2016 (US$ millions) Less than 1 year 1 to 5 years > 5 years Total Total debt and financing (80) (2,269) (1,552) (3,901) Cash and cash equivalents 646 — — 646 Restricted cash 145 — — 145 Pledged deposits (related to bank borrowings) 3 — — 3 Time deposits 2 — — 2 Derivative financial instruments (SEK currency swap) — (84) — (84) Net cash (debt) including derivatives related to debt 716 (2,353) (1,552) (3,189) Future interest commitments (283) (916) (71) (1,270) Trade payables (excluding accruals) (443) — — (443) Other financial liabilities (including accruals) (1,174) — — (1,174) Trade receivables 387 — — 387 Other financial assets 131 71 — 202 Net financial liabilities (666) (3,199) (1,622) (5,487) Maturity profile of net financial liabilities at 31 December 2015 (US$ millions) Less than 1 year 1 to 5 years > 5 years Total Total debt and financing (221) (1,555) (2,233) (4,010) Cash and cash equivalents 769 — — 769 Restricted cash 142 — — 142 Pledged deposits (related to bank borrowings) 3 — — 3 Time deposits 2 — — 2 Derivative financial instruments (SEK currency swap) — (65) — (65) Net cash (debt) including derivatives related to debt 695 (1,620) (2,233) (3,159) Future interest commitments (257) (881) (83) (1,221) Trade payables (excluding accruals) (420) — — (420) Other financial liabilities (including accruals) (1,693) — — (1,693) Trade receivables 398 — — 398 Other financial assets 130 75 — 205 Net financial liabilities (1,147) (2,426) (2,316) (5,889) Millicom Annual Report 2016 180 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2016 – continued D.6. Capital management The primary objective of the Group’s capital management is to ensure a strong credit rating and solid capital ratios in order to support its business and maximize shareholder value. The Group manages its capital structure with reference to economic conditions and imposed restrictions such as debt covenants and local regulations. To maintain or adjust its capital structure, the Group may make dividend payments to shareholders, return capital to shareholders through share repurchases or issue new shares. At 31 December 2016, Millicom is rated at one notch below investment grade by the independent rating agencies Moody’s (Ba1 negative) and Fitch (BB+ stable). The Group primarily monitors capital using net debt to EBITDA. The Group reviews its gearing ratio (net debt divided by total capital plus net debt) periodically. Net debt includes interest bearing loans and borrowings, less cash and cash equivalents (included restricted cash) and pledged and time deposits related to bank borrowings. Capital represents equity attributable to the equity holders of the parent. Net debt to EBITDA (US$ millions) Note 2016 2015 Net debt(i) C.5. 4,181 4,295 EBITDA (i) B.3. 2,172 2,188 Net debt to EBITDA 1.93 1.96 Gearing ratio (US$ millions) Note 2016 2015 Net debt(i) C.5. 4,181 4,295 Equity C.1. 3,167 3,477 Net debt and equity 7,348 7,772 Gearing ratio 57% 55% (i) Including net debt and EBITDA of Guatemala and Honduras operations for US$1,076 million (2015: US$1,201 million) and US$858 million (2015: US$934 million), respectively. E. Long-term assets E.1. Intangible sssets Millicom’s intangible assets mainly consist of goodwill arising from acquisitions, customer lists acquired through acquisitions, licenses and rights to operate and use spectrum. E.1.1. Accounting for intangible assets Intangible assets acquired in business acquisitions are initially measured at fair value at the date of acquisition, and those which are acquired separately are measured at cost. Internally generated intangible assets, excluding capitalized development costs, are not capitalized but expensed to the income statement in the expense category consistent with the function of the intangible assets. Subsequently intangible assets are carried at cost, less any accumulated amortization and any accumulated impairment losses. Intangible assets with finite useful lives are amortized over their estimated useful economic lives using the straight-line method and assessed for impairment whenever there is an indication that the intangible asset may be impaired. The amortization period and the amortization method for intangible assets with finite useful lives are reviewed at least at each financial year-end. Changes in expected useful lives or the expected beneficial use of the assets are accounted for by changing the amortization period or method, as appropriate, and treated as changes in accounting estimates. Amortization expense on intangible assets with finite lives is recognized in the consolidated income statement in the expense category consistent with the function of the intangible assets. Goodwill Goodwill represents the excess of cost of an acquisition over the Group’s share in the fair value of identifiable assets less liabilities and contingent liabilities of the acquired subsidiary, at the date of the acquisition. If the fair value or the cost of the acquisition can only be determined provisionally, then goodwill is initially accounted for using provisional values. Within 12 months of the acquisition date any adjustments to the provisional values are recognized. This is done when the fair values and the cost of the acquisition have been finally determined. Adjustments to provisional fair values are made as if the adjusted fair values had been recognized from the acquisition date. Goodwill on acquisition of subsidiaries is included in “intangible assets, net”. Goodwill on acquisition of joint ventures or associates is included in “investments in joint ventures and associates”. Following initial recognition, goodwill is measured at cost, less any accumulated impairment losses. Gains or losses on the disposal of an entity include the carrying amount of goodwill relating to the entity sold. Where goodwill forms part of a cash-generating unit (or group of cash-generating units) and part of the operation within that unit is disposed of, the goodwill associated with the operation disposed of is included in the carrying amount of the operation when determining the gain or loss on disposal. Goodwill disposed of in this manner is measured based on the relative values of the operation disposed and the portion of the cash-generating unit retained. Millicom Annual Report 2016 181 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2016 – continued E.1.1. Accounting for intangible assets – continued Licenses Licenses are recorded at either historical cost or, if acquired in a business combination, at fair value at the date of acquisition. Cost includes cost of acquisition and other costs directly related to acquisition and retention of licenses over the license period. These costs may include estimates related to fulfillment of terms and conditions related to the licenses such as service or coverage obligations, and may include up-front and deferred payments. Licenses have a finite useful life and are carried at cost less accumulated amortization and any accumulated impairment losses. Amortization is calculated using the straight-line method to allocate the cost of the licenses over their estimated useful lives. The terms of licenses, which have been awarded for various periods, are subject to periodic review for, amongst other things, rate setting, frequency allocation and technical standards. Licenses are initially measured at cost and are amortized from the date the network is available for use on a straight-line basis over the license period. Licenses held, subject to certain conditions, are usually renewable and generally non-exclusive. When estimating useful lives of licenses, renewal periods are included only if there is evidence to support renewal by the Group without significant cost. Trademarks and customer lists Trademarks and customer bases are recognized as intangible assets only when acquired or gained in a business combination. Their cost represents fair value at the date of acquisition. Trademarks and customer bases have indefinite or finite useful lives. Indefinite useful life trademarks are tested for impairment annually. Finite useful life trademarks are carried at cost, less accumulated amortization. Amortization is calculated using the straight-line method to allocate the cost of the trademarks and customer bases over their estimated useful lives. The estimated useful lives for trademarks and customer bases are based on specific characteristics of the market in which they exist. Trademarks and customer bases are included in “Intangible assets, net”. Estimated useful lives are: Estimated useful lives Years Trademarks 1 to 15 Customer lists 4 to 9 Programming and content rights Programming and content master rights which are purchased or acquired in business combinations which meet certain criteria are recorded at cost as intangible assets. The rights must be exclusive, related to specific assets which are sufficiently developed, and probable to bring future economic benefits and have validity for more than one year. Cost includes consideration paid or payable and other costs directly related to the acquisition of the rights, and are recognized at the earlier of payment or commencement of the broadcasting period to which the rights relate. Programming and content rights capitalized as intangible assets have a finite useful life and are carried at cost, less accumulated amortization and any accumulated impairment losses. Amortization is calculated using the straight-line method to allocate the cost of the rights over their estimated useful lives. Non-exclusive and programming and content rights for periods less than one year are expensed over the period of the rights. Indefeasible rights of use There is no universally-accepted definition of an indefeasible rights of use (“IRU”). These agreements come in many forms. However, the key characteristics of a typical arrangement include: • The right to use specified network infrastructure or capacity; • For a specified term (often the majority of the useful life of the relevant assets); • Legal title is not transferred; • A number of associated service agreements including Operations and Maintenance (“O&M”) and co-location agreements. These are typically for the same term as the IRU; and • Any payments are usually made in advance. IRUs are accounted for either as a lease, or service contract based on the substance of the underlying agreement. Millicom Annual Report 2016 182 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2016 – continued E.1.1. Accounting for intangible assets – continued IRU arrangements will qualify as a lease if, and when: • The purchaser has an exclusive right for a specified period and has the ability to resell (or sub-let) the capacity; and • The capacity is physically limited and defined; and • The purchaser bears all costs related to the capacity (directly or not) including costs of operation, administration and maintenance; and • The purchaser bears the risk of obsolescence during the contract term. If all of these criteria are not met, the IRU is treated as a service contract. If an IRU is determined to be a lease, the following indicators need to be present in order for the capitalization of an IRU as a finance lease to be considered: • The Group will be consuming the major part of the useful economic life of the asset (generally considered to be 75% of the total remaining useful economic life of the asset). The Group assumes that the useful economic life of a new fiber cable is 15 years; • Substantially all of the risks and rewards of ownership are transferred to the Group (e.g. Millicom can sublease excess capacity on the cables to other operators; Millicom is responsible for maintaining the cables during the contract period); • Neither party has the right to terminate the contract early (other than for “force majeure”); • The contract price is not subject to renegotiation or change (other than for inflationary increases); • The minimum contractual payments are for substantially all of the fair value of the asset (generally considered to be greater or equal to 90% of the fair value of the leased asset); • The Group can determine the fair value of the leased asset; • The Group has physical access rights to the cable. Otherwise the IRU will be considered as an operating lease. A finance lease of an IRU of network infrastructure (cables or fiber) is accounted for as a tangible asset. A finance lease of a capacity IRU (wavelength) is accounted for as an intangible asset. Estimated useful lives of finance leases of IRU’s of capacity are between 12 and 15 years, or shorter if the estimated useful life of the underlying cable is shorter. The costs of an IRU recognized as operating lease is recognized as prepayment and amortized in the income statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term. The costs of an IRU recognized as service contract is recognized as prepayment and amortized in the income statement as incurred over the duration of the contract. E.1.2. Impairment of non-financial assets At each reporting date Millicom assesses whether there is an indication that a non-financial asset may be impaired. If any such indication exists, or when annual impairment testing for a non-financial asset is required, an estimate of the asset’s recoverable amount is made. The recoverable amount is determined based on the higher of its fair value less cost to sell, and its value in use, for individual assets, unless the asset does not generate cash inflows that are largely independent of those from other assets or groups of assets. Where the carrying amount of an asset exceeds its recoverable amount, the asset is considered impaired and is written down to its recoverable amount. Where no comparable market information is available, the fair value, less cost to sell, is determined based on the estimated future cash flows discounted to their present value using a discount rate that reflects current market conditions for the time value of money and risks specific to the asset. The foregoing analysis also evaluates the appropriateness of the expected useful lives of the assets. Impairment losses of continuing operations are recognized in the consolidated income statement in expense categories consistent with the function of the impaired asset. At each reporting date an assessment is made as to whether there is any indication that previously recognized impairment losses may no longer exist or may have decreased. If such indication exists, the recoverable amount is estimated. Other than for goodwill, a previously recognized impairment loss is reversed if there has been a change in the estimate used to determine the asset’s recoverable amount since the last impairment loss was recognized. If so, the carrying amount of the asset is increased to its recoverable amount. The increased amount cannot exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined, net of depreciation, had no impairment loss been recognized for the asset in prior years. Such reversal is recognized in profit or loss. After such a reversal, the depreciation charge is adjusted in future periods to allocate the asset’s revised carrying amount, less any residual value, on a systematic basis over its remaining useful life. Millicom Annual Report 2016 183 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2016 – continued E.1.3. Movements in intangible assets Movements in intangible assets in 2016 Broadcast and (US$ millions) Goodwill Licenses Customer lists IRUs other rights Other(i) Total Opening balance, net 621 387 57 119 32 213 1,429 Additions — 89 — 4 — 98 192 Amortization charge — (64) (26) (13) (3) (80) (186) Impairment — — — (2) — (1) (3) Disposals, net — — — — — (6) (6) Transfers — (6) — 1 (29) (4) (38) Transfers to/from assets held for sale (see note E.3.) (11) (23) — — — (7) (42) Exchange rate movements 5 (3) 1 4 — 5 13 Closing balance, net At 31 December 2016 615 380 32 114 — 219 1,359 Cost or valuation 615 702 210 177 11 579 2,293 Accumulated amortization and impairment — (321) (178) (64) (11) (360) (934) Net 615 380 32 114 — 219 1,359 Movements in intangible assets in 2015 Broadcast and (US$ millions) Goodwill Licenses Customer lists IRUs other rights Other(i) Total Opening balance, net 3,076 774 486 167 30 982 5,515 Change in the Group (see note A.1.2.)(ii) 17 40 22 9 — 12 100 Additions — 47 — 31 — 116 194 Effect of deconsolidation (iii) (2,358) (345) (343) (13) — (754) (3,813) Amortization charge — (53) (99) (17) (5) (72) (246) Impairment — (18) — — — (1) (19) Disposals, net — — — (2) — — (2) Transfers — (3) 2 (6) 7 — — Exchange rate movement (114) (55) (11) (50) — (70) (300) Closing balance, net 621 387 57 119 32 213 1,429 At 31 December 2015 Cost or valuation 621 639 210 182 51 495 2,198 Accumulated amortization and impairment — (252) (153) (63) (19) (282) (769) Net 621 387 57 119 32 213 1,429 (i) T  he caption “Other” includes intangible assets identified in business combinations (including trademarks – see note E.1.1.). (ii) Comparative information has been restated compared to the information presented in the 2015 consolidated financial statement due to the finalization of Zantel’s purchase accounting (note A.1.2.). (iii) See note A.2.2. Millicom Annual Report 2016 184 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2016 – continued E.1.4. Cash used for the purchase of intangible assets Cash used for intangible asset additions (US$ millions) 2016 2015 Additions 192 194 Change in accruals and payables for intangibles (49) (8) Cash used from continuing operations for additions 143 186 E.1.5. Goodwill Allocation of Goodwill to CGUs, net of exchange rate movements and after impairment (US$ millions) Note 2016 2015 El Salvador 194 194 Costa Rica 126 129 Paraguay 53 53 Colombia 198 189 DRC — 11 Tanzania (Zantel) 11 11 Other 33 34 Total 615 621 E.1.6. Impairment testing of goodwill Goodwill from CGUs is tested for impairment at least each year and more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may be impaired. Impairment losses on goodwill are not reversed. Goodwill arising on business combinations is allocated to each of the Group’s cash generating units (CGU’s) or groups of cash-generating units that are expected to benefit from the synergies of the combination, irrespective of whether other assets or liabilities of the Group are assigned to those units or groups of units. Each unit or group of units to which the goodwill is allocated: • Represents the lowest level within the Group at which the goodwill is monitored for internal management purposes; and • Is not larger than an operating segment. Impairment is determined by assessing the recoverable amount (value in use) and, if appropriate, the fair value less costs to sell of the CGU (or group of CGUs), to which the goodwill relates. Where the recoverable amount and fair value less costs to sell of the CGU (or group of CGUs) is less than the carrying amount, an impairment loss is recognized for the lower amount. Impairment testing at 31 December 2016 Goodwill was tested for impairment by assessing the recoverable amount (first using a value in use model) against the carrying amount for CGU based on discounted cash flows. The cash flow projections used (adjusted operating profit margins, income tax, working capital, capital expenditure and license renewal cost) are extracted from financial budgets approved by management and the Board covering a period of five years or more. This planning horizon reflects industry practice in the countries where the Group operates and stage of development or redevelopment of the business in those countries. Cash flows beyond this period are extrapolated using a perpetual growth rate of 2.0%–2.5% (2015: 2.0%–2.5%). When value in use model resulted in the carrying values of the CGUs being higher than their recoverable amount, management has determined the fair value less cost of disposal (“FVLCD”) of the CGUs. Fair value less cost of disposal has been determined either by using recent offers received from third parties (Level 1) or by using discounted cash flow projections (still based on the five-year plans) and applying a multiple of EBITDA on the terminal year of the five-year plan to derive the terminal value for the CGU (ranging between 3.0x to 4.0x) (Level 3). For the year ended 31 December 2016, and as a result of the annual impairment testing on goodwill, management concluded that none of the Group CGUs should be impaired, but the impairment test performed for the Group CGU in Senegal shows limited headroom. As a matter of fact, a decrease in the EBITDA multiple used by 1.0pt would make the carrying value of the Group CGU equal its recoverable amount (determined by using FVLCD). For the year ended 31 December 2015, the Senegal cash generating unit (CGU), part of Africa segment, had been impaired. Hence, in accordance with IAS 36, an impairment loss of US$54 million had been allocated to reduce the carrying amount of the other assets of our operations in Senegal (the goodwill allocated to Senegal was already fully impaired in 2013) pro rata on the basis of the carrying amount of each asset to the extent the carrying amount of each asset was not below the highest of its fair value less costs to sell, its value in use and zero. Management had determined that the impairment loss be allocated to property, plant and equipment and intangible assets for US$36 million and US$18 million, respectively. The impairment had been classified within the caption “other operating expenses, net”. At 31 December 2015, the carrying value of the CGU corresponded to its fair value less costs of disposal (Level 3). Millicom Annual Report 2016 185 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2016 – continued E.1.6. Impairment testing of goodwill – continued Sensitivity analysis was performed on key assumptions within the impairment tests. The sensitivity analysis determined that sufficient margin exists from realistic changes to the assumptions that would not impact the overall results of the testing except for Senegal (see above). Discount rates used in determining recoverable amount Discount rate after tax (%) (US$ millions) 2016 2015 Bolivia 9.4 10.8 Chad 16.5 17.3 Colombia 8.6 9.5 Costa Rica 10.9 11.1 DRC (See note E.3.) na 17.6 El Salvador 11.9 11.4 Ghana 17.7 16.9 Guatemala (See note A.2.2.) na 10.2 Honduras (See note A.2.2.) na 11.0 Paraguay 9.3 10.1 Rwanda 14.6 13.1 Senegal 14.0 13.9 Tanzania 14.3 13.8 E.2. Property, plant and equipment E.2.1. Accounting for property, plant and equipment Items of property, plant and equipment are stated at either historical cost, or the lower of fair value and present value of the future minimum lease payments for assets under finance leases, less accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment. Historical cost includes expenditure that is directly attributable to acquisition of items. The carrying amount of replaced parts is derecognized. Depreciation is calculated using the straight-line method over the shorter of the estimated useful life of the asset and the remaining life of the license associated with the assets, unless the renewal of the license is contractually possible. Estimated useful lives Years Buildings 40 years or lease period, if shorter Networks (including civil works) 5 to 15 years or lease period, if shorter Other 2 to 7 The carrying values of property, plant and equipment are reviewed for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. The assets’ residual value and useful life is reviewed, and adjusted if appropriate, at each statement of financial position date. An asset’s carrying amount is written down immediately to its recoverable amount if its carrying amount is greater than its estimated recoverable amount. Construction in progress consists of the cost of assets, labor and other direct costs associated with property, plant and equipment being constructed by the Group, or purchased assets which have yet to be deployed. When the assets become operational, the related costs are transferred from construction in progress to the appropriate asset category and depreciation commences. Subsequent costs are included in the asset’s carrying amount or recognized as a separate asset, as appropriate, when it is probable that future economic benefits associated with the item will flow to the Group and the cost of the item can be measured reliably. Ongoing routine repairs and maintenance are charged to the income statement in the financial period in which they are incurred. Costs of major inspections and overhauls are added to the carrying value of property, plant and equipment and the carrying amount of previous major inspections and overhauls is derecognized. Equipment installed on customer premises which is not sold to customers is capitalized and amortized over the customer contract period. A liability for the present value of the cost to remove an asset on both owned and leased sites (for example cell towers) and for assets installed on customer premises (for example set-top boxes), is recognized when a present obligation for the removal exists. The corresponding cost of the obligation is included in the cost of the asset and depreciated over the useful life of the asset, or lease period if shorter. Borrowing costs that are directly attributable to the acquisition or construction of a qualifying asset are capitalized as part of the cost of that asset when it is probable that such costs will contribute to future economic benefits for the Group and the costs can be measured reliably. Millicom Annual Report 2016 186 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2016 – continued E.2.2. Movements in tangible assets Movements in tangible assets in 2016 Network Land and Construction (US$ millions) equipment(iii) buildings in progress Other(i) Total Opening balance, net 2,476 149 431 142 3,198 Additions 45 — 632 5 683 Impairments (2) — (2) (4) (7) Disposals, net (11) — (3) — (14) Depreciation charge (677) (12) — (58) (747) Asset retirement obligations 15 2 — — 17 Transfers 775 9 (814) 62 31 Transfers from/(to) assets held for sale (see note E.3.) (123) (5) (2) (9) (139) Exchange rate movements 27 3 9 (4) 36 Closing balance, net 2,525 147 250 135 3,057 Cost or valuation 6,138 185 250 474 7,047 Accumulated amortization and impairment (3,613) (38) — (339) (3,990) Net at 31 December 2016 2,525 147 250 135 3,057 Movements in tangible assets in 2015 Network Land and Construction (US$ millions) equipment(iii) buildings in progress Other(i) Total Opening balance, net 3,749 193 490 319 4,751 Change in the Group (see note A.1.2.)(ii) 22 6 4 — 32 Additions 103 4 962 34 1,103 Effect of deconsolidation (iv) (850) (18) (122) (40) (1,030) Impairments (33) — (5) (1) (39) Disposals, net (9) (2) — (4) (15) Depreciation charge (952) (15) — (108) (1,075) Asset retirement obligations 6 3 — — 9 Transfers 916 12 (956) 28 — Transfers from/(to) assets held for sale 9 — — — 9 Exchange rate movements (485) (34) 58 (86) (547) Closing balance, net 2,476 149 431 142 3,198 Cost or valuation 5,692 182 431 448 6,753 Accumulated amortization and impairment (3,216) (33) — (306) (3,555) Net at 31 December 2015 2,476 149 431 142 3,198 (i) “Other” mainly includes office equipment and motor vehicles. (ii) Comparative information has been restated compared to the information presented in the 2015 consolidated financial statement due to the finalization of Zantel’s purchase accounting (note A.1.2.). (iii) The net carrying amount of network equipment under finance leases at 31 December 2016 was US$245 million (2015: US$258 million). (iv) See note A.2.2. Borrowing costs capitalized for the years ended December 31, 2016 and 2015 were not significant. Millicom Annual Report 2016 187 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2016 – continued E.2.3. Cash used for the purchase of tangible assets Cash used for property, plant and equipment additions (US$ millions) 2016 2015 Additions 683 1,103 Change in advances to suppliers (16) 8 Change in accruals and payables for property, plant and equipment 51 (62) Vendor financing and finance leases 1 (30) Cash used from continuing operations for additions 719 1,019 E.3. Assets held for sale If Millicom decides to sell subsidiaries, investments in joint ventures or associates, or specific non-current assets in its businesses, these items qualify as assets held for sale if certain conditions are met. E.3.1. Classification of assets held for sale Non-current assets (or disposal groups) are classified as assets held for sale and stated at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell if their carrying amount is expected to be recovered principally through sale, not through continuing use. Liabilities of disposal groups are classified as “Liabilities directly associated with assets held for sale”. E.3.2. Millicom’s assets held for sale (US$ millions) 2016 2015 Tower assets held for sale 5 — 4G Spectrum (UNE) held for sale — 12 Liabilities directly associated with assets held for sale — — Net assets held for sale 5 12 Oasis S.A. On 8 February 2016, Millicom announced that it had signed an agreement for the sale of its businesses in the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) to Orange S.A. for a total cash consideration of US$160 million adjusted for working capital movements and including US$10 million of cash hold-back subject to the completion of the disposal of the Mobile Financial Services business (DRC Mobile Cash). The transaction was completed in respect of the mobile business (Oasis S.A.) on 20 April 2016 and includes certain indemnity and warranty clauses as well as other expenses directly linked with the disposal, which have been provided for as of 31 December 2016. See note A 4.1. The separate disposal of DRC Mobile Cash was completed in September 2016. As a result, US$10 million of the cash hold-back was received in October 2016. In accordance with IFRS 5, the Group’s businesses in DRC have been classified as assets held for sale as from 8 February 2016 and their results were classified as discontinued operations. The following assets and liabilities were held for sale in relation to Oasis S.A. as at the date of disposal: Assets and liabilities reclassified as held for sale – Oasis S.A. (US$ millions) 20 April 2016 Intangible assets, net. 58 Property, plant and equipment, net 133 Other non-current assets 11 Current assets 42 Cash and cash equivalents 33 Total assets of disposal group held for sale 277 Non-current financial liabilities 44 Current liabilities 84 Total liabilities of disposal group held for sale 128 Net assets 149 Millicom Annual Report 2016 188 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2016 – continued E.3.2. Millicom’s assets held for sale – continued Comparative figures of the income statement have been represented accordingly. Financial information relating to the discontinued operations for the year ended 31 December 2016 and 2015 is set out below. The sale of Oasis S.A. generated a cash inflow of US$147 million, net of US$33 million of cash disposed. Results from discontinued operations 31 December 31 December (US$ millions) 2016 2015 Revenue 40 158 Cost of sales (15) (60) Operating expenses (20) (108) Depreciation and amortization (3) (40) Other operating profit income expense, net — (2) Operating profit (loss) 2 (53) Interest income (expense), net (2) (17) Profit (loss) before taxes 1 (70) Credit (charge) for taxes, net 6 (13) Results from discontinued operations 6 (83) Gross gain on disposal of discontinued operations 32 — Other expenses linked to the disposal of discontinued operations (19) — Net gain (loss) on disposal of discontinued operations 13 — Net profit (loss) from discontinued operations 19 (83) Cash flows from discontinued operations 31 December 31 December (US$ millions) 2016 2015 Cash used in operating activities, net (3) (20) Cash used in investing activities, net (1) (26) Cash provided by financing activities, net — 49 Net cash inflows/(outflows) (4) 3 Mobile Cash DRC The sales agreement also included the separate disposal of Mobile Cash DRC, which was completed late 2016. The cash inflow and the loss from the disposal of this operation was not material for the Group. 4G Spectrum (UNE) During 2016, the 4G spectrum in Colombia has been reclassified from “Assets held for sale” to intangible assets as the value of the spectrum will not be recovered through sale, but through use. A depreciation catch-up has been recorded for US$11 million. In October 2016, the date on which UNE stopped rendering 4G services, the 4G spectrum was fully depreciated. Millicom Annual Report 2016 189 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2016 – continued F. Other assets and liabilities F.1. Trade receivables Millicom’s trade receivables mainly comprise interconnect receivables from other operators, postpaid mobile and residential cable subscribers as well as B2B customers. The nominal value of receivables adjusted for impairment approximates the fair value of trade receivables. (US$ millions) 2016 2015 Gross trade receivables 593 599 Less: provisions for impairment of receivables (206) (201) Trade receivables, net 387 398 Neither past Ageing of trade receivables due nor Past due (net of impairments) (US$ millions) impaired < 30 days 30–90 days >90 days Total 2016: Telecom operators 26 14 11 1 52 Own customers 121 48 77 6 252 Others 57 19 5 2 83 Total 204 81 93 9 387 2015: Telecom operators 32 20 14 1 67 Own customers 153 54 48 — 255 Others 52 14 6 4 76 Total 237 88 68 5 398 Trade receivables are initially recognized at fair value and subsequently measured at amortized cost using the effective interest method, less provision for impairment. A provision for impairment is recorded when there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect amounts due according to the original terms of receivables. Significant financial difficulties of the debtor, probability that the debtor will enter bankruptcy or financial reorganization, and default or delinquency in payments are indicators of impairment. The amount of the provision is the difference between the asset’s carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows, discounted at the effective interest rate. The provision is recognized in the consolidated income statement within “Cost of sales”. Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market. They are included in current assets, except for those maturing more than 12 months after the end of the reporting period. These are classified within non-current assets. Loans and receivables are carried at amortized cost using the effective interest method. Gains and losses are recognized in the income statement when the loans and receivables are derecognized or impaired, as well as through the amortization process. F.2. Inventories Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realizable value. Cost is determined using the first-in, first-out (FIFO) method. Net realizable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, less applicable variable selling expenses. Inventories (US$ millions) 2016 2015 Telephone and equipment 32 59 SIM cards 7 7 IRUs 6 — Other 17 14 Inventory at 31 December 2016 62 80 Millicom Annual Report 2016 190 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2016 – continued F.3. Trade payables Trade payables are initially recognized at fair value and subsequently measured at amortized cost using the effective interest method where the effect of the passage of time is material. From time to time, the Group enters into agreements to extend payment terms with various suppliers, and with factoring companies when such payments are discounted. The corresponding amount pending payment as of 31 December 2016, is recognized in “Trade payables” for an amount of US$20 million. F.4. Current and non-current provisions and other liabilities Provisions are recognized when the Group has a present obligation (legal or constructive) as a result of a past event, if it is probable that an outflow of resources embodying economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation. Where the Group expects some or all of a provision to be reimbursed, for example under an insurance contract, the reimbursement is recognized as a separate asset, but only when the reimbursement is virtually certain. The expense relating to any provision is presented in the income statement net of any reimbursement. If the effect of the time value of money is material, provisions are discounted using a current pre-tax rate that reflects, where appropriate, risks specific to the liability. Where discounting is used, increases in the provision due to the passage of time are recognized as interest expenses. F.4.1. Current provisions and other liabilities Current (US$ millions) 2016 2015 Deferred revenue 112 121 Customer deposits 9 8 Current legal provisions 12 20 Tax payables 44 60 Customer and MFS distributor cash balances 139 130 Witholding tax on payments to third parties 17 — Other provisions 10 18 Other current liabilities 134 130 Total 477 487 F.4.2. Non-current provisions and other liabilities Non-current (US$ millions) 2016 2015 Non-current legal provisions 28 24 Long-term portion of asset retirement obligations 78 66 Long-term portion of deferred income on tower sale and leasebacks 18 24 Long-term employment obligations 76 56 Other non-current liabilities 85 73 Total 285 243 Millicom Annual Report 2016 191 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2016 – continued G. Additional disclosure items G.1 Fees to auditors (US$ millions) 2016 2015 Audit fees 4.3 4.7 Audit related fees 0.3 0.3 Tax fees 0.2 0.3 Other fees 1.8 0.9 Total 6.6 6.2 G.2. Capital and operational commitments Millicom has a number of capital and operational commitments to suppliers and service providers in the normal course of its business. These commitments are mainly contracts for acquiring network and other equipment, and leases for towers and other operational equipment. G.2.1. Capital commitments At 31 December 2016 the Company and its subsidiaries and joint ventures had fixed commitments to purchase network equipment, land and buildings, other fixed assets and intangible assets of US$179 million of which US$162 million are due within one year (December 31, 2015: US$216 million of which US$203 million are due within one year). Out of these commitments, respectively US$17 million and US$14 million related to Millicom’s share in joint ventures. (December 31, 2015: US$33 million of which US$27 million are due within one year). G.2.2 Lease commitments Leases The determination of whether an arrangement is, or contains, a lease is based on the substance of the arrangement and involves an assessment of whether the fulfillment of the arrangement is dependent on the use of a specific asset or assets and whether or not the arrangement conveys a right to use the asset. The sale and leaseback of towers and related site operating leases and service contracts are accounted for in accordance with the underlying characteristics of the assets, and the terms and conditions of the lease agreements. On transfer to the tower companies, the portion of the towers leased back are accounted for as operating leases or finance leases according to the criteria set out above. The portion of towers being leased back represents the dedicated part of each tower on which Millicom’s equipment is located and was derived from the average technical capacity of the towers. Rights to use the land on which the towers are located are accounted for as operating leases, and costs of services for the towers are recorded as operating expenses. Operating leases Operating leases are all other leases that are not finance leases. Operating lease payments are recognized as expenses in the consolidated income statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term. Operating leases mainly comprise land in which cell towers are located (including those related to towers sold and leased back) and buildings. Total operating lease expense from continuing operations for the year ended 31 December 2016 was US$135 million (2015: US$191 million – see note B.2.). Annual operating lease commitments (US$ millions) from continuing operations 2016 (i) 2015 Within one year 131 111 Between one and five years 371 310 After five years 225 214 Total 727 635 (i) Joint ventures operating lease commitments amount to US$210 million (2015: US$219 million) and are excluded from the table above. Finance leases Finance leases, which transfer substantially all risks and benefits incidental to ownership of the leased item to the lessee, are capitalized at the inception of the lease at the fair value of the leased asset or, if lower, at the present value of the minimum lease payments. Lease payments are apportioned between finance charges and reduction of the lease liability so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability. Finance charges are charged directly against income. Where a finance lease results from a sale and leaseback transaction, any excess of sales proceeds over the carrying amount of the assets is deferred and amortized over the lease term. Capitalized leased assets are depreciated over the shorter of the estimated useful lives of the assets, or the lease term if there is no reasonable certainty that the Group will obtain ownership by the end of the lease term. Millicom Annual Report 2016 192 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2016 – continued G.2.2 Lease commitments – continued Finance leases mainly comprise lease of tower space in Ghana, Tanzania and Colombia (see note C.3.3.), lease of poles in Colombia and tower sharing in other countries. Other financial leases mainly consist of lease agreements relating to vehicles and IRUs. Annual minimum finance lease commitments (US$ millions) 2016 (i) 2015 Within one year 81 82 Between one and five years 330 346 After five years 353 416 Total 764 844 (i) Joint ventures finance lease commitments amount to US$nil (2015: nil) and are excluded from the table above. The corresponding finance lease liabilities at 31 December 2016 were US$295 million (2015: US$336 million). Interest expense on finance lease liabilities amounts to US$66 million for the year 2016 (2015: US$63 million). G.3. Contingent liabilities G.3.1. Litigation and legal risks The Company and its operations are contingently liable with respect to lawsuits and other legal risks that arise in the normal course of business. As of 31 December 2016, the total amount of claims and litigation risks against Millicom and its operations was US$406 million, of which US$3 million related to its share in joint ventures (31 December 2015: US$492 million, of which none related to its share in joint ventures). As at 31 December 2016, US$43 million, of which US$1 million related to its share in joint ventures (31 December 2015: US$42 million, of which none related to its share in joint ventures), has been provided for litigation and legal risks in the consolidated statement of financial position. While it is not possible to ascertain the ultimate legal and financial liability with respect to these claims and risks, the ultimate outcome is not anticipated to have a material effect on the Group’s financial position and operations. In June 2016, Millicom was served with claims by a third party seeking monetary damages in the amount of US$4.6 million and seeking to exert rights as a shareholder of Millicom Tanzania Ltd (Tigo Tanzania). In June 2015, Millicom identified that an incorrect filing related to Tigo Tanzania had been made in the commercial register, causing the register to incorrectly indicate that shares in the local subsidiary were owned by this third party. Millicom remains engaged in legal proceedings regarding this issue. Millicom believes that these claims are entirely without merit and, moreover, maintains that there is no valid basis whatsoever for any third party to claim any interest in Tigo Tanzania or be registered as one of its shareholders. Accordingly Millicom continues to fully consolidate Tigo Tanzania at 100%. The following specific risks are excluded from the US$406 million above: Colombia A claim filed with the Civil Chamber of Bogota in Colombia against all mobile operators in Colombia in 2013, including our subsidiary in Colombia, by a group of approximately 20 individuals of approximately US$794 million. The claimants allege damages and losses suffered from third parties through illegal use of cellular phones in extortion attempts against the claimants. The case has been inactive, with the exception of a mandatory settlement conference held among the parties under the court’s supervision, which did not result in a settlement agreement. This claim is considered by management to be entirely spurious and without foundation or substance. As a result, no provision has been made for this claim. Other At 31 December 2016 Millicom has various other less significant claims which are not disclosed separately in these consolidated financial statements. Potential improper payments on behalf of the Guatemala joint venture On 21 October 2015, Millicom reported to law enforcement authorities in the United States and Sweden potential improper payments made on behalf of the Company’s joint venture in Guatemala. On 4 May 2016, Millicom received notification from the Swedish Public Prosecutor that its preliminary investigation has been discontinued on jurisdictional grounds. Millicom continues to cooperate with law enforcement authorities in the United States. As at 31 December 2016, the matter is still under investigation and Management has not been able to assess the potential impact on these consolidated financial statements of any remedial actions that may need to be taken as a result of the investigations, or penalties that may be imposed by law enforcement authorities. Accordingly, no provision has been recorded as of 31 December 2016. Millicom Annual Report 2016 193 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2016 – continued G.3.2. Tax related risks and uncertain tax position The Group operates in developing countries where the tax systems, regulations and enforcement processes have varying stages of development creating uncertainty regarding application of tax law and interpretation of tax treatments. The Group is also subject to regular tax audits in the countries where it operates. When there is uncertainty over whether the taxation authority will accept a specific tax treatment under the local tax law, that tax treatment is therefore uncertain. The resolution of tax positions taken by the Group, through negotiations with relevant tax authorities or through litigation, can take several years to complete and, in some cases, it is difficult to predict the ultimate outcome. Therefore, judgment is required to determine provisions for taxes. In assessing whether and how an uncertain tax treatment affects the determination of taxable profit (tax loss), tax bases, unused tax losses, unused tax credits and tax rates, the Group assumes that a taxation authority with the right to examine amounts reported to it will examine those amounts and have full knowledge of all relevant information when making those examinations. The Group has a process in place to identify its uncertain tax positions. Management then considers whether or not it is probable that a taxation authority will accept an uncertain tax treatment. On that basis, the identified risks are split into three categories (i) remote risks (risk of outflow of tax payments are 0–20%), (ii) possible risks (risk of outflow of tax payments are 21% to 49%) and probable risks (risk of outflow is more than 50%). The process is repeated every quarter by the Group. If the Group concludes that it is probable or certain that the taxation authority will accept the tax treatment, the risks are categorized either as possible or remote, and it determines the taxable profit (tax loss), tax bases, unused tax losses, unused tax credits or tax rates consistently with the tax treatment used or planned to be used in its income tax filings. The risks considered as possible are not provisioned but disclosed as tax contingencies in the Group consolidated financial statements while remote risks are neither provisioned nor disclosed. If the Group concludes that it is probable that the taxation authority will not accept the Group’s interpretation of the uncertain tax treatment, the risks are categorized as probable, and it reflects the effect of uncertainty in determining the related taxable profit (tax loss), tax bases, unused tax losses, unused tax credits or tax rates by generally using the most likely amount method – the single most likely amount in a range of possible outcomes. If an uncertain tax treatment affects both deferred tax and current tax, the Group makes consistent estimates and judgments for both. For example, an uncertain tax treatment may affect both taxable profits used to determine the current tax and tax bases used to determine deferred tax. If facts and circumstances change, the Group reassesses the judgments and estimates regarding the uncertain tax position taken. At 31 December 2016 potential tax risks estimated by the Group amount to US$311 million of which provisions of US$65 million have been recorded representing the probable amount of eventual claims and required payments related to those risks (2015: US$369 million of which provisions of US$86 million were recorded). Out of these potential claims and provisions, respectively US$96 million (2015: US$76 million) and US$9 million (2015: US$9 million) related to Millicom’s share in joint ventures. G.4. Non-cash investing and financing activities Non-cash investing and financing activities from continuing operations (US$ millions) Note 2016 2015 Investing activities Acquisition of property, plant and equipment E.2.2. 35 (54) Asset retirement obligations E.2.3. (17) (9) Financing activities Vendor financing and finance leases G.2.2. — 30 Share based compensation B.4.1. 14 19 G.5. Related party balances and transactions The Company conducts transactions with certain related parties on normal commercial terms and conditions. The Group’s significant related parties are: Kinnevik AB (“Kinnevik”) and subsidiaries, Millicom’s principal shareholder. Tower companies in Ghana, DRC, Tanzania (until October 2015), and in Helios Towers Africa Ltd (since October 2015), in which Millicom holds a direct or indirect equity interest (see note A.3.2.). EPM and subsidiaries, the non-controlling shareholder in our Colombian operations (see note A.1.2.). Miffin Associates Corp and subsidiaries, our joint venture partner in Guatemala. Millicom Annual Report 2016 194 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2016 – continued G.5. Related party balances and transactions – continued Kinnevik Millicom’s principal shareholder is Kinnevik. Kinnevik is a Swedish holding company with interests in the telecommunications, media, publishing, paper and financial services industries. At 31 December 2015, Kinnevik owned approximately 38% of Millicom (2015: 38%). During 2016 and 2015, Kinnevik did not purchase any Millicom shares. There are no significant loans made by Millicom to or for the benefit of Kinnevik or Kinnevik controlled entities. During 2015 and 2014 the Company purchased services from Kinnevik subsidiaries including fraud detection, procurement and professional services. Helios Towers Millicom acquired 40% shareholdings in Helios Towers Ghana, Helios Towers Tanzania and Helios Towers DRC as part of the compensation agreed for the sale and lease back of its towers in those countries. Millicom sold its tower assets and leased back a portion of space on the towers in each of these countries and contracted for related operation and management services. As described in note A.3.2., as a result of a reorganization, Millicom has exchanged shares which were previously held in HTA’s tower companies in Ghana, DRC and Tanzania, into shares in HTA’s parent company and retains a significant influence on HTA. The Group has future lease commitments in respect of the tower companies (see note G.2.2.). Miffin Associates Corp (“Miffin”) The Group purchases and sells products and services from Miffin Group. Transactions with Miffin represent recurring commercial operations such as purchase of handsets, and sale of airtime. Expenses from transactions with related parties (US$ millions) 2016 2015 Purchases of goods and services from Kinnevik 7 3 Purchases of goods and services from Miffin 167 148 Purchases of goods and services from EPM 22 17 Lease of towers and related services from Helios(i) 35 36 Other expenses 2 2 Total 233 206 Income and gains from transactions with related parties (US$ millions) 2016 2015 Sale of goods and services to EPM 18 19 Sale of goods and services to Miffin 261 253 Other revenue 10 4 Total 289 276 (i) Until acquisition/disposal date. As at 31 December the Company had the following balances with related parties: Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December US$ millions 2016 2015 Liabilities Payables to Guatemala(i) 245 335 Payables to Honduras(ii) 118 225 Finance lease liabilities to tower companies(iii) 85 122 Payables to EPM 3 66 Other accounts payable 20 18 Total 471 766 (i) Shareholder loans (ii) Amounts payable mainly consist in dividend advances. Dividend is expected to be declared in 2017. (iii) Disclosed under “Debt and other financing” in the statement of financial position. Millicom Annual Report 2016 195 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2016 – continued G.5. Related party balances and transactions – continued Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December US$ millions 2016 2015 Assets Receivables from EPM 4 5 Loan to Helios Towers Tanzania 10 7 Other accounts receivable 3 4 Total 17 16 H. IPO – Millicom’s operations in Tanzania In June 2016, an amendment to the Electronic and Postal Communications Act (“EPOCA”) in the Finance Act 2016 requires all licensed telecom operators to sell 25% of the authorized share capital in a public offering on the Dar Es Salaam Stock Exchange by 31 December 2016. As of 31 December 2016, no licensed operator had completed a public offering, including Millicom’s license holding subsidiaries, Millicom Tanzania, Zantel and Telesis. On 13 January 2017, Millicom Tanzania, Zantel and Telesis each received from the Tanzanian Communications Regulatory Authority (“TCRA”) a notice of material breach of the license giving 30 days to comply. Millicom has signaled its intention for its subsidiaries to comply with the law and list its businesses but will not be in a position to complete public offerings by such time or in the near future. Accordingly, Millicom’s businesses in Tanzania may face sanctions from the regulator or other government bodies, which could include financial penalties, or even suspension or cancellation of its license. Management is currently not able to assess the financial impact on its consolidated financial statements (although the Company deems the suspension or cancellation of the license is unlikely) and therefore no provision has been recorded as of 31 December 2016. I. Subsequent events Dividend On 7 February 2017 Millicom’s Board decided to propose to the Annual General Meeting of the Shareholders a dividend distribution of US$2.64 per share to be paid out of Millicom profits for the year ended 31 December 2016 subject to the Board’s approval of the 2016 Consolidated Financial Statements of the Group. TV Cable Parana On 6 January 2017, after obtaining the necessary regulatory approvals, Tigo Paraguay completed the acquisition of TV Cable Parana for a total consideration of US$19 million. Tigo Senegal and HTA We have agreed to sell our business in Senegal to Wari Group, subject to regulatory approvals. The transaction represents an enterprise value for Tigo Senegal of US$129 million. We have also initiated a process to sell our 22% stake in Helios Towers Africa. Millicom Annual Report 2016 196 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Additional information Alternative Performance Measures (‘APMs’) In the front section of the Group’s Annual Report, APMs are used to provide readers with additional financial information that is regularly reviewed by management and used to make decisions about operating matters. These measures are usually used for internal performance reporting and in defining director and management remuneration. They are useful in connection with discussion with the investment analyst community. However, this additional information presented is not uniformly defined by all companies including those in the Group’s industry. Accordingly, it may not be comparable with similarly titled measures and disclosures by other companies. Additionally, certain information presented is derived from amounts calculated in accordance with IFRS but is not itself an expressly permitted GAAP measure. Such measures should not be viewed in isolation or as an alternative to the equivalent IFRS measure. Definitions, use and reconciliations to the closest IFRS measures are presented in the table below and on the following pages. APMs Descriptions Management reporting The financial information presented in the front section of this Annual Report is with Guatemala (55% owned) numbers and Honduras (66.7% owned) as if fully consolidated, while the Group equity accounts those operations in the IFRS consolidated financial statements. See next pages for reconciliation with IFRS numbers. Service, mobile data and • Service revenue is Group revenue related to the provision of ongoing services such as monthly subscription cable revenue fees, airtime and data usage fees, interconnection fees, roaming fees, mobile finance service commissions and fees from other telecommunications services such as data services, short message services and other value added services excluding telephone and equipment sales; • Mobile data revenue is Group revenue related to the provision of data for smartphone users. Mobile data revenue is included in Service revenue; • Cable revenue is Group revenue related to the provision of cable services such as broadband internet and TV. Cable revenue is included in Service revenue. Organic growth Organic growth represents year-on year-growth in local currency (includes regulatory changes) and constant perimeter. See next pages for reconciliation with reported numbers. Operating profit Operating profit is profit before taxes before results from associates, other non-operating expenses (such as foreign exchange losses and changes in fair value of derivatives) and net financial expenses. EBITDA EBITDA is operating profit excluding impairment losses, depreciation and amortization and gains/losses on the disposal of fixed assets. Adjusted EBITDA Adjusted EBITDA is EBITDA excluding one-off items such as restructuring charges, provisions for litigations, tax provisions or settlements being made relating to prior periods and other exceptional items that have materially impacted trading results that we do not expect to be recurring. Adjusted net profit Adjusted net profit is net profit adjusted for non-operating items such as foreign exchange gains/losses, changes in fair value of derivatives, early redemption premium for debts and other financing, dilution gains and impairments on investments in associates and similar items classified under ‘other non-operating income (expenses)’ as well as excluding results from discontinued operations. Adjusted EPS Adjusted EPS is computed based on adjusted net profit divided by the number of shares outstanding. Return on Invested Return on Invested Capital is used to assess the Group’s efficiency at allocating the capital under its control to Capital profitable investments. Net debt Net debt is Gross debt (including finance leases) less cash, restricted cash and pledged deposits. Capex measures • Capex is balance sheet capital expenditure excluding spectrum and license costs. • Cash Capex represents the cash spent in relation to capital expenditure, excluding spectrum and licenses. Cash flow measures • Operating cash flow is EBITDA less capex (excluding spectrum and license costs); • Operating Free Cash Flow is operating cash flow less change in working capital and other non-cash items and taxes paid; • Equity Free Cash Flow is operating cash flow less taxes paid, interest paid (net) and advances for dividends to non-controlling interests. These measures allow us and third parties to evaluate our liquidity and the cash generated by our operations. Millicom Annual Report 2016 197 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Additional information – continued Reconciliation with Guatemala and Honduras as if fully consolidated vs. IFRS (unaudited) As previously noted, the table reconciles the Management reporting numbers which include Guatemala and Honduras on a 100% consolidation basis with the IFRS numbers which account for these businesses as joint ventures using the equity method. Consolidated statement of income Year ended Year ended 31 December 2016 31 December 2016 Management reporting Guatemala JV IFRS US$ millions (Unaudited) and Honduras adjustment (Audited) Revenue 6,249 (1,875) 4,374 Cost of sales (1,655) 376 (1,279) Gross profit 4,594 (1,498) 3,096 Operating expenses (2,422) 641 (1,781) EBITDA 2,172 (858) 1,314 EBITDA margin 34.76% 45.75% 30.04% Depreciation & amortization (1,368) 440 (928) Share of net profit in joint ventures — — 115 115 Other operating income (expenses), net (43) 24 (20) Operating profit 761 (394) 115 482 Net financial expenses (472) 100 (372) Other non-operating income (expenses), net (1) 11 10 Gains (losses) from associates (49) — (49) Profit before tax 239 (283) 115 71 Net tax credit (charge) (251) 72 (180) Profit (loss) for the year (13) (212) 115 (109) Profit (loss) from discontinued operations 19 — 19 Non-controlling interests (38) 96 58 Net profit (loss) for the year (32) (115) 115 (32) Consolidated statement of financial position 31 December 2016 31 December 2016 Management reporting IFRS IFRS US$ millions (Unaudited) adjustments (Audited) Assets Non-current assets Intangible assets, net 4,618 (3,259) 1,359 Property, plant and equipment, net 4,205 (1,148) 3,057 Investments in joint ventures — 2,945 2,945 Investments in associates 331 — 331 Deferred tax assets 175 (9) 166 Amount due from non-controlling interests, associates and joint ventures 1 (1) — Derivative financial instruments 32 — 32 Other non-current assets 74 (2) 72 Total non-current assets 9,434 (1,473) 7,961 Current assets Inventories, net 82 (20) 62 Trade receivables, net 481 (94) 387 Amounts due from non-controlling interests, associates and joint venture partners 269 (252) 17 Prepayments and accrued income 209 (39) 171 Current income tax assets 111 (10) 101 Supplier advances for capital expenditure 48 (25) 23 Other current assets 142 (33) 110 Restricted cash 156 (11) 145 Cash and cash equivalents 947 (301) 646 Total current assets 2,445 (784) 1,661 Assets held for sale 5 — 5 Total assets 11,884 (2,257) 9,627 Millicom Annual Report 2016 198 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Additional information – continued Consolidated statement of financial position – continued 31 December 2016 31 December Management 2016 reporting IFRS IFRS US$ millions (Unaudited) adjustments (Audited) Equity and liabilities Equity Share capital and premium 638 — 638 Treasury shares (123) — (123) Option reserves (749) 188 (562) Retained profits 3,243 4 3,247 Profit (loss) for the year attributable to equity holders (32) — (32) Equity attributable to owners of the Company 2,976 191 3,167 Non-controlling interests 1,095 (894) 201 Total equity 4,071 (703) 3,368 Liabilities Non-current liabilities Debt and financing 5,147 (1,327) 3,821 Derivative financial instruments 84 — 84 Amounts due to associates and joint venture partners 1 112 113 Provisions and other non-current liabilities 352 (65) 286 Deferred tax liabilities 159 (101) 57 Total non-current liabilities 5,742 (1,381) 4,361 Current liabilities Debt and financing 143 (63) 80 Payables and accruals for capital expenditure 416 (90) 326 Other trade payables 322 (24) 297 Amounts due to non-controlling interests, associates and joint ventures 2 271 273 Accrued interest and other expenses 532 (157) 376 Current income tax liabilities 79 (11) 68 Provisions and other current liabilities 577 (99) 477 Total current liabilities 2,070 (173) 1,898 Liabilities directly associated with assets held for sale — — — Total liabilities 7,812 (1,554) 6,258 Equity and liabilities 11,884 (2,257) 9,627 Consolidated statement of cash flows Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2016 IFRS 2016 US$ millions (Unaudited) adjustments IFRS (Audited) Cash flows from operating activities (including discontinued operations) Profit (loss) before taxes from continuing operations 239 (168) 71 Profit (loss) for the year from discontinued operations 13 — 13 Profit (loss) before taxes 251 (168) 83 Net cash provided by operating activities 1,476 (598) 878 Net cash used in investing activities (936) 385 (552) Net cash from (used by) financing activities (521) 80 (441) Exchange impact on cash and cash equivalents, net (8) — (8) Net (decrease) increase in cash and cash equivalents 10 (133) (123) Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year 937 (168) 769 Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year 947 (301) 646 Millicom Annual Report 2016 199 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Additional information – continued Organic growth adjustments Group revenue Q4 2016 Q4 2015 12M 2016 12M 2015 Prior period 1,636 1,821 6,572 6,251 Current period 1,594 1,636 6,249 6,572 Reported growth (2.6%) (10.2%) (4.9%) 5.1% Local currency growth (2.1%) 4.4% (0.4%) 7.3% Change in perimeter impact — 0.5% — 8.3% FX impact (0.4%) (15.1%) (4.5%) (10.5%) Group service revenue Q4 2016 Q4 2015 12M 2016 12M 2015 Prior period 1,505 1,647 6,056 5,775 Current period 1,484 1,505 5,855 6,056 Reported growth (1.4%) (8.6%) (3.3%) 4.9% Local currency growth (0.9%) 6.2% 1.2% 5.8% Change in perimeter impact — 0.5% — 9.0% FX impact (0.5%) (15.3%) (4.5%) (10.0%) Group EBITDA Q4 2016 Q4 2015 12M 2016 12M 2015 Prior period 549 603 2,227 2,109 Current period 566 549 2,225 2,227 Reported growth 3.1% (9.0%) (0.1%) 5.6% Local currency growth 1.4% 3.0% 4.3% 9.0% Change in perimeter impact — (0.5%) — 9.6% FX impact 1.7% (11.4%) (4.4%) (13.1%) Millicom Annual Report 2016 200 Millicom Designed by FleishmanHillard Fishburn For further information please contact: www.fhflondon.co.uk investors@millicom.com Cover and divider photography millicom.com Richard Davies
