Solar A/S CVR NO.: 15 90 84 16 2016 Communication on progress incl our compliance with sections 99a and 99b of the Danish Financial Statements Act 2 COP report 2016 Contents Using the power of business to A WORD FROM OUR CEO 3 improve the world OUR BUSINESS MODEL 4 CSR POLICY 5 ENVIRONMENT AND CLIMATE 7 Policies 7 Risks 7 KPIs 7 Actions and results 7 LABOUR 8 Policies 9 Risks 9 KPIs 9 Actions and results 9 HUMAN RIGHTS 10 Policies 10 Risks 10 KPIs 10 Actions and results 10 ANTI-CORRUPTION 11 Policies 11 Risks 11 KPIs 11 Actions and results 11 3 COP report 2016 A word from our CEO A word from our CEO In September 2015, the United Nations They say that if you want to go fast, go alone – but if you want to go far, go together. Solar’s payoff is stronger member states adopted 17 sustainable together, and our approach to CSR is based on that exact development goals. The goals aim to same principle. This means that our CSR initiatives highly involve dialogues and cooperation with our business end poverty, protect the planet, and partners. ensure prosperity for all with specific targets to be achieved over the next You can read much more about this and other CSR initiatives in this Communication on Progress and on 15 years. our website. https://www.solar.eu/our-company/corporate-socialIn Solar Group, we acknowledge and welcome these responsibility/ goals. And we understand that if we are to achieve these goals, we must all do our part. We fully acknowledge the fact that our success comes at a cost to the world around Anders Wilhjelm us in a number of ways. When we transport our goods CEO from A to B, we put strain on the environment. The goods we sell are manufactured by real people who need proper working conditions. We know that. Therefore, we in Solar have made a formal decision to conduct business ethically and to contribute to sustainable development. Our commitment to the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and AntiCorruption remains firm. This communication on progress also represents Solar Group’s compliance with sections 99a and 99b of the Danish Financial Statements Act. 4 COP report 2016 Our business model Our business model Solar Group is a leading European Our business model sourcing and services company headquartered in Denmark. We work with our customers: • to bundle their spend and improve their sourcing Our core business is product sourcing, value-adding • t o create the best offer and to proactively develop alternatives services and optimisation of our customers’ businesses. • t o optimise their productivity, optimise transportation costs and minimise required inventory Our customer base is composed of both contractors, • to improve their employees’ skills and efficiency mainly electrical and plumbing, and a broad range of industrial customers. Being a sourcing and services company, we focus on each individual customer. We strive to always understand our customers’ unique and genuine needs in order to provide relevant, personal and value-adding services, making our customers win. Product sourcing The customers Optimisation of the customers’ Value-adding businesses services 5 COP report 2016 CSR policy CSR policy Our CSR policy forms the framework for the way we work with CSR in Solar Group The policy was approved by our CSR steering group late 2016 and will be communicated to our employees during Q1 2017. Solar Group is dedicated to turning energy efficiency into profitable and responsible business for our customers. As such, we have a green profile by nature, working to promote sustainable energy solutions and induce initiatives to the benefit of our society. We acknowledge the fact that our success comes at a cost to the world around us in a number of ways. Therefore, we in Solar have made a formal decision to conduct business ethically and to contribute to sustainable development. We want to embed the CSR thinking into our projects and operational processes to make sure that CSR is not a standalone discipline, but a natural part of our way of doing business. CSR has a lot to do with doing good and giving back. But no matter what we do, our CSR initiatives must make business sense. International standards for sustainability In order to integrate CSR into our daily business, we have committed ourselves to upholding the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of human rights, labour, environment and 6 COP report 2016 CSR policy anti-corruption. The Global Compact aims to promote a communicate our principles and actions effectively The current focus areas are: sustainable development of society and forms the to customers who care about environment-friendly • Responsible sourcing and procurement framework of Solar’s work with CSR. product lines. management • Human rights In addition, Solar is a listed company and as such • Our investors have a significant interest in knowing • Environment obligated to uphold the standards of the Danish that we are a socially responsible company. The Financial Statements Act. Our yearly Communication of development over the recent years has added CSR Progress to the UN Global Compact is therefore to be as yet another parameter to assess the vitality of a seen as a supplement to our annual report. company. Reporting Once a year, we submit a Communication on Progress Purpose of CSR • We want to stay alert and able to be proactive when (COP) to the UN Global Compact. This communication In Solar, we have made a formal decision to conduct it comes to handling potential risks within CSR. on progress also represents Solar Group’s compliance ethically and to contribute to sustainable development. with sections 99a and 99b of the Danish Financial We want to embed the CSR thinking into our projects • We aim to integrate considerations to environment, Statements Act. and operational processes to make sure that CSR is not a labour, human rights and anti-corruption into our standalone discipline, but a natural part of our way of business and to the relationships we have with our To keep our CSR communication dynamic, we have doing business. employees and business partners. moved from a static CSR report and onto regular communication on cases on our website. In addition to Bottom line is that we want to integrate CSR into our • We want to be an active and committed business in cases, the website holds the required CSR daily operations where it makes sense – and we want to the communities and markets we operate in. documentation. You can find more information here. be strategic in our way of communicating it to our stakeholders. Target group In addition, Solar Group submits data to the Carbon This CSR policy applies to Solar Group and constitutes Disclosure Project (CDP), an internationally recognised Strategy for CSR the framework for our work with CSR. It serves to reporting system to give our investors access to • Over the past years, we too have noted a significant inform both internal and external stakeholders of what standardised and comparable data about our increase in the customers’ demand for documented CSR means to Solar and how we go about it. environmental impacts. CSR initiatives on our behalf. They want to know that we are a socially responsible company – and Organisation they want to be able to tell their customers that we In Solar Group, CSR is anchored with our Senior Vice are. President of HR and Communications. Our group HR community constitutes a steering group that makes sure • We want to use CSR to attract new employees and that we all times have 3-4 focus areas for our make ourselves attractive to our current employees. organisation to work with over the coming year. The We believe that our CSR involvement to a large steering group plays a vital role in keeping our CSR extent is becoming a requirement from the new profile proactive and effective, and through their generations. positions in the management teams, they know Solar’s strategy – and what to initiate to support the strategy in • We see a potential in using CSR as a strategy to the best possible way. open up new markets for energy-efficient products and solutions. We can grab market shares if we 7 COP report 2016 Environment and climate Environment and climate We acknowledge of hazardous materials. As we acknowledge the fact that these may pose an environmental risk, we have defined that Solar’s and standardised procedures for the handling of these. In addition, standards have been created for our four key markets with strict guidelines on procedures if an business activities incident was to happen involving a hazardous material. In both matters, we consider the risks under control. leave a significant KPIs CDP’s Climate Disclosure Score is a measure of the mark on the quality and comprehensiveness of the information provided in the company’s response to CDP’s annual climate change questionnaire. The disclosure score is a environment metric of good internal management, an understanding of climate change issues and company transparency on climate change. Therefore, our disclosure score is a KPI which we monitor and have set goals to improve. However, we acknowledge that Solar’s business activities Energy labels show how an appliance ranks on a scale leave a significant mark on the environment, from A to G according to its energy consumption, class A transporting products and services from A to B. being the most energy efficient. A KPI has been defined to eliminate the use of company cars less efficient than Polices classes A and B. Since 2010, Solar has reported data to the Carbon Disclosure Project. In addition to monitoring our Actions and results emission, we focus on finding ways to further reduce In 2016, Solar Group adopted a handbook for our work emission in our daily business. Our CDP work is with CDP. This means that the process of collecting data described in a CDP strategy which is available to all throughout the group has been harmonised to ensure a employees on our intranet. homogeneous approach. The group handbook describes in detail how, what and when to collect, and was Data is collected from Solar A/S, Solar Danmark A/S, implemented in due time to ensure proper data Solar Norge AS, Solar Sverige AB, Solar Nederland B.V., collection for 2016. Solar Polska Sp. Z o.o., GFI and P/F Solar Føroyar. To minimise the risk for errors in our internal reporting Risks process, our subsidiaries now enter the requested data The nature of Solar Group’s business activities does not directly into a system available on our intranet. In pose significant risks when it comes to the environment. addition to minimising the risk for errors, it facilitates Our most significant strain on the environment comes the transparency we wish to have within our group. from our distribution activities and work related car travel, purchased heat and electricity. Increased activity Going forward, consultancy Deloitte validate our data will result in an increase in our emission. consolidation and emission factors to ensure correct reporting for CDP. Figures for 2016 CDP will be available at our website in Q1 2017. Our activities in central warehouses include the handling 8 COP report 2016 Labour Labour We aim for a higher degree of diversity, as we believe that this makes us a strong business The Solar Group’s approach is for all employees in the individual enterprises to be treated in the same way, regardless of gender, age, race and religion so that all employees have equal opportunities when it comes to employment, employment terms, training and promotions. We aim for a higher degree of diversity, as we believe that this makes us a strong business. Solar always hires the most qualified candidate regardless of this person’s political, religious or personal orientation. In 2016, we worked to solidify the framework for recruiting new employees from a representative candidate pool. An expressed requirement now is to have both genders represented in a candidate pool for a vacant management position in Solar Group. We make active efforts to develop our employees and want to make it clear that employees at all levels can find interesting careers in Solar. To do so, we look at each individual employee’s potential. Solar is fully compliant with all requirements stemming from labour legislation and collective agreements in the 9 COP report 2016 Labour countries in which we operate. We work to ensure safe KPIs In the annual employee performance appraisals, we working conditions regulation related to social relations An indicator of our employees’ wellbeing is the stick focus on performance, competence development, and employee conditions. Our stand on the area has rate. Our ultimate aim is always to have more satisfied, development potential, mobility and career plans. In been defined in a number of policies described below. loyal employees that actively want to remain with us. addition, we run an internal management training Therefore, we have set an ambitious target of a 90% programme that promotes management competences Policies stick rate. and tools, allowing our managers grow. In 2016, we Our diversity policy expresses our view that all Solar continued the development of integrated leadership Group employees are to be treated equally, with no The employee turnover refers to the percentage of training planned for execution in spring 2017. regard to gender, age, race or religion, ensuring equal workers who leave our organisation and are replaced by rights for all when it comes to employment, employment new employees. As a high employee turnover can be A stick rate of 87% is a solid improvement compared to terms, training and promotions. In 2015, Solar Group hurtful to a company’s bottom line, we aim for a last year, and definitely a step in the right direction. As implemented a Mercer position grading system and reduced employee turnover. our target remains at 90%, there is still room for defined a target for the number of the underrepresented improvement. gender in upper level management positions. While some absence due to illness is inevitable, it is evident that sick days delay work, create stressful When it comes to employee turnover, a 2016 result of 7% Actions guiding our employees are described in an situations for other workers, and represent a cost to our is an improvement compared to last year. However, we employee handbook which is available on our intranet. company. Therefore, we continuously monitor our are still not where we want to be. The employee handbook is a compilation of policies, employees’ sick rate. Our KPI for sick rate is 3%. procedures, working conditions and behavioural Ending the year at 3.5%, our sick rate has greatly expectations. When it comes to diversity, we have defined targets to improved compared to last year. The present level is very ensure a more balanced distribution of women and men satisfactory all throughout Solar. Our Code of conduct states that Solar will comply with in our two upper management levels. Solar’s aim is an applicable laws and regulations and act in an ethical, overall distribution of women and men of 25% and 75%, As at 31 December 2016, our upper management level sustainable and socially responsible manner in our respectively, by 2018. Solar Group Management was all male. The overall business activities. Respect for human rights is an gender distribution in the two upper management levels integral part of Solar’s ethical framework. Actions and results is 16% women and 84% men. To ensure this In 2015, we implemented a uniform recruitment process development, we will require that both genders are Risks with identical assessment tools, and this step led to the represented amongst the final candidates for all jobs at An evitable risk of running a business is workplace switch to a cross-border IT tool for recruitments. Our senior management level. accidents. When it comes to labour and employee new recruitment tool was fully integrated in 2016. conditions, safety at work is our top priority beyond On a positive note, we have observed an increase in an compare. We have taken a number of measures to keep Taking a holistic perspective of our employees’ work already strong employee engagement survey going from our safety at work at an acceptable level, including lifecycle, we introduced a satisfaction survey for 72% to 73%. Without resting on our laurels, we are working closely together with safety representatives, employees leaving the company in 2016. The new survey pleased to note an overall satisfaction with Solar Group keeping our employees fully informed about safety accompanies the global introduction programme based as a workplace. measures in our group, etc. On a yearly basis, we carry on e-learning aimed at making new employees familiar out Marsh reviews, auditing our 4 key central with Solar before their first work day. warehouses to make sure that all requirements to safety are met. 10 COP report 2016 Human rights Human rights Observing the KPIs For supplier management, KPIs define our goals for how human rights is an fast to bring our suppliers onto our updated code of conduct. As the majority of our suppliers have signed the code of conduct, our work with the KPIs is on track. indispensable part Actions and results Solar is committed to ethical business practices and we of driving business hold our suppliers to the same high standards. It is Solar Group policy to comply with all applicable laws and regulations of the countries and regions in which we in Solar Group operate and to conduct our business activities in an honest and ethical manner. Therefore, we have initiated a partnership with our suppliers, calling on them to sign our updated Code of conduct. Our Code of conduct That is why we committed ourselves to declares that Solar Group expects its suppliers to uphold conducting business in alignment with the UN the policies of Solar Group concerning compliance with Global Compact. We want to ensure that we all applicable law, respect for human rights, respect human rights in our operations as well environmental conservation and the safety of products as through our business relations. and services. Policies As for supplier management, our efforts for 2016 are on Our Code of conduct indicates that human rights are an track. integral part of Solar’s ethical framework. All of our employees1 have signed our code of conduct that dictates that Solar will comply with applicable laws and regulations and act in an ethical, sustainable and socially responsible manner in all of our business activities. The Solar Group Code of Conduct declares that Solar Group expects its suppliers to uphold the policies of Solar Group concerning compliance with all applicable law, respect for human rights, environmental conservation and the safety of products and services. Risks The greatest risk for Solar Group within human rights lie with our third party agreements. Through our suppliers’ signup to and compliance with the Solar Supplier Code of Conduct, the suppliers take full responsibility in their supply chain. 1. With the exception of MAG45 11 COP report 2016 Anti-corruption Anti-corruption Corruption In line with our expectations, there have been no changes to our setup or development in 2016. undermines growth and social and economical development Policies Corruption undermines growth and social and economic development. As it is an obstacle to trade, undermining clean and fair business, corruption is strictly against our group values. Therefore, our zero tolerance stand on anti-corruption and bribery has been clearly expressed in our supplier code of conduct and in the code of conduct governing our employees. Risks Solar Group’s business activities are not centered in high risk areas when it comes to corruption and bribery. Nevertheless, our supplier code of conduct dictates zero tolerance behaviour in both areas. In addition, our employee code of conduct states that the ban on corruption applies to all individuals acting on Solar’s behalf. The code of conduct is introduced to all employees and available on our website. KPIs We have not defined actual KPIs for this area. Actions and results Our whistle-blower scheme invites internal and external stakeholders to expose any kind of information or activity that is deemed illegal, unethical, or not correct. Any information exposed via the whistleblower scheme is received and handled by an independent authority. Read more about CSR in Solar on www.solar.eu http://www.linkedin.com/company/solar-as Solar A/S Industrivej Vest 43 DK-6600 Vejen Tel. +45 79 30 00 00 CVR no. 15908416
