UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2017 Reporting period: January 1st 2017 to December 1st 2017 www.jfhillebrandgroup.com OUR COMMITMENT TO UN GLOBAL COMPACT Message from the CEO Cees van Gent Dear reader, JF Hillebrand Group has been an active member of the Environment and sustainability are major focus areas UN Global Compact since 2011, joining companies right across our business. In 2008, we set ourselves around the world in a joint effort to promote corporate a 2025 goal to reduce our carbon dioxide emissions responsibility and to demonstrate that business is a per container by 45%. To date, we have lowered our force for good. carbon dioxide emissions per container by 24% and we are continuously working towards achieving our For the past six years, the UN Global Compact has goal. We aim to be at the forefront of sustainable been serving an important purpose across our transport, and to play a positive role in the industries portfolio of global logistics companies in setting a clear and societies in which we operate. and consistent path to follow in the areas of human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. As We are proud to support the UN Global Compact and Chief Executive since the 1st of October 2017, I affirm remain committed to making a real difference in our my commitment to continuing our membership and to global community. furthering our progress in these areas. Yours sincerely, We have undertaken numerous actions at a global Cees van Gent and local office level to ensure that the principles of CEO, JF Hillebrand Group AG the UN Global Compact are integrated into our daily operations. Over the past year we have launched many initiatives to develop our staff and to further enhance our working environments. We support a number of charities around the world, and have contributed towards disaster relief projects in the Caribbean. JF HILLEBRAND GROUP UN GLOBAL COMPACT 2017 1 PRESENTATION OF THE JF HILLEBRAND GROUP PROFILE & HISTORY JF Hillebrand Group is a privately-owned international logistics service provider operating in two specific niche markets: Beer, Wine and Spirits and Industrial Bulk. The Group employs 2,500 people, has a presence in 91 countries, and generated revenues of €1.3 billion in 2016. This is JF Hillebrand Group’s sixth annual Communication on Progress (COP). In this document we will disclose the actions and policies that JF Hillebrand Group has undertaken over the past 12 months to implement the Global Compact’s ten principles in the four issue areas: Human Rights, Labour, Environment and AntiCorruption. We also assess and measure the outcomes within the context of the COP framework. JF HILLEBRAND TRANS OCEAN JF Hillebrand, the Group’s founding brand, exists since Trans Ocean was acquired by JF Hillebrand in 2007. 1844. Christof Hillebrand, Chairman of the Supervisory Trans Ocean has been providing fully integrated Board, represents the 5th generation of the logistics for non-hazardous liquids solutions for Hillebrand family. JF Hillebrand is an over 35 years. It is the only global Flexitank service international logistics service provider, solely provider that is also vertically integrated. The dedicated to beer, wine and spirits logistics, company designs, produces, and fits F lexitanks, working with a large network of local and provides end-to-end logistics, and manages international carriers, sea freight and airfreight worldwide equipment recovery and recycling. This companies. The company is an expert in allows for complete control over equipment supply international customs legislation. The largest and quality, leading to the continuous improvement international spirits distributors and prestigious of every aspect of its global operations. wine producers and importers have chosen JF Hillebrand for its expertise. Currently Trans Ocean focuses on three broad product verticals: mineral oils, chemicals and JF Hillebrand offers a full range of logistics solutions food products. Beside the company’s technical and services for cased goods, bulk wine and keg supply expertise, Trans Ocean’s logistics experts, engineers chain management for the beer industry. and technical teams provide a tailored, personal Whatever the logistics challenge, the global network service and end-to-end solutions worldwide. of experts situated in every major beverage market in the world, will find the optimum solution. 2 JF HILLEBRAND GROUP UN GLOBAL COMPACT 2017 HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLE 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights PRINCIPLE 2 Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses ASSESSMENT, POLICY AND GOALS • JF Hillebrand Group supports the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. We recognise our responsibility to uphold human rights issues within our organisation and within our sphere of influence. IMPLEMENTATION • We have drafted a company-wide Code of Business Conduct that expresses our commitment to human rights and that creates policies and processes to uphold the Declaration of Human Rights throughout our supply chain. This will be implemented in 2018. • We have undertaken and supported humanitarian projects to provide local communities with education and health programmes, including financial and resource support to almost 40 charities and organisations worldwide. MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES • We have taken active steps to devote financial, human and time resource to charitable and humanitarian initiatives and activities. • JF Hillebrand Group has not been complicit in any human rights abuses, and has not been subject to any investigations, legal cases or incidents involving human rights. 3 JF HILLEBRAND GROUP UN GLOBAL COMPACT 2017 HUMANITARIAN AID I THE USA & FRANCE AFTER IRMA HURRICANE Moved by the devastation caused in Saint Martin and Saint Barthelemy by Hurricane Irma on the 6th of September 2017, JF Hillebrand France has been working with the French Civil Protection Federation to provide relief to those suffering after the disaster. According to some estimates, 95% of the population of Saint Martin and Saint Barthelemy were affected by the hurricane homes, schools, power and communications infrastructure, shops and markets are all severely damaged. People were in need of essential supplies including sanitary items, food, Our North American offices joined together to support our bottled water and clothing. customer Stansfeld Scott Inc. by pledging to help with the JF Hillebrand collaborated with the French Civil Protection to transportation of building relief supplies such as generators, deliver a shipment of basic essentials, receiving and packing plywood, power tools, etc, to the affected islands in the the items in our warehouses in Bordeaux and Beaune. From Caribbean. Our donation included covering the container there we sent them by airfreight to Guadeloupe, which has shipping costs for four containers in total, two to St Thomas, the only functioning airport in the area. one to St Maarten, and one to Tortola. FIGHT AGAINST CANCER I THE NETHERLANDS FIGHT AGAINST POVERTY I ARGENTINA RUN FOR KIKA BARRIO ABIERTO October 1st, JF Hillebrand Benelux participated together The Barrio Abierto (Open Neighbourhood) event with a lot of volunteers in a sponsored charity run organised is organised by CreerHacer (Make-Believe), a social by “Run for KiKa”. This NGO is dedicated towards helping enterprise in Argentina. This event is a kind of TEDx those with childhood cancer, to improve the quality of talk, in which people who have been able to medical treatment and to decrease the side effects which overcome challenges in their lives such as crime, drugs, often still occur at a later age. violence or abuse, use their experiences to motivate others. Our goal was to raise more than €7,500 for Sem, who has JF Hillebrand provides support at all levels, including suffered with leukemia from the age of eight. Together charitable contributions and volunteering by our team with our team we succeeded in this. We participated in a members. This is more than a sponsorship to run of 10 km, 5 km or 1 km (kids run), raising a total of our organisation as it is led at the Mendoza city level €7,910 for the KiKa organisation. by our Operations Manager, Corina Mora. 4 JF HILLEBRAND GROUP UN GLOBAL COMPACT 2017 LABOUR PRINCIPLE 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining PRINCIPLE 4 Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour PRINCIPLE 5 Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labour PRINCIPLE 6 Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation ASSESSMENT, POLICY AND GOALS • JF Hillebrand Group supports and advocates the International Labour Organization (ILO) Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work. • We recognise the right to collective bargaining, and uphold the abolition of forced, compulsory and child labour, and the elimination of discrimination. • JF Hillebrand Group offices comply with all local employment acts and regulations, local Health and Safety regulations and provide safety training to staff as appropriate. • We do not and will not engage in activity with any organisation which uses forced or child labour. • Our employees are given information on company rules, grievance and disciplinary procedures. • We ensure that all employees are treated fairly and respectfully. • We aim to create an inclusive corporate culture where our staff and employees are nurtured. IMPLEMENTATION • We are an equal opportunity employer with a zero tolerance policy on workplace discrimination. • We have implemented risk management and disaster recovery programmes for the protection and safety of our staff. • We promote and comply with all Health and Safety regulations throughout our network of offices and sites. • We have implemented an HR structure and policies/development programmes designed to nurture, train and develop our staff. All personnel are encouraged to develop their skills by attending appropriate training courses. • We have implemented Talent and Succession Management Programme for professional career review and development. • We have introduced and developed Health Management and Assessment programmes, promoting a healthy lifestyle to staff. JF HILLEBRAND GROUP UN GLOBAL COMPACT 2017 5 LABOUR • We comply with all minimum wage regulations. • We have launched a new Data and Privacy Protection Policy in August 2017. • We have drafted a company-wide Code of Business Conduct that includes standards and policies on workplace integrity, health and safety, and speaking up. This will be implemented in 2018. MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES • We have not been subject to any investigations, legal cases, rulings, fines or other relevant events related to Labour or Health and Safety prosecutions. • We have supported local community projects education and health programmes, aimed at eliminating child labour and any form of discrimination. SKILLS DEVELOPMENT I GROUP HR OUR LABOUR LABOUR INTERNATIONAL TRAINING PROGRAMMES iLead programme for country Managing Directors has run from 2015 4 modules: KEY FIGURES o How to create an engaging work environment o Strategic Business Skills development o Driving a feedback culture o Talent and Succession management training 65 participants iLead 2.0 programme for middle management started in 2017 2 modules: o How to create an engaging work environment 2.0 o Fueling future performance 105 participants JF Hillebrand Academy started in 2011 International information sharing, knowledge transfer, skill training and networking event 120 participants Globe Trotter International Development Assignment started in 2017 A group-wide initiative that is designed to provide international exposure and learning opportunities to employees by offering short fixed-term assignments, of 12 to 15 months, at international locations across group offices and functions 5 participants JF HILLEBRAND GROUP UN GLOBAL COMPACT 2017 6 GOOD HEALTH I SINGAPORE & THE NETHERLANDS STAYLABOUR LABOUR IN SHAPE! The JF Hillebrand Singapore team had an early start on a Saturday morning last September to participate in the B60 CharityKEY FIGURES Run, raising money for the Care Community Services Society. It was a very good turnout by our team for a really worthwhile cause. The CCSS supports many vulnerable families across Singapore. JF Hillebrand’s team ran (mostly!) for 60 minutes around the National Stadium, enjoying great views of the JF Hillebrand arranged a 100-day global challenge, which city. A good way to stay in shape. started on the 24th May 2017 to improve employee health in a fun way. After the challenge it was proven In the Netherlands, the company provided a Preventive that people exercise more, eat more healthily and get Medical Examination in May 2017 to all employees. Staff better sleep. All together we had eight teams of seven who wanted to participate were checked for glucose level, people and on the final day we collectively took blood pressure, heartbeat, vision, BMI, and their physical 60,711,934 steps and used 10,199,605kJ! strength and ability. AWARD I PORTUGAL AWARD I GROUP IT & MARKETING COMMUNICATIONS BEST COMPANY TO WORK AT HI! NEW DIGITAL WORKPLACE For the second consecutive year, JF Hillebrand has been JF Hillebrand was among seven businesses recognised for named the best transport and logistics company to work at digital workplace excellence at Igloo’s annual conference, in Portugal, and the 22nd best overall. ICE’17, on Wednesday 20th September. This yearly award is given by a panel that includes Exame, The Digital Transformation Awards the country’s top business magazine, Aese Business School acknowledge Igloo customers that and Everis NTT, a leading data firm. The companies that have taken significant s teps t o enter for this award range are of all sizes and industries, transform and digitise the workplace. employing more than 40,000 people. JF Hillebrand was awarded Best The criteria for the award were having a feeling of belonging Overall Digital Workplace, in and engagement, individual recognition, responsible recognition of the work we have management practices, personal growth and skills done to foster a friendly working development, interactions between leaders and teams, and environment that promotes work/life balance. collaboration, engagement and teamwork. Erik den Ouden, IT Director at JF Hillebrand Group, who collected the award on behalf of the company, says that Igloo’s functionalities broke down silos, focusing on creating a greater user experience. “It has made it so much easier for us to learn, share, and connect with each other, which is essential considering we are an international logistics services provider with colleagues all over the world.” 7 JF HILLEBRAND GROUP UN GLOBAL COMPACT 2017 GENDER EQUALITY I FRANCE NO DISCRIMINATION I SOUTH AFRICA CELEBRATE WOMEN AT SCHOOL LEAVERS PROGRAMME It is no surprise that JF Hillebrand has been The main emphasis of the Pebbles Project is education. The Pebble supporting the Féminalise wine tasting Foundation enriches the lives of disadvantaged children and families competition for the past three years. Indeed in the Winelands farming communities in South Africa’s Western seven out of 10 JF Hillebrand France employees Cape. It focuses on the entire life of the child and the challenging are women. Féminalise is a wine competition circumstances in which they live in order to make a significant and that celebrates the contribution and expertise lasting difference. Since Pebbles’ inception in 2004, it has improved of women in the wine industry. The entirely the lives of children and their families by providing support and female judging panel is formed of oenophiles intervention in five key areas: Education, Health, Nutrition, Community and and industry professionals. and Protection. JF Hillebrand France employs 250 women Mid-teen years are a tricky period in any child’s life and even more across all areas of the business including top so in the underprivileged areas of South Africa. School subjects management roles, sales, operations, customs, and career choices, application processes and further education warehousing, transport, finance and IT. opportunities can be overwhelming. The Pebbles Foundation works with local children in the Cape Winelands Region to guide them towards self-aware educational and career choices. JF Hillebrand South Africa’s involvement begins at the Early Childhood Development (ECD) stages with our Pebbles Bellevue Daycare Centre. As part of our Corporate Social Responsibility initiative, we commit to 10 internships annually. In 2017, two of our interns, Zadie Isaacs and Michelle van Wyk came through the Pebbles Within JF Hillebrand’s French management Foundation, and both attended the Pebbles Bellevue Daycare team, four out of six directors are women. “Our Centre. Both candidates are now on our 12-18 month NQF French customers are mainly women, and our Level 3 Freight Forwarding and Customs Clearance internship internal workforce is also largely feminine. and on completion of the course will each have earned a highly Our company reflects the French wine sector, respected qualification. Our industry sector has an average with women increasingly present, particularly retention rate of approximately 88% and together we have in decision-making positions”, explains Carole enabled these women with a great opportunity of building a Walter, Warehousing and Transport Director. permanent career in logistics. Beyond their knowledge about wine export techniques and regulations, JF Hillebrand France women are also informed wine tasters. Thanks to their training or passion, they are used to participating in wine tasting panels. Last year, sixteen JF Hillebrand France tasters joined the Féminalise competition as members of the judging panel. JF HILLEBRAND GROUP UN GLOBAL COMPACT 2017 8 ENVIRONMENT PRINCIPLE 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental changes PRINCIPLE 8 Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility PRINCIPLE 9 Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies ASSESSMENT, POLICY AND GOALS • JF Hillebrand Group is fully committed to undertaking initiatives to promote environmental responsibility. We aim to reduce the environmental impact of our operations and activities. • JF Hillebrand Group supports a precautionary approach to environmental challenges through central and local risk assessment and risk management policies. • We have undertaken environmental initiatives throughout our global network to ensure both we, and our partners, minimise our carbon footprint. • We make our best efforts to maintain environmental awareness and responsibility among our staff in daily operations, management of our facilities and in new project implementation. • We will, whenever reasonably practicable, mitigate possible impacts to the environment during planning, design and execution of our operations. • By 2025 our goal is to reduce carbon dioxide emissions per container by 45% from 2008 levels. • One of our key objectives is to reduce and eventually eliminate the number of Flexitanks ending up in landfills. We are increasing the number of the Flexitanks we recycle and the number of steel bulkheads we recover and re-use. • We have invested in the development and use of environmentally friendly technologies e.g. Vinliners used as thermal protection for the beverage cased goods we ship. We aim to increase the recycling of our VinLiners in 2018. IMPLEMENTATION • We strive to improve our environmental performance, through initiatives and best practice, either alone or in partnership with others. We collaborate with our customers to meet their logistics objectives while also creating bespoke solutions to lower carbon emissions worldwide. 9 JF HILLEBRAND GROUP UN GLOBAL COMPACT 2017 ENVIRONMENT • We participate in non-profit forums to promote environmental best practice. These include: Containers Owners Association (COA) European Petrochemical Association Responsible Care Clean Cargo Working Group (CCWG, a B2B initiative managed by BSR/Business for Social Responsibility) Fédération internationale des Vins et Spiritueux (FIVS) Federation of Oils, Seeds and Fats Associations (FOSFA) European Chemical Industry Council (CEFIC) • In June 2017, JF Hillebrand signed a Carbon Pact with Maersk Line, the largest sea shipping line worldwide in which the two companies commit to reduce carbon dioxide emissions by 20% per container between 2017 and 2025. The Pact creates a partnership for achieving sustainable growth and a commitment to reduce the carbon dioxide emissions per container from JF Hillebrand’s shipments with Maersk Line. Our initiatives to reduce CO2 emissions include the following: Increased use of “Short-Sea” shipping – we use feeder services into smaller regional ports, as close as possible to the final delivery point. Using feeder options minimises road miles and eases congestion at ports and container terminals. Use of domestic coastal shipping – we use feeder services where appropriate to reduce the use of road transport. Inland waterways – where possible, we use barges and inland canal routes to cut down on road miles. Using rail where possible to reduce road transport emissions. Examples of this include transport from Iberia to Sweden by rail. Our Freight Procurement Group assesses and where possible prioritises ocean carriers with the best environmental performance according to the Clean Cargo scorecards. We develop technologies and solutions to minimise environmental impact: We transport liquids in bulk with our Flexitank systems. Bulk transportation allows shippers to reduce transport costs while also decreasing the associated carbon emissions by up to 50%. Importing liquids in bulk and bottling them at destination using lightweight recycled glass or other materials further reduces carbon emissions. We have a proactive and long-term Equipment Recovery Management plan to drive the recycling of our Flexitank products. We have invested in recycling facilities and actively promote these facilities to assist our clients. Our single layer Flexitank materials are 100% recyclable. Our multi-layer Flexitank is half of the weight of our single layer Flexitank and also fully recyclable. The Flexitank material is shredded, baled for granulation and cleaned before being palletized and manufactured into new products. We are actively managing and increasing the collection of steel bulkheads (used for Flexitank shipments), which are refurbished and reused throughout our network. We are now researching and investing in a bulkhead tracking system (KegID) to increase the number of recoveries. JF HILLEBRAND GROUP UN GLOBAL COMPACT 2017 10 ENVIRONMENT Our objective is to reduce to zero the number of Flexitanks used in landfill where practical. We have developed our own VinLiner thermal liners as an environmentally friendly alternative to shipping in temperature controlled reefer containers (which require approximately 30% to 40% more energy to refrigerate on the basis of the same transported tonnage). VinLiner is produced from a fully recyclable material. We also have a VinLiner recovery and recycling programme. We have developed a Carbon Calculator tool on the JF Hillebrand website, which allows shippers to calculate and compare carbon emissions via different transport modes. We have developed a number of IT tools (Kegspediter, LogiTrax, EcoBev and KegID) designed to help clients manage supply chains as efficiently as possible. EcoBev beverage disposal service is the only green solution for beverage disposal in the USA. Kegspediter is a solution that increases efficiency of the keg supply chain and helps brewers minimise their environmental impact. We have published a transport sustainability white paper, available to staff, clients and stakeholders. We are a SmartWay® Logistics Company Partner (applicable to our SLG division). We promote sustainable best practice. We have published a document titled “How to go green at work” with guidelines for each office and manufacturing plant, including: * Waste separation; * Recycling waste paper and sourcing paper from renewable sources; * Recycling plastic; * Reducing printing; * Saving energy; * Switching energy supply to renewable sources; * Use of lower emission or electric company cars; * Use of energy efficient office and IT equipment. MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES • Today we have lowered our carbon dioxide emissions per container by 24% and we are continuously working towards achieving our goal to reduce carbon dioxide emissions per container by 45% from 2008 to 2025. • We recycled 65% of our LLDPE Flexitanks in the Hillebrand Bulk (Wine) Division across our top 12 wine importing countries (in the third quarter of 2017). • In February 2017 JF Hillebrand was selected by Bodegas Torres as winner of the 1st Torres & Earth Awards – Best Transportation Supplier for implementing global measures to reduce carbon emissions: Developing an insulation system (VinLiner) that is 25% more carbon efficient than refrigerated containers Transporting wine by sea/rail rather than road Using wide pallets to maximize container capacity Incentivising drivers to consume less fuel • Trans Ocean, in collaboration with Freightliner, was named winner of the Lloyds List GFA Environment Award JF HILLEBRAND GROUP UN GLOBAL COMPACT 2017 11 ENVIRONMENT 2017 in recognition of its leadership in efforts to reduce energy consumption, emissions, noise pollution and environmental impact. • JF Hillebrand won the 2017 Drinks Business Green Award. • JF Hillebrand Scotland and all Trans Ocean manufacturing facilities (China, Malaysia and South Africa) receive independent ISO 14001 (Environmental) accreditation for environmental initiatives. • All Trans Ocean manufacturing facilities (China, Malaysia and South Africa) have received independent ISO 22000 accreditation, adopting a systematic approach to reducing physical, chemical, and biological hazards/ risks in production processes. AWARD I SPAIN BODEGAS TORRES RECOGNIZES SUPPLIERS FOR GREATEST REDUCTION IN CO2 EMISSIONS News / 2017 · 02 · 22 combating climate change is a fight we all share.” The 1st Torres & Earth Awards go to the glass manufacturer CO2 emissions reduced by up to 26% [...] Vidrala, the logistics company JF Hillebrand, and the Canela JF Hillebrand Spain, the Spanish division of the international winegrowers service provider specialized in the logistics of beer, wine and spirits, received the Torres & Earth Award for Best Bodegas Torres honours three of its suppliers that have made Transportation Supplier for implementing global measures to the greatest efforts to mitigate climate change by reducing reduce carbon emissions. their carbon emissions. At a ceremony held in Barcelona on the 23rd of February Miguel A. Torres, President of the family-owned winery and initiator of the Torres & Earth environmental program, presented awards to the glass bottle manufacturer Vidrala, the logistics company JF Hillebrand, and the Canela family of winegrowers. Miguel A. Torres acknowledged the real environmental commitment these companies have shown, mainly through initiatives and measures to promote energy efficiency in their operations, which have significantly reduced their emissions. Given how supplier-generated emissions account for over These measures are part of a comprehensive environmental 80% of Torres’s carbon footprint, this reduction also has a program, which was introduced more than 10 years ago. It positive impact on the winery’s own carbon balance, which includes the design of an innovative protective aluminum covers the entire production process of a wine bottle, from insulation system (VinLiner) that reduces carbon emissions the vineyard through final transport. by 25% compared to a traditional refrigeration system; the “A year and a half ago, we asked our suppliers to get more transport of goods by sea or train rather than trucks; the use involved in the fight against climate change and to help us of pallets wide to increase the number of boxes per container; reduce our carbon footprint. We developed ways of working and even incentivizes drivers to consume less fuel. [...] together to promote plans for emission reductions and carbon footprint appraisals,” Miguel A. Torres explained. He goes on Representing JF Hillebrand Spain were Carolina Hours, to say: “Today we wanted to recognize these companies for country manager, and Sandy Viscogliosi, sales manager; and their efforts to mitigate global warming. I’m happy to see representing Canela were Josep and Oriol Canela. that we’re making progress, albeit slowly, and I encourage them to keep up their environmental commitment, because JF HILLEBRAND GROUP UN GLOBAL COMPACT 2017 12 ANTI-CORRUPTION PRINCIPLE 10 Businesses should work against all forms of corruption, including extortion and bribery ASSESSMENT, POLICY AND GOALS • JF Hillebrand Group does not tolerate bribery, corruption and extortion in any form. • We are committed to complying with international and local anti-bribery and anti-corruption standards, laws and legislation. • We aim to create a corporate culture where an ethical and moral code is upheld by our staff. • We are transparent in all company transactions and operations. IMPLEMENTATION • As a member of various trade and industry bodies in the sectors in which we operate, we work with peers, partners and independent organisations to create transparent and level playing fields. • We have local anti-corruption policies in place across our office network, in line with local legislation. • Several initiatives have been taken to train our staff in anti-corruption and anti-bribery laws and regulations (e.g. FCPA in the US, UKBA in the UK) • Globally, we have implemented standard operating procedures to comply with international trade sanctions and prevent any transactions with blacklisted countries or individuals. • We fully support anti-terrorism processes including the C-TPAT and AEO. • We have drafted a company-wide Code of Business Conduct that will further strengthen our policy regarding anti-corruption. This will be implemented in 2018. • We have appointed a Group Risk & Compliance Director to oversee these matter, implement global policies according to the highest standards and be the referral to our staff for all compliance matters. MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES • JF Hillebrand Group has not been implicated in any cases or incidents of or related to extortion, corruption or bribery. • We have been subject to due diligence procedures by some of our larger customers with respect to our policies and business practices in relation to anti-corruption and anti-bribery and have been vetted by them as an approved supplier. 13 JF HILLEBRAND GROUP UN GLOBAL COMPACT 2017 APPENDIX WE SUPPORT: 1. Barrio Abierto by CreerHacer Argentina 2. Le Club des Petits Déjeuner Canada 3. The American Cancer Society “Making Strides against breast cancer” event USA 4. Hands of Hope – New Jersey Food Bank USA 5. Viña Los Vascos and local Government of Santa Cruz to bring the high school to the wine industry – The route of the Carmenere Chile 6. Member of the “friends of the Sophia Children’s Hospital” Erasmus Medical center Group –The Netherlands 7. Médecin du Monde – The Netherlands 8. KiKa Run – The Netherlands 9. The Cabinteely FC Mini World Cup Ireland 10. The Greystones Ireland 11. Wine and Spirits Trade Association (WSTA) UK 12. The Benevolent UK Drinks Industry Charity UK 13. Royal Marsden Gynaecological Cancer Research Fund, Charity Bike Ride from London to Paris UK 14. Weldmar Hospice Trust Charity Bike Ride Dorset UK 15. Weston Park Hospital Charity Bike Ride Sheffield UK 16. Southampton General Hospital – “Don’t you forget about me” Golf Day Southampton UK 17. Great North Run Newcastle Greencroft Bottling Facility UK 18. B60 The believe Charity Run organised by Care Community Services Society Singapore 19. Pebbles Projects– South Africa 20. The Pinotage Youth Academy – South Africa 21. Die Herberg Orphanage through Robertson Young Wine Show and Robertson Wine Valley Tourism South Africa 22. Caritas Germany 23. Fernsehlotterie Germany 24. Hochschule Ludwigshafen Germany 25. Restaurants du Cœur France 26. Croix Rouge Française France 27. Personnimages France 28. Kiwanis International France 29. Fédération Alliance 33 France 30. Le Pain de l’Amitié France 31. La Maison pour Rebondir France 32. 12 de Coeur France 33. Beaune Handball France 34. CSB Beaune Rugby France 35. Livres en vignesFrance 36. Cité du vin BordeauxFrance 37. Alize, Réseau EntreprendreFrance JF HILLEBRAND GROUP UN GLOBAL COMPACT 2017 14 CERTIFICATIONS / ACCREDITATIONS AEO ISO 9001 OHSAS 180001 ISO 140001 HACCP ISO 22000 FSSC 22000 Kosher Certification IDCP Halal Certified Codex Alimentarius International Code of Practice GMP Good Manufacturing Practices CRCC SQAS WE ARE MEMBER OF Containers Owners Association (COA) European Petrochemical Association Juice Products Association PIP programme by CBSA FENEX IIFA Helsinki Chamber of Commerce WSTA Responsible Care The Clean Cargo Working Group (CCWG, a B2B initiative managed by Business for Social Responsibility) Fédération internationale des Vins et Spiritueux (FIVS) The Federation of Oils, Seeds and Fats Associations (FOSFA) The European Chemical Industry Council (CEFIC) Sources: www.feminalise.com/blog/en/jf-hillebrand-and-feminalise-women-and-wine-internationally/ www.pebblesproject.co.za/ creerhacer.com.ar/barrio-abierto/ www.runforkika.nl/ www.protection-civile.org/actualite/2017/irma-soutien-aux-populations www.torres.es/en/we-are/news-item/bodegas-torres-recognizes-suppliers-greatest-reduction-co2emissions Photo credits: Feminalise, Pebbles Projects, CreerHacer, Protection Civile, JF Hillebrand Group AG 15 JF HILLEBRAND GROUP UN GLOBAL COMPACT 2017 We value your feedback We welcome any questions, comments or suggestions you might have regarding this report. Please send your feedback to: JF Hillebrand Group Head Office Carl-Zeiss Strasse 6 PostFach 100254 55129 Mainz Hechtsheim Germany info@jfhillebrandgroup.com This is our Communication on Progress in implementing the principles of the United Nations Global Compact and supporting broader UN goals. www.jfhillebrandgroup.com © JF Hillebrand Group | December 2017
