Global Compact Communication on Progress 2017 Hard work & heart-felt passion Statement from the CEO Based on gumption and not least a heart-felt pasTo stay among the leading suppliers of quality Our commitment to act responsible and chalfind it most promising that we have experienced sion to succeed, Karl Nielsen and Ove Jørgensen countertops, Jakob Bressendorf joined the devellenge our social, environmental and economical local commitment with the establishment of the founded HORN in 1992. opment as CEO in 2015, with a strong ambition to quality is becoming key elements of HORN as a new Danish UN Global Compact network group. Through hard work, they managed to embed position the future HORN as the green solution, brand and business partner. We hope that the establishment of this local HORN as an unconventional manufacturer of to a market known for being mostly cost-focused. group, will support us even further in integrating some of the markets best countertops -With the We communicate actively and public that; the Ten Principles with relevant and measurable widest range of design and creative solutions. Today HORN is among the leading European ‘Our vision is completely green’! methods for all areas within Human Rights, LaCelebrating HORNs 25th anniversary this year, countertops specialist. This is an ambitious statement, and we are well bour Rights, Environment and Anti-corruption. their enthusiasm and strong technological investSocial responsibility, environmental friendly-, aware that the process towards becoming comments have made the company grow steadily quality focusedand innovative solutions are the pletely green requires ongoing development, On behalf on HORN, I would like to thank you for over the years. cornerstones of our future market offerings. commitment and not least internal enthusiasm the interest you are showing in this report and from everyone in the organisation. –Both board thereby our organisation. members, who actively supports our corporate sustainability strategy; The management team Enjoy reading who communicate our incentives with internal –I wish you a most pleasant day! and external stakeholders and not least throughout our organisational departments where enJakob Bressendorf gagement is found through all layers. CEO HORN As I noted in last years Communication on Progress, and still believe, HORN have a world of Background opportunities, and not least ability to change the way the industry do business. This year we have been increasingly involved in During the years, HORN has evolved from being tary part of our future vision and mission. Howsustainable initiatives while simultaneously intea traditional Danish, family owned production ever, while our internal focus on social-, environgrating sustainability into our products and procompany, to an international countertopmental– and economical responsibility have induction facilities. specialist, delivering some of the markets best creased, we find a need to invest further in busiBeing a countertop manufacturer, the majority of solutions to leading European retailers. ness development to be prepared to address fuour procurement is wood from all over the world; ture challenges, and continuously evolve as a Africa, China, Brazil, most of the European counWith the growth comes increased responsibility responsible business. tries etc.. It is therefore with great personal in terms of production methods and employee pride, that I have been elected as board member welfare. We perceive this Communication on Progress a of FSC® Denmark, which I believe is the most We know, that our success is based on wellvaluable internal method to increase transparencredible system for ensuring of sustainable logqualified employees, their expertise and comprecy on efforts taken to implement the ten princiging –Due to both their strict rules for Chain of hensive material know-how –Ranging from solid ples. We intent to advance the principles within Custody, but also the overall perspective of mainwood, Corian®, GetaCore®, Silestone®, Dekour influence, and engage further in collaborative taining the community and the biological syston®, ceramic, granite, steel, laminate etc., and projects, to ensure a comprehensive organisatems. not least our GREEN COLLECTION. tional understanding of the principles, at all orAs member of the board, it is in my greatest inIt is therefore most important, to secure the ganisational levels. terest to promote FSC® certified wood as best in rights of all workers along our value chain, and class. At HORN we further wish to contribute to to enable continued personal development of our It is therefore with great pleasure that HORN a wide anchoring of FSC® on our markets internal employees. with this, our second communication on prothrough knowledge sharing and –building, to supgress, confirms its dedication and promotion of port increased demand for certified wood from We have endeavoured to create the necessary the UN Global Compact, which constitutes a good both customers and suppliers. structures and determination to create new opfoundation for our future work and focus on reportunities –And not least made CSR an elemensponsible business practices. With our engagement in UN Global Compact, we 2 3 GREEN COLLECTION Within the industry, we find a growing interest in cations during the summer of 2016. doing business based on environmental benefiGREEN COLLECTION is tested and secured cial specification and standards. However, the against emission of various harmful substances, development of products, actually fulfilling these to protect the general welfare amongst our cusspecifications, have not had its break-through tomers, and actively make an effort to prevent yet, with the consequence of standards not being e.g. cancer and lung diseases, which is greatly met. influenced by such emission. We wish to influence this development, and the speed of which environmental correct standards To further ensure the sustainable element the is being implemented –Both among suppliers, collection hold a FSC® certification and the customer and at a political level. Rainforest Alliance frog. This means, that no matter where your HORN countertop originate, To ensure market transparency, it is our objecyou are guaranteed that the area of origin is tive, that all of our products is to be certified working with sustainable development –E.g. imwithin applicable environmentaland health proving the conditions for the workers and their standards –So that any purchase decision can be communities, child labour is banished and the done without risk of damaging the overall health protection of biological systems and the preserof the end user, and make them confident that vation of wildlife is uphold. their purchase has went through a sustainable supply chain. We further believe that this will As solid wood countertops is one of our best sellmake a huge difference by requiring more of the ing products, we naturally found, that this should industry, making the purchase decision transparbe the next extension of GREEN COLLECTION. ent and not least help protect end-users from We are therefore more than proud, that we have harmful substances. extended the collection with GREEN COLLECTION Wood, including 8 new products; Oak, In 2015 we got our first laminate collection emisAsh, Core Ash, Beech, Maple Tree, Cherry Tree, sion-tested at the Danish accredited European Walnut & American Walnut. Last but ‘Technological Institute’. However, to fulfil all of not least we also extended the collection with the markets statutory declared emission limits – GREEN COLLECTION Bamboo. We got the collection further tested with In 2018 it is once more our goal to extend GREEN ‘bravour’ within all applicable European specifiCOLLECTION with further products. 4 5 Rethink Business Denwood At the end of 2016 HORN were selected to join a take-back solutions to ensure maximum sustainJoin the circular economy revolution: ing served in an unpretentious and flexible style, Rethink Business Project. The project is an innoability based on the cornerstones of the paraThe main objective of the Rethink Business proform the foundation of Denwood. vation process, aimed at developing sustainable digm of circular economy. ject were to design a future HORN business modand profitable business models for Danish SMEs, The multiple ideas were summarized into a 5 el with optimal resource utilisation –And prolong Their mantra is: Reduce Reuse Recycle! With initiated by the following partners: year roadmap, showing multiple broad-spectrum the lifetime of valuable resources. the notion that; There is way too much waste  European Social Fund (ESF) milestones to be reached. in this world!  European Regional Development Fund In our 2016 Communication on Progress we brief(ERDF) CEO, Jakob Bressendorf quote: ly informed about the establishment of a new, While the primary internal objective with this  Central Denmark Region ‘We have become much more aware of what it local social enterprise; Denwood, in which we establishment is to ensure a better use of all of  Business Development Centre Central Denmeans, when we state we want to be a green saw an opportunity to reuse and recycle all spare materials, we likewise find a desire to engage in mark company! I find that especially the planned -elements from our countertop production. socially beneficial purposes, in relation to the  Lifestyle & Design Cluster. roadmap will contribute to our future develhuman right principle. opment, as it advance in being a systematic As the business model design process were HORN participated in the project with the Danmethod, which guides and prioritizes our efbased on the principles of circular economy, we Besides being the recipient of HORNs residual ish Cradle2Cradle department; ‘Vugge til Vugge’ forts. –Thereby it becomes much easier to imseized the opportunity to increase our cooperawood, Denwood is furthermore, very much aware and its CEO Annette Hastrup. plement changes. The upcoming task from the tion with Denwood, to establish a minimumof their social responsibility. In cooperation with roadmap is equally figuring in our balanced waste approach in our wood collections. As a reregional municipalities and jobcentres, they help scorecard with our other upcoming task, to sult we now send all spare-elements and defecpeople whom, for various reasons, have a reBecoming a ‘green’ company ensure implementation.‘ tive solid wood items to Denwood, for them to duced working capacity to get a daily working With the launch of GREEN COLLECTION, HORN remanufacture into new designer goods. life back on track. were as an organisation already very much A future with certification & circular economy aware of their environmental profile and strateWhile the results of the project serve as a strong A perfect match While it might be a small step for us, we wish to gy, before joining the project. foundation for organisational development, more Denwood is established on visions for a better support Denwoods development, as we hope that However, throughout the process new ideas product certifications will come to guide the confuture and driven by goals to make a difference. it will be one in many, to ensure that we help proevolved for the future green HORN –Including sumers in a transparent way. Great service and professional knowledge shartect the planet as well as helping people. Read and download the full case description here: http://rethinkbusiness.dk/ portfolio-item/certificeringcirkulaer-oekonomi-vejenfrem-horn-bordplader-as/ 6 7 HORN Product certifications FSC® INDOOR AIR COMFORT Certified wood GOLD To ensure that none of our components is manuThe Indoor Air Comfort – Gold certificate enfactured under conditions that disrespect intersures the end-user that our GREEN COLLECnationally proclaimed human rights, the first step TION countertop solutions, deduce even less HORN made towards being more environmental than the strict market specification requires. friendly was the decision that all woodprocurement, and to the extent possible some of As a further mark of quality for the Indoor Air our chipboards and laminate surfaces, were exComfort certificate, we opted for the ‘Gold’ ediclusively FSC®-certified, to take responsibility tion meaning that all GREEN COLLECTION solufor both the environment, animals and people tions have went through a Factory Production along our supply chain. Control, guaranteeing that the tabletops is produced from the highest internal standards. FSC® is an international membership organisation that sets standards for responsible forest The certification method is applicable to the Eumanagement, and is supported by a broad range ropean market as a total, which in other words, of stakeholders. The certification help protect guarantee that the collection complies with all indigenous people, maintain community relation current standards, laws and requirements in the and enhance forest workers right. European market. As it is our ambition to be working holistic with sustainability we find FSC® to be the most crediRainforest Alliance ble system, as a result of the strict rules for chain of custody and overall perspective of maintaining Rainforest Alliance is an international non-profit both the community and biological systems. organisation working to build strong forest and In other words, we find FSC® to be the best poshealthy communities through collaboration withsible method to influence the industry, to considin a growing network of farmers, foresters, comer the use of wood and the health and safety of munities, scientists, governments, environmenforest workers, while looking after precious fortalists and businesses dedicated to conserving est wildlife. biodiversity. As an extension of our FSC® certification and While FSC® is working actively to support genHORN CEO, Jakob Bressendorf being elected as eral forestry, Rainforest Alliance is especially a FSC® board member, HORN furthermore befocused at ensuring sustainable livelihoods by came a FSC® membership organisation in 2017. transforming land-use practices and business To support the promotion of the mark, we wishes practices in tropical areas. to contribute to a broad anchoring of sustainable As we trade tropical wood it has therefore been wood procurement throughout our markets of important for us to support a healthy developinfluence. ment in these areas. 8 9 Global Compact Principles In order to indicate our intents, and continously overview of CSR activities (baseline), and subsemake decisions that improve our social-, environquently identify important focal points for their mental and economical responsibility, we chose future work by setting relevant specific goals. to take part in the UN Global Compact. With the commitment, it is in our foremost interest to make the principles an active part of our overall strategy, organisational culture and general day-to-day operations. Green Networks CSR Skyline is built according to the following main categories: Economy, EthA key element of our future CSR work, will be ics, Environment and Employment (E4). Howevour Rethink Business roadmap based on the parer, it is based on the 10 UN Global Compact prinadigm of circular economy. However, to ensure a ciples, and recommend various focal points to measurable and consequent approach is being ensure compliance with and future improverooted throughout our organisational levels and ments within these principles. our external communication, we have since auFor each category there is a number of different gust 2017 been a member of the Danish CSR orthemes (69 themes in total), which should be givganisation: Green Network. en a score from 1-6 depending on the company As an initial method, we will be comparing our assessment and current status within the various progress within the UN Global Compact with our themes. self-assessment made in cooperation with Green Network. 1. Reactive Following rules & regulations 2. Normative Following standards, business norms and compliance 3. Active Responsive to societal expectations 4. Proactive Managerial control, readiness to change 5. Leadership Trendsetting, conservative leadership The goal of Green Network is to support organi6. Market Leadership sations with knowledge and tools to work with First-mover, may change market condi CSR as a method to integrate business ethical tions, innovator initiatives in their business. We believe that the engagement in Green NetAs an initial step, we have chosen to work with 8 work as an extension to UN Global Compact will themes, from each category, which we find relehelp us develop a relevant capacity to perform vant for our current situation. self assessment, but also ensure our values and These themes will be our focal points for imthe UN Global Compact principles are being upprovement during 2018 and forward. hold throughout our value chain, by providing relevant and measurable methods for analysing On the right side you will find our current baseour progress. line score and goals for improvement during 2018. E4 Skyline Further information on current initiatives to supCSR Skyline is a self-assessment tool, which port the Global Compact principles, is found on companies can make use of, to gain an initial the following pages. 10 11 Human Right Principles Progress: Goals: Active dialogue Assessment, due diligence & risk management In our 2016 Communication on Progress we To guide our work within the Human Rights prinplanned to inform our partners about the releciple throughout our value chain, it is our objecvancy of among others certified and tested prodtive to make use of tried and tested management ucts and responsible business practices. systems. The main objective of this, were initially to evoke This includes an assessment of potential human a process of active dialogue and knowledge sharrights impacts and the establishment of ongoing ing. In 2017 we therefore made our internal susdue diligence and risk management systems. In tainable initiatives and our knowledge regarding relation to this, we plan for our partners to sign general industry development within this matter, our Code of Conduct during 2018. our main focal point throughout our communication. Looking at our selected E4-Ethics focal points, our self-assessment acknowledge that we for Leadership on Code of Conduct most subjects regarding Human Rights have As a method for securing that we do not complicit been too reliant on the Danish legislation. While in human right abuses and that all our partners this is not necessarily negative, it nonetheless strive to act in responsible matters, we planned means, that we are only compliant with standto set up a Code of Conduct. The relevance of this ards and business norms, or at best reacting acwere emphasized during our Rethink Business tively on social expectations. HORN supports and respects the protection of project, but we also came to know, that for our We both can and will do more than that –And aim internationally declared human rights. Code of Conduct to be effective, we need to asto, at minimum, take on a proactive managerial To support local community activity, we have sure, that we have the right management syscontrol within all subjects. made an active choice to keep our business facilitems to implement it throughout our value chain. As seen in the E4-Ethics, we furthermore aim to ties in the small Danish village; Aulum. We thereOur objectives regarding our Code of Conduct, take on a leadership approach within the subfore naturally comply with Danish legislation, have therefore been adjusted, and are not yet jects of responsible supplier management, comwhich fulfils international conventions. completed. We nonetheless find this slower apmunication with stakeholders and cooperation In relation to the principles regarding labour the proach more meaningful, as the end-result will with NGOs. Our Code of Conduct, HORN AcadeDanish legislation makes us further subject to the be, that we manage to take leadership regarding my and FSC® membership will among others Confederation of Danish Employers (DA). The our proposed partner responsibilities. assist us in achieving this goal. confederation adds a comprehensive focus on employment policy, occupational health and labour law including a strong focus on wage and security. Cf. Labour policies we, however, strive to advance our employees terms of employment to ensure the best work environment. Managers of FSC® -certified forests must minimize disturbances associated with wood felling. Unlike conventional and non-FSC® certified forests, it help maintain habitats for larger populations of mammals and birds across the tropics. 12 13 Ove Jørgensen, Partner & Owner of HORN Labour principles We are well aware that our success is based on our tions, and need to be putting more focus towards employees and their individual expertise and how we can ensure effective management of our craftsmanship. However, we find that their wellbeemployees general well-being and safety. ing is, what makes all the difference –And we aim to During 2018 we aim to establish the right mechahold on to those competent co-workers of ours, by nisms to proactively improve our actions. However, improving their general joy in work. our ambition is, during the next years, to take a more consequent leadership approach regarding Progress: these subjects. Employee retention Promoting responsible business fare The living and working condiWe are continuously working towards being an atTo ensure that none of our components is manufactractive workplace, where the wellbeing of our emtured under conditions that disrespect internationtions (such as health insurance ployees is a paramount. ally proclaimed human rights, we have become and security procedures) are betThis year we have initiated an internal programme more aware of our responsibility for employees ter for workers in FSC certified for ensuring employee retention during seasonal along our value-chain, and how we can support and fluctuations in the production. This enables our promote responsible business fare forests than in forests without employees to keep their jobs, and the opportunity to certification in many countries in choose courses within their interest and expertise. Up-stream in our value chain we have made a conthe Congo-Basin (The world's sequent managerial decision, that all of our solid A study of FSC®-certified forests second largest rainforest). Employment of vulnerable groups wood is exclusively FSC®-certified from certified Our establishment of Denwood give us, as mensources, which meet strict standards that are enviin the Congo-Basin has shown, (cf. FSC®) tioned, the opportunity to help people whom, for ronmental appropriate and socially beneficial – that even in remote FSC®various reasons, have a reduced working capacity, Meaning, that they protect indigenous people, mainforests, the workers have access to get a daily working life back on track. tain community relation and enhance forest workto medical care. This is imers right. portant as there are frequent Goals: While the FSC® help us ensure the living and working conditions for workers in certified forest, we injuries among forest workers. Increase employee welfare aim to establish the same focus for other product (cf. FSC®) We aim to continuously be offering the right educagroups, and take proactive control during 2018 – tion for both our customers and our internal coEspecially regarding our stone based materials, workers. However, as seen in our self-assessment where we likewise should ensure that forced– and regarding E4-Employment we find, that we, to a child labour are abandoned and that the workers large degree only comply with societal expectaget a decent wage level. 14 15 Environmental principles Within recent years, environment has become a Product certification strategic focus at HORN. We furthermore succeeded with our objective of We find that we can do the most impact regardgetting at least one more product certified within ing the UN Global Compact environmental princiapplicable standards. ples, as our business, and industry in general, is As solid wood countertops is one of our topable to influence and support a precautionary sellers we found this selection to be a natural approach to environmental challenges. ’next choice’. GREEN COLLECTION were thereBased on clear improvement, transparency and fore extended with GREEN COLLECTION environmentally responsible management, we Wood, including 8 of our bestselling wood varietherefore aim to reduce environmental impacts ties; Oak, Ash, Core Ash, Beech, Maple Tree, throughout all of our operations. Cherry Tree, Europeanand American Walnut. Additionally we also got our Bamboo certified as Progress: a third sub-group to our GREEN COLLECTION. Sustainable energy management Goals: In our 2016 Communication on Progress we informed about our focus on minimizing our energy Partnerships & education consumption. By continuing our improvements in Cf. our E4-Environment assessment it is our amthis regard, HORN is within 2 years able to rebition and goal to take leadership in this regard duce our energy consumption with 154 MWh and and as an example encourage a national developour CO2 emissions with 40 tonnes. ment of environmental friendly building standHowever, with the purpose of protecting the enviards. This goal requires constant focus and ongoronment and promote the production of and ining involvement in relevant partnerships with vestment in green energy, HORN converted our stakeholders, to ensure that the information leventire energy consumption to 100% wind energy el, both internal and external, is aligned. Our Remedio 2017. think Business project has opened our eyes toAll of our 85 employees, working daily at our prowards multiple partnerships, that we will pursue duction and administration facilities in Aulum, during 2018, to increase our internal knowledge are therefore now working with green energy regarding the overall market development. and we are expecting to save the environment We further plan to initiate an educational proapproximately 372 tonnes CO2 during 2018 gramme; HORN Academy for which the primary (based on an expected consumption of 500 MWh). focus will be our product solutions and educational lessons on various CSR initiatives, to eduKnowledge sharing and –gaining cate and promote greater environmental responTo ensure that our customers and partners are sibility among our customers. informed , we made our internal sustainable initiatives our main focal point throughout our comResource effectiveness munication to our customers, including our trainAs we strive to create transparency in everything A study of forests in the northing programme. we do, and are in the process of minimizing all western North America has shown A further benefit of our Rethink Business project waste -We believe in the idea, that one man’s that FSC® certified forests generalwere, that we got an overview of which data we trash can become another man’s treasure. We ly store 25-60% more CO2 than needed from our suppliers, for which we had will therefore be working even further with our made the goal in our 2016 Communication on minimum-waste ambitions, and seek further non-FSC® certified forests -In Progress that we wanted to start gathering docupartnerships that can ensure this goal. some even more than 80%. mentation, as a method to trigger a greater comprehension of each individual component, and We will continue the improvements within energy (cf. FSC®) the value of obtaining the right certifications -efficiency, and initiate new tests to further rewithin the industry. duce our consumption. 16 17 e4 Economy Anti-corruption Ending note HORN is strongly opposed to, do not accept and Based on our 2016 Communication on Progress, have zero tolerance for corruption, extortion or we have summarized and defined some of our bribery in any form. This is our current principle actions already taken towards the ten principles, –And will be in the future as well. including our goals for the coming year, to continually improve the integration of the UN Global Progress: Compact into our business, strategy, culture and daily operations. Leadership on Code of Conduct As a final objective we aim to address our goals In our 2016 Communication on Progress we for contributing to the 17 sustainable Developplanned to set up a Code of Conduct for all our ment Goals in our 2018 Communication on P partners, as the main method for supplier control, and an active reflection of our antiWe commit to share this information with our corruption standpoint. stakeholders, through our communication As already mentioned, we found that we need to channels. take active leadership of our Code of Conduct, to ensure that the end-result includes the right management systems, which can implement relevant actions throughout the our value chain. Anti-corruption is still secured upstream through the procurement of only FSC®-certified wood. Goals: Leadership on Code of Conduct Looking at our selected E4-Economy focal points we are aware that we need to take more proactive actions to secure anti-corruption. This includes managerial control, risk assessments and a robust commitment formulated in both internal and external policies. We expect all of our employees and partners to embrace our anti-corruption standpoint, which will be included as a main focal point in our Code of Conduct to be signed during 2018. Both internal and external the anti-corruption principle will become an active part of our HORN Academy, as a method to educate about our policies and guide our partners in their daily actions. Internally the Code of Conduct is meant as a guideline for our employees to ensure, that we as an organisational group act according to high ethical standards and not least live up to our value system, which is governing the way we choose to present our self in all our actions. 18 19 HORN Value system Respect We acknowledge all individuals and respect their difference –We trust this to be the approach for general work happiness. Trustworthiness We are loyal, honest, engaged and dedicated -We believe this make us trustworthy in all of our relationships. Development We are developing our business and products in relation to future market requirements –We are certain that these will be transparent responsibility. Cooperation We have a mutual aim to make HORN the preferred countertop solution within the industry -We know that the method for this, is cooperation both internal and external with our partners. Commitment We feel, live and own the HORN identity. 20
