GLOBAL COMPACT END OF YEAR COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORT 2016 TactiX Strategic Consulting Building No.19, Badr Al Deen Zaza Street Weibdeh, P.O. Box 1989 Amman 11118 Jordan Contact Person Mr. Nasif Khoury Founder/Partner Tel: + 962 6 5689820 n.khoury@tactixconsulting.com |Page1 Statement of Commitment TactiX Strategic Consulting has always strived to maintain ideal working conditions, and has put in effect several actions that ensure employee productivity, as well as client satisfaction. Participating in the United Nation’s Global Compact allowed the company to align its own vision with the Global Compact’s 10 Principles seamlessly, and has now driven it to make further improvements both internally and externally. This year, following in the steps of the past years, we made further improvements at TactiX Strategic Consulting to address not only the vision of the Global Compact, but also that of the United Nation and the Millennium Development Goals, and we will continue to do our utmost to maintain eligibility for Global Compact. Having been exposed to the global market, as TactiX became a member in the Action Global Communications Network, maintaining transparency and equal rights has become paramount. And ever since we started abiding by the regulations listed in the Global Compact’s Communication on Progress, we have been able to maintain the loyalty of our employees and clients alike. We are pleased to present you with this year’s report, which reflects the progress we made in observing the Global Compact’s ten principles, and the way they have positively influenced our corporate strategies and daily dealings. Yours truly, Nasif Khoury Founding Partner at TactiX Strategic Consulting |Page2 About TactiX Strategic Consulting Established in 2003, TactiX Strategic Consulting has established a firm footing in the Jordanian market, providing elite marketing and public relations services to its clients to effectively articulate their products and services to targeted audiences. TactiX is paving the way to success with its leading services and gaining recognition through awards, like the Jordan Top 30 Fast Growth award and its ranking among the Arabia 500. It has also become a member in the Action Global Communications Network, a global communications collective offering TactiX clients any services they may require with their affiliates anywhere around the world. TactiX’s clients are specialized in a number of social and economic sectors including the automotive, aviation, entertainment, Information Technology, Non-governmental organizations, industrial groups, education, tourism, banks, sports and retail. Through its diverse operations, TactiX seeks to add a stroke of ingenuity to businesses by providing insights and improving strategic approaches to clients’ public relations and marketing operations by simply helping them transform their ideas into action. We are committed to adding new life to local industries and broadening our horizons by tapping into new local and regional markets. TactiX’s success goes hand-in-hand with our clients’ success, making us determined to comprehensively enhance their communications. |Page3 HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLES TactiX finds it important to uphold all articles of The Universal Declaration of Human Rights as it contains guidelines that guarantee the rights of all are duly recognized. It is incumbent upon us to do our best to ensure these articles are globally recognized and implemented. Equality for All Assessment, Policy and Goals In Article 2 of The Universal Declaration of Human Rights, it states: Everyone is entitled to all the rights and freedoms set forth in this Declaration, without distinction of any kind, such as race, colour, sex, language, religion, political or other opinion, national or social origin, property, birth or other status. Furthermore, no distinction shall be made on the basis of the political, jurisdictional or international status of the country or territory to which a person belongs, whether it be independent, trust, non-self-governing or under any other limitation of sovereignty. TactiX's administration does its utmost to ensure the unconditional respect of all its employees, regardless of their religious and/or ethnic background. We have adopted numerous measures and company policies to guarantee the integral preservation of all our employees. Implementation Quality interactions and collaborations with our employees are the backbone of TactiX’s operations and is what guarantees we always work collectively while each can give his/her personal input. A way in which we fulfill this is by organizing a weekly gathering on the last day of every work week. All employees join in to participate in discussions on current political and social developments and various aspects of culture. Since we have a team that is comprised of diverse nationalities and adheres to different religions, we assure the highest sense of dialogue is achieved and encourage mutual understanding among all. Since TactiX's managers also take part in these weekly gatherings, we are able to effectively eliminate any problems or disagreements that may occur. Once controversy arises, the administration ensures mutual respect is maintained and that any differences do not infringe the rights of coworkers. |Page4 Measurement of Outcomes All issues are dealt with directly by senior management. If one of our employees is subjected to any form of discrimination, they can meet with the administration to discuss the matter in person or via email. The individual's identity is left anonymous and the perpetrator will be reprimanded and given a chance to review his/her conduct. If misconduct persists, the wrongdoer will receive a warning and possible termination of employment as a final solution. These are precautionary measures incorporated by our administration; however, no such events have occurred at TactiX requiring the utilization of such procedures. On another note, these meetings have positively impacted our administrative policies by offering helpful insight and gleaning employee opinions. Employees have the liberty to discuss company policies and voice their opinions, while the senior administration looks into any concerns and makes changes where appropriate. TactiX’s Social Security Policy Assessment, Policy and Goals TactiX currently offers social security to all its employees, regardless of their nationality. Upon the activation of employment contracts, employees are automatically registered to benefit from social security. Implementation After employee approval, appropriate deductions are made on a monthly basis which will be compensated by the individual during future periods of unemployment. All deduction details are made transparent and any additional information will be disclosed to the employee upon request. Measurement of Outcomes As all employee bank checks are processed and certified by TactiX's senior management, the opportunity arises to periodically review and assess social security and income tax deductions made prior to the issuance of salaries. |Page5 LABOUR PRINCIPLES Labour principles are the key arteries of any corporation and should be preserved to assure the company maintains a reputation of transparency, able to account for and justify all its measures to concerned parties. Honesty in Pay Scales Assessment, Policy and Goals TactiX is determined to exercise honesty in all its dealings and assure a fair deal is given to all employees. By upholding such values and giving due appreciation to its members of staff, TactiX hopes to set an example for other corporations and secure deals of mutual benefit. Pay scales are predetermined by TactiX and the minimum offer is given and made clear in the employment contract before it is put into effect. Implementation While conducting interviews, TactiX’s senior management attentively listens to all the interviewee’s stated qualifications while viewing his/her curriculum vitae for accuracy. After the administration determines that the employee’s background qualifies for the posted position, it suggested that the employee states his/her desired salary. However, if the stated salary is below the minimum offered by TactiX, the interviewer will revert with a counter offer that is more appropriate. Measurement of Outcomes Our current policy has proven useful as it promotes trust and sets a good first impression for our employees. All hired employees know that they are appreciated at TactiX and the current method has contributed greatly to lowering turnover and guaranteeing strong performance from the team. Moreover, the performance of all our employees is reviewed on a yearly basis and bonuses are measured and given according to work ethics seen, as well as the quality of their work. Health Insurance Assessment, Policy and Goals Health insurance is the fundamental right of all workers after the threemonth probation period is completed. Tactix informs its employees of this during interviews and puts it into effect during the initial week after the probation period. |Page6 Implementation After employees are briefed on the full medical coverage offered by TactiX, now including elective cancer insurance as well, senior management sends them a follow-up email and arranges a meeting to discuss the salary deductions that will be made. With the employee’s approval, the management informs its insurance company for the periodic filing and registration of a new worker. TactiX then presents the new staff member with a yearly insurance card, a directory of doctors insured through the company and health insurance applications. The employee may request new applications when needed and will be given additional ones at the earliest possible date. Measurement of Outcomes TactiX’s administration ensures that all staff members have enough insurance applications and any individual who may be suffering from a chronic illness is checked on every two weeks to guarantee they are getting the best medical treatment. TactiX also recommends reputed doctors who have dealt directly with current and past employees. Annual Gatherings and Retreats Assessment, Policy and Goals In order to foster a winning company culture and strengthen bonds with the employees, the administration conducts recreational outings on a yearly basis. This is also an effective way of relieving stress accumulated over the year and is something many of our employees look forward to participating in. TactiX also makes sure to celebrate the birthdays of its employees has recently increased the number of its team building activities. Implementation Our senior management arranges the recreational activities that may also be suggested by any of the employees. After discussing it with our employees person-to-person or via email, TactiX arranges the outings according to a majority vote. A reminder is sent to the team on the scheduled outing and advice is given on suitable attire to wear. Birthday celebrations have now become part of the company culture, where each employee gets to celebrate his or her birthday with cake and a small gathering before the work day is up. |Page7 And team building activities are now taking place more often, as they not only help the team work better together, but also help relieve the daily buildup of stress. Measurement of Outcomes N/A Biometric Time Attendance Clock Assessment, Policy and Goals To guarantee the prompt attendance of all employees and also being in correlation with our high transparency policy, TactiX has recently installed a biometric time attendance clock. Implementation TactiX administration has set up a biometric time attendance clock adjacent to the main entrance; employees are given fingerprint identifications and are required to identify themselves upon their arrival and departure. Measurement of Outcomes Employees who fail to honor our prompt attendance policy are given a verbal warning to point out the unacceptability of their lateness. Employees who continue to fail to abide, receive a written warning from the administration and are informed of the critical importance of their prompt attendance at the office. As a final course of action, non-adherents will have their employment contract terminated. The policy is effective and necessary in guaranteeing that both the employer and employee benefit mutually. Abolition of Child Labour Assessment, Policy and Goals TactiX’s senior management has taken on the responsibility of ensuring that no individual below 18 years of age is hired. This is articulated in the ILO Core Conventions, under Article 11 which stipulates: Only adult able-bodied males who are of an apparent age of not less than 18 and not more than 45 years may be called upon for forced or compulsory labour. |Page8 Implementation TactiX periodically reviews all received résumés before contacting qualified individuals for interviews. Before putting employment contracts into effect, we request general identification and references to verify the eligibility of our staff members. Measurement of Outcomes If any information regarding the above article is breached, Article 10 of the ILO Core Conventions is reviewed for possible conditions of continued employment. If no options are internationally recognized, the worker’s contract is immediately terminated. ENVIRONMENTAL PRINCIPLES The world has been mankind’s adobe since the beginning of time; therefore, it is essential to maintain a clean environment for future generations to flourish in. TactiX applies several measures to help maintain a clean world. Paper Recycling Assessment, Policy and Goals TactiX has introduced a recycling policy over the course of the past six months helping us create a paper-lite office. TactiX has taken the additional step by incorporating an environmental reminder on all its outgoing emails which reads: Please consider the environment before printing this e-mail. Implementation The TactiX team brainstormed ways to reduce their carbon footprint and help set a positive example for other companies. After deciding that paper recycling would be the most suitable initiative to apply at the office, senior management contacted the Jordan Holland Recycling Company and situated three recycling bins around the company. Over the past six months, we have recycled over 80 kilograms of paper, including newspapers, magazines and internal printings. The environmentally friendly reminder attached at the bottom of all outgoing emails helps encourage all clients and affiliates to be more conservative with their paper consumptions. |Page9 Measurement of Outcomes After each pickup made by the Jordan Holland Recycling Company, TactiX’s management inquires about the weight of the recycled paper and congratulates its employees on the efforts made. Regarding the emails, employees have been contacted by their clients and media partners, asking how they can join the initiative. Hence, we have continued these measures as a result of the great success seen. Reusing Coffee Grounds as Fertilizer Assessment, Policy and Goals TactiX seeks to ensure a green environment and constantly looks for ways to ensure a healthy work atmosphere. After recently learning that coffee grounds can be used as mulch for plants, the TactiX team made special arrangements to replace soil in flowerpots situated in and around the office. Implementation TactiX’s administration informed employees of the new idea and requested that they avoid disposing of used coffee grounds. After sufficient amounts were collected, the TactiX team allocated time one morning to replant all flowerpots. Measurement of Outcomes During the initial month after the plants’ fertilization, many grew significantly to further beautify our offices and purify the air. Following the project’s great success, TactiX’s senior administration admonished its clients and partners to employ the same measures in efforts to help them reduce their carbon footprints and promote an environmentally friendly work atmosphere. Other Environmentally Friendly Campaigns & Initiatives Assessment, Policy and Goals It is TactiX’s goal to commit itself to any local or international projects which strive to help mankind reduce their carbon footprint on the earth. We are constantly scouting out new opportunities and helping others realize their importance in the community and the significance of ensuring a greener tomorrow. In the upcoming year, TactiX is hoping to encourage its employees to collectively participate in its very own anti-littering campaign, as well as its energy saving initiative. | P a g e 11 Implementation TactiX is seeking to underline the importance of a clean environment among staff members and for this reason we are scheduling a green initiative next year for all employees to take part in. The senior management is assessing areas that have substantial amounts of litter and will inform employees of the new project once determined. TactiX is part of numerous environmentally friendly initiatives and continuously corresponds with other activists to get the latest news and learn of additional ways to be of service. This year TactiX has distributed “turn me off” stickers around the office light switches to remind employees to turn off the lights in rooms they aren’t using. They have also been instructed to turn their computer screens off once they have stepped away from their computers to decrease electricity consumption. Measurement of Outcomes The project has not yet been executed, however, after its completion; our senior management will assess the progress made and garner feedback from employees. We are hoping to keep up the momentum in the coming year with the organization of similar projects, making Jordan a safer and cleaner place for all to benefit from. TactiX has joined several initiatives through its strong relations with its partners and clients, but we are hoping to take the lead this year through our promising campaigns and initiatives. As for the energy saving initiative, a marked decrease in the company’s electricity bill has been noticed, which means the employees have indeed adhered to the new, environmentally-friendly rules. #ICanWeCan Cancer Awareness Campaign Assessment, Policy and Goals #ICanWeCan was an online cancer awareness campaign held by the King Hussein Cancer Foundation (KHCF) and TactiX has decided to assist the Foundation in spreading awareness about the campaign. TactiX is a firm believer in the importance of this cause and the effect of such a campaign on communities, so it went above and beyond in implementing the campaign to get maximum exposure. | P a g e 11 Implementation TactiX helped promote the campaign through its online platforms using the hashtag #ICanWeCan, and has posted often during the campaign to create a buzz around the issue in support of KHCF. Measurement of Outcomes TactiX received positive feedback during and after the campaign concluded. Our employees and partners made sure to share the posts and to use the hashtag #ICanWeCan, maximizing the effect of the campaign. KHCF engagement with cause supporters showed an increase, and TactiX received heartfelt thanks from the foundation for the support it offered. Pink October Assessment, Policy and Goals TactiX recognizes the importance of awareness campaigns as it helps educate our employees and the local community on important issues. With this in mind, TactiX has arranged a breast cancer awareness campaign known as Pink October to underline the causes and treatments for breast cancer. Implementation Each year, TactiX organizes activities in relation to the international Pink October campaign to encourage Jordanian women to learn more about the illness that affects 1 in every 8 women worldwide. All employees wear a pink ribbon in solidarity with breast cancer patients, while our social media department posts informative articles on symptoms and treatments of breast cancer via online platforms. Measurement of Outcomes TactiX’s social media experts closely monitor all online comments and promptly reply to any inquiries from visitors, hence, giving them sound advice and referring them to reputed doctors for professional consultation. Movember Assessment, Policy and Goals In continuation to the Pink October campaign, TaciX has taken concrete actions to spread awareness about prostate cancer during a similar campaign for men known internationally as Movember. The campaign seeks | P a g e 12 to highlight the main causes of prostate cancer and preventive measures that can reduce risks. Implementation During the month-long campaign, our social media department collaborated closely to ensure enriched content was posted on TactiX’s social networking platforms including Facebook and Twitter. Updates revolved around measures to be taken to avoid risks and ways that cancer patients can effectively combat the disease. Measurement of Outcomes The promotional gifts distributed showed favorable responses and wholeheartedly motivated our partners to support the month-long awareness campaign. Our online promotion via social media channels also recorded significant activity from viewers. The international campaign is one that we will continue to uphold as it thoroughly addresses the seriousness of the debilitating disease and ways to effectively reduce its risks. ANTI-CORRUPTION PRINCIPLES Commitment to the enforcement of all relevant local and international laws, with emphasis on anti-corruption laws is something we strive daily to defend. Corruption has always been a topic full of jargon and grips many parts of our society; the development new schemes are almost as quick as the rapid cascade of technological advancements seen today. TactiX is sincerely dedicated to preventing corruption in any way possible. Single Person Accountability Policy Assessment, Policy and Goals TactiX has incorporated a single accountability policy to properly derail any attempts made at embezzlement and guarantee a corruption-free atmosphere at the office. Our accountant is the only one with access to our company’s safe, giving him the sole privilege of accessing TactiX’s internal finances. Implementation Many methods of implementation are carried out in specific ways to safeguard against any possible accusations that would later sow seeds of mistrust among our employees. Firstly, a single copy of keys is given to the accountant with the exact amount of money recorded. Secondly, a record is kept by the senior administration of any withdrawals made and reasons behind each deduction; deposits are also tracked. Additionally, the money is | P a g e 13 periodically counted at the end of every week to assure that exact amounts are in accordance with financial records. Measurement of Outcomes TactiX annually administers internal and external auditors to verify that our financial statements are free of any misconduct, waste, or fraud. Any ambiguity is addressed with due measure; our senior management arranges an appointment with our auditors and our accountant to ensure there is mutual understanding in our transactions and all audits are in harmony with our internal records. If any acts of corruption are made apparent, legal action is taken and the utmost levels of professionalism are maintained. No Bribery Policy Assessment, Policy and Goals TactiX guarantees that higher management and all other employees staunchly uphold this internal principle guideline. Any gifts received with a nominal value exceeding 40 USD are not accepted and all employees are prohibited from accepting any form of cash. This policy has been active since the first year of our establishment, and is a key pillar which underlines our honest and trustworthy reputation. Implementation Over the years, our adopted methods of implementation have proved fruitful. We have requested that all our employees inform TactiX's senior management of gifts received which must have a clear and legitimate basis for its presentation. Moreover, all dinners and arrangements for customers or others are required to have a clear and appropriate reason and take place openly. Measurement of Outcomes TactiX has never been involved in any sort of legal cases related to bribery or other acts of corruption. Our auditors can support our claims as our General Manager receives a detailed yearly report of all our incoming and outgoing financial transactions. All audits are frequently reviewed by higher management to ensure TactiX’s profits can be accounted for and no form of bribery has occurred. We are also notified throughout the course of the year of any suspicious activity. | P a g e 14 Active Involvement in Anti-Corruption Campaigns Assessment, Policy and Goals Our senior management always seeks to participate in anti-corruption initiatives whether locally or regionally. TactiX is a strong advocate of anticorruption awareness and tries to devise additional strategies to ensure the highest levels of trust are achieved at the company. Implementation During our weekly company gatherings (mentioned previously in Human Rights Principles) we constantly stress the hazards of corruption and continually emphasize that ethics is by far more valuable than any amount of money. TactiX further encourages its employees to bring forth any attempted acts of bribery made by clients and affiliates. Measurement of Outcomes If any information surfaces of an attempted bribe, a timely investigation is conducted and can result in the cancellation of a client's contract; however, no such incident has occurred over the past year. Our employees have learned to appreciate strong moral value while working with us, and ones who have pursued other jobs have informed us of their strong conviction to preserving such values. | P a g e 15
