Šiaulių Bankas AB Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2016 CLIENTS 22 QUALITY SERVICES 22 Contents ACCESSIBILITY OF SERVICES QUALITY OF CLIENT SERVICE 22 23 RESPONSIBLE INFORMATION DELIVERY 24 CODE OF GOOD BANKING PRACTICE 24 PRINCIPLES OF THE BANK SOCIAL ACTIVITIES 3 ENVIRONMENT 25 A WORD FROM THE CEO 4 CONTRIBUTION TO ENERGY EFFICIENCY IN THE ON THE REPORT 5 COUNTRY 25 ON THE BANK 6 USE OF RESOURCES 26 VALUE CHAIN 12 VEGETATION SUSTAINABILITY INITIATIVE 28 INVOLVEMENT OF INTERESTED PARTIES 12 COMMUNITIES AND THE GENERAL PUBLIC 29 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY ACTIVITIES AND OBJECTIVES OF REDUCING DIFFERENCES BETWEEN REGIONS 29 THE BANK 13 PROMOTION OF ENTREPRENEURSHIP 30 PERSONNEL 13 STRENGTHENING LINKS BETWEEN BUSINESS AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITIES AND DIVERSITY 14 STUDIES 31 REMUNERATION 14 UPHOLDING TRADITIONS AND PRESERVING EMPLOYER AND EMPLOYEE RELATIONSHIP 15 CULTURE 32 FEEDBACK REDUCING SOCIAL EXCLUSION 33 15 BASKET OF ADDITIONAL BENEFITS ANTI-CORRUPTION 34 16 WORK ENVIRONMENT ANTI-MONEY LAUNDERING 35 18 TRAINING AND PERSONAL DEVELOPMENT 19 PROMOTING EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT 20 ETHICAL WORKPLACE 21 2  HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLES OF THE BANK Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and SOCIAL ACTIVITIES Principle 2 make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses.  LABOUR Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective Šiaulių Bankas AB (hereinafter referred to as the Bank ) has been bargaining; participating in the international United Nations (UN) Global Compact initiative since 2008. Principle 4 the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; In its activities, the Bank observes the Global Compact’s ten Principle 5 the effective abolition of child labour; and principles: assumes and complies with the ongoing commitment to strengthen its socially responsible activities and to observe the Principle 6 the elimination of discrimination in respect of principles of  human rights,  employee rights,  environment employment and occupation. and  anti-corruption.  ENVIRONMENT Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8 undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9 encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies.  ANTICORRUPTION Principle 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. 3 A WORD FROM THE CEO For us, the year 2016 was marked out with records: we achieved the maximum profits throughout our lifetime and demonstrated excellent key performance indicators. Along with these results, it is especially gratifying that last year we became the second bank in Lithuania according to the service quality; our attention has been focused on the given area for the last few years. It is important that last year, investors showed confidence in us the Bank's shares were among the top 10 most-traded securities in the Baltic countries. Also, we numbered amongst the top 20 Nasdaq Baltic Market Awards in Vilnius, which recognize excellence in communication and investor relations of the listed companies. Our success was accompanied by an international rating. Moody's Investors Service rating agency upgraded the ratings for our Bank in 2016. Our Bank was ranked the Best Bank in Lithuania 2016 by Global Finance Magazine and The Banker. We competed for The Growth Strategy of the Year Award at the grand final of the European Business Awards (EBA) international competition. These achievements further oblige us to be socially responsible. Being a member of our society, we make an impact on others, and our duty is to ensure that this impact is positive. Hence we will seek to continue to be a workplace where every employee is valued and socially safe. Our goal is to be the bank on which each client can rely and in which each client can duly receive appropriate services. We will improve our efforts to protect the environment in our daily activities. We will compete fairly and operate in a transparent and sustainable manner. We are aware that this is the only way to be useful for Lithuanian society and the whole country's economy. Thank you for reading our Corporate Social Responsibility Report which introduces our activities carried out by us in accordance with the principles of the UN Global Compact. Vytautas Sinius Chief Executive Officer 4 ON THE REPORT Since 2010, the Bank has been submitting its annual social responsibility reports which are publicly available on the Bank's website www.sb.lt under Social Responsibility and on the UN Global Compact website. The Bank's Corporate Social Responsibility Report for JanuaryDecember 2016 is presented herein. The report contains data obtained from the Bank's internal documents and the staff responsible for the areas mentioned in the report. This report has not been audited. GOAL To prepare a Corporate Social Responsibility Report for 2017 including the Bank subsidiaries, for the financial services sector in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Guidelines. 5 VALUES MISSION Our roots are intertwined. In ON THE BANK  Confidence providing financial services, we OPERATING ACTIVITIES  Professionalism create prosperity of Lithuanian people and business and grow  Respect together with them.  Responsibility Founded in 1992, the Bank is a rapidly growing and stable financial institution that maintains a diversified shareholder base spanning Lithuanian and foreign shareholders, including the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development that holds 18 percent shares LONGSTANDING BANKING PARTNERS : of the Bank. The Bank aims to be a reliable, flexible, and attentive financial partner European Bank for Reconstruction which attaches the utmost importance to the country growth and Development potential and prosperity of Lithuanian population and business. PRIORITY AREAS European Investment Bank  Consumer financing  Financing of small and midsize businesses  Saving and investing European Investment Fund  Daily banking services 6 ON THE BANK ON THE BANK SHAREHOLDERS MANAGEMENT OF THE BANK The number of the Bank shareholders was 3 401 as at  General Meeting of Shareholders 31 December 2016.  Supervisory Council, a collegial supervisory body MAJOR SHAREHOLDERS :  Management Board, a collegial executive body  Chief Executive Officer, the sole management body Shareholder Percentage of shares, % European Bank for Reconstruction and Development 18,24 Clients of Swedbank AS (Estonia) 9,41 Invalda INV AB 6,79 Gintaras Kateiva 5,82 For more information, visit the Bank website www.sb.lt: “About Bank“ –> “To Bank‘s Investors“ –> “Information about Shares“ –> “Major Shareholders“. 7 Life insurance company Bonum Šiaulių banko investicijų Publicum UAB valdymas UAB ON THE BANK life insurance investment management SUBSIDIARIES OF THE BANK DIRECTLY CONTROLLED SUBSIDIARIES * SB Lizingas UAB Šiaulių Banko Lizingas UAB INDIRECTLY CONTROLLED SUBSIDIARIES * financial leasing, consumer credits financial leasing and an operating lease Sandworks UAB Apželdinimas UAB management of mmovable landscaping, environmental property management Šiaulių banko turto fondas UAB SBTF UAB management of immovable management and administration of SUBSIDIARIES HELD FOR SALE * property movable and immovable property  Trade Project UAB  Investicinio turto valdymas UAB  ŽSA 1 UAB, ŽSA 2 UAB, ŽSA 3 UAB, ŽSA 4 UAB, ŽSA 5 UAB and Žalgirio sporto arena UAB Minera UAB Pavasaris UAB management of immovable development of an apartment block property residential area * As at 31 December 2016 8 ON THE BANK ON THE BANK BANKING SERVICES KEY PERFORMANCE RESULTS  Opening and administration of accounts in euros and foreign Sustainable activities of the Bank, targeted development, and excellent currency for Lithuanian and foreign clients performance in recent years allow the Bank to contribute significantly to the country's economic growth.  Money transfers in euros and foreign currency to accounts in In 2016 the Bank Group earned unaudited net profit of EUR 43.7 million, banks operating in Lithuania and abroad which was 83 percent more than in 2015. Profitability was significantly affected by the results of atypical performance: the total return index  Collection of utility charges and other fees exceeded 26 percent and the cost-income ratio exceeded 42 percent. The Bank Group’s loan and lease portfolio increased by 13 percent over  E-invoice service, periodical and contingent payments 12 months and exceeded EUR 1 billion at the end of the year. The deposit portfolio grew by 4 percent during the year and amounted nearly to EUR  Account management through online banking 1.5 billion at the end of December 2016. During the year, significant improvement in asset quality indicators was  Mobile banking services noted: the ratio of non-performing exposures to assets decreased from 7.5 to 4.7 percent. The cost of risk amounted to 0.7 percent in 2016,  Issue and administration of payment cards which was almost 3 times less than in 2015. The Bank’s financial statements, profitability ratios, prudential standards,  Extension of various short-term and long-term credits asset quality indicators and ratings are published on the Bank website www.sb.lt: About Bank -> To Bank‘s Investors -> Financial  Trading of foreign currencies Statements, Ratios, and Prospectuses  Saving and investing services . 9 ON THE BANK BANK SHARES The Bank's shares are listed on the Baltic Official List on Nasdaq stock exchange. The Bank won the 2nd place in the Member of the Year awards at the annual Nasdaq Baltic Market Awards ceremony. INVESTOR RELATIONS MEASUREMENT The Bank provides detailed information the Bank statements have been well received: the annual financial statement and annual report received 17.93 points out of 20. 10  Kaunas Chamber of Commerce, Industry and Crafts ON THE BANK  Klaipėda Chamber of Commerce, Industry and Crafts  Šiauliai Chamber of Commerce, Industry and Crafts ASSOCIATED MEMBERSHIP  Panevėžys Chamber of Commerce, Industry and Crafts  Klaipėda Association of Industrialists  UN Global Compact International Initiative  Šiauliai Association of Industrialists  Society for Worldwide Interbank Financial Telecommunication  Akmenė District Entrepreneurs' Association (SWIFT)  Kelmė District Entrepreneurs' Association  VISA Inc. international payment card organization  Mažeikiai Entrepreneurs' Association  MasterCard Worldwide payment card organization  Tauragė Region Entrepreneurs' Association  Lithuanian Banking Association  Telšiai District Entrepreneurs' Association  Nasdaq Vilnius AB Stock Exchange  Šilalė District Entrepreneurs' Association  Lithuanian Financial Brokers Association  ISACA  Lithuanian Business Employers' Confederation  Human Resources Professionals Association  Lithuanian Association of Accountants and Auditors  Vilnius Chamber of Commerce, Industry and Crafts 11 INVOLVEMENT OF VALUE CHAIN INTERESTED PARTIES We strive to provide high quality and innovative financial services to Ways of Self Lithuanian citizens and businesses. Involvement Assessment Personnel  Social initiatives  Opportunities to submit and implement proposals  Possibility of a report to a compliance officer  Annual performance review discussion Suppliers + Partners Shareholders  Regular reporting  Presentation of performance results to investors Clients  Surveys of client service quality  Communication in social networks  Bank website Suppliers and partners Regulatory  Regular reporting bodies  Participation in meetings Communities  Support and sponsorship projects and the public  Educational activities Associated  A corporate social responsibility report to the Clients Investors organizations Global Compact Good Satisfactory Bad 12 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY ACTIVITIES AND OBJECTIVES OF THE BANK PERSONNEL The Bank aims to improve the quality of life in Lithuania and to The Bank had 722 employees as at 31 December 2016 promote sustainable economic development and environment. (719 employees as at 31 December 2015 respectively). To this end, focus is given to the following areas that can be The Group‘s companies (excluding subsidiaries held for sale) had positively affected by the Bank: 829 employees as at 31 December 2016 (861 employees as at 31 December 2015 respectively).  personnel  clients  environment  communities and the general public 13 Bank Employees by Age & Sex * 2% PERSONNEL Above 61 1% between 51 and 60 12 % 3% between 41 and 50 22 % 4% EQUAL OPPORTUNITIES AND DIVERSITY between 31 and 40 28 % As a socially responsible employer, the Bank is guided by the 8% principles of equality and diversity and grants equal career up to 30 16 % opportunities for people regardless of their age, sex, ethnicity, 4% religion, etc. Female Male REMUNERATION Requirements followed by the Bank while establishing and paying the remuneration to employees as well as bonuses and other University education has been acquired by 627 employees, disbursements designated to employees for their activity results postsecondary education, special secondary education, and including other provided benefits are set out in the Remuneration secondary education by 64, 14 and 17 employees respectively *. Policy. Bank Employees by Education * Principles of the Remuneration Policy:  internal justice positions equivalent in terms of responsibility 87 % 9% are subject to similar remuneration 2% 2%  external competitiveness a level of payable remuneration in University College Special secondary Secondary the market allows attracting, motivating and maintaining required employees * As at 31 December 2016 14 FEEDBACK In order to increase efficiency of activity management and to achieve the best possible performance and employee engagement PERSONNEL and satisfaction, the Bank conducts private conversations with its employees once a year in accordance with the procedure for the annual performance review discussion. EMPLOYER AND EMPLOYEE RELATIONSHIP During such conversations, the managers and the employees: The Bank upholds sustainable and long-term working relationship in  consider the works in progress and the projects in prospect creating a culture which is based on shared values and directed towards continuous improvement by creating a safe and favourable  identify employee competencies required for a successful work environment. development and values-based behaviour Almost 30 percent of the personnel has been employed with the  impart expectations for employees, managers, and the Bank Bank for more than 10 years* .  discuss career opportunities and educational needs Employee Turnover in the Bank 2016 13.80 % 9.70 % 2015 10.80 % 6.80 % General staff turnover Voluntary turnover * As at 31 December 2016 15 PERSONNEL BASKET OF ADDITIONAL BENEFITS The basket of additional benefits and social guarantees for both fulltime and part-time employees includes the following :  quarterly bonuses for achieving professional goals set by the Bank, its branch, and individual employees  deferred annual bonuses for the employees whose professional activities and decisions can have a significant impact on the risk assumed by the Bank  sales promotion scheme allowing the Bank to determine and motivate the best employees of the branch network  one-off premiums granted to employees on occasions of personal celebrations and on the events significant for the Bank  annual summer sports and leisure holiday  promotion of corporate basketball, volleyball, and go-kart racing teams  free annual vaccination against influenza  the first 2 days of sick leave for employees are paid by the Bank at 100 percent of salary  reimbursement of a portion of sports club membership fees  employee hardship and disaster relief 16 PERSONNEL In 2016, the following two exclusive benefits were added to the basket :  Let‘s Save Together supplementary pension scheme: an opportunity of supplementary pension accumulation in which both the employee and the employer add their parts to the contribution;  Thank You motivation scheme for employees to motivate one another: an opportunity to assess the merits of colleagues (involvement, support, efficiency, etc.) by points electronic apples which can be exchanged for prizes. New benefits further increased the attractiveness of the Bank as an employer and employee involvement and initiative in strengthening the team. 17 PERSONNEL WORK ENVIRONMENT A position in the Bank allows combining professional and personal aspirations and needs: Number of the Bank Percentage of the In 2016 employees Bank employees paternity leave was granted to 7 1% childcare leave was granted to 94 13 % The Bank aims to create safe and healthy workplaces by upgrading and restoring the facilities and updating equipment on a regular basis. For this purpose, the amount of EUR 14,785.06 was allocated in 2016. The Bank continually invests in technology which facilitates and speeds up the work. In 2016, the Bank intensively implemented the Simply & Easily project whereby internal business processes were automated, standardized, and made more efficient by using a modern document management system. 18 PERSONNEL TRAINING AND PERSONAL DEVELOPMENT In 2016, the Bank focused on providing the employees with every opportunity to acquire knowledge about the existing and new products of the Bank and the related changes and innovations:  12 unique internal classroom workshops were held  a new form of learning, e-training, was introduced  top managers participated in a management skills training session 19 PERSONNEL Investment in Personnel Training in the Bank 2015 2016 Education budget, EUR 67 633 100 000 Training cost per employee, EUR 100 138 In 2016, an employee of the Bank spent an average of 7.5 hours on current training. 20 ETHICAL WORKPLACE Any forms or expressions of inequality, violence, discrimination, psychological or other kinds of pressure are unacceptable at work. PERSONNEL The Bank is equipped with a corporate channel for sending anonymous messages to a compliance officer, through which any employee can anonymously report any breach of a regulatory requirement that is taking place in the Bank. PROMOTING EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT Such report is then inspected and, in case it proves out, all The Bank aims to make employees more engaged in collective work necessary steps to rectify the breach are promptly taken. on projects where they can develop themselves by exchanging ideas, knowledge, and experiences. A possibility to register suggestions or ideas in the information system of the Bank is an effective tool for promoting engagement. Employees are becoming more active in submitting their proposals with every passing year 2014 2015 2016 Total number of proposals submitted 32 42 48 whereof: implemented 7 8 15 implementation commenced prior to a proposal 4 4 1 accepted for implementation 1 5 14 under consideration 9 12 13 21 ACCESSIBILITY OF SERVICES The Bank aims to make its services accessible to all clients, regardless of their ethnicity, sex, age, place of residence, etc. CLIENTS As at 31 December 2016, clients could use the banking services within one of the most extensive branch networks in the country and via all digital channels: The Bank provides services to nearly 330 thousand private clients  209 ATMs (14 whereof were deposit-enabled ATMs) and more than 26 thousand business clients. operating in 48 locations in Lithuania  2063 terminals of Perlo paslaugos UAB throughout Lithuania QUALITY SERVICES to withdraw or deposit cash For the Bank, it is important that clients receive all the financial  SB Linija online banking system services that meet the needs of the modern market under competitive conditions. In this regard, the existing services are  Šiaulių bankas mobile application improved and new solutions are sought. The Bank Contact Center provides information to clients by e-mail, Listed below are the new major products launched in 2016 via online banking system, and by phone :  Opportunity Credit, a set of four borrowing arrangements 2015 2016  A fixed-term deposit earning additional interest Written inquiries responded to 18 230 23 669  Plans of banking services for private clients Phone calls received 59 595 74 755  Financing of innovative small and midsize businesses as well as Claims received 488 799 mid cap companies under the InnovFin EU Finance for Innovators initiative In 2016, clients were given an additional electronic option to comfortably trade in securities on the Baltic Market via the Bank's online banking system. 22 CLIENTS QUALITY OF CLIENT SERVICE In 2014, the Bank established a special Client Service Department thereby actively contributing to the quality client service standard within the Bank. Since then, the quality of service has been improving significantly with every passing year. In 2016, the Bank client service quality index became the second best among the results of all the seven Lithuanian banks researched by Dive Lietuva company. The overall client service quality index of the Bank according to the independent mystery shopper's researches conducted by Dive Lietuva research company: 2016 95.7 % 2015 90.3 % 2014 84.8 % 2013 65.3 % The Bank has set the goal to continuously improve and maintain no less than 90% value of the client service quality index. 23 CLIENTS RESPONSIBLE INFORMATION DELIVERY The Bank delivers information on changes in its activities to clients in a responsible and transparent manner using different client-tailored communication channels. The results of the Bank’s performance are published on its website www.sb.lt: On the Bank -> To Bank‘s Investors -> Financial Statements,Ratios, and Prospectuses . CODE OF GOOD BANKING PRACTICE The Bank has signed and observes the Code of Good Banking Practice. This Code is intended to uphold relationships with clients and promote good banking practices in determining the general principles and requirements for banking activities (including those which are not covered in laws) and a target behavioural pattern. The Bank adheres to confidentiality provisions in providing information about its clients. 24 ENVIRONMENT In order to preserve biodiversity and ecosystems and reduce the impact of global warming, the Bank contributes to increasing energy efficiency in the country and promotes saving energy and resources. CONTRIBUTION TO ENERGY EFFICIENCY IN THE COUNTRY The Programme for Mulit-Apartment Housing Renovation (Modernization) is one of the most important measures under implementation in Lithuania to promote energy efficiency nationwide. The Bank has been actively contributing to it since 1999 by financing renovation projects. In order to accelerate the smooth implementation of the said important program, the Bank allocated EUR 70 million of its own funds to this project in 2016 in cooperation with the European Investment Bank. Financing Of Apartment Blocks Renovation (Modernization) in 2016 Number of Total value of contracts, units projects, EUR M Preliminary approvals for the signing of loan contracts submitted 285 77 Loan contracts signed 368 97 25 ENVIRONMENT USE OF RESOURCES Paper Use of resources in the Bank is connected with a large number of internal and external printed documents. A new document management system which was intensively developed and increasingly employed throughout 2016 allows a significant reduction in the quantity of paper and means of printing whereas faster and more efficient processes account for a reduction in other resources as well. In addition, 2016 saw the creation of the digital signature infrastructure. Digital signatures will be affixed by the personnel to all internal documents. Paper Consumption in the Bank during 2013–2016 (t) 2016 42.7 2015 57.8 2014 58.3 2013 80.2 26 Vehicle Use and Fuel Consumption in 2016 ENVIRONMENT Petrol Motor vehicles, units Fuel consumption, l Owned by the Bank 31 52 950 Transport and Fuels Others 26 40 421 In order to reduce fuel consumption and exhaust atmospheric In total: 57 93 371 pollution, the Bank:  uses an electronic corporate car rental system allowing the Bank to arrange business trips in groups and employ a minimum number of cars for such business travels Motor vehicles, Fuel Diesel units consumption, l  induces to hold meetings of employees and partners working in different cities and towns in modern teleconferencing rooms Owned by the Bank 18 37 127 set up in Vilnius, Kaunas, Klaipėda and Šiauliai Others 16 27 203 In total: 34 64 330 27 ENVIRONMENT VEGETATION SUSTAINABILITY INITIATIVE In order to offset a negative impact on the environment, the Bank arranged a joint forest planting action Investment in the Future of Lithuania which involved the Bank Group and its clients in all regions of the country in 2016. The said initiative reflected the Bank‘s position that good investment was not limited to finance alone. The most valuable investment is expressed by the deeds made in assuming responsibility for the environment in which we live and which remains for future generations. The participants of the Investment in the Future of Lithuania action 2016 planted nearly 10 thousand fir, oak, and birch trees on the outskirts of Vilnius, Kaunas, Klaipėda and Šiauliai. 28 COMMUNITIES AND THE GENERAL PUBLIC REDUCING DIFFERENCES BETWEEN REGIONS The Bank seeks to promote small and midsized business (SMB) and the country's regional economic development, as well as to reduce differences between regions. One of the measures is financing of apartment blocks renovation (modernization). A large number of the projects on apartment blocks renovation are carried out in small towns. They involve project handling companies and construction contractors and create jobs in regions. Cities / Towns which Signed Most of Contracts for Financing of Apartment Blocks Renovation Projects in 2016 City / Town Number of contracts Vilnius 77 Druskininkai 76 Ignalina 68 Palanga 58 Kaunas and Klaipėda 45 per each 29 COMMUNITIES AND THE GENERAL PUBLIC PROMOTION OF ENTREPRENEURSHIP The Bank is actively involved in organizing and sponsoring conferences, seminars, and training sessions to introduce business financing opportunities to the country's SMBs or those starting their own business:  Business Financing Opportunities through the EU Instruments Today and Future Prospects, a free cycle of seminars in Alytus, Ukmergė, and Vilnius  What's Next?, a conference on creativity and future trends  The Business Development Forum 2016, etc In 2016, financial assistance was given to Mažeikiai Businessmen Association for Business Day, Utena Public Institution Business Information Center for Utena Business Nominations 2015, Šiauliai Chamber of Commerce, Industry and Crafts, the Lithuanian Free Market Institute. In 2016, the Bank started to arrange Business Espresso quarterly meetings with corporate clients in the regions, in which consultants shared their insights on relevant issues with clients:  Legal Regulatory Challenges and Prospects for Small and Midsize Businesses  How should You Attract and Retain Talents in Your Business? 30 COMMUNITIES AND THE 1 GENERAL PUBLIC STRENGTHENING LINKS BETWEEN BUSINESS AND STUDIES Traditionally, the Bank in 2016:  awarded memorial scholarships to two students of Vytautas Magnus University  participated in Career Days of educational institutions  initiated visits to the Bank for student groups 2  allowed more than 60 students to attend professional training, on either a mandatory or voluntary basis, in the Bank 1 Scholarship to a student in Finance and Banking Postgraduate Studies Program of the Faculty of Economics and Management of VMU 31 2 Scholarship to a student in Art History, Criticism and Media Studies Program of the Faculty of Arts of VMU COMMUNITIES AND THE GENERAL PUBLIC UPHOLDING TRADITIONS AND PRESERVING CULTURE As a Lithuanian capital bank, the Bank attaches great importance to communal traditions in the cities and towns and cultural life in the regions of Lithuania. In 2016, the Bank allocated over 60 thousand Euros of sponsorship, the major portion whereof was provided to communal, cultural, and sports projects :  festivals in Utena, Varėna, Panevėžys, Marijampolė, Plungė, Rokiškis, Klaipėda and other cities and towns  Šiauliai Basketball Club  Public Institution Thomas Mann Culture Center  the Lithuanian Musician Support Fund  Šiauliai Aušros Museum, etc. 32 COMMUNITIES AND THE GENERAL PUBLIC REDUCING SOCIAL EXCLUSION In order to reduce social exclusion, the Bank presented the following three Lithuanian public aid charitable organizations: the Caritas, public organization Save the Children, and the Lithuanian Samaritan Community, with 100 modern TV sets in 2016. Since 2013, in cooperation with Public Institution Geros valios projektai (Goodwill Projects), the Bank has enabled its clients:  to allocate a desired amount of money to aukok.lt social projects via online banking system  to donate by putting cash into charity boxes set in the Bank branches During 2016, the Bank raised over 1600 Euros from charity boxes. The money was transferred to Public Institution Geros valios projektai (Goodwill Projects) 33 In order to avoid potential conflicts of interest, the employees of the Bank shall submit annual Statements of Economic Interests. The Bank responsibly pays all taxes to the State of Lithuania, ANTI-CORRUPTION complies with applicable legislation, arranges and participates in competitions in a transparent manner. The Bank implements the requirements of the Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act (FATC) and the Common Reporting Standard The personnel of the Bank have committed themselves to observe (CRS). the Code of Ethics of Šiaulių bankas AB. The most important principles of the Code are as follows:  integrity  responsibility and accountability  respect for the law, individual, and human rights  fairness, objectivity and impartiality  exemplary behaviour The Code of Ethics defines the actions to be considered as unacceptable cases of corruption. 34 The existing anti-money laundering instruments are applied and the new ones are designed depending on: ANTI-MONEY LAUNDERING  the laws of the Republic of Lithuania regulating anti-money laundering and counter financing of terrorism  the legislative requirements of the FATF (Financial Action Task Force), EU, UN, US The Bank carries out anti-money laundering and counter financing of terrorism responsibilities by consistently and purposefully implementing the existing and inventing new instruments for antimoney laundering and counter financing of terrorism and by applying them in its activities:  identification of clients, client representatives, and beneficiaries  collection and verification of information on the purpose and nature of business relationships (Know Your Client Rule)  monitoring business relationships and cash transactions  identification of suspicious cash transactions and reporting them to the Financial Crime Investigation Service, etc. 35 CONTACTS Šiaulių Bankas AB Tilžės g.149, LT-76348 Šiauliai Tel.: +370 41 595 607 Fax: +370 41) 430 774 E-mail: komunikacija@sb.lt
