Moldcell Sustainability Report Communication on Progress 2012 March, 2013 1 Moldcell CEO statement 2012 was a good year for Moldcell. We managed to increase our revenue, subscriber market share and maintain the profitability index. As a company we do our best to develop telecom sector of Moldova by launching new technologies and services 4G technology, Internet at the speed of up to than 100mbps, Mobile Signature, mHealth services. All this contributes to the image of our country as highly developed in technological field. Believing that business can contribute to the creation of a world with better opportunities, Moldcell has integrated Sustainability values in its operation and growth strategies. The company is one of Moldova’s biggest promoters of sustainable business development, based on ethics and transparency. At Moldcell, we believe that only the respect and promotion of fair business will lead to the progress of the industry and of the country we operate in. More than 400 social, educational, health, youth, cultural and charity projects have been initiated or supported by the company so far, and over 600 000 children have indirectly benefited of our projects. Moldcell uses technologies for the service of the community, initiates social partnerships in key areas (education and healthcare), supports local culture and art, and has a clear pro-ecologic position. Sustainability is integrated in all the processes of Moldcell. It is part of our commitment towards our customers and the people of Moldova to provide solutions for the change of life quality into better, in terms of communication, business, entertainment and of course social issues. I invite you to get acquainted with our progresses in the sustainability and find out more about the key CSR projects implemented by Moldcell during 2012. Since 2006, Moldcell is part of the Global Compact Network in Moldova. I would like to express my continued support for the Global Compact and renew Moldcell ongoing commitment to this noble initiative and its principles. Respectfully yours, Mehmet Barkin Secen, Moldcell CEO 2 Summary: 1. Company profile …………………………………………………………………..4 2. Moldcell vision on sustainability …………………………………………………5 6 3. Impacts …………………………………………………………………………….7 4. Transparent and fair business…………………………………………………...8 5. Contribution to country digital development ……………………………………9 11 6. Contribution to country economic development ………………………………11 7. Contribution to country development. Change of mentalities ……………….12 8. Technologies for the society. SMS broadcasts ………………………………..12 9. Technologies for the society. Fundraising campaigns ………………………..13 10. Looking in the eyes of the future…………………………………………………14 17 11. Moldcell activity in international associations ………………………………….18 12. Discover the world in motion ……………………………………………………..19 13. Turning communication into art ………………………………………………….20 14. Word of gratitude ………………………………………………………………….21 3 Company profile Moldcell was established in October 1999 and began its commercial operations as the second GSM operator in Republic of Moldova on April 28, 2000, marking a new stage in the development of the mobile communications industry in the country. Moldcell has become one of the top economic agents in the country, positively influenced the development of the information infrastructure of Moldova, stimulated appearance and growth of the business sectors adjacent to telecommunications, made a substantial contribution to the state budget, as well as manifested a responsible approach towards social phenomena in Moldova and supported local cultural values. The Moldovan mobile operator is part of Swedish-Finnish telecommunications group TeliaSonera. Moldcell shareholder provides telecommunication services in the Nordic and Baltic countries, the emerging markets of Eurasia, including Russia and Turkey, and in Spain. TeliaSonera is now in 20 markets with close to 460 million inhabitants. The number of subscriptions at the end of 2012 reached 183 million. For the year 2012, TeliaSonera's net sales amounted to approximately SEK 104,898 million and TeliaSonera had 27838 employees. TeliaSonera shares are listed on the NASDAQ OMX Stockholm and Helsinki stock exchanges. TeliaSonera provides network access and telecommunication services that help people and companies communicate in an easy, efficient and environmentally friendly way. TeliaSonera creates value by focusing on delivering a world-class customer experience, securing quality in the networks and achieving a best-in-class cost structure. TeliaSonera is an international group with a global strategy, but wherever it operates it acts as a local company. In the emerging markets of Eurasia, TeliaSonera has majority holdings in leading mobile operators in Kazakhstan (Kcell), Azerbaijan (Azercell), Georgia (Geocell), Moldova (Moldcell), Tajikistan (Tcell), Uzbekistan (Ucell) and Nepal (Ncell). TeliaSonera is also a minority owner of MegaFon in Russia and Turkcell in Turkey. Moldcell’s 2G network currently covers 97% of the territory and population on Moldova’s territory. Important investments for expanding the 3G coverage were done in 2012, achieving a final result of 76% territory coverage. Also, Moldcell is the first mobile operator from Moldova to acquire and commercially launch 4G standard. By now, Moldcell has earned the trust of more than 1 million customers. The operator is represented in over 3,000 points of sale all over the country. Moldcell’s efforts have been highly appreciated by the society and the government, which is reflected in several awards the company has been receiving years in a row. Among them are The Best Tax Payer (4 years in a row), The Grand Prix for the Brand of the Year (8 years in a row). In 2012, Moldcell has been awarded SR ISO/CEI 27001:2006 certificate. Based on external audit and inspection results, it was confirmed that information security is an important objective for Moldcell. Believing that business can contribute to the creation of a world with better opportunities, Moldcell has integrated Sustainability values in its operation and growth strategies. The company is one of Moldova’s biggest promoters of sustainable business development, based on ethics and transparency. 4 Moldcell vision on sustainability Since 2012, TeliaSonera has replaced the Corporate Social Responsibility concept into a larger one – Sustainability, defining groups’ continuous efforts to work in a sustainable way, applied to all its’ operations, including Moldcell. Our sustainability work involves ensuring environmental and social sustainability along the supply chain, respecting human rights, complying with ethical business practices in all markets, improving the protection of customers’ privacy, taking care of the well-being and professional development of our employees, reducing our own carbon footprint and those of our customers, protecting children online, and supporting research related to exposure to electromagnetic fields. At the beginning of 2013, TeliaSonera also became the signatory to GCNM and all our commitments are incorporated into our group Code of Ethics and Conduct which is our fundamental document for each and every employee. “We use the term sustainability as an During 2012, TeliaSonera strengthened the umbrella term covering all our efforts to fulfill operational management of sustainability risks. our economic, environmental and social On group level, detailed risk assessment was responsibilities through responsible business conducted to ensure that it has adequate practice.” policies and procedures in place for managing material risks, and to identify areas for improvement. Together with the Danish Institute for Human Rights, a Human Rights Impact Assessment (HRIA) was conducted to analyze risks that could lead to group’s involvement in human rights violations around all the operations. Moldcell participated in the survey and is looking forward to see the findings and commit to the recommendations that will be issued later this spring. Moldcell is committed to implement another group level Policy, regarding customer data privacy Privacy Policy. We are part of big telecom operator managing significant networks and data volumes, therefore aims to ensure network integrity and data security to protect customers’ privacy. We acknowledge the concerns following legislative, administrative, license or other requirements to which we must adhere, but which may impact individual’s privacy and freedom of expression. Our group aim is to enable citizens to exchange ideas and provide tools for the development of more open societies. We strive to be the most trusted, number one choice of current and potential customers and aim to deliver high-quality and safe services that offer good value for money and contribute to our customers’ success. We strive to operate the most secure communication networks in the world by protecting our customers’ personal data and safeguarding their privacy. We take action to prevent unauthorized access to personal data, only disclosing it when required by the law. All our employees must exercise special care to prevent unauthorized disclosure or inappropriate use of company-confidential information like our customers’ personal data. 5 We aim to ensure that our sustainability management practices are constantly updated on present and future issues and developments, and that our stakeholders can play a pro-active role. Our vision is that we should:  be seen as the preferred partner in the value chain, bringing development, fostering ethical business practices, and preventing the unethical use of our products and services.  operate the most secure communication networks, protecting customers’ personal data and safeguarding their privacy.  bring value to our customers by helping them to reduce their environmental footprint through the products and services we provide, and through our own actions.  pro-actively provide accessible, reliable, balanced and transparent information on our sustainability performance to our shareholders, financiers, analysts and other interested stakeholders. 6 Impacts The impacts include those seen by our stakeholders as key to our operations, and those that we ourselves consider to be central to our business. We strives to help build a world with better opportunities and a more inclusive society. Telecommunications drive economic growth, competitiveness, transitions towards a knowledgebased society, and wider socio-economic development. Moldcell is committed to bridging the digital divide and improving the accessibility of telecom services. Ensuring environmental and social acceptability along our supply chain: Complying with ethical business practices ; Compliance with human rights and labor laws where contracted labor is used; Good occupational health and safety practices for contracted labor; Improved eco-efficiency of the equipment and devices we buy. Being a good employer: Respecting core labor rights; Occupational health and safety performance in relation to field workers and maintenance personnel; Promoting diversity, performance management and talent management. Responsibility in the market place: We are committed to enhance our work to protect our customers’ privacy; We need to provide the market with clear pricing models, balanced product information, and sound marketing practices related to net neutrality and content, and when addressing issues related to minors; We must ensure compliance with high ethical business practices in all the markets where we operate, and in dealings with all of our business partners along our value chain. Society: We understand the impacts of our activities related to human rights, freedom of expression and the right to privacy; Our activities have positive effect on socio-economic development. Our business drives growth and economic development by directly and indirectly creating job opportunities and by taxes; We understand the great potential of the technologies for creating social services and facilitating human lives and develop products and services to serve this goal; We are committed to Moldova, by offering fair pricing for the best mobile experience and being a part of the community 7 Transparent and fair business Total control of financial and fiscal reporting:  According to Sarbanes-Oxley (SOX) standards, internal control standard applied at the US stock exchange  International Standard of Financial Reporting Standard (IFRS)  Management Information system (SAP, Hyperion)  Procurement procedure Loyal competition and contribution to poverty reduction. One of biggest country investors:  MUSD 165 into the country infrastructure  MUSD 79 (end of October 2012) taxes to the state budget  14 technologies implemented for the first time in Moldova, including 4G Modern style of management and corporate culture:  TeliaSonera code of ethics and business conduct  TeliaSonera Privacy Policy  TeliaSonera Anticorruption Policy  TeliaSonera Sustanability Policy  TeliaSonera CR reporting  Global Compact Network Moldova (GCNM) code of ethics and conduct regarding fighting the most severe forms of child labor  GCNM Code of Ecologic Office “Go Green”  358 employees (53% women, 47% men; 56% between 20 and 30 years old; 65% more than 4 years of activity in the company) 8 Contribution to country digital development 1. Mobile signature Republic of Moldova is the eighth country in the world that implemented the mobile electronic identity service Mobile e-ID. It became a reality thanks to the visit of Moldovan Government representatives to the mobile operator EMT (Estonia), a sister-company of Moldcell from the group TeliaSonera. The results appeared quickly, because this service implementation was a rapid one in partnership with the Government and another mobile telephony operator. Mobile signature is the ID in our modern digital world, it is an access key to all electronic public services. Thanks to this service, people from Moldova can sign documents, reports, declarations at distance or submit applications online. There are already six e-services available for citizens as well as for economic agents, which simplify life and make the business more efficient in terms of time, resources and bureaucracy remission. On February 26, 2013, the Government of Moldova received the Best mGovernment” prize for the Mobile Signature” project in the framework of Mobile World Congress, the most prestigious event in the field of telecommunications, held in Barcelona. 2. The fastest internet 4G technology Moldcell became the first operator in Moldova to acquire 4G license (November 9, 2012) and to launch commercial services using this standard (November 16, 2012). 4G technology from Moldcell offers the fastest mobile Internet ever, with access speed of up to 100 Mbps. 4G brings numerous opportunities for the communication speed, interactivity, data transfer. Business, mass-media, but also social services (security, healthcare, education, etc.) can be developed with this technology. 9 3. First mobile solutions for health in Moldova Moldcell launched mHealth services for the benefit of the citizens, in premiere for Republic of Moldova and TeliaSonera Eurasia group. The project is carried out under the aegis of the Ministry of Healthcare of the Republic of Moldova, implemented in partnership with the Institute of Health and Medical-Social Assistance of Moldova (ISAMS), The Center for Health Policies and Studies and UNFPA Moldova. Medical assistance through SMS is an innovative concept, designed to offer to the patients the informational help they need. Thus, mHealth solutions serve as a medical assistant, simplifying the work of doctors all over the country. mHealth is addressed to 3 major categories of users: “mTreatment surveillance” addressed to patients with TB and HIV/AIDS and “mPregnancy without risks” addressed to pregnant women and young mothers (during the 42 days after delivery). mHealth services were developed and are offered free of charge by Moldcell during 2 years. mHealth project is line with UN Millennium Development Goals: • MDG 6: combating HIV/AIDS and TB; • MDG 4 and 5 – improving maternal health and reducing child mortality rates. The concept of mHealth services was initiated based on the successful experience of other countries. The studies revealed that one of the biggest barriers in the recovery of patients from certain categories is the non-compliance with the medicines regime. The usage of mobile technologies as informational assistance offers the possibility to reduce the impact of this problem. By means of prompt and continuous notification about the time to take medicines, the rate of abandoned treatments is decreasing and the rate of successful treatments increases. For example, since mHealth project was implemented in South Africa, the efficiency of the treatment of Tuberculosis and HIV/AIDS has increased from 22 – 60% to 90%. The “mHealth” services are useful, with a high degree of confidentiality, because: • patients benefit from free, reliable and personalized information service; • the monitoring of medication administration is done remotely; • the program ensures the confidentiality and protection of personal information. 10 For Tuberculosis patients, “mTreatment Surveillance”: • is a free and continuous consultation on Tuberculosis treatment through SMS; • ensures absolute recovery thanks to regular medicines administration. For pregnant women and young mothers,”mPregnancy without risks”: • ensures the delivery of information and advices about pregnancy, birth and postpartum period, as well as a schedule of visits to the doctor during the pregnancy period; • pregnant women can register in the program from their mobile phones by sending 1 an SMS to a short number. Soon they will receive simple instructions to access the program. Contribution to country economic development 1. South business regional forum 150 representatives of business, diplomatic missions, state authorities and NGO-s, among which Prime-minister and Head of EU Delegation joined this business forum which took place at a famous winery in Moldova. The potential of the Southern Development region and investment opportunities were presented at the event. 2. Potato festival Moldcell joined this initiative of the North Business Regional Agency. The festival was a premiere for Moldova, had the purpose to promote local farmers and took place in a village in the North of the country. 40 economic agents presented their products for approximately 3000 visitors. 11 Contribution to country development. Change of mentalities. 1. Anticorruption communication campaign This campaign of the Ministry of Education promoted fair and transparent knowledge evaluation while passing the exams during the summer of 2012. The campaign included 4 TV ads with social messages to fight against cheating, copying and intellectual stealing. 2. Counterfeit & piracy risks communication campaign This campaign of the National Agency of Intellectual Property has the purpose of informing the consumers about the risks of counterfeit and piracy, to support the owners’ rights and business representatives and to amplify the efforts of the authorities in preventing these phenomena. Technologies for the society. SMS broadcasts 1. UN public consultations “Your future depends on you” Moldcell supported UN campaign and performed an SMS broadcast to increase the participation of Moldovan citizens in the identification of country goals for Millennium Development Goals post 2015. Moldcell subscribers received the message: “UN Moldova invites you to log on to www.un.md/2015 and tell us what is important for you! Your future depends on you.” After the SMS broadcast, the number of visitors of the web page www.un.md/2015 increased dramatically. When the first invitation message was sent on December 21, 2012, a number of 721 visitors accessed the site. On January 23d, the second SMS was sent and, as effect 3228 visitors 12 accessed the site. Also, the quantity of responses to the post-2015 survey has tripled in one single day. 2. AIDS day The third year in a row, Moldcell supports the Ministry of Health by sending a SMS regarding International AIDS Day, with the following content: “14 000 people around the world get sick with AIDS daily. They need our support. December 1 – World AIDS Day. Info www.aids.md, 080 080 808” Technologies for the society. Fundraising campaigns Moldcell uses its technological tools for helping people in need. In 2012, Moldcell subscribers joined the following causes: • Inclusion of orphan children in family type homes: TV and radio marathon “I want to have a family. Family for children, us – for the family” at Moldova 1 TV channel. • Support for palliative care needed by the patients with cancer in final stages: Short number 9490 was open for this campaign organized by Hospice Angelus foundation. • Contribution to “Daruiesti si castigi” campaign at PRO TV channel: the lives of 4 families in need of urgent support changed for better. A total amount of almost 20 000 USD was donated by Moldcell subscribers in 2012 within fundraising campaigns. Looking in the eyes of the future 13 Looking in the eyes of the future. Education investments 1. The national project of public lectures During 2 years (2011, 2012), the Writers' Union of Moldova, in partnership with Moldcell and the Ministry of Education, organized a ”literary journey” where young people from schools all over the country had the opportunity to meet their favorite writers. It was the revival of the contact between the writers and readers, which was interrupted for 20 years, an attempt to guide young people towards moral values, free thinking, reading and creative work. Moldcell offered children from the whole country the joy and pleasure of meeting the writers, about whom they heard from books, saw on TV or read. We managed to combine successfully the authors’ desire to communicate live with their readers and children’s needs to learn about values of their country. We also managed to discover some young and talented people, with a passion for literature and real potential of growth. After two years, we achieved the following results:  71 meetings with children and adolescents in schools, gymnasiums, lyceum, summer camps from all regions of the country;  Almost 100 writers participated in meeting with students;  Over 3000 images, witnesses of the literary marathon are available in the project archive;  ”Street of roses”, the debut volume of Diana Frumosu was published at the „Arc” publishing house as a result of the first year of the project;  Over 10 000 children benefited from lectures, discussions and literary communication. 14 2. Moldcell Scholarship Sixteen young people from Moldova were selected for the 8th edition of the Moldcell Scholarship project. Within eight months each of the 16 Moldcell scholars will receive 1,080 USD and will benefit from other professional development opportunities offered by the company. Winners from four higher education institutions – last year and Master’s Degree students – were selected on a competitive basis. “Moldcell Scholarship” is the unique project which offers not only financial independence but employment opportunities shortly after graduation from universities. Moreover, young people interact with the qualified specialists from various domains marketing, sales, finance, IT and will get a precious experience. “I consider myself very lucky because every student would have been happy to receive a scholarship. This project is a platform to encourage young capable people who want to assert themselves. I competed with other students as equals, and I can say that winners were selected based on the results achieved, which makes me think that Moldcell Scholarship is the most transparent project with equal opportunities for everyone. Elena Zandelova, 22 years, student of the Academy of Economic Studies of Moldova Moldcell Scholarship project was initiated in 2005 with the aim of supporting the most creative students from Moldova. During the reporting period, Moldcell granted 175 scholarships of the total volume of 165 000 USD. At present there are 28 people working for the Moldcell company, who had benefited from the Moldcell scholarship in different periods of time. 15 3. National business plans contest for youth This contest is organized by the National Association of Young Managers from Moldova and it is the only event of this type from Moldova. The contest offers the opportunity to students, graduates, young entrepreneurs to transform their innovative ideas into real businesses. The contest has 3 steps: on-line registration of the participants, training and creating the business plans, presentation of the business plans within a Business Forum. The winner of the Grand Prize of BPC 2012 has become Aliona Moraru, the mother of two boys, of 2 and 6 years of age. Together with her husband, she develops a business on the production of fermented compound feedstuffs, which is a new technology for Moldova, yet wellknown and efficiently used in Europe. Aliona says that the Grand Prize was of great support to her. With the €10,000 prize money they bought high-performance steam machinery. The business is going well now; the family has regular clients, who are satisfied with the product. “I’ve studied the production of compound feedstuffs in Europe. I borrowed some techniques and practices from there. I visited large fodder “Instead of buying a house, we invested in producing factories in Italy, Spain. The machinery the business. is very expensive, and we couldn’t start blindly. We Aliona Moraru, winner of Business worked abroad to gather money. Together with my Plans Contest for youth, 2012 husband, we worked for three years in order to able to invest. Instead of buying a house, we invested in the business”, stated Aliona Moraru. Moldcell joined the project, providing not only financial support, but transfer of experience. A total of 1366 persons were registered during the eighth edition of BPC 2012. Out of the total number of contenders, 55 people participated in entrepreneur training on business planning, accounting and financial planning issues, communication and possible ways to finance business. 4. Your future starts today, 4th edition Moldcell offers a series of workshops for the students of the Academy of Economic Studies. The workshops are delivered free of charge by Moldcell managers and explore the new standards of the modern business and the expectations of the local employers. From 2009, 41 workshops with the participation of 1000 students were organized. 5. Mobi, friend of all children Mobi is Moldcell’s character for children. He is a smart, funny and brave kid with super hero skills, always ready for adventures and entertainment. Still, Mobi likes most of all to make children smile and to offer them joy and magic experience. He participates in all activities for children organized or supported by Moldcell company, offering pleasant surprises to children. Mobi appeared from our wish to be closer to children, to help them to grow and get education. During 12 years of activity Moldcell supported about 600 000 children from Moldova through social, educational, charitable and entertaining projects. Thus, creating a character, a true friend of children, was a natural step, and Moldcell did it with confidence and love. 16 The first apparition of Mobi was at the end of August 2011, when he presented the first animated 3D stereo movie produced in Moldova “Wolf, kids and spy-hole”. It seemed like a natural way to launch this character, since Mobi is a modern child, a representative of the present ingenious, curios generation interested in new technologies. Being the pioneer in implementation of advanced technologies, Moldcell tries to offer the most modern communication solutions in the Republic of Moldova. Mobi continued to bring nice surprises for children on Christmas holidays. For 2 years in a row, he presents the audio-book with fairytales “Jurnalul cu povesti” (“The diary with fairytales”). The disk is produced by a local TV channel and was distributed free of charge in kindergartens, schools from rural areas and orphanages. In 2012, Mobi brought another great gift for kids all over the country: the collection of Moldovan fairy tales “Pacala si Tindala”. “Pacala” and “Tindala” are 2 beloved folkloric Moldovan characters and it is for the first time that all the stories about them were published by a local publishing house. The books were sold with a Moldcell connection package and a special contest for children was also organized. In 2012, Mobi was also present at all kind of events were children participated, including Civil Aviation Day, Moldcell drawings in regions, etc. Here are some messages from the small admirers of Mobi: Dear Mobi! I am a sixth grader of Theoretical High school “Mihai Viteazul”, my name is Artur Poburnyi. Thank you a lot for the collection “Pacala si Tindala”. By reading these books, I was overwhelmed by positive feelings. With great pleasure, I participate in the contest. From Artur Porubnyi, 13 years old, Chisinau Hello, Mobi! My name is Alexandra and I gathered all the book collection “Pacala si Tindala”. I guessed all the riddles and I solved the rebus. The key word is the famous “Pacala” who wanted to trick us this time, even from the first question, but we are smart and figured it out right away. I would like to thank you for the books and to win one of the prizes. From Alexandra Donos, Chisinau 17 Moldcell activity in international associations. American Chamber of Commerce: As a member of the international network of 125 AmChams worldwide, AmCham Moldova connects businesses and business leaders to share the common goal of bringing the entrepreneurial spirit and the cultures of Moldova and the United States closer together. AmCham Moldova`s membership, currently encountering 81 members, is composed of a diverse spectrum of businesses, from large foreign investors to small goods and service providers that operate within Moldova, as well as Moldovan companies of all sizes that are pursuing trade with the United States. In 2012, Moldcell representatives were actively involved in HR, Tax&Legal and CSR committees of AmCham. Among other things, throughout 2012 these committees managed to: offer significant inputs for the tax and customs state policy and the law on competition; launch Young Professionals Program (8 meetings conducted within the program); achieve progress on the facilitation of immigration and work permit procedures & on several important amendments to the Labor Code in 2012; organize the social project “Colors of life”. 120 children with sight disabilities from the kindergarten No. 135 in Chisinau received goods of first need (furniture, medical equipment, computer, projector); gather useful goods for 120 children from the Center of Temporary Placement and Rehabilitation for Children in the city of Balti, where abandoned children from birth to 10 years old grow up within AmCham Christmas charity collection campaign. European Business Association A landmark set of ten principles to ensure that companies respect and support children's rights have been released on 15th of May in Chisinau. The organizers of the event UNICEF, the Global Compact and the European Business Association launched a call on business to step up their efforts to respect and support children's rights in the workplace, marketplace and community. Covering a wide range of key issues from child labor to marketing and advertising practices to the role of business in aiding children affected by emergencies the Principles call on businesses everywhere to uphold children's rights through their, policy commitments, due diligence and remediation measures, and to take action to advance children's rights. The Principles identify a comprehensive range of actions that all business should take to prevent and address adverse impacts connected with their activities and relationships, and maximize positive business impacts on children's lives. Moldcell shared its best practices in this area during the launching event, advocate for the principles of fair business, with respect towards all stakeholders, including children. The Principles aspire to be a key reference point for existing and future voluntary and other initiatives on business and children, and to promote multi-stakeholder collaboration. They are for all business, transnational and other, regardless of their size, sector, location, ownership and structure. 18 Discover the world in motion 1. V1 challenge competition This contest is exploring mastery, reaction and pilots’ professionalism because the 10 racing participants drive volkicars (racing cars that weigh only 500 kg and top speed up to 150 km/h, having 115 horsepower). V1 Challenge brings racing close to the spectator; audience doesn’t have to go out of city to watch the competition. 6 races took place during the summer of 2012 in Chisinau, Balti, Hincesti, bringing joy and adrenaline to the viewers. 2. Day of civil aviation Open Doors Day at Chisinau International Airport (October 3) became the point of attraction thanks to the special program dedicated to the 68th anniversary of the establishment of Civil Aviation in Moldova. The program included an air show, aviation machinery exhibition, shows of sportsmen and parachute jumpers from Moldova and Romania. While the children had the opportunity to play with Mobi, the adults felt like real pilots thanks to Moldcell: all interested persons were given forage caps as a gift and had the opportunity to print their photos on magnets. 3. Support for sports During 2012, Moldcell contributed to:  the participation of Moldovan water sports team at the FINA World Masters Championships in Riccione, Italy (June 1 – 10).  the organization of a mini-football tournament in the memory of policemen fallen in the line of duty.  the participation of Moldovan athletes at the Senior European Championships on Mixed Martial Arts, in Brussels, Belgium. 19 Turning communication into art – partnership as key factor in cultural education 1. Ethno Jazz Festival Moldcell offered traditional support in organizing the 11th edition of the festival, which took place in Chisinau and Tiraspol. This year’s edition was a special one, because it marked 20 years of activity of Trigon band – initiators and organizers of the festival. A special promotion with tickets was arranged for Moldcell clients. A photo exhibition resuming all the editions of the festival was opened for the public. 2. Faces of Friends Moldcell sponsored the 13th edition of the festival gathering the best and loved artists, combining different styles of music (from jazz to pop) that took place in the south capital – Cahul. 3. Class Fest The international festival of theatre and movie schools was organized by the Academy of Music, Theatre and Fine Arts with Moldcell support. The festival is a platform for young artists and a precious opportunity of artistic communication for art schools from 10 countries (Romania, Germany, Ukraine, Slovakia, Russia, Belarus, Georgia, Poland, Czech Republic, Moldova). 4. Cronograf international documentary film festival The 10th edition of the festival promoted creativity, identifying and bringing in focus for society social and environmental topics. Moldcell is proud to support the most important cinematic event in Moldova for the second year in a row. 5. Swedish movie festival “Cinema Nistru” The first edition of the festival was organized in Chisinau and Tiraspol by the Swedish Embassy in Moldova, with the contribution of Moldcell. 20 Moldcell expresses its gratitude to the subscribers for their contribution to operator’s sustainability activity. In the vision of the company, subscribers are part of the family that trust our strategy to act in a responsible way, making technologies work for the benefit of society and initiating long-term projects with positive impact on Moldova community. Thank you! 21
