Conrico International Communication on Progress Period Covered: February 22nd 2013 to February 21st 2014 H.E Ban Ki-moon Secretary-General United Nations New York, NY 10017 USA Dear Mr Secretary-General, I am pleased to confirm that Conrico International Limited reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of human rights, labour, environment and anticorruption. In this annual Communication on Progress we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Gareth Beacham General Manager What is the UN Global Compact? Never before has there been a greater alignment between the objectives of the international community and those of the business world. Common goals, such as building markets, combating corruption, safeguarding the environment and ensuring social inclusion, have resulted in unprecedented partnerships and openness between business, governments, civil society, labour and the United Nations. Launched in July 2000, the UN Global Compact is a leadership platform for the development implementation and disclosure of responsible and sustainable corporate policies and practices. Endorsed by chief executives, it seeks to align business operations and strategies everywhere with ten universally accepted principles in the area of human rights, labour, environment and anticorruption. With more than 8,500 signatories in over 135 countries, the UN Global Compact is the world’s largest voluntary corporate sustainability. initiative. Through a wide spectrum of specialized workstreams, management tools, resources, and topical programs, the UN Global Compact aims to advance two complementary objectives: • Mainstream the ten principles in business activities around the world • Catalyze actions in support of broader UN goals, including the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) By doing so, business, as the primary driver of globalization, can help ensure that markets, commerce, technology and finance advance in ways that benefit economies and societies everywhere and contribute to a more sustainable and inclusive global economy. The UN Global Compact is not a regulatory instrument, but rather a voluntary initiative that relies on public accountability, transparency and disclosure to complement regulation and to provide a space for innovation and collective action. UNGC ten principles Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Labour Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labour; Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against all forms of corruption, including extortion and bribery  Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses Assessment, Policy & Goals Conrico International actively supports the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and does not carry out business with any countries or regimes where flagrant human rights abuses are known. Conrico International has an Equal opportunities and diversity policy and is committed to ensuring that all our employees are treated fairly and with respect. Conrico is committed to achieving a working environment which provides equality of opportunity and freedom from unlawful discrimination on the grounds of race, colour, nationality, ethnic origin, gender, marital status, disability, religious beliefs, age or sexual orientation. This Policy aims to remove unfair and discriminatory practices within the Company and to encourage full contribution from its diverse community. The Company is committed to actively opposing all forms of discrimination. The Company also aims to provide a service that does not discriminate against its clients and customers in the means by which they can access the services and goods supplied by the Company. The Company believes that all employees and clients are entitled to be treated with respect and dignity. Implementation As we expand our operations internationally all efforts are made to ensure that countries we are trading in comply with the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Conrico International has a Grievance Procedure in place This grievance procedure is intended to ensure that any individual grievance about work, working environment or working relationships, (including any matters arising out of your terms and conditions) is dealt with fairly and quickly and to a satisfactory resolution for all concerned. Staff also has the benefit of Flexible working hours, they are updated on the business through a regular newsletter and staff consultation is run where organisational changes are being implemented to ensure staff are informed and have an opportunity to influence outcomes and voice their opinion. Outcomes In the past year Conrico International has not been subject to any investigations, legal cases or Incidents involving Human Rights.  Labour Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Assessment, Policy & Goals Conrico International supports the ILO Core Conventions and will not do business with any organisations who uses forced or child labour. All Conrico International employees are issued with a contract of employment& terms of work All staff is issued with a staff manual which includes information on standard terms and conditions of employment, company benefits, company rules, grievance and disciplinary procedures. Conrico International complies with all relevant health and safety legislation and provides a range of different safety related trainings to staff as appropriate to their job role. Implementation Conrico International consults with staff on a regular basis through companywide communication and brainstorming session, quarterly newsletter. Conrico International has a Health & Safety Policy as well as a range of employment policies relating to employee well being, bullying and harassment, occupational health, capability policy. Outcomes Conrico International has not been subject to any health and safety notices in the last year or been involved in any investigations, legal cases related to the contravention of the Global Compact Labour principle.  Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental changes; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Assessment, Policy & Goals Conrico International has an environmental awareness policy, Staff is aware of all issues that could affect the environment. Implementation Conrico International recycles paper and has policy to keep waste to a minimum. Dispose of waste, including contaminated waste, in an environmental friendly manner, using the containers provided for that purpose. Conrico International uses licensed waste companies for disposal of waste. Company is working towards replacing existing lighting to low consumption Outcomes Conrico International has not had any reportable environmental incidents within the last year and has not been subject to any statutory notices or prosecutions.  Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery Assessment, Policy & Goals Conrico International is compliant with the Bribery Act and does not participate in any corruption, bribery or extortion. Conrico International supports the UN Convention against Corruption and does not operate or with organisations known to be corrupted. Implementation The General Manager is responsible for anti-corruption within Conrico and communicates to the employees; and make sure that the organisation adopt a risk-based approach to managing bribery risks according to the UK the Bribery Act 2010. Outcomes Conrico International has not been involved in any legal cases, rulings or other events related to corruption or bribery. Conrico International submits audited accounts each year to Companies House which are verified by external auditors and this is used as one of the methods of identifying any spurious payments which could be related to bribery or corrupt behaviour.
