Ahead with Hubbing Hubbing Delivers In two short years, after the commercial launch of StarHub in 2000, we became Singapore’s fi rst fully integrated info-communications and entertainment company. We have continuously created compelling reasons for customers to use Hubbing, a ‘quadruple power play’ of service offerings combining mobile, pay TV, broadband and fi xed network services. In the process, we have consistently delivered value and returns to our stakeholders. History of Winning Sustainable Content Results from 2005 to 2012 1 Key Figures Revenue Total Mobile Customers 2 The Group Today FROM $1.57b TO $2.42b FROM 1.39m TO 2.20m 4 Our Financial Highlights 1.5x 1.6x 6 Chairman’s Message 10 Hubbing Enhances Success 12 Hubbing Powers Business 14 Hubbing Raises Performance 16 Hubbing Heightens Recognition Profi t Attributable to Shareholders Pay TV Households FROM $221m TO $359m FROM 448,000 TO 536,000 18 Board of Directors 24 In Discussion with StarHub’s 1.6x 1.2x Management 32 Senior Management 34 The Nucleus Connect Conversation 36 Hubbing in Review Free Cash Flow Broadband Households 50 Group Financial Review FROM $257m TO $417m FROM 277,000 TO 444,000 55 Corporate Governance 1.6x 1.6x 72 Directors’ Particulars 75 Awards and Industry Honours 76 Investor Relations 80 Sustainability Report 125 Financial Statements Triple-Service Household Hubbing Index from 2005 to 2012 | KEY FIGURES | Continue to Deliver Strong Shareholders’ Value 20.0¢ $6.5b DIVIDEND MARKET INCLUDES A PROPOSED FINAL DIVIDEND OF 5 CENTS +411% CAPITALISATION CUMULATIVE TOTAL +122% +179% SHAREHOLDERS' RETURN SINCE FY2005 FROM 9 CENTS FROM $2.3B IN FY2005 IN FY2004 | STARHUB SHARE PRICE PERFORMANCE VS STI INDEX (FROM 2005 TO 2012) | StarHub STI (Points) $3.79 StarHub ($) Dec 2012 4,000 4.00 2,066 3,000 Dec 2004 3.00 STI 2,000 3,167 2.00 Dec 2012 1,000 1.00 $1.10 $1.10 | GROUP AT A GLANCE | The Group Today SALE OF EQUIPMENT $2.42b 8% The Group’s operating revenue increased 4.7% year-on-year (YoY) BROADBAND 10% to $2.42 billion due to higher service revenue and sales of equipment. Fixed Network Services recorded the highest revenue increase YoY at 6.2%, TOTAL REVENUE followed by Pay TV revenue which grew 5.4% YoY. Broadband revenue FIXED % Revenue 51% MOBILE NETWORK 15% was 3.2% higher and Mobile revenue recorded a gain of 0.5%. SERVICES Mix +4.7% PAY TV 16% 166% Mobile Pay TV Broadband Fixed Network $1.22b $396m $249m $358m INCREASED 12% DECREASED 2% INCREASED 4% INCREASED 13% FROM 2009's $1.09B FROM 2009's $405M FROM 2009's $241M FROM 2009's $318M Pre-paid Voice 20% 84% Standard-Definition 18% 80% Post-paid Others 50%% 50% StarHub 82% Data & Internet High-Definition 16% 2012 2012 2012 2012 REVENUE MIX CHANNEL MIX > 50 MBPS MARKET MIX* REVENUE MIX * Estimated POST-PAID $835m $917m $968m $981m PAY TV $405m $395m $376m $396m BROADBAND $241m $236m $242m $249m DATA & $269m $278m $281m $295m REVENUE INTERNET REVENUE REVENUE REVENUE 2009 2010 2011 2012 2009 2010 2011 2012 2009 2010 2011 2012 2009 2010 2011 2012 3-YEAR 3-YEAR 3-YEAR 3-YEAR CAGR 5.5% CAGR (0.8%) CAGR 1.2% CAGR 3.1% 2 / STARHUB LTD / Annual Report 2012 Annual Report 2012 / STARHUB LTD / 3 | OUR FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS | 5-Year Financial Highlights 2012 2,422 2012 214 2011 2,312 232 337 2010 2,238 2011 205 2009 2,150 244 2008 2,128 342 2010 200 REVENUE ($ MILLION) 240 350 2009 186 241 2012 417 357 2011 450 2008 168 2010 398 243 364 2009 461 Triple Service Households 2008 378 Double Service Households Single Service Households FREE CASH FLOW ($ MILLION) HUBBING HOUSEHOLDS ('000) 2012 32 2011 31 2010 28 2009 32 Mobile Broadband 2,200,000 444,000 CUSTOMERS HOUSEHOLDS 2012 1,224 2012 249 2011 1,218 2011 242 2010 1,181 2010 236 2009 1,094 2009 241 2008 1,079 2008 253 REVENUE ($ MILLION) REVENUE ($ MILLION) Pay TV Fixed Network 536,000 $358m HOUSEHOLDS 2012 396 2012 358 2011 376 2011 337 | CHAIRMAN'S MESSAGE | “Delivering a good performance does not mean that we will rest on our laurels. In fact, it is increasingly important for us to adapt and evolve our services to meet new challenges.” +30% “OUR SHARE PRICE WAS UP 30% OVER THE YEAR, PLACING IT AMONG THE GAIN 10 BEST PERFORMERS ON THE STI.” DEAR SHAREHOLDERS climbing, traditional telecoms services such as voice The past year has been another challenging but rewarding calls and SMS have shown a dip in volume a sign of how year for StarHub. In the face of a weak global economy, communication platforms are changing. Singapore’s gross domestic product registered a 1.3% growth in 2012, down from 5.2% in 2011. Nonetheless, The Next Generation Nationwide Broadband Network we have put in a strong performance across all our lines (Next Gen NBN) continues to expand in Singapore, of business. covering 95% of households and commercial buildings. As a result, the traditional telecommunications providers We are proud to have recorded an eighth straight year of are now facing new broadband and multimedia competitors consistent growth in 2012, with our operating revenue which will exert constant price pressures on service plans. rising 5% to $2.4 billion, and all our four lines of business showing improvement. EBITDA was up 7% over 2011 While traditional pay TV services have shown some to $720 million, mainly due to higher service revenue, growth in the local industry, the challenge from overhigher sales of equipment and a tight rein on staff costs. the-top content players continues to exist, attracting more We are also pleased that StarHub has delivered sterling viewers to access these alternative channels for their shareholder returns once more. Our share price was up own entertainment needs. This will become increasingly 30% over the year, placing it among the 10 best performers prevalent as more devices allow for Internet access. on the Straits Times Index (STI). With its dividend yield of 5%, StarHub has one of the highest dividend yields In light of these developments, StarHub will focus on some amongst the STI component stocks. key strategic initiatives that will allow us to meet the challenges of the new digital economy. Delivering a good performance does not mean that we will rest on our laurels. In fact, it is increasingly CONTINUING OUR FOCUS ON CUSTOMER SERVICE important for us to adapt and evolve our services to meet StarHub will ensure that our customer service remains new challenges. The market is becoming increasingly one of the cornerstones of the StarHub brand. In the service | CHAIRMAN'S MESSAGE | For instance, we have developed a self-help mobile Vodafone partnership bore fruit as application called ‘My StarHub’ that houses the most the StarHub-Vodafone marketing frequently-asked questions. ‘My Community’ is a crowddrive spread across the world. Our sourced web portal where customers can interact with NFC initiative with DBS, MasterCard each other on issues regarding our services. And we have We and EZ-Link saw the launch of our further enhanced our comprehensive interactive voice continued to SmartWallet service, and our close response platform, along with our highly-interactive strengthen partnership with Microsoft allowed Twitter account ‘StarHub Cares’. As a result, monthly us to become their launch partner our service call volume in 2012 has dropped by 20%, without for Windows 8. Moving forward, partnership compromising on the quality of customer service. we expect to leverage further our with many relationship with our regional INVESTING IN NEW TECHNOLOGIES leading telecom friends, and even many nonAND CONTENT CREATION companies traditional service providers. Our mobile network has been enhanced to support the from around increasing demands for mobile broadband access. the world.” BUILDING A BETTER BRAND Besides upgrading our current 3G network, we have Supported by our long-time started migrating our mobile network to Long-Term creative agency DDB Group Evolution (LTE) to ensure that our mobile network capacity Singapore, StarHub won the ‘Brand continues to support the mobile broadband boom that of the Year’ Award at the Singapore will occur as more LTE handsets are introduced. Advertising Hall Of Fame Awards, an industry-led event that recognises and We have also started to look at alternative technologies to celebrates excellence, outstanding support greater communications throughput. One of our achievements and breakthrough ideas key investments here is in White Spaces, the unutilised in creative communications. TV broadcast spectrum which could be used for data communications. Spearheaded by our network team, This award reflects our efforts to we formalised the ‘Singapore White Spaces Pilot Group’ build and expand the StarHub brand. that is exploring this technology as a viable medium. 2012 saw a number of initiatives based on our strategy of humanising Another area of investment is Big Data Analytics through technology: from our ‘Home is Where an initiative called ‘SmartHub’. Insights from rich tracts of the Heart Is’ campaign and ‘Golden data will help us understand our customers better, build Gurus’ initiative targeted at senior valuable products and benefits, and strengthen our brand citizens, or the launch of innovative loyalty. SmartHub will also help position Singapore as the services such as the LionsXll LIVE leader in consumer and social analytics for Interactive Mobile App and TV Anywhere service. Digital Media research and development. We believe these efforts have To differentiate ourselves against pay TV competitors, we resonated positively with started to create content which is distinctively StarHub’s. Singaporeans, and we hope to We launched Sunsilk Academy Fantasia, our own realitycapitalise on our brand momentum singing competition where 14 singers competed for a to reach more demographics in two-year singing contract and recording album with a the future. local record label. At the same time, we strengthened Social responsibility goes a long way in brand-building. Last year has been one of StarHub’s most active years in community engagement. long term value for our business and enhances StarHub’s In February 2013, we announced the retirement of Mr Neil brand equity. Montefiore as CEO. We thank Neil for his contribution in both the strategic and business sustainability aspects of Our sustainability report this year presents a substantially the Group over the past three years. We wish him all the greater number of GRI performance indicators for a wider best in his retirement. Mr Tan Tong Hai will become the view of our sustainability performance. CEO and Executive Director of StarHub in March 2013, subject to regulatory approval. We are confident that he Our workplace excellence strategies promote fair will further augment StarHub’s position as a leading infoemployment practices which help us attract and retain the communications and entertainment company in Singapore. best talent. People-centric human resources policies are ever more important as Singapore tightens immigration MOVING FORWARD rules for foreign workers. We expect our investments in new technology, our brand, content, partnerships, customer service and Our environmental responsibility focus is on reducing the community to cement our status as a powerful energy consumption and lowering costs, by adopting the technological player in the region with an eye for most feasible energy efficient technologies to reduce our community development and environmental awareness. energy and carbon intensities. I would like to thank all our shareholders for your CHANGES TO STARHUB’S constant support and confidence in StarHub. I am BOARD OF DIRECTORS & CEO immensely proud of the efforts of our staff, and delighted In 2012, we announced the retirement of Mr Lee Theng with the continued commitment and support from our Kiat as a non-executive director on StarHub’s Board of customers, business partners and associates this year. Directors due to work commitments arising from his new StarHub’s Board and Management remains dedicated appointment as President and General Counsel of Temasek to building both tangible and intangible value in the Holdings (Private) Limited. We also announced the Company for you. Ahead with Hubbing 57% $74 >200 +4,000 HOUSEHOLDS CONSISTENTLY PAY TV BRINGING US TAKING UP TWO OR HIGH POST-PAID CHANNELS 444,000 BROADBAND MORE SERVICES MOBILE ARPU HOUSEHOLDS Hubbing Having the passion and tenacity to tackle any problem and score the goals that have been set, all while having fun Enhances From its inception, Hubbing has always been pushing the envelope, delivering results Success From its inception, Hubbing has always been pushing the through strong competitive advantage and solid differentiation. envelope, delivering results through strong competitive advantage and solid differentiation. 14 / STARHUB LTD / Annual Report 2012 Annual Report 2012 / STARHUB LTD / 11 Ahead with Hubbing 10 11 40 20,000 COUNTRIES TIE-UP UNDERSEA CABLE LINKS WITH COMMERCIAL VIA CONEXUS SYSTEMS TO VODAFONE’S LOCATIONS MOBILE ALLIANCE SERVE ENTERPRISE PARTNER NETWORKS ACCESSIBLE VIA CUSTOMERS GLOBALLY NEXT GEN NBN Hubbing Going the distance in the pursuit of excellence, so that companies can provide matchless service to their customers, wherever they are Powers Business Hubbing From enables its inception, businesses Hubbing has always been go further to pushing than ever the envelope, delivering results with unprecedented before, through channels strong competitive advantage of collaboration and solid differentiation. and co-operation in a globalised economy. 14 / STARHUB LTD / Annual Report 2012 Annual Report 2012 / STARHUB LTD / 13 Ahead with Hubbing 5% 20¢ 30% 37% DIVIDEND DIVIDEND CAPITAL GAIN IN TOTAL YIELD PER SHARE SHARE PRICE SHAREHOLDER’S YoY RETURN (INCLUDING DIVIDENDS) Hubbing It is about having nimbleness to make the leaps to seize opportunities, and executing brilliantly at every stage Raises Performance Hubbing is constantly ahead of the curve, driven by a relentless desire to outperform our peers by building a solid financial profile and rewarding shareholders. Annual Report 2012 / STARHUB LTD / 15 Ahead with Hubbing 11 41 -20% 214,000 GOLD CUSTOMER CUSTOMER SERVICE DECREASE IN NUMBER OF TRIPLE SERVICE WINS AWARDS MONTHLY CALL SERVICE HOUSEHOLDS VOLUME Hubbing It requires dedication, perseverance, and commitment the qualities involved in a single minded devotion to scale ever higher peaks Heightens Recognition To stay ahead, Hubbing is committed to putting customers first, with better and faster service, and a bigger range of service offerings to meet their needs. Annual Report 2012 / STARHUB LTD / 17 | BOARD OF DIRECTORS | Activities of The Board The key roles of the Board include overseeing the management of the Company’s business and affairs, and monitoring and reviewing the financial and operating performance of the Group. he Board meets regularly, with a minimum To ensure an equitable distribution of responsibilities of five meetings each fi nancial year, and may among Board members and to optimise the Tan Guong Ching Neil Montefiore Kua Hong Pak Chairman Executive Director Independent Director Chief Executive Offi cer Chairman of Audit Committee Mr Tan Guong Ching is the nonMr Neil Montefiore joined StarHub Mr Kua Hong Pak was appointed executive Chairman of StarHub. on 1 January 2010 as its CEO and to the Board on 19 November He was appointed to the Board on Executive Director. He was last 2001 and was last re-elected as a 8 August 1998 and was last re-elected re-elected as an Executive Director Director on 12 April 2012. He is as a Director on 12 April 2012. He on 16 April 2010. Mr Montefiore has the Managing Director and Group is also the Chairman of Singapore over 35 years of global experience CEO of ComfortDelGro Corporation Technologies Telemedia Pte Ltd in the telecommunications industry. Limited. Mr Kua brings wide-ranging (ST Telemedia), STT Communications Prior to joining StarHub, he was the experience of fi nancial accounting, Ltd, Asia Mobile Holdings Pte. Ltd., CEO and a Director of M1 Limited management and investment to the Singapore Technologies Aerospace (M1) in Singapore. From 1991 to 1996, Board. Mr Kua is also the Deputy Ltd. and IP Academy. He was Mr Montefiore was the Managing Chairman of SBS Transit Ltd formerly the CEO of the Housing & Director of Chevalier (Telepoint) and VICOM Ltd. Prior to joining Development Board, the Principal Ltd and Director, Mobile Services of ComfortDelGro Corporation Limited, Private Secretary to the Prime Hong Kong Telecom CSL Limited. Mr Kua served as the President Minister and the Permanent Secretary Prior to that, he held the senior and CEO of Times Publishing of the Ministry of Home Affairs, the position of Managing Director of Limited and Executive Director of Ministry of the Environment and the PakNet Ltd in the United Kingdom. SBS Transit Ltd. Mr Kua serves on then Ministry of Communications Mr Montefiore joined The Cable and various community and voluntary & Information. Mr Tan initiated Wireless group in 1976 and held organisations and was awarded a several major projects during his various marketing and engineering Public Service Medal in 1991 and the career, such as neighbourhood management positions in Hong Kong, Public Service Star in 1996 for his policing, civil defence, commissioning Bahrain, Saudi Arabia and the United contributions to the community. He of the mass rapid transit system, Kingdom before being appointed CEO holds a Bachelor of Accountancy from the corporatisation of Singapore of Cable and Wireless Systems Ltd the former University of Singapore. Telecommunications Ltd and in Hong Kong. In September 2010, Mr Kua participated in the Advanced the re-organisation of the then Mr Montefiore was named one of Management Program conducted by Telecommunication Authority the 100 most powerful people in the the Harvard Business School, USA. of Singapore. Mr Tan served in telecoms industry worldwide. He was the Administrative Service for also named the Commsday Asia “Best 33 years. In recognition of Mr Tan’s Telecom Industry Executive” for 2010, | BOARD OF DIRECTORS | Peter Seah Lim Huat Nihal Vijaya Devadas Kaviratne CBE Non-Executive Director Independent Director Chairman of Executive Resource Chairman of Strategy Committee & Compensation Committee and Nominating Committee Mr Peter Seah Lim Huat was Mr Nihal Vijaya Devadas Kaviratne appointed to the Board on 22 July CBE was appointed to the Board 2002 and was last re-elected as a on 16 August 2004 and was last Director on 15 April 2011. He is a re-elected as a Director on 15 April member of the Temasek Advisory 2011. He serves on the boards of DBS Panel and has extensive experience Bank Ltd and DBS Group Holdings Ltd in the fi nancial industry. He is also in Singapore and GlaxoSmithKline the Chairman of DBS Bank Ltd, Pharmaceuticals Limited in India. DBS Group Holdings Ltd, Singapore Mr Kaviratne has a stellar track record Technologies Engineering Ltd and of success gained during a wideLasalle College of the Arts Limited. ranging career at Unilever spanning Mr Seah also serves on the boards over 40 years. He held various senior of CapitaLand Limited and STATS level management positions in the ChipPAC Ltd. Mr Seah served as the Unilever group across Asia, Europe President and CEO and a Director and Latin America. He retired from of Singapore Technologies Pte Ltd the Unilever group in March 2005. from December 2001 to December Mr Kaviratne was cited in the Queen’s 2004. Prior to that, he held several 2004 New Year Honours List in the senior level positions in the former UK and was awarded the CBE Overseas Union Bank Limited before (Commander of the Order of British retiring as Vice Chairman and CEO Empire) for services to UK business in September 2001. Mr Seah holds a interests in Indonesia. He was chosen Bachelor of Business Administration by Business Week in 2002 for the (Honours) from the former University Stars of Asia Award as one of the of Singapore. “25 leaders at the forefront of change”. His management and leadership skills in multinational business strengthen the Board. Mr Kaviratne holds a Bachelor of Arts (Honours) with a major in Economics from Bombay Steven Terrell Clontz Lim Ming Seong Teo Ek Tor Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Independent Director Mr Steven Terrell Clontz was Mr Lim Ming Seong was appointed to Mr Teo Ek Tor was appointed to appointed to the Board on 8 December the Board on 14 December 2000 and the Board on 16 August 2004 and 1999 and was last re-elected as a was last re-elected as a Director on was last re-elected as a Director on Director on 12 April 2012. Since 15 April 2011. He is the Chairman 16 April 2010. He is the Chairman of January 2010, Mr Clontz has been of CSE Global Limited and First PrimePartners Group Pte Ltd and the Senior Executive Vice-President Resources Ltd and serves on the Managing Partner of PrimePartners of North America and Europe boards of U Mobile Sdn Bhd and ST Asset Management Pte Ltd, which Operations at ST Telemedia. In Kinetics Ltd. Mr Lim was with the manages private equity funds. December 2012, he was appointed Singapore Technologies (ST) group Mr Teo is an independent director as a Director of Jasper Wireless, Inc. from 1986 to 2002, where he left as and a member of the Audit Committee He is the Chairman of InterDigital, Group Director. Prior to joining the and the Nominating Committee. Inc. Prior to this, he served as the ST group, Mr Lim served as the Mr Teo has vast experience CEO of StarHub for 11 years before Deputy Secretary with the Ministry in investment banking, asset retiring on 31 December 2009. Mr of Defence of Singapore. Mr Lim management and fi nancial services Clontz is a well-regarded veteran in brings with him extensive accounting, in Asia, and brings with him in-depth the telecommunications and media management and technical expertise. fi nancial and analytical expertise. industry with more than 30 years He holds a Bachelor of Applied Science He had contributed to, and been of extensive experience. He brings (Honours) with a major in Mechanical instrumental in the development with him invaluable knowledge of Engineering from the University of of two major regional investment the telecoms and media industry and Toronto and a Diploma in Business banking groups – Morgan Grenfell extensive management expertise. Administration from the former Asia (1980-1993) and BNP Prime He began his career in the USA. University of Singapore. Mr Lim Peregrine (1997-1999). Mr Teo held From 1995 to 1998, he served as the also participated in the Advanced senior executive positions within the President and CEO of IPC Information Management Programs conducted by Morgan Grenfell Asia group and was Systems Inc., based in New York. Prior INSEAD and the Harvard Business the Regional Managing Director of to that, Mr Clontz has held senior School, USA. BNP Prime Peregrine (Singapore) executive positions at BellSouth Ltd. He holds a Bachelor of Arts International, Inc. He was the (Honours), with a major in Business President of BellSouth International Administration, from the University (Asia-Pacific), Inc. between 1991 of Western Ontario, Canada. | BOARD OF DIRECTORS | Liu Chee Ming Robert J. Sachs Independent Director Independent Director Mr Liu Chee Ming was appointed Dr Robert J. Sachs was appointed to the Board on 16 August 2004 and to the Board on 29 April 2005 and was last re-elected as a Director on was last re-elected as a Director on 16 April 2010. He is and has been 12 April 2012. A lawyer by training, the Managing Director of Platinum he is a Principal of Continental Holdings Company Limited since Consulting Group, LLC. Dr Sachs has 1996. Mr Liu has over 30 years almost 35 years extensive experience of experience within the private in the cable television and media investment services sector and has industry. He was the President an invaluable network of contacts and CEO of the National Cable & in the media industry. Mr Liu’s Telecommunications Association fi nancial and strategic expertise from August 1999 to March 2005. and experience in dealing with major From 1979 to 1998, he held various corporations and businesses in many senior level positions in Continental parts of the world is an asset to the Cablevision, Inc. and its successor, Board. He worked for various Jardine MediaOne Group, Inc., overseeing Fleming entities for over 17 years the company’s legal and regulatory in senior level positions. Between affairs and corporate development. 1988 and 1995, he served as a Member He began his professional career as of the Executive Committee and the legislative staff of US Senator the Head of Investment Banking for Charles Goodell and thereafter as a Jardine Fleming Holdings Limited. consultant to the White House Office Mr Liu was a Director of Media Asia of Telecommunications Policy. He was Entertainment Group Limited of legislative counsel to the National Hong Kong from 2005 to 2007. Telecommunications and Information He is a member of the Takeovers Administration in the United States. Appeal Committee and Takeovers Dr Sachs holds a Bachelor of Political and Mergers Panel of the Securities Science from the University of and Futures Commission in Hong Rochester, a Master of Journalism Kong. Mr Liu holds a Bachelor of from the Columbia University Nasser Marafih Sio Tat Hiang Takeshi Kazami Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Dr Nasser Marafi h was appointed Mr Sio Tat Hiang was appointed Mr Takeshi Kazami was appointed to the Board on 9 July 2007 and was to the Board on 2 July 2012. He is to the Board on 13 April 2012. He is last re-elected as a Director on 15 the Executive Director of ST the President and CEO of NTT April 2011. He is currently the CEO Telemedia. Mr Sio has more than Singapore Pte. Ltd., the regional of Qtel Group LLC (QG), a limited 20 years of fi nancial and management headquarters of NTT Communications company registered under the Qatar experience. He was a core member Ltd for the Asia Pacific region. Financial Center and subsidiary of involved in the formation of STT as He also serves as a director of Qatar Telecom QSC (Qtel). Dr Nasser a new business area for the former Emerio GlobeSoft Pte Ltd. He started began his professional career at Qtel ST group, and served as Senior his career with NTT in 1986 and in 1992 as an expert advisor from the Executive Vice-President of ST held various positions, including University of Qatar, and later joined Telemedia from September 2010 to Area Manager NTT America. Qtel as the Director of Strategic March 2012. Prior to that, Mr Sio was He was seconded to StarHub, as Planning and Development. He was Vice-President of Corporate Finance Head of its Japanese Sales Sector instrumental in many strategic and Director of Strategic Investment in 2000. He went on to become the initiatives and landmarks in Qtel’s and Group Treasurer, for the ST Head of Arcstar, the fl agship brand history, including the introduction of group, overseeing the treasury and of NTT Communications Ltd's the fi rst GSM service in the Middle investment management functions range of global communication East in 1994 and thereafter, the of the ST group. Before joining the services. Upon his return to NTT Internet service in Qatar in 1996, ST group, Mr Sio worked in the Communications Ltd in 2005 and and the privatisation of Qtel in 1998. banking and fi nancial services after serving as Director, Corporate Under Dr Nasser’s leadership, Qtel has industries. He holds a Bachelor of Sales, he was appointed to his current evolved from being a local telecom Business Administration (Honours) position in July 2010. He holds a provider to an international player, from the former University of Bachelor of Arts, International with strategic investments in the Singapore and attended the Senior Relation Course (Chinese and Asia Pacific region. Dr Nasser holds Management Programme at the Sociology), from the Tokyo University a Bachelor of Science in Electrical London Business School, UK. of Foreign Studies, Japan. He was a Engineering, a Master of Science and visiting scholar at the Asia Pacific a PhD in Communication Engineering Research Center of Stanford from the George Washington University, USA. University, USA. | IN DISCUSSION WITH STARHUB'S MANAGEMENT | Neil Montefiore Tan Tong Hai Kwek Buck Chye CEO COO CFO “Driving business excellence and operational efficiencies across the Company” Chan Kin Hung Diana Lee Mock Pak Lum Kevin Lim Head, Marketing Head, Customer Service Chief Technology Offi cer Head, Enterprise and Products Business Group Q: Can you give us an overview of StarHub’s performance in 2012? Neil: I am pleased to share that StarHub has variety of multimedia streaming services. In contrast, our average monthly SMS traffic per user dropped 19%, further cementing the changing face of the shown immense resilience in 2012 despite the overall telecommunications industry. slow growth of the local and global economies. Our full year revenue increased 5% to $2.42 billion, with a 7% Recognising the proliferation of smart devices would higher EBITDA at $720 million. Our EBITDA margin translate into a growing demand for mobile data, we reached 32.3% and we increased NPAT by 14% to $359 upgraded our HSPA+ network to Dual Cell High-Speed million. All in all, we are proud of our 2012 performance, Packet Access Plus (DC-HSPA+) and rolled out our which has taken us to eight straight years of steady growth. Long-Term Evolution (LTE) or 4G network. Our mobile customers will be able to enjoy higher downlink speeds With our eye on the rapidly changing info-communications as well as more consistent multimedia streaming. industry, we maintained our philosophy of constant evolution and innovation in 2012. Our investments in an Our Mobile service revenue grew 1% YoY to $1.22 billion, enhanced infrastructure and new services will enable us contributing to 51% of total operating revenue and to adapt and compete more decisively in the new digital making Mobile our largest revenue contributor yet again. environment, against new, smaller but equally aggressive This was due mainly to a higher post-paid mobile competitors as well as an established player with a broad services revenue, which inched up 1% to $981 million regional reach. YoY—on the back of a 1.10 million strong post-paid customer base which grew by 4% or 38,000 from the The smart device has become more ubiquitous in 2012 previous year’s. Post-paid ARPU for the full year was with the introduction of new mobile devices and the $74, contributed partly by a higher take-up of SmartSurf constantly expanding plethora of mobile/tablet applications. (smartphone) plans. Apple refreshed its line-up four times in 2012—with the iPhone 5, the new and fourth generation iPads and the While Pre-paid mobile service revenue decreased 2% | IN DISCUSSION WITH STARHUB'S MANAGEMENT | Tim Goodchild Jeannie Ong Veronica Lai Chan Hoi San Head, Government and Head, Corporate Communications Head, Legal & Secretariat / Head, Human Resource Strategic Affairs & Investor Relations Company Secretary online rights for selected premium content, so that which comprised 82% of Fixed Network revenue, grew our customers can enjoy their favourite content across 5% to $295 million; as a result of higher take-up of our multiple platforms. domestic data and Internet services, as well as more robust business solutions sales, the latter thanks largely to the Pay TV revenue for 2012 did well, growing by $20 million endeavours of our Enterprise Business Group. or 5% to $396 million and becoming our second largest revenue contributor at 16%. ARPU grew $2 to $52, due Our Hubbing strategy continued to prove resilient largely to the $2 monthly subscription price increase given the current market conditions, with Triple-service implemented in August 2011, the increased HD set-top households rising slightly to 214,000 households; the boxes’ rental revenue and higher advertising revenue. percentage of Hubbing households subscribing to two At the end of 2012, we had 536,000 Pay TV households. or more StarHub services remained dominant at 57%. The continued popularity of our multi-services Our Broadband service revenue recorded an $8 million bundling plans, coupled with new and innovative or 3% hike up to $249 million in 2012 as a result of a offers and promotions in 2013, should attract new higher ARPU and higher customer base. ARPU inched customers to our base. up from $45 in 2011 to $46 mirroring a net addition of 4,000 in the broadband customer base to 444,000. A higher churn in 2012 was due to more competitive offers by new market players and some broadband customers not Q: Why have you decided to retire at this time? Neil: I just turned 60 last December and think that it is the right time to retire from an executive role. renewing lower speed plans when their promotional I am leaving StarHub in the good hands of Tong Hai. We term contracts expired. have worked together for many years and I am confident that I am handing over the helm to yet another seasoned industry The Next Gen NBN continues to expand and now covers executive who can continue steering the Group successfully. 95% of Singapore. There were some delays at the Network I am not planning to head up another company. I plan to Company (NetCo) level that frustrated many retail service travel the world with my wife, spend more time with my At the Company level, our total shareholders’ reserves stand at $964.2 million and are adequate to cover any dividends declared in excess of the earnings for that year.” Q: What are your plans for StarHub once you become the CEO in March 2013? Tong Hai: I see great opportunities to leverage social analytics platform, to strengthen our capabilities in R&D. This investment stemmed from our recognising the need to understand the evolution on what Neil and Terry have built for StarHub – strong of our consumers in this rapidly changing infobrand, loyal customer base and convergent Hubbing. communications world. Insights from SmartHub will enable us to re-align our operations to respond quickly Given the difficult local and global economic climates, to developments in the industry, and implement the customers will be tightening their belts, so StarHub will organisational structure to develop and launch have to improve our value proposition through better innovative solutions. service and better value-for-money offerings. Our main challenge will be to keep our loyal customers happy, attract Finally, I strongly believe in shareholder rights new ones, and at the same time come out with innovative and corporate transparency. I hope to continue offerings to set ourselves apart from the rest. Although StarHub’s successful development and delivery of telecommunications is an essential service, we are not shareholder value in this rapidly changing technical taking anything for granted and will continue to operate and regulatory environment. I will also continue to our business efficiently. actively promote our corporate social responsibility programmes, engage the community and contribute We also aim to continue building upon our Hubbing to society. platform with content expansion on our Pay TV and through convergent and innovative services like TV Anywhere. This will provide our customers even more opportunities to access our rich TV content anytime, anywhere. The Q: What have been the highs and lows for StarHub's businesses in 2012? Tong Hai: Winning the ‘Brand of the Year Next Gen NBN will also allow us to target residential and Award’ at the annual Singapore Advertising Hall of commercial customers with new solutions and services that Fame Award capped the year on an absolute high for us. address their needs and appeal to their desires. It reinforced the fact that we have done well in offering more value to fulfi l our customers’ lifestyle needs and Smart device penetration should continue in 2013 and with provide a 360 degree customer engagement; leading it a rise in the demand for mobile data. Our LTE network to the endorsement of our brand. should cover all of Singapore by the end of 2013 and be ready for the anticipated boom of new LTE devices. We also We introduced an explosion of new content for StarHub expect the take-up of our new SmartSurf plans to be brisk TV customers. With about 30 new channels offered as mobile consumers rely more on mobile data services. on an already-rich content line-up, we brought the total number of channels to more than 200 on our pay TV In order to better understand the challenges ahead, platform. In most cases, the content is offered on we have invested in ‘SmartHub’, our consumer and multi platforms. Annual Report 2012 / STARHUB LTD / 27 | IN DISCUSSION WITH STARHUB'S MANAGEMENT | As the official broadcaster and principal sponsor of message we espouse is ‘Home Is Where The Heart Is’. LionsXII, we carried all of their content on our TV, online This brand campaign – launched over TV, print and online and mobile platforms. We even created a LionsXll Live media – reminds our customers that while technology Mobile App which allowed customers to cheer the team is constantly enhancing our lifestyles with improved and get the latest news updates, match fi xtures, scores connectivity and convenience, we should not neglect and ‘live’ football action, all from their smartphones. the most important people in our lives – the family. Similarly, when we secured the rights to air the 2012 Great Eastern-YEO’s S.League, we showed the matches To encourage our customers to spend quality time on SuperSports Arena, StarHub TV Online and StarHub with their families, we set up a microsite, (www.starhub. TV on Mobile. com/familytime) where our customers can describe their wish to spend quality time with their family members, On the international front, we became the official and each month, we will endeavour to make one family’s broadcaster of the UEFA EURO 2012™. Our customers wish come true. were able to opt in for the multi-screen access of the matches on Internet and mobile at no additional cost. Another major initiative was called ‘Golden Gurus’. We also sealed the broadcast rights to the Bundesliga This campaign is an IT empowerment and education football league on multi platforms and acquired programme by seniors for seniors, to help the elderly bridge the broadcast rights to FOX SPORTS portfolio the digital gap with their loved ones and the community. of multimedia assets including TV, broadband and In line with the Government’s promotion of Active Aging, mobile services. StarHub TV sports fans can now catch StarHub’s Golden Gurus programme, supported by Council a stellar line-up of sports content that includes exciting for Third Age and RSVP ProGuide will see tech-savvy football properties, motor-racing, Grand Slam tennis, senior citizens giving back to society by teaching IT to the Golf Majors, popular American sports, premier other seniors. Asian sports and top cricket properties. On a low note, we would have been in discussion With the increasing ownership of multiple personal with the Premier League on the Barclays Premier League smart devices and the demand for entertainment content (BPL) content rights in 4Q2012, but there are delayed on the go, we offered our customers the ability to access contractual rights with the other operator that has our TV content anytime, anywhere via TV Anywhere. negotiations. We hope to be able to speak with Premier 36 channels may be accessed by StarHub TV customers League soon. We have often said, we will only acquire across Internet-enabled PCs, Macs, iPads and tablets. the broadcast rights for BPL at a sensible price The channels span a diverse group of genres that is to ensure that there is continued value for our designed to appeal to a broad range of customer tastes, customers and shareholders. including kids, comedy, drama, news and sports. We made our fi rst major foray into content production when we produced our own reality singing competition Q: Given the current market situation, how sustainable is your 20 cents dividend? Buck Chye: StarHub is generating a healthy called Sunsilk Academy Fantasia. Based on a popular and and sustainable free cash flow. In setting our dividend internationally-successful singing competition, this singing policy, the Board took a projected three-year view of competition brought reality TV to a whole new level where the Company’s earnings performance, the Company’s viewers could get to see the makings of a star from start to reserves and cash flows, to ensure that there is adequate fi nish. As part of our multi-platform strategy, viewers could view and identify with the contestants on TV, mobile and funding to meet our dividend payments requirements. Also the dividend from the listed company is declared out of distributable reserves of the Company. At the Q: IDA is looking to conduct a 4G spectrum auction in 2013, can you tell us more? Tim: IDA has stated that it will conduct a 4G Company level, our total shareholders’ reserves stand spectrum auction in the 1800 MHz band as well as the at $964.2 million and are adequate to cover any dividends 2.5 GHz band, with the spectrum rights running until 2030. declared in excess of the earnings for that year. In The acquisition of 4G spectrum would help StarHub offer addition, our net debt to 2011 EBITDA ratio is only 0.56 increased data capacity, improved speeds and reduced times, and hence, we have sufficient capacity to leverage latency of our mobile network. We are currently studying for strategic business investments or for possible future the allocation framework and will put in a bid that makes capital management exercises if need be. good business sense for us. Q: By the way, are there plans for a capital reduction exercise in 2013? Buck Chye: There are no current plans for a Q: In 2012, you made some mobile network enhancements, can you elaborate on them? Kin: In September, we announced the capital reduction exercise in 2013. Our long term target enhancement of our high-speed mobile broadband network for net debt to EBITDA has always been 1.5 – 2 times. with LTE and DC-HSPA+, which offer customers improved We are currently at 0.56 times, so there is sufficient peak downlink speeds of up to 75 Mbps and 42 Mbps fi nancial gearing ability. There continue to be industry respectively. Since end 2012, our LTE network reached and economic market uncertainties and we will review more than half of the island, covering key high traffic our cash flow requirements accordingly. areas and suburbs. Nationwide LTE network coverage is scheduled to be completed by 2013. To complement our Q: Your unsecured borrowings have gone up and you have also secured a new $220m loan. Can you elaborate a bit more? LTE network, our customers can use our advanced DCHSPA+ mobile network to enjoy fast, consistent data connectivity in indoor areas, including popular lifestyle Buck Chye: In September, the Group issued a and shopping destinations, and most of Singapore’s $220.0 million, 3.08% fi xed rate, 10-year medium underground network of MRT stations and tunnels. term notes due in 2022 under its $1 billion Multicurrency Medium Term Note (MTN) Programme. The proceeds We continue to invest substantially in our 3G mobile were used to fi nance scheduled bank loan repayments voice and data network so as to serve our customers in the last quarter of the year as well as to fi nance the better. We are enhancing our 3G mobile base stations, general corporate funding and CAPEX requirements using the 900MHz band, to boost coverage as we continue in the year. The MTN Programme provides StarHub to work closely with the relevant authorities as well as with greater funding diversity through additional residential and commercial building owners to improve funding options and ability to term out our debt in-building mobile reception. We are looking to complete maturity profi le. It also allows us to tap the bond the upgrade of our 3G mobile network with HD Voice, market and issue bonds in currencies other than SGD, offering customers significantly better sound quality for whenever appropriate. local voice calls. Q: What was your CAPEX for LTE and what operational savings were there from these new infrastructure investments? Q: Any new developments in your partnership with Vodafone? Kin: In 2011, we became Vodafone’s exclusive Buck Chye: The CAPEX to revenue ratio for 2012 was partner in Singapore, the key driver for this move was to 11% of sales. This includes the CAPEX for the initial phase serve the mobile communications needs of enterprises | IN DISCUSSION WITH STARHUB'S MANAGEMENT | Q: Why have you revised your SmartSurf plans? Kin: During the launch of our LTE service, we took the opportunity to revise our SmartSurf developments in the market in areas such as cloud, Next Gen NBN and enterprise mobility because it opens up opportunities for us to service the corporate customers. plans to be in line with current market trends. In 2009, low Next Gen NBN for example, allows us the reach to serve smartphone ownership and mobile data usage incentivised the SME market delivering creative solutions to meet us to offer larger data bundles on a promotional basis to their info-communications needs. SMEs face different encourage greater take-up of mobile data. With increased challenges from MNCs, especially in accessing resources ownership of smartphones and tablets, and exponential such as relevant skills and tools. In this area, we have growth in mobile data usage, we had to adopt a data pricing partnered with leading solution providers to develop a model that would be sustainable in the long run in order range of products and services to bridge the gap, for us to keep pace with our network and technological for example with our cloud computing service called upgrades. These efforts will ultimately ensure our ‘Argonar’ and our service-based storage and Microsoft customers can enjoy a consistent mobile Internet Office 365 solution, SMEs can tap on the benefits of our experience over the years. technology without having to invest upfront in on-premise solutions. They need only focus on usage on a pay-asQ: How do sales of devices on the iOS platform compare to those on the Android platform? Do you need to provide more handset subsidy costs? you-use basis. Ultimately, we aim to provide end-to-end solutions that will help SMEs stay competitive. In 2013, we expect to enhance our service offerings by adding Kin: Both platforms are currently running about even, more services to our portfolio for this segment. growth-wise. 2013 will be an interesting year for the mobile industry, with aggressive competition coming from BlackBerry 10 and Windows 8 Mobile. We are also expecting the costs of smartphones to remain competitive Q: You started offering cloud services to your corporate customers in 2012. Can you tell us more about this? but with more choices made available in the mid to lowerKevin: We launched our Infrastructure-as-a-Service (IaaS) end range. Generally, top-end smartphones take about six cloud platform and provided our customers with choices to seven months of our post-paid ARPU to recover. depending on their operational needs. Simply put, IaaS is a platform where we offer computing power to businesses, as Q: Why has the subscription of StarHub's Sports Channel increased in 2012? Tong Hai: StarHub continued to add value to well as meet the needs of those that are looking to outsource cost effectively their support operations (such as storage) on the cloud instead of building the platform internally. How Sports Group subscribers in 2012. Some of the new sports we differentiate our service from other more established content added to our portfolio include FOX SPORTS NEWS, players is our ability to include competitively-priced FOX SPORTS, STAR Sports, FOX SPORTS PLUS (HD), STAR access services and other value-added applications such Cricket and STAR Cricket HD. Our customers can also as StarHub’s Clean Pipe Anti-DDoS (Distributed Denial catch their favourite sports action ‘live’ as part of our of Service). Our customers get the benefit of an end-toTV Anywhere service. end solution from a single source, meeting all their cloud computing needs. We should note that programming costs have also increased for many of the traditional sports content mainstays over the years. As a result, we had to adjust the monthly subscription fee to reflect the value of the Q: Any significant successes in the enterprise space? Kevin: Our focus has been on the establishment of a stable, a physically and resilient network that premium content. The monthly Sports Group package boosts our capability to meet the region’s growing needs has now been revised to $19.26. Nevertheless, we would for high-speed bandwidth. Significantly, in August, ‘second screen’ solution which we delivered for Mandarin Orchard, where guests can access their TV programs, check messages and view fl ight information anywhere in Q: What improvements in customer service has StarHub developed in 2012? Diana: Our customer service division has once the hotel premises with hotel-issued iPads. With our fi xed again maintained its high standards. According to the and mobility services, we are honoured to have added 2012 Customer Service Index of Singapore, which is quite a number of local and global enterprises to the list managed by the Institute of Excellence at SMU and the of customers we have the pleasure to serve. Singapore Workforce Development Agency, StarHub has attained the highest customer satisfaction rating for Q: What are White Spaces? Mock: TV White Spaces are unused TV broadcast frequency bands that can be turned into premium broadband services and the second-highest satisfaction rating for mobile services. In addition, StarHub garnered 41 accolades (9 Star, 11 Gold and 21 Silver Awards) at wireless broadband delivery channels. These channels the Excellent Service Award 2012. This national award have a set of highly-desirable attributes such as the ability recognises individuals who have delivered quality service to travel over longer distances and penetrate more in 2012. It has the support of SPRING Singapore. obstacles than technologies using higher frequencies, such as Wi-Fi. Sometimes referred to as ‘Super Wi-Fi’, Given the rapid adoption of smartphones in Singapore, this can translate to better coverage, lower power StarHub launched ‘My StarHub’, an in-house developed consumption and reduced network costs. smart phone application that offers a convenient platform for customer self-help. The application allows you to view We signed a Memorandum of Understanding in April your bills, have access to frequently-asked service with the Institute for Infocomm Research and Microsoft questions and provides locations for all StarHub outlets. Singapore to formalise the establishment of the Singapore White Spaces Pilot Group, making Singapore a leading StarHub also launched ‘My Community’, an online StarHub test-bed and innovation zone for conducting commercial community platform where customers can engage with pilot projects using White Spaces technologies. each other on StarHub services and content or approach our customer service representatives who will be on hand Q: What about Consumer Analytics? Mock: In November, we announced the launch of ‘SmartHub’ an innovation platform in to answer questions. In addition, we introduced a new simplified bill format consumer and social analytics designed to strengthen to help customers read and understand their monthly Singapore’s capabilities in Interactive Digital Media (IDM) charges clearly yet comprehensively. Research & Development (R&D). The National Research Foundation-supported innovation platform will provide cityscale test-beds where home-grown and global players can jointly develop, test and launch their IDM-based products and services, not just for Singapore, but for the region. The platform is expected to help speed up the commercialisation process of R&D, increase the quality and quantity of IDM innovations, help businesses gain useful insights into consumer behaviour as well as encourage more collaborations between the academia, industry and public-sector organisations in developing | SENIOR MANAGEMENT | Neil Montefiore Buck Chye holds a Bachelor of Awards by the Call Centre Council CEO Accountancy from the former of Singapore. (Neil’s profile can be found on page 19 University of Singapore. He also of this report.) attended the Advanced Management Prior to her role in heading the Program at Harvard Business School Customer Service team, Diana was Tan Tong Hai in 1997. the Senior Manager of Human COO Resource in SCV. Tong Hai oversees the day-to day Chan Kin Hung operations and has direct responsibility Head, Marketing & Products Diana has a Graduate Diploma of StarHub’s Consumer Business Group, Kin Hung is responsible for the in Financial Management from Enterprise Business Group, Customer strategic analysis, planning, Singapore Institute of Management Service, Network Engineering & development and management of and is a Customer Operations Information Services, Wholesale & all consumer products, services and Performance Centre (COPC) Certified International Services and Government content that are provided on StarHub’s Six Sigma High Performance & Strategic Affairs divisions. multiple platforms. These offerings Management Techniques Specialist. include mobile, pay TV and broadband Tong Hai has over 20 years of services. He also oversees the Mock Pak Lum experience in the regional IT, Internet marketing function, which includes Chief Technology Offi cer and e-commerce industries. He was consumer marketing, branding, Pak Lum oversees the Network previously the President & CEO of marketing communications and Engineering and Information Singapore Computer Systems Ltd, customer value management. Services division. He is responsible and the President & CEO of Pacific for establishing StarHub’s technical Internet Ltd. He was instrumental in Kin Hung joined StarHub as Head of vision and leading all aspects of turning both companies around when Mobile Services in 2001, bringing with technology development. He also he was at their helms. him more than 15 years of product looks into the strategy for technology development, marketing, sales and platforms and external partnerships. Tong Hai holds a Bachelor of Electrical general management experience. Engineering (Honours) from the Kin Hung started his career in Digital Prior to joining StarHub, Pak Lum National University of Singapore. Equipment Corporation and Apple spent eight years in Pico Art Computer International Limited. He International Pte Ltd and GT Kwek Buck Chye also spent several years in Singapore Communications Pte Ltd. He then CFO holding various senior positions in moved to head 1-Net Singapore Pte Buck Chye has been the Chief the telecommunications industry. Ltd. He was also appointed the CEO Financial Officer of StarHub since Prior to joining StarHub, Kin Hung of the technology arm of MediaCorp September 2002. In addition to was the Managing Director of UUNET where he oversaw the IT, engineering his fi nancial portfolio, he also Singapore Pte Ltd. and transmission support functions. oversees the Risk Management, Corporate Administration, Business Kin Hung holds a Masters in Pak Lum holds a Bachelor of Electrical Performance and Purchasing & Electrical Engineering from the / Electronic Engineering from the Logistics divisions. He received the University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, National University of Singapore and prestigious Singapore Corporate as well as a Masters in Business a Masters in Business Administration Award for Best CFO in 2008. Administration from the Chinese from the University of California, University of Hong Kong. Los Angeles. Prior to joining StarHub, Buck Chye was CFO of ST Telemedia. He joined Diana Lee Kevin Lim planning and development, They also won the Gold award for IR in Chan Hoi San international network planning, Telecom in Singapore at the Triple A Head, Human Resource as well as the development of the Asset Asian Awards 2009. Hoi San is responsible for the overall wholesale business. direction of all human resource (HR) Jeannie joined StarHub in April services in the company. She is Kevin’s experience spans over more 2001 and was involved in bringing also responsible for formulating, than 27 years in various industries the company public in October 2004. developing and ensuring consistent and across the globe. He was most She has more than 20 years of implementation of the company’s recently from Intel where he worked experience in corporate, fi nancial, strategic HR policies and procedures. with telecom operators, vendors and marketing and community Hoi San has been credited for building regulators on the ecosystem for the communications across different a strong groundwork in StarHub’s HR proliferation of broadband through industries. Jeannie holds an honours division prior to the company’s official wireless broadband access technology. degree from the University of London, launch in April 2000. She also played At a global level, he was worldwide where she majored in Economics an integral part in the merger of division general manager of Lernout & and Financial Management. StarHub and SCV by aligning and Hauspie who was the leader in speech integrating the various business and language technology. Veronica Lai functions and resources, HR policies General Counsel & Company Secretary and procedures. Kevin received a Bachelor of Science Veronica embarked on her career Degree in Business Administration with StarHub in 1999, as part of the Hoi San holds a Masters of Human from Pepperdine University in team establishing the legal structure Resource Management from Rutgers California and a Masters Degree to support StarHub in its official launch University, USA and a Bachelor of in International Management from in April 2000 and thereafter in the Arts degree from Scripps College, the American Graduate School of merger of StarHub and SCV in 2002, The Claremont Group for Colleges in International Management. and StarHub’s IPO in 2004. Her the US. She has a graduate diploma responsibilities include the oversight in Personnel Management and is Jeannie Ong and management of all Legal matters also an Accredited Myers-Briggs Head, Corporate Communications of the StarHub Group. In addition, she Type Indicator Assessor as well as and Investor Relations serves as Company Secretary for the a Certified Evaluator of the Thomas Jeannie is responsible for building StarHub Group of companies. (DISC) Personal Profi le System. StarHub’s profi le and its corporate reputation. She is instrumental in Under her leadership, the StarHub Tim Goodchild providing strategic counsel in the areas Legal team was recognised with Head, Government and Strategic Affairs of corporate communications, investor various awards, including the Best Tim and his team are responsible for relations (IR) and community relations. Domestic Equity Deal in Singapore managing StarHub’s relationships and Best Deal for Singapore in 2005 for with its regulators, and for providing Jeannie received the Best IR Officer their role in the StarHub IPO by Asia regulatory support to StarHub’s lines in Singapore award by IR Magazine Legal Business, and the IT/Telco Inof business. Awards – South East Asia 2012 and the house Team of the Year Award in 2007 Best IR Professional in Singapore award at the ALB Southeast Asia Law Awards. Tim joined StarHub in 2004, and by the Corporate Governance Asia 2nd Veronica received the 2007 AsiaLaw has over 20 years experience in Asian Excellence Recognition Singapore In-house Counsel Award by telecommunications regulatory Awards 2012. She and her team Asia Law and Practice, and was named issues. His working career has clinched the Best IR Company in by Asia Legal Business as one of the included time with Telecom New Singapore at the same award. She Top 25 in-house counsels in Asia in Zealand, the Telecommunications | THE NUCLEUS CONNECT CONVERSATION | Fibre Broadband Gaining Traction David Storrie, CEO of NC, was appointed by StarHub to take the reins of the company since inception. He offers his viewpoint on Next Gen NBN developments in 2012 and onwards. Nucleus Connect (NC), StarHub’s various operational interactions between different entities, wholly-owned subsidiary was thus increasing the complexity in the overall service appointed by IDA to design, delivery process. In addition, there have been significant build and operate the active service delivery delays at the Network Company (NetCo) infrastructure of the Next Gen level and this has generated frustration from both RSPs NBN in 2009. Since then, NC has and end-users. Delays in securing access to commercial launched two central offices which buildings for passive infrastructure deployment have also house equipment to run the Next affected the corporate subscription rates. All these delays Gen NBN based on Gigabit Passive have been widely reported in the local media. Optical Network and Optical Ethernet access technologies. In view of this, we continue to work closely with the NetCo NC has also released their IDAto identify and resolve the impediments, as well as with approved competitive wholesale RSPs and end-users for rescheduling of field services to interconnection offer (ICO) ease the installation process. The NetCo on their part has pricing for Retail Service Providers increased installation quotas during spikes, especially (RSPs). Finally, NC established a during IT tradeshows. IDA has brought forward the review 24x7 Network Operations Centre of the NetCo’s ICO earlier than originally planned and the to monitor their entire network weekly installation capacity has been increased from operations from one central 2,050 to 3,750 weekly. surveillance point. How many RSPs are currently signed up? What is your Is fibre broadband gaining traction in strategy in attracting new customers? Singapore? What are the obstacles About three years ago, we created a future-proof active and challenges faced? infrastructure in this city-state. We are pleased to According to the IDA’s statistics, say at that time we managed to secure all the key RSPs 99.95% NETWORK PERFORMANCE HAS CONSISTENTLY EXCEEDED OUR ICO COMMITMENT, ACHIEVING BETTER THAN 99.95% OF NETWORK AVAILABILITY. As Singapore’s Official OpCo, we take our role seriously when it comes to providing an efficient, scalable and secured active network infrastructure. entrance of new RSPs providing pure How does NC fare in the area of network performance? fibre packages with our services. Since commencement of commercial operations back in September 2010, our network performance has Any product upgrades consistently exceeded our ICO commitment, achieving in the pipeline? Our better than 99.95% of network availability and less than Product enhancement is an connection the stipulated hours for Mean Time to Repair (MTTR). important area to us. We continually fault rate is The Quality of Service as well as performance levels look for and select the best-offor latency, jitter and packet loss are also above our ICO well below breed applications for high-level commitments. Faring better than the industry average performance, reliability, and 1% of our is our connection fault rate, which stayed well below uninterrupted operability. Plans installed 1% of our installed base. are underway for the launch of base.” a new product. Soon, we will be As Singapore’s Official Operating Company (OpCo), ready to support mobile operators we take our role seriously when it comes to providing with their backhaul needs. We an efficient, scalable and secured active network are in the midst of a trial and we infrastructure to support RSPs in delivering Next Gen are confident of commencing NBN services. implementations in 2013. We are also working on a large-scale What are your goals in 2013? IPv6 adoption and optical network 2013 marks the third year since the rollout of the terminal enhancements, while high-speed fibre network and we believe this is the performing regularupdates and year that the take-up of Next Gen NBN services network expansions corresponding will pick up. Amidst increasing sign-ups, we will to customers’ take-up. be working closely with RSPs on customising their service offerings, maintaining high Service Level | HUBBING IN REVIEW | PERSONAL SOLUTIONS | Personal ENGINEERING THE NEXT GENERATION MOBILE NETWORK Singapore’s mobile penetration rate continues to be one of the highest in Solutions: the world, at about 151% by the end of 2012. While the dominance of both Apple and Samsung in the smartphone and tablet revolution is clear, there Phone are other handset manufacturers introducing new form factors and innovation in their product offerings. The result is that Singapore mobile users now hold more than one mobile device at any one time. The popularity of smartphones and tablets also drives mobile data usage, which more than doubled between 2009 and 2012. Singapore operators accelerated their rollout of higher capacity mobile networks to meet these escalating demands. In April, we selected Nokia Siemens Networks to build its LTE network. In addition, as part of the agreement, they are also modernising our 2G network, helping us to reduce power consumption generated by our network equipment by up to 50%, while providing improved downlink speeds. To this end, they provided us with their Single RAN (radio access network) platform, built around the compact, energy efficient Flexi Our new SmartSurf plans come with Multiradio Base Station, which per-second billing, unlimited free enables us to run 2G and LTE concurrently on the 1800 MHz band. incoming calls, free conversion of The company also provided their SMS to MMS, and a price cap for Evolved Packet Core platform as well as software for personalised customer local data use. experience management. In September, we announced the | HUBBING IN REVIEW | PERSONAL SOLUTIONS | including mobile TV, video and music streaming, cloud and entertainment on a single services and social networking. mobile device with a single mobile service subscription. Paired with our For a start, StarHub Mobile customers could enjoy our enhanced mobile broadband network LTE service in the Central Business District, as well as at Smartphone and no-bill-shock mobile data plans, Singapore Changi Airport and Singapore Expo Convention users may the PadFone 1 and 2 are perfect devices for road warriors. and Exhibition Centre. By the end of 2012, customers monitor could already connect to our LTE network across half of their data We were also privileged to participate Singapore, covering key high human traffic areas and suburbs. Our users can expect nationwide LTE network usage via in the launch of the new Windows 8 coverage by end 2013. the ‘My platform, the latest iteration of the StarHub’ world’s leading operating system that To complement the LTE network, we also switched on in-house incorporates an all-new tiled-based advanced DC-HSPA+ mobile network, doubling the current developed touch interface to reflect the growing 3G downlink speed to up to 42 Mbps. This enhancement app.” popularity of tablets and smartphones. was aimed at providing our mobile customers with fast, At launch, we were the only operator consistent data connectivity at indoor areas, including in Singapore that offered StarHub apps popular retail malls and most of Singapore’s underground in the Windows Store that allowed network of MRT stations and tunnels. customers to check their latest bills and data usage, and watch premium Also in September, we introduced four new smartphone channels via our TV Anywhere service, price plans SmartSurf Lite, SmartSurf Value, SmartSurf among others. Premium and SmartSurf Elite. The new SmartSurf plans come with our iconic mobile features, including per-second ENABLING APPS billing, unlimited free incoming calls, free conversion of In August, in collaboration with DBS, SMS to MMS, and a price cap for local data use. EZ-Link and MasterCard, we introduced the NFC app SmartWallet, The new plans also offered subscribers data bundles a seamless and secure digital wallet of 2GB to 12GB, with an option for them to upsize their service. StarHub, DBS and EZrespective data bundle by 1GB at a promotional rate of Link are part of the consortium $2.14 monthly. Should customers use more than the local which received IDA’s NFC Call for data bundle of their mobile plan, excess local data usage Collaboration award in October 2011, is charged at a promotional rate of $6.42 per GB. This is a to develop an interoperable mobile significant reduction from the former rate of $3.48 per MB. NFC infrastructure and mobile Android or iOS smartphone users can monitor their data payment services in Singapore. usage via the ‘My StarHub’ in-house developed app, which is available for download on Google Play and the App Store. Our SmartWallet allows mobile customers to enjoy the convenience of SUPPORTING NEW PLATFORMS using three contactless payment cards In 2012, we launched more than 60 new smartphone and on an NFC enabled smartphone – DBS tablet models. These include the popular Apple iPhone 5, One.Tap, NFC ez-link purse and NFC HTC One X+, LG Optimus L9, Nokia Lumia 920, Samsung FEVO Pre-paid MasterCard. GALAXY Note II LTE, Samsung GALAXY S III LTE and Significant Achievements Apr Selected Nokia Siemens Networks for 4G, 2G modernisation Aug Unveiled SmartWallet, an NFC smartphone app for secure payment and lifestyle services Sept Enhanced high-speed mobile broadband network with LTE and DC-HSPA+ We are committed to setting fair prices and communicating them as clearly as possible. well as to make payment at MasterCard them. We are naturally well-positioned personalisation and social features, merchants with NFC FEVO Pre-paid to provide trusted recommendations all built upon a secure application MasterCard issued by EZ-Link. to our customers, and APPvisor is platform, to create a trusted, valued designed to do just that. relationship with our customers. Future payment functionalities will be offered by various payment service APPvisor showcases trusted weekly ENRICHING PARTNERSHIPS providers, including DBS, EZ-Link, recommendations from local celebrity In 2011, we became Vodafone’s MasterCard and Visa. Also in the near contributors Techgoondu and Mr exclusive partner in Singapore, the future, we will launch a whole host of Brown, as well as from the StarHub key driver for this move was to serve new lifestyle NFC services, such as the Editor. In addition, APPvisor makes it the mobile communications needs of ability to buy and download electronic easy to discover suitable applications enterprises in Singapore as well as to tickets to movies and events, earn and by partnering with Quixey, a meet the growing demands of redeem loyalty points, top up StarHub contextual app search engine roaming customers. | HUBBING IN REVIEW | HOME SOLUTIONS | Home LEADING THE WAY 2012 marked the 20th year that StarHub has successfully operated our pay TV business. StarHub TV Solutions: started in 1992 as Singapore Cable Vision (SCV) – Singapore’s fi rst cable TV service boasting a humble line-up of three channels. By TV & 1995, SCV was licensed to operate cable TV services delivering up to 50 channels and in a short span of time, had signed up 15,000 households. Fast forward to 2012 Internet and StarHub TV now carries over 200 channels and has some 536,000 households subscribing to us. Despite competition from other operators and consumer access to a myriad of alternative media platforms, we have been able to maintain our pay TV leadership by providing the most comprehensive range of TV content for the mass and speciality audience. This year, we also reinforced our commitment to expand our pay TV offerings to stay ahead of the competition. In addition, we continue to spearhead a multi-platform strategy for TV content and introduced new innovative services such as TV Anywhere and Smart TV, and new content creation such as Sunsilk Academy Fantasia. MORE CHANNELS, MORE COMPELLING CONTENT We maintained our content leadership by offering almost StarHub TV started as SCV back in 1992, 30 new channels into an already offering only three channels. We now rich content line-up. offer more than 200 channels. In the news category, we launched Singapore’s fi rst HD | HUBBING IN REVIEW | HOME SOLUTIONS | To cater to customers’ increasing fans (Comedy Central Asia), Korean entertainment fans (KBS appetite for current and on-demand World HD) and Chinese viewers (Jiangsu Satellite Channel). content, we scored a coup in securing the same-date availability of TVB Five new On-Demand channels were also introduced – series for our VOD offering, as well About FOXCRIME Play, FOX Play, FX Play, National Geographic as adding a compelling catalogue of 30 new Play and STAR World Play. current Malaysian movies through our channels partnership with MIG Pictures. EXPANDING SPORTS CONTENT added to The key highlight, in terms of content acquisition, was We also expanded a stellar line-up of an already our impressive line-up of sports content, making us the Hindi content to include Channel [V] rich Home for Sports content. India, EROS Bollywood On Demand content and SONY MAX. Tamil viewers can line-up, In January, StarHub was appointed the official broadcaster previews and an hour-long highlights show. The content rights for online and mobile platforms were also included. In December, we acquired the broadcast rights to FOX SPORTS portfolio of multimedia assets including TV, broadband and mobile services. This comprises six FOX SPORTS TV channels (which bring the number of dedicated sports channels on StarHub TV to 22), the broadband video player FOX SPORTS PLAY and the ‘live’ streaming mobile service, FOX SPORTS MOBILE. StarHub TV sports fans could not only watch the FOX SPORTS line-up of premium sports content, they could also catch the 2014 World Cup qualifiers, NBA basketball, major tennis tournaments, major golf tournaments, Indian Premier League cricket and local sporting events like the Standard Chartered Marathon Singapore. INNOVATION ON MULTIPLE SCREENS AND DEVICES With the ownership of multiple personal devices and the increasing demand for entertainment content on the go, we are in the position to offer customers access to our rich TV content anytime, anywhere. To this end, we introduced the TV Anywhere service in June. A total of 36 channels, including fi ve streamed in HD, are available to StarHub TV customers across PCs, Macs, iPads and tablets. The channels span diverse genres (kids, comedy, drama, news and sports), appealing to a broad range of customer tastes. the title sponsorship of the 2012 League Cup and renamed it the Besides that, StarHub TV customers subscribing to StarHub League Cup. The matches the Sports Group can gain full access to FOX SPORTS were shown on SuperSports Arena, channels via FOX SPORTS PLAY on TV Anywhere. The StarHub TV Online and StarHub TV FOX SPORTS PLAY showcases an entire suite of sports on Mobile. coverage so that sports fans can catch up on their favourite sport at their convenience. StarHub also became the official broadcaster of the UEFA EURO 2012™, Also via TV Anywhere, subscribers to the FOX Movies Pack offering all 31 tournament matches and the STAR Chinese Movies Pack can have access to the ‘live’ across multiple platforms. latest Hollywood and Asian blockbuster movies, concerts, Customers could opt for the acclaimed original series and award-winning Asian multi-screen access on Internet documentaries on FOX Movies Play and STAR Movies | HUBBING IN REVIEW | HOME SOLUTIONS | Sunsilk Academy Fantasia to Singapore. Based on a popular and internationally-successful singing competition, this multi-platform singing competition brings reality TV to a whole new level where viewers get to see the makings of a star from start to fi nish. The ultimate winner of Sunsilk Academy Fantasia bagged the coveted prize of a two-year singing contract and a recording album with a renowned local record label. The 10-week competition was StarHub’s biggest ever foray into content production. As part of our multi-platform strategy, viewers could view and identify with the contestants on TV, mobile and online. A dedicated Academy Fantasia Channel was made available, allowing viewers to catch ‘live’ non-stop excitement within the Academy. We also offered a simulcast of the Academy Fantasia Channel online and on StarHub TV on Mobile. StarHub also developed a special mobile app, the Sunsilk Academy Fantasia app which was fully loaded with biographies of the fi nalists, photo and media galleries that allowed viewers to check out exclusive photos and videos taken during events and activities. Users could even vote for their favourite contestant via the app. The star attraction of the app was the karaoke function. It enabled users to sing along to lyrics on a minus-one track, and conveniently share their singing pieces thereafter via Facebook. DEVELOPING OUR RESIDENTIAL BROADBAND SERVICES In October, we offered two ultra-high speed fibre broadband plans designed to meet the needs of gamers. Called MaxInfinity LVL99 100 Mbps and MaxInfinity LVL99 150 Mbps, they feature local download speeds of up to 100 Mbps and 150 Mbps respectively, with priority given to local gaming traffic for a better gaming experience. Both TV Anywhere provides plans offer an assured typical international download 36 channels on PCs & speed of 15 Mbps 95% of the time during peak hours, and unlimited international bandwidth during off-peak hours. mobile devices. In addition, MaxInfi nity LVL99 subscribers also receive special advantages through StarHub’s partnership with gaming portal. MaxInfi nity LVL99 will continue to evolve to meet the needs and demands of all Significant Achievements Singapore gamers. In December, StarHub introduced a pay-as-you-watch More than Jan TV plan made exclusively for our residential broadband 6,500 TV Appointed Offi cial Broadcaster customers who do not have a StarHub TV subscription. shows & and Principal Sponsor of LionsXII Called Anytime TV, this service allows customers to access StarHub TV’s on-demand library of more than 6,500 TV movies on StarHub’s Feb shows and movies as well as 14 complimentary StarHub TV channels. pay-asAppointed Offi cial Broadcaster of 2012 Great-Eastern-YEO’s you-watch S.League Season The year also saw us enhance our existing Internet content service fi ltering service, SafeSurf, to stay relevant to customers’ Anytime TV.” Mar needs and empower customers to do more with our Secured Broadcast Rights to services. The new SafeSurf Service Portal now includes a UEFA EURO 2012™ module which allows parents to customise a video message that will appear when their children try to access websites blocked by them. Jun Celebrated 20 Years of Pay TV Titled Birds and the Bees 2.0, this module creates an Launched TV Anywhere opportunity for parents to talk to their children about subjects like sex and the appropriate use of the Internet July when their children enquire about the video message. Produced Sunsilk This service was chosen as ‘Product Innovation of the Academy Fantasia Year Award’ in the Singapore Advertising Hall of Fame Awards 2012. Oct Launched MaxInfinity LVL99 We made inroads into the residential broadband market Fibre Broadband Gaming Plans by collaborating with the developers of CityLife@Tampines executive condominium to offer a complimentary oneyear subscription to our 100 Mbps fibre broadband plan to Dec each homeowner. We will also provide CityLife@Tampines Launched Anytime TV residents free Wi-Fi access at common areas. The Announced HD Streaming on condominium is due to be completed in 2016. TV Anywhere | HUBBING IN REVIEW | BUSINESS SOLUTIONS | Business SUCCEEDING IN THE ENTERPRISE MARKET StarHub’s continued Data & Internet revenue growth of 5% YoY in Fixed Solutions: Network services can be largely attributed to higher take-ups of our domestic data and Internet services, as well as an increasing demand Data & for StarHub’s customised enterprise solutions. A case in point would be Mandarin Orchard Singapore’s adoption of Internet StarHub’s customised in-room Internet Protocol Television (IPTV) system, the fi rst hotel in Singapore to offer such an integrated solution and Voice to their guests. The system connects guests in all of the hotel’s 1,000-plus rooms to a host of service conveniences at the touch of an icon on all hotel-issued iPads. The iPad, connected to the hotel’s Wi-Fi network, provides guests with the ability to navigate through StarHub’s IPTV system via an on-screen remote control. The system simplifies how they view room messages, select StarHub TV channels and movies-on-demand, and check real-time fl ight information. Future developments include the ability to browse current promotions at the hotel and The Mandarin Gallery, control the room ambience and enjoy the facility of ordering in-room dining service. These ‘second-screen’ iPads are available for loan from Meritus Club Lounge. Guests also have the option to download and access the application on their personal iPad. Plans are underway to extend the second screen | HUBBING IN REVIEW | BUSINESS SOLUTIONS | The ASE was built to accommodate the growing demand for bandwidth in the region, especially in Singapore, where there is an increasing demand and usage of mission-critical The applications to service the region. 7,800km ASE that Other leading carriers involved stretches in the building and operations of the ASE include Japan-based NTT from Communications Corporation, Singapore Malaysia-based Telekom Malaysia to Japan and Philippines-based PLDT. This went 7,800km undersea cable stretches operational from Singapore to Japan, and boasts in August a total carrying capacity exceeding 2012.” 15 terabits per second and has the capability to incorporate 100Gbps optical technology in the future. What is unique about the undersea cable system is the fact that its route between Singapore and Japan covers the shortest distance so as to maximize reliability and minimise latency. It has also been specially designed to avoid earthquake and typhoon damage. The undersea cable currently has landing points in Singapore, Malaysia, their dynamic computing and storage needs, coupled with a the Philippines, and Japan, with self-service provisioning platform which makes computing Hong Kong soon to follow. ASE is in the cloud a breeze. also slated to provide seamless interconnections with other major In collaboration with Microsoft, we enabled the SMB and cable systems connecting Europe, Enterprise segments with a powerful, simple, and secure the Middle East, the United States communications and collaboration solution based in the and other parts of Asia. cloud – Microsoft Office 365. Customers raved about the ease of use and familiarity as they transitioned from legacy BUILDING FOR THE versions to the cloud. PUBLIC CLOUD 2012 was also the year when StarHub Beyond this, with our Argonar IaaS and associated unveiled ‘Argonar’, our scalable managed services, we were selected by the Singapore IaaS platform. government as one of the service providers of cloud Significant Achievements Feb Launched IPTV System with ‘Second Screen’ Solution from StarHub at Mandarin Orchard Singapore Aug Asia Submarine-Cable Express started operations between Singapore and Japan Oct Launched Government Public Cloud Service Nov StarHub Launched Innovation Platform in Consumer and Social Analytics In 2013, StarHub will continue to innovation platforms in consumer and more context-relevant incentives build our business solutions brand social analytics that are designed to delivered by the business operators, that has already garnered accolades strengthen Singapore’s capabilities service providers and venue owners. in 2012 from Superbrands, the world’s in Interactive Digital Media Research Providing such enhanced capabilities leading arbiter of branding for the & Development. in analytics will help Singapore consumer and business space. We were attract more international consumer recognised by Business Superbrands LiveLabs and SmartHub will help and lifestyle industry players to to be the ninth most-trusted brand to sharpen the competitive edge of establish their presence here. in Singapore, and the only company Singapore companies and position that is solely focused on the Singapore Singapore strongly and favourably SmartHub is StarHub’s major foray market. We were also listed on the MIS as a regional hub for consumer and into R&D in the area of interactive Asia Strategic 100 index of the most social analytics. It is hoped that digital media; and this initiative is influential ICT companies in 2012. businesses, particularly those in the in line with Singapore’s vision to be retail, tourism and hospitality sectors, the preferred platform for innovation | GROUP FINANCIAL REVIEW | Group Financial Review 1.1 OPERATING REVENUE Year ended 31 December 2012 2011 Incr/(Decr) $m % $m % $m % Mobile revenue 1,224.2 50.6 1,217.6 52.7 6.6 0.5 Pay TV revenue 396.3 16.4 376.0 16.3 20.3 5.4 Broadband revenue 249.4 10.3 241.7 10.5 7.7 3.2 Fixed Network Services revenue 357.7 14.8 336.7 14.6 21.0 6.2 Total service revenue 2,227.6 92.0 2,172.0 93.9 55.6 2.6 Sale of equipment 194.0 8.0 140.0 6.1 54.0 38.6 Total 2,421.6 100.0 2,312.0 100.0 109.6 4.7 The Group's operating revenue for the year ended 31 December 2012 ( FY12 ) increased $109.6 million or 4.7% year-on-year (YoY) to $2,421.6 million due to higher service revenue and sales of equipment. Service revenue was up $55.6 million or 2.6% to $2,227.6 million with revenue increases in all services. Fixed Network Services recorded the highest revenue increase YoY at $21.0 million or 6.2% with growth in both Data & Internet and Voice services, followed by Pay TV revenue which grew $20.3 million or 5.4% YoY. The increase in Pay TV revenue was contributed by the full year impact of a $2 monthly subscription price increase which was effective since August 2011, higher revenue from HD set-top box rentals, add-on channels and further boosted by the UEFA EURO 2012 event in the 1st half of FY12. Broadband revenue was $7.7 million or 3.2% higher in FY12 with a larger subscriber base and a higher mix of customers on higher speed subscription plans. Mobile revenue recorded a gain of $6.6 million or 0.5% with revenue from Post-paid services increasing $12.7 million or 1.3% in FY12. Pre-paid services revenue was lower by $6.1 million or 2.4% when compared to last year ended 31 December 2011 (“FY11”). Revenue from the sale of equipment increased $54.0 million or 38.6% from FY11 due to higher quantities sold and higher average selling prices. 1.2 OPERATING EXPENSES Year ended 31 December 2012 2011 Incr/(Decr) Details of total operating expenses are as follows: (i) COST OF SALES Year ended 31 December 2012 2011 Incr/(Decr) $m $m $m % Cost of equipment sold 440.7 383.4 57.3 14.9 Cost of services 339.7 298.3 41.4 13.9 Traffic expenses 230.5 246.8 (16.3) (6.6) Total 1,010.9 928.5 82.4 8.9 Cost of sales in FY12 increased $82.4 million or 8.9% to $1,010.9 million when compared to FY11. The higher expenses were attributed to higher cost of equipment sold and cost of services, which were partially mitigated by lower traffic expenses. As a percentage of operating revenue, cost of sales ratio was higher at 41.7% in FY12 as against 40.2% in FY11. Cost of equipment sold The higher cost of equipment sold in FY12 at $440.7 million or 14.9% increase were driven by new models of Android and Window devices (such as Samsung SIII, HTC, LG, Nokia Lumia, ASUS PadFone) and Apple devices (such as iPhone 5, iPad & iPad mini) which led to higher quantities sold in FY12. Higher unit costs of these higher end smart devices also contributed to the increase in cost of equipment sold when compared to FY11. As a ratio of operating revenue, cost of equipment sold was at 18.2% in FY12 compared to 16.6% in FY11. Cost of services Cost of services in FY12 increased $41.4 million or 13.9% from FY11 to $339.7 million. The increase was driven by new TV content, higher programming and production costs for existing and renewed contracts and higher cost of services in our Fixed Network and Next Gen NBN services as take-up increased. The UEFA EURO 2012 programming costs in the 1st half of FY12 also contributed to the increase. As a percentage of operating revenue, cost of services was higher at 14.0% compared to 12.9% in FY11. Traffic expenses Traffic expenses in FY12 were $16.3 million or 6.6% lower than FY11 at $230.5 million. The lower expenses were attributable to lower inter-operator SMS traffic, reduced traffic volume and lower inter-connection rates for our international outbound traffic. As a percentage of operating revenue, traffic expenses were lower at 9.5% in FY12, down from 10.7% in FY11. (ii) OTHER OPERATING EXPENSES Year ended 31 December 2012 2011 Incr/(Decr) $m $m $m % Staff costs 265.9 266.9 (1.0) (0.4) Operating leases 131.3 135.5 (4.2) (3.1) Marketing and promotions 147.4 169.6 (22.2) (13.1) Allowance for doubtful receivables 14.8 14.7 0.1 0.9 Repair and maintenance 63.2 68.0 (4.8) (7.1) Other expenses 95.0 74.2 20.8 28.0 Subtotal 717.6 728.9 (11.3) (1.5) Depreciation and amortisation (net of asset grants) 272.5 277.8 (5.3) (1.9) | GROUP FINANCIAL REVIEW | Operating leases Operating lease expenses decreased $4.2 million or 3.1% YoY to $131.3 million in FY12. The lower operating lease expenses were due to reduced international lease capacity costs which were offset by higher lease expenses for Next Gen NBN network and office rental. As a percentage of operating revenue, operating lease expenses were lower at 5.4% in FY12. Marketing and promotions Marketing and promotion expenses at $147.4 million in FY12 were $22.2 million or 13.1% lower than FY11, due mainly to lower acquisition and recontract expenses. As a percentage of operating revenue, marketing and promotion expenses were 6.1%, down from 7.3% in FY11. Allowance for doubtful receivables Allowance for doubtful receivables at $14.8 million or 0.7% of service revenue was comparable to that in FY11. Repair and maintenance Repair and maintenance expenses decreased $4.8 million or 7.1% to $63.2 million, due mainly to the reversal of excess accruals during the year as lower costs or rates were finalised for the maintenance of our local and international network systems. As a percentage of operating revenue, repair and maintenance ratio was lower at 2.6% in FY12 when compared to 2.9% in FY11. Other expenses Other expenses were $20.8 million or 28.0% higher than FY11 at $95.0 million. The higher expenses were mainly attributable to higher license fees, office & network occupancy expenses, and network construction expenses after netting off a lower cost recovery and reduced exchange gain in FY12. The higher expenses were also partially mitigated by lower losses arising from fixed assets written off this year. As a percentage of operating revenue, other expenses were higher at 3.9% in FY12 when compared to 3.2% in FY11. Depreciation and amortisation (net of asset grants) Depreciation and amortisation expenses were 1.9% lower YoY at $272.5 million in FY12. The lower expenses were mainly due to fully depreciated property, plant and equipment and intangible assets, offset by higher depreciation from additions of fixed assets. As a percentage of operating revenue, depreciation and amortisation expenses were 11.3%, down from 12.0% in FY11. 1.3 PROFITABILITY Year ended 31 December 2012 2011 Incr/(Decr) $m $m $m % Operating revenue 2,421.6 2,312.0 109.6 4.7 Operating expenses (2,001.0) (1,935.2) 65.9 3.4 Other income 26.7 21.4 5.3 25.1 Profit from operations 447.3 398.2 49.1 12.3 Finance income 4.1 2.1 2.0 93.6 Finance expenses (20.0) (20.5) (0.5) (2.4) Profit before taxation 431.4 379.8 51.6 13.6 Taxation (72.1) (64.3) 7.7 12.0 Profit for the year 359.3 315.5 43.8 13.9 Finance income was higher at $4.1 million due to higher rates and deposits in FY12. Finance expenses in FY12 were $0.5 million or 2.4% lower from FY11 at $20.0 million. Profit before taxation increased $51.6 million or 13.6% to $431.4 million in FY12 as a result of the better performance from operations. The Group’s taxation was up 12.0% to $72.1 million as a result of the higher taxable profits when compared to FY11. The effective tax rate for FY12 was 16.7% compared to 16.9% in FY11. Consequently, the Group’s profit for the year rose $43.8 million or 13.9% to $359.3 million from $315.5 million in FY11. 1.4 LIQUIDITY AND RESOURCES Year ended 31 December 2012 2011 $m $m Profit before taxation 431.4 379.8 Non-cash items & net finance expenses adjustments 270.1 278.1 Net change in working capital 42.0 38.3 Income tax paid (54.0) Net cash from operating activities 689.5 696.2 Net cash used in investing activities (267.7) (244.0) Net cash used in financing activities (289.0) (510.5) Net change in cash and cash equivalents 132.8 (58.3) Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of the year 179.2 237.5 Cash and cash equivalents at end of the year 312.0 179.2 Free Cash Flow(1) 416.8 449.7 (1) Free Cash Flow refers to net cash from operating activities less purchase of fixed assets in the cash flow statement. Net cash from operating activities was $689.5 million in FY12 as compared to $696.2 million in FY11. The decrease of $6.7 million was due to income tax payment of $54.0 million in FY12 which offset the increase in cash generated from higher profits from operations, increased positive change in working capital from higher trade and other payables, increased net balance due to related parties, and increase in other receivables and prepayments. Total net cash outflow from investing activities at $267.7 million was $23.7 million higher than FY11, due to higher CAPEX payments, which were partially mitigated by higher receipts from interest and disposal of fixed assets. Total CAPEX payments in FY12 amounted to $272.7 million or 11.3% of operating revenue. Free cash flow decreased $32.9 million or 7.3% YoY to $416.8 million, due mainly to higher CAPEX payment and tax paid which resulted in lower net cash from operating activities. | GROUP FINANCIAL REVIEW | 1.5 GEARING As at 31 December 2012, the Group’s total borrowings amounted to $687.5 million, $25.0 million more than FY11. In September 2012, the Group issued a $220.0 million 10-year medium term note under its Medium Term Note Program established a year ago. The Note matures in September 2022 and bears a fixed coupon rate of 3.08%p.a. The proceeds from the notes issue were used to repay the current portion of bank loans due within 12 months and to term out the maturity profile of the Group’s borrowings to longer term. Net debt as at 31 December 2012 was $375.5 million, 22.3% lower compared to $483.3 million in FY11. The Group’s net debt to 2011 EBITDA was 0.56 times as at 31 December 2012 as against 0.71 times in FY11. 1.6 FINANCIAL POSITION As at 31 December 2012, the Group’s total non-current assets was $1,190.6 million. This was $2.3 million higher than a year ago due to higher net book value of property, plant and equipment offset by lower net book value of intangible assets. The Group’s total current assets as at 31 December 2012 were $618.0 million, an increase of $83.2 million or 15.6% from FY11. The increase was mainly due to higher cash and cash equivalents, which partially offset the lower other receivables, deposits and prepayments, trade receivables, inventories and balance due from related parties. Total current liabilities for the Group were lower at $879.2 million as at 31 December 2012 as compared to $903.3 million in FY11. The reduction was from repayment of bank loans offset by higher trade and other payables, balances due to related parties and provision for taxation. The Group’s total non-current liabilities increased from $797.2 million in FY11 to $885.9 million in FY12, with higher long term borrowings, deferred tax liabilities, and trade and other payables, being offset by lower deferred income balance. As at 31 December 2012, the Group’s shareholders’ equity was higher at $43.5 million when compared to $22.6 million as at 31 December 2011. 1.7 CAPITAL EXPENDITURE COMMITMENTS The Group’s total outstanding capital expenditure commitments in FY12 were $76.7 million higher than FY11 at $271.8 million. The current outstanding capital expenditure commitments comprised the purchase of leasehold land, development of new support system to improve fulfillment of customers’ demand and experience, expansion of our international undersea cable infrastructure and domestic network infrastructure. | CORPORATE GOVERNANCE | Corporate Governance Transparency, accountability, integrity and sustainability are the guiding principles of corporate governance for StarHub. CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT The Company is committed to upholding high standards of corporate governance to enhance shareholder value. Transparency, accountability, integrity and sustainability are the guiding principles of corporate governance for StarHub. CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT 2012 This Report sets out the Company’s corporate governance framework, with reference to the principles of the revised Code of Corporate Governance (Code) issued by the Monetary Authority of Singapore on 2 May 2012. The revised Code took effect for annual reports relating to fi nancial years commencing from 1 November 2012. For the fi nancial year ended 31 December 2012, the Company has substantially complied with the revised key principles and supporting guidelines set out in the revised Code, except where specifically identified and disclosed in this report. In developing our corporate governance policies and practices, the Company adopts a balanced approach by observing the spirit, and not just the letter of the revised Code. We believe that when good governance becomes second nature and is well managed, the Board can focus on the Group’s strategy and deliver a performance culture that drives long-term value creation. 1. BOARD MATTERS THE BOARD’S CONDUCT OF AFFAIRS The Company is led by an effective Board. The Board is collectively responsible and is accountable to shareholders for managing the Company’s business and the long-term success of the Company. The Board works closely with Management to achieve this objective and Management is accountable to the Board. The Board’s Role The Board’s key responsibilities include: l providing leadership, setting strategic objectives and ensuring that the necessary fi nancial and human resources are in place for the Company to meet its objectives. In each fi nancial year, Management presents the proposed annual strategy to the Board for the following fi nancial year. | CORPORATE GOVERNANCE | l setting the Company’s values and standards (including ethical standards), and ensuring that obligations to shareholders and other stakeholders are understood and met; l assessing and approving key operational and business initiatives, major funding and investments proposals; l considering sustainability issues, such as environmental and social factors, as part of the Company’s strategic formulation; and l ensuring the Group’s compliance with all relevant laws and regulations. All Directors are required to objectively discharge their duties and responsibilities at all times, as fiduciaries in the best interests of the Company and all its shareholders at all times. The Company has established authority and approval limits for capital and operating expenditure, acquisition and disposal of investments, procurement of goods and services, bank facilities and cheque signatories at the Board level. Authority and approval sub-limits for such transactions are delegated to various Management levels to optimise operational efficiency. Such internal operating and authorisation authority limits are set out in a policy which clearly defi nes the matters reserved for the Board’s decision. Board Committees To optimise effectiveness, the Board delegates the authority to make specific decisions to the Audit Committee (AC), Nominating Committee (NC), Executive Resource and Compensation Committee (ERCC) and Strategy Committee (SC). Additional committees may be formed when necessary to look into specific areas of oversight. With the increasing emphasis on risk governance and greater complexity in the business and economic environment, the Board has considered and will establish a new Risk Committee (RC) in 2013 to assist it in carrying out its responsibility of overseeing the Group’s risk management framework and policies. Each Board Committee operates and makes decisions on matters within its terms of reference and applicable limits of authority, and recommends the course of action for the Board’s consideration and decision. The Chairmen of the various Committees will report to the Board the outcome of the Board Committees’ meetings and such reports, together with the minutes of the Board Committees’ meetings, are incorporated in the minutes of the Board meetings. Further details of the Board Committees’ composition and specific responsibilities are described in subsequent relevant sections of this report, except for SC, which details are set forth below: The SC comprises the following non-executive Directors and co-opted members who are independent of Management: l Nihal Vijaya Devadas Kaviratne CBE (Chairman) l Tan Guong Ching l Steven Terrell Clontz l Lim Ming Seong l Liu Chee Ming l Robert J. Sachs l Stephen Geoffrey Miller (co-opted) l Yong Lum Sung (co-opted) The SC supports and advises the Board and Management in the formulation and implementation of the Group’s strategies with a view to grow and enhance shareholder value. The main responsibilities of the SC are: The Company’s Articles of Association allow Board meetings to be held via telephonic and video conference. A total of six Board meetings were held in the fi nancial year ended 31 December 2012. A matrix showing the Board members’ participation and attendance at the Board and Board Committee meetings held in the fi nancial year ended 31 December 2012 is set out in Table 1 below. Table 1 Board AC(1) ERCC(2) NC(3) SC(4) Meeting Meeting Meeting Meeting Meeting Attendance Attendance Attendance Attendance Attendance Name of Director (in %) (in %) (in %) (in %) (in %) Tan Guong Ching 100 – – – 100 Neil Montefiore 100 – – – – Kua Hong Pak 100 100 – – – Peter Seah Lim Huat 100 – 100 100 – Nihal Vijaya Devadas Kaviratne CBE 100 100 – – 100 Lee Theng Kiat(5)(6) 100 – 50 100 – Steven Terrell Clontz 100 – – – 100 Lim Ming Seong 100 100 100 – 100 Sadao Maki(7) 100 – – – – Teo Ek Tor 100 100 – 100 – Liu Chee Ming 100 – – – 100 Robert J. Sachs 100 – – – 80 Nasser Marafih 83 – – – – Sio Tat Hiang(8) 75 – 100 100 – Takeshi Kazami(7) 100 – – – – (1) The AC held four meetings during the financial year ended 31 December 2012. (2) The ERCC held four meetings during the financial year ended 31 December 2012. (3) The NC held two meetings during the financial year ended 31 December 2012. (4) The SC held fi ve meetings during the financial year ended 31 December 2012. (5) Includes meetings attended by Alternate Director on Director’s behalf. (6) Mr Lee Theng Kiat resigned as non-executive Director and member of the ERCC and NC with effect from 20 June 2012. (7) Mr Sadao Maki resigned as non-executive Director with effect from 12 April 2012, and was replaced by Mr Takeshi Kazami who was appointed as non-executive Director with effect from 13 April 2012. (8) Mr Sio Tat Hiang was appointed as non-executive Director and member of the ERCC and NC with effect from 2 July 2012. All newly-appointed Directors are briefed by Management on the Group’s business, strategies, fi nancials, operations, governance practices, culture and values, and the key developments in both the Company and industry, as part of their formal induction on joining the Board. New Directors are also given manuals containing, inter alia, information on their duties as directors and how to discharge those duties, and the Company’s insider trading policy. The objective is to ensure that the Directors have a working knowledge of the Group’s business and operations and allow them to settle into their new roles smoothly. Directors have open access to all relevant information, including discussions with Management and subject matter experts, and visits to operations. Directors may meet independently with Management at any time to discuss areas of interest or concern. The Directors have participated in training programmes from time to time, to equip themselves with the relevant skills and/ | CORPORATE GOVERNANCE | BOARD COMPOSITION AND GUIDANCE The Board has a strong independent element, and is able to exercise objective judgement on corporate affairs independently, in particular from Management and 10% shareholders (as defi ned in the Code). The Chairman, Mr Tan Guong Ching, is not an independent Director within the meaning of the Code. One-third of the Board is made up of independent Directors. The independent Directors are Mr Kua Hong Pak, Mr Nihal Vijaya Devadas Kaviratne CBE, Mr Teo Ek Tor, Mr Liu Chee Ming and Dr Robert J. Sachs. Only the Group CEO, Mr Neil Montefiore, is an executive Director. As at 31 December 2012, one of the fi ve independent Directors of the Company, Mr Kua Hong Pak has served on the Board for more than nine years. The Board does not impose a limit on the length of service of the independent Directors, as a Director’s contribution in terms of skills, experience, professionalism, integrity, objectivity and independent judgement to discharge his duties in good faith in the best interest of the Company, are more critical in ascertaining the effectiveness of his independence than the number of years served on the Board. In assessing objectivity and independent judgment, the NC and the Board consider, inter alia, the approach, character and attitude of each non-executive Director, including whether such Director: l is free from any interest and any business or other relationship which could, or could reasonably be perceived to, interfere with the exercise of the Director’s independent business judgement with a view to the best interests of the Group; and l has any material contractual relationship with the Group other than as a Director. After due and careful rigorous review, the Board is of the view that Mr Kua Hong Pak remains independent in his exercise of judgment and objectivity in Board matters. Each Director is required to immediately disclose to the Board if they have an interest or relationship which is likely to impact on their independence or if a Director believes he may no longer be independent, in order to address potential confl icts of interest. Such Director is required to excuse himself during any Board or Board Committee decisions where that entity’s commercial relationship with the Company is to be directly or indirectly discussed. Independent professional advice is available to the Directors if necessary, at the expense of the Company. The NC reviews the size and composition of the Board from time to time, seeking to ensure that the Board has an appropriate number of independent Directors such that no individual or small group of individuals are allowed to dominate the Board’s decision. The NC is of the view that the current size of the Board of 13 Directors and composition of the Board are conducive to facilitate effective discussion and decision making, taking into account the scope and nature of the operations of the Company, and the complexity and requirements of the business. The Board and its Board Committees comprise Directors who, as a group, provide an appropriate balance and diversity of skills, experience and knowledge of the Company. They provide core competencies such as accounting, fi nancial, business and management experience, industry knowledge, strategic planning experience, legal and regulatory expertise and customer-based experience and knowledge. Each Director also brings with him an immense network of contacts across the industry, which is invaluable to the Company. The Directors bring valuable insights and objective perspectives The profi le of each Director and other relevant information can be found in the write-up on the Board of Directors on pages 19 to 23 of this Annual Report. All principal directorships and chairmanships in any listed companies held by any of the Directors currently, and in the preceding three years, are also detailed in the Directors’ Particulars on pages 72 to 74 of this Annual Report. CHAIRMAN AND CEO There is a clear division of responsibilities between the leadership of the Board and the executives responsible for managing the Company’s business. The Board Chairman and the CEO of the Company are two separate persons, to ensure an appropriate balance of power, increased accountability and greater capacity of the Board for independent decisionmaking. No one individual holds considerable concentration of power within the Group. The Chairman, Mr Tan Guong Ching, is non-executive and unrelated to the CEO. His responsibilities include: l leading the Board to ensure its effectiveness on all aspects of its role; l setting the agenda and ensuring that adequate time is available for discussion of all agenda items, in particular strategic issues; l chairing Board meetings and shareholders’ meetings, and facilitating discussion within each meeting; l promoting a culture of openness and debate at the Board; l ensuring that the Directors receive complete, adequate and timely information; l encouraging effective communication with shareholders; l encouraging constructive relations within the Board and between the Board and Management, serving as a primary link between the Board and Management and providing continuity between Board meetings; l facilitating the effective contribution of non-executive Directors in particular; l working with the CEO in relation to the Board’s requirements for information to contribute effectively to the Board decision making process; l overseeing the effective implementation of the Board’s decisions; and l promoting high standards of corporate governance. The CEO has full executive responsibility for the day-to-day running of the Group’s business operations and the effective implementation of the Group’s strategies and policies. The Board does not have a lead independent Director. However, the NC and the Board are of the view that the appointment of a lead independent director may not be necessary, given the strong element of independence of the Board which enables the exercising of objective and independent judgment by the Directors. BOARD MEMBERSHIP The Company has a formal process for the selection, appointment and re-appointment of Directors to the Board. Appointments are based on the search, nomination and recommendation of candidates made by the NC to the Board. External consultants are engaged to assist with the selection process as necessary. The NC comprises Mr Peter Seah Lim Huat (NC Chairman), Mr Teo Ek Tor and Mr Sio Tat Hiang, all of whom are nonexecutive Directors independent of Management. Mr Lee Theng Kiat resigned as a NC member on 20 June 2012. While the NC Chairman may not be considered an independent director within the meaning of the Code given his association with a 10% shareholder of the Company in the current and immediate past fi nancial years, the Board | CORPORATE GOVERNANCE | For the selection, appointment and re-appointment process of directors, the NC takes into consideration, inter alia, composition, diversity and progressive renewal of the Board, each candidate’s competencies, commitment, contribution and performance (including attendance, preparedness, participation and candour), potential confl icts of interest, and the evolving needs of the Company. This is to ensure an appropriate balance of skills, experience, expertise and diversity is maintained. Directors must ensure that they are able to give sufficient time and attention to the affairs of the Company. As part of the appointment and re-appointment process, the NC will consider whether a director with multiple board representations is able to carry out, and has been devoting sufficient time to adequately carry out his duties as a Director of the Company, with regard to the director’s number of listed company board representations and other principal commitments (as defi ned in the Code). The Board does not prescribe a maximum limit on the number of listed company board representations a director with multiple board representations may hold, as the Board believes that the more appropriate measure is the ability of such Director to contribute effectively and demonstrate commitment to the role, including commitment of sufficient time and attention to the Company’s affairs. The NC is satisfied that all Directors have discharged their duties adequately for the fi nancial year 2012, and will continue to do so in 2013. All Directors are required to submit themselves for re-nomination and re-appointment at regular intervals and at least once every three years. In accordance with the Company’s Articles of Association, all Directors who are appointed by the Board are subject to retirement at the fi rst Annual General Meeting (AGM) of the Company subsequent to their appointment. One third of all the other Directors shall retire by rotation at each AGM provided always that all Directors shall retire from office at least once in every three years. The Directors retiring from office shall be eligible for re-election by the shareholders. The NC also assesses each Director’s independence annually. If the NC considers a Director to be independent, notwithstanding that he has one or more of the specific relationships mentioned in the Code, it shall provide its view to the Board for the Board’s consideration. Conversely, the NC has the discretion to consider that a director is not independent even if he does not fall within the circumstances set out in the Code, and shall similarly provide its views to the Board for the Board’s consideration. In line with the Code, the Board does not have any alternate Directors, subsequent to the cessation of Mr Guy William Norman, Mr Chan Chi Leung Theodoric and Mr Stephen Geoffrey Miller as alternate Directors during the fi nancial year 2012. All new appointments to the Board are subject to the approval of the Company’s regulators, the Info-communications Development Authority of Singapore and the Media Development Authority of Singapore. The Directors’ profi le and Directors’ Particulars can be found on pages 19 to 23 and pages 72 to 74 of this Annual Report. BOARD PERFORMANCE The Company believes that Board performance is ultimately reflected in the performance of the Group. The NC is responsible for reviewing the composition of the Board to ensure that there is good governance and the Board remains relevant to the changing needs of the Company and its business. The Board undertakes a formal annual assessment of its effectiveness, and that of the Board Committees. Each Director is requested to individually complete a comprehensive Board Performance Evaluation Form annually, to facilitate the NC in its assessment of the Board and the Board Committees on, inter alia: the effectiveness of the Board’s oversight of the Company. Where appropriate, Management may also be involved in the review process, and assist in implementing the measures needed. For the fi nancial year 2013, the Board will be engaging the assistance of Aon-Hewitt Consulting (Singapore) Pte Ltd as external consultants to facilitate formal Board performance review, and to further enhance the annual review. Throughout the year, the Board has maintained open lines of communication directly with Management on matters within their purview, over and above their attendance at the Board meetings. Non-executive Directors have also constructively challenged and assisted in developing strategic proposals and reviewed Management’s performance in meeting set goals and objectives. ACCESS TO INFORMATION In order to fulfi l their responsibilities, Management provides the Directors with complete, adequate and timely information prior to each Board and Board Committee meeting, and on an on-going basis so as to enable the Directors to make informed decisions to discharge their duties and responsibilities. The Board has separate and independent access to Management at all times. Frequent dialogue and interaction take place between Senior Management and the Board members, as encouraged by the CEO. Directors are entitled to request from Management and are provided additional information in a timely manner as needed to make informed decisions. Information provided by Management includes Board papers and related materials, background or explanatory information relating to matters to be brought before the Board, and copies of disclosure documents, budgets, forecasts and monthly internal fi nancial statements. In respect of budgets, any material variance between the projections and actual results is disclosed and explained at the Board meetings. The Board also receives monthly management accounts, updates on key performance indicators of the Group and regular analysts’ reports on the Company and the industry via email. The Board also has separate and independent access to the Company Secretaries. The Board is supported in governance and administration by the Company Secretaries, who attend all Board meetings and whose responsibilities include ensuring that Board procedures are followed and that applicable rules and regulations are complied with. Under the direction of the Chairman, the Company Secretaries ensure good information flows within the Board and Management, and advise the Board on all governance matters. Secretariat also facilitates orientation and assists with professional development and training as required. The appointment and the removal of the Company Secretaries are subject to the Board’s approval. In addition, the Board has a process for Directors (either individually or as a group), in furtherance of their duties, to seek independent professional advice, where necessary, at the Company’s expense. 2. REMUNERATION MATTERS PROCEDURES FOR DEVELOPING REMUNERATION POLICIES The Company adopts a formal and transparent procedure for developing policies on executive remuneration and for fi xing the remuneration packages of individual Directors. No Director is involved in deciding his own remuneration. The ERCC comprises Mr Peter Seah Lim Huat (ERCC Chairman), Mr Lim Ming Seong and Mr Sio Tat Hiang, all of whom are non-executive Directors independent of Management. Mr Lee Theng Kiat resigned as a ERCC member on 20 June 2012. While the ERCC Chairman may not be considered an independent director within the meaning of the Code given his association with | CORPORATE GOVERNANCE | (a) the performance of the Company, the Group and the individuals; (b) industry practices and compensation norms; and (c) the need to attract key management personnel to ensure continuing development of talent and renewal of strong leadership for the Company; l succession planning for the CEO and key officers such as the Chief Operating Officer (COO) and the Chief Financial Officer (CFO). Potential candidates for immediate, medium and long-term needs are identified each year; l assessing and approving performance share awards and restricted stock awards under the Company’s approved share plans; l assessing and approving candidates for key appointments; and l overseeing the development of Management and reviewing succession plans for key positions in the Group. All decisions by the ERCC are made by a majority of votes of the ERCC members present and voting. The votes, approval or recommendation of any ERCC members with a confl ict of interest in the subject matter under consideration are excluded. The CEO is not present at any ERCC discussions which relate to his own terms of service and the review of his performance. However, he is present at other ERCC discussions on the compensation and incentive policies, such as share awards, bonus framework, salary and other incentive schemes, of the Company’s key staff (including the key management personnel). The ERCC may seek expert professional advice inside and/or outside the Company on remuneration of all Directors. The ERCC is satisfied that the current relationship between the Company and its appointed remuneration consultant, Carrots Consulting Pte Ltd (Carrots) will not affect the independence and objectivity of Carrots. The ERCC reviews the Company’s obligations arising in the event of termination of the executive Director and/or any key management personnel’s contracts of service, to ensure that such contracts of service contain fair and reasonable termination clauses. The ERCC aims to be fair and avoid rewarding poor performance. Prior to any such termination, the ERCC’s approval is required. LEVEL AND MIX OF REMUNERATION DISCLOSURE ON REMUNERATION The level and structure of remuneration of the Board and key management personnel are aligned with the long-term interest and risk policies of the Company, and are appropriate for attracting, retaining and motivating: l the Directors to provide good stewardship of the Company; and l key management personnel to successfully manage the Company without being excessive, and thereby maximise shareholder value. In performing the duties as required under its Terms of Reference, the ERCC ensures that remuneration paid to the CEO and key management personnel is strongly linked to the achievement of business and individual performance targets. The performance targets as determined by the ERCC are set at realistic yet stretched levels each year to motivate a high degree of business performance with emphasis on both short and long term quantifi able objectives. For the fi nancial year ended 31 December 2012, the ERCC engaged Carrots to conduct a Pay-for-Performance Alignment Study. The fi ndings of the Study, as presented to the ERCC, showed an adequate linkage of the executive remuneration with the performance of the Company. Cash Component Each non-executive Director receives a basic fee, attendance fee and travel allowance (for overseas Directors). In addition, non-executive Directors who perform additional services in Board Committees receive an additional fee for such services. The Board Chairman and the Chairman of each Board Committee also receive a higher fee compared with the members of the Board and the respective Board Committees, in view of the greater responsibility carried by that office. Share Component Restricted share awards are awarded in lieu of non-executive Directors’ compensation in cash, and the restricted share awards consist of the grant of fully paid shares, without any performance or vesting conditions attached. The number of shares to be awarded to a participating non-executive Director will be determined by reference to the volume weighted average price of a share on the SGX-ST over the 14 trading days commencing on the ex-dividend date that immediately follows the forthcoming AGM. The non-executive Directors’ remuneration for the fi nancial year ended 31 December 2012 will be subject to shareholders’ approval at the forthcoming AGM. Table 2 ANNUAL FEES FOR THE BOARD Board Chairman: $137,000 Non-Executive Director: $65,000 ADDITIONAL ANNUAL FEES FOR THE BOARD COMMITTEES Type of Committee Chairman Member Audit Committee $42,000 $25,000 Executive Resources and Compensation Committee $28,000 $16,000 Nominating Committee $24,000 $15,000 Strategy Committee $28,000 $16,000 BREAKDOWN OF NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION The following shows the composition of non-executive Directors’ remuneration for the fi nancial year ended 31 December 2012: Directors’ Remuneration Name of Non-Executive Directors Cash-based Share-based (1) Total Tan Guong Ching $133,000 $57,000 $190,000 Kua Hong Pak $99,400 -(2) $99,400 Peter Seah Lim Huat $109,200 $46,800 $156,000 Nihal Vijaya Devadas Kaviratne CBE $135,100 $57,900 $193,000 Lee Theng Kiat(3)(4) $40,684 $17,436 $58,120 Steven Terrell Clontz(3) $115,150 $49,350 $164,500 Lim Ming Seong $121,450 $52,050 $173,500 Sadao Maki(3)(5) $19,390 -(5) $19,390 Teo Ek Tor $100,800 $43,200 $144,000 Liu Chee Ming | CORPORATE GOVERNANCE | (2) Mr Kua Hong Pak had declined the share award and will only receive the cash component of his remuneration. Mr Kua holds no shares in the Company. (3) Fees are payable to Director’s employer company. (4) Mr Lee Theng Kiat had resigned as non-executive Director on 20 June 2012. (5) Mr Sadao Maki had resigned as non-executive Director on 12 April 2012. He had also declined the share award and will only receive the cash component of his remuneration. Mr Maki holds no shares in the Company. (6) Mr Sio Tat Hiang was appointed as non-executive Director on 2 July 2012. (7) Mr Takeshi Kazami was appointed as non-executive Director on 13 April 2012. He had also declined the share award and will only receive the cash component of his remuneration. Mr Kazami holds no shares in the Company. During the year, none of the Directors’ or the CEO’s immediate family members were employees of the Group whose remuneration exceeded $50,000 per annum. Details of the share awards granted by the Company to the non-executive Directors under the StarHub Restricted Stock Plan can be found in the Directors’ Report. CEO/Executive Director and Key Management Personnel Remuneration The Company advocates a performance-based remuneration system that is flexible and responsive to the market and the performance of the Company, business units and individual employees. In designing the remuneration structure for the CEO and key management personnel, the ERCC seeks to ensure that the level and mix of remuneration is competitive and relevant. The Company adopts the StarHub Performance Share Plan as long-term incentives to motivate key management personnel to strive for superior performance and to align their interests with those of shareholders. The StarHub Performance Share Plan also aims to strengthen the Company’s competitiveness in attracting and retaining talented key management personnel and employees. The CEO is an executive Director and is remunerated as a member of the senior Management of the Company. He does not receive Directors’ fees for his Board directorship with the Company. His compensation consists of a base salary, allowances, performance-related bonuses/payments, benefits-in-kind and share awards. The vesting of the conditional share awards granted to the CEO under the StarHub Performance Share Plan is subject to the CEO achieving prescribed performance targets over the relevant performance period. These performance targets benchmark: (a) the performance of the Company’s Total Shareholders’ Return (TSR) measured against the MSCI Asia Pacific Telecommunications Index (including Japan) over the performance period; and (b) the Wealth Added, which measures investment performance in terms of the Company’s TSR against shareholders expected returns using the cost of equity. If the threshold performance targets are not achieved, no shares will be granted to the CEO. On the other hand, if the prescribed performance targets are met or exceeded, up to twice the number of shares that are the subject of the award will be granted. The vesting of the conditional share awards granted to the CEO under the StarHub Restricted Stock Plan is subject to the CEO achieving prescribed performance targets over the relevant performance period. These performance targets are set against the Company’s: (a) Return on Invested Capital; and (b) Free Cashflow. If the threshold performance targets are not achieved, no shares will be granted to the CEO. On the other hand, if the prescribed performance targets are met or exceeded, up to 1.5 times the number of shares that are the subject of the award will be granted. Similarly, the bonuses awarded to the CEO depend on the CEO’s achievement of his prescribed performance targets. The aggregate annual compensation paid and accruing in bands of $250,000 (including any benefits-in-kind) to the CEO and each of the top five key management personnel (who are also not Directors of the Company) for the services rendered by them in any capacity to the Group for the fi nancial year ended 31 December 2012, and details of the share awards granted to the CEO and key management personnel for the fi nancial year ended 31 December 2012, are set out in Table 3 below. Table 3 Fixed (1) Variable(2) BenefitsRemuShare Awards Share Awards (%) (%) in-kind(3) neration granted in 2012 granted in 2012 (%) bands (4) under StarHub under StarHub Performance Restricted Share Plan(5) Stock Plan(6) CEO and Executive Director Neil Montefiore 45 35 20 D Refer to details in Refer to details in Directors’ Report Directors’ Report Senior Executives Tan Tong Hai 53 41 6 C Up to 244,000 shares Up to 106,500 shares Kwek Buck Chye 50 46 4 B Up to 244,000 shares Up to 106,500 shares Chan Kin Hung 71 22 7 A Up to 104,000 shares Up to 48,000 shares Diana Lee 66 27 7 A Up to 104,000 shares Up to 48,000 shares Mock Pak Lum 66 27 7 A Up to 104,000 shares Up to 48,000 shares (1) Fixed refers to base salary, Annual Wage Supplement and fi xed allowances earned for the year ended 31 December 2012. (2) Variable refers to incentives paid and accrued for the year pursuant to the Company’s performance bonus scheme and Economic Value Added (EVA) scheme for the year ended 31 December 2012. The Company’s performance bonus scheme is the “balanced scorecard” scheme used to determine the annual performance bonuses payable to the Company’s employees. The EVA scheme rewards for sustainable shareholder value creation over the medium term, with alignment to the Company’s strategic business objectives. Under this scheme, each of the Company’s employees is given clear objectives on his personal scorecard, which are aligned to the Company’s overall strategic objectives of growth and profi tability, creating customer value, operational effi ciency, excellence and optimal customer management, and developing a motivated and well-trained workforce. Under the EVA scheme, a notional EVA bank account is set up for each senior executive, into which the annual EVA performance bonus earned by him each year is credited. One third of the total amount in his EVA bank account is payable annually at a later date in the following financial year, and the remaining balance in his EVA bank account is payable to him upon his resignation or termination of employment (other than for cause), subject to certain conditions being met. The balance in the EVA bank account will increase or decrease depending on the Company’s EVA performance in subsequent years. (3) Benefi ts-in-kind are stated on the basis of direct costs to the Company, and include tax equalisation, housing and other non-cash benefi ts such as leave, medical scheme and club membership. (4) Remuneration bands: “A” refers to remuneration between $500,001 and $750,000 p.a. “B” refers to remuneration between $1,050,001 and $1,300,000 p.a. “C” refers to remuneration between $1,300,001 and $1,550,000 p.a. “D” refers to remuneration between $2,000,001 and $2,250,000 p.a. For the financial year ended 31 December 2012, the aggregate amount of remuneration paid to the top fi ve key management personnel (who are not Directors or the CEO) was $4,184,029. (5) A share award was granted under the StarHub Performance Share Plan on 25 May 2012. The share valuation adopted a Monte-Carlo simulation methodology applied at the point of grant. The share award is conditional upon the participant achieving prescribed performance targets over the performance period from 1 January 2012 to 31 December 2014. The performance targets benchmark (a) the performance of the Company’s Total Shareholders’ Return (TSR) measured against the MSCI Asia-Pacifi c Telecommunications Index (including Japan) over the performance period, and (b) the Wealth Added which measures investment performance in terms of the Company’s TSR against shareholders’ expected returns using cost of equity. The actual number of shares delivered will depend on the level of attainment of the performance targets. (6) A share award was granted under the StarHub Restricted Stock Plan on 25 May 2012. The share valuation adopted a Monte-Carlo simulation methodology applied at the point of grant. The share award is conditional upon the participant achieving prescribed performance targets over the performance period from 1 January 2012 to 31 December 2013. These performance targets are set against the Company’s: (a) Return on Invested Capital; and (b) Free Cashfl ow. The actual number of shares delivered will depend on the level of attainment of the performance targets. Shares will be delivered in phases according to the stipulated vesting periods. In the event that the executive Director or key management personnel of the Company engages in fraud or misconduct, which results in re-instatement of the Company’s fi nancial results or a misconduct/fraud resulting in fi nancial loss to the Company, the Board may pursue to reclaim the unvested components of remuneration from the executive Director or key management personnel from all incentive plans for the relevant period, to the extent such incentive has been earned but not yet released or disbursed. The Board, taking into account the ERCC’s recommendation, can decide whether and to what extent, such recoupment of the incentive is appropriate, based on the specific facts and circumstances of the case. 3. ACCOUNTABILITY AND AUDIT ACCOUNTABILITY | CORPORATE GOVERNANCE | The Board is able to make informed decisions based on up-to-date and detailed information provided by Management. Monthly management and fi nancial reports which explain the Company’s performance (in comparison with its forecasted performance and budget) and fi nancial position are provided to the Board members on a timely basis. Other related business reports are also provided to the Board regularly and upon request by the Board from time to time. Written policies are established where appropriate to ensure compliance by the Board with applicable legislative and regulatory requirements. With respect to dealings in the securities of the Company by the Directors and employees of the Group, the Company has adopted the following insider trading policy that exceeds the requirements of the SGX-ST Listing Manual: l All Directors and employees of the Group are prohibited from dealing in the Company’s securities: (a) two weeks prior to the announcement of the Group’s results for each of the fi rst three quarters of its fi nancial year; and (b) a month prior to the announcement of the Group’s full year results; and l All Directors, Management and employees directly involved in the preparation of the Group’s quarterly and full year results are prohibited from dealing in the Company’s securities one month prior to the announcement of each of the Group’s quarterly and full year results. All Directors, Management and employees are notified by email prior to the start of each trading blackout period and the restrictions are only lifted after the announcement of the respective results. The Company, all Directors and employees of the Group are also strictly required to observe insider trading laws at all times. The Company has also adopted a policy against acquiring any of its shares pursuant to its Share Purchase Mandate where a price-sensitive development has occurred or been the subject of a decision, until the development has been publicly announced. Further, the Board has voluntarily undertaken to reduce the amount of shares it may issue and allot pursuant to the general authority granted by the Company’s shareholders to the Board, from 20% to 15% of the Company’s total issued share capital. The Board and Management believe that the Company has complied with and exceeded the Code and SGX-ST Listing Manual, as well as industry best practices. RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL CONTROLS The Board as a whole is responsible for the governance of risk, and: l ensures that Management maintains a sound system of risk management and internal controls to safeguard shareholders’ interests and the Company’s assets; l determines the nature and extent of the significant risks, and the level of risk tolerance and risk policies, which the Board is willing to take in achieving its strategic objectives; l provides oversight in the design, implementation and monitoring of the risk management framework, and system of internal controls (including fi nancial, operational, compliance and information technology controls), including ensuring that Management puts in place action plans to mitigate the risks identified where possible; l reviews the adequacy and effectiveness of the risk management and internal control systems annually; and l sets and instils the appropriate risk-aware culture throughout the Company for effective risk governance. The Company faces a variety of risks due to the complexity of its business and the dynamic business environment in which and mitigating measures were reviewed by the Board and Management on a regular basis, as part of the strategic planning, business planning, budgeting and performance management processes. This is to ensure that the risk management framework continues to effectively promote and enable the identification, management and monitoring of risks across the Company. The Board will be establishing a new Board Risk Committee (RC) in 2013 to assist the Board in carrying out its responsibility of overseeing the Company’s risk management framework and policies. The RC will review the key risk controls and framework covering operational, compliance and information technology risks. The RC will be tasked with the review of: l policies and procedures for timely risk identification and containment; l approval limits for key fi nancial and operational matters, and guidelines for delegation of authority; l policies and procedures for safeguarding assets; l measures for ensuring compliance with applicable laws and regulations; and l procedures and processes for maintaining the integrity, confidentiality and availability of critical information and systems, including accounting records. The RC will have explicit authority to investigate any matter within its terms of reference, full access to and co-operation by Management. The RC will also have full discretion to invite any Director or executive officer to attend its meetings, and to require Management to provide it with such reasonable resources to enable it to discharge its functions properly. In terms of internal controls, the external and internal auditors conduct independent audits of the effectiveness of the Group’s key internal control systems. The AC has the responsibility to review the audit reports and assesses the effectiveness of the actions taken by Management on the recommendations made by the external and internal auditors for resolving any lapses or weaknesses in the controls, taking into account any views Management has. For the fi nancial year ended 31 December 2012, the Board has received assurance from CEO and CFO that the fi nancial records have been properly maintained and the fi nancial statements give a true and fair view of the Company’s operations and fi nances, and that the Company’s risk management and internal control systems (including fi nancial, operational, compliance and information technology controls) are adequate and effective. Based on the risk management system and internal controls established and maintained by the Group, reviews performed by Management, as supported by fi ndings by external and internal auditors, and relevant assurance by CEO and CFO pursuant to the Code, the Board, with the concurrence of the AC, opines that the risk management system and internal controls, including fi nancial, operational, compliance and information technology controls, are adequate and effective in meeting the needs of the Group in its current business environment and scope of operations. AUDIT COMMITTEE The AC comprises the following four non-executive Directors, all of whom have extensive, invaluable, recent and relevant accounting and fi nancial management expertise and experience, and the majority of whom (including the AC Chairman) are independent Directors: l Mr Kua Hong Pak (AC Chairman); l Mr Nihal Vijaya Devadas Kaviratne CBE (Independent Director); | CORPORATE GOVERNANCE | l reviewing the effectiveness of the Company’s internal audit function; l reviewing the scope and results of the external audit, and the independence and objectivity of the external auditors (with regard to the nature, extent and cost of non-audit services provided by the external auditors during the fi nancial year); l reviewing interested person transactions to ensure compliance with the SGX-ST Listing Manual and the Shareholders’ Mandate that is renewable annually; l making recommendations to the Board on the proposals to the shareholders on the appointment, re-appointment and removal of the external auditors, and approving the remuneration and terms of engagement of the external auditor; l commissioning and reviewing fi ndings of internal investigations into suspected fraud, irregularity or failure of internal controls or violation of any law that is likely to have a material impact on the Group’s results; and l reviewing the Company’s Whistle Blowing Policy and the arrangements therein by which employees of the Company and any other persons may, in confidence, raise concerns about possible improprieties in matters of fi nancial reporting or other matters, and where such concerns will be independently investigated and appropriate follow-up action(s) will be taken. The AC has explicit authority to investigate any matter within its terms of reference, with full access to and co-operation by Management. The AC also has full discretion to invite any Director or executive officer to attend its meetings, and to require Management to provide it with such reasonable resources to enable it to discharge its functions properly. In the fi nancial year ended 31 December 2012, the AC held four meetings and met the Company’s external auditors without Management at least once, in each case, to discuss matters it believed should be raised privately. The AC has undertaken a review of all non-audit services provided by the external auditors, and is satisfied with the independence and objectivity of the external auditors. The aggregate amount of external auditors’ fees for fi nancial year 2012 and the breakdown for the audit and non-audit services are set out in Note 19.3 to the Financial Statements on page 169 of the Annual Report. Having satisfied itself that the external auditors’ independence is not impaired by their provision of non-audit services to the Group and that Rules 712 and 715 of the SGX-ST Listing Manual have been complied with, the AC has recommended to the Board that KPMG LLP be nominated for re-appointment as the Group’s external auditors at the next AGM. To further safeguard KPMG LLP’s independence, the AC ensures that: (a) the KPMG LLP partner in charge of auditing the Group is changed every five years; and (b) a former KPMG LLP partner will not be appointed as a AC member of the Company within 12 months upon his cessation as KPMG LLP partner and for so long as he or she has any fi nancial interest in KPMG LLP. INTERNAL AUDIT The Company has established and maintains an effective internal audit function that is adequately resourced and independent of the activities it audits. The Group’s internal auditor, RSM Ethos Pte. Ltd., is an independent fi rm to which the internal audit function is outsourced. It carries out its function according to the Standards for the Professional Practice of Internal Auditing, prescribed by the Institute of Internal Auditors. The internal auditor reports to the AC functionally, and to the CEO and CFO of the Company administratively. The AC approves the hiring, removal, evaluation and compensation of the internal auditor. The internal auditor has unfettered access to all the Company’s documents, records, properties and personnel, including access to the AC. 4. SHAREHOLDER RIGHTS AND RESPONSIBILITIES SHAREHOLDER RIGHTS The Company treats all shareholders fairly and equitably. It also recognises, protects and facilitates the exercise of shareholders’ rights, and continually reviews and updates such governance arrangements. Shareholders have the right to be sufficiently informed of changes in the Company or its business which may materially affect the price or value of the Company’s shares. There are formal policies and procedures to ensure that the Company complies with its disclosure obligations under the SGX-ST Listing Manual. The Company ensures that shareholders have the opportunity to participate effectively in and vote at general meetings of shareholders. The Company has taken steps to ensure that its notice of AGM is issued to shareholders at least 21 days before the scheduled date of the AGM. Electronic annual reports (in the form of a CD-ROM) are sent to all shareholders (including foreign shareholders) at least 21 days before the AGM to ensure that all shareholders have adequate opportunity and sufficient time to review the annual reports before the AGM. The move to electronic documentation demonstrates the Company’s commitment towards more environmentally-friendly and sustainable efforts. Hard copies will be provided upon request by shareholders. The Company has also committed not to introduce new resolutions within one week of each general meeting, to enhance governance and transparency. The Company’s Articles of Association allow a shareholder to appoint up to two proxies to attend and vote in his place at general meetings. Shareholders who hold shares through corporations which provide nominee or custodial services (such as CPF and custodian banks), may attend AGM as observers without being constrained by the two-proxy rule, subject to availability of seats. 5. COMMUNICATION WITH SHAREHOLDERS The Company actively engages its shareholders and puts in place an effective investor relations policy to promote regular, effective and fair communication with shareholders. Together with the CEO and other key management personnel, the Company’s Investor Relations team keeps the Company’s shareholders informed of major industry and corporate developments, the Group’s performance and other relevant information on a timely basis. The Company has also taken steps to solicit and understand the views of the shareholders via: (a) periodic analyst and media briefi ngs throughout the year; as well as (b) the Management and Investor Relations team meeting with institutional investors regularly, through international road shows and conferences organised by major brokerage fi rms. The Company discloses information on a timely basis through SGXNET and other information channels, including the Company’s corporate website at www.starhub.com/ir, which is regularly maintained and updated. All media releases, fi nancial results, annual reports, SGXNET announcements, presentation materials, archived webcasts and conference calls, and other corporate information relating to the Group are accessible on the Company’s corporate website. Upon request, investors can also be notified via an e-mail alert service. Material price-sensitive information such as fi nancial results are however, released through SGXNET before any media or analyst conferences are conducted. This ensures fair and non-selective disclosure of information to all investors. The contact details of the Investor Relations team are available on the Company’s website and the team is always ready to address shareholders’ queries and concerns. The team is also prompt in keeping Management fully apprised of shareholder views and sentiments. | CORPORATE GOVERNANCE | All Directors (in particular the Chairman of the Board and the respective Chairman of the AC, NC, ERCC and SC) together with Senior Management are requested to attend and be present and available at all general meetings of shareholders to address shareholders’ queries at these meetings. The external auditors are also present to address shareholders’ queries about the conduct of audit and the preparation and content of the auditors’ report. Registered shareholders are invited to attend and participate actively in such general meetings, including seeking clarification and/or querying the Group’s strategic direction, business, operations, performance and proposed resolutions. Each shareholder can vote in person or by appointing up to two proxies to attend and vote on his behalf. If shareholders are unable to attend general meetings, the Company’s Articles of Association do not allow shareholders to vote in absentia, except through the appointment of a proxy or proxies to cast their vote in their stead. The Company ensures that there will be separate resolutions at general meetings on each substantially separate issue. Voting is carried out systematically and all resolutions passed are properly recorded. The Company prepares minutes of general meetings that include substantial and relevant comments or queries from shareholders relating to the agenda of the meeting, and responses from the Board and Management, and makes the minutes available to shareholders upon their request. The Company has adopted electronic poll voting for general meetings since 2011 to ensure greater transparency and efficiency in the voting process and results. The results showing the number of votes cast for and against each resolution and the respective percentages are announced via the SGXNET on the same day of the general meeting. 7. ADDITIONAL MEASURES TO ENHANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Beyond complying with the requirements of the Code, the SGX-ST Listing Manual, the Companies Act and the Securities and Futures Act, the Company has also undertaken various additional measures to enhance corporate governance. Strategic Business Continuity Management (BCM) The Company has undertaken a strategic BCM programme which has been certified as meeting the Singapore Standards SS540:2008. The BCM programme ensures that the Company has in place business continuity and disaster recovery policies, plans and procedures. This provides assurance to the Group’s stakeholders that the Company will be able to provide, maintain and recover its critical business functions and continue to provide info-communication products and services in the event of an emergency, disaster or crisis. Whistle Blowing Policy In line with the Company’s zero tolerance for fraud and other ethical violations, the Group has instituted a robust procedure for purpose of providing employees with accessible channels, including a direct channel to their immediate supervisors, the relevant Heads of Department or the Head of Human Resource (as may be appropriate), as well as the AC, for reporting suspected fraud, corruption, fi nancial impropriety, unethical conduct and other criminal or dishonest practices. The Investigation Committee (constituting representatives from the Senior Management) will investigate the suspected wrongdoing and implement rectification and prevention measures. Any personnel with a confl ict of interest (actual or potential) will be barred from appointment to the Investigation Committee. All cases of suspected wrongdoing will also be reported to and reviewed by the AC. Employee Code of Conduct and Rules on Business Conduct In 2012, the Company augmented the Employee Code of Conduct, the Ethics Policy and the Corporate Gift and Hospitality Policy to guide employees in carrying out their duties and responsibilities with high standards of personal and corporate integrity when dealing with the Company, its competitors, customers, suppliers and the community. The code and policies cover business conduct (including employees’ compliance with anti-corruption and anti-bribery laws), conduct in the workplace, protection of the Company’s assets, proprietary and confidential information and intellectual property, confl ict of interest, non-solicitation of customers and employees, and workplace health and safety. In parallel, the Company has enhanced existing processes and internal controls on tenders, vendor selection and purchasing under the Supplier and Vendor Policy to ensure transparency, objectivity and compliance. The updated Employee Code of Conduct is available on the Company’s intranet, while the Supplier and Vendor Policy, the Ethics Policy and the Corporate Gift and Hospitality Policy are available on both the Company’s intranet and corporate website for easy access. Compliance Leave Policy As a further risk mitigation measure and to enhance governance, the Company has voluntarily put in place a Compliance Leave Policy which applies to all employees with sensitive job functions such as handling monies, inventories, payroll processing and approvals, risk management and purchasing of goods and services. Under the Compliance Leave Policy, such employees are required to go on mandatory block leave of at least fi ve consecutive working days each calendar year. This arrangement allows covering officers to fully take over the duties of the employee on leave, as an additional check and balance against any breaches. Document Classification Policy The Company has implemented a clear document classification policy to ensure that all documents relating to the Group’s business, activities and operations are classified according to whether the information contained within the document is confidential, for internal use or for public distribution. This classification helps to safeguard the information, ensures that only appropriate persons have access to that information and that access is on a need-to-know basis only. Laptop Encryption Solution To further enhance security of confidential and commercially-sensitive documents stored in laptops belonging to senior staff, the Company has implemented a Laptop Encryption Solution which ensures that sensitive and confidential information relating to the Company continue to be protected, in the event of any loss of the laptop. The Company would have the ability to remotely wipe out the sensitive information in such situations. | DIRECTORS' PARTICULARS | Directors’ Particulars Principal Directorships/Chairmanships in other listed companies & other major appointments, both present and held over the preceding 3 years Age Present Principal Directorships/ Past Principal Directorships/ in Year Chairmanships & Appointments Chairmanships & Appointments Director 2013 (as at 31 Dec 2012) (from 1 Jan 2010 to 30 Dec 2012) Tan Guong Ching 67 Singapore Technologies Telemedia Pte Ltd eircom Limited Singapore Technologies Aerospace Limited Temasek Life Sciences Laboratory Limited STT Communications Ltd Asia Mobile Holding Company Pte. Ltd. Asia Mobile Holdings Pte. Ltd. Singapore Pools (Private) Limited IP Academy Pteris Global Limited Singapore Shipping Corporation Limited Cambridge-MTN Private Limited Neil Montefiore 61 StarHub Cable Vision Ltd. Wireless Intellect Labs Pte Ltd StarHub Internet Pte Ltd StarHub Mobile Pte Ltd StarHub Online Pte Ltd SHINE Systems Assets Pte. Ltd. NEILM (S) Pte Ltd Ruswarp Consultants (as Manager) Singapore Repertory Theatre Ltd Singapore National Employers Federation (as Council Member) Kua Hong Pak 69 ComfortDelGro Corporation Limited CabCharge Australia Limited SBS Transit Ltd VICOM Ltd PSA Corporation Limited PSA International Pte Ltd Temasek Holdings (Private) Limited ComfortDelGro Cabcharge Pty Ltd Metroline plc (UK) Principal Directorships/Chairmanships in other listed companies & other major appointments, both present and held over the preceding 3 years Age Present Principal Directorships/ Past Principal Directorships/ in Year Chairmanships & Appointments Chairmanships & Appointments Director 2013 (as at 31 Dec 2012) (from 1 Jan 2010 to 30 Dec 2012) Nihal Vijaya Devadas 69 DBS Group Holdings Ltd Agro Tech Foods Limited Kaviratne CBE DBS Bank Ltd Fullerton India Credit Company Limited GlaxoSmithKline Pharmaceuticals Limited Fullerton Securities and Wealth Advisors TVS Motor Company (Europe) BV Limited PT TVS Motor Company Titan Industries Ltd Wildlife Reserves Singapore Pte Ltd Akzo Nobel India Limited SATS Ltd. Steven Terrell Clontz 63 InterDigital, Inc. eircom Limited Nucleus Connect Pte. Ltd. Global Crossing Limited (as Executive Equinix, Inc. Committee Member) Jasper Wireless, Inc. Level 3 Communications, Inc Lim Ming Seong 66 CSE Global Limited First Resources Ltd Singapore Technologies Kinetics Pte Ltd Singapore Technologies Telemedia Pte Ltd WhiteRock Partners Ltd Amplus Communications Pte Ltd Teo Ek Tor 60 PrimePartners Group Pte Ltd United Pacific Industries Limited Prime Partners Corporate Finance Pte Ltd PrimePartners Renewable Energy Inc PrimePartners Asset Management Pte Ltd ServTouch Holdings Pte Ltd WhiteRock Medical Company Pte Ltd Delta Asia Capital Singapore Fund Pte Ltd Liu Chee Ming 62 Platinum Broking Company Limited Platinum Holdings Company Limited Platinum Securities Company Limited Platinum Securities Company Limited | DIRECTORS' PARTICULARS | Principal Directorships/Chairmanships in other listed companies & other major appointments, both present and held over the preceding 3 years Age Present Principal Directorships/ Past Principal Directorships/ in Year Chairmanships & Appointments Chairmanships & Appointments Director 2013 (as at 31 Dec 2012) (from 1 Jan 2010 to 30 Dec 2012) Nasser Marafih 52 Asia Mobile Holdings Pte. Ltd. Asiacell Communications LLC Wataniya Mobile Telecommunication Co. (NMTC) Tunisiana S.A. PT Indosat, Tbk Shenington Investments Pte Ltd Wataniya Telecom Algerie S.P.A. Wataniya Palestine Mobile Telecommunications Public Shareholding Company wi-tribe Limited Sio Tat Hiang 66 Singapore Technologies Telemedia Pte Ltd PT Indosat Tbk STT Communications Ltd Asia-Pacific Mobile Telecommunications Asia Mobile Holding Company Pte. Ltd. (Singapore) Pte Ltd Asia Mobile Holdings Pte. Ltd. Asia-Pacific Mobile Telecommunications i-STT Investments Pte. Ltd. Satellite (AMPT) Pte Ltd ST Telecommunications (Beijing) Co., Ltd Grid Communications Pte. Ltd. ST Teleport Pte Ltd STT Crossing Ltd TeleChoice International Limited Shenington Investments Pte Ltd U Mobile Sdn Bhd Takeshi Kazami 50 NTT Singapore Pte Ltd NTT Communications (Thailand) Co., Ltd. NTT Communications World Network (S) Pte. Ltd. NTT Australia Pty Ltd PT. NTT Indonesia | AWARDS AND INDUSTRY HONOURS | Awards and Industry Honours As a reflection of our capabilities the senior management team, customer service, IR processes and innovation in product and service delivery we won the below. CORPORATE AWARDS CUSTOMER SERVICE AWARDS l Governance and Transparency l 2013 Corporate Knights’ Global 100 l SPRING Excellent Service Index 2012 Placed 66th in Global 100’s list Awards 2012 Ranked 37th out of 674 companies of the world’s most sustainable 41 awards won; 11 Gold, 21 Silver corporations and 9 Star l Institutional Investor’s The 2012 The highest fi rst-time ranking All-Asia Executive Team Awards by a Singapore company INVESTOR RELATIONS AWARDS Best Company by Countries, l IR Magazine Awards – South East Telecommunications category l Asian Institute of Management Asia 2012 (4th place) (AIM) Asian CSR Awards 2012 Best IR Officer (Jeannie Ong) Jeannie Ong, 2nd Runner-Up Intel-AIM Corporate Responsibility (nominated by the Sell side for Award l 2nd & 3rd Asian Excellence Best IR Professional) Recognition Awards l Global Telecoms Business Power Best IR Company in Singapore l SIAS Investors’ Choice Awards 2012 100 of 2012 Best IR Professional in Singapore Runner-Up in the Services category Neil Montefiore, CEO (Jeannie Ong) for Most Transparent Company l Global Telecoms Business 40 Under l 6th Annual Best Financial MARKETING / ADVERTISING / 40 for 2012 Institution Awards 2012 & 2nd BRANDING Ng Soon Leng, AVP, International Annual Corporate Awards 2012 l Asia Communications Awards 2012 Business Development & Most Organised IR & Best Strategic ‘FooD.I.Y’: Best Content Service Voice Switch CSR l Gong 2012 Creative Circle Awards l HPB Singapore HEALTH Award 2012 l 8th Corporate Governance Asia StarHub’s “Multi-screen Silver Award Recognition Awards 2012 Entertainment”, “Stadium Five Class of 2012 – The Best of Asia Million”, “Musical Fitting Room” and “Music Moodbox” won a total of 14 awards COO Tan Tong Hai (third from right) receives the Intel-AIM Corporate Responsibility Award from Deputy Prime Minister of Thailand, Kittiratt Na-Ranong, at the Asian Forum on CSR. l PromaxBDA Asia 2012 ‘American Pie’ on StarHub’s VoD service: Silver Award for Best Movie Promo | INVESTOR RELATIONS | Investor Relations Since StarHub’s commercial launch in 2000, we have always shown our strong spirit of corporate governance and corporate transparency. This was made more apparent after we were listed on the Main Board of SGX-ST in October 2004. The Investor Relations (IR) team, led by the CEO, has a fi rm and long-standing belief in effectively and regularly communicating with all shareholders. At all times, the Company is committed to making timely, full and accurate disclosure and we believe in treating all shareholders fairly. The IR team established and maintained regular dialogues with shareholders to solicit and understand their views through analyst briefi ngs, investor roadshows and equity conferences. We provided quick responses to investors’ queries and frequent access to one-on-one sessions with the senior management Our Head of Corporate team. Besides that, the IR team also organised quarterly meetings and briefi ng sessions. These sessions were Communications & IR, made available via conference call-ins and webcasts for Jeannie Ong, was recognised numerous local/regional analysts and fund managers. Topics covered were as wide-ranging as fi nancial as the ‘Best IR Professional performance, technological developments, industry in Singapore’ at the 2nd Asian trends and content acquisition strategies. Excellence Recognition In 2012, as an active participant in regional and global Awards 2012 equity conferences, the IR team met about 320 investors +30% “THE STOCK HAS APPRECIATED SLIGHTLY OVER 30% IN 2012 TO CLOSE AT $3.79 FOR THE YEAR, OUTPERFORMING THE STI’S IN 2012 GAIN OF ABOUT 20% IN THE SAME PERIOD.” the easiest and most cost-effective way Such candid views were then shared RECOGNITIONS BY THE to reach a wide audience, providing with the Board members and senior INVESTMENT COMMUNITY investors and other interested parties management team. StarHub’s stakeholder communications with up-to-date information like our efforts have been recognised widely by operations and fi nancial performance To complement and to acquire a the investment community. To name a at their fi ngertips. clearer picture of our shareholders’ few, at the 6th Annual Best Financial profi le, we performed a share registry Institution Awards 2012 & 2nd Annual For the fi rst time, in our 2011 annual analysis after every quarter’s results. Corporate Awards 2012, we walked report, we included a sustainability The shareholders’ profi le has shown away with the ‘Most Organised IR’ and report based on indicators under that besides Singapore, the other ‘Best Strategic CSR’ awards. At the 3rd the Global Reporting Initiative top geographical regions where our Asian Excellence Recognition Awards framework. The report covered investors are based are Asia 2013, we scored the ‘Best IR Company new ground not previously seen (specifically Hong Kong and Japan), in Singapore’ for the third consecutive in our previous Corporate Social the UK and USA. time while, our Head of Corporate Responsibility section, such as our Communications & IR, Jeannie Ong, carbon and water footprints, waste Looking at our share price won the ‘Best IR Professional in management and human resource performance, the stock has Singapore’ twice consecutively. welfare. This year, we built upon appreciated slightly over 30% in that foundation to provide more 2012 to close at $3.79 for the year, Besides that, at the Institutional in-depth details. outperforming the STI’s gain of Investor’s The 2012 All-Asia Executive about 20% in the same period. Team Awards, we were recognised INVESTORS’ AND In terms of DPS, we have seen an for ‘Best Company by Countries, SHAREHOLDERS’ PERCEPTIONS increase since we fi rst started Telecommunications category’ and StarHub engaged a third-party paying quarterly dividends in 2005. ‘Best IR Professional’, Jeannie Ong, research fi rm to conduct extensive We paid 9 cents DPS then and this as nominated by the sell-side analysts. | INVESTOR RELATIONS | Why invest in StarHub Extensive retail Experienced, distribution channels, performance-oriented Proven management Focus on dedicated account management team, Management team with solid Customer Hub Trooper service industry expertise, Team technical depth Service and recognised for customer service and company tenures. excellence. Fully-integrated Well-known in the info-communications info-communications Singapore’s First and entertainment Widely industry to be Fully-Integrated service provider innovative—providing based in Singapore, Recognised value-for-money Infoproviding at least Brand products and services communications one service to and excellent customer service. Company approximately 70% of all households. The Hubbing strategy Strategic investments has been successfully in submarine cable executed since July systems like AAG Proven 2002 across multiple service platforms. Regional and ASE ensure low Strategy It has consistently Connectivity network latency, resilience and delivered increased diversity, and support revenues and total future growth needs. dividend payouts. Events/Financial Calendar | IR CALENDAR OF EVENTS | Date Activities 1Q2012 l FY2011 results announcement l Singapore Investor Roadshows l Nomura ASEAN Conference – Singapore l BoAML ASEAN Conference – Singapore l Nomura ASEAN Corporate Day – London, New York & Boston l CLSA ASEAN Corporate Access Forum – Bangkok l BNP Paribas ASEAN Telco Conference – Singapore l Credit Suisse Asian Investment Conference – Hong Kong 2Q2012 l 1Q2012 results announcement l Singapore Investor Roadshows l HSBC ASEAN Conference – Singapore l UBS Pan-Asian Telco Conference – Singapore l dbAccess Asia Conference – Singapore l Nomura Asia Equity Forum – Singapore l CIMB ASEAN Conference – Kuala Lumpur l OSK-DMG ASEAN Corporate Day – Singapore 3Q2012 l 2Q2012 results announcement l Singapore Investor Roadshows l Macquarie ASEAN Corporate Day – Singapore l CLSA Investors’ Forum – Hong Kong 4Q2012 l 3Q2012 results announcement l Singapore Investor Roadshows l Morgan Stanley APAC Summit – Singapore l HSBC Asia Investor Forum – London, New York & Boston l JP Morgan APAC TMT Conference – Hong Kong | FINANCIAL CALENDER FOR 2013/2014* | | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 | Sustainability ETHICS, CORPORATE GOVERNANCE, Report 2012 ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY AND CORPORATE CIVIC MINDEDNESS HAVE GUIDED OUR BUSINESS FROM INCEPTION. 58 ABOUT THIS REPORT and records to ensure accuracy. executives from major functions, hired to assist in the preparation of This is StarHub’s second annual Estimations have been used only in directs the preparation of the report. this report verified samples of data sustainability report prepared in accordance with the Global Reporting those instances where complete data was not available and this A materiality analysis, to identify sustainability issues that are most gathered and reported by various departments. Although we currently Content NUMBER OF GRI Initiative (GRI) G3.1 guidelines, has been indicated in the report significant to the StarHub business do not seek external assurance for INDICATORS including GRI’s Telecommunications wherever applicable. We continue as well as to its key stakeholders, the sustainability report content, 82 Stakeholder Engagement COVERED IN THIS Sector Supplement (pilot version) to strengthen our processes continues to be the main basis for obtaining an independent external SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 86 Our Sustainability Strategy and the Media Sector Supplement. and mechanisms for tracking, reporting. The Committee reviews, assurance for future reports remains & Management Approach This report covers StarHub’s gathering and monitoring social and assesses and determines the under consideration. 90 Our Marketplace sustainability performance for the environmental performance data that sustainability context, materiality, 96 Our People year ended 31 December 2012. will enable us to make improvements scope, boundary, and prioritisation AVAILABILITY and report our performance more of topics to be covered in the report. In line with our environmental policy, 104 Workplace Safety and Health Social and environmental data comprehensively in the future years. A taskforce with representatives we have printed only a limited number 106 Our Environment presented in our inaugural from all stakeholder departments of copies of this report. The paper that 112 Our Community sustainability report in 2011 helped us We have used internationally accepted was created to gather and verify the this report is printed on is certified as 118 Economic Performance establish our baseline for measuring measurement units for all data. performance data. sustainable by the Forest Stewardship 120 GRI Index future progress and setting goals Wherever applicable, we have used the Council (FSC). To encourage the use and targets for improvement. This measurement techniques advocated STAKEHOLDERS of electronic copies, a PDF version of year’s report also covers relevant by the guidelines and standards we The purpose of this report is to this report is available for download performance indicators from the GRI have used for reporting, such as by provide information on our economic, on our website www.starhub.com. Media Sector Supplement which was GRI and the GHG Protocol for example. social and environmental performance Smart device users on the Android and www.starhub.com/corporate/ csr.html launched in May 2012. Financial figures are in Singaporean to a wide range of stakeholders iOS platforms can also download the dollars unless specified otherwise. that include investors, employees, StarHub Annual Report app to access Visit us on the web to download the PDF version of this report. The report includes social, unions, customers, suppliers, and browse the StarHub Annual Reports environmental and economic GRI has verified this report and contractors, business partners, on their smart devices. StarHubCSR@StarHub.com performance data from all business accorded a GRI Check Certificate for NGOs, regulatory authorities, You are welcome to send questions, divisions and subsidiaries which are Application Level B. A summarised industry associations, academics, CONTACT comments, suggestions or feedback under the fi nancial and operational GRI Content Index has been included media and the local community. We value feedback from all relating to this report. control of StarHub. For the fi rst at the end of this report identifying the stakeholders. You are welcome to send Download a time, this report includes the social location of the Standard Disclosures in ASSURANCE questions, comments, suggestions QR code reader and environmental performance of the report. We have implemented an internal or feedback relating to this report to app on your Nucleus Connect, a wholly owned process to verify performance data StarHubCSR@StarHub.com smartphone and scan this subsidiary of StarHub. All data REPORTING PROCESS and information presented in the code for more in the report has been extracted StarHub’s Sustainability Reporting report. In addition, a sustainability information. from primary official documents Committee, which includes senior expert from the advisory fi rm that we 80 / STARHUB LTD / Annual Report 2012 Annual Report 2012 / STARHUB LTD / 81 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 | Stakeholder Engagement We remain committed to continuously exploring effective approaches to engage with our stakeholders in both informal and structured ways. Being part of the service industry and with more than three million individual and business customers, we understand the value of listening. Listening is an important component of our sustainable business approach, as is providing information to the investors and stakeholders on how and what we do to create and sustain value for all. We also understand the importance of processing the feedback that we receive, prioritising the issues and responding with timely actions and information. Our approach therefore is to promote an open, transparent and ongoing dialogue with stakeholders to address their concerns and expectations, so as to build StarHub as a trusted brand. Jeannie Ong, StarHub’s Head of Corporate Communications and Investor Relations, is also Chairperson As a leading infocomm player, our position—and the of StarHub’s Sustainability Reporting nature of services we provide—attracts a wide range of Committee. Jeannie was appointed stakeholder interest in how we run our business. From a member of the Management Committee of the Singapore Compact formally identifying our key stakeholders and their for Corporate Social Responsibility expectations last year, stakeholder mapping is now an in 2012. The Singapore Compact – ongoing task at StarHub. a national society committed to promoting corporate social responsibility in Singapore – is also StarHub’s Annual and Sustainability Reports are important the United Nations Global Compact channels to communicate our economical, social and (UNGC) local focal point. environmental performance to the stakeholders. In Here is a summary of how we presently engage our key stakeholders: Stakeholders’ Stakeholders How we engage expectations How we respond Customers Customer surveys, Seamless, high-quality By respecting consumers’ rights, provide Twitter, Facebook® pages, coverage, rich content, clear product information, offer value for advertisements, retail affordability, data security, money, ensure product performance and stores, Customer Service prompt level of service quality, reliable service, prompt handling outlets of complaints and respect for privacy Employees Intranet, emails, internal Caring, conducive By adopting sound HR policies and practices newsletter publications, environment where that promote fair treatment, safe working workshops, frequent productivity and selfconditions, reward and recognition for sporting and social development can take performance, team work, work-life balance activities like games place, ease of employees’ and career growth, e.g. through provision organised for staff, applications for leave, of nursing rooms and a well-equipped gym, small group discussions training, etc. and encouraging staff to take part in and annual Staff sporting activities such as marathons, Communication Session, bowling, Futsal, etc. encouragement to staff to interact more personally in and out of the office Suppliers Quotation, Request Compliance with terms By establishing policies and practices that For Proposal, tenders, and conditions of ensure a fair selection and procurement regular meetings, prevailing purchasing process, ethical business practices and email correspondence, policies and procedures, respect for contractual obligations teleconference while maintaining ethical standards at all times; appropriate costs; marketing support from suppliers Distributors/ Regular meetings, Timely delivery; By proactive sales planning; sales support; Retailers shop visits, email quality assurance; strong regular visits by Account Managers and correspondence dealer collaboration, providing Single Point of Contact for driving good customer distributors/partners for timely response experience; after-sales support Business partners Frequent discussions Partnerships for business By engaging them to seek mutually with telecom and content opportunities and growth beneficial business opportunities partners Investors Regular meetings, Transparency, timely By endeavouring to generate optimum discussions, emails with information on company return on investment, good governance, over 300 institutional progress and status, transparency and disclosure, as well as investors, across Asia, profitability sustainable and long-term growth of Europe and the US business | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 | Stakeholders How we engage Stakeholders’ expectations How we respond Local Community outreach Support from a caring By regularly reviewing community Communities programmes, corporate corporate citizen needs, partnering with Voluntary Welfare sponsorships Organisations and investing in community projects to help the needy and the underprivileged Media Invitations to media events, Exposure and access to By providing dedicated media contacts and regular media releases company developments offering timely and accurate information on and news, as well as company affairs of public interest breaking stories on products, entertainment and related content Government and Regular discussions Adherence to regulations, By complying with applicable laws, putting Regulators with relevant agencies prompt resolution of issues in place policies and procedures to ensure and departments compliance Trade associations Joining relevant trade Support in addressing By contributing through active membership associations issues facing the industry and participating in industry forums and dialogues, and sharing knowledge and information Trade unions Dialogue with the unions Access to employees for By maintaining open communication with promoting membership the union. We have signed a Memorandum and engagement with of Understanding (MOU) with Singapore management Industrial and Services Employees’ Union (SISEU) which allows rank and file employees to participate in recreational and social activities organised by the Union NGOs and Attending conferences, Responsible business By committing to wider sustainability Advocacy Groups meeting with interest practices, reduction of programmes that seek to harmonise our (e.g. Singapore groups and sustainability environmental impacts economic, social and environmental goals Compact, human reporting and disclosure of rights groups, information about WWF, etc.) sustainability performance MEMBERSHIP StarHub, through our employees, engages with a number of industry associations and forums through membership, participation and contributions. Some of these are listed below: Association/Organisation Position held, if any American Chamber of Commerce, Singapore Asia Digital Marketing Association (ADMA) Asia Pacific Network Information Centre (APNIC) Association of Media Owners (AMOS) Association of Small & Medium Enterprises (ASME), Singapore British Chamber of Commerce, Singapore Cable Television Laboratories (CableLabs) CASBAA Contact Centre Association of Singapore Current Analysis Games Exchange Alliances GSMA Development Fund GSMA Wireless Intelligence Subscription Institute of Advertising, Singapore Institute of Public Relations, Singapore Investor Relations Professional Association, Singapore Director: Jeannie Ong Law Society of Singapore Lawnet for Legal Research Ovum Enterprise IT Knowledge Centre Pacific Telecommunications Council (PTC) Promax Asia Routing Asset Database (RADB) Singapore Academy of Law Singapore Advanced Research & Education Network (SingAREN) Singapore Association of the Institute of Chartered Secretaries & Administrators Singapore Business Federation (SBF) Singapore Chinese Chamber of Commerce & Industry (SCCCI) Council Member: Teh Chong Mien Singapore Compact for CSR Management Committee member: Jeannie Ong Singapore Computer Society Ba/BE President of QA Chapter: Mock Pak Lum, Chew Sing Bin Singapore Corporate Counsel Association Singapore Hotel Association Singapore Human Resource Institute (SHRI) Singapore Indian Chamber of Commerce & Industry (SICCI) Singapore InfoComm Technology Federation Council Member: Kevin Lim Singapore Institute of Management (SIM) | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 | Our Sustainability Strategy & Management Approach Making continuous efforts to strike a harmonious balance between economic, social and environmental objectives is the cornerstone of our approach to sustainability. Making continuous efforts to strike a harmonious balance As a result of the study of our operational impacts, we between economic, social and environmental objectives is have adopted the most relevant economic, social and the cornerstone of our approach to sustainability. environmental performance indicators to manage, measure, and report our progress in sustainability. Ethics, corporate governance and corporate citizenship have guided our business from inception. StarHub’s Our sustainability strategy includes providing the best-insustainability strategy is formulated and driven at the class infocomm products and services to meet our customers’ top management level. StarHub’s Sustainability Reporting diverse needs in a manner that enriches lives, and improves Committee, headed by the CEO and represented by the productivity of individuals, companies and the wider senior management executives, oversees company-wide economy while minimising operational impact on the sustainability strategies and initiatives. StarHub’s CSR environment and society. Manager has the responsibility to coordinate various sustainability programmes. A cross-functional project A key aspect of our approach to sustainability is to develop team is responsible for gathering, monitoring and capabilities, processes and systems to measure, monitor, reporting performance data for sustainability reporting. establish targets and report our performance on material Chairperson StarHub Advisor & Head, Corporate Sustainability Advisory Panel CSR Communications Reporting CEO & Senior Manager & Investor Committee Management Relations Business Government Corporate Customer Human Continuity Finance & Strategic Legal Network Administration Service Resource Management Affairs We operate in a highly competitive market. Singapore, and talent.” Guided by the master plan, the Infocomm our main market, has one of the highest mobile phone Development Authority of Singapore (IDA) aims to penetration rates in the world. Retaining existing “grow Singapore into a dynamic global infocomm hub customers and acquiring new ones is therefore crucial and to leverage infocomm for Singapore’s economic and for ensuring sustained business growth. We overcome social development.” this challenge by providing uninterrupted connectivity, high levels of service, tailored products and services that As a leading infocomm company in Singapore, best serve the needs of our customers, transparency in StarHub plays a key role in realising the national product offerings, timely resolution of complaints and goals of enriching lives and enhancing economic problems and, above all, by building trusted relationships competitiveness through infocomm. Our investment with customers. in state-of-the-art telecommunications infrastructure and innovative products and services contributes to Rapid technological changes in the telecommunications improving the productivity of individuals, businesses industry present both risks and opportunities. It is crucial and the overall economy of Singapore. for us to closely monitor technological developments and make timely investments in the right technologies and StarHub’s contribution to the local economy also equipment to stay competitive. includes the creation and nurturing of high quality direct and indirect jobs. In order to ensure sustained business growth and optimum return on investments, we need to continuously EMPLOYMENT PRACTICES look for new opportunities whilst managing risks. Building a committed and motivated workforce is Implementing robust corporate governance and risk crucial to serving our customers effectively and management policies help us to protect shareholder efficiently. Our people play a key role in enhancing value by mitigating fi nancial, regulatory and customer satisfaction. Our goal therefore is to be an reputational risks. employer of choice by offering a vibrant workplace | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 | We believe team work – one of the four Core Values that WATER guides our day to day interactions in the workplace— Even though our direct water footprint is relatively is important for delivering our promises to customers, insignificant, we are mindful of the increasing global shareholders and stakeholders. scarcity of water as a resource. In the context of Singapore, every drop of water is precious as the country lacks natural Employee training and development is an ongoing activity aquifers and the land mass is limited. In spite of these at StarHub. Investing in human capital, developing challenges, Singapore has ensured a stable and sustainable employee competencies and upgrading skills by providing supply of water with an integrated water management regular training opportunities is an integral part of our approach. StarHub has started measuring and monitoring human resource management approach. water use to begin examining opportunities for reduction. Our approach to workplace safety involves assessing WASTE health and safety risks, inculcating awareness of best Our direct waste mainly includes paper and packaging, practices and taking preventive measures. Complying mostly generated at our offices. We have started with all applicable workplace safety and health implementing processes to measure and monitor all regulations is the starting point in our effort to make our types of waste within our own operations. Our waste operations safe. management approach is based on the classical “Reduce, Reuse and Recycle” philosophy. HUMAN RIGHTS Our approach to human rights is guided by the PRODUCTS AND SERVICES International Labour Organization’s (ILO) core labour Use of our services and products consumes energy at standards, the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the customer-end. Even though we do not manufacture the United Nations Global Compact Ten Principles and products, such as the mobile handsets and set-top boxes national regulations. for cable TV, and as such have minimal control over them, we acknowledge that introducing products and services Our commitment to fair employment practices includes that use less energy or provide a more energy-efficient banning discrimination, child labour and any kind of alternative can have a positive impact on the environment. forced or compulsory labour. We respect employees’ Solar-powered handsets and mobile base stations, as well rights to freedom of association and collective bargaining as video and teleconferencing solutions that minimise as protected by the national law. the need for physical travel for customers, are some of the examples of our environmentally-friendly products We are committed to identifying potential human rights and services. risks across business operations and take necessary measures to prevent violations. COMPLIANCE StarHub is committed to complying with all applicable ENVIRONMENT national environmental rules and laws to reduce While our products and services improve the efficiency regulatory risk for our business. and competitiveness of individuals, businesses and the wider economy, they do have some environmental SOCIETY impacts that need to be managed. We believe building trusted relationships with the community is important for our long term sustainability. ENERGY AND GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS The ability to connect with communities through social and Our data centres, base stations and offices consume environmental projects strengthens StarHub’s reputation d C r e a t e d u c e B u i l Re R ANT Y A N D V IB IC E S T, LT H CHO S, T RU A H E A P L AC E O F AST E , U NI T I E I T Y O R K GY, W GE M C O M C I A L EQ U W EN E R R USA SO WAT E income segments of the population, engaging in fair competition, adhering to ethics code, anti-bribery Case Study policies and advertising code, upholding high standards of corporate governance, respecting customers’ privacy Our approach to sustainability was and data, respecting intellectual property rights of all recognised when StarHub trumped 87 involved, clear communication of pricing and product other entries from 13 Asian countries to offering, ensuring cyber safety and protecting young and win the Intel-Asian Institute of Management vulnerable users of services from undesirable content. (AIM) Corporate Responsibility Award on 26 October 2012. As a leading infocomm company, we understand our The Intel-AIM Corporate Responsibility Award is the responsibility to help bridge the digital-divide in the grand prize of the AIM Asian CSR Awards, given to communities where we operate. an organisation that has taken on a fully embedded approach to CSR across all four focus areas and is For example, there is an opportunity to enrich the lives of only presented to a chosen company after a rigorous senior citizens by educating them in the use of technology. selection process. According to a study by the Singapore Department of StarHub is the first Singaporean company to win this Statistics, the number of persons aged 65 years and above prestigious award, based on its healthy workforce will escalate from 8.7% in 2008 to about 19% of our and labour policies, pro-environmental initiatives, population in 2030. consumer-engaging StarHub Sparks Fund and other efforts. Helping the “silver population” use technology will not only improve their access to emerging services such as remote healthcare management and telemedicine, but will also enable them to enjoy the common benefits of connectivity such as accessing a host of online services | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 | Our Marketplace Our marketplace policies are designed to build and nurture StarHub as a trusted and respected brand. Our strategy is to deploy state-of-the-art technology to provide cutting edge mobile, broadband and cable network services to enrich lives. Integrity, fairness, transparency and ethics are our key guiding principles. Our marketplace policies are designed to build and Our services keep people connected and drive productivity We have taken steps to boost Internet security and protect minors from undesirable online content. with disabilities. For example, Singapore’s fi rst network-based our Active Stars scheme offers mobile Internet content fi ltering 25% extra credits on pre-paid service, allows children the freedom cards for senior citizens aged to use their mobile devices to access 55 years and above. The scheme content and information while also offers discounted mobile plans, at the same time addressing designated handsets at zero cost, their parents’ concern of protecting and special discounts on selected their children from undesirable MOBILE ACCESSIBILITY TV channels. Our Active Plus and inappropriate content. Our 24/7 mobile network monitoring programme allows senior citizens system for network services is aimed to enjoy a host of benefits and StarHub SafeSurf Online, a at maintaining quality and reliability discounts at partner outlets. network-based Internet content of service consistently above 99.9%. fi ltering service for all computers We offer our telecom services connected to a home network, Our equipment’s daily maintenance to all groups, including residents blocks out undesirable websites on to ensure the system availability, and visitors, in accordance with the Internet. With SafeSurf Online, serviceability and performance is the registration criteria set by parents can enjoy peace of mind looked after by a team of qualified the government agencies. We when their children access technical staff. Our efforts to improve adhere to the policies and practices the Internet. availability and reliability of services issued by the regulators, the IDA include adopting a stringent standard and MDA, to manage human rights SafeShield, an Internet security MTTR (Mean Time to Repair) target, issues relating to the access and use service that provides enhanced implementation of a detailed system of telecommunication products protection against viruses, rectification and troubleshooting and services. malware, spam e-mail, and procedure. A hierarchical escalation cyber criminals, is now | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 | that we carry on our cable TV network is primarily as part of the programme. Areas addressed include governed by Singapore’s laws, guidelines issued by the pandemic flu, crisis communication, coordination MDA and industry codes which include the Broadcasting and management, and loss of access to key StarHub Act, TV Advertising Code, Subscription TV Programme infrastructure and operating facilities. Code, Free-To-Air Television Programme Code, Video on Demand (VOD) Programme Code, Film Classification The certification and its ongoing maintenance gives Guidelines, and Mobile Operators' Content Code. reasonable assurance to our stakeholders and customers that a methodical BCM framework has been adopted Guided by laws, codes and our own corporate responsibility by StarHub, and required components have been put in policies, we actively support TV programmes for schools place to achieve this business continuity objective. The or other educational programmes; news and information BCM Programme is overseen by the MRC (Management programmes produced in Singapore or elsewhere; arts and Risk Committee), and is supported operationally by cultural programmes; and drama and sports programmes representatives from StarHub’s critical business functions. produced in Singapore. Our programming policy promotes content in all national languages and free-to-air CLARITY OF CHARGES AND TARIFFS broadcasting for certain hours. We are committed to setting fair prices and communicating them as clearly as possible. Our mobile, In line with the Mobile Operators’ Content Code, we are TV and broadband price plans are prominently displayed committed to prohibit content that is objectionable on the at all retail outlets, and are available on our website. grounds of public interest, public morality, public security, Our marketing communication material, collaterals and national harmony, or that is illegal under Singapore laws. advertisements include price plans wherever applicable. As a standard procedure, our sales and service staff We also seek to protect vulnerable audience groups and enable our customers to make informed choices. When we launched R21 VoD services in January 2013, we did so with a customer education campaign and an effective system of parental locks. We also empower audiences through a channel locking feature, parental advisory messages and content ratings. We regularly engage regulators and other stakeholders to review and improve our content values and conformance with the codes. Our viewers can use our customer help Compliments to those lines to seek clarifications or give feedback on the quality StarHub Customer of our service including the content. We also engage audiences through our website, social media platforms Support staff who have such as Facebook, Twitter and the StarHub Community, attended to and assisted a peer to peer portal. me on my Home Hubbing EMERGENCY PREPAREDNESS Pack Express issue. StarHub maintains a strategic BCM (Business Continuity Management) Programme, certified under Singapore I appreciate all their Standards SS540: 2008 since May 2011, to enhance utmost effort and hard members go through contract terms with customers, highlight the penalties of early termination by the customers where applicable, and procure their acknowledgement before any agreements are signed. “I wish to commend your Customer Service Officer, We were the fi rst telco in Singapore to launch a tool which who was patient in his provides mobile roaming customers manner as he attended to my with pertinent roaming-related information and data usage, with requests and questions. He an added cost notification feature. was proactive in resolving Roam Manager is a free service from StarHub that allows customers to my request for change of check for roaming rates, check payment mode for my mobile data roaming usage, set data roaming usage alerts and get phone by consolidating the emergency numbers in over 230 bills for the various services international destinations. I have with StarHub, thereby In 2012, we further enhanced saving me the time and our clarity of charges and protection of consumers against trouble in having to fi ll in bill-shocks in line with the new another form.” guidelines by the IDA. For example, Marcus Khoo we launched DataRoam Cap@ $100, StarHub Customer a roaming tool that ensures customer’s data roaming usage charges do not exceed $100 per month, based on the customer’s bill cycle. We have started publishing the typical speed range for our broadband plans that consumers can expect to experience. We also We measure customer satisfaction through the introduced a Premium Rate Services Enterprise Customer Experience Scorecard that we have (PRS) barring service that allows implemented. In the 2012 survey, 95.6% of the customers blocking of the subscription of PRS participating in the survey rated our contact centre and its charges offered by StarHub interaction as having met or exceeded their expectations, or third parties. up from 91.1% in 2011. CUSTOMER SATISFACTION Customer satisfaction at our Customer Service Centres AND FEEDBACK soared with 99.1% of our customers affi rming that we met | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 | from January 2013. Steps will be taken to further enhance StarHub’s compliance, once the legislation and regulations have been fi nalised. We have appointed a Data Protection Officer, who is responsible to ensure compliance with the Being a senior citizen, Personal Data Protection Act and who heads up a Working Committee on Data Protection. A Data Clarification Policy I was at a loss despite the has been uploaded on the company Intranet. This outlines promptings/instructions policies for, amongst other things, the clarification and use of different types of data. given to me. I was very fortunate to be assisted INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS We treat Intellectual Property Rights (IPR) as strategic by your staff who so corporate assets and have implemented policies and patiently guided and procedures to secure, maintain and use IPRs in a manner consistent with Singapore’s IPR regulations and the helped me along in Copyright Act. Our policy is to grant licences for our IPRs getting what I set out to third parties only on a limited basis and when necessary. When we purchase systems or solutions from our vendors to do. She was ever so or require integration works, we generally seek to own or patient, pleasant and licence any IPRs created in the process unless the cost is prohibitive, or if we are not able to use the IPR in isolation. friendly. Her act of kindness will long be ANTI-CORRUPTION POLICY We follow a zero-tolerance policy against unethical remembered. Thank you.” conduct which is reflected in our employee code of conduct. Employees are required to adhere to the employee code Low Mei Leng StarHub customer of conduct and demonstrate the highest professional standards in carrying out their job responsibilities. Currently, business units are not formally analysed for risks related to corruption. However, our Whistle Blowing Policy encourages employees to bring any ethical and/or legal violations that they are aware of to the management’s attention. We are committed to taking timely action and dealing fi rmly with cases of corruption. FAIR COMPETITION POLICY We support ethical and fair competition policies and practices. We conduct business in compliance with all applicable laws including the anti-competition law of Singapore, the Telecom Competition Code and the Media Market Conduct Code. There has not been any incidence of legal action against StarHub for anticompetitive behaviour, SAFESHIELD, AN INTERNET SECURITY SERVICE THAT PROVIDES ENHANCED PROTECTION AGAINST VIRUSES, MALWARE, SPAM E-MAIL, AND CYBER CRIMINALS, IS NOW AVAILABLE UNDER STARHUB’S VALUE-ADDED SERVICES. programming, advertising, promotion and sponsorship In Singapore, all radio frequency (RF)-emitting phones, policies and practices are also guided by a number of including base stations and mobile phones, are required applicable laws, standards and codes. Some of these to comply with the World Health Organisation (WHO) are listed below: standards which in turn are based on the International Commission on Non-Ionising Radiation Protection SINGAPORE LAWS AND CODES (ICNIRP) guidelines, which protect against identified 1. Broadcasting Act hazards of RF exposure with large safety margins. 2. Media Market Conduct Code We work closely with the local health authorities to 3. TV Advertising Code monitor that RF signals from base stations are within 4. Sponsorship Code prescribed limits. 5. Subscription TV Programme Code 6. Video on Demand (VOD) Programme Code 7. Film Classification Guidelines 8. Copyright Act 9. Telecommunications Act (Cap. 323) Case Study 10. Telecom Competition Code 11. The Spam Control Act BTS Upgrade 12. Consumer Protection (Fair Trading Act) StarHub has deployed many base transceiver station 13. Code of Practice for Info Communication (BTS) over the years to provide mobile services Facilities in Buildings island-wide. We continue to invest in upgrading our 14. Code of Practice for Telecommunications infrastructure to stay competitive and effi cient. For Service Resiliency example, we have upgraded the 2G-only BTS to more energy-effi cient equipment that can support both 15. Code of Practice for Telecommunication the 2G as well as 4G networks, with a much smaller Outage Reporting energy footprint. 16. Premium Rate Services Code | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 | Our People Employees are our strategic resources who play a 1% 1% significant role in driving StarHub’s business. We operate Temporary Part-time in a highly competitive landscape and our success depends Employees Employees on how competent and passionate our people are to win 19% and retain customers. StarHubbers, as our employees are Contract Employees affectionately called, work tirelessly behind the scenes to ensure our customers enjoy uninterrupted entertainment on their TV sets and other devices and stay connected to their family, friends and the world. Our employees also take time out to help communities by volunteering and actively participating in a number of social and 79% Permanent environmental initiatives. Employees TOTAL Our human resource strategy is to develop organisational EMPLOYEES PROFILE capabilities through policies, practices and leadership to attract, retain and motivate the best talent. Customer satisfaction, a key growth driver for our business, depends on the quality of interaction our people have with our customers on a day-to-day basis. It is important that our people are positive, energised and excited about serving the customers. We make this happen by treating 57% Male our people fairly, rewarding performance, coaching for 43% improvement, and creating a workplace that reflects the Female vibrancy and excitement of the StarHub brand. Rapid technological change is the norm in the information and communications industry. Continuously upgrading the skills and knowledge of our employees is therefore a must GENDER DIVERSITY at StarHub. We invest in training and developing people to AT STARHUB stay competitive. Providing life-long learning opportunities is one of our retention strategies. StarHub continues to get recognition for excellence in people management. In 2012, StarHub received the Silver award at Singapore HEALTH Award 2012, presented by Health Promotion Board (HPB) for excellence in Male 61 Employees workplace health programmes for employees. During 57 the year, StarHub also received the Investment in People award by Asia Responsible Entrepreneurship Awards. Female 39 Employees 43 This year’s report includes labour performance data from our wholly owned subsidiary Nucleus Connect and, National Infocomm Industry* as such, we have adjusted and restated figures for 2010 StarHub and 2011 to reflect the inclusion. | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 | Senior Managers In StarHub, the divisions with the largest headcounts are & above 58 42 IS & Network Engineering and Customer Service. Middle Managers 63 37 WORKPLACE DIVERSITY Executives 56 44 StarHub employees come from diverse cultural, racial and ethnic backgrounds. Various age groups, minorities and Non-Executives 11 89 women are well represented in our workforce. We also Male employ persons with physical disability. Our merit-based Female hiring policy provides equal opportunity to prospective candidates irrespective of race, age, gender or religion. GENDER PROFILE BY As a result, our workforce mirrors the diverse community EMPLOYEE CATEGORY (%) we operate in, both racially and culturally. GENDER Female employees represented 43% of our workforce in 2012. Although, this is slightly lower than 44% in 2011, the number remains higher than the national 64% average of 39% for the Information and Communications Male industry. Women held 42% of the positions in the “Senior Managers & above” category while their share in the “Middle Managers” category was 37%. They 36% Female accounted for 36% of the Department/Division/Section Head positions. Women’s share in “Executive” level jobs was 44%. We continue to look for ways to maintain a healthy GENDER PROFILE OF representation of women in jobs. In 2012, women DEPARTMENT/DIVISION/ accounted for 48% of new hiring, up from 44% in 2011. SECTION HEADS AGE StarHub has a young workforce with a median age of 34 years. In 2012, 48% of our employees were in the age group of 30-40 years, similar to the previous year. Employees younger than 30 years old formed the second largest group with 26% share, a small drop from 29% in 52% 2011. The proportion of staff members in the 41-50 years Male age group increased from 17% in 2011 to 19% in 2012. Those less than 30 years old accounted for 62% of all the employees we hired in 2012 as we experienced a higher 48% Female turnover in this age group. Women were well represented across age groups. Their share in the 30-40 years age group remains at a healthy StarHub has aligned its Retirement and Re-employment 6% 26% policy with the Retirement and Re-employment Act that Above <30 yrs 50 yrs came into effect from 1 January 2012. The Act requires employers to re-hire those who have reached retirement age of 62 until the age of 65 and, where appropriate, until the age of 67, subject to the staff being medically fit and having satisfactory performance. In 2012, we rehired two employees upon retirement. At the end of 2012, we had 19% 41-50 yrs 48% 11 employees above the age of 62 years. 30-40 yrs ETHNIC DIVERSITY AGE PROFILE We are committed to creating a vibrant workplace for employees with diverse background and ethnicities. Our human resource policies support and promote ethnic and cultural diversity. All key ethnic and racial communities are represented in StarHub’s workforce. Providing equal and merit-based opportunities is a key principle of our employee management. Striving to <30 yrs 54 46 maintain a fair representation of minority groups remains an important part of our responsible business approach. 30-40 yrs 55 45 41-50 yrs 62 38 NATIONALITIES As a leading information and communications company in About 50 yrs 70 30 Singapore, StarHub creates quality jobs that largely benefit the local community. In 2012, Singapore citizens accounted Male Female for 81.4% of our workforce followed by PRs at 11.9%, very similar to 80% and 12% respectively in 2011. AGE & GENDER PROFILE (%) Foreigners comprised 6.7% of our workforce in 2012. Our foreign employees came from diverse nations such as Australia, China, India, Indonesia, Ireland, Malaysia, Myanmar, Philippines, Thailand, UK and Vietnam. FAIR COMPENSATION 38% We offer fair and competitive remuneration to all 30-50 yrs employees. Our compensation is based on merit, skills, qualification, relevant experience and performance. Our compensation and benefits policies are designed to attract, retain and motivate employees. 62% <30 yrs We continuously review our compensation and benefits policies against established market benchmarks to stay competitive. The Corporate Rewards and Recognition HIRING BY AGE GROUPS | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 | Injury Compensation Act, discounts on StarHub products Chinese 74.1 and services, leave (which includes childcare leave, 76 paternity leave, volunteerism leave and examination leave to name a few) medical claims including Malay 13.4 dental and specialist treatment, transport allowance, 9.4 leadership and development training, professional fee claims for any professional associations, free entry Indian 9.2 passes for places of interest, and tokens for occasions 5.9 such as birth or marriage. Some of these benefits are, however, not available to temporary workers whose Others 3.3 tenure is normally less than three months. 8.7 Merit based remuneration without discrimination National Ethnic Composition* remains an essential element of our compensation policy. StarHub workforce In 2012, the overall ratio of base salary of women to men was 1.00 : 1.12 narrowing the gap from 1.00 : 1.30 in 2011. ETHNIC PROFILE (%) *Population Trends 2011, Department of Statistics, Singapore PERFORMANCE MANAGEMENT An objective and fair assessment of employee performance is the cornerstone of a merit-based reward system. Our Performance Management and Appraisal system, which covers all permanent employees, acts as a platform to align the individual work objectives and 6.7% action plans to the broader goals and strategies of the 11.9% Foreigner 81.4% Division, and to those of the Organisation. Singaporean Singaporean PR Citizen The system enables supervisors to provide feedback, coach and develop employees so as to guide and equip them, in accomplishing their work objectives. More importantly, it allows employees to provide feedback to their supervisors, hence ensuring an effective two-way communication process. In addition to the annual performance appraisal, supervisors are strongly encouraged to conduct regular performance reviews WORKFORCE PROFILE with their staff. Apart from determining performance rewards, the appraisal system places emphasis on identifying employees’ development needs and career aspirations, and in developing necessary plans to meet these goals. At the beginning of each year, employees and performance management. This customised program 2012 22 23 enables the participants to learn the techniques of developing effective goals and objectives, gain insight 2011 25 24 into the alternatives available for establishing good development plans, conduct the annual performance Male Female appraisal effectively through a comprehensive understanding of the preparation and process involved – AVERAGE TRAINING HOURS including the approach to evaluating competencies, BY GENDER and acquire the skills in giving feedback, coaching, counseling and recognition. HEALTH EDUCATION We continue to promote the health and well being of employees. StarHub received the Silver award at Singapore Senior Managers & above 23 31 HEALTH Award 2012, presented by Health Promotion Middle Board (HPB) for continual excellence in workplace health Managers 14 15 efforts for employees. Executives 23 25 We have signed a Health Pledge with the Health Promotion Male Board to implement health promotion programmes in the Female workplace. As in the previous year, we organised a number of lunch-time talks during 2012 to create awareness among AVERAGE TRAINING HOURS BY employees on a range of health issues. Topics covered CATEGORY & GENDER include Insomnia, Cervical Cancer, Dental Health, and Preventing Sudden Cardiac Death in the Young and Old. TRAINING AND SKILL DEVELOPMENT Employee development continues to be an important aspect of our people management strategy. We believe investing in employee learning and development enables 2012 18 them to do their jobs more effectively, meets their 25.6 aspirations for career growth and makes StarHub an 21.6 attractive employer. 2011 17 Our Organisational Learning Unit has implemented an extensive Learning & Development Framework. The main 24 objectives of the framework are to build and maintain an 20.4 engaged and motivated workforce, build leadership quality for the future, and identify and equip employees with 2010 18 critical technical skills which are required to meet current 24 and future business challenges. 19.2 We have significantly invested in in-house training | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 | overseas training and conferences, certification courses 2012 15 and executive management programmes. 22 While line managers are responsible for identifying the 2011 15 training and developmental needs of their team members, 18 individual employees are encouraged to take responsibility for their life-long learning. To support life-long learning, 2010 17 a list of recommended programmes has been developed 18 for various job levels. Male Female Rapid technological changes are common in the information and communications industry. Whenever we adopt or EMPLOYEE TURNOVER introduce a new technology, we ensure our employees receive BY GENDER (%) the necessary training to upgrade their skills whenever possible. In 2012, our employees attended a number of New Media Development training programmes, seminars and conferences. These included Data Protection Act, IP, AXN Training, e-Publishing, Consumer Electronics conference, social media marketing, mobile payment/NFC seminar, 2012 33 Promax & BDA conference, online programme management, content assessor training, Forms IR8A/IR21 Workshop, 14 Legal Issues of Cloud Computing and Business Contract Law. 6 Employees in Content Services, the department responsible 2011 23 for acquiring, aggregating and creating compelling content 15 for our wide variety of viewers – including all on-air 3 programmes, advertisements and promotions – receive regular training and briefi ng to ensure the content conforms 2010 22 with legal and voluntary codes for responsible content. 16 In 2012, StarHub provided 65,215 hours of training for 9 employees, or an average of 22 hours of training per employee as compared with 24.6 hours in 2011. Women’s <30 yrs 30-50 yrs share in training was higher at 23 hours per employee Above 50 yrs compared with 22 hours for men. EMPLOYEE TURNOVER BY Our training expenditure in 2012 was $1.5 million AGE GROUPS (%) compared with $2.1 million in 2011. Training spend per employee for 2012 was $531 compared to $713 in 2011, which remains higher than the 2010 national average expenditure of $511 per employee, the latest national statistic available. In terms of expenditure per trainee, it was $745 in 2012 compared with $926 in 2011. workplace. At StarHub, we engage employees through HUMAN RIGHTS a good mix of company wellness events, initiatives Our approach to conducting business responsibly includes and benefits or perks that are of good quality and meet respect for human rights as protected by national laws employees’ needs. Examples include Dinner & Dance, and international conventions. In 2012, we re-affi rmed our Communication sessions, marathon runs, bowling commitment to human rights when we pledged our support tournaments, basketball tournaments, Futsal challenges, for the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) Principles. health screenings, monthly bazaars, wellness talks, Fruits The UNGC Principles include support and respect for @ pantries, and Shape-Up Fitness Challenge. Regular internationally proclaimed human rights. Our approach communication through e-newsletters and Intranet to human rights issues is described below. webpages also facilitate our employee engagement. Human rights abuses: StarHub does not condone human We measure employee satisfaction with our human rights abuses and is committed to conduct business in resource policies through Annual HR Satisfaction Surveys. a fair and just manner. In the 2012 Annual HR Satisfaction Survey, 95% of the participants said that the overall HR performance met Discrimination: StarHub policies promote merit and or exceeded requirements, up from 92% in 2011. performance-based employment and development opportunities. StarHub is also a signatory to the Tripartite Work-life balance: StarHub believes that home is where Alliance for Fair Employment Practices (TAFEP), a the heart is. We have taken steps over the years to improve national initiative in Singapore to promote the adoption work-life balance for employees. Examples of our workof fair employment practices. Our policy prohibits any life balance initiatives include an early release from work kind of discrimination in employment or transactions. on the last Friday of every quarter, so that staff can spend We believe treating employees fairly enhances our ability more time with their loved ones, friends or just to recharge to attract and retain talent. There were no incidents of and rejuvenate themselves. We have also allowed staff discrimination reported during 2012. early release before certain festivals such as Chinese New Year, Deepavali, Hari Raya Puasa and Christmas. Child labour: StarHub policy bans the use of child labour. In fact, we run a number of social programmes – Employee turnover: Attracting, nurturing and retaining as described in the ‘Our Community’ chapter of this report – talent are at the core of our human resource strategy. that help children and youth to continue their studies and Fair and objective hiring practices, learning and skill pursue their dreams. The Employment Act of Singapore development and career growth opportunities, a merit prohibits employment of children below 13 years of age and performance-based reward and recognition system, and imposes restrictions on the employment of young work-life balance initiatives and workplace harmony persons below the age of 16. Due to strict enforcement, all contribute to keeping attrition rates relatively low at child labour risk in Singapore remains very low. We StarHub, compared with national and industry benchmarks. currently do not evaluate suppliers for identifying potential risks of child labour in their operations. However, we acknowledge that Singapore’s resilient economy and a tightening labour market have resulted in Freedom of Association: StarHub respects employees’ keen competition for the limited talent pool. Our approach rights to freedom of association and to lawfully join unions. is to continue to review and adjust our retention policies to StarHub employees are free to subscribe to the General remain as a top employer of choice. Branch membership of Singapore Industrial & Services Employees' Union (SISEU). At present, we do not evaluate In 2012, our overall employee turnover rate was 18%, suppliers for identifying potential risks of violation of | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 | Workplace Safety & Health Our approach to workplace safety and health is based on assessing our work activities and processes to identify potential safety and health hazards and taking preventive measures to minimise the risk. In order to support continuous 92.0% communication and learning, 0.7% Sites on Existing we have created a StarHub Stand-alone Structures Workplace Safety and Health Mobile Sites 7.3% portal on the company Shared Sites Intranet for employees. (Mobile-CAS) TYPES OF SITES 2012 followed by charting out a detailed risk management In Singapore, new terms and conditions imposed by implementation plan based on a comprehensive the Urban Redevelopment Authority and the IDA risk assessment for every work activity and process require mobile telecommunications operators to share carried out at the workplace. Our risk management newly proposed designation of monopoles or masts implementation was then independently audited by as infrastructure. a Ministry of Manpower – approved bizSAFE auditor. Mobile operators are also required to reduce the visual In order to support continuous communication impact of masts by having them painted to blend with the and learning, we have created a StarHub Workplace surroundings and by other creative measures such as Safety and Health portal on the company Intranet by using artificial trees to cover roof-top installations. for employees. StarHub is in compliance with the relevant regulations. While all work activities are insured by our workplace safety and health policy, special attention is paid to enhance the safety of our field staff and contractors involved in the installation, operation and maintenance of masts, base stations, laying cables and other outside work. Our Workplace Safety and Health system includes a Code of Practice on WSH Risk Management, Risk Assessment, safety procedures for installation of radio equipment and a disaster recovery plan. We require our contractors to comply with the provisions of the Workplace Safety & Health Act (WSH Act) while | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 | Our Environment We believe we can help our customers to reduce their environmental impact by promoting the use of technology. StarHub’s environmental approach is deeply rooted in This year’s report includes environmental performance the company’s Corporate Green Policy and the Six-Point data from our wholly owned subsidiary Nucleus Connect Commitment adopted in 2009. We have committed and, as such, we have adjusted and restated figures for ourselves to adopting responsible and sustainable 2010 and 2011 to reflect the inclusion. We are committed business practices that minimise the environmental to refi ning our data collection methods for more effective impact. These include complying with applicable monitoring. Currently, energy data for nearly 8.3% regulations; establishing goals and reduction targets for of our base stations is not available where landlords energy, emissions, waste, and use of resources; recycling; include electricity expenses in the rental and do not adopting and promoting eco-friendly technology; provide usage figures. creating awareness among our employees; and involving our customers and the community in addressing the ENERGY environmental issues. In 2012, our operations consumed 116.74 million kWh of electricity, 2.4% more than in the preceding year. Our Base As an information and communications company, our Transceiver Stations (BTS) and Central Offices accounted direct environmental impacts are mainly from the use for 68% of the total consumption. In terms of energy, the of electricity followed by fuel consumption for vehicles combined consumption from direct and indirect sources and power generators, water and waste. Our strategy in 2012 was 431,177 Gigajoules. is to progressively reduce these impacts. We do this by measuring, monitoring, and fi nding ways to reduce Absolute electricity consumption inched up slightly in 2012 the impact for each of these indicators. We measure in spite of initiatives to reduce energy consumption as we our progress against the respective base year that we simultaneously added and expanded infrastructure and established last year while preparing our inaugural operations to better serve our customers. For example, we sustainability report. rolled out the Long Term Evolution (LTE) or 4G services in 2012 which will enable customers to enjoy improved peak We believe we can help our customers to reduce their downlink speed high-speed mobile broadband network. STARHUB BELIEVES IN SUSTAINING BOTH THE SOCIAL AND PHYSICAL ENVIRONMENTS IN WHICH WE OPERATE. StarHub Corporate Green Policy & 6-point Commitment StarHub will adopt responsible and sustainable practices in our 1. 4. We will minimise environmental corporate activities to minimise loads and adopt environmentally the environmental impact of our friendly technologies as far as operations. We will continually possible, when ordering and review our goals and commitment purchasing necessary resources. to protect the global environment as much as possible. We will implement educational We will adhere as much as possible 2. 5. programmes to raise environmental to environmental recommendations awareness among our employees made by the relevant authorities and and to ensure that they recognise also implement in-house targets the essence of this Green to improve our environmental Policy by actively addressing performance. environmental concerns. | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 | account for the bulk of our total energy consumption. We are 2012 116,744,584 doing this by converting all BTS sites to more energy efficient 2011 114,011,536 equipment and by upgrading the 2G-only BTS to energyefficient equipment that can support both the 2G 2010 113,087,043 as well as 4G networks. ELECTRICITY USE (kWh) In 2012, we commenced upgrading our 2G BTS to include the new 4G-enabled eNode B at the central business area and Changi airport terminals. More 2G BTS in other parts of Singapore will be similarly upgraded in 2013. The upgrading is estimated to result in a 24% reduction of electricity consumption by the upgraded 2G component. 2012 431,177 The upgrade of 3G BTS would result in higher energy consumption. However, it is estimated that once 2011 423,210 all upgrading is completed, the overall hourly energy consumption would be about 4.9% lower. 2010 420,731 When the 2G and 3G BTS modernisations are completed, TOTAL ENERGY we estimate an average annual saving of about 1,445 kWh CONSUMPTION (GJ) of electricity per BTS. Energy reduction and BTS upgrade targets were included in the 2012 Corporate Key Performance Indicators and 5% of the staff members’ bonus was tied to it (see Case Study). 2012 131,402 Use of renewable energy continues to offset our environmental footprint. We saved electricity in 2012 45,329 from the two solar-powered BTS situated at StarHub 125,660 Green and on the roof of IKEA at Alexandra Road which were established in September 2010. Our solar-powered 2011 158,521 BTS-enabled Greenergy vehicle, which is deployed to 85,807 boost signal strength where needed, has been saving fossil fuel. 110,628 2010 191,341 FUEL We used less fuel in 2012 even as we expanded our 105,995 operations. Our fuel consumption mainly includes diesel 84,333 for our commercial fleet and back-up power generator sets, and petrol for company-owned vehicles. In 2012, the diesel Petrol (mobile combustion) Diesel (stationary combustion) consumption was 170,989 litres, lower than 196,435 litres Diesel (mobile combustion) in 2011. Petrol consumption amounted to 131,402 litres, also lower than 158,521 litres in the previous year. FUEL CONSUMPTION DETAILED EMISSIONS SUMMARY (IN METRIC TONNES) CO2 tons Emissions sources 2012 2011 2010 Scope 1 Stationary combustion 121 229 283 Mobile combustion 641 664 469 Fugitive emissions (refrigerant gases) 0 2,131 1,885 Total Scope 1 emissions 762 3,024 2,637 Scope 2 Purchased electricity 60,077 58,670 58,285 Total Scope 2 emissions 60,077 58,670 58,285 Total CO2 emissions 60,839 61,695 60,922 of petrol. Our carbon intensity or metric tonne emission per 1.05% million dollar revenue was 25.12 in 2012, an improvement Mobile from 26.68 in 2011 and 27.22 in 2010. Combustion 0.20% Stationary 0.00% OZONE DEPLETING FUGITIVE EMISSIONS Combustion Fugitive In 2012, we did not use refrigerants containing any emissions of the six reportable greenhouse gases under the (refrigerant gases) GHG Protocol. In some of the air-condition equipment we used R22 refrigerant, an ozone-depleting hydrochlorofluorocarbon (HCFC) which is not part of the Kyoto Protocol and is not required to be reported. However, in the spirit of transparency, we would like to report that the emission from the use of R22 in 98.75% 2012 was 1,702 tonnes CO2e. Purchased electricity Following the Montreal Protocol on Substances that SOURCES OF GHG Deplete the Ozone Layer, the use of R-22 is being phasedEMISSIONS IN 2012 out according to an internationally agreed schedule. Beginning 2013, Singapore will freeze and commence gradual phasing out the use of R22. Our plan is to switch to lower impact alternatives such as R407A or R410A. Our carbon emission reduction strategy remains focused 2012 25,163 on reducing electricity consumption and using renewable energy such as solar power wherever feasible. 2011 25,402 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 | 31% Domestic 69% Case Study Use Drinking Introducing Consumer-Centric E-Waste Recycling Being a responsible provider of electronic services and equipment, StarHub recognised a need for electronic items to be disposed of safely. As part of our Earth Hour effort in 2012, we introduced e-waste recycling bins at five customer service centres in partnership with local e-waste recycler TES-AMM, for which we won a WWF Award for “Best Step WATER USE Beyond The Hour”. There is no profit involved in this IN 2012 purely community and environment-centric project. In August, we expanded the number of locations for our recycling bins. We now have 39 bins at 21 locations island wide: in schools, commercial malls, condominiums, Community Clubs and even at the Environment Building. In 2012, we collected and 2012 123 recycled over 2.7 tonnes of electronic waste. 2011 126 2010 122 system to include all locations. This year’s water footprint covers our Headquarters at StarHub Green, WASTE GENERATED (TONNES) Nobel Call Centre, Haw Par Techno Centre, and Nucleus Connect locations at 13 Tai Seng Drive, Yishun Industrial Park A and 3 Tai Seng Drive. WASTE Currently, paper and polystyrene foam from utensils and packaging are the main types of the waste generated at our offices. In 2012, we generated 123 tonnes of waste as against 126 tonnes in 2011. All reported waste is deemed non-hazardous. We also helped our customersto recycle 2.7 tonnes of electronic waste in 2012 (see Case Study). Currently, our waste figures include only these locations: StarHub Green HQ, all retail and CSC outlets, Nobel Call Centre, Haw Par Techno Centre and Nucleus Connect. We send all our waste for recycling through licensed contractors. Case Study My StarHub eBill StarHub aims to implement environmentally friendly processes and if we can involve our customers in our efforts, that is even better. To help reduce paper consumption, My StarHub eBill was offi cially launched on 1 May 2012. My StarHub eBill provides customers with paperless billing that includes SMS or email alerts when their bill is ready. Customers enjoy the freedom of accessing their bills online, as well as the convenience of making online payment anytime. This service is available to all StarHub customers StarHub introduced Singapore’s first e-waste recycling programme for who have at least one active personal StarHub the public, with bins in locations like schools and Community Clubs. Mobile, StarHub TV, MaxOnline or Digital Voice service. They simply have to log on to My Account Manager to do their part to help save the trees. As of end-December 2012, about 41,000 StarHub customers were using the My StarHub eBill facility. Our Corporate Key Performance Indicators include Green Corporate KPIs reducing and reusing paper with specific reduction targets. StarHub believes that every employee should play Our initiative to reduce the number of Business Reply a part in helping to save the environment. That is Envelopes (BREs) with bills sent to customers saved 3 why 5% of every staff’s bonus, from the CEO down, is directly linked to a set of environment-related Key million BREs in 2012 or 14.74 tonnes of paper as against Performance Indicators. 488,000 BREs (2.4 tonnes of paper) in 2011, when the BRE removal was initiated. This initiative saved us an estimated In 2012, these indicators included targets for Paper $55,000 in costs in 2012. In 2012, we also introduced My Recycling, Reduced Paper Consumption, and Reduced StarHub eBill, a paperless billing system to involve our Electrical Consumption at three facilities and the upgrading of certain base transceiver stations. This customers in saving paper (see Case Study). last is a variable KPI that changes to include different operational targets each year. ENVIRONMENTAL EDUCATION AND AWARENESS In 2012, we continued with programmes to create wider Our 2012 results achieved “Stretch targets” across the awareness about environmental issues and to seek active board. Some of the achievements are: 9,910kg of paper recycled up from 8,380kg in 2011; 3,998 sheets of paper involvement of employees, customers and communities. used on average per employee down from 4,216 in Examples include Green Corporate KPIs, and campaigns 2011 and 8.857m KWH of electricity consumed at three for eWaste recycling and reducing the use of Business Reply major facilities, down from 9.093m KWH in 2011. Envelopes by customers. Targeting the youth, we organised a terrarium-building-cum-donation event for Boys’ Town, a charitable institution dedicated to providing guidance, shelter, education, vocational training and practical living | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 | Bonding with Our Community Some of our community development As the leading cable TV operator and the second largest mobile phone operator in Singapore, StarHub is an The StarHub Sparks Fund, committing 1% of revenue earned from all IDD 008 and IDD 018 calls to charitable causes since the company’s inception in 2000, remains one of the prime vehicles for our corporate philanthropy. volunteers from StarHub’s SHINE division starting a six-month programme to teach elderly citizens from Southeast CDC basic computer skills on a monthly basis. The StarHub Sparks Fund, committing 1% of revenue earned from all IDD 008 and IDD 018 calls to charitable causes since the company’s inception in 2000, remains one of the prime vehicles for our corporate philanthropy. StarHub’s broad community The Sparks Fund aims to benefit the less fortunate, development goals include widening their visions and opportunities in life through encouraging equality and the social education, skills enhancement and by fulfi lling basic integration of the less fortunate, needs. StarHub has so far disbursed over $9 million from empowering youths with the In 2012, the fund to over 250 causes, charities and programmes resources and platforms they require employees to help the less fortunate. to uncover their talents and make volunteered a positive difference in the world, a total of StarHub donations and other community investments in and contributing towards Singapore’s 133 days 2012 amounted to $0.7 million. The reason for the drop quest for sporting excellence and to since 2011 was due to the disbursement of funds in 2011 to support promote a vibrant sporting culture. for activities that were carried out in 2012. a number Some of our community development of social A brief description of some of the initiatives that we programmes are designed to initiatives.” undertook in 2012 is provided on the following pages. encourage our employees and customers to actively participate SPREAD OF PROJECTS and contribute. CONTRIBUTING TO THE BOY’S TOWN | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 | to youths—visited StarHub’s headquarters in February where they discovered their green thumbs. Together with 50 StarHub volunteers, the boys made 84 terrariums, half of which were sold to StarHub employees to help raise $2,130 for their new building. In addition, a sum of $200,000 was donated from the StarHub Sparks Fund to the Boys’ Town Building Fund. Boys’ Town urgently needed an estimated $15m to repair and upgrade its 63 year-old Boys’ Town residence building. FREE PHONES FOR ACCIDENT VICTIMS When StarHub came to know that 89 workers, most of them foreign migrant workers, were injured in an oil 40 StarHubbers shaved their heads in support of Children's Cancer rig accident in December 2012 at Jurong Shipyard and Foundation’s Hair for Hope initiative. had lost their mobile phones to the sea while scrambling to escape to the shore, the company decided to donate pre-owned mobile phones and pre-paid SIM cards— valued at $38 each—to every affected worker. IN SUPPORT OF CHILDREN’S CANCER FOUNDATION A group of 40 StarHub staff members, including two female employees, went bald in support of Hair for Hope 2012. Hair for Hope is the Children’s Cancer Foundation’s call to the public to shave their heads to spread awareness of childhood cancer in Singapore; and raise funds to help children with cancer and their families. To support this cause and its employees’ bold statement, StarHub donated $40,000 from the StarHub Sparks Fund, or $1,000 for each of their 40 employees who shaved at the satellite event. In addition, about $40,000 in online donations was also raised by well-wishers. GETTING CUSTOMERS INVOLVED IN GIVING StarHub celebrated World Charity Day, which falls on 10 October every year, with an SMS Donation Drive— and encouraged consumers to get involved and do their part by messaging in a donation. $122,015 The fi ve-day campaign invited StarHub mobile customers to send a message to make a $2 donation to The Nurture Programme helps children with special needs to gain admission to children from low-income families mainstream education, meet their physical mobility improve their command of the and other therapy needs through Mobile Clinics and English language and boost selfCentre Based Activities. confidence. StarHub’s funding will enable the Nurture Programme to roll The Enhanced STEP-UP is a support programme out a structured and comprehensive for students at risk of dropping out of schools as well curriculum for the children. as out-of-school youth. BRINGING FUN TO THE STARHUB GOLDEN GURUS TO UNDERPRIVILEGED CHILDREN BRIDGE DIGITAL DIVIDE StarHub organised a special preview In December 2012, StarHub launched Golden Gurus, of local fi lm “We Not Naughty” for an IT empowerment and education programme by youth from Boys’ Town Singapore in seniors for seniors, to help the elderly bridge the January. In May we brought children digital gap with their loved ones and the community. from our Fengshan-Jade RC Tuition Sponsorship to an exclusive Debby Ryan In line with the Government’s promotion of Active Aging, Meet-&-Greet session. In September, StarHub’s Golden Gurus programme, supported by 40 children from the Fengshan-Jade Council for Third Age (C3A) and RSVP ProGuide – a social RC Tuition Sponsorship, and the top enterprise—will see tech-savvy senior citizens giving back to three fi nalists from our inaugural society by teaching information technology to other seniors. Sunsilk Academy Fantasia, were treated to a special ‘Gardens by After a nationwide hunt, fi ve digitally savvy seniors the Bay’ excursion. will be selected. They will receive exclusive training from RSVP ProGuide and StarHub to become the Golden Gurus. COMMUNITY CHEST Thereafter the Golden Gurus will be imparting their HEARTSTRINGS WALK 2012 technological knowledge as co-trainers at community StarHub returned as a Presenting workshops conducted by RSVP ProGuide. The Golden Partner at the Community Chest Gurus will also share their knowledge via social media, Heartstrings Walk 2012 and blogs and more. Vertical Marathon. The event, held in August, marked a $300,000 donation from the StarHub Sparks Fund to the Asian Women’s Welfare Case Study Association’s (AWWA) Teach Me programme, Lutheran Community Helping Prisoners Care Services’ Enhanced STEP-UP About 20 inmates at Changi Prison, under Connect programme and Yishun Students Care Centre, work as our call centre agents. This initiative, Service’s SYNC (School Social Work for begun in July 2010, aims to equip the inmates with useful skills to enable them to rehabilitate Youth and Children) Programme. and integrate back into society upon their release. Customer service and product training is provided Close to 200 StarHub employees by StarHub. came with their friends and | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 | Beneficiaries of StarHub’s Community Outreach Programmes in 2012 Feb 2012 Mar 2012 Sponsored $150,000 for the tuition of 165 under-privileged $200,000 children in Fengshan Jade for 2012 from the StarHub Sparks Fund plus $2,130 from the auction of terrariums donated to the Boys’ Town Singapore Building Fund Aug 2012 Donated as a Presenting StarHub continued to provide donations, funding and sponsorships to support a number of community initiatives in 2012 under various schemes. Some of the main beneficiaries in 2012 are depicted here. May 2012 2012 $26,000 Sponsored Team $200,000 YWB’s (Youth donation as Title Sponsor of Central Singapore Without Borders) CDC’s Nurture Programme team of adaptive paddlers, the Deaf Dragons, for the World Club Crew Championship in Hong Kong Jun 2012 $40,000 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 | Economic Performance Our approach to economic performance goes beyond SUPPORTING LOCAL SUPPLIERS striving to achieve a reasonable return on investment and One of the positive impacts that we have on the local increasing shareholder value. Our business generates economy and society is through local sourcing. We have significant indirect economic value for a variety of more than 2,100 suppliers who provide a wide range of stakeholders and the community at large. services and products needed to run our operations. Out of these, 81.81% are local suppliers. In 2012, local suppliers For example, our operating costs, including staff costs, accounted for 80.96% of our total vendor payments. Our exceeded $2 billion in 2012 contributing indirectly to support to local suppliers also creates indirect employment the national economic activity. We created more than and tax opportunities for the government, and contributes 3,600 direct jobs in 2012 with a total staff cost of to the local economic development. Our support for the $266 million, adding significant value to the local local suppliers attracts additional investment to the economy. Our operations create a large number of indirect local economy and spurs overall economic growth for jobs through suppliers and contractors that we work with, the local society. and through our retailers and business partners. We have invested $3.5 million in social projects since 2010 which INVESTING IN RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT are aimed at building a strong and inclusive community. We regularly invest in research and development Our business contributes to the state exchequer by way projects that promise new technological breakthroughs, of taxes such as the corporate income tax and the Goods reinvigorate our infrastructure, enhance productivity for and Services Tax (GST) which helps in nation building. customers and empower the community. Our shareholders have consistently received healthy dividends over the years. For example, in 2012, we partnered with the Singapore Management University (SMU) to launch the “LiveLabs Our information and telecommunications services provide Urban Lifestyle Innovation Platform” (LiveLabs) and critical infrastructure for the larger economy that boosts “SmartHub”, two complementary innovation platforms the competitiveness and productivity of businesses, in consumer and social analytics that will strengthen SUMMARY OF STARHUB’S ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE Economic performance indicators ($ million) 2012 2011 2010 Operating revenue $2,422 $2,312 $2,238 Net profit $359 $316 $263 Operating costs (including staff costs) $2,001 $1,935 $1,901 Staff costs $266 $267 $250 Dividends paid to shareholders $343 $343 $343 quality and quantity of IDM innovations, help businesses Our senior management team is largely made up of gain useful insights into consumer behaviours, as well local executives who not only bring tremendous as catalyse more collaborations between the academia, business expertise but also understand the needs of the industry and public-sector organisations in developing local community and customers. Expatriate executives IDM innovation. complement the team by bringing in international experience and ensure diversity. About half of our We also received $39,599 in subsidy for employee training 13 Board members reside outside Singapore, bringing in 2012 under various schemes run by the Singapore invaluable insights from abroad. In 2012, our senior Workforce Development Agency. management team consisted of 12 members, 10 of these being local executives (please see Our Senior ECONOMIC WELL BEING OF EMPLOYEES Management section of the Annual Report). Singapore has a well developed social security system administered by the Central Provident Fund Board. FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE The CPF Board manages the Central Provident Fund (CPF), A summarised version of our economic performance is a comprehensive social security savings plan extended presented above in accordance with the GRI guidelines. to Singapore citizens and Permanent Residents. The CPF These figures have been taken from the audited scope and benefits cover retirement, healthcare, home Financial Statements approved by the Board of Directors ownership, family protection and asset enhancement. for the respective fi nancial years. Please refer to Group Employers are required to make monthly CPF contributions Financial Review and Financial Statements sections for their employees, which includes the employer’s share of this report for more detailed information on our as well as the employee’s share, at rates fi xed by the CPF fi nancial performance. Board. StarHub makes CPF contributions as required by law for all eligible employees. WAGE LEVELS | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 | GRI Index GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE G3.1 INDEX GRI APPLICATION LEVEL B Profile Page No./ Disclosure Description Direct Response STANDARD DISCLOSURES PART I: PROFILE DISCLOSURES 1. Strategy and Analysis 1.1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organisation. 7–9 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities. 7–9, 86 –89 2. Organisational Profile 2.1 Name of the organisation. 1, 80 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services. 2–3, 24 –31, 34, 36, 40, 46 2.3 Operational structure of the organisation, including main divisions, operating companies, subsidiaries 18–23, 24–33, 34 and joint ventures. 2.4 Location of organisation’s headquarters. Singapore 2.5 Number of countries where the organisation operates and names of countries with either major StarHub operates operations or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability issues covered in the report. primarily in Singapore 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form. 76, 77 2.7 Markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served and types of customers/benefi ciaries). 5, 24–31, 34, 36, 40, 46 2.8 Scale of the reporting organisation. 2, 3, 5, 97 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding size, structure or ownership. 9 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period. 75 3. Report Parameters 3.1 Reporting period (e.g. fiscal/calendar year) for information provided. 80–81 3.2 Date of most recent previous report (if any). 2011 3.3 Reporting cycle (annual, biennial, etc.) 80 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents. 81 3.5 Process for defining report content. 80–81 3.6 Boundary of the report (e.g. countries, divisions, subsidiaries, leased facilities, joint ventures, suppliers). 80 Profile Page No./ Disclosure Description Direct Response 4. Governance, Commitments and Engagement 4.1 Governance structure of the organisation, including committees under the highest governance body 55–71 responsible for specific tasks, such as setting strategy or organisational oversight. 4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive officer. 58, 59 4.3 For organisations that have a unitary board structure, state the number and gender of members of the 58, 59, 63, 66 highest governance body that are independent and/or non-executive members. 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recommendations or direction to the highest 69–71 governance body. 4.5 Linkage between compensation for members of the highest governance body, senior managers and 62, 63, 111 executives (including departure arrangements), and the organisation’s performance (including social and environmental performance). 4.6 Processes in place for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided. 58–59 4.7 Process for determining the composition, qualifications and expertise of the members of the highest 59–60 governance body and its committees, including any consideration of gender and other indicators of diversity. 4.8 Internally developed statements of mission or values, codes of conduct and principles relevant to 70–71, 94–95, 107 economic, environmental, and social performance and the status of their implementation. 4.9 Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing the organisation’s identification and management of 66-68, 86–89, 91 economic, environmental and social performance, including relevant risks and opportunities, and adherence to or compliance with internationally agreed standards, codes of conduct and principles. 4.10 Processes for evaluating the highest governance body’s own performance, particularly with respect to 61, 111 economic, environmental and social performance. 4.11 Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed by the organisation. 69–71, 86–89 4.12 Externally developed economic, environmental and social charters, principles, or other initiatives to which 80–81, 88, 90, the organisation subscribes or endorses. 94–95, 103 4.13 Memberships in associations (such as industry associations) and/or national/international advocacy 85 organisations in which the organisation: *Has positions in governance bodies; *Participates in projects or committees; *Provides substantive funding beyond routine membership dues; or *Views membership as strategic. 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organisation. 82–84 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage. 82–84 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement by type and by 82–84 stakeholder group. 4.17 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the organisation 82–84 has responded to those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting. STANDARD DISCLOSURES PART II: DISCLOSURE ON MANAGEMENT APPROACH (DMAS) DMA EC Disclosure on Management Approach EC Aspects Economic performance 86–87, 118–119 Market presence 118–119 Indirect economic benefit 118–119 DMA EN Disclosure on Management Approach EN Energy 88, 106–107 Water 88, 109–110 Emissions, effluents and waste 108–109 Products and services 88–89 Compliance 88–89, 111 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 | Profile Page No./ Disclosure Description Direct Response Prevention of forced and compulsory labour 88, 103 DMA SO Disclosure on Management Approach SO Aspects Local communities 88–89 Corruption 88–89, 94–95 Anti-competitive behaviour 88–89, 94–95 DMA PR Disclosure on Management Approach PR Marketing communications 94–95 Customer privacy 93–94 Compliance 94–95 Content creation (MSS) 91–92 Content dissemination (MSS) 91–92 Audience interaction (MSS) 91–92 Media literacy (MSS) 91–92 STANDARD DISCLOSURES PART III: Performance Indicators Economic Economic performance EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed, including revenues, operating costs, employee 118–119 compensation, donations and other community investments, retained earnings, and payments to capital providers and governments. EC3 Coverage of the organisation's defined benefit plan obligations. 119 EC4 Significant financial assistance received from government. 118–119 EC5 Range of ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared to local minimum wage at signifi cant 119 locations of operation. EC6 Policy, practices and proportion of spending on locally-based suppliers at significant locations 118 of operation. EC7 Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior management hired from the local community at 119 significant locations of operation. EC8 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services provided primarily for public benefit 118 through commercial, in-kind, or pro bono engagement. EC9 Understanding and describing significant indirect economic impacts, including the extent of impacts. 118–119 Environmental Energy EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source. 106–109 EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source. 106–109 EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements. 110–111 EN6 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy based products and services, and reductions 106 in energy requirements as a result of these initiatives. Water EN8 Total water withdrawal by source. 109–110 Emissions, effluents and waste EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight. 108–109 EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions achieved. 95, 108, 111 EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight. 109 Profile Page No./ Disclosure Description Direct Response LA8 Education, training, counselling, prevention and risk-control programmes in place to assist workforce 101 members, their families, or community members regarding serious diseases. Training and education LA10 Average hours of training per year per employee by gender and by employee category. 101–102 LA11 Programmes for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued employability of 101–102 employees and assist them in managing career endings. LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews, by gender. 100–101 Diversity and equal opportunity LA13 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per employee category according to 98–101 gender, age group, minority group membership and other indicators of diversity. Equal remuneration for women and men LA14 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men by employee category, by significant locations of 100 operation. Social: Human Rights Non-discrimination HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and actions taken. 103 Freedom of association and collective bargaining HR5 Operations and significant suppliers identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association and 103 collective bargaining may be violated or at significant risk, and actions taken to support these rights. Child labour HR6 Operations and significant suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labour, and 103 measures taken to contribute to the effective abolition of child labour. Forced and compulsory labour HR7 Operations and significant suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory 103 labour, and measures to contribute to the elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labour. Social: Society Local communities SO1 Percentage of operations with implemented local community engagement, impact assessments, and 112–117 development programmes. Corruption SO2 Percentage and total number of business units analysed for risks related to corruption. 94–95 SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption. 94–95 Anti-competitive behaviour SO7 Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behaviour, anti-trust, and monopoly practices and 94–95 their outcomes. Social: Product Responsibility Marketing communications PR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction, including results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction. 93 PR6 Programmes for adherence to laws, standards and voluntary codes related to marketing communications, 94–95 including advertising, promotion and sponsorship. PR7 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing 94–95 communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship by type of outcomes. | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 | GRI TELECOMMUNICATION SECTOR SPECIFIC INDICATORS Health and Safety IO3 Practices to ensure health and safety of field personnel involved in the installation, operation and 104–105 maintenance of masts, base stations, laying of cables and other outside plant. IO5 Compliance with ICNIRP (International Commission on Non-Ionising Radiation Protection) guidelines 95 on exposure to radio frequency (RF) emissions from base stations IO7 Policies and practices on the siting of masts and transmission sites including stakeholder consultation, 105 site sharing and initiatives to reduce visual impacts. IO8 Number and percentage of stand-alone sites, shared sites and sites on existing structures. 105 Providing Access PA1 Policies and practices to enable the deployment of telecommunications infrastructure and access to 90–91 telecommunications products and services in remote and low population density areas PA2 Policies and practices to overcome barriers to access and use of telecommunication products and 90–91, 115 services, including language, culture, illiteracy, lack of education, income, disabilities and age. Include an explanation of business models applied. PA3 Policies and practices to ensure availability and reliability of telecommunications products and 90–91, 92–93 services and quantify, where possible, time periods and locations of down time. PA4 Quantify the level of availability of telecommunications products and services in areas where the 90–91 organisation operates. PA5 Number and types of telecommunications products and services provided to and used by low and no 88–89, 91 income sectors of the population PA6 Programmes to provide and maintain telecommunication products and services in emergency 92 situations and for disaster relief. PA7 Policies and practices to manage human rights issues relating to access and use of 91 telecommunications products and services PA10 Initiatives to ensure clarity of charges and tariffs 92–93 Technology Applications TA2 Provide examples of telecommunication products, services and applications that have the potential to 110–111 replace physical objects. TA5 Description of practices relating to intellectual property rights and open-source technologies. 94 GRI MEDIA SECTOR SPECIFIC INDICATORS Product Responsibility M2 Methodology for assessing and monitoring adherence to content creation values 91–92 M3 Actions taken to improve adherence to content creation values, and results obtained. 91–92 M4 Actions taken to improve performance in relation to content dissemination issues (accessibility 91–92 and protection of vulnerable audiences and informed decision making) and results obtained. M5 Number and nature of responses (feedback/complaints) related to content dissemination, including 91–92 protection of vulnerable audiences and informed decision making and accessibility, and processes for addressing these responses. M6 Methods to interact with audiences and results. 83–84, 91–92 M7 Actions taken to empower audiences through media literacy skills development and results obtained. 91–92 Financial Content Statements 126 Directors’ Report 136 Statement by Directors 137 Independent Auditors’ Report 138 Statements of Financial Position 139 Income Statements 139 Statements of Comprehensive Income 140 Statements of Changes in Equity 142 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement 143 Notes to the Financial Statements 181 Interested Person Transactions and Material Contracts 182 Shareholding Information 184 Notice of Fifteenth Annual General Meeting 187 Proxy Form IBC Corporate Information Annual Report 2012 / STARHUB LTD / 125 Directors' Report Year ended 31 December 2012 We are pleased to submit this report to the members of the Company together with the audited financial statements for the financial year ended 31 December 2012. Directors The directors in office at the date of this report are as follows: Tan Guong Ching (Chairman) Neil Montefiore (CEO) Kua Hong Pak Peter Seah Lim Huat Nihal Vijaya Devadas Kaviratne CBE Steven Terrell Clontz Lim Ming Seong Teo Ek Tor Liu Chee Ming Robert J. Sachs Nasser Marafih Takeshi Kazami (Appointed on 13 April 2012) Sio Tat Hiang (Appointed on 2 July 2012) Directors’ Interests According to the register kept by the Company for the purposes of Section 164 of the Singapore Companies Act, Chapter 50, particulars of interests of directors who held office at the end of the financial year (including those held by their spouses and infant children) in shares, debentures, warrants, share options and share awards in the Company and in related corporations (other than wholly-owned subsidiaries) are as follows: Shares in the Company and in related corporations 1 January 31 December 2012 2012 The Company Ordinary shares Tan Guong Ching 70,952 97,870 Neil Montefiore 750,000 200,400 Peter Seah Lim Huat 519,022 540,762 Nihal Vijaya Devadas Kaviratne CBE 134,812 + 200,052 + Steven Terrell Clontz 1,015,000 + 29,400 Lim Ming Seong 257,302 281,310 Teo Ek Tor 95,796 116,300 Liu Chee Ming 129,862 + 148,226 + Robert J. Sachs 66,412 83,276 Nasser Marafih 18,600 33,360 + Held (partly or wholly) by a nominee. 126 / STARHUB LTD / Annual Report 2012 Shares in the Company and in related corporations (continued) 1 January 2012/ 31 December Date of Appointment 2012 Related Corporations Singapore Airlines Limited Ordinary shares Tan Guong Ching 2,000 2,000 Singapore Technologies Engineering Ltd Ordinary shares Tan Guong Ching 47,399 55,375 Peter Seah Lim Huat 494,108 526,025 Lim Ming Seong 82,280 87,536 Singapore Telecommunications Limited Ordinary shares Tan Guong Ching 2,840 2,840 Kua Hong Pak 3,027 3,027 Peter Seah Lim Huat 3,040 3,040 SMRT Corporation Ltd Ordinary shares Tan Guong Ching 11,000 11,000 SP Australia Networks (Transmission) Ltd (“SPANTL”) SP Australia Networks (Distribution) Ltd (“SPANDL”) SP Australia Networks (Finance) Trust (“SPANFT”) Stapled securities comprising shares in SPANTL and SPANDL and units in SPANFT Tan Guong Ching 174,642 216,193 STATS ChipPAC Ltd Ordinary shares Peter Seah Lim Huat 6,900 6,900 Steven Terrell Clontz 800 800 Lim Ming Seong 6,900 6,900 TeleChoice International Limited Ordinary shares Peter Seah Lim Huat 50,000 50,000 Lim Ming Seong 60,000 60,000 Sio Tat Hiang 150,000 150,000 Annual Report 2012 / STARHUB LTD / 127 Directors' Report Year ended 31 December 2012 Options and other interests in the Company and in related corporations 1 January 31 December 2012 2012 The Company Conditional awards of shares under StarHub Performance Share Plan (1) (1) Neil Montefiore 303,600 303,600 (2) (2) 303,600 303,600 (3) – 304,000 (1) A conditional award was granted in May 2010. The performance period was from 2010 to 2012. No shares will be delivered if the threshold performance targets are not achieved while up to twice the number of shares that are the subject of the award will be delivered if the stretched performance targets are met or exceeded. (2) A conditional award was granted in March 2011. The performance period is from 2011 to 2013. No shares will be delivered if the threshold performance targets are not achieved while up to twice the number of shares that are the subject of the award will be delivered if the stretched performance targets are met or exceeded. (3) A conditional award was granted in May 2012. The performance period is from 2012 to 2014. No shares will be delivered if the threshold performance targets are not achieved while up to twice the number of shares that are the subject of the award will be delivered if the stretched performance targets are met or exceeded. 1 January 31 December 2012 2012 The Company Conditional awards of shares under StarHub Restricted Stock Plan (4) Tan Guong Ching 3,518 – (5) (5) 13,471 6,671 (6) (6) Neil Montefiore 264,000 140,800 (7) (7) 264,000 264,000 (8) – 264,000 (4) Peter Seah Lim Huat 2,740 – (5) (5) 10,930 5,330 (4) Nihal Vijaya Devadas Kaviratne CBE 2,740 – (5) (5) 10,930 5,330 (4) Lim Ming Seong 2,908 – (5) (5) 11,426 5,626 (4) Teo Ek Tor 2,604 – (5) (5) 10,038 4,938 (4) Liu Chee Ming 1,964 – (5) (5) 7,758 3,858 (4) Robert J. Sachs 1,964 – (5) (5) 7,758 3,858 128 / STARHUB LTD / Annual Report 2012 Options and other interests in the Company and in related corporations (continued) 1 January 31 December 2012 2012 The Company (continued) Conditional awards of shares under StarHub Restricted Stock Plan (4) Nasser Marafih 1,660 – (5) (5) 6,370 3,170 (4) A conditional award was granted in May 2008. The performance period was from 2008 to 2009. The final award was granted in 2010 based on the actual level of achievement of the pre-determined performance targets. The shares under the final award were delivered in phases according to the stipulated vesting periods from 2010 to 2012. (5) A conditional award was granted in May 2009. The performance period was from 2009 to 2010. The final award was granted in 2011 based on the actual level of achievement of the pre-determined performance targets. The shares under the final award were partially delivered in 2011 and 2012, and the balance will be delivered in 2013. (6) A conditional award was granted in May 2010. The performance period was from 2010 to 2011. The final award was granted in 2012 based on the actual level of achievement of the pre-determined performance targets. The shares under the final award were partially delivered in 2012, and the balance will be delivered in 2013 and 2014. (7) A conditional award was granted in March 2011. The performance period was from 2011 to 2012. No shares will be delivered if the threshold performance targets are not achieved while up to 1.5 times the number of shares that are the subject of the award will be delivered if the stretched performance targets are met or exceeded. Shares will be delivered in phases according to the stipulated vesting periods. (8) A conditional award was granted in May 2012. The performance period is from 2012 to 2013. No shares will be delivered if the threshold performance targets are not achieved while up to 1.5 times the number of shares that are the subject of the award will be delivered if the stretched performance targets are met or exceeded. Shares will be delivered in phases according to the stipulated vesting periods. Exercise 1 January 31 December Price 2012 2012 $ Exercise Period Related Corporations Singapore Technologies Engineering Ltd Tan Guong Ching 13,500 – 3.23 16.03.2008 to 15.03.2012 13,500 – 3.61 11.08.2008 to 10.08.2012 Peter Seah Lim Huat 44,500 – 3.23 16.03.2008 to 15.03.2012 44,500 – 3.61 11.08.2008 to 10.08.2012 Lim Ming Seong 7,500 – 3.23 16.03.2008 to 15.03.2012 7,500 – 3.61 11.08.2008 to 10.08.2012 Annual Report 2012 / STARHUB LTD / 129 Directors' Report Year ended 31 December 2012 Options and other interests in the Company and in related corporations (continued) 1 January 31 December 2012 2012 Related Corporations (continued) Singapore Technologies Engineering Ltd Conditional awards of shares (9) Tan Guong Ching 1,176 – (9) Peter Seah Lim Huat 6,517 – (9) Lim Ming Seong 856 – (9) The minimum threshold performance over the period from 1 January 2009 to 31 December 2009 was required for any restricted shares to be released. The final award was granted in 2010 based on the actual level of achievement of the pre-determined performance targets. The shares under the final award were delivered according to the stipulated vesting periods from 2010 to 2012. Exercise 1 January 31 December Price 2012 2012 $ Exercise Period STATS ChipPAC Ltd Options to subscribe for ordinary shares Peter Seah Lim Huat 70,000 70,000 1.99 06.08.2004 to 05.08.2013 35,000 35,000 1.91 17.02.2005 to 16.02.2014 Except as disclosed in this report, no director who held office at the end of the financial year had interests in shares, debentures, warrants, share options or share awards of the Company, or of its related corporations, either at the beginning of the financial year, or at date of appointment, if later, or at the end of the financial year. There were no changes in the above-mentioned directors’ interests in the Company between the end of the financial year and 21 January 2013. Except as disclosed under the “Options and other interests” section of this report, neither at the end of nor at any time during the financial year, was the Company a party to any arrangement whose objects are, or one of whose objects is, to enable the directors of the Company to acquire benefits by means of the acquisition of shares in or debentures of the Company or any other body corporate. Except as disclosed in this report and in notes 19.2.1 and 19.2.2 to the financial statements, since the end of the last financial year, no director has received or become entitled to receive a benefit by reason of a contract made by the Company or a related corporation with the director, or with a firm of which he is a member or with a company in which he has a substantial financial interest. Share-based Payments The StarHub Share Option Plan 2004, the StarHub Performance Share Plan and the StarHub Restricted Stock Plan (collectively referred to as the “Plans”) were approved and adopted by the members at an Extraordinary General Meeting of the Company held on 16 August 2004. The Plans and the StarHub Pte Ltd Share Option Plan (“StarHub Share Option Plan 2000”) are administered by the Company’s Executive Resource and Compensation Committee (“ERCC”) comprising three directors, namely Peter Seah Lim Huat (Chairman), Lim Ming Seong and Sio Tat Hiang. Lee Theng Kiat had resigned as a member of the ERCC on 20 June 2012. Sio Tat Hiang was appointed as a member of the ERCC on 2 July 2012. The Company designates Singapore Technologies Telemedia Pte Ltd as its parent company (“Parent Company”) for purposes of the Plans. 130 / STARHUB LTD / Annual Report 2012 Share-based Payments (continued) (a) Options granted under the StarHub Share Option Plan 2000 and the StarHub Share Option Plan 2004 (collectively, the “StarHub Share Option Plans”) (i) The StarHub Share Option Plan 2000 was terminated in 2004, while the StarHub Share Option Plan 2004 has been suspended since 2006. Hence, no option has been granted since 2006. The existing options granted were vested according to the terms of the StarHub Share Option Plan 2000, or as applicable, the StarHub Share Option Plan 2004 and the respective grants. (ii) Since 31 December 2010, there has been no option outstanding held by the directors of the Company. (iii) Details of options granted to directors of the Company under the StarHub Share Option Plans are as follows: Aggregate options granted and Aggregate options exercised accepted since commencement since commencement of the StarHub Share Option of the StarHub Share Option Name of director Plans to 31 December 2012 Plans to 31 December 2012 StarHub Share Option Plan 2000 Peter Seah Lim Huat 93,750 93,750 Lee Theng Kiat # 143,750 143,750 Steven Terrell Clontz 6,875,010 6,875,010 Lim Ming Seong 118,750 118,750 StarHub Share Option Plan 2004 Peter Seah Lim Huat 44,250 44,250 Nihal Vijaya Devadas Kaviratne CBE 44,250 44,250 Lee Theng Kiat # 44,250 44,250 Lim Ming Seong 44,250 44,250 Teo Ek Tor 44,250 44,250 Liu Chee Ming 44,250 44,250 Robert J. Sachs 25,500 25,500 # Lee Theng Kiat had resigned as a non-executive director on 20 June 2012. (iv) As at the end of the financial year, no options have been granted to controlling shareholders of the Company or its associates or to directors or employees of the Parent Company and its subsidiaries (“Parent Group”). (v) No options had been offered at a discount during the financial year. (vi) The options granted by the Company do not entitle the option holders, by virtue of such holding, to any rights to participate in any share issue of any other company. (vii) During the financial year, a total of 220,475 ordinary shares fully paid in the Company were issued and a total of 721,335 treasury shares were transferred pursuant to the exercise of options under the StarHub Share Option Plans at exercise prices of between $0.68 and $1.52 per share. Annual Report 2012 / STARHUB LTD / 131 Directors' Report Year ended 31 December 2012 Share-based Payments (continued) (viii) As at the end of the financial year, unissued shares of the Company under the StarHub Share Option Plans are as follows: Exercise price Number of Exercise Number of per share option holders period unissued shares $ 32 31.05.2004 to 30.05.2013 62,939 0.88 51 29.11.2004 to 28.11.2013 97,989 0.88 98 03.04.2005 to 02.04.2014 156,686 0.96 141 27.11.2005 to 26.11.2014 291,369 0.99 267 31.05.2006 to 30.05.2015 962,401 1.52 Total 1,571,384 Except as disclosed in this report, there were no other unissued shares of the Company or its subsidiaries under option as at the end of the financial year. (b) StarHub Performance Share Plan and StarHub Restricted Stock Plan (i) The StarHub Performance Share Plan and the StarHub Restricted Stock Plan were implemented with the objectives of motivating key executives to strive for superior performance and sustaining long-term growth for the Group. (ii) The following persons shall be eligible to participate in the aforesaid plans at the absolute discretion of the ERCC: (1) employees (including executive directors) and non-executive directors of the Group; (2) employees (including executive directors) and non-executive directors of the Parent Group who meet the relevant age and rank criteria and whose services have been seconded to a company within the Group and who shall be regarded as an employee of the Group for the purposes of the StarHub Performance Share Plan and the StarHub Restricted Stock Plan; and (3) employees and non-executive directors of the Company’s associated companies, who in the opinion of the ERCC, have contributed or will contribute to the success of the Group. (iii) Under the StarHub Performance Share Plan, awards of shares are granted on an annual basis, conditional on targets set for a performance period, currently prescribed to be a three-year period. Awards represent the right of a participant to receive fully paid shares, their equivalent cash value or combinations thereof, free of charge, upon the participant achieving prescribed performance targets set based on medium-term corporate objectives. Awards are released once the ERCC is satisfied that the prescribed performance targets have been achieved. The actual number of shares given will depend on the level of achievement of the prescribed performance targets over the performance period. The first performance target benchmarks the performance of the Company’s Total Shareholder Return (“TSR”) measured against the MSCI Asia-Pacific Telecommunications Index including Japan, over the performance period. The second performance target used is Wealth Added which measures the investment performance in terms of the Company’s TSR against shareholders’ expected returns by using cost of equity as a benchmark. Since the commencement of the StarHub Performance Share Plan to the financial year ended 31 December 2012, conditional awards aggregating 7,926,150 shares have been granted under the aforesaid plan. No shares will be delivered if the threshold performance targets are not achieved, while up to twice the number of shares that are the subject of the award will be delivered if the stretched performance targets are met or exceeded. 132 / STARHUB LTD / Annual Report 2012 Share-based Payments (continued) Details of share awards granted under the StarHub Performance Share Plan (or “PSP”), are as follows: Aggregate share awards granted since Aggregate Share awards commencement Share awards share awards granted during of the PSP to vested during the outstanding as at Participants the financial year 31 December 2012 financial year 31 December 2012 Executive director: Neil Montefiore 304,000 911,200 − 911,200 Key executives 660,000 5,071,950 642,000 1,531,450 (iv) Under the StarHub Restricted Stock Plan, awards granted vest only after the satisfactory completion of time-based service conditions (time-based restricted awards) or where the award is performance-related, after a further period of service beyond the performance period (performance-based restricted awards). No minimum vesting periods are prescribed under the StarHub Restricted Stock Plan and the length of the vesting period in respect of each award will be determined on a case-by-case basis. Performance-based restricted awards differ from awards granted under the StarHub Performance Share Plan in that an extended vesting period is imposed beyond the performance period. The performance-based restricted awards represent the right of a participant to receive fully paid shares, their equivalent cash value or combinations thereof, free of charge, upon the participant achieving prescribed performance targets. The actual number of shares to be released depends on the level of attainment of the performance targets over the performance period. For performance-based restricted awards granted prior to financial year ended 31 December 2008, (a) the first performance target benchmarks the performance of the Company’s TSR measured against the Straits Times Index (“STI”) over the performance period; and (b) the second performance target used is measured against Free Cashflow (“FCF”). For performance-based restricted awards granted during and from financial year ended 31 December 2008 onwards, the performance targets used are measured against the Return on Invested Capital (“ROIC”) and the FCF respectively. Since the commencement of the StarHub Restricted Stock Plan to the financial year ended 31 December 2012: (1) performance-based restricted awards aggregating 13,441,100 shares have been granted under the aforesaid Plan. No shares will be delivered if the threshold performance targets are not achieved, while up to 1.3 times or as the case may be 1.5 times, the number of shares that are the subject of the award, will be delivered if stretched performance targets are met or exceeded; (2) a time-based restricted award of 100,000 shares has been granted on 15 January 2009. The shares under this award were vested in three equal tranches over a 3-year period from 1 January 2009 to 31 December 2011 according to a specified vesting schedule; (3) a time-based restricted award of 213,000 shares has been granted on 17 May 2010. The shares under this award were vested in May 2011 upon the participants’ continued tenure as non-executive directors of the Company for a full one-year period from the date of grant; and (4) a restricted award of 155,900 shares has been granted on 7 June 2012. The shares under this award formed 30% of the non-executive directors’ remuneration for the financial year ended 31 December 2011 and were vested immediately without any further vesting period. Annual Report 2012 / STARHUB LTD / 133 Directors' Report Year ended 31 December 2012 Share-based Payments (continued) Details of share awards granted under the StarHub Restricted Stock Plan (or “RSP”), are as follows: Aggregate share awards granted since Aggregate Share awards commencement Share awards share awards granted during of the RSP to vested during the outstanding as at Participants the financial year 31 December 2012 financial year 31 December 2012 Non-executive directors: Tan Guong Ching 16,600 110,400 26,918 6,671 Peter Seah Lim Huat 13,400 88,600 21,740 5,330 Nihal Vijaya Devadas Kaviratne CBE 15,900 91,100 24,240 5,330 Lee Theng Kiat # 11,300 75,300 18,168 4,546 Steven Terrell Clontz 14,400 29,400 14,400 − Lim Ming Seong 15,300 95,600 24,008 5,626 Teo Ek Tor 12,800 81,700 20,504 4,938 Liu Chee Ming 12,500 66,500 18,364 3,858 Robert J. Sachs 11,000 65,000 16,864 3,858 Nasser Marafih 9,900 43,900 14,760 3,170 Executive director: Neil Montefiore 264,000 792,000 70,400 668,800 Key employees 1,745,000 11,528,400 1,060,098 4,499,110 # Lee Theng Kiat had resigned as a non-executive director on 20 June 2012. As at 31 December 2012, no participant has been granted options under the StarHub Share Option Plans and/or received shares pursuant to the release of awards granted under the StarHub Performance Share Plan and/or the StarHub Restricted Stock Plan, which, in aggregate, represents 5% or more of the aggregate of: (a) the total number of new shares available under the StarHub Share Option Plans, StarHub Performance Share Plan and StarHub Restricted Stock Plan collectively; and (b) the total number of existing shares delivered pursuant to options exercised under the StarHub Share Option Plans and awards released under the StarHub Performance Share Plan and the StarHub Restricted Stock Plan collectively. 134 / STARHUB LTD / Annual Report 2012 Audit Committee The members of the Audit Committee as at the date of this report are as follows: Kua Hong Pak, independent non-executive director (Chairman); Nihal Vijaya Devadas Kaviratne CBE, independent non-executive director; Lim Ming Seong, non-executive director; and Teo Ek Tor, independent non-executive director. The Audit Committee has held four meetings since the last directors’ report. In performing its functions, the Audit Committee met with the Company’s external and internal auditors to discuss the scope of their work, the results of their examination and evaluation of the Company’s internal accounting control system. The Audit Committee has also reviewed the following: (1) assistance provided by the Company’s officers to the internal and external auditors; (2) financial statements of the Company and its subsidiaries prior to their submission to the directors of the Company for adoption; and (3) interested person transactions (as defined in Chapter 9 of the Listing Manual of the Singapore Exchange Securities Trading Limited) of the Company and its subsidiaries and the Company’s compliance with the review procedures of such transactions. The Audit Committee has full access to management and is given the resources required for it to discharge its functions. It has full authority and the discretion to invite any director or executive officer to attend its meetings. The Audit Committee also recommends the appointment of the external auditors and reviews the level of audit and non-audit fees. The Audit Committee has undertaken a review of all non-audit services provided by the external auditors, and is satisfied with the independence and objectivity of the external auditors and has recommended to the Board of Directors that KPMG LLP be nominated for re-appointment as auditors at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting of the Company. Auditors The auditors, KPMG LLP, have expressed their willingness to accept re-appointment. On behalf of the Board of Directors Tan Guong Ching Neil Montefiore Director Director Singapore 7 February 2013 Annual Report 2012 / STARHUB LTD / 135 Statement by Directors Year ended 31 December 2012 In our opinion: (a) the financial statements set out on pages 138 to 180 are drawn up so as to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and of the Company as at 31 December 2012 and the results and changes in equity of the Group and of the Company and the cash flows of the Group for the year ended on that date in accordance with the provisions of the Singapore Companies Act, Chapter 50 and Singapore Financial Reporting Standards; and (b) at the date of this statement, there are reasonable grounds to believe that the Company will be able to pay its debts as and when they fall due. The Board of Directors has, on the date of this statement, authorised these financial statements for issue. On behalf of the Board of Directors Tan Guong Ching Neil Montefiore Director Director Singapore 7 February 2013 136 / STARHUB LTD / Annual Report 2012 Independent Auditors' Report Members of the Company StarHub Ltd Report on the financial statements We have audited the accompanying financial statements of StarHub Ltd (the Company) and its subsidiaries (the Group), which comprise the statements of financial position of the Group and the Company as at 31 December 2012, the income statement and statement of comprehensive income, statement of changes in equity and statement of cash flows of the Group, and the income statement and statement of comprehensive income and statement of changes in equity of Company for the year then ended, and a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information, as set out on pages 138 to 180. Management’s responsibility for the financial statements Management is responsible for the preparation of financial statements that give a true and fair view in accordance with the provisions of the Singapore Companies Act, Chapter 50 (the Act) and Singapore Financial Reporting Standards, and for devising and maintaining a system of internal accounting controls sufficient to provide a reasonable assurance that assets are safeguarded against loss from unauthorised use or disposition; and transactions are properly authorised and that they are recorded as necessary to permit the preparation of true and fair profit and loss accounts and balance sheets and to maintain accountability of assets. Auditors’ responsibility Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audit. We conducted our audit in accordance with Singapore Standards on Auditing. Those Standards require that we comply with ethical requirements and plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance whether the financial statements are free from material misstatement. An audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. The procedures selected depend on the auditor’s judgement, including the assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to fraud or error. In making those risk assessments, the auditor considers internal control relevant to the entity’s preparation of financial statements that give a true and fair view in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the entity’s internal control. An audit also includes evaluating the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the financial statements. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion. Opinion In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements of the Group and the statement of financial position, the income statement and statement of comprehensive income and statement of changes in equity of the Company are properly drawn up in accordance with the provisions of the Act and Singapore Financial Reporting Standards to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and of the Company as at 31 December 2012 and the results, changes in equity and cash flows of the Group and the results and changes in equity of the Company for the year ended on that date. Report on other legal and regulatory requirements In our opinion, the accounting and other records required by the Act to be kept by the Company and by those subsidiaries incorporated in Singapore of which we are the auditors have been properly kept in accordance with the provisions of the Act. KPMG LLP Public Accountants and Certified Public Accountants Singapore 7 February 2013 Annual Report 2012 / STARHUB LTD / 137 Statements of Financial Position As at 31 December 2012 GROUP COMPANY 2012 2011 2012 2011 Note $’mil $’mil $’mil $’mil Non-current assets Property, plant and equipment 3 791.1 761.9 367.7 344.9 Intangible assets 4 397.0 423.6 105.9 126.9 Subsidiaries 5 – – 1,202.1 1,202.1 Balances with related parties 10 – – 600.0 – Deferred tax assets 6 2.5 2.8 – – 1,190.6 1,188.3 2,275.7 1,673.9 Current assets Inventories 7 28.1 37.2 21.2 29.0 Trade receivables 8 142.3 152.0 130.9 139.9 Other receivables, deposits and prepayments 9 123.6 149.2 20.4 22.0 Balances with related parties 10 12.0 17.2 48.2 661.6 Cash and cash equivalents 11 312.0 179.2 245.7 154.3 618.0 534.8 466.4 1,006.8 Current liabilities Trade and other payables 12 (728.1) (702.9) (344.5) (353.4) Balances with related parties 10 (56.5) (41.9) (321.5) (296.0) Borrowings 13 – (75.0) – (75.0) Provision for taxation (94.6) (83.5) (51.4) (55.7) (879.2) (903.3) (717.4) (780.1) Net current (liabilities)/assets (261.2) (368.5) (251.0) 226.7 Non-current liabilities Trade and other payables 12 (37.5) (34.1) (37.5) (34.1) Borrowings 13 (687.5) (587.5) (687.5) (587.5) Deferred income 14 (41.7) (62.8) – – Deferred tax liabilities 6 (119.2) (112.8) (72.4) (69.8) (885.9) (797.2) (797.4) (691.4) Net assets 43.5 22.6 1,227.3 1,209.2 Shareholders’ equity Share capital 15 263.1 262.8 263.1 262.8 Reserves 17 (219.6) (240.2) 964.2 946.4 Total equity 43.5 22.6 1,227.3 1,209.2 The accompanying notes form an integral part of these financial statements. 138 / STARHUB LTD / Annual Report 2012 Income Statements Year ended 31 December 2012 GROUP COMPANY 2012 2011 2012 2011 Note $’mil $’mil $’mil $’mil Operating revenue 18 2,421.6 2,312.0 1,185.2 1,108.4 Operating expenses 19 (2,001.0) (1,935.2) (1,080.6) (1,018.8) Other income 20 26.7 21.4 295.9 290.9 447.3 398.2 400.5 380.5 Finance income 21 4.1 2.1 20.1 17.6 Finance expense 21 (20.0) (20.5) (21.4) (20.6) Net finance costs (15.9) (18.4) (1.3) (3.0) Profit before taxation 431.4 379.8 399.2 377.5 Taxation 22 (72.1) (64.3) (42.7) (29.2) Profit for the year 359.3 315.5 356.5 348.3 Attributable to: Equity holders of the Company 359.3 315.5 356.5 348.3 Profit for the year 359.3 315.5 356.5 348.3 Earnings per share Basic (cents) 23 20.9 18.4 Diluted (cents) 23 20.8 18.3 EBITDA 24 719.8 676.0 Statements of Comprehensive Income Year ended 31 December 2012 GROUP COMPANY 2012 2011 2012 2011 $’mil $’mil $’mil $’mil Profit for the year 359.3 315.5 356.5 348.3 Other comprehensive income Effective portion of changes in fair value of cash flow hedge (0.4) 1.1 (0.4) 1.1 Total comprehensive income for the year, (net of taxation) 358.9 316.6 356.1 349.4 Total comprehensive income for the year attributable to: Equity holders of the Company 358.9 316.6 356.1 349.4 The accompanying notes form an integral part of these financial statements. Annual Report 2012 / STARHUB LTD / 139 Statements of Changes in Equity Year Ended 31 December 2012 Share-based Share Treasury Goodwill Payments Hedging Retained Total Total Capital Shares Written Off Reserve Reserve Profits Reserves Equity GROUP $’mil $’mil $’mil $’mil $’mil $’mil $’mil $’mil At 1.1.2011 260.3 (0.1) (276.3) 15.7 (7.7) 62.1 (206.3) 54.0 Total comprehensive income for the year Profit for the year – – – – – 315.5 315.5 315.5 Other comprehensive income Effective portion of changes in fair value of cash flow hedge, (net of taxation) – – – – 1.1 – 1.1 1.1 Total comprehensive income for the year – – – – 1.1 315.5 316.6 316.6 Transactions with equity holders of the Company, recognised directly in equity Contributions by and distributions to equity holders of the Company Issue of shares pursuant to share plans 2.5 – – (1.7) – – (1.7) 0.8 Share-based payments expenses – – – 2.4 – – 2.4 2.4 Purchase of treasury shares – (9.1) – – – – (9.1) (9.1) Transfer from treasury shares to share-based payments reserve – 3.7 – (2.5) – – 1.2 1.2 Dividends paid (note 16) – – – – – (343.3) (343.3) (343.3) Total transactions with equity holders of the Company 2.5 (5.4) – (1.8) – (343.3) (350.5) (348.0) At 31.12.2011 262.8 (5.5) (276.3) 13.9 (6.6) 34.3 (240.2) 22.6 At 1.1.2012 262.8 (5.5) (276.3) 13.9 (6.6) 34.3 (240.2) 22.6 Total comprehensive income for the year Profit for the year – – – – – 359.3 359.3 359.3 Other comprehensive income Effective portion of changes in fair value of cash flow hedge, (net of taxation) – – – – (0.4) – (0.4) (0.4) Total comprehensive income for the year – – – – (0.4) 359.3 358.9 358.9 Transactions with equity holders of the Company, recognised directly in equity Contributions by and distributions to equity holders of the Company Issue of shares pursuant to share plans 0.3 – – – – – – 0.3 Share-based payments expenses – – – 6.4 – – 6.4 6.4 Purchase of treasury shares – (2.3) – – – – (2.3) (2.3) Transfer from treasury shares to share-based payments reserve – 7.6 – (6.6) – – 1.0 1.0 Dividends paid (note 16) – – – – – (343.4) (343.4) (343.4) Total transactions with equity holders of the Company 0.3 5.3 – (0.2) – (343.4) (338.3) (338.0) At 31.12.2012 263.1 (0.2) (276.3) 13.7 (7.0) 50.2 (219.6) 43.5 The accompanying notes form an integral part of these financial statements. 140 / STARHUB LTD / Annual Report 2012 Merger/ Share-based Share Treasury Capital Payments Hedging Retained Total Total Capital Shares Reserve Reserve Reserve Profits Reserves Equity COMPANY $’mil $’mil $’mil $’mil $’mil $’mil $’mil $’mil At 1.1.2011 260.3 (0.1) 276.5 15.7 (7.7) 663.1 947.5 1,207.8 Total comprehensive income for the year Profit for the year – – – – – 348.3 348.3 348.3 Other comprehensive income Effective portion of changes in fair value of cash flow hedge, (net of taxation) – – – – 1.1 – 1.1 1.1 Total comprehensive income for the year – – – – 1.1 348.3 349.4 349.4 Transactions with equity holders of the Company, recognised directly in equity Contributions by and distributions to equity holders of the Company Issue of shares pursuant to share plans 2.5 – – (1.7) – – (1.7) 0.8 Share-based payments expenses – – – 2.4 – – 2.4 2.4 Purchase of treasury shares – (9.1) – – – – (9.1) (9.1) Transfer from treasury shares to share-based payments reserve – 3.7 – (2.5) – – 1.2 1.2 Dividends paid (note 16) – – – – – (343.3) (343.3) (343.3) Total transactions with equity holders of the Company 2.5 (5.4) – (1.8) – (343.3) (350.5) (348.0) At 31.12.2011 262.8 (5.5) 276.5 13.9 (6.6) 668.1 946.4 1,209.2 At 1.1.2012 262.8 (5.5) 276.5 13.9 (6.6) 668.1 946.4 1,209.2 Total comprehensive income for the year Profit for the year – – – – – 356.5 356.5 356.5 Other comprehensive income Effective portion of changes in fair value of cash flow hedge, (net of taxation) – – – – (0.4) – (0.4) (0.4) Total comprehensive income for the year – – – – (0.4) 356.5 356.1 356.1 Transactions with equity holders of the Company, recognised directly in equity Contributions by and distributions to equity holders of the Company Issue of shares pursuant to share plans 0.3 – – – – – – 0.3 Share-based payments expenses – – – 6.4 – – 6.4 6.4 Purchase of treasury shares – (2.3) – – – – (2.3) (2.3) Transfer from treasury shares to share-based payments reserve – 7.6 – (6.6) – – 1.0 1.0 Dividends paid (note 16) – – – – – (343.4) (343.4) (343.4) Total transactions with equity holders of the Company 0.3 5.3 – (0.2) – (343.4) (338.3) (338.0) At 31.12.2012 263.1 (0.2) 276.5 13.7 (7.0) 681.2 964.2 1,227.3 The accompanying notes form an integral part of these financial statements. Annual Report 2012 / STARHUB LTD / 141 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement Year ended 31 December 2012 2012 2011 $’mil $’mil Operating activities Profit before taxation 431.4 379.8 Adjustments for: Depreciation and amortisation (net of asset grants) 272.5 277.8 Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets 0.4 3.8 Income related grants (26.7) (21.4) Share-based payments 6.4 2.4 Changes in fair value of financial instruments 0.6 (2.0) Net finance costs 15.9 18.4 Other non-cash items 1.0 (0.9) Operating cash flow before working capital changes 701.5 657.9 Changes in working capital: Inventories 9.1 (5.4) Trade receivables 9.7 21.9 Other receivables, deposits and prepayments (18.1) (3.7) Trade and other payables 21.5 26.1 Balances due from related parties 5.2 (0.8) Balances due to related parties 14.6 0.2 Cash generated from operations 743.5 696.2 Income tax paid (54.0) – Net cash from operating activities 689.5 696.2 Investing activities Proceeds from disposal of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets 1.0 0.5 Purchase of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets (272.7) (246.5) Interest received 4.0 2.0 Net cash used in investing activities (267.7) (244.0) Financing activities Proceeds from exercise of share options 1.1 1.7 Proceeds from bank loans 80.0 187.5 Proceeds from issuance of medium term note 220.0 – Grants received 50.5 4.9 Repayment of bank loans (275.0) (330.4) Dividends paid (343.4) (343.3) Interest paid (19.9) (21.8) Purchase of treasury shares (2.3) (9.1) Net cash used in financing activities (289.0) (510.5) Net change in cash and cash equivalents 132.8 (58.3) Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 179.2 237.5 Cash and cash equivalents at end of year (note 11) 312.0 179.2 The accompanying notes form an integral part of these financial statements. 142 / STARHUB LTD / Annual Report 2012 Notes to the Financial Statements Year ended 31 December 2012 These notes form an integral part of the financial statements. The financial statements were authorised for issue by the Board of Directors on 7 February 2013. 1 Domicile and Activities StarHub Ltd (“StarHub” or the “Company”) is incorporated in the Republic of Singapore and has its registered office at 67 Ubi Avenue 1, #05-01 StarHub Green, Singapore 408942. The principal activities of the Company are those relating to the operation and provision of telecommunications services and other businesses relating to the info-communications industry. The principal activities of the subsidiaries are set out in note 5 to the financial statements. The consolidated financial statements relate to the Company and its subsidiaries (the “Group”). 2 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies 2.1 Basis of preparation The financial statements are prepared in accordance with Singapore Financial Reporting Standards (FRS) pursuant to the requirements of the Companies Act, Chapter 50. The financial statements are prepared on a historical cost basis except for certain financial assets and liabilities which are measured at fair value as disclosed in the accounting policies below. The financial statements are presented in Singapore dollars which is the Company’s functional currency. All financial information presented in Singapore dollars has been rounded to the nearest million, unless otherwise stated. The accounting policies set out below have been applied consistently by the Group to all periods presented in these financial statements, except as disclosed below. Adoption of new and revised standards In the current financial year, the Group has adopted all the new and revised FRSs and Interpretations of FRSs (“INT FRSs”) that are relevant to its operations and effective for annual periods beginning on 1 January 2012. The adoption of these new/ revised FRSs and INT FRSs does not result in substantial changes to the Group’s accounting policies and has no material effect on the amounts reported for the current or prior years. New accounting standards and interpretations not yet adopted Certain accounting standards (including their consequential amendments) and interpretations that have been issued as of the reporting date and are relevant to its operations but are not yet effective have not been applied by the Group. The initial application of the standards and interpretations relevant to the Group’s operations is not expected to have any material impact on the Group’s financial statements. The Group has not considered the impact of the accounting standards issued after 31 December 2012. 2.2 Consolidation Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the Group. Control exists when the Group has the power, directly or indirectly, to govern the financial and operating policies of an entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities. In assessing control, the Group takes into consideration potential voting rights that are currently exercisable. Investments in subsidiaries are stated in the Company’s statement of financial position at cost less impairment losses. Subsidiaries are consolidated with the Company in the Group’s financial statements. Acquisitions of subsidiaries from related corporations controlled by the ultimate holding company, Temasek Holdings (Private) Limited (“Temasek”), are accounted for as reconstructions of businesses under common control using the historical cost method similar to the “pooling of interest” method. Annual Report 2012 / STARHUB LTD / 143 Notes to the Financial Statements Year ended 31 December 2012 2.2 Consolidation (continued) Under the historical cost method, the acquired assets and liabilities were recorded at their existing carrying amounts. The consolidated financial statements included the results of operations, and the assets and liabilities, of the pooled enterprises as part of the Group for the whole of the current and preceding periods. To the extent that the par value of the shares issued in consideration for these transactions exceeded the par value of the shares held by the related corporations, the difference was recognised as a merger reserve in the Group’s financial statements. The consolidated financial statements include the financial statements of the Company and its subsidiaries made up to the end of the financial year. Assets and liabilities of foreign subsidiaries are translated into Singapore dollars at rates of exchange closely approximate to those ruling at the reporting date. Income, expenses and cash flows are translated at average rates prevailing during the period. Translation differences are recognised in other comprehensive income, and are presented within equity in the foreign currency translation reserve. However, if the operation is a non-wholly-owned subsidiary, then the relevant proportionate share of the translation difference is allocated to the non-controlling interests. When a foreign subsidiary is disposed of such that control is lost, the cumulative amount in the foreign currency translation reserve related to that foreign subsidiary is transferred to the income statement as an adjustment to the profit or loss arising on disposal. When the Group disposes of only part of its interest in a subsidiary that includes a foreign operation while retaining control, the relevant proportion of the cumulative amount is reattributed to non-controlling interests. All significant intra-group transactions, balances and unrealised gains/losses are eliminated on consolidation. Unrealised gains are eliminated in full. Unrealised losses are eliminated in the same way as unrealised gains but only to the extent that there is no evidence of impairment. Otherwise they are recognised immediately in the income statement. 2.3 Property, plant and equipment and depreciation Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment losses. Cost includes expenditure that is directly attributable to the acquisition of the asset. The costs of self-constructed assets include the cost of materials and direct labour, an appropriate proportion of overheads, the costs of dismantling and removing the assets and restoring the site on which they are located and capitalised borrowing costs. Subsequent expenditure relating to existing property, plant and equipment is added to the carrying amount of the asset when it is probable that future economic benefits, in excess of the originally assessed standard of performance of the existing asset, will flow to the Group. All other subsequent expenditure is recognised as an expense in the year in which it is incurred. Gains or losses arising from the retirement or disposal of property, plant and equipment are determined as the difference between the estimated net disposal proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset and are recognised in the income statement on the date of retirement or disposal. Depreciation is provided on the straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives as follows: Leasehold building – 30 years Leasehold improvements – Shorter of lease term or 5 years Network equipment – 2 years to 15 years Office equipment, computers and furniture and fittings – 2 years to 5 years Motor vehicles – 5 years Depreciation methods, useful lives and residual values are reviewed, and adjusted as appropriate, at each reporting date. No depreciation is provided on freehold property. No depreciation is provided in respect of property, plant and equipment under construction. 144 / STARHUB LTD / Annual Report 2012 2.4 Intangible assets Goodwill Acquisitions prior to 1 January 2010 Goodwill arising on acquisition prior to 1 January 2010 represents the excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair value of the Group’s share of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of the acquiree. Acquisitions on or after 1 January 2010 For acquisitions on or after 1 January 2010, the Group measures goodwill at the acquisition date as: • the fair value of the consideration transferred; plus • the recognised amount of any non-controlling interests in the acquiree; plus if the business combination is achieved in stages, the fair value of the existing equity interest in the acquiree; less • the net recognised amount (generally fair value) of the identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed. When the excess is negative, a bargain purchase gain is recognised immediately in profit or loss. Goodwill is stated at cost less accumulated impairment losses. Goodwill is tested for impairment on an annual basis as described in note 2.5. Goodwill arising on acquisitions of subsidiaries that occurred prior to 1 January 2001 was written off against reserves in the year of acquisition and has not been retrospectively capitalised and amortised. Goodwill that has previously been taken to reserves is not taken to the income statement when the business is disposed or the goodwill is impaired. Similarly negative goodwill that has previously been taken to reserves is not taken to income statement when the business is disposed of. Telecommunications licences Telecommunications licences costs incurred is measured at cost less accumulated amortisation and accumulated impairment losses. These costs are amortised to income statement using the straight-line method over the period of the licence, being 10 years to 21 years, commencing from the effective date of the licence. Computer software Computer software comprises software purchased from third parties, and also the cost of internally developed software. Computer software is stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and accumulated impairment losses. These costs are amortised to income statement using the straight-line method over their estimated useful lives of 2 years to 5 years. Subsequent expenditure on capitalised intangible assets is added to the carrying value only when it increases the future economic benefits embodied in the specific asset to which it relates. All other expenditure is recognised in income statement as incurred. Computer software integral to a related item of equipment is accounted for as property, plant and equipment. Amortisation methods, useful lives and residual values are reviewed at each financial year end and adjusted if appropriate. 2.5 Impairment The carrying amounts of the Group’s assets, other than inventories and deferred tax assets, are reviewed at each reporting date to determine whether there is any indication of impairment. If any such indication exists, the asset’s recoverable amount is estimated. An impairment loss is recognised whenever the carrying amount of an asset or its cash-generating unit (CGU) exceeds its recoverable amount. Impairment losses are recognised in the income statement unless it reverses a previous revaluation, in which case it is charged to other comprehensive income. For goodwill, intangible assets with indefinite useful lives and intangible assets not yet available for use, the recoverable amount is estimated each year at the same time. An impairment loss is recognised if the carrying amount of an asset or its related cash-generating unit exceeds its estimated recoverable amounts. Annual Report 2012 / STARHUB LTD / 145 Notes to the Financial Statements Year ended 31 December 2012 2.5 Impairment (continued) Impairment losses recognised in respect of CGU are allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to the CGU (group of units) and then, to reduce the carrying amount of other assets in the CGU (group of units) on a pro rata basis. Calculation of recoverable amount The recoverable amount of an asset or its CGU is the greater of its value in use and its fair value less costs to sell. In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset or CGU. For an asset that does not generate cash inflows largely independent of those from other assets, the recoverable amount is determined for the cash-generating unit to which the asset belongs. For the purpose of goodwill impairment testing, CGUs to which goodwill has been allocated are aggregated so that the level at which impairment testing is performed reflects the lowest level within the Group at which goodwill is monitored for internal reporting purposes. Reversals of impairment An impairment loss recognised in prior periods for an asset other than goodwill is reversed if there has been a change in the estimates used to determine the recoverable amount. An impairment loss is reversed only to the extent that the asset’s carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined, net of depreciation or amortisation, if no impairment loss had been recognised. All reversals of impairment are recognised in the income statement. 2.6 Inventories Inventories comprise goods held for resale and reserved telephone numbers. Inventories are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value. The cost of goods held for resale is determined on the weighted average basis. Reserved telephone numbers are stated at cost and accounted for using the specific identification basis. Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, less the estimated costs necessary to make the sale. Allowance for obsolescence is made for all deteriorated, damaged, obsolete and slow-moving inventories. 2.7 Trade and other receivables Trade and other receivables (including balances with related parties) are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, less allowance for doubtful receivables. Allowance for doubtful receivables is made based on historical write-off patterns and ageing of accounts receivables. Bad debts are written off when incurred. 2.8 Cash and cash equivalents For the purpose of presentation in the consolidated cash flow statement, cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances and deposits with financial institutions and bank overdrafts which are repayable on demand and which form an integral part of the Group’s cash management. 2.9 Trade and other payables Trade and other payables (including balances with related parties) are initially recognised at fair value, and subsequently carried at amortised cost using the effective interest method. 2.10 Borrowings Borrowings are initially recognised at fair value of the proceeds received less directly attributable transaction costs. After initial recognition, borrowings are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method. Any difference between the proceeds (net of transactions costs) and the settlement or redemption of borrowings is recognised in income statement over the period of the borrowings. 146 / STARHUB LTD / Annual Report 2012 2.11 Employee benefits Share-based payment Share Option Plans The Share Option Plans allow the Group employees and directors to acquire shares of the Company. The fair value of options granted is recognised as an employee expense with a corresponding increase in equity. The fair value is measured at grant date and spread over the period during which the employees and directors become unconditionally entitled to the options. At each reporting date, the Company revises its estimates of the number of options that are expected to become exercisable. It recognises the impact of the revision of original estimates in employee expense and in a corresponding adjustment to equity over the remaining vesting period. The proceeds received net of any directly attributable transactions costs are credited to share capital when the options are exercised. Performance Share Plan and Restricted Stock Plan The Performance Share Plan and the Restricted Stock Plan are accounted as equity-settled share-based payments. Equitysettled share-based payments are measured at fair value at the date of grant. The share-based expense is amortised and recognised in the income statement on a straight line basis over the vesting period. At each reporting date, the Company revises its estimates of the number of shares that the participating employees and directors are expected to receive based on non-market vesting conditions. The difference is charged or credited to the income statement, with a corresponding adjustment to equity. Defined contribution plans Contributions to defined contribution plans are recognised as an expense in the income statement when incurred. Other short-term benefits Short-term employee benefit obligations are measured on an undiscounted basis and are expensed as the related service is provided. A provision is recognised for the amount expected to be paid under short-term cash bonus or Performance Cash Plan if the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation to pay this amount as a result of past service provided by the employee and the obligation can be estimated reliably. 2.12 Customer loyalty programmes For customer loyalty programmes, the fair value of the consideration received or receivable from a sales transaction which attracts customer loyalty credits or points is allocated between the customer loyalty points and the other component of the sale. The amount allocated to the customer loyalty points is estimated by reference to the fair value of the customer loyalty points for which they could be redeemed. The fair value of the customer loyalty points is estimated by taking into account the expected redemption rate and the timing of such expected redemptions. Such amount is deferred and recorded as unearned revenue until the customer loyalty points are redeemed. At this juncture, the cost of fulfilling the customer loyalty credits is also recognised. 2.13 Provisions Provisions are recognised in the balance sheet when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event, and it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of obligation. If the effect is material, provisions are determined by discounting the expected future cash flows at a pre-tax rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and, where appropriate, the risks specific to the liability. 2.14 Share capital Ordinary shares are classified as equity. Incremental costs directly attributable to the issuance of new equity shares are recognised as a deduction from equity, net of any tax effects. Where share capital recognised as equity is repurchased and held as treasury shares, the amount of the consideration paid, including directly attributable costs, net of any tax effects, is presented as a deduction from equity. Where such shares are subsequently reissued, sold or cancelled, the consideration received is recognised as a change in equity. No gain or loss is recognised in the income statement. Annual Report 2012 / STARHUB LTD / 147 Notes to the Financial Statements Year ended 31 December 2012 2.15 Revenue recognition Revenue comprises fees earned from telecommunications services, broadband access, Pay TV, related advertising space and sale of equipment. Revenue is recognised to the extent that it is probable that the economic benefits will flow to the Group and the revenue can be reliably measured. Revenue is recognised in the income statement as follows: • Revenue from telecommunications, broadband and cable television services and advertising space is recognised at the time such services are rendered. Revenue billed in advance of the rendering of services is deferred and presented in the statement of financial position as unearned revenue. • Revenue from sale of pre-paid phone cards for which services have not been rendered is deferred and presented in the statement of financial position as unearned revenue. Upon the expiry of pre-paid phone cards, any unutilised value of the cards is taken to the income statement. • Revenue from sale of equipment is recognised upon delivery and acceptance of the equipment sold. • Revenue from bundled products and services is recognised based on values allocated to the individual elements of the bundled products and services in accordance to the earning process of each element. • Interest income is recognised on a time-apportioned basis taking into account the principal outstanding at the applicable rate. 2.16 Finance costs Interest expense and similar charges are recognised in the income statement using the effective interest method, except to the extent that they are capitalised as being directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of an asset which necessarily takes a substantial period of time to prepare for its intended use or sale. 2.17 Government grants Government grants received, which are designated for the purchase of property, plant and equipment, are accreted to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of the related assets, so as to match the related depreciation expense. Government grants received, which are designated for operating expenditure, are recognised on a systematic basis in the income statement over the periods necessary to match the related cost which they are intended to compensate. 2.18 Marketing and promotions Advertising costs are expensed when incurred. The direct costs of acquiring customers, including commission and promotion expenses, are recognised in the income statement when incurred. 2.19 Operating leases Where the Group has the use of assets under operating leases, payments made under the leases are recognised in the income statement on a straight-line basis over the terms of the lease. Lease incentives received are recognised in the income statement as an integral part of the total lease payments made. Contingent rentals are charged to the income statement in the accounting period in which they are incurred. 2.20 Income taxes Income taxes comprise current tax and deferred tax. Income taxes are recognised in the income statement except to the extent that it relates to items recognised directly in equity, in which case such tax is recognised in equity, or in other comprehensive income. Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the year, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the reporting date, and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous years. Deferred tax is recognised in respect of temporary differences at the balance sheet date arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the financial statements. 148 / STARHUB LTD / Annual Report 2012 2.20 Income taxes (continued) Deferred tax is provided based on the expected realisation or settlement of the temporary differences, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the reporting date. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are not recognised for the following temporary differences: the initial recognition of goodwill, the initial recognition of assets or liabilities in a transaction other than a business combination that affects neither accounting nor taxable profit, and differences relating to investments in subsidiaries to the extent that it is probable that they will not reverse in the foreseeable future. A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profit will be available against which the temporary differences can be utilised. Deferred tax assets are reviewed at each reporting date and are reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that the related tax benefit will be realised. 2.21 Dividends Interim dividends to the Company’s shareholders are recognised in the financial year in which they are declared payable. Final dividends to the Company’s shareholders are recognised in the financial year in which the dividends are approved by the shareholders. 2.22 Foreign currencies Monetary assets and liabilities in foreign currencies are translated into Singapore dollars at exchange rates approximate to those ruling at the reporting date. Transactions in foreign currencies are translated at rates ruling on transaction dates. The translation differences arising from such transactions are included in the income statement. Non-monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies that are measured at fair value are translated into Singapore dollars at the exchange rate at the date on which fair value was determined. 2.23 Derivative financial instruments The Group uses interest rate swaps and forward foreign exchange contracts to hedge its exposure to interest rate risks and foreign exchange risks arising from operational, financing and investment activities. In accordance with its treasury policy, the Group does not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for trading purposes. Derivative financial instruments are recognised initially at fair value. Subsequent to initial recognition, derivative financial instruments are remeasured at fair value prevailing at reporting date. The gain or loss on remeasurement to fair value is recognised immediately in the income statement. However, where derivatives qualify for hedge accounting, recognition of any resultant gain or loss depends on the nature of the item being hedged as described in note 2.24. The fair value of interest rate swaps is the estimated amount that the Group would receive or pay to terminate the swap at the reporting date, taking into account current interest rates and the current creditworthiness of the swap counterparties. The fair value of forward exchange contracts is their quoted market price at the reporting date, being the present value of the quoted forward price. 2.24 Hedging Cash flow hedges Where a derivative financial instrument is designated as a hedge of the variability in cash flows of a recognised asset or liability, or a highly probable forecast transaction, the effective part of any gain or loss on the derivative financial instrument is recognised directly in other comprehensive income and presented in the Hedging Reserve in equity. Annual Report 2012 / STARHUB LTD / 149 Notes to the Financial Statements Year ended 31 December 2012 2.24 Hedging (continued) Cash flow hedges (continued) When the forecast transaction subsequently results in the recognition of a non-financial asset or non-financial liability, or the forecast transaction for a non-financial asset or non-financial liability becomes a firm commitment for which fair value hedge accounting is applied, the associated cumulative gain or loss is removed from other comprehensive income and included in the initial cost or other carrying amount of the non-financial asset or liability. If a hedge of a forecast transaction subsequently results in the recognition of a financial asset or financial liability, the associated gains and losses that were recognised in other comprehensive income are reclassified into the income statement in the same period or periods during which the asset acquired or liability assumed affects the income statement (i.e. when interest income or expense is recognised). For other cash flow hedges, the associated cumulative gain or loss that was recognised in other comprehensive income is removed and recognised in the income statement in the same period or periods during which the hedged forecast transaction affects the income statement. The ineffective part of any gain or loss is recognised immediately in the income statement. When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, or the entity revokes designation of the hedge relationship but the hedged forecast transaction is still expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss at that point remains in other comprehensive income and is recognised in accordance with the above policy when the transaction occurs. If the hedged transaction is no longer expected to take place, the cumulative unrealised gain or loss recognised in other comprehensive income is recognised immediately in the income statement. Hedge of monetary assets and liabilities Where a derivative financial instrument is used to hedge economically the foreign exchange exposure of a recognised monetary asset or liability, no hedge accounting is applied and any gain or loss on the hedging instrument is recognised in the income statement. 2.25 Segment reporting With the adoption of FRS 108, segment information is presented based on the information reviewed by chief operating decision maker (“CODM”) for performance assessment and resource allocation. The Group operates primarily in Singapore and delivers its Mobile, Pay TV, Broadband, Fixed network services and equipment sales on an operationally integrated network, customer service, sales, marketing and administration support. Based on the financial information regularly reviewed by the CODM, the Group has one operating and reporting segment. 2.26 Significant accounting estimates and judgements The preparation of financial statements requires management to make judgements in the application of accounting policies. It also requires the use of accounting estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements; and the reported income and expenses during the financial year. These estimates are based on management’s best knowledge and judgement of current events and environment. Actual results may ultimately differ from these estimates. Estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis. Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the period in which the estimates are revised and in any future periods affected. In the application of the Group’s accounting policies, which are described in note 2, management is of the opinion that there is no instance of application of judgement which is expected to have a significant effect on the amounts recognised in the financial statements, apart from those involving estimations described below. The key assumptions concerning the future, and other key sources at reporting date, that have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the next financial year are described in the following notes: • Note 4 – measurement of recoverable amounts relating to goodwill impairment • Note 6 – recognition of deferred tax assets • Note 8 – measurement of recoverable amounts of trade receivables • Note 19.2.2 – measurement of share-based payments • Note 27 – valuation of financial instruments 150 / STARHUB LTD / Annual Report 2012 3 Property, Plant and Equipment Office equipment, Leasehold computers Leasehold improveFreehold Network and furniture Motor Construction building ments property equipment and fittings vehicles in progress Total GROUP $’mil $’mil $’mil $’mil $’mil $’mil $’mil $’mil Cost At 1.1.2011 5.7 60.2 1.7 2,789.2 152.6 6.2 68.0 3,083.6 Additions – 0.2 – 12.5 6.2 0.4 201.2 220.5 Transfers 2.6 3.1 – 154.6 17.4 – (177.7) – Disposals – (3.0) – (116.8) (10.1) (0.5) – (130.4) At 31.12.2011 8.3 60.5 1.7 2,839.5 166.1 6.1 91.5 3,173.7 At 1.1.2012 8.3 60.5 1.7 2,839.5 166.1 6.1 91.5 3,173.7 Additions – 0.1 – 6.2 – 1.3 248.4 256.0 Transfers – 0.8 – 209.3 9.4 – (219.5) – Disposals – (11.1) – (49.9) (16.1) (0.5) – (77.6) At 31.12.2012 8.3 50.3 1.7 3,005.1 159.4 6.9 120.4 3,352.1 Accumulated depreciation At 1.1.2011 0.6 38.9 – 2,142.9 121.8 3.4 – 2,307.6 Charge for the year 0.3 7.4 – 205.3 16.4 0.9 – 230.3 Transfers – (0.4) – 0.4 – – – – Disposals – (2.9) – (112.6) (10.1) (0.5) – (126.1) At 31.12.2011 0.9 43.0 – 2,236.0 128.1 3.8 – 2,411.8 At 1.1.2012 0.9 43.0 – 2,236.0 128.1 3.8 – 2,411.8 Charge for the year 0.3 7.3 – 201.7 16.1 1.0 – 226.4 Disposals – (11.1) – (49.5) (16.1) (0.5) – (77.2) At 31.12.2012 1.2 39.2 – 2,388.2 128.1 4.3 – 2,561.0 Carrying amount At 31.12.2011 7.4 17.5 1.7 603.5 38.0 2.3 91.5 761.9 At 31.12.2012 7.1 11.1 1.7 616.9 31.3 2.6 120.4 791.1 2012 2011 $’mil $’mil Staff costs capitalised in construction in progress during the year 3.6 4.1 Annual Report 2012 / STARHUB LTD / 151 Notes to the Financial Statements Year ended 31 December 2012 3 Property, Plant and Equipment (continued) Office equipment, Leasehold computers Leasehold improveNetwork and furniture Motor Construction building ments equipment and fittings vehicles in progress Total COMPANY $’mil $’mil $’mil $’mil $’mil $’mil $’mil Cost At 1.1.2011 5.7 49.3 935.2 124.4 1.8 32.6 1,149.0 Additions – – – 0.2 0.1 92.3 92.6 Transfers 2.6 1.4 50.3 8.7 – (63.0) – Disposals – (2.4) (19.7) (5.0) (0.3) – (27.4) At 31.12.2011 8.3 48.3 965.8 128.3 1.6 61.9 1,214.2 At 1.1.2012 8.3 48.3 965.8 128.3 1.6 61.9 1,214.2 Additions – – – – 0.4 100.9 101.3 Transfers – 0.7 98.3 6.8 – (105.8) – Disposals – (6.3) (4.2) (15.9) (0.1) – (26.5) At 31.12.2012 8.3 42.7 1,059.9 119.2 1.9 57.0 1,289.0 Accumulated depreciation At 1.1.2011 0.6 30.0 693.7 95.1 0.8 – 820.2 Charge for the year 0.3 6.5 54.7 14.4 0.3 – 76.2 Transfers – (0.4) 0.4 – – – – Disposals – (2.2) (19.6) (5.0) (0.3) – (27.1) At 31.12.2011 0.9 33.9 729.2 104.5 0.8 – 869.3 At 1.1.2012 0.9 33.9 729.2 104.5 0.8 – 869.3 Charge for the year 0.3 6.4 58.8 12.4 0.3 – 78.2 Disposals – (6.3) (3.9) (15.9) (0.1) – (26.2) At 31.12.2012 1.2 34.0 784.1 101.0 1.0 – 921.3 Carrying amount At 31.12.2011 7.4 14.4 236.6 23.8 0.8 61.9 344.9 At 31.12.2012 7.1 8.7 275.8 18.2 0.9 57.0 367.7 152 / STARHUB LTD / Annual Report 2012 4 Intangible Assets Telecommunications Software in licences Software development Goodwill Total GROUP $’mil $’mil $’mil $’mil $’mil Cost At 1.1.2011 116.8 388.7 7.2 220.3 733.0 Additions – 5.0 18.0 – 23.0 Transfers – 16.4 (16.4) – – Disposals – (3.3) – – (3.3) At 31.12.2011 116.8 406.8 8.8 220.3 752.7 At 1.1.2012 116.8 406.8 8.8 220.3 752.7 Additions – 0.2 21.9 – 22.1 Transfers – 21.5 (21.5) – – Disposals – (6.0) (0.2) – (6.2) At 31.12.2012 116.8 422.5 9.0 220.3 768.6 Accumulated amortisation At 1.1.2011 46.1 235.3 – – 281.4 Charge for the year 6.5 44.5 – – 51.0 Disposals – (3.3) – – (3.3) At 31.12.2011 52.6 276.5 – – 329.1 At 1.1.2012 52.6 276.5 – – 329.1 Charge for the year 6.5 41.3 – – 47.8 Disposals – (5.3) – – (5.3) At 31.12.2012 59.1 312.5 – – 371.6 Carrying amount At 31.12.2011 64.2 130.3 8.8 220.3 423.6 At 31.12.2012 57.7 110.0 9.0 220.3 397.0 Impairment tests for goodwill The carrying value of the Group’s goodwill is assessed for impairment annually or more frequently if there are indications that the goodwill might be impaired. For the purposes of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to the cash generating unit comprising the Group’s integrated fixed, mobile, cable and broadband operations. This represents the lowest level within the Group at which goodwill is monitored for impairment for internal management purposes. The recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit (“CGU”) is determined based on value-in-use calculations. The key assumptions for the value-in-use calculations are the discount rates, growth rates and expected changes to profit margins. The value-in-use calculations apply a discounted cash flow model using cash flow projections from the most recent financial budget and forecasts approved by management covering 4 years. The forecast cash flows were extrapolated using an estimated growth rate of 5.3% (2011: 5.0%). The pre-tax discount rate applied is assumed at 6.3% (2011: 6.4%) for the valuein-use calculation. No impairment charge was required for the carrying amount of goodwill assessed as at 31 December 2012 and 31 December 2011 as the recoverable value was in excess of the carrying value. Any reasonably possible change to the key assumptions applied was not likely to cause the recoverable values to be below the carrying values. Annual Report 2012 / STARHUB LTD / 153 Notes to the Financial Statements Year ended 31 December 2012 4 Intangible Assets (continued) Telecommunications Software in licences Software development Total COMPANY $’mil $’mil $’mil $’mil Cost At 1.1.2011 1.0 344.9 5.5 351.4 Additions – 0.1 14.0 14.1 Transfers – 12.6 (12.6) – At 31.12.2011 1.0 357.6 6.9 365.5 At 1.1.2012 1.0 357.6 6.9 365.5 Additions – – 17.5 17.5 Transfers – 17.4 (17.4) – Disposals – (6.1) – (6.1) At 31.12.2012 1.0 368.9 7.0 376.9 Accumulated amortisation At 1.1.2011 0.5 196.2 – 196.7 Charge for the year 0.1 41.8 – 41.9 At 1.1.2011 0.6 238.0 – 238.6 At 1.1.2012 0.6 238.0 – 238.6 Charge for the year 0.1 37.6 – 37.7 Disposals – (5.3) – (5.3) At 31.12.2012 0.7 270.3 – 271.0 Carrying amount At 31.12.2011 0.4 119.6 6.9 126.9 At 31.12.2012 0.3 98.6 7.0 105.9 GROUP AND COMPANY 2012 2011 $’mil $’mil Staff costs capitalised in software in development during the year 2.9 1.9 154 / STARHUB LTD / Annual Report 2012 5 Subsidiaries 2012 2011 COMPANY $’mil $’mil Investments in subsidiaries, at cost 1,209.1 1,209.1 Discount implicit in the interest-free loan to a subsidiary 21.9 21.9 1,231.0 1,231.0 Allowance for impairment losses (28.9) (28.9) 1,202.1 1,202.1 The subsidiaries directly held by the Company are as follows: Country of incorporation/ Effective equity interest Name of company Principal activities business held by the Group 2012 2011 % % StarHub Cable Vision Ltd. (1) Provision of subscription television and Singapore 100 100 television broadcasting services StarHub Mobile Pte Ltd (1) Provision of mobile telecommunications Singapore 100 100 services StarHub Internet Pte Ltd (1) Provision and operation of internet Singapore 100 100 services StarHub Online Pte Ltd (1) Provision of broadband access Singapore 100 100 services Nucleus Connect Pte. Ltd. (1) Provision of high speed wholesale Singapore 100 100 broadband services SHINE Systems Assets Pte. Ltd. (1) Investment in, ownership or lease Singapore 100 100 of infrastructure assets for use by StarHub Group or its partners StarHub (Mauritius) Ltd (2) Investment holding company and for Mauritius 100 100 acquisition of info-communication and infotainment services StarHub (Hong Kong) Limited (3) Provision of telecommunication Hong Kong 100 100 services StarHub Shop Pte Ltd (4) Dormant Singapore 100 100 StarHub, Inc. (4) Dormant United States 100 100 Other subsidiary indirectly held by the Company is as follows: Country of incorporation/ Effective equity interest Name of company Principal activities business held by the Group 2012 2011 % % Foosti Pte. Ltd. (4) (5) Dormant Singapore 100 100 (1) Audited by KPMG LLP Singapore (2) Audited by KPMG Mauritius, a member firm of KPMG International (3) Audited by another firm (4) Not required to be audited by laws of the country of incorporation (5) The company is currently in liquidation pursuant to a winding-up order by the High Court of Singapore issued on 14 January 2011. Annual Report 2012 / STARHUB LTD / 155 Notes to the Financial Statements Year ended 31 December 2012 6 Deferred Taxes Movements in deferred tax assets and liabilities during the year are as follows: Recognised Recognised in other Recognised At in income comprehensive in equity At GROUP 1.1.2012 statement income statement 31.12.2012 2012 $’mil $’mil $’mil $’mil $’mil Deferred tax assets Property, plant and equipment and intangible assets (4.5) (3.4) – – (7.9) Deferred income 7.0 3.4 – – 10.4 Other payables and accruals 0.1 (0.1) – – – Tax losses carried forward 0.2 (0.2) – – – Total 2.8 (0.3) – – 2.5 Deferred tax liabilities Property, plant and equipment and intangible assets (116.0) (5.6) – – (121.6) Other payables and accruals 3.2 (1.1) 0.1 0.2 2.4 Total (112.8) (6.7) 0.1 0.2 (119.2) Recognised Recognised in other Recognised At in income comprehensive in equity At GROUP 1.1.2011 statement income statement 31.12.2011 2011 $’mil $’mil $’mil $’mil $’mil Deferred tax assets Property, plant and equipment and intangible assets (4.8) 0.3 – – (4.5) Deferred income 9.2 (2.2) – – 7.0 Other payables and accruals 0.1 – – – 0.1 Tax losses carried forward – 0.2 – – 0.2 Total 4.5 (1.7) – – 2.8 Deferred tax liabilities Property, plant and equipment and intangible assets (111.0) (5.0) – – (116.0) Other payables and accruals 2.9 – (0.2) 0.5 3.2 Total (108.1) (5.0) (0.2) 0.5 (112.8) Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that realisation of the related tax benefits through future taxable profits is probable. Deferred tax assets have not been recognised in respect of the following items: 2012 2011 $’mil $’mil Tax losses 55.4 63.6 Deferred tax assets 9.4 10.8 The Group has not recognised deferred tax assets in respect of the above tax losses as the Group does not expect to recover these potential deferred tax assets in the foreseeable future. The Group reassesses the recovery of these potential deferred tax assets annually. 156 / STARHUB LTD / Annual Report 2012 6 Deferred Taxes (continued) Recognised Recognised in other Recognised At in income comprehensive in equity At COMPANY 1.1.2012 statement income statement 31.12.2012 2012 $’mil $’mil $’mil $’mil $’mil Deferred tax liabilities Property, plant and equipment and intangible assets (73.0) (1.9) – – (74.9) Other payables and accruals 3.2 (1.0) 0.1 0.2 2.5 Total (69.8) (2.9) 0.1 0.2 (72.4) Recognised Recognised in other Recognised At in income comprehensive in equity At COMPANY 1.1.2011 statement income statement 31.12.2011 2011 $’mil $’mil $’mil $’mil $’mil Deferred tax liabilities Property, plant and equipment and intangible assets (74.3) 1.3 – – (73.0) Other payables and accruals 2.9 – (0.2) 0.5 3.2 Total (71.4) 1.3 (0.2) 0.5 (69.8) 7 Inventories GROUP COMPANY 2012 2011 2012 2011 $’mil $’mil $’mil $’mil Inventories, at lower of cost and net realisable value 28.1 37.2 21.2 29.0 Allowance made during the year 2.1 2.1 1.6 2.1 Annual Report 2012 / STARHUB LTD / 157 Notes to the Financial Statements Year ended 31 December 2012 8 Trade Receivables GROUP COMPANY 2012 2011 2012 2011 $’mil $’mil $’mil $’mil Trade receivables 171.7 184.2 159.7 171.8 Allowance for doubtful receivables (29.4) (32.2) (28.8) (31.9) 142.3 152.0 130.9 139.9 The trade receivables of the Company include amounts billed under a combined billing arrangement to customers for services provided by certain subsidiaries. The Group’s and the Company’s primary credit risk exposure arises through its trade receivables, which include corporate and retail customers. There is no concentration of credit risk with respect to trade receivables as the Group and the Company have a large number of customers. The recorded allowances for doubtful receivables have been made based on the Group and the Company’s historical collections experience. Due to these factors, management believes that no additional credit risk beyond the amounts provided for collection losses is inherent in the Group and the Company’s trade receivables. The age analysis of trade receivables past due but not impaired at the reporting date is as follows: GROUP COMPANY 2012 2011 2012 2011 $’mil $’mil $’mil $’mil Past due 0 – 30 days 66.4 46.7 63.7 41.9 Past due above 30 days 5.7 18.3 0.5 14.7 72.1 65.0 64.2 56.6 The movements in allowance for doubtful receivables in respect of trade receivables during the year are as follows: GROUP COMPANY 2012 2011 2012 2011 $’mil $’mil $’mil $’mil At beginning of year 32.2 38.5 31.9 38.2 Allowance for doubtful receivables 14.8 14.7 0.7 3.1 Recharged to subsidiaries – – 13.8 8.3 Allowance utilised (17.6) (21.0) (17.6) (17.7) At end of year 29.4 32.2 28.8 31.9 9 Other Receivables, Deposits and Prepayments GROUP COMPANY 2012 2011 2012 2011 $’mil $’mil $’mil $’mil Grant receivables – 43.8 – – Accrued revenue 45.6 27.2 2.5 3.0 Deposits 4.9 5.4 1.3 1.5 Prepayments 72.5 72.2 15.5 17.1 Other receivables 0.6 0.6 1.1 0.4 123.6 149.2 20.4 22.0 158 / STARHUB LTD / Annual Report 2012 10 Balances with Related Parties The immediate and ultimate holding companies are Asia Mobile Holdings Pte. Ltd. and Temasek Holdings (Private) Limited respectively. These companies are incorporated in the Republic of Singapore. 10.1 Amounts due from related parties GROUP COMPANY 2012 2011 2012 2011 $’mil $’mil $’mil $’mil Current Loans to subsidiaries – – – 600.0 Amounts due from (trade): – Ultimate holding company 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.1 – Subsidiaries – – 38.9 49.6 – Related corporations 11.9 17.1 9.2 11.9 12.0 17.2 48.2 661.6 Non-current Loans to subsidiaries – – 600.0 – The loans to the subsidiaries are unsecured, repayable on demand and bore interest at 2.69% (2011: 2.69%) per annum. At 31 December 2012, as these loans are not expected to be repayable within the next 12 months, they are reclassified as non-current. 10.2 Amounts due to related parties GROUP COMPANY 2012 2011 2012 2011 $’mil $’mil $’mil $’mil Amounts due to (trade): – Subsidiaries – – 274.6 263.3 – Related corporations 56.5 41.9 46.9 32.7 56.5 41.9 321.5 296.0 The amounts due to subsidiaries include interest bearing amounts of $160.9 million (2011: $159.8 million) at interest rates ranging from 0.80% to 1.10% (2011: 0.57% to 0.88%) per annum. 11 Cash and Cash Equivalents GROUP COMPANY 2012 2011 2012 2011 $’mil $’mil $’mil $’mil Fixed deposits 225.8 141.7 195.9 136.7 Cash at bank and in hand 86.2 37.5 49.8 17.6 312.0 179.2 245.7 154.3 Annual Report 2012 / STARHUB LTD / 159 Notes to the Financial Statements Year ended 31 December 2012 12 Trade and Other Payables GROUP COMPANY 2012 2011 2012 2011 Note $’mil $’mil $’mil $’mil Current Trade payables 59.4 80.5 54.2 72.7 Accruals 410.7 367.6 212.8 216.2 Unearned revenue 164.4 168.8 31.0 28.2 Property, plant and equipment vendors 59.4 54.0 33.6 26.0 Deferred income 14 21.2 21.6 – – Deposits from customers 12.4 9.3 12.3 9.2 Mark-to-market financial instruments – Interest rate swaps 0.4 1.1 0.4 1.1 – Forward exchange contracts 0.2 – 0.2 – 728.1 702.9 344.5 353.4 Non-current Unearned revenue 29.0 27.2 29.0 27.2 Mark-to-market financial instruments – Interest rate swaps 8.5 6.9 8.5 6.9 37.5 34.1 37.5 34.1 13 Borrowings GROUP AND COMPANY 2012 2011 Note $’mil $’mil Bank loans 13.1 467.5 662.5 Medium term note 13.2 220.0 – 687.5 662.5 13.1 Bank loans GROUP AND COMPANY 2012 2011 $’mil $’mil Current – 75.0 Non-current 467.5 587.5 467.5 662.5 Repayable: – Within 1 year – 75.0 – After 1 year but within 5 years 347.5 537.5 – After 5 years but within 10 years 120.0 50.0 467.5 662.5 At 31 December 2012, the unsecured bank loans bore interest at rates ranging from 1.02% to 2.56 % (2011: 0.30% to 2.56%) per annum. 160 / STARHUB LTD / Annual Report 2012 13.2 Medium term note GROUP AND COMPANY 2012 2011 $’mil $’mil Non-current 220.0 – The Company has established a multicurrency medium term note programme with a maximum aggregate principal amount of $1,000,000,000 in September 2011. In September 2012, the Company issued a $220,000,000 10 years medium term note which bore an interest rate of 3.08% per annum and is payable in September 2022. There is no material difference between the carrying amount and fair value of the medium term note. 14 Deferred Income GROUP COMPANY 2012 2011 2012 2011 Note $’mil $’mil $’mil $’mil Deferred grants At beginning of year 84.4 60.6 – – Grants received – 40.0 – – Amount accreted to the income statement (21.5) (16.2) – – At end of year 62.9 84.4 – – Deferred grants to be accreted: Current (within 1 year) 12 21.2 21.6 – – Non-current (after 1 year but within 5 years) 41.7 62.8 – – Total 62.9 84.4 – – The deferred income are government grants received. The assets related grants are recognised over the estimated useful lives of the related assets. The income related grants are recognised on a systematic basis over the periods to match the related cost. 15 Share Capital 2012 2011 Number Number of shares of shares COMPANY ’mil $’mil ’mil $’mil Issued and fully paid ordinary shares: At beginning of year 1,717.3 262.8 1,716.0 260.3 Issue of ordinary shares – – 0.7 1.7 Issue of ordinary shares for cash pursuant to the exercise of options under the StarHub Share Option Plans 0.2 0.3 0.6 0.8 At end of year 1,717.5 263.1 1,717.3 262.8 The holders of ordinary shares (excluding treasury shares) are entitled to receive dividends as declared from time to time and are entitled to one vote per share at meetings of the Company. All ordinary shares (excluding treasury shares) rank equally with regard to the Company’s residual assets. As at 31 December 2012, included in the total number of ordinary shares was 72,788 shares (2011: 1,975,987 shares) held by the Company as treasury shares. The treasury shares were included as a deduction from equity (note 17). Annual Report 2012 / STARHUB LTD / 161 Notes to the Financial Statements Year ended 31 December 2012 16 Dividends COMPANY 2012 2011 $’mil $’mil Final dividend of $0.05 (2011: $0.05) per share (1-tier tax exempt) paid in respect of the previous financial year 85.8 85.8 Interim dividends of $0.15 (2011: $0.15) per share (1-tier tax exempt) paid in respect of the current financial year 257.6 257.5 343.4 343.3 17 Reserves GROUP COMPANY 2012 2011 2012 2011 $’mil $’mil $’mil $’mil Treasury shares (0.2) (5.5) (0.2) (5.5) Merger/Capital reserve – – 276.5 276.5 Goodwill written off (276.3) (276.3) – – Share-based payments reserve 13.7 13.9 13.7 13.9 Hedging reserve (7.0) (6.6) (7.0) (6.6) Retained profits 50.2 34.3 681.2 668.1 (219.6) (240.2) 964.2 946.4 Treasury shares comprise the cost of the Company’s shares held by the Group. The merger/capital reserve comprises reserve arising from the acquisition of a subsidiary, StarHub Cable Vision Ltd. (“SCV”), on 2 July 2002 and the excess of the fair value of the Company’s shares issued as consideration for the acquisition of SCV over its par value. The goodwill written off represents the excess of consideration paid on the acquisition of subsidiaries prior to 1 January 2001 over the Group’s share of the fair value of net assets acquired. The share-based payments reserve comprises the cumulative value of services received from employees and directors recorded in respect of the grant of share options and share awards. The hedging reserve comprises the effective portion of the cumulative net change in the fair value of cash flow hedging instruments related to hedged transactions. 18 Operating Revenue GROUP COMPANY 2012 2011 2012 2011 $’mil $’mil $’mil $’mil Mobile revenue 1,224.2 1,217.6 – – Pay TV revenue 396.3 376.0 – – Broadband revenue 249.4 241.7 – – Fixed network services revenue 357.7 336.7 711.2 697.8 Sale of equipment 194.0 140.0 474.0 410.6 2,421.6 2,312.0 1,185.2 1,108.4 162 / STARHUB LTD / Annual Report 2012 19 Operating Expenses GROUP COMPANY 2012 2011 2012 2011 $’mil $’mil $’mil $’mil Cost of equipment sold 440.7 383.4 439.1 382.2 Cost of services 339.7 298.3 47.0 35.8 Traffic expenses 230.5 246.8 94.2 95.7 Depreciation and amortisation (net of asset grants) 272.5 277.8 115.9 118.1 Marketing and promotions 147.4 169.6 10.8 13.7 Staff costs 265.9 266.9 194.4 194.5 Allowance for doubtful receivables 14.8 14.7 0.7 3.1 Repairs and maintenance 63.2 68.0 28.1 34.5 Operating leases 131.3 135.5 67.3 68.7 Other expenses 95.0 74.2 83.1 72.5 2,001.0 1,935.2 1,080.6 1,018.8 19.1 Depreciation and amortisation (net of asset grants) Depreciation and amortisation expenses comprise the following: GROUP COMPANY 2012 2011 2012 2011 $’mil $’mil $’mil $’mil Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 226.4 230.3 78.2 76.2 Accretion of asset grants to the income statement (1.7) (3.5) – – 224.7 226.8 78.2 76.2 Amortisation of intangible assets 47.8 51.0 37.7 41.9 Total 272.5 277.8 115.9 118.1 19.2 Staff costs The following are included in staff costs: GROUP COMPANY 2012 2011 2012 2011 $’mil $’mil $’mil $’mil Defined contribution plans 24.9 21.9 17.4 14.7 Share-based payments 6.4 2.4 6.4 2.4 Annual Report 2012 / STARHUB LTD / 163 Notes to the Financial Statements Year ended 31 December 2012 19 Operating Expenses (continued) 19.2.1 Key management personnel compensation The key management personnel compensation is as follows: GROUP COMPANY 2012 2011 2012 2011 $’mil $’mil $’mil $’mil Short-term employee benefits 12.1 11.3 11.1 10.2 Share-based payments 3.8 2.8 3.5 2.7 15.9 14.1 14.6 12.9 Included in the above is the total compensation to directors of the Company which amounted to $5.2 million (2011: $4.9 million). Key management personnel also participate in the StarHub Share Option Plans, the StarHub Performance Share Plan and the StarHub Restricted Stock Plan as detailed in Note 19.2.2. The short term benefits include the Company balanced scorecard incentive programme to reward employees for achieving or exceeding performance target. Conditional awards of 964,000 shares (2011: 961,400 shares) under the StarHub Performance Share Plan and conditional awards of 662,000 shares (2011: 662,000 shares) under the StarHub Restricted Stock Plan were granted to the key management personnel of the Company during the year. Based on the actual level of achievement of the pre-determined performance targets over the 2009 to 2011 performance period, there were 642,000 shares delivered to the key management personnel of the Company during the year under the 2009 conditional awards granted to key management personnel of the Company in May 2009 pursuant to the StarHub Performance Share Plan. Based on the actual level of achievement of the pre-determined performance targets over the 2010 to 2011 performance period, final awards comprising 392,000 shares were awarded to the key management personnel of the Company during the year under the 2010 conditional awards granted to the key management personnel of the Company in May 2010 pursuant to the StarHub Restricted Stock Plan. 130,500 shares under the final awards were delivered during the year, with the balance of 261,500 shares to be delivered in phases according to the stipulated vesting periods. All share options and conditional share awards (except for the time-based restricted share awards) granted to the key management personnel of the Company were on the same terms and conditions as those offered to other employees of the Company. As at 31 December 2012, 68,000 (2011: 118,000) of the share options under the StarHub Share Option Plans, 2,442,650 (2011: 1,955,150) of the conditional awards of shares under the StarHub Performance Share Plan, and 1,586,720 (2011: 1,433,494) of the conditional awards of shares granted to the key management personnel were outstanding. 19.2.2 Share-based Payments The StarHub Share Option Plan 2004, the StarHub Performance Share Plan and the StarHub Restricted Stock Plan (collectively referred to as the “Plans”) were approved and adopted by its members at an Extraordinary General Meeting of the Company held on 16 August 2004. The Plans and the StarHub Pte Ltd Share Option Plan 2000 (“StarHub Share Option Plan 2000”) are administered by the Company’s ERCC. The Company designates Singapore Technologies Telemedia Pte Ltd as its parent company for purposes of the Plans. The StarHub Share Option Plan 2000 was terminated in 2004, while the StarHub Share Option Plan 2004 has been suspended since 2006. Hence, no option has been granted since 2006. The existing options granted were vested according to the terms of the StarHub Share Option Plan 2000, or as applicable, the StarHub Share Option Plan 2004 and the respective grants. 164 / STARHUB LTD / Annual Report 2012 19 Operating Expenses (continued) 19.2.2 Share-based Payments (continued) Other information regarding the Plans and the StarHub Share Option Plan 2000 is set out below: (a) Options granted under the StarHub Share Option Plan 2004 and the StarHub Share Option Plan 2000 (collectively, the “StarHub Share Option Plans”) (i) Under the StarHub Share Option Plan 2004, the exercise price for each ordinary share in respect of which an option is exercisable shall be determined by the ERCC in its absolute discretion on the date of grant to be either: (1) a price which is equal to the volume-weighted average price for the Company’s shares on the Singapore Exchange Securities Trading Limited (”SGX”) over the three consecutive trading days immediately preceding the date of grant of that option (“Market Price”), or such higher price as may be determined by the ERCC in its absolute discretion; or (2) a price which is set, at the absolute discretion of the ERCC, at a discount to the Market Price so long as the maximum discount for any option shall not exceed 20% of the Market Price in respect of that option. (ii) Under the StarHub Share Option Plan 2000, the exercise price for each ordinary share in respect of which an option is exercisable was determined by the ERCC in its absolute discretion on the date of grant. (b) StarHub Performance Share Plan and StarHub Restricted Stock Plan (i) The StarHub Performance Share Plan and the StarHub Restricted Stock Plan were implemented with the objectives of motivating key executives to strive for superior performance and sustaining long-term growth for the Group. (ii) Under the StarHub Performance Share Plan, conditional awards of shares are granted. Awards represent the right of a participant to receive fully paid shares, their equivalent cash value or combinations thereof, free of charge, upon the participant achieving prescribed performance targets set based on medium-term corporate objectives. Awards are released once the ERCC is satisfied that the prescribed performance targets have been achieved. There are no vesting periods beyond the performance achievement periods. (iii) Under the StarHub Restricted Stock Plan, awards granted vest only after the satisfactory completion of time-based service conditions (time-based restricted awards) or where the award is performance-related after a further period of service beyond the performance targets completion date (performance-based restricted awards). (iv) During the financial year ended 31 December 2012, the conditional grants of 964,000 (2011: 961,400) shares under the StarHub Performance Share Plan and the conditional grants of 2,009,000 (2011: 2,040,000) shares under the StarHub Restricted Stock Plan were made to the directors of the Company and key employees of the Group. These represent the number of shares to be delivered when performance targets at “on-target” level are achieved, or as the case may be, when the time-based service conditions are completed. (v) During the financial year ended 31 December 2012, 155,900 shares under the StarHub Restricted Stock Plan were vested and delivered to certain non-executive directors of the Company as part of their non-executive directors’ remuneration, without any performance or vesting conditions attached. Annual Report 2012 / STARHUB LTD / 165 Notes to the Financial Statements Year ended 31 December 2012 19 Operating Expenses (continued) 19.2.2 Share-based Payments (continued) StarHub Share Option Plan Share options outstanding under the StarHub Share Option Plans are as follows: Weighted average Number of exercise price share options per share 2012 2011 2012 2011 COMPANY ’000 ’000 $ $ Outstanding at beginning of year 2,731 4,011 1.24 1.25 Exercised (941) (1,190) 1.19 1.28 Forfeited (219) (90) 1.05 1.31 Outstanding at end of year 1,571 2,731 1.30 1.24 Exercisable at end of year 1,571 2,731 1.30 1.24 Options were exercised throughout the year. The weighted average share price during the year was $3.35 per share (2011: $2.76 per share). The outstanding share options have the following exercise prices: 2012 2011 COMPANY ’000 ’000 Exercise price range: $1.50 to $1.52 962 1,441 $0.68 to $0.99 609 1,290 1,571 2,731 Weighted average remaining contractual life 2.03 years 2.80 years The share options have a maximum validity period of 10 years from the date of grant and vesting periods according to the terms and conditions of the StarHub Share Option Plans and respective grants. The share options granted have a vesting period up to 3 years. The fair values of services received in return for share options granted are measured by reference to the fair value of share options granted. The estimate of the fair value of the services received is measured based on a Binomial model. No options were granted for the years ended 31 December 2012 and 31 December 2011. 166 / STARHUB LTD / Annual Report 2012 19 Operating Expenses (continued) 19.2.2 Share-based Payments (continued) StarHub Performance Share Plan The movements of the number of shares under the StarHub Performance Share Plan, the fair values of the grant at measurement date and the assumptions of the fair value model for the grants of the Company are as follows: Balance Number of Number of Number of Balance outstanding performance performance performance outstanding 2012 at 1.1.2012 shares granted shares vested shares forfeited at 31.12.2012 Date of grant ‘000 ‘000 ‘000 ‘000 ‘000 29 May 2009 321 – (321) – – 17 May 2010 673 – – – 673 31 March 2011 961 – – (103) 858 25 May 2012 – 964 – (52) 912 Total 1,955 964 (321) (155) 2,443 Balance Number of Number of Number of Balance outstanding performance performance performance outstanding 2011 at 1.1.2011 shares granted shares vested shares forfeited at 31.12.2011 Date of grant ‘000 ‘000 ‘000 ‘000 ‘000 9 May 2008 250 – (144) (106) – 29 May 2009 321 – – – 321 17 May 2010 673 – – – 673 31 March 2011 – 961 – – 961 Total 1,244 961 (144) (106) 1,955 The fair value of the shares is estimated using a Monte-Carlo simulation methodology at the measurement dates, which are grant dates of the share awards. The accrual for the share expense under the StarHub Performance Share Plan has been estimated on the basis that the Group will be on target in respect of the performance conditions. The assumptions under the model used for the grant in 2012 and 2011 are as follows: Year of grant 2012 2011 Fair value $3.24 $2.17 Share price $3.21 $2.70 Expected volatility of the Company’s shares 15.41% 22.09% Expected volatility of MSCI Asia-Pacific Telecommunications Component Stock 7.24% 19.02% Expected dividend yield 5.52% 6.39% Risk-free interest rates 0.32% 0.50% Annual Report 2012 / STARHUB LTD / 167 Notes to the Financial Statements Year ended 31 December 2012 19 Operating Expenses (continued) 19.2.2 Share-based Payments (continued) StarHub Restricted Stock Plan The movements of the number of shares under the StarHub Restricted Stock Plan, the fair values of the grant at measurement date and the assumptions of the fair value model for the grants of the Company are as follows: Balance Number of Number of Number of Balance outstanding restricted restricted restricted outstanding 2012 at 1.1.2012 shares granted shares vested shares forfeited at 31.12.2012 Date of grant ‘000 ‘000 ‘000 ‘000 ‘000 9 May 2008 204 – (198) (6) – 15 January 2009 33 – (33) – – 29 May 2009 862 – (435) (33) 394 17 May 2010 2,081 – (543) (502) 1,036 31 March 2011 1,982 – – (150) 1,832 7 June 2012 – 156 (133) (23) – 25 May 2012 – 2,009 – (56) 1,953 Total 5,162 2,165 (1,342) (770) 5,215 Balance Number of Number of Number of Balance outstanding restricted restricted restricted outstanding 2011 at 1.1.2011 shares granted shares vested shares forfeited at 31.12.2011 Date of grant ‘000 ‘000 ‘000 ‘000 ‘000 18 April 2007 298 – (287) (11) – 21 May 2007 46 – (46) – – 9 May 2008 457 – (228) (25) 204 15 January 2009 67 – (34) – 33 29 May 2009 1,616 – (461) (293) 862 17 May 2010 2,398 – (182) (135) 2,081 31 March 2011 – 2,040 – (58) 1,982 Total 4,882 2,040 (1,238) (522) 5,162 Except as disclosed below, the fair value of the share awards is estimated using a Monte-Carlo simulation methodology at the measurement dates, which are grant dates of the share awards. The accrual for the share expense under the StarHub Restricted Stock Plan has been estimated on the basis that the Group will be on target in respect of the performance conditions. The fair value of the share awards on 15 January 2009 of 100,000 shares is estimated at grant date after discounting for expected dividend yield. It is solely time-based with no performance conditions tied to this grant. The fair value of the time-based share awards granted on 17 May 2010 of 213,000 shares is estimated using a Monte-Carlo simulation methodology at the measurement date, which is grant date of the share award. It is solely time-based with no performance conditions tied to this grant. The share awards granted on 7 June 2012 of 155,900 are outright shares with no performance conditions and vesting period. The number of shares awarded were based on the volume weighted average price of an ordinary share of the Company listed on the Main Board of Singapore Exchange Securities Trading Limited over the 14 trading days immediately after the Fourteenth Annual General Meeting in 2012. 168 / STARHUB LTD / Annual Report 2012 19 Operating Expenses (continued) 19.2.2 Share-based Payments (continued) StarHub Restricted Stock Plan (continued) The assumptions under the model used for the grant in 2012 and 2011 are as follows: Year of grant 2012 2011 Fair value $2.83 $2.56 Share price $3.21 $2.70 Expected volatility of the Company’s shares 15.41% 22.09% Expected dividend yield 5.52% 6.39% Risk-free interest rates 0.24% 0.32% 0.43% 0.49% 19.3 Other expenses Included in other expenses are the following: GROUP COMPANY 2012 2011 2012 2011 $’mil $’mil $’mil $’mil Fees paid to auditors of the Company: – Audit 0.4 0.3 0.1 0.1 – Non-audit 0.2 0.3 0.1 0.1 Exchange gain (4.9) (8.1) (1.8) (7.5) Changes in fair value of financial instruments 0.6 (2.0) 0.6 (1.7) Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets 0.4 3.8 0.9 0.3 20 Other Income GROUP COMPANY 2012 2011 2012 2011 $’mil $’mil $’mil $’mil Corporate recharges to subsidiaries – – 205.9 190.9 Dividend income from subsidiaries – – 90.0 100.0 Income related grants 26.7 21.4 – – 26.7 21.4 295.9 290.9 21 Finance Income and Expense GROUP COMPANY 2012 2011 2012 2011 $’mil $’mil $’mil $’mil Interest income: – Bank deposits 4.1 2.1 3.9 2.1 – Subsidiaries – – 16.2 15.5 Finance income 4.1 2.1 20.1 17.6 Interest expense: – Bank loans 18.0 20.5 18.0 20.5 – Medium term note 2.0 – 2.0 – – Subsidiaries – – 1.4 0.1 Finance expense 20.0 20.5 21.4 20.6 Annual Report 2012 / STARHUB LTD / 169 Notes to the Financial Statements Year ended 31 December 2012 22 Taxation GROUP COMPANY 2012 2011 2012 2011 $’mil $’mil $’mil $’mil Current tax Current income tax 81.0 66.9 52.0 55.7 Utilisation of previously unrecognised deferred tax assets (10.5) (8.6) (11.6) (18.0) Over provision in prior year (5.4) (0.7) (0.6) (7.2) 65.1 57.6 39.8 30.5 Deferred tax Origination and reversal of temporary differences 1.9 7.8 2.3 (8.5) Over/ (under) provision of tax assets in prior year 5.1 (1.1) 0.6 7.2 7.0 6.7 2.9 (1.3) Total income tax in income statement 72.1 64.3 42.7 29.2 A reconciliation between tax expense and the product of accounting profit multiplied by the applicable corporate tax rate for the years ended 31 December is as follows: GROUP COMPANY 2012 2011 2012 2011 $’mil $’mil $’mil $’mil Profit before taxation 431.4 379.8 399.2 377.5 Income tax using Singapore tax rate of 17% 73.3 64.6 67.8 64.2 Income not subject to tax (0.3) (0.7) (15.3) (17.0) Non-deductible expenses 3.5 2.6 2.2 1.3 Deferred tax assets not recognised 8.8 10.2 – – Utilisation of previously unrecognised deferred tax assets (10.5) (8.6) (11.6) (18.0) Over provision in prior year, net (0.3) (1.8) – – Others (2.4) (2.0) (0.4) (1.3) Total income tax in income statement 72.1 64.3 42.7 29.2 The Company’s utilisation of previously unrecognised deferred tax assets relate to unutilised and unabsorbed capital allowances transferred from its subsidiaries under the group tax relief system in Singapore. Income tax recognised in other comprehensive income for the years ended 31 December are as follows: GROUP COMPANY 2012 2011 2012 2011 $’mil $’mil $’mil $’mil Cash flow hedge, before tax (0.5) 1.3 (0.5) 1.3 Taxation 0.1 (0.2) 0.1 (0.2) Other comprehensive income for the year, net of taxation (0.4) 1.1 (0.4) 1.1 170 / STARHUB LTD / Annual Report 2012 23 Earnings Per Share Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the Group’s profit attributable to equity holders by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the financial year. For the purpose of calculating the diluted earnings per share, the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue is adjusted to take into account the dilutive effect arising from the StarHub share plans. GROUP 2012 2011 $’mil $’mil Profit attributable to equity holders 359.3 315.5 2012 2011 Number of shares (million) Weighted average number of ordinary shares (basic) 1,716.8 1,716.2 Adjustment for dilutive effect of share plans 9.0 8.9 Weighted average number of ordinary shares (diluted) 1,725.8 1,725.1 24 Earnings Before Interest, Tax, Depreciation and Amortisation Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation (“EBITDA”) is a supplementary indicator of performance used by the Group. The measurement of EBITDA is not covered by FRS. The Group defines EBITDA as follows: GROUP 2012 2011 $’mil $’mil Profit before taxation 431.4 379.8 Adjustments for: Depreciation and amortisation (net of asset grants) 272.5 277.8 Finance income (4.1) (2.1) Finance expense 20.0 20.5 EBITDA 719.8 676.0 Annual Report 2012 / STARHUB LTD / 171 Notes to the Financial Statements Year ended 31 December 2012 25 Related Party Transactions The Company has entered into contractual agreements on behalf of its subsidiaries, and recharges its subsidiaries based on terms agreed between the parties involved. In the normal course of business, the Group purchases and sells info-communications services to related companies. The related party transactions are carried out on terms negotiated between the parties which are intended to reflect competitive terms. Other than disclosed above and elsewhere in the financial statements, significant transactions of the Group and the Company with related parties during the financial year were as follows: GROUP COMPANY 2012 2011 2012 2011 $’mil $’mil $’mil $’mil Ultimate holding company Sales 0.6 0.6 0.6 0.5 Subsidiaries Sales – – 656.6 648.9 Purchase of services – – 43.1 32.5 Related corporations Sales 102.6 105.7 33.6 30.2 Purchase of property, plant and equipment 22.1 15.3 18.6 13.7 Rental expenses 81.2 81.6 36.6 39.4 Purchase of services 119.3 124.2 22.7 25.5 Purchase of inventories 178.8 76.4 178.3 75.7 172 / STARHUB LTD / Annual Report 2012 26 Segment Reporting Segment information is presented based on the information reviewed by the chief operating decision maker (“CODM”) for performance assessment and resource allocation. The CODM assesses the Group’s financial performance using performance indicators which include revenue, EBITDA, capital expenditure and cash flow of the Group. The Group operates primarily in Singapore in one segment. The Group delivers its Mobile, Pay TV, Broadband, Fixed networks services and equipment sales on a fully integrated network, customer service, sales, marketing and administration support. The Group has a large and diversified customer base which consists of individuals and corporations. There was no single customer that contributed to 10% or more of the Group’s revenue. The Group’s reportable segment information is as follows: GROUP 2012 2011 $’mil $’mil Mobile 1,224.2 1,217.6 Pay TV 396.3 376.0 Broadband 249.4 241.7 Fixed network services 357.7 336.7 Sale of equipment 194.0 140.0 Operating revenue 2,421.6 2,312.0 EBITDA 719.8 676.0 Depreciation and amortisation (net of asset grants) (272.5) (277.8) Finance income 4.1 2.1 Finance expense (20.0) (20.5) Profit before taxation 431.4 379.8 Taxation (72.1) (64.3) Profit for the year 359.3 315.5 Assets and liabilities Non-current assets 1,190.6 1,188.3 Current assets 618.0 534.8 Total assets 1,808.6 1,723.1 Borrowings 687.5 662.5 Other non-current liabilities 198.4 209.7 Current liabilities 879.2 828.3 Total liabilities 1,765.1 1,700.5 Other information Capital expenditure 278.1 243.5 Free cash flow * 416.8 449.7 * Free cash flow refers to net cash from operating activities less purchase of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets in the consolidated cash flow statement. Annual Report 2012 / STARHUB LTD / 173 Notes to the Financial Statements Year ended 31 December 2012 27 Financial Risk Management Financial risk management objectives and policies Exposure to credit, liquidity, interest rate and currency risk arises in the normal course of the Group’s business. The Group has written risk management policies and guidelines which set out its overall business strategies, its tolerance of risk and its general risk management philosophy, and has established processes to monitor and control the hedging of transactions in a timely and accurate manner. Derivative financial instruments are used to reduce exposure to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates and interest rates. While these are subject to the risk of market rates changing subsequent to acquisition, such changes are generally offset by opposite effects on the items being hedged. The Group’s accounting policy in relation to derivative financial instruments is set out in note 2.23. Credit risk Management has a credit policy in place and the exposure to credit risk is monitored on an ongoing basis. Periodic frequent credit review and counterparty credit limits are practised. The Group has no significant concentration of credit risk from trade receivables due to its large diversified customer base. Credit evaluations are performed on corporate customers requiring credit. Identification documents are obtained from retail customers. Deposits are obtained for certain categories of higher-risk customers. The Group places its cash and cash equivalents and enters into treasury transactions only with creditworthy banks and financial institutions. The maximum credit risk exposure is represented by the carrying value of each financial asset in the statement of financial position. Liquidity risk The Group monitors its liquidity risk and actively manages its operating cash flows, debt maturity profile and availability of funding. The Group maintains sufficient level of cash and cash equivalents, and has available funding through diverse sources of committed and uncommitted credit facilities from banks and the capital market through its medium term note programme. 174 / STARHUB LTD / Annual Report 2012 27 Financial Risk Management (continued) Liquidity risk (continued) The following are the expected contractual undiscounted cash outflows (including interest payments) of financial liabilities: Contractual cash flows After After 1 year but 5 years but Carrying Within within within GROUP amount Total 1 year 5 years 10 years 2012 $’mil $’mil $’mil $’mil $’mil Non-derivative financial liabilities Borrowings 687.5 785.9 9.7 398.7 377.5 Trade and other payables ^ 540.1 540.1 540.1 – – Balances with related parties 56.5 56.5 56.5 – – Derivative financial liabilities Interest rate swaps used for hedging 10.7 10.8 4.3 6.5 – Forward exchange contracts 0.2 0.2 0.2 – – 1,295.0 1,393.5 610.8 405.2 377.5 Contractual cash flows After After 1 year but 5 years but Carrying Within within within GROUP amount Total 1 year 5 years 10 years 2011 $’mil $’mil $’mil $’mil $’mil Non-derivative financial liabilities Borrowings 662.5 700.5 79.7 568.2 52.6 Trade and other payables ^ 507.2 507.2 507.2 – – Balances with related parties 41.9 41.9 41.9 – – Derivative financial liabilities Interest rate swaps used for hedging 12.2 12.2 8.8 3.4 – 1,223.8 1,261.8 637.6 571.6 52.6 Annual Report 2012 / STARHUB LTD / 175 Notes to the Financial Statements Year ended 31 December 2012 27 Financial Risk Management (continued) Liquidity risk (continued) Contractual cash flows After After 1 year but 5 years but Carrying Within within within COMPANY amount Total 1 year 5 years 10 years 2012 $’mil $’mil $’mil $’mil $’mil Non-derivative financial liabilities Borrowings 687.5 785.9 9.7 398.7 377.5 Trade and other payables ^ 311.1 311.1 311.1 – – Balances with related parties 321.5 321.8 321.8 – – Derivative financial liabilities Interest rate swaps used for hedging 10.7 10.8 4.3 6.5 – Forward exchange contracts 0.2 0.2 0.2 – – 1,331.0 1,429.8 647.1 405.2 377.5 Contractual cash flows After After 1 year but 5 years but Carrying Within within within COMPANY amount Total 1 year 5 years 10 years 2011 $’mil $’mil $’mil $’mil $’mil Non-derivative financial liabilities Borrowings 662.5 700.5 79.7 568.2 52.6 Trade and other payables ^ 320.0 320.0 320.0 – – Balances with related parties 296.0 296.2 296.2 – – Derivative financial liabilities Interest rate swaps used for hedging 12.2 12.2 8.8 3.4 – 1,290.7 1,328.9 704.7 571.6 52.6 ^ The carrying amount of trade and other payables disclosed in the table exclude deferred income, unearned revenue, interest accruals for derivative financial liabilities. The latter is included in the derivative financial liabilities. 176 / STARHUB LTD / Annual Report 2012 27 Financial Risk Management (continued) Liquidity risk (continued) The following table indicates the periods in which the cash flow hedges are expected to affect profit or loss: After 1 year but Within within GROUP AND COMPANY 1 year 5 years Total 2012 $’mil $’mil $’mil Interest rate swaps – Liabilities 2.5 6.5 9.0 After 1 year but Within within GROUP AND COMPANY 1 year 5 years Total 2011 $’mil $’mil $’mil Interest rate swaps – Liabilities 4.6 3.4 8.0 Interest rate risk The Group’s exposure to market risk for changes in interest rates relates primarily to the Group’s debt obligations. The Group adopts a policy of ensuring that at least 50 percent of its exposure to changes in interest rates on bank loans is on a fixed rate basis. Interest rate swaps, denominated in Singapore dollars, have been entered into to achieve this purpose. At 31 December 2012, the Group had outstanding interest rate swap agreements with notional principal amounts totalling $335.0 million (2011: $602.5 million) in cash flow hedges against borrowings. These interest rate swaps will mature over the remaining term ranging from 2.1 years to 4.4 years (2011: 4 months to 4.6 years) to match the underlying hedged cash flows arising on the borrowings consisting of semi-annual interest payments. The fixed interest payable are at interest rates ranging from 0.855% to 2.250% per annum (2011: 0.920% to 3.015% per annum). Sensitivity analysis The Group’s and the Company’s borrowings are denominated in Singapore dollars. An increase/decrease in the interest rates by 100 basis points with all other variables remaining constant, will result in the Group’s and the Company’s profit before taxation to be lower/higher by $1.3 million (2011: $0.1 million). Foreign currency risk The Group incurs foreign exchange risk on sales and purchases that are denominated in currencies other than Singapore Dollar. The currency giving rise to this risk is primarily the United States Dollar. For operations with significant expenditure denominated in foreign currencies, forward exchange contracts are entered into to hedge the foreign currency risk on forecasted payment obligations. At 31 December 2012, the Group and the Company have outstanding forward exchange contracts with notional principal amounts of approximately $42.9 million (2011: Nil). The Group’s and the Company’s exposures to United States Dollar are as follows: GROUP COMPANY 2012 2011 2012 2011 $’mil $’mil $’mil $’mil Trade and other receivables 18.2 6.4 5.8 6.9 Cash and cash equivalents 86.6 17.3 76.3 14.4 Trade and other payables (163.2) (164.5) (92.9) (111.6) (58.4) (140.8) (10.8) (90.3) In respect of other monetary liabilities held in foreign currencies, the Group ensures that the net exposure is kept to an acceptable level by buying foreign currencies at spot rates where necessary to address any shortfalls. Annual Report 2012 / STARHUB LTD / 177 Notes to the Financial Statements Year ended 31 December 2012 27 Financial Risk Management (continued) Foreign currency risk (continued) Sensitivity analysis At 31 December 2012, a 1% (2011: 1%) strengthening of Singapore Dollar against the United States Dollar would increase profit before taxation by the amounts shown below. This analysis assumes that all other variables, in particular interest rates, remain constant. GROUP COMPANY 2012 2011 2012 2011 $’mil $’mil $’mil $’mil Profit before taxation 0.6 1.4 0.1 0.9 A 1% (2011: 1%) weakening of Singapore Dollar against the United States Dollar would have had the equal but opposite effect to the amounts shown above, on the basis that all other variables, in particular interest rates, remain constant. Estimation of fair values The following summarises the significant methods and assumptions used in estimating the fair values of financial instruments of the Group and Company. Derivatives Marked to market valuations of the forward exchange contracts are provided by the banks. For interest rate swaps, valuations are also provided by the banks. Those quotes are back tested using pricing models or discounted cash flow techniques. Where discounted cash flow techniques are used, estimated future cash flows are based on management’s best estimates and the discount rate is a market related rate for a similar instrument at the reporting date. Where other pricing models are used, inputs are based on market related data at the reporting date. Borrowings The fair values of borrowings which reprice within one year of reporting date were assumed to equate the carrying value. All other borrowings are calculated using discounted cash flow models based on the present value of future principal and interest cash flows, discounted at the market rate at the reporting date. Other financial assets and liabilities The carrying amounts of financial assets and liabilities with maturity of less than one year (including trade and other receivables, cash and cash equivalents, and trade and other payables) are assumed to approximate their fair values. Interest rates used in determining fair values The Group and the Company use the interbank swap yield as of 31 December 2012 plus an adequate constant credit spread to discount financial instruments. The interest rates used are as follows: 2012 2011 % per annum % per annum Derivatives 0.855 – 2.250 0.920 – 3.015 178 / STARHUB LTD / Annual Report 2012 27 Financial Risk Management (continued) Fair value hierarchy The table below analyses financial instruments carried at fair value, by valuation method. The different levels have been defined as follows: Level 1: quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities; Level 2: inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly (i.e. as prices) or indirectly (i.e. derived from prices); Level 3: inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data (unobservable inputs). The following table represents the assets and liabilities measured at fair value, using Level 2 valuation method, at reporting date: GROUP AND COMPANY 2012 2011 $’mil $’mil Mark-to-market financial instruments – Liabilities 9.0 8.0 Borrowings – Medium term note 220.0 – 28 Capital Management The Group regularly reviews its financial position, capital structure and use of capital, with the objective of achieving longterm capital efficiency, optimum shareholders’ total returns, including the level of dividends, and proper strategic positioning. From time to time, the Group may purchase its own shares on the market; the timing of these purchases depends on market prices. Such share purchases are intended to be used for issuing shares under the StarHub Share Option Plan, StarHub Performance Share Plan and StarHub Restricted Stock Plan programmes. Other than for such specific purposes, the Group does not have a defined share buy-back plan. The Group manages the use of capital centrally and all borrowings to fund the operations of the subsidiaries are managed by the Company. The capital employed by the Company consists of equity attributable to shareholders, bank borrowings from financial institutions and medium term note issued. The Group is not subject to any externally imposed capital requirement. There were no changes in the Group’s approach to capital management during the year. Annual Report 2012 / STARHUB LTD / 179 Notes to the Financial Statements Year ended 31 December 2012 29 Commitments (a) Capital and other financial commitments GROUP COMPANY 2012 2011 2012 2011 $’mil $’mil $’mil $’mil Contracted and not provided for in the financial statements: – Capital expenditures 271.8 195.1 211.6 167.6 – Other operating expenditures 452.1 454.9 – – 723.9 650.0 211.6 167.6 Included in the capital expenditures contracted by the Company is an amount of approximately $68.1 million (2011: $56.2 million) which has been entered into on behalf of a subsidiary. As at 31 December 2012, the Group has outstanding capital and other financial commitments with related companies amounting to $20.7 million (2011: $28.1 million). (b) Operating leases Future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases are as follows: GROUP COMPANY 2012 2011 2012 2011 $’mil $’mil $’mil $’mil Payable: – Within 1 year 97.8 98.0 51.2 51.6 – Within 2 to 5 years 219.9 270.4 106.5 135.5 – After 5 years 4.7 20.6 3.6 11.5 322.4 389.0 161.3 198.6 Included in the operating lease commitment of the Company is $6.6 million (2011: $6.6 million) which is contracted on behalf of a subsidiary. The operating leases include lease of premises and network infrastructure. The leases have varying terms and renewal rights. As at 31 December 2012, the Group has outstanding operating lease commitments with related companies amounting to $253.9 million (2011: $310.3 million). 30 Subsequent Event The directors have proposed a final dividend of $0.05 (2011: $0.05) per share, tax exempt (one tier), totalling $85.9 million (2011: $85.8 million) in respect of the financial year ended 31 December 2012. This proposed final tax exempt dividend has not been recognised as at year end and will be submitted for shareholders’ approval at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting of the Company in 2013. 180 / STARHUB LTD / Annual Report 2012 Interested Person Transactions and Material Contracts (pursuant to SGX-ST Listing Manual Rule 907 and Rule 1207(8)) Aggregate value of all Aggregate value of all interested person transactions interested person transactions conducted under a Shareholders’ (excluding transactions less Mandate pursuant to Rule 920 than $100,000 and transactions of the SGX-ST Listing Manual conducted under a Shareholders’ (excluding transactions Mandate pursuant to Rule 920 of less than $100,000) the SGX-ST Listing Manual) 1 January 2012 to 1 January 2012 to 31 December 2012 31 December 2012 $’mil $’mil Transactions for the Sale of Goods & Services CapitaLand Limited & its associates 0.1 – Singapore Telecommunications Limited & its associates 61.7 – STATS ChipPac Ltd & its associates 0.2 – STT Communications Ltd and its associates 0.3 – TeleChoice International Ltd & its associates 5.1 – Temasek Holdings (Private) Limited & its associates (other than those disclosed above) 6.1 – 73.5 – Transactions for the Purchase of Goods & Services CapitaLand Limited & its associates 2.5 – Mapletree Industrial Trust & its associates 3.4 – Refinery Media Pte Ltd – 2.2 Singapore Power Limited & its associates 25.9 – Singapore Telecommunications Limited & its associates 113.0 – SMRT Corporation Ltd & its associates 3.5 – STT Communications Ltd and its associates 1.9 – TeleChoice International Ltd & its associates 225.4 – Temasek Holdings (Private) Limited & its associates (other than those disclosed above) 2.7 – 378.3 2.2 During the financial year ended 31 December 2012, no material contracts were entered into by StarHub Ltd or any of its subsidiaries involving the interests of the CEO, any Director or controlling shareholder pursuant to Rule 1207(8) of the SGX-ST Listing Manual. Annual Report 2012 / STARHUB LTD / 181 Shareholding Information As at 22 February 2013 Class of shares : Ordinary share Voting rights : One vote per share Total number of issued shares excluding treasury shares : 1,718,423,474 Total number of treasury shares held : 72,788 Percentage of treasury shares held against the total number of : 0.004% issued shares excluding treasury shares Distribution of shareholdings Size of shareholdings No. of shareholders % of shareholders No. of shares % of issued share capital 1 – 999 1,153 8.83 642,168 0.04 1,000 – 10,000 9,832 75.29 37,844,699 2.20 10,001 – 1,000,000 2,050 15.70 88,241,086 5.13 1,000,001 and above 24 0.18 1,591,768,309 92.63 Total 13,059 100.00 1,718,496,262 100.00 Substantial shareholders Number of shares (5) Name Direct interest Deemed interest % of issued share capital (1) Temasek Holdings (Private) Limited – 972,586,140 56.60 (2) Singapore Technologies Telemedia Pte Ltd – 970,807,990 56.49 (2) STT Communications Ltd – 970,807,990 56.49 (2) Asia Mobile Holding Company Pte. Ltd. – 970,807,990 56.49 Asia Mobile Holdings Pte. Ltd. 970,807,990 – 56.49 (3) Qatar Telecom (Qtel) Q.S.C. – 970,807,990 56.49 (3) Qtel Investment Holdings S.P.C. – 970,807,990 56.49 (4) Nippon Telegraph and Telephone Corporation – 171,490,520 9.98 NTT Communications Corporation 171,490,520 – 9.98 Notes: (1) Temasek Holdings (Private) Limited is deemed to have an interest in 972,586,140 shares of StarHub in which Fullerton Fund Management Company Ltd, DBS Group Holdings Ltd and Singapore Technologies Telemedia Pte Ltd (ST Telemedia) group of companies have or are deemed to have an interest. (2) ST Telemedia is deemed to have an interest in 970,807,990 shares of StarHub held by Asia Mobile Holdings Pte. Ltd. (AMH), a subsidiary of Asia Mobile Holding Company Pte. Ltd. (AMHC), which is in turn a wholly-owned subsidiary of STT Communications Ltd, a wholly-owned subsidiary of ST Telemedia. AMHC holds approximately 75% of the total issued share capital of AMH. (3) Qtel Investment Holdings S.P.C. (QIH) and Qatar Telecom (Qtel) Q.S.C. (Qtel) are deemed to have an interest in 970,807,990 shares of StarHub held by AMH. QIH holds approximately 25% of the total issued share capital of AMH. QIH is a wholly-owned subsidiary of Qtel. (4) Nippon Telegraph and Telephone Corporation (NTT) is deemed to have an interest in 171,490,520 shares of StarHub held by NTT Communications Corporation, a wholly-owned subsidiary of NTT. (5) The shareholding percentage is based on the number of issued shares of StarHub excluding treasury shares. 182 / STARHUB LTD / Annual Report 2012 Twenty largest shareholders No. Name of shareholder Number of shares held % of issued share capital (1) 1 Asia Mobile Holdings Pte. Ltd. 970,807,990 56.49 2 NTT Communications Corporation 171,490,520 9.98 3 Citibank Nominees Singapore Pte Ltd 126,730,399 7.37 4 DBS Nominees Pte Ltd 93,362,072 5.43 5 HSBC (Singapore) Nominees Pte Ltd 73,906,032 4.30 6 DBSN Services Pte Ltd 51,816,834 3.02 7 Raffles Nominees (Pte) Ltd 30,462,076 1.77 8 United Overseas Bank Nominees Pte Ltd 23,198,044 1.35 9 Singapore Press Holdings Limited 12,911,230 0.75 10 DB Nominees (Singapore) Pte Ltd 8,397,818 0.49 11 BNP Paribas Securities Services 5,259,848 0.31 12 Yeo Kok Pin 3,444,000 0.20 13 Bank of Singapore Nominees Pte Ltd 3,055,324 0.18 14 Morgan Stanley Asia (Singapore) Pte Ltd 2,032,609 0.12 15 Yeo Wei Yan 1,822,000 0.11 16 Yeo Kok Seng 1,688,000 0.10 17 BNP Paribas Nominees Singapore Pte Ltd 1,686,812 0.10 18 OCBC Nominees Singapore Pte Ltd 1,665,225 0.10 19 Koh Kai Jiang 1,605,000 0.09 20 Merrill Lynch (Singapore) Pte Ltd 1,598,818 0.09 Total 1,586,940,651 92.35 (1) The shareholding percentage is based on the number of issued shares of StarHub excluding treasury shares. Shareholding held in hands of the public Based on the information available to StarHub as at 22 February 2013, approximately 33.32% of the total number of issued shares (excluding treasury shares) of StarHub was held by the public. Accordingly, StarHub has complied with Rule 723 of the SGX-ST Listing Manual. Annual Report 2012 / STARHUB LTD / 183 StarHub Ltd (Incorporated in the Republic of Singapore) Co. Reg. No. 199802208C Notice of Fifteenth Annual General Meeting Notice of Fifteenth Annual General Meeting Notice is hereby given that the Fifteenth Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held at StarHub Auditorium, 67 Ubi Avenue 1, #03-01 (South Wing) StarHub Green, Singapore 408942 on 15 April 2013 at 10.00 a.m. for the following purposes: Ordinary Business 1 To receive and adopt the Directors’ Report and the Audited Accounts for the financial year ended 31 Resolution 1 December 2012 and the Auditors’ Report therein. 2 To re-elect the following Directors, each of whom will retire by rotation pursuant to Article 93 of the Company’s Articles of Association and who, being eligible, will offer themselves for re-election: (a) Mr Teo Ek Tor (Independent Member of Audit Committee); Resolution 2 (b) Mr Liu Chee Ming; Resolution 3 (c) Mr Nihal Vijaya Devadas Kaviratne (Independent Member of Audit Committee); and Resolution 4 (d) Mr Lim Ming Seong (Member of the Audit Committee). Resolution 5 The profile of Mr Teo, Mr Liu, Mr Kaviratne and Mr Lim can be found on pages 20 to 22 of the StarHub Ltd Annual Report 2012. 3 To re-elect the following Directors, each of whom will retire pursuant to Article 99 of the Company’s Articles of Association and who, being eligible, will offer themselves for re-election: (a) Mr Takeshi Kazami; Resolution 6 (b) Mr Sio Tat Hiang; and Resolution 7 (c) Mr Tan Tong Hai. Resolution 8 The profile of Mr Kazami, Mr Sio and Mr Tan can be found on pages 23 and 32 of the StarHub Ltd Annual Report 2012. 4 To approve the sum of S$1,696,420 as Directors’ Remuneration for the financial year ended 31 December Resolution 9 2012 comprising: (a) S$1,237,684 to be paid in cash (2011: S$1,165,850); and (b) S$458,736 to be paid in the form of restricted share awards pursuant to the StarHub Restricted Stock Plan (2011: S$426,450). 5 To declare a final dividend of five cents per ordinary share for the financial year ended 31 December 2012. Resolution 10 6 To re-appoint KPMG LLP as Auditors of the Company and authorise the Directors to fix their remuneration. Resolution 11 Special Business To consider and if thought fit, to pass the following resolutions which will be proposed as Ordinary Resolutions: 7 That authority be and is hereby given to the Directors to: Resolution 12 (a) (i) issue shares in the capital of the Company (“shares”) whether by way of rights, bonus or otherwise; and/or (ii) make or grant offers, agreements or options (collectively, “Instruments”) that might or would require shares to be issued, including but not limited to the creation and issue of (as well as adjustments to) warrants, debentures or other instruments convertible into shares, at any time and upon such terms and conditions and for such purposes and to such persons as the Directors may in their absolute discretion deem fit; and (b) (notwithstanding the authority conferred by this Resolution may have ceased to be in force) issue shares in pursuance of any Instrument made or granted by the Directors while this Resolution was in force, 184 / STARHUB LTD / Annual Report 2012 provided that: (1) the aggregate number of shares to be issued pursuant to this Resolution (including shares to be issued in pursuance of Instruments made or granted pursuant to this Resolution) does not exceed 50% of the total number of issued shares (excluding treasury shares) in the capital of the Company (as calculated in accordance with subparagraph (2) below), of which the aggregate number of shares to be issued other than on a pro rata basis to shareholders of the Company (including shares to be issued in pursuance of Instruments made or granted pursuant to this Resolution) does not exceed 15% of the total number of issued shares (excluding treasury shares) in the capital of the Company (as calculated in accordance with subparagraph (2) below); (2) (subject to such manner of calculation as may be prescribed by the Singapore Exchange Securities Trading Limited (“SGX-ST”)) for the purpose of determining the aggregate number of shares that may be issued under subparagraph (1) above, the total number of issued shares (excluding treasury shares) shall be based on the total number of issued shares (excluding treasury shares) in the capital of the Company, at the time this Resolution is passed, after adjusting for: (i) new shares arising from the conversion or exercise of any convertible securities or share options or vesting of share awards which are outstanding or subsisting at the time this Resolution is passed; and (ii) any subsequent bonus issue, consolidation or subdivision of shares; (3) in exercising the authority conferred by this Resolution, the Company shall comply with the provisions of the Listing Manual of the SGX-ST for the time being in force (unless such compliance has been waived by the SGX-ST) and the Articles of Association for the time being of the Company; and (4) (unless revoked or varied by the Company in General Meeting) the authority conferred by this Resolution shall continue in force until the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company or the date by which the next Annual General Meeting of the Company is required by law to be held, whichever is the earlier. 8 That authority be and is hereby given to the Directors to allot and issue from time to time such number of Resolution 13 ordinary shares in the capital of the Company as may be required to be issued pursuant to the exercise of options granted under the StarHub Pte Ltd Share Option Plan. 9 That approval be and is hereby given to the Directors to: Resolution 14 (a) offer and grant options in accordance with the provisions of the StarHub Share Option Plan 2004 (the “Share Option Plan”) and/or to grant awards in accordance with the provisions of the StarHub Performance Share Plan (the “Performance Share Plan”) and/or the StarHub Restricted Stock Plan (the “Restricted Stock Plan”) (the Share Option Plan, the Performance Share Plan and the Restricted Stock Plan, together the “Share Plans”); and (b) allot and issue from time to time such number of ordinary shares in the capital of the Company as may be required to be issued pursuant to the exercise of options under the Share Option Plan and/or such number of fully paid ordinary shares as may be required to be issued pursuant to the vesting of awards under the Performance Share Plan and/or the Restricted Stock Plan, provided that the aggregate number of ordinary shares to be issued pursuant to the StarHub Pte Ltd Share Option Plan and the Share Plans shall not exceed 15% of the total number of issued shares (excluding treasury shares) in the capital of the Company from time to time. 10 To transact such other business as may be transacted at an Annual General Meeting of the Company. By Order of the Board Veronica Lai Company Secretary Singapore, 21 March 2013 Annual Report 2012 / STARHUB LTD / 185 StarHub Ltd (Incorporated in the Republic of Singapore) Co. Reg. No. 199802208C Notice of Fifteenth Annual General Meeting Notes: 1 A member of the Company entitled to attend and vote at the Annual General Meeting is entitled to appoint not more than two proxies to attend and vote in his stead. A proxy need not be a member of the Company. 2 The instrument appointing a proxy must be lodged at the office of the Share Registrar of the Company, M & C Services Private Limited, at 112 Robinson Road, #0501, Singapore 068902 (Attn: The Share Registrar) not less than 48 hours before the time appointed for the Annual General Meeting. Explanatory Notes : Resolution 9 Resolution 9 is to approve the payment of an aggregate sum of S$1,696,420 as Directors’ remuneration for the non-executive Directors of the Company for the financial year ended 31 December 2012. If approved, each of the non-executive Directors will receive 70% of his Directors’ remuneration in cash and (with the exception of Mr Kua Hong Pak, Mr Sadao Maki and Mr Takeshi Kazami) 30% of his Directors’ remuneration in the form of a restricted share award pursuant to the StarHub Restricted Stock Plan. See the section on “2. Remuneration Matters” in the Corporate Governance section on pages 61 to 65 of the Annual Report 2012 for the rationale in relation to the shares component of the non-executive Directors’ remuneration. The number of shares to be awarded will be based on the volume weighted average price of a share listed on the SGX-ST over the 14 trading days commencing on the ex-dividend date that immediately follows the Annual General Meeting. The number of shares to be awarded will be rounded down to the nearest hundred, with cash to be paid in lieu of the remaining shares arising. The restricted share awards will consist of the grant of fully paid shares, without any performance or vesting conditions attached. However, in order to encourage alignment of the interests of the Directors with the interests of shareholders, non-executive Directors who received the aforesaid restricted share award are required to hold shares in the Company worth at least the prevailing annual basic retainer fee, or the aggregate of (a) the total number of shares awarded as part of their remuneration for the financial year ended 31 December 2011 and each subsequent financial year thereafter and (b) 50% of the total number of shares awarded from the financial year ended 31 December 2007 to the financial year ended 31 December 2010, whichever is lower. Non-Executive Directors can dispose of all their shares one year after ceasing to be a Director. Each of Mr Kua Hong Pak, Mr Sadao Maki and Mr Takeshi Kazami has declined the restricted share award grant, and will only receive the cash component of their remuneration. Resolution 12 Resolution 12 is to empower the Directors to issue shares in the capital of the Company and to make or grant instruments (such as warrants or debentures) convertible into shares, and to issue shares in pursuance of such instruments, up to a number not exceeding in total 50% of the total number of issued shares (excluding treasury shares) in the capital of the Company, with a sub-limit of 15% for issues other than on a pro rata basis to shareholders. For the purpose of determining the aggregate number of shares that may be issued, the total number of issued shares (excluding treasury shares) shall be based on the total number of issued shares (excluding treasury shares) in the capital of the Company at the time that Resolution 12 is passed, after adjusting for (a) new shares arising from the conversion or exercise of any convertible securities or share options or vesting of share awards which are outstanding or subsisting at the time that Resolution 12 is passed, and (b) any subsequent bonus issue, consolidation or subdivision of shares. Resolution 13 Resolution 13 is to empower the Directors to issue shares in the capital of the Company pursuant to the exercise of options granted under the StarHub Pte Ltd Share Option Plan. Resolution 14 Resolution 14 is to empower the Directors to offer and grant options and/or grant awards and to issue shares in the capital of the Company pursuant to the StarHub Share Option Plan 2004, the StarHub Performance Share Plan and the StarHub Restricted Stock Plan (collectively, the “Share Plans”) provided that the aggregate number of shares issued pursuant to the StarHub Pte Ltd Share Option Plan and the Share Plans shall not exceed 15% of the total number of issued shares (excluding treasury shares) in the capital of the Company for the time being. Approval for the adoption of the Share Plans was given by shareholders at an Extraordinary General Meeting of the Company held on 16 August 2004. The grant of options and awards under the respective Share Plans will be made in accordance with their respective provisions. Notice of Books Closure and Final Dividend Payment Date Notice is hereby given that, subject to the approval of the shareholders to the final dividend at the Fifteenth Annual General Meeting, the Register of Members and the Transfer Books of the Company will be closed on 22 April 2013 (“Books Closure Date”). Duly completed registrable transfers received by the Company’s share registrar, M & C Services Private Limited, 112 Robinson Road, #05-01, Singapore 068902 up to the close of business at 5.00 p.m. on 19 April 2013 (“Entitlement Date”) will be registered to determine members’ entitlements to the final dividend. Subject as aforesaid, persons whose securities accounts with The Central Depository (Pte) Limited are credited with ordinary shares in the capital of the Company as at 5.00 p.m. on the Entitlement Date will be entitled to the final dividend. The final dividend, if so approved by shareholders, will be paid on 3 May 2013. 186 / STARHUB LTD / Annual Report 2012 StarHub Ltd IMPORTANT: 1. For investors who have used their CPF monies to buy StarHub (Incorporated in the Republic of Singapore) Ltd’s shares, this report is forwarded to them at the request Co. Reg. No. 199802208C of their CPF Approved Nominees and is sent solely FOR INFORMATION ONLY. Proxy Form 2. This Proxy Form is not valid for use by CPF investors for all intents and purposes if used or purported to be used by them. Fifteenth Annual General Meeting I/We, NRIC/ Passport/Co. Reg. No. of (Address) being a member/members of STARHUB LTD (the “Company”) hereby appoint: Name Address NRIC/ Proportion of Passport Number Shareholding (%) and/or (delete as appropriate) as my/our proxy/proxies to attend and to vote for me/us and on my/our behalf and, if necessary, to demand a poll, at the Annual General Meeting (“AGM”) of the Company to be held on 15 April 2013 at 10.00 a.m. at StarHub Auditorium, 67 Ubi Avenue 1, #03-01 (South Wing) StarHub Green, Singapore 408942 and at any adjournment thereof. I/We direct my/our proxy/proxies to vote for or against the Resolutions to be proposed at the AGM as indicated hereunder. In the absence of specific directions, the proxy/proxies will vote or abstain as he/they may think fit, as he/they will on any other matter arising at the AGM and at any adjournment thereof. No. Resolutions For * Against * Ordinary Business 1 To receive and adopt the Reports of Directors and Auditors and Audited Accounts 2 To re-elect Mr Teo Ek Tor as Director 3 To re-elect Mr Liu Chee Ming as Director 4 To re-elect Mr Nihal Vijaya Devadas Kaviratne as Director 5 To re-elect Mr Lim Ming Seong as Director 6 To re-elect Mr Takeshi Kazami as Director 7 To re-elect Mr Sio Tat Hiang as Director 8 To re-elect Mr Tan Tong Hai as Director 9 To approve the Directors’ Remuneration 10 To declare the Final Dividend 11 To re-appoint KPMG LLP as Auditors and to authorise the Directors to fix their remuneration Special Business 12 To authorise Directors to allot and issue shares 13 To authorise Directors to allot and issue shares pursuant to exercise of options granted under the StarHub Pte Ltd Share Option Plan 14 To authorise Directors to offer/grant options and/or grant awards and allot and issue shares pursuant to the StarHub Share Option Plan 2004, the StarHub Performance Share Plan and the StarHub Restricted Stock Plan * If you wish to exercise all your votes “For” or “Against” the relevant Resolution, please tick (ü) within the relevant box provided. Alternatively, if you wish to exercise your votes both “For” or “Against” the relevant Resolution, please insert the relevant number of Shares in the boxes provided. Dated this day of 2013. Total Number of Shares Held Signature(s) or Common Seal of members 3rd fold here & fold flap Affix Postage Stamp STARHUB LTD 112 Robinson Road #05-01 Singapore 068902 Attn: The Share Registrar 2nd fold here Notes: 1. Please insert the total number of shares held by you. If you have shares entered against your name in the Depository Register (as defined in Section 130A of the Companies Act, Cap. 50 of Singapore), you should insert that number of shares. If you only have shares registered in your name in the Register of Members, you should insert that number of shares. However, if you have shares entered against your name in the Depository Register and shares registered in your name in the Register of Members, you should insert the aggregate number of shares entered against your name in the Depository Register and registered in your name in the Register of Members. 2. A member of the Company entitled to attend and vote at a meeting of the Company is entitled to appoint one or two proxies to attend and vote in his stead. Where a member appoints two proxies, the appointments shall be invalid unless he specifies the proportion of his holding (expressed as a percentage of the whole) to be represented by each proxy. A proxy need not be a member of the Company. 3. The instrument appointing a proxy or proxies must be deposited at the office of the Share Registrar of the Company, M & C Services Private Limited, at 112 Robinson Road, #05-01, Singapore 068902 (Attn: The Share Registrar), not less than 48 hours before the time appointed for the Annual General Meeting. 4. The instrument appointing a proxy or proxies must be under the hand of the appointor or of his attorney duly authorised in writing. Where the instrument appointing a proxy or proxies is executed by a corporation, it must be executed either under its seal or under the hand of an officer or attorney duly authorised. Where an instrument appointing a proxy is signed on behalf of the appointor by an attorney, the letter or power of attorney or a duly certified copy thereof must (failing previous registration with the Company) be lodged with the instrument of proxy, failing which the instrument may be treated as invalid. 5. A corporation which is a member may authorise by resolution of its Directors or other governing body such person as it thinks fit to act as its representative at the Annual General Meeting, in accordance with Section 179 of the Companies Act, Cap. 50 of Singapore. 6. The Company shall be entitled to reject the instrument appointing a proxy or proxies if it is incomplete, improperly completed or illegible or where the true intentions of the appointor are not ascertainable from the instructions of the appointor specified in the instrument appointing a proxy or proxies. In addition, in the case of members whose shares are entered against their names in the Depository Register, the Company may reject any instrument appointing a proxy or proxies lodged if such members are not shown to have shares entered against their names in the Depository Register 48 hours before the time appointed for holding the Annual General Meeting as certified by The Central Depository (Pte) Limited to the Company. Cut along line Cut along line 1st fold here Corporate Information BOARD OF DIRECTORS STRATEGY COMMITTEE SUBSIDIARIES TAN Guong Ching (Chairman) Nihal Vijaya Devadas KAVIRATNE CBE StarHub Mobile Pte Ltd Neil MONTEFIORE (CEO) (Chairman) StarHub Cable Vision Ltd. KUA Hong Pak TAN Guong Ching StarHub Internet Pte Ltd Peter SEAH Lim Huat Steven Terrell CLONTZ StarHub Online Pte Ltd Nihal Vijaya Devadas KAVIRATNE CBE LIM Ming Seong SHINE Systems Assets Pte. Ltd. Steven Terrell CLONTZ LIU Chee Ming StarHub Shop Pte Ltd LIM Ming Seong Robert J. SACHS StarHub, Inc. TEO Ek Tor Stephen Geoffrey MILLER StarHub (Hong Kong) Limited LIU Chee Ming YONG Lum Sung StarHub (Mauritius) Ltd Robert J. SACHS Nucleus Connect Pte. Ltd. Nasser MARAFIH COMPANY SECRETARIES SIO Tat Hiang Veronica LAI Kwai-Yi INVESTOR RELATIONS Takeshi KAZAMI KONG Pooi Foong For enquiries on the Group’s business performance, contact the Investor AUDIT COMMITTEE REGISTRATION NUMBER Relations team at email: ir@starhub.com KUA Hong Pak (Chairman) 199802208C Nihal Vijaya Devadas KAVIRATNE CBE LIM Ming Seong REGISTERED ADDRESS TEO Ek Tor 67 Ubi Avenue 1 #05-01 StarHub Green EXECUTIVE RESOURCE AND Singapore 408942 COMPENSATION COMMITTEE Tel: (65) 6825 5000 Peter SEAH Lim Huat (Chairman) Fax: (65) 6721 5000 LIM Ming Seong SIO Tat Hiang SHARE REGISTRAR M & C Services Private Limited NOMINATING COMMITTEE 112 Robinson Road #05-01 Peter SEAH Lim Huat (Chairman) Singapore 068902 TEO Ek Tor SIO Tat Hiang AUDITORS KPMG LLP Certified Public Accountants 16 Raffles Quay #22-00 Hong Leong Building Singapore 048581 STARHUB LTD REG. NO: 199802208C 67 UBI AVENUE 1 #05-01 STARHUB GREEN SINGAPORE 408942 TEL: (65) 6825 5000 FAX: (65) 6721 5000 www.starhub.com
