December 25, 2013 H.E. Ban KiMoon Secretary-General United Nations New York, NY 10017 USA Dear Mr. Secretary-General, General, I am honored to confirm that Best Industrial Company Ltd. reaffirms its support the ten principles of the UN Global Compact with respect to human rights, labor, environment, and anti-corruption. corruption. With this commitment, we express our intent to advance these principles within our sphere of influence, and will make a clear statement of this commitment to our stakeholders and the general public. We also pledge to take part in the activities of the UN Global Compact where appropriate and feasiblethrough, participation in country and local networks, involvement in specialized cialized initiatives and work streams, engagement in partnership projects, and reviewing and providing commentary to participating companies on their Communications on Progress. Sincerely yours, Daw Khine Khine Nwe Deputy Managing Director Best Industrial ial Company Ltd. Page 1 of 5 Human Rights Principles Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human right abuses. Assessment, Policy and Goals An organization strongly encouraging and supporting each individual’s creativity, innovation and development, enabling each individual’s strengths to build character for the overall to flourish, without compromising its underlying principles. Implementation Human resource manual “Conflict ResolutionResolution Whenever a dispute arises among the Best Industrial Company Ltd. staff, it shall be resolved in a constructive manner, i.e. the solutions shall lead to positive changes. Employees who feel unfairly treated or who have complaints about a situation or about working conditions should notify the Executive Director and/or board member immediately.” Measurement of outcomes Semi-annual annual review completed by senior management team. Page 2 of 5 Labor Principles Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms form of forced and compulsory labor; Principle 5: the effective fective abolition of child labor; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Assessment, Policy and Goals Human resource manual refers under “Personnel Recruitment,” it is stated that Best Industrial Company Ltd. believes in equal employment loyment opportunity to each individual regardless of race, color, gender, religion, age, sexual orientation, national or ethnic origin, disability, marital status, veteran status, or any other occupationally irrelevant condition. This policy applies to recruitment ruitment and advertising; hiring and job assignment; promotion, demotion and transfer; layoff or termination rates of pay and benefits; selection for training; and the provision of any other human resource services. Implementation Maintain and improve diversity div with conscious effort. Employees are diversified. Our employees include Buddhist, Christian, Muslim, Hindu and Atheist. Physically disabled personnel are employed within the organization. Measurement of outcomes Semi-annual annual review completed by se senior management team. Page 3 of 5 Environment Principles Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Assessment, Policy and Goals Movement towards a paperless organization. Increasing our percentage of recyclable waste. Implementation Newsletters are now distributed via email, no hardcopy is provided. Printing of both sides of paper. Submitting our recyclables to recycle centers. Increasing the use of bicycles and pushcarts. Measurement of outcomes Semi-annual annual review completed by sen senior management team. Page 4 of 5 corruption Principles Anti-corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Assessment, Policy and Goals Provide continued education for all level of employees up to management about corruption, as well as what to do if one should encounter it. Implementation Promotes anti-corrupt corrupt environment within the organization’s personnel. Measurement of outcomes Semi-annual annual review completed by senior management team. Page 5 of 5
