Triacta Power Technologies Communication on Progress to The Global Compact for the Calendar Year 2012 Please find enclosed our Communication of Progress for this calendar year. We have summarized our activities pursuant to the Global Compact outlining our achievements versus our 2012 target. We have also included an update of our Report Card and an outline of our planned activities in 2013. Triacta Power Technologies remains committed to the Global Compact Initiative and it’s 10 Principles of corporate behavior. Wes Biggs P. Eng. President & CEO Triacta Power Technologies Inc. Activities Targeted and Completion Success through 2012 with Relevance to the Global Compact As a young company with limited resources Triacta’s initial focus is on area’s of activity that are aligned to one or more of the Global Compact’s 10 Principles and bring near-­‐term operational and corporate culture benefit to the company. The company is not presently a multi-­‐national. As such it has focused on domestic policies and practices this year. As it grows it will expand policies with respect to international trade & business activities. A summary of our planned activities in 2012 pursuant to the Global Compact and completion level against those activities is included in the report along with a Report Card which scores our annual progress in advancing the 10 principles of the Global Compact within Triacta. Activities for the Calendar Year 2012 2012 Activity 1 – Update of Company Mission Statement Update company mission statement to include corporate vision and goals with respect to Human Rights, Labour Rights, the Environment & Anti-­‐Corruption. -­‐ Not completed Activity 2 – Policy & Procedure Review and Update Review and update all written policies and procedures to ensure they adequately reflect the company’s position with respect to Human Rights, Labour Rights, the Environment & Anti-­‐Corruption. Where applicable the company will create a new policy for areas not currently addressed. -­‐ Completed. Version 2 of Employee Handbook updated and published Activity 3 – Employee Awareness/Participation Program Create and maintain a tool or set of tools that educates new and existing employees on the company’s Policy’s with respect to Human Rights, Labour Rights, the Environment & Anti-­‐Corruption. This tool set will also provide i) escalation procedures for violations of corporate policy and ii) mechanism’s for employee input and/or participation in Global Compact initiatives. -­‐ Completed. Version 2 of Employee Handbook updated and published. January 10, 2013 Triacta Power Technologies COP Report 2 Activity 4 – Industry Awareness Create awareness within Triacta’s business circles of the company’s membership and active support of the Global Compact. This will include publication on our company web-­‐site of our membership and support plus other hard-­‐copy initiatives still to be determined. Completed. Company Web-­‐site updated to reflect Triacta’s commitment and active membership in the Global Compact. No hard copy initiatives were undertaken. Ref http://www.triacta.com/About-­‐Triacta/Triacta-­‐Global-­‐Compact.html Updated Performance Metrics for the Calendar Year 2012 Included is a report card on the company’s initiatives and completeness in implementing policies and procedures that embody the 10 principles of the Global Compact. The company is scoring itself from 0-­‐10 on its operational procedures and policies for each principle. It will not be the intention of the company to target improvements each year in each category but instead focus on specific areas that provide both near or mid-­‐term operational and/or corporate culture benefit and align with Global Compact Principles. Global Compact Compliance Report Card -­‐ 2012 Principle 2008-­‐ 2012 2012 Comments 2011 Target Actuals Human Rights No formal policy or 1. Businesses initiatives with respect should support and to principle 1 as of respect the 1 3 3 2011. protection of Plan for written formal internationally policy in 2012. proclaimed human Action -­‐human rights rights policies formalized in Employee Handbook 2. Businesses No formal policy or should make sure initiatives with respect they are not 1 3 3 to principle 2 as of complicit in human 2011. rights abuses. Plan for written formal policy in 2012. Action -­‐human rights policies formalized in Employee Handbook January 10, 2013 Triacta Power Technologies COP Report 3 Labour No formal policy or 3. Businesses initiatives with respect should uphold the to principle 3 as of freedom of 1 3 3 2011. association and the Plan for written formal effective policy in 2012. recognition of the Action –labour rights right to collective policies formalized in bargaining. Employee Handbook including the right to collective bargaining 4. Businesses No formal policy or should uphold the initiatives with respect elimination of all 1 3 3 to principle 4 as of forms of forced and 2011. compulsory labour. Plan for written formal policy in 2012. Action -­‐labour rights policies formalized in Employee Handbook 5. Businesses No formal policy or should uphold the initiatives with respect effective abolition 1 3 1 to principle 5 as of of child labour. 2011. Plan for written formal policy in 2012. -­‐ no formal policy completed 6. Businesses Formal policies in place should uphold the and enforced for elimination of 5 8 6 domestic Workplace discrimination in Violence and respect of Workplace Harassment employment and and Discrimination occupation. Action -­‐discrimination policies referenced in Employee Handbook Environment No formal policy or 7. Businesses initiatives with respect should support a 1 3 1 to principle 7. precautionary Plan for written formal January 10, 2013 Triacta Power Technologies COP Report 4 approach to policy in 2012. environmental -­‐no formal policy challenges. completed 8. Businesses No formal policy or should undertake initiatives with respect initiatives to 1 3 1 to principle 8. promote greater Plan for written formal environmental policy in 2012. responsibility. -­‐ no formal policy completed 9. Businesses No formal policy or should encourage initiatives with respect the development 1 3 1 to principle 9. and diffusion of Plan for written formal environmentally policy in 2012. friendly – no formal policy technologies. completed Anti-­‐Corruption No formal policy or 10. Businesses initiatives with respect should work 1 3 3 to principle 10. against corruption Plan for written formal in all its forms, policy in 2012. including extortion Action – Business and bribery ethics policy outlined in Employee Handbook Total 14 35 25 January 10, 2013 Triacta Power Technologies COP Report 5 Activities Targeted through Calendar 2013 Activity 1 – Update of Company Mission Statement Update company mission statement to include corporate vision and goals with respect to Human Rights, Labour Rights, the Environment & Anti-­‐Corruption. Activity 2 – Policy & Procedure Review and Update Establish or Augment written policies and procedures with relevant to the Environment & Anti-­‐Corruption. Activity 3 – Employee Awareness/Participation Program i) Create a condensed version of the Employee Handbook(pamphlet and/or web version) to provide a quick reference guide on Human Rights, Labour, Environmental and Ethics Policies at Triacta. ii) establish information sessions for the employees to educate and inform with respect to company policies and best practices. January 10, 2013 Triacta Power Technologies COP Report 6
