COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) FOR THE YEAR2013 This report features Paharpur Business Centre’s various Sustainable Initiatives and Efforts, Policies, Code of Conduct that effectively address the Ten Universally accepted principles of UNGC and seven principles of Women Empowerment (WEPs). Through this report, we have tried to demonstrate our commitment to internalize these principles in our daily business & our resolve to continue following the guidelines, as part of our Business Excellence Programme. -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) – 2013 PAHARPUR BUSINESS CENTRE “The Earth Is What We All Have In Common” 21, NEHRU PLACE GREENS, NEW DELHI 110 019 INDIA T: +91-(0)-11-4120 7171 F: +91-(0)-11-2620 7575 E: qualitylife@pbcnet.com, pr@pbcnet.com W: www.pbcnet.com Copyright © 2013 Chemical & Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report 2012 Page | 2 -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------Sl. No. CONTENTS Page No. 1. From The CEO’s Desk: Global Compact Compliance Statement 4 2. PBC Service Portfolio 6 3. Mission & Vision 8 4. Policy 9 Quality Policy 9 Environment Management Policy 9 Occupational Health & Safety Policy 10 Social Accountability Policy 11 Corporate Responsibility Policy 12 Equal Employment Opportunity Policy 13 HIV/AIDS Policy 13 Sexual Harassment Policy 14 Anti Corruption Policy 15 5. Stakeholder Mapping at PBC– Recognizing the key partners 16 6. PBC’s commitment to UNGC’s ten principles 17 A. HUMAN RIGHTS 17 Principle 1 Support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights 17 Principle 2 Ensure that the organization is not complicit in human rights abuses 20 B. Labour Standards 22 Principle 3 Upholding the freedom of association and effective recognition of the right to 22 Collective Bargaining Principle 4 The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour 22 Principle 5 The organization supports effective abolition of child labour 23 Principle 6 Organization promotes elimination of discrimination in respect of employment 23 and occupation C. Environment 28 Principle 7 The organization support a precautionary approach to Environmental 28 Challenges Principle 8 The organization initiates promotion of greater environmental responsibility 36 Principle 9 Encourages the Development and Diffusion of Environmentally Friendly 40 Technologies D. Anti-corruption 43 Principle 10 Business should work against all forms of corruption, including extortion and 43 bribery 7. Quality Par Excellence Our Certifications & Management Systems 44 8. Awards & accolades in the year 2012-13 44 9. PBC in news 45 10. The Road Ahead………. 50 Copyright © 2013 Chemical & Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report 2012 Page | 3 -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------CEO’S STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT TO THE TEN PRINCIPLES OF UN GLOBAL COMPACT 2013 “For us sustainability is to internalize the idea of excellence, environment & inclusive growth” We have been signatories to UNGC since 2003. We have also been one of the founding members of Global Compact Network in India. These ten principles are the guiding principles of our business & form an intrinsic part of our Corporate Governance. They give us direction towards adopting the “triple bottom-line” approach to our business. At Paharpur Business Centre (PBC), we have tried to align these principles with our sustainability business strategy and without a doubt it has paid us rich dividends. UNGC has also given us a great platform to learn best practices from peers & large corporations from all over the globe & at the same time enables us to share some of our own. This aids our core values of creating a value proposition for our clients, creating an environment where our employees get an opportunity to excel & innovate, equal opportunities to all, value & nurture talent, empowering women employees & last but not the least, our absolute commitment to integrity & stewardship. PBC has been conducting its business responsibly and is profitable. For us, a mSME in the service sector, it is indeed a great achievement, one we are truly proud of & would like to set an example for other mSMEs, that with the right resolve it is possible to be sustainable & yet profitable. It has been our constant endeavour to encourage our supply chain to align their business practices with the UNGC & sustainability principles. Through this document we have shared our various initiatives on conserving energy, water & waste, meeting our triple bottom-line goals to create an exciting workplace for our employees & creating wealth for all our stakeholders. At PBC, in the last few years, a special focus has been on the health & safety of our employees, customers & occupants of our building. We have taken several initiatives that are evident in the course of this report. Copyright © 2013 Chemical & Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report 2012 Page | 4 -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------At PBC we have tried to go beyond the reputational & societal benefits of sustainability. We accord top priority to care for the environment as we strongly feel that it alone can facilitate the growth trajectory, aligning global competitiveness, inclusivity & sustainability. We would also like to share another achievementin line with our policy to be energy-wise, we have been able to achieve the coveted ISO 50001 for EnMS, which will further help in optimizing energy efficiency at PBC. Our IAQ programme has also achieved greater strength with new methodologies & further innovation – again shared with you in this report. Given the extreme pollution levels in Delhi, we are now actively promoting our CleanAir Division to help others breathe healthy air. We once again are happy to share our progress report & our business achievements with you by way of this reportCommunication on Progress – 2013. We hope you will find it informative, insightful & encouraging. We, actively seek your feedback on this report, as it will encourage us to excel further in our business. Happy reading! With regards & good wishes for a great year ahead. Kamal meattle CEO Copyright © 2013 Chemical & Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report 2012 Page | 5 -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------PBC Service Portfolio OUR PORTFOLIO OF SERVICES: 1. BeAssured™ Security Services 2. BusinessPoint™ Virtual Office 3. CuisineArt™ Food and Beverages catering services 4. Café Einstein™ A fine dining restaurant 5. CleanAir™ Indoor Air Quality Consulting Services 6. ClearVoice™ Internet Telephony 7. FinTax™ Financial and Legal Services 8. GreenGrocer™ Fresh Fruit, Vegetable and Grocery services 9. HappiGreens™ Horticulture Services 10. IndianSpider.com™ Internet Services 11. Implement™ Engineering & Safety Services 12. LegalSpider.com™ Legal Consulting Services 13. CorporateValetService™ Facilitation Service 14. MyConference™ Tele and Video Conferencing 15. MyInterview™ Rooms, Reception to coordinate interviews 16. MyOffice™ Fully Equipped Offices and Workstations 17. MicroManage™ Property Management Systems 18. MyTraining™ Training Rooms equipped with Computers, Multimedia Projector and Internet Access 19. OfficeSupply™ Office Supplies 20. OutReach™ Training and HR Consultancy Copyright © 2013 Chemical & Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report 2012 Page | 6 -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------21. PBC-PR Public Relation Services 22. PBC Art Gallery Art for a cause 23. QualityLife™ Quality Management Services 24. Relocate™ Real Estate Services 25. SpringClean™ Housekeeping and Maintenance Services 26. TravelSpider™ Tours and Travel Services 27. Workforce Temporary & Permanent manpower solutions Associate Services: 1. Moduleone.com 2. Alltimejobs.com 3. Packaging Legends Copyright © 2013 Chemical & Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report 2012 Page | 7 -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------Mission & Vision Our Mission To be an excellent, world-class business support services company; committed to deliver benchmarked, quality oriented services to address customers' specific needs, whilst caring for the environment & people around us. We firmly believe and abide by the concept that service excellence and delivering quality service by following the triple bottom line approach and the ten universal principles of United Nations Global Compact must be a key part of the very structure and operation of an organization, and that people and systems in the organization must be constantly tuned to customer needs and to management's evolving concept of service excellence and sustainable development. Our Vision To stand out as an organization, with passion for quality service, Care for Environment and Be Sensitive to the People Around, which inspires us from within to provide end-to-end business support to our customers whom we consider as the essence of our success? Copyright © 2013 Chemical & Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report 2012 Page | 8 -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------POLICY Quality Policy Quality Policy underlines the commitment of the management and employees of Paharpur Business Centre (PBC) towards achieving quality in service by providing quality services and facilities that consistently meet and exceed customer expectation. To have a motivated and committed team by sustaining a working environment where each employee will be encouraged to excel. The Quality Policy is communicated to all employees for effective implementation and will be reviewed periodically for adequacy & suitability. PBC will ensure compliance to all the regulatory and legal requirements and shall strive to go beyond the statutory compliance. Policy is available on public domain i.e. on website www.pbcnet.com Environment Management Policy We are committed to comply with applicable environmental legislation, regulations, rules and all the requirements of the ISO 14001: 2004 standard and the norms of USGBC LEED EB (O&M) certification. The environmental policy has been set up by setting and reviewing objectives and targets periodically without sacrificing quality of life. Under the policy, we strive to create awareness among our customers that Paharpur Business Centre is committed to perform its business and related activities in a responsible manner so as to achieve continual improvement in Environmental performance. In doing so, we strive towards:  Encourage recycling or reuse of office waste.  Conserving energy and water through better management.  Minimizing use of non-biodegradable in Food and Beverage department.  Providing indoor air quality conforming to specific ASHRAE standards.  Efficient use of resources by addressing the embodied energy criteria Copyright © 2013 Chemical & Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report 2012 Page | 9 -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------In keeping with our commitment to prevent pollution, PBC has recognized the four R’s Refuse, Reduce, Reuse, and Recycle. This policy will be documented and training imparted to employees for effective implementation. This policy will be made available to public. Occupational Health & Safety Policy Paharpur Business Centre (PBC), a service provider of office and conference facilities & a suite of 27 support services, is committed to provide a safe & healthy environment, to prevent injury & ill health to its employees, occupants, visitors, guest, subcontractors & other interested parties. In doing so we strive towards:  Commitment to compliance with applicable legislation, regulations and other applicable requirements that relate to our Occupational Health & Safety Hazards.  We will implement the health and safety policy by setting and reviewing objectives and targets periodically to control and minimize risks due to OH&S hazards.  We will ensure continual improvement in OH&S management and its performance.  This policy will be documented, maintained, communicated and reviewed periodically to ensure that it remains relevant and appropriate to the organizational OH&S objectives & goals. Training will be imparted to all the persons working under the control of the organization for effective implementation.  We will strive to create awareness among our customers, sub-contractors, guests & other interested parties for better performance & to make them aware of their individual OH&S obligations.  We have replaced most of the traditional/conventional chairs with the Ergonomic Chairs. These are designed to minimize physical effort and discomfort, and hence maximize efficiency. Policy shall be made available to public, if required. Copyright © 2013 Chemical & Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report 2012 Page | 10 -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------Social Accountability Policy We, at Paharpur Business Centre (PBC), are committed to performing our business and related activities in a socially and environmentally responsible manner so as to achieve continual improvement, responsive to the needs of the organization. We believe in the triple bottom line evaluation method in delivering performance  Profit  Care for the environment  Social accountability We believe that “it can be good business” to care for one of our stakeholders viz. the society and people around us. It enables us to employ and retain great employees. We recognize that people are the core of the organization and we are committed to pursuing practices that ensure welfare and growth of our people. We shall strive to create safe & fair workplace for all our employees. We shall endeavor to create awareness among our customers, sub-contractors, & other important stakeholders on social issues related to our business area. In doing so we shall comply with the applicable national legislation and regulations and respect international conventions. We will implement this policy by setting and reviewing the procedures, standing instructions and related programs. We shall strive to integrate the relevant principles of UN Global Compact that relate to Human Rights and Labor Standards with PBC™ worker policies, code of conduct, procedures and SA standard requirements, in order to mainstream the principles in our day to day operations. This policy will be effectively documented, implemented, maintained, communicated, and accessible in a comprehensible form to all personnel, including directors, executives, management, supervisor, and staff, whether directly employed by, contracted with, or otherwise representing the Company. The policy will be publicly available in an effective form and manner to interested parties, upon request. Management shall review this policy periodically to ensure that it remains relevant and appropriate to the organizational SA objectives & goals. Copyright © 2013 Chemical & Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report 2012 Page | 11 -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------Corporate Responsibility Policy Paharpur Business Centre (PBC) a provider of serviced offices along with a suite of 27 support services is committed to perform its business in a responsible manner to produce an overall positive impact on society and environment. In doing so, we shall strive towards: Marketplace Leadership – We aim to run our business in a way that singles us out as a great provider of high quality services and preferred partner of choice to do business with. Our aim is to work with our stakeholders to develop long –term sustainable relationships. Environment – We are an environment driven company and are aware of the scale of impact our operation has on the environment. As such, we are committed to exploring ways to reduce the impact of what we do. We shall take a responsible attitude and lead the way in developing initiatives to further improve our environmental footprint. We shall be fully accountable to our clients, employees and the society that we operate in. We will strive to create business opportunities for our stakeholders and follow the core values, norms and ethics that are in-built in the way we conduct our business. Workplace – We are committed to offering our employees a rewarding and challenging workplace. We aim to become the best employer and employer of choice, demonstrated amongst other things, by current and past employees recommending the company as a great place to work. We are channeling our efforts towards making PBC a fun place to work for. We do believe that people are core to any business and are one’s most important asset and therefore we focus our energies in taking good care of them as we believe that it makes good business sense to hire and retain great employees. The idea is to synergize our efforts in order to create wealth for all. Inclusivity and Equal opportunities for all is at the core of our human resource policy. We are strictly against discrimination of any kind. We are committed to create awareness of HIV-AIDS at work place and have an adequate policy in place to handle it. Community – We strive to be good corporate citizens, we work to support the sustainability of both global and the local communities in which we operate and actively encourage our employees, customers, suppliers to consider the needs of others and involve themselves in public service through public private partnering. We are sensitive to the requirements of the community around us and our business strategies are closely interlinked with their aspirations. High standards of corporate governance care for environment and health & safety, override everything else that we do. Copyright © 2013 Chemical & Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report 2012 Page | 12 -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------Equal Employment Opportunity Policy PBC and all its related properties and holdings support equal employment opportunities for all. We are committed to the Ten Principles of United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) i.e. Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. We Are Also Certified For SA 8000 for our Social Accountability. Our Equal Employment Opportunity (EEO) Policy states that every person has the same human rights and privileges without regard to his or her race, color, religion, sex, age, physically challenged, differently able, marital status, national origin or economic status. Equal Employment Opportunity means that every applicant for a job should be considered solely on the basis of his or her qualifications. It also means that every employee should be treated equally with every other similar employee, without discrimination because of his or her race, color, religion, sex, age, physically challenged, differently-able, marital status, national origin or economic status. The company expects full co operation of everyone associated with it, to make sure these principles are upheld. Furthermore, the company expects that all matters related to recruiting, advertising, hiring, training, compensation, benefits, promotions, transfers, layoffs, recall from layoffs, educational assistance, and social and recreational programs and all treatment on the job, be free of any discriminatory practices. HIV/AIDS Policy PBC recognizes that HIV/AIDS is an issue at workplace and would like to address it proactively  PBC will provide a safe and healthy environment to the team members by developing nondiscriminatory policy and programmes on HIV/AIDS.  PBC will provide regular HIV/AIDS prevention education to all its team members and their families at various levels through formal and informal sessions. Copyright © 2013 Chemical & Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report 2012 Page | 13 ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- HIV status of the team member will be kept confidential  Any Team Member living with HIV/AIDS will be kept in employment as long as they are in position to work. If necessary, employee will be shifted to another appropriate position considering the health status at that point in time.  PBC will not discriminate against any Team Member infected by HIV/AIDS with regard to promotion, training and any other privileges, applicable to all employees of the company.  At PBC HIV/AIDS test will not be a part of recruitment process or any health check-ups.  PBC will educate its Team Members and encourage them to participate in Voluntary Counseling and Testing for seeking advice related to HIV/AIDS. SEXUAL HARASSMENT POLICY PBC is committed to provide a work environment that is free of discrimination and unlawful harassment. Actions, words, jokes, or comments based on an individual’s sex, race, ethnicity, age, religion, or any other legally protected characteristic will not be tolerated. If an Employee believes that he/she has been a victim of harassment or is aware of another employee who has been harassed, he / she should immediately report it to HRD / any of the general managers or any member of the harassment redressal committee. Employees can raise concerns and make reports without fear of retaliation. Any Superior who becomes aware of possible harassment should promptly advise Management or HR Representative, who will handle the matter in a timely and confidential manner. All employees are responsible for helping to ensure & assure a workplace free of harassment. The Company forbids retaliation against anyone who has reported harassment or participated in an investigation. All of us must recognize that such behavior not only violates the rules of common courtesy and is a violation of the Company's policy, but is also a Human Rights violation & therefore illegal under law. PBC recognizes that Sexual harassment is an issue at workplace and would like to address it proactively  To maintain a work environment that is free of sexual harassment.  To ensure annually one interactive session conducted for PBC team members and lady crewmembers.  To ensure Harassment Redressal Committee Meeting shall be conducted twice a year. Copyright © 2013 Chemical & Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report 2012 Page | 14 -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ANTI CORRUPTION POLICY PBC has a stated anti-corruption and ethical policy monitored by Human Resource Department and all the HODs in their respective business area. PBC provides the wherewithal to all the departments to ensure the success and profitability of the business ventures without compromising on the core values of conducting business such as responsibility, transparency and sensitivity towards the environment. As employees (in PBC), we:  Will ensure to behave in an honest & ethical manner.  Will set a good example by being trustworthy.  We will make sure that our behavior complies with the policies and rules of the organization / PBC.  We will use the resources of our company in the best interest of the company, and not for personal & gainful reasons. We will not misuse these resources.  We will not pay or accept bribes / anything of value / cash/ gift / gratuities, offer of employment etc, for the purpose of influencing placement of contracts, obtaining a business advantage or any other reason.  We will make a clear distinction between the interests of our company and our personal interests, and avoid possible conflicts of interest; we do not accept gifts, invitations or other advantages, which could contradict this principle or influence our business decisions that are against the norms of our company.  Ensure that we comply with law of the land, including National legislations & statutory compliances.  All commissions and fee contracts shall have prior approval of our CEO.  Report incidents, risks and issues which deviates from our policy, to your immediate reporting authority, or HeadHRD or CEO  Are continuously conscious about and aim to maintain our integrity, thereby maintaining the integrity of the organization.  All employees must adhere to this policy and any violation to the above may result in termination / legal action, as deemed fit by the management. The CEO must approve any exceptions to this policy. Copyright © 2013 Chemical & Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report 2012 Page | 15 -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------Stakeholder Mapping at PBC– Recognizing the key partners Copyright © 2013 Chemical & Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report 2012 Page | 16 -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------During the year 2013, we have addressed the Ten Principles of UNGC as under: A. HUMAN RIGHTS I. SUPPORT AND RESPECT THE PROTECTION For the UN Declaration of Human Rights and during our various engagements with our OF INTERNATIONALLY PROCLAIMED stakeholders; we use this opportunity to HUMAN RIGHTS encourage them to become part of the GCN network, in order to ensure credibility & We pursued with a mission to educate our transparency to them and their business. employees about organizational commitment to human rights through regular trainings & We have policy & an effective procedure in workshops. These trainings helped our employees place to deal with sexual harassment at to understand the principles of human rights. workplace. At PBC, we ensure strict adherence to laws This also includes the addressal & redressal of all enacted by the Government of India, to protect kinds of complaints & grievances. the interests of the workers. We follow Shops & Established Act. SA 8000:2008 certification Inclusivity is our primary concern. Our workforce cements PBC’s commitment on staff welfare & is competitive; we provide our employees an social accountability. Through this PBC reinforces enabling environment that encourages them to its commitment to basic rights, freedom to all, fair be competitive & innovative. Employees are wages, equal opportunity no discrimination on any encouraged to communicate their ideas freely at account, Inclusivity, training & skill development, the workplace. health, safety etc. We strive to create supportive ambience at A fair and open channel of communication is workplace. Employees are also empowered to maintained for all personnel at the work place. In take business decisions & be flexible within the our Management Standing Instructions (MSI) norms. Code of Conduct expresses our support We encourage diverse work force in our organization, equal rights, and equal opportunity to all irrespective of gender / caste / creed / physical challenge etc. Copyright © 2013 Chemical & Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report 2012 Page | 17 -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------Apart from this, to ensure that each & every social group is included in the business process, “ Our leadership believes in an we practice “Positive Discrimination” i.e. if all is equal, opportunity / preference given to Open Door Policy and welcomes candidates from the weaker & on the fringe each & every suggestion that sections of our society. comes... ” At PBC, we maintain a very free and open work environment, where each individual is encouraged to excel in their respective areas, take onus and responsibility for their activities and stand up in a crisis situation to take decisions to the best of their abilities. The environment is an enabling one that encourages team members to display their talent and full potential. Our leadership believes in an “Open Door Policy” and welcomes each & every suggestion that comes, irrespective of the level / hierarchy anyone can approach the CEO from the Crew / House boy to the highest ranking official – we encourage our people to be fearless and urge them to be team members rather than individual performers for the overall growth and development of the company. There is a system of not only giving suggestions during appraisal but any time anyone can drop one in the suggestion box that is opened every month and the report is discussed with the top management and the feedback given to team members on what has been implemented and what has not been and why it has not been implemented. Apart from this we leverage technology to ensure our team members are truly enabled and have all tools and tackles that are required for doing a particular job. Copyright © 2013 Chemical & Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report 2012 Page | 18 -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------For instance how does one behave when one is BENEFITS employed in PBC – what are the rules and regulations, policies, core values & ethics, etc – Some of the benefits provided to full time employees All this is in our manual that is called – of PBC, including our contractual staff are as follows: Management Standing Instructions (MSI) Thus o Mountain Fresh Air inside the business center everything is laid out at the outset for one to through the indoor air quality devote time and energies in promoting and o Safety & Security systems such as fire alarms, meeting the departmental business objectives. extinguishers, fire exits, CCTV monitoring, 24 hrs security etc. At PBC everyone gets a chance to grow – there o Privilege leave of 15 days & Sick/casual leave of 12 are several examples where people have risen days in a year from the ranks and are currently holding o Provide financial assistance to employees for travel expenses for themselves and their family while on important management positions – our vacation in India. houseboys / peons etc have been promoted as o Minimum wages as per the government norms Sr. Supervisors and HODS as well – based on o Flexible working hours along with work from home their committed performance and eagerness to facility on a case to case basis learn and acquire new skills for self o Food Coupons development. o Opening of bank account for all its employees o Bonus facility PBC has formulated a scheme of providing o Provident fund monthly incentives on good performance to o Gratuity & Superannuation to employees motivate the employees for their better o Pension scheme for retired employees o Provide retirement benefits to employees performance. The performance of each applicable to permanent employees as per rules individual employee is appraised by its own HOD and regulations of the LIC Gratuity Trust. on monthly basis & based on that each o Employer’s State Insurance employee is rewarded and recognized on a o Maternity Benefits monthly basis. HRD consistently measures the o Internal & External Trainings performance and provides ongoing feedback to o Medical room for the sick employees and work groups on their progress o Medical Benefits for employee and their dependents, including Medical Insurance for 100% toward reaching their goals. employees by the company o Encourage employees to undergo annual medical checkups at any Company pre approved medical center. o Availability of First Aid Box & Sick Bay in office o Diwali / New Year / Christmas / Family day Parties, o In-House wellness facilities i.e. Yoga / Health Breakfast o Café-Einstein – In-House Fine Dining restaurant o Terrace cafeteria o Green Grocer – making farm fresh fruits Copyright © 2013 Chemical & Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report 2012 Page | 19 -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------and vegetables available in office at wholesale rates Telephone / Cell-phone facility o Internet connectivity o Celebrations during Earth Day, Environment Day etc. Picnics, movies, etc. o Café-Einstein – In-House Fine Dining restaurant o Terrace cafeteria o Green Grocer – making farm fresh fruits and vegetables available in office at wholesale rates o Telephone / Cell-phone facility o Internet connectivity o Celebrations during Earth Day, Environment Day, etc. Picnics, movies, etc. ERGONOMIC WORKSTATION Working in an office typically involves a great deal of time sitting in an office chair —a position that adds stress to the structures in the spine. Therefore, to avoid developing or compounding back problems, it is important to have an office chair that's ergonomic and that supports the lower back and bring about a good the posture of the body. We have replaced most of the traditional/conventional chairs with the Ergonomic Chairs. These are designed Ergonomically designed workstation to minimize physical effort and discomfort, and hence maximize efficiency. II. ENSURE THAT THE ORGANIZATION IS NOT COMPLICIT IN HUMAN RIGHTS ABUSES PBC ensures strict adherence to laws enacted by the Government of India, to protect the interests of the workers. In our Management Standing Instruction Code of Conduct expresses our support for the UN Declaration of Human Rights, and we also encourage our suppliers to sign up to the UN Global Compact. There has been no instance of the company having abused human rights in any manner. Our organization realizes that the prompt handling of grievances of employees and customers is of paramount importance in upholding of human rights and accordingly, we have framed procedures to address any such grievances. Copyright © 2013 Chemical & Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report 2012 Page | 20 -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------Under SA 8000:2008, we have a separate “ …. quick and easy access to HR personnel & Senior procedure on Grievance Handling, through which all employees are able to voice their concerns, Managers, in case of any queries, doubts, clarifications, grievances etc. The purpose of this procedure is to establish, maintain urgency. ” and ensure a suitable and effective method for handling grievances of personnel deputed at PBC, including workers provided by the sub contractors. The idea is to have a workplace that is sensitive to our most important stakeholders i.e. our workforce & that ensures their well being, while they are with PBC. This is taken very positively as part of our continual improvement programme & not taken adversely, wherein our team members get apprehensive about filing any grievance. No records of an employee’s use of the grievance procedure are kept in their personnel file. As stated earlier, there has been no instance of the company having abused human rights in any manner. Apart from this, we encourage employees to express views; raise issues give suggestions, and seek clarification in a fair manner. We have a suggestion box for our team members to fearlessly give their ideas / suggestions for improvement in our system. We also have a unique communication systeminternal mailing system. All employees have quick and easy access to HR personnel & Senior Managers, in case of any urgency. Copyright © 2013 Chemical & Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report 2012 Page | 21 -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------B. LABOUR STANDARDS III. UPHOLDING THE FREEDOM OF ASSOCIATION AND EFFECTIVE RECOGNITION OF THE RIGHT TO COLLECTIVE BARGAINING PBC realizes that the collective strength of employees is an effective partner towards the goal of achieving continuous sustainable growth and hence no objection is raised on employees to join any trade unions thereby ensuring freedom of association to all its employees. This is communicated through training programmes and implemented through the Social Accountability certification for SA 8000. Till date, no instances of strikes / lock out etc have happened at PBC. A noteworthy point here is that a large part of our crew members have been with us for more than five years, this shows the trust and faith that they repose in the management of PBC and also proves the management’s commitment to their personal development and welfare. We also we have a “Workers Representative” (WR) to engage with our crewmembers and understand their queries, requirement, needs, grievances, issues etc. These are then discussed with the Management Committee and HR & actions are taken to resolve all shortcoming if any. The WR acts as a bridge between the Management & Workers. He is also a key player in the scheme of things at PBC for staff welfare. IV. THE ELIMINATION OF ALL FORMS OF FORCED AND COMPULSORY LABOUR PBC believes in voluntary labour and no instances of forced / compulsory labours have come to light during the year. Regular Periodic Audits by external agencies for compliance with SA 8000:2008 is also conducted to ensure adherence to the standard and compliance to the principle. At PBC, we strongly condemn any kind of forced and compulsory labour. It is one of our values to pursue the concept of voluntary labour. Copyright © 2013 Chemical & Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report 2012 Page | 22 -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------IV. THE ORGANIZATION SUPPORTS V. ORGANIZATION PROMOTES ELIMINATION EFFECTIVE ABOLITION OF CHILD LABOUR OF DISCRIMINATION IN RESPECT OF We prefer business partners, who treat their EMPLOYMENT employees similarly as PBC follows the Delhi Shops The organization does not believe in any kind of and Establishment Act, according to which, the discrimination at workplace & at the time of age limit prescribed for child labour is below 15. recruitment only qualification of a candidate to However, PBC has prescribed the minimum age deliver effective performance is considered and yes limit as 18 years for employment. No person if all is equal, we give special preference to women, below this age can be employed in PBC, whether candidates from marginal sections of the society & directly or indirectly, thereby ensuring that child differentlyable. labour is not practiced. Yes in the above sense we do practice “positive By setting the minimum pay scale as per the discrimination” to have a diverse workforce. government norms we ensure that our employees We have adequate policies in place to firmly deal get decent wages and working conditions with these and apart from this it also is detailed in encouraging them to send their children’s to our MSI – Management Standing Instructions and schools rather than to work. processes under ISO. All our contractors & vendors are also required to We ensure 100% compliance to these. Our scrupulously follow the laws/ rules and regulations objective is to go beyond compliance. The in respect of engagement of Child Labour. organization does not believe in any kind of This is addressed through our contract agreement, discrimination based on caste, colour, gender, vendor declaration & regular engagement religion or region. We firmly believe in inclusivity programmes with our Vendors and suppliers. and strongly oppose discrimination in hiring, remuneration, access to training, promotion etc at In our SA 8000:2008 systems, we have a separate work place. It is evident from the chart given below procedure on Child Labour – Remediation Plan that Schedule caste & tribes constitute almost 11% Procedure No. SA2. & we hire people based on competencies & not caste, creed, nationality, religion, gender etc. The purpose of this procedure is to establish, maintain and ensure a suitable and effective However as part of Affirmative Action, we do process for detection & prevention of child labour practice “Positive Discrimination” i.e. if all & its remediation, which covers all personnel qualifications and hiring guidelines are met, deputed to include workers provided by preference is given to candidate from the subcontractor. marginalized / economically weaker sections of the society – after all the benefits of progress are for one and all. Copyright © 2013 Chemical & Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report 2012 Page | 23 -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------The below table clearly indicates that there is Employment without any caste discrimination is no caste discrimination within PBC carried out resulting in more than 43% employees. Our HRD Process is based on employment for backward classes at PBC. Affirmative Action and Inclusivity giving We have equal employment opportunities policy in opportunities to the marginalized sections of place at PBC. our society including Differently-able, Dalits, Tribals, SCs / STs etc. Emphasis is also given PBC CELEBRATES WOMAN POWER: on employing / hiring locally and at this moment we can safely state that most of our If India has to grow, it needs to provide sufficient management team is hired from the local education to women. community / location of operation. Even the Vedas states, “Parents should gift their daughter intellectuality and power of knowledge when she leaves for husband’s home. They should No of Team Category Members Percentage give her a dowry of knowledge.” Educated women today are not only contributing for the success of the society but also play a key role in shaping the General 158 89% life of the succeeding generations. SC 8 5% PBC welcomes the provisions of the Women’s Empowerment Principles (WEPs) – Equality Means ST 9 5% Business, produced and disseminated by the United Nations Entity for Gender Equality and the OBC 1 1% Empowerment of Women (UN Women) and United Nations Global Compact. Total 176 100% We are one of the seven signatories to UNGC and WEPs and the only mSME to demonstrate the commitment to the same. PBC has adopted the seven steps in order to empower our women employees. We have a policy in place to address this as part of our business strategy. An important business case for us – Equality Means Business Equal treatment of women and men is not just the right thing to do – it is also good for business. Copyright © 2013 Chemical & Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report 2012 Page | 24 -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------• Harnessing the broadest pool of talent. Synopsis of PBC’s Workforce • Women at work bring with them a special skill-set that meets our operational Total No. of Employees at PBC: 176 standards, especially in terms of multitasking, handling people and taking-up Gender Ratio (F: M): (15:85), leadership roles Managerial (Female: Male): (32:68) • Special preference is given to women candidates along with candidates from Non Managerial (Female: Male): (11:89) marginal sections of the society. • Visible monitoring by our CEO and the Non executive team, of the progress in genderManagerial Managérial diversity programs. No. of Team Percentage Position (in Position (in We recognized the importance of participation Category members wise Nos.) Nos.) of women in business way back in the early 90s, No of Female at the time of commencement of our Business & 27 15 % 12 15 of PBC ever since our Head of Operations has always been a woman. No of Male of 149 85% 25 124 PBC Meet our corporate responsibility and sustainability commitments by introducing Total 176 100% 37 139 “WomenCentric” policies Employees One of our interventions is “Nanhi Chaan” At PBC, we constantly work towards removing barriers through this we celebrate the birth of a girl child that help in changing the mindsets & stereotypes. in the PBC Family. Model behavior within our organization reflects the A tree is planted on this occasion by the parentsociety we would like for our employees, fellow employee, who then nurtures and looks after it citizens and families. in the same manner as they would look after their children. We have women friendly policies at work to facilitate them and simultaneously help them look after their PBC celebrates women power by celebrating homes / children and family. International Women’s day every year. • Flexible working hours, part-time jobs, work We enhance our company’s competitiveness by from home option, ‘be consultants’ and ‘comeorganizing skill-building programs aimed on-specific days’ etc. are some of the specifically at the development of women provisions tailor-made for our women employees. It is a mandate for senior executives employees to mentor junior women employees and • Extended Maternity Leaves encourage them to play a larger role in the • A medical insurance policy in place that covers company. maternity from day one Women at PBC hold the highest management • Providing manned cab facilities to the women positions. employees after 7 pm and until 7 am Copyright © 2013 Chemical & Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report 2012 Page | 25 -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------These policies make PBC an attractive place of work for women PBC recognizes that Sexual harassment is an issue at workplace and addresses it proactively, by having regular interactive sessions with PBC team members. Open Door Policy for women employees to address their specific grievances Encourage economic and social conditions that provide equal opportunities to both women and men PBC firmly believes in inclusivity and strongly opposes all kinds of discrimination in hiring, remuneration, access to training, promotion etc. at work place. We practice “positive discrimination” to have a diverse workforce. Foster sustainable development in the geographies in which we operate. Currently we operate only in Delhi and NCR. Irrespective of geographies, we will always abide by the women empowerment principles. The progress and the data is regularly communicated to our various stakeholders through CSR, COP and meets PBC enjoys the reputation of being a safe and secure place for women employees. As an organization, we strongly feel that synergies between the two genders can truly result in sustainable development of an entity, organization & a Nation as a whole. Copyright © 2013 Chemical & Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report 2012 Page | 26 -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------WOMEN’S DAY CELEBRATION AT PBC: PBC believes in celebrating International Women’s day every year. This year, our theme was “A promise is a promise, time for action to stop violence against women”. PBC strongly supported the theme. In order to encourage everyone to join us in the cause, we ran a power point presentation in the TFTs placed in our building. We organized ‘Best Dressed Female’ contest. All our women employees actively participated in the contest. Tags of appreciation were presented to each lady team member in order to show the regard that the organization has for its women employees. PBC also actively support the “NANHI CHHAAN Betiyan Aur Jungle, Jeevan Karein Mangal”, a gender equality and ecological conservation program as part of CII Northern Region's proactive engagement programme for the corporate sector to promote girl child and environment conservation. PBC also has a policy that it adheres to its business that gives equal opportunities to all irrespective of gender / caste / creed etc. Women at PBC hold the highest management positions and we foster the growth & promotion of the weaker sections at all levels. The idea is to adopt a “No Discrimination” policy at work. Copyright © 2013 Chemical & Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report 2012 Page | 27 -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------C. ENVIRONMENT VII. THE ORGANIZATION ADOPTS A It is our absolute belief that care for environment can alone help us in addressing the Climate Change PRECAUTIONARY APPROACH TO issues and take us out of through this. ENVIRONMENTAL CHALLENGES With regard to our environmental initiatives – Paharpur Business Centre is an SME in the service relating to energy management, water sector. conservation, reduction of our carbon footprint, use It is a 25 years old building in Nehru Place Greens, of sustainable resources, waste management, local built to government design, is the first office building procurement etc all these things are tangible and in India to be USGBC LEED Platinum certified under the system addresses it very substantially. Existing Buildings (Operations and Maintenance) category – the first retrofit building to be Platinum ENERGY MANAGEMENT PRACTICES: certified truly a sustainable building. We have benefited from the practices implemented It is also a BEE 5 star rated building. in PBC and the results show almost a 30% reduction in our electricity bills and our MDI has come down An eco-friendly building inflicts minimal footprint on from 735 to 350 KVA. PBC is also a Bureau of Energy the environment while enhancing user comfort and Efficiency, Ministry of Power, Govt. of India, 5-star efficiency. rated building, with average annual hourly energy Typically, environment-friendly architecture tries to performance index of 28 W hr /hr /m2 and now optimize the performance of a building, and preserve operating at 22 whr /hr /m2 since 2012. and protect important resources like water, land, and energy. This is accomplished through an integrated • At PBC, we use only 4-5 stars rated electrical approach to architecture, blending design issues, appliances. • We have installed motion sensor to control energy-efficient materials, construction techniques, the misuse of electricity. effective building systems and taking advantage of • Laptops are energy-efficient as they use 50% renewable energy supplies. Environment-friendly less energy than desktops. We have architecture is a process that must be integrated into replaced most of the desktops with laptops. every phase of the construction project, from the • Lighting levels meeting lux level beginning to end. requirements as per DIN 5035 part 2international standard. To achieve true environment-friendly architecture, • Noise level meeting IS notification in respect eco-friendly ideas need to be supported by everyone of noise as per the gazette of India involved in the process from design to construction. extraordinaire of Feb 14, 2000. Copyright © 2013 Chemical & Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report 2012 Page | 28 -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------INNOVATIVE WAYS TO MINIMIZE HEAT LED LIGHTS INGRESS At PBC our goal is to save as much energy as At Paharpur Business Centre (PBC), besides the possible through clean and clean technologies and major Energy Conservation Projects we also life style changes. encourage & follow certain best practices that further contribute to reduction in our energy bills: In view of our energy conservation targets, we have taken an important measure of replacing all • We have used Green mesh & heat reflective the CFLs with new generation LEDs. films on the southwest side windows of the building to block the direct sun heat into the We have replaced 16.5 watt CFLs by 5.8 watt LEDs. building. In the first phase we replaced a total of 75 LED • The heat gain into the building from the rooftop is minimal because of green house lights and then completed the rest in the next that houses around 300 plants / hydroponics. level. • High Albedo paint has been put on the LEDs use only 2-10 watts of electricity (1/3rd to building envelope to reduce the indirect heat 1/30th of Incandescent or Compact Fluorescent gain into the building. Lights) and last up to 10 times as long as CFL's. In • We believe that the “Color of Green is White” this context, we will be able to save 65 % energy – therefore building façade and roof has been spent on lighting. painted white, so that it reflects the heat back in summers to keep the building cool, The life of LEDs is 6 times higher than CFLS. They reducing the heat ingress and hence reducing have a pay back of 2-4 years. the cooling load – this directly impacts our financial bottom line. White is a color that Energy conservation is vital in any green building reflects light and thus has a cooling effect. and we plan to cut down on our energy usage as • Each degree centigrade decrease in much as possible till such time we can become temperature means a saving of 3-5% in airenergy positive. conditioning costs. • LEDs use only 2-10 watts of electricity (1/3rd SKYLIGHTS to 1/30th of Incandescent or Compact Fluorescent Lights) and last up to 10 times as As part of our concerted efforts to further long as CFL's. We have replaced CFLs with conserve energy, we have installed 37 sky lights LEDs. which harness solar natural light. • We have installed motion sensor to control Skylights are used in the Green House and each the misuse of electricity. such light make 4 tube lights redundant. • We have upgraded HVAC, electrical system and cooling towers that have a payback period It harvests sunlight without generating heat. of 8-14 years. Copyright © 2013 Chemical & Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report 2012 Page | 29 -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------We have an IAQ system that conforms to WATER MANAGEMENT PRACTICES ASHRAE 62.1-2007 standards. At PBC, water has always been considered as a precious resource, which is monitored at all inlet and outlet points on daily basis. As water demands and environmental needs grow, recycling & reusing of water plays a major role at PBC, helping us to conserve and sustainably manage our vital water resources. We have installed them sensor equipments like sensor taps as they help in saving a great COOLING TOWER WITH 10 REACH deal of water. At PBC, we have installed the next generation Some of the water conservation techniques of Cooling Towersof 1 degree approach that we follow are: manufactured / provided by Paharpur Cooling • Drip irrigation TowersGuaranteed to cool 800 USGPM of The balconies of our building have a large water from 92.30F at a design wet bulb number of plants with drip irrigation. This temperature of 83.0 degree F helps in reducing the heating effect inside our The set point of our Air Conditioning system is building. This also helps in keeping the air cool; set up at 25 degree – 15% less load on HVAC. hence, in reducing the use of air conditioners. We have reduced cooling load, because of • Rain Water harvesting growing fresh air indoors, has resulted in a PBC collects the rainwater from the roof with a saving of ~11.4% in HVAC costs and a highly total catchment area of 2,165 sq ft and reduced energy consumption of 28wh/hr/m2 harvests it, saving 183,000 liters/year – under and now operating at 22 whr /hr /m2 since normal rainfall conditions. 2012. • Use of Soap Free Water for Gardening This is an energy and water efficient cooling PBC channelizes approx. 150 liters of soap free tower. waste water to the garden for irrigation. • Installation of cistern based 4/2 Liter At PBC, we also monitor the wet bulb Water Closet (WC) temperature. Flush valve based WCs in the building have been replaced by cistern based 4/2 Liter WC, thus, saving us 1,302,900 L per year. Copyright © 2013 Chemical & Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report 2012 Page | 30 -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------• Hydroponics Culture for growing plants WASTE MANAGEMENT It helps in water conservation as it re-circulates the same water with 5-10% make-up water, thereby eliminating the daily watering process. INVERTED PLANTERS 4 R’s Refuse, Reduce, Reuse, Recycle is our mantra for managing waste. At PBC we have put in numerous ‘Sky Planters’ so as to save costly floor space but still meeting At PBC, we segregate waste at the point of its with our USP Indoor Air Quality & other best generation. We have separate bins for food, plastic, practices. The Sky Planter actually uses a paper etc. Food waste at PBC is converted into ground-breaking internal reservoir system that organic nature manure through Vermiculture with feeds water directly to the roots without leaks the help of worms. Further, this manure is used for or evaporation, using up to 90% less water indoor plants. This helps us in further conservation of water. It We recycle paper and plastic waste. requires watering once or twice a month only. Several trees are chopped down in order to produce papers. At PBC, we try to minimize the usage of papers by following various simple practices. Instead of circulating paper notes/chits, we prefer using our emails, setting up reminders in the computers etc. Use of internal electronic mail for correspondence is a small yet a significant step towards a paperless office. We Reuse of one-sided paper/promote communication thru I-mail/ E-mail. Inverted Planters in our Green House E-waste is discarded through e-waste recyclers and useful equipments/parts are combined to form usable machines GREEN CLEANING TECHNOLOGY Most conventional cleaning products are petroleum based and high in toxic chemicals that bring adverse effects on health. Green cleaning practices reduce transmission of toxic chemicals inside as well outside the building. Copyright © 2013 Chemical & Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report 2012 Page | 31 -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------Housekeeping chemicals used in the PBC building are Green Seal Certified. We pay a close attention to cleaning, sanitation and hygiene. Our housekeeping team is whole-heartedly dedicated to make PBC a healthy and safe environment to work. The dust collected is measured and monitored regularly. We monitor Bacteria and Fungus level in the building on a regular basis. We have Zero VOC carpets; Green Guard certified Haworth chairs with ventilated back. We have a greenhouse with hydrophones INDOOR AIR QUALITY Biotechnology which was originally developed by NASA (The National Aeronautics and Space Administration) is “ Our Indoor Air Quality conforms to being used by PBC’s IAQ Research Team on plants, suitable for Delhi climate. ASHRAE Standards. ” PBC is set up in a pollution free & green environment with Indoor Air Quality conforming to ASHRAE Standards. Indoor Air pollution is the 2nd highest killer in India. It can lead to the possibilities of eye irritation, respiratory symptoms, lungs impairment, Asthma, headache and more. We use plants to combat pollutions and drastically improve the indoor air quality. Care for the Environment has been an intrinsic part of our business. Copyright © 2013 Chemical & Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report 2012 Page | 32 -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------PBC has a well-equipped Indoor Air Quality (IAQ) department with lab facilities and a dedicated Indoor Air Quality Manager to monitor the system. Parameters of Indoor Air Quality that are monitored on daily basis in PBC arePM10, Co2, Relative Humidity and Temperature. Since 1996, IAQ results are being published regularly in Chrysalidocarpus Lutescens www.pbcnet.com. (Living Room Plant) We use toxin removing plants to clean the air and add natural Oxygen. The building has more than 1200 plants for its 300 occupants. We have a Greenhouse on our roof-top that cools the building and treats & oxygenates the air before it enters PBC. Epipremnum Aureum (Specialist Plant) Sensevieria Trifasciata (Bedroom Plant) Copyright © 2013 Chemical & Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report 2012 Page | 33 -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------EARTH DAY CELEBRATION AT PBC Paharpur Business Centre (PBC) in collaboration with The Climate Project India (TCPI) celebrated the Earth Day 2013 by organizing a plantation drive and an awareness campaign on saving our plane Earth from global warming. PBC recognizes the repercussions of these environmental challenges that are multiplying every Mr. Krishan Kalra, Trustee TCPI on Earth Day 2013 second & accordingly taken various initiatives to embark on a journey towards achieving zero tolerance to environmental degradation. On the occasion of Earth Day, PBC had invited Mr. Krishan Kalra, Trustee TCPI and Aditya Pundir, Country HeadTCPI to share their knowledge. Mr. Kalra emphasized on the measures that are small yet play an important role in curbing the crisis that our Earth is facing in the current scenario. He remarked that, “We are not required to do anything different to show our concern for our planet. Instead, we can just start keeping a close check on our regular activities by Mr. Aditya Pundir, Country HeadTCPI on Earth Day 2013 following the principles of Reduce, Refuse, Reuse and Recycle. By doing this, we can get to know how much we are contributing to the wastage and to the pollution. We can begin doing this right from our home.” Mr. Pundir gave an informative presentation on ‘Climate Crisis’. He made everyone aware of the adverse effects of global warming and how it has turned our climatic conditions upside down. He explained that the relation between the rise of temperature and climatic hardships. He said, ‘by adopting sustainable ways, we can create a flawless face of the climate ’. Mr. Barun Aggarwal, Director-Sales and Marketing PBC ON Earth Day 2013 Followed by this, Barun Aggarwal, Director-Sales and MarketingPBC, gave a presentation on “Clean Air”, emphasizing on Indoor Air Quality. Copyright © 2013 Chemical & Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report 2012 Page | 34 -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------He remarked, “Indoor Air Pollution works as a silent killer and is typically 5-10 times worse than ambient air. He also stressed upon the fact PBC when compared to Vis-a Vis to other buildings, it has better indoor air quality. He also mentioned that if a person is in the PBC building for 8-10 working hours then there is a 42 percent of probability of 1 percent of increase in blood oxygen saturation level.” PBC also organized a plantation drive in Nehru Place Greens, wherein the guests and the team members planted saplings adding to the green factor. Along with this, PBC also organized, “Nanhi Chaan”a CSR initiative wherein we celebrated the birth of a girl child in the PBC Family. The parent-employees planted a sapling on this occasion, who then nurtures and looks after it in the same manner as they would look after their children. With an objective of making everyone aware of the adverse effects of global warming that are visible on the face of our climate and encourage them to follow green practices, we ran a power point presentation on the TFTs placed inside our building. It is a paradox that we who need earth more for Team PBC and guests planting saplings at Nehru survival, have become the cause of its destruction. Place Greens Park With the motto of celebrating every day as Earth Day, Team PBC takes the pledge to make a difference to make the Face of our climate better. The PBC Team Copyright © 2013 Chemical & Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report 2012 Page | 35 -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------VIII. THE ORGANIZATION INITIATES PROMOTION OF GREATER ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY Environmental awareness among PBC team members & stakeholders our values encourage and motivate us to have a partnership with our customers, employees & other important stakeholders, driving the organization towards sustainable development. Due to our inherent values and environmental sensitivity, we are perceived as a great place to work for. Some of the initiatives for promotion of our environmental responsibility towards community & stakeholder: Awareness program for school children, employees, clients, community around us • Celebration of earth day, environment day etc as official events of the organization. • Regular interaction with school children to sensitize them to the various issues relating to environment & water management • In-house employee awareness programmes. • Information dissemination to in-house clients through TFT/display monitors installed at strategic locations including washrooms • Creating awareness through our annual communication on progress (COP) & CSR/CR reports. • Till a couple of years back there were no 4/2 l cisterns available in India. We engaged companies like Cera, Hindware & Orient Ceramics and urged them for solution. • Our CEO has been actively interacting with chairman of Delhi Jal Board for getting a STP in a public park near our office for irrigation of plants. • The initiative of water conservation at PBC runs across all verticals. • We are constantly talking to our supply chain and sensitizing them on the water issues. • In our new project-GREENSPACESTM we have been able to reduce our potable water demand from 45 l to 20 l with the help of learning from this building. Copyright © 2013 Chemical & Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report 2012 Page | 36 -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------STUDENTS OF AMERICAN EMBASSY SCHOOL VISITED PBC TO LEARN About PBC’s SUSTAINABLE WAYS – Creating Awareness by spreading the message of Environment Stewardship, how it can be a part of our daily activities and how organizations are adapting to this. Towards the Beginning of 2013, PBC actively endeavored to spread awareness on green concepts among school children. On March 6, 2013, children from American Embassy School visited PBC to see how Mr. Barun Aggarwal addressing the students green strategies have been implemented in our building. They were educated on the importance of energy conservation, waste management and sustainability. Everything was demonstrated to make them aware on various measures adopted in PBC that has rendered it as energy efficient and a BEE 5 star certified building. Enthusiastic students actively participated in the presentation and discussions on green concepts. Mr. Barun Aggarwal, Director-Sales and MarketingMr. Kamal Meattle addressing the students PBC gave a presentation on “Indoor Air Quality”. He explained that Indoor Air Pollution is more dangerous than the ambient air and that it needs a closer attention. He further elaborated about the major indoor air pollutants i.e. PM 2.5, PM 10, VOCs etc. He further explained how PBC has better indoor air quality when compared to other buildings. Students from American Embassy School Copyright © 2013 Chemical & Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report 2012 Page | 37 -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------PICTURES OF MIT VISIT TO OUR FACILITY STUDENTS FROM MIT VISITED PBC TO LEARN SUSTAINABLE WAYS OF LIVING Early this year, students from Massachusetts Institute of Technology visited PBC to learn & understand PBC’s various green, clean and sustainable methodologies adopted to make it a truly green business endeavour. They were briefed about the Green Practices that we followEnergy conservation, water and waste management, last but not the least the green cleaning technologies that have been implemented at PBC in order to reduce the negative impact of dust / VOCs etc on our indoor air quality. Our CEO, Mr. Meattle gave a short presentation on Indoor Air Quality (IAQ) system. He explained that Indoor Air pollution is generally 10 times more polluted than ambient air. Hence, at PBC, we lay more emphasis on cleaner, healthier and safer place A visit to our Green House to work. Plants inside office buildings are not just beautifiers but do wonders in terms of bringing down power costs. We at Paharpur Business Centre (PBC) use plants to combat pollutions and drastically improve the indoor air quality. We Grow Our Own Fresh Air TM with the help of more than 1,200 Toxin removing plants that are grown indoors. On this enlightening occasion, the youngsters from American Embassy School made green resolutions for the upcoming years. The students resolved to Students learning the know-how of IAQ System at make 2013 a greener and a healthier year. They PBC showed a great inclination towards waste management practices and promised to follow the 4 R’s, “Refuse-Reduce-Reuse-Recycle”. Copyright © 2013 Chemical & Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report 2012 Page | 38 -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------PBC ACCEPTS THE EARTH HOUR CHALLENGE Earth Hour is the largest movement in the history of our planet, spanning 7,000 cities, 152 countries with a digital reach of 200 million. Mr. Meattle supported the movement by accepting the ‘I Will If You Will (IWIYW) Challenge’. His challenge was to plant one tree for every 50 discarded plastic bottles if others reuse the bottles as planters. This challenge acted as a helping hand and a sensible stimulator to increase the green quotient of our planet. Every new plant will be an assurance of lesser pollution and more oxygen. Every discarded plastic bottle will be a strict ‘No’ to the usage of non-biodegradable materials and reusing them will encourage rational eco-friendly practices‘Refuse, Reduce, Recycle and Reuse.’ We wanted to highlight this impact fully and ahead of Earth Hour on 23 March. Mr. Kamal Meattle, reiterated “Though sustainable future seems to be tough, it is far from impossible. The need of the hour is ‘Change’ and it needs everyone to follow. PBC has always been supportive of efficient green practices. We have implemented several sustainable solutions and it’s heartening to see our efforts being recognized. Earth Hour 2013IWIYW is yet another one. The movement will continue till our mission is accomplished.” This was one of our creative strategies to promote green ways. Copyright © 2013 Chemical & Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report 2012 Page | 39 -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ECO-FRIENDLY HOLI CELEBRATION On the occasion of Holi, PBC organized “Eco-Friendly Holi” campaign within the building. We promoted the usage of organic/ herbal colours. Colours contain toxic colourants and bases that can cause diseases like Asthma, Eye Allergy, Renal Failure, Skin Cancer etc. Realizing that chemicals used in colours are harmful to our body, we took an initiative to distribute organic/herbal colours amongst our employees, guests and building occupants. We encouraged people to celebrate an eco-friendly, healthy and safe Holi. We have promoted this campaign, on our social media platforms as well so that we get more supporters. IX. ENCOURAGES THE DEVELOPMENT AND DIFFUSION OF ENVIRONMENTALLY FRIENDLY TECHNOLOGIES PBC encourages the use Green & Clean Technologies. We strive to create awareness amongst our stakeholders, especially our supply chain with whom we partner to create superior / green products and services. Climate Reality India, established in March 2008, is an independent chapter of Nobel Laureate Al Gore’s The Climate Project (TCPI). Its mission is to raise awareness on man-made Climate Change and to help India respond. It spans 9 countries and has over 2500 volunteers trained by Al Gore to deliver clear and concise presentations on impacts of and solutions to climate crisis PBC has partnered with TCPI India in their various awareness initiatives. Copyright © 2013 Chemical & Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report 2012 Page | 40 -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------WORLD ENVIRONMENT DAY CELEBRATION PBC celebrated World Environment Day 2013 by organizing a Contribution Camp, Promotional Campaign for Green Commuters, Anti-Food Waste and Waste Management Campaign and a Fresh Water Drive: Water for Birds and Animals. PBC recognizes the repercussions of food waste. On the occasion of World Environment Day, Team PBC came together to support Think.Eat.Save – Drive. PBC employees and the building occupants were made aware of the importance of this camp. PBC emphasized on the principles of Reduce, Refuse, Reuse and Recycle; how we can control and manage wastage. PBC also organized a Contribution Camp in association with Goonj, an NGO. It was a weeklong camp. Our motto, “Don’t Just Dump, Give” inspired people to contribute materials that may be of less or no use to them but can be useful to someone. The best part was that one could contribute anything usable like utensils, books, clothes, bags, toys, newspapers, magazines, Drop box at PBC stationery etc. The camp received a good response. “Green Commuters” was another innovative initiative of PBC. Using public transportation; carpooling; walking or cycling for commuting helps in reducing carbon footprints. On this occasion, PBC decided to promote “Green Transportation” by appreciating all the employees who choose different modes of green transport/ conveyance for commuting to and from the office and avoid using their personal vehicles. PBC promotes Green Commutation Copyright © 2013 Chemical & Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report 2012 Page | 41 -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------Realizing the fact that many birds and animals die during this season due to lack of water; PBC organized a fresh water drive namely, “Water for Birds and Animals.” Team-PBC placed earthen bowls filled with fresh water at different locations near the building. Gardeners at PBC have been observing that birds and animals drink water from these bowls and quench their thirst. We also encouraged people to perform this activity on personal and professional level. We have promoted all our campaigns and initiatives also on social media platforms. Copyright © 2013 Chemical & Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report 2012 Page | 42 -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------D. ANTI-CORRUPTION X. BUSINESS SHOULD WORK AGAINST ALL The nature of business conducted at PBC and the interaction of the various HODS with the various FORMS OF CORRUPTION, INCLUDING stakeholders of PBC were kept in mind while EXTORTION AND BRIBERY framing a policy that addressed the specific needs and concerns of the PBC business / team members. At PBC, we stringently follow the laws of land and comply with all the legal requirements. Our annual The first step in the development of the policy reports are made with due diligence and it gets vet focused on the Heads of the departments. The by the external auditors. involvement of the HODs ensured that they We firmly believe in paying our taxes on time. PBC understood the significance of the development of has kept its policies transparent to encourage this policy and its impact on the business practices ethical work culture & prevent corruption in of the company. business. It also provided the HODs an opportunity to present It is accountable & responsible to its stakeholders in their views and provide inputs on the components of ensuring that it conducts itself in an open & the policy. transparent manner. This process also gave them a strong feeling of Partner, contractors and vendors also respect our belonging and owning the system and therefore ethical policies while doing business with us. commitment to adhere to its tenets at all times. The anticorruption policy was initiated on April 28, Drawing from the inputs from the business heads, a 2011 by Quality Assurance / Sustainability team comprising key players from QA and HR Department. It was then discussed with the CEO department and the GM’s Committee developed a who was determined to have a proper system in policy framework. This was discussed with the CEO place to address corruption and ethical dilemmas for his inputs, which were included in the policy faced by the employees during operations. document. The framework of the policy was created by the Heads of the various departments, the General The CEO then presented this before the board for Managers and the CEO with inputs from specific final validation / approval, which was given on May departments like HR, Finance and QA. The process 26, 2011. It took us less than a month in formulating involved two or three brainstorming sessions where a very clear cut ethical / anti-corruption policy and practices adopted by other organizations were process. discussed too. Copyright © 2013 Chemical & Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report 2012 Page | 43 -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------It took us less than a month in formulating a very clear AWARDS & ACHIEVEMENTS IN THE YEAR cut ethical / anti-corruption policy and process. 2012-13: Thereafter the policy (detailed in Box 1 below) was • Received special commendation in shared / circulated to all the team members / CoreNet Global 2013 Awards for Industry employees of PBC, who are required to ensure strict Excellence, Economic Development and adherence to it and behave in a manner Sustainable Leadership suited/appropriate to the stated policy and rules of the • Awarded by ET Now for World CSR Award organization at all times. under the category of Best Workplace in February 2013 The organisation expects them to not only behave in • Achieved ISO 50001: 2011 FOR Energy Management System an honest and ethical manner but they are also expected to set a good example by acting in a responsible and transparent manner. QUALITY PAR EXCELLENCE OUR CERTIFICATIONS & MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS PBC has been certified with six International certifications • ISO 9001:2008 for Quality Management System • ISO 14001:2004 for Environmental Management System • ISO 22000:2005 for Food Safety Management System • ISO 50001:2011 for Energy Management Services • SA 8000:2008 for International Standard for Social Accountability • OHSAS 18001:2007 for Occupational Health & Safety Management System • Signatory to UN Global Compact and commitment to Women Empowerment Principles (WEPs) Copyright © 2013 Chemical & Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report 2012 Page | 44 -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------PBC IN NEWS Copyright © 2013 Chemical & Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report 2012 Page | 45 -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------Copyright © 2013 Chemical & Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report 2012 Page | 46 -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------Copyright © 2013 Chemical & Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report 2012 Page | 47 -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------Copyright © 2013 Chemical & Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report 2012 Page | 48 -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------Copyright © 2013 Chemical & Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report 2012 Page | 49 -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------THE ROAD AHEAD………. • To promote PBC as one of the best conferencing destinations in Delhi & NCR. • IGBC Platinum Certification for our GreenVilla™ Project, IGBC’s Green Homes category. We hope to accomplish this by March 2014. • In accordance to our commitment towards Women’s Empowerment Principles (WEPs) and United Nations Global Compact, we plan to employ larger number of women employees in PBC, in nonwomen oriented verticals & also to introduce senior women employees in the PBC Board. • As part of our commitment to “Affirmative Policy” we will continue to exercise “Positive Discrimination” to enhance the existing percentage SC / ST and OBC employees, as part of our workforce. • This year we would also collaborate with other organisations & entities to work towards the development & skill enhancement of SC / ST category. • To carry more R&D in different and innovative ways of leveraging green technology and make optimum use of resources. • In pursuant of our policy of making PBC one of the healthiest buildings in the country, we propose to get 100% of our team and as much as possible of our clients (Occupants) tested for Tuberculosis (TB). • To carry out more R&D in IAQ by experimenting with Green vertical walls, optimizing Hydroponic system of growing plants, to get ambient and inside CO2 at same levels and further reduce VOC’s, bacteria and fungus from the Indoor air. • To create awareness amongst our vendors/suppliers by demanding energy and resource efficient products. • We are planning to expand ‘Training and Development’ segment. Actual Internal Training days of an employee per year are 35.9 days, far exceeding our internal benchmark of 28 dedicated days of training per employee / per annum. Copyright © 2013 Chemical & Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report 2012 Page | 50
