sustainability report A better bank contributing to 2012 a better world ABN AMRO’s commitment to sustainability in 2012 at a glance ABN AMRO’s commitment to sustainability in 2012 at a glance 22 As a leading Dutch bank, ABN AMRO has an influential role in society, and we take our corporate social responsibility very seriously. We have learned some important lessons from the 2009 2012 financial crisis and are committed to regaining our clients’ trust. At the same time, we want to make a meaningful contribution to strengthening the financial system in We cut our energy consumption by 22% in 2012 compared the Netherlands and abroad. Additionally, various with 2009, marking a huge step forward in reducing our environmental, social, economic and political trends environmental footprint. This progress came on top of our reductions in commuter travel and waste production. have implications for our bank and for the world in which we operate. We want to respond swiftly and effectively to these trends to empower us to make a difference to society. Clients’ interests centre stage and As a financial services provider, we want to be a better building sustainable relationships bank contributing to a better world. Change is not We are committed to putting our clients’ interests first something that will happen overnight – it is a process of at all times and to building lasting relationships. continuous improvement. Below is a sampling of the Our Retail & Private Banking and Commercial & Merchant steps we took in 2012. Banking businesses do their part by offering responsible products and services. Sustainable business operations One of the lessons that emerged from the financial crisis is that clients need to fully understand the financial A better world starts with yourself. We at ABN AMRO products they purchase in order to make well-informed are keen to minimise the environmental footprint of our decisions. In response, we have simplified our product internal operations. Our motto is ‘reduction, greening and offering and rewritten product descriptions and terms responsible choices’. and conditions in understandable language. At the same time, we expect our suppliers to contribute to a better world, too. To this end, we carefully select suppliers based on the degree of sustainability of their own business operations. Just under 800 employees took part in the Plain Language Sustainable finance and investment course at the end of 2012. services A Sustainability and responsible practices are at the heart of B C A! our business. We not only expect ourselves, but also our clients to conduct people-friendly and green business practices. In this vein, we engage them in a continuous dialogue. We do not necessarily exclude businesses that lag behind in their sustainability performance, but encourage them to change and help them make their business more sustainable. We place our clients centre stage when developing products and services. Our Mortgage Care Team, for example, helps clients who are having trouble making their monthly mortgage payments set up a personal financial plan. Financial expertise for the benefit of society A key element of our strategy is our commitment to using our financial expertise for the benefit of society. We want to support people who need it, even if we have no commercial interest in doing so. Active dialogue and exchange of information with stakeholders. The approach included a client panel and contact with our commercial partners. Successful initiatives in 2012 included the programmes for financial coaching for young and old. We organise local programmes for financial education at primary and seconWe engage in active and constructive dialogue with our dary schools throughout the Netherlands, and we also stakeholders through client panels and the Sustainability offer a distinctive service aimed at older people. An example Advisory Board, among other bodies. is the Anno Nu Express touring bus, a mobile interactive information centre dedicated to state-of-the-art banking. We apply guidelines for sustainability risks when assessing clients and loan applications. Together, these guidelines People for people: this is the idea behind our social for the bank’s environmental, social and ethical policy commitment. We encourage our staff to volunteer their (ESE Policy for short). Our revised ESE Policy for lending time for a good cause. was approved in 2012. A new element is the requirement to , screen every business credit application for possible ethical, social and environmental risks. Responsible investment is growing in popularity. Since 2004, we have offered responsible asset management to our private banking clients. Our sustainable investment mandate for clients within and outside the Netherlands has grown In 2012 employees volunteered for our community significantly in recent years, with these investments totalling target groups 13,561 times. EUR 4,932 million in 2012. 3 index Chairman’s message 4 1 Our sustainability strategy 6 2 Embedding sustainability in our organisation 10 3 Applying the sustainability policy to our operations 14 4 Dedicating ourselves to the client 24 5 Dialogue with our stakeholders 40 6 Our emphasis on employees 46 7 Our environmental impact 54 8 Our contribution to society 60 Appendices Appendix 1 Key figures for 2012 68 Appendix 2 Basis for reporting 77 Appendix 3 Our stakeholders and most important topics of discussion 78 Appendix 4 Objectives and performance in 2012 80 Appendix 5 Glossary 84 4 chairman’s statement chairman’s message As a financial services provider, we want to be a better In our efforts to attract and retain first-rate, committed bank contributing to a better world. Prioritisation and employees, we pursued our goal of becoming a top-class choices are key to attaining our goal. We have therefore employer by following up on our people strategy. defined four focus areas in which we aim to secure a For example, we placed 1.2% more women in senior leadership position. We want to: management positions and 1.6% more in upper pursue sustainable business operations; middle-management positions in 2012. And we organised a put our clients’ interests centre stage and build ‘Do or Die-versity’ conference for over 400 participants from sustainable relationships; within and outside the bank, where we offered diversity use our financial expertise for the benefit of society; workshops and shared best practices. finance and invest for clients in a sustainable manner. We are firmly committed to putting our clients’ interests Sustainability and transparency are an integral part of our centre stage and building lasting relationships. Mortgage corporate strategy. Our primary challenge in the coming clients, for example, can expect assistance from our years will be to get our house fully in order on the Mortgage Care Team, which helps people having trouble measuring and reporting fronts. Given the multiple changes paying their mortgages set up a realistic personal financial ABN AMRO has experienced in recent years, we lost our plan. In this respect, we have started informing mortgage sustainability reporting systems, making it virtually clients sooner about new interest rate conditions and we impossible for us to monitor and report on our quantitative help them counter the impact of an expected shortfall. progress at this time. We are working hard to rebuild Should something go wrong, we address the issue these systems so that in the future we will be able to effectively; in fact, the Netherlands Authority for the provide full transparency about where we stand in relation Financial Markets rated us 4.2 on a scale of 1 to 5 with to our sustainability targets. regard to client complaints, up from 3.8 in 2011. Meanwhile, we continued to enhance transparency under In the meantime, we focused in 2012 on sustainable initiatives our bank-wide Plain Language project, giving clients the in several areas, a sampling of which I’ll highlight below. information they need – including product descriptions, terms and conditions – in understandable language. Although banking as such has a limited environmental impact, we are keen to minimise our footprint and to Our Growth & Innovation Desk, set up in 2012, helps fastshare the progress we have made. Starting close to growing companies in need of financing to do business home, our head office in Amsterdam was the first building sustainably. G&I specialists find financial investors for in use in the Netherlands to receive BREEAM certification these businesses who also have the expertise to help from the Dutch Green Building Council. BREEAM is the market their products and services successfully. world’s foremost environmental assessment method for buildings, so needless to say, we are proud to have As a major Dutch bank, we have a wealth of expertise received this award. in several fields, which we’re eager to share to help create 5 a better world. In this vein, we recently introduced the and look forward to pressing on with our efforts in the Philanthropy Advice service for private banking clients in years ahead. I believe we’re on the right track and, after the Netherlands who want to do more with their money reading this report, I hope you’ll agree. than just accumulate it. Clients can obtain advice on how We are always open to your feedback and ideas related to achieve their philanthropic aims while benefiting from to our effort to be a more sustainable bank and can be tax breaks, involving the next generation in financial reached at duurzaamheid@nl.abnamro.com. education, networking with peers and making a difference with their wealth. We also continued to offer the services of our financial coaches for start-ups and ran financial education programmes throughout the Netherlands. The ABN AMRO Foundation, meanwhile, organises a range of programmes in which staff can give back to the community by volunteering their time and expertise. This past year, for instance, during a Gerrit Zalm special week devoted to financial education, hundreds of Chairman of the Managing Board ABN AMRO employees taught primary school pupils how to handle money responsibly at schools throughout the Netherlands. ABN AMRO also sponsors various reading promotion programmes, including the Dutch Children’s Book Week. And the bank supports the Children’s BookCrossing project, under which we collect used children’s books from staff and clients and deliver them to schools and shelters throughout the Netherlands. Over 50% of our staff in the Netherlands were engaged in volunteer activities through the ABN AMRO Foundation in 2012. Our Sustainability Risk Policy, which we adopted in 2012, sets out the principles that define our approach to sustainability risk management and describes the conditions under which we engage with clients, suppliers and investors. The policy guides us in our efforts to identify, monitor and report on sustainability risks. To underscore our commitment to responsible business practices, we adopted an Exclusion List in 2012 stating activities and practices the bank refuses to engage in or promote based on ethical and sustainability standards. Another milestone took place in May, when we launched Seeds.nl, a crowdfunding platform that makes it possible for socially responsible businesses to attract small investors. We are the first bank to invest in crowdfunding. Clients can invest as little as EUR 50 and up to EUR 5,000 in these companies, and are also invited to contribute the expertise and ideas businesses need to grow and achieve their goals. As for our own goal of becoming a better bank contributing to a better world, I’m proud of the steps we took in 2012 6 our sustainability strategy our sustainability strategy 1 We at ABN AMRO have learned some valuable lessons from the financial crisis and are committed to regaining our clients’ trust. At the same time, we want to make a meaningful contribution to strengthening the financial system in the Netherlands and abroad, now and in the future. Additionally, various environmental, social, economic and political trends have implications for our bank and for our key stakeholders. We want to respond swiftly and effectively to these trends to ensure that we are well positioned to address risks and seize opportunities, to distinguish our bank from our peers, to inspire our people, to enhance stakeholder value and to make a difference to society. Against this background, we have mapped out a sustainBetter bank ability strategy that focuses on specific priority areas which will help us achieve our corporate strategy. Building Sustainable business operations on our approach to date, our strategy is designed to Although banking as such has a limited environmental achieve success both internally and externally: we aim to impact, we are keen to minimise our footprint and to create a better bank contributing to a better world. share the progress we have made. Our goal for the coming years is to steadily increase transparency about Our sustainability strategy is based on two pillars, each what we have – and have not – accomplished, and to of which consists of aspirations in two areas: introduce quantitative targets where possible. ABN AMRO has been through a few very eventful years during which Better bank we demerged operations from Royal Bank of Scotland We pursue sustainable business operations and merged with the former Fortis Bank Nederland, We put our clients’ interests centre stage and build making it very difficult for us to monitor and report on our sustainable relationships quantitative progress at this time. Now that we have completed the separation and integration, we can focus Better world on strengthening our sustainability governance structures, We use our financial expertise for the benefit of society management processes and monitoring and reporting We finance and invest for clients in a sustainable systems so that we will be increasingly able to measure manner and report on our progress on the sustainability front in quantitative terms. 7 A better bank contributing to a better world Better bank Better world Sustainable Clients’ interests centre Financial expertise Sustainable finance business stage and sustainable for the benefit and investment operations relationships of society services Another aspect of pursuing sustainable business operations Better world involves creating a company culture that promotes long-standing relationships with our stakeholders. To that Financial expertise for the benefit of society end, we have introduced, and are actively promoting, our We at ABN AMRO believe that putting our financial Business Principles, which translate our core values – expertise to work for society will help us in our efforts to Trusted, Professional and Ambitious – into guidelines for be a good corporate citizen. Under our Capital4Change behaviour in our day-to-day work. project, launched by Private Banking in 2011, we help high net worth clients in the Netherlands put their wealth to Clients’ interests centre stage and philanthropic use. Our socially responsible investment sustainable relationships products, philanthropy services and impact investing There are several ways in which we strive to put our services are growing in popularity, and we plan to heightclients’ interests centre stage at all times. First, we offer en our focus on these fields in the years ahead. them transparency in all their dealings with the bank. One of the lessons that emerged from the financial crisis As for our business clients, we intend to increasingly is that clients need to understand the financial products engage them in strategic conversations to help them they purchase in order to make well informed decisions understand the sustainability risks and opportunities in that are in their own best interests. We have therefore their industries and value chains. We believe in the simplified our product range and rewritten our product potential of social entrepreneurship and have therefore descriptions and conditions in clearly understandable teamed up with SocialEnterprise.nl, an initiative that aims language, and will continue to make improvements in to strengthen the position of social enterprises in the this area in the years ahead. Netherlands. And we aim to leverage our position as a business leader to promote the sustainability agenda Another way we look after our clients’ interests is by externally in the coming years, both in the Netherlands putting duty of care at the heart of our business, in part and abroad. by helping clients seize sustainability opportunities and manage sustainability risks. In the coming years, we will We also run a variety of initiatives through which we put continue to focus our efforts on engaging with client our financial expertise to good use. We partner locally organisations, reviewing client complaints and considering with a range of community organisations, offer financial best practices of our peers and in other sectors. coaching to clients in need of assistance and run financial 8 our sustainability strategy education programmes at primary and secondary In the years ahead, we will partner with internal and schools throughout the Netherlands. In collaboration external stakeholders in our efforts to develop, improve with ABN AMRO Foundation, we provide free business and implement our SRI policies and product offering. coaches to Qredits, an organisation that finances small To this end, we will identify bank-wide sustainability businesses in the Netherlands. Under this initiative, bank themes – such as clean technology investment – which employees voluntarily support a micro-entrepreneur for will underlie our product and service development in the one year, helping them run their companies and develop coming years. Energy, Commodities & Transportation valuable business skills. These are just a few ways that and Private Banking in particular will identify spearhead our employees give back to the community, and we plan products in these areas. Our goal is to generate new to continue these initiatives in the years ahead. sources of revenue by financing green growth sectors and solutions to sustainability challenges, while doing Sustainable finance and investment services our part to make a difference. As part of our commitment to creating a more sustainable supply chain, both our client acceptance and our credit proposal processes take into account ecological, social Inspiring and engaging and ethical considerations and our financing application process for certain industries includes an environmental our people: a two-way street impact assessment. Against this background, we engage our clients in an ongoing dialogue: rather than exclude Our aspirations can only be achieved if we have an companies that lag behind in terms of sustainability, our inspired, engaged workforce. To this end, we aim to be policy is to encourage them to make improvements, a top-class employer that attracts and retains highly provided that their efforts are adequately resourced and talented, socially committed people. We intend to achieve supported. We focus on sectors where exposure to this goal by offering management development candidates environmental and social risks is most evident, such as the opportunity to work on sustainability projects, by shipping. We are therefore a member of the Sustainable educating and encouraging staff to take part in socially Shipping Initiative, under which leading players in this responsible initiatives and by extending sustainability industry join forces with non-governmental organisations targets in our performance management systems to all (NGOs) to promote sustainable shipping practices. staff. We will also continue to engage our staff through the And we are a provider of the Green Award Incentive, work of ABN AMRO Foundation, our annual Sustainability which certifies seagoing vessels that achieve superior Days and the knowledge-sharing sessions we regularly standards of cleanliness and safety. We consider organise. Equally, we hope that our efforts to be a better compliance with sustainability standards to be a sign bank contributing to a better world will inspire and engage of sound management. our employees, allowing us to make a lasting difference in society. Our sustainable investment mandate is growing both at home and abroad. Here in the Netherlands, we are seeing solid growth in our socially responsible investment funds and are expanding our sustainable product range as well as our own investments. In this vein, the ABN AMRO Managing Board has approved the establishment of a proprietary EUR 10 million Social Impact Investment Fund, financed by the bank. Elsewhere, the two sustainable investment funds for Private Banking clients set up by Bethmann Bank, our private bank in Germany, got off to a strong start and grew significantly in 2012. And we introduced sustainable criteria for Neuflize OBC Monétaire, a money market fund in France which manages assets worth EUR 2 billion. 9 Read more about it The table below shows where we discuss our results elsewhere in this report. Strategy Results in 2012 Sustainable business operations Chapters 2, 3, 5 and 7 Clients’ interests centre stage and sustainable relationships Chapters 4 and 5 Financial expertise for the benefit of society Chapter 8 Sustainable finance and investment services Chapters 3 and 4 Inspiring and engaging our people: a two-way street Chapter 6 10 embedding sustainability in our organisation embedding sustainability in our organisation 2 Achieving sustainable operations is a first important step toward becoming a better bank. The keys to achieving this are good corporate governance and doing business honestly, with zero tolerance for bribery and corruption. These are issues we scrutinise, review and improve constantly. 2.1 Corporate governance ABN AMRO co-authored. Based on the UK Guidance on Board Effectiveness, the guidelines are intended to help Good corporate governance and effective supervision are the Supervisory and Managing Boards function and vital to ABN AMRO’s success and continuity. The members cooperate as effectively as possible. of the Managing Board are responsible for the bank’s management and share joint responsibility for all the Additionally, the Managing Board and Central Works decisions they take. The Supervisory Board oversees the Council (CWC) are working to renew employee participation, Managing Board and the general course of business at with the aim of achieving a form more in keeping with the ABN AMRO, and provides Managing Board members with bank in today’s world and with enhanced staff involvement. support and advice. In performing their duties, members Board members and employees are partners in that of both Boards focus on the interests of the bank and all conversation, each promoting the organisation’s interests its stakeholders, including ABN AMRO’s clients and through their own role. Early and intensive collaboration employees, but also society as a whole. will take the quality of decision-making to an even higher level. The CWC Working Group responsible for renewing Integrity, transparency and accountability are the key participation contributed to that step forward in 2012, and elements for us of good corporate governance, which is the initiative will be pursued further in 2013, with the goal a requirement for realising our ambition of being a trusted of introducing the renewed structure in early 2014, at the and professional partner for all our stakeholders. beginning of their new term. The Supervisory Board and Managing Board therefore highly value the importance of good corporate; ABN AMRO We introduced the Business Principles in 2012, reflecting wants to set a good example in this respect. The Managing the importance we place on behaviour and culture. Board embraced the Good Corporate Governance policy The Principles set out the way we want to deal with our proposal in 2012, prompting several specific improvement clients, each other as colleagues, and the community initiatives. in which we operate. They are based on our core values – Trusted, Professional and Ambitious – and guide our One significant improvement is the planned application conduct as a bank and the choices we make. The Business of the Guidance on Board Effectiveness in 2013, which Principles have been introduced at every level of our 11 organisation in both the Netherlands and beyond. 2.2 Ethics and anti-bribery Employees discuss these together by, for instance, linking & corruption the rules of conduct with dilemmas in everyday practice. The Business Principles are also an important component ABN AMRO attaches great importance to ethical business of the performance management system within the bank. operations, part of which includes a zero-tolerance policy As such, sustainability and diversity have been integrated toward bribery and corruption. Every form of bribery, in the performance targets of the Managing Board and corruption and fraud is prohibited. Management Group (made up of senior managers from all parts of the organisation). Our bribery and anti-corruption policy is the vehicle through which we comply with laws and regulations in There was a strong focus on diversity within the bank in 2012. this area. The policy applies to every part of the bank The proportion of women in upper middle-management worldwide and is linked to our gifts regulation policy, positions rose by 1.6% points in the past year from 20 to which specifies under what exceptional circumstances it 22%. The proportion of women at senior level (16%) fell is permissible to accept or give gifts on behalf of the bank. slightly short of our ambitious target of 17%, but was There are a number of exceptions, all of them special nonetheless 1.2% higher than in 2011. cases requiring management permission and the exercise of caution. More information on the bank’s governance structure and the qualifications and expertise of the members of the Failure to comply with the anti-corruption policy naturally Managing Board and Supervisory Board is provided on has consequences: measures may be taken under our website, abnamro.com. The Annual Report, which is industrial law or internally, or the relationship with the also available on our website, includes details of the client or supplier may be terminated. remuneration of and affiliations held by the members of the Managing Board and Supervisory Board. The bank began a series of activities in 2012 to further embed this policy, including an explicit focus in internal Our Business Principles communications and providing international training in this area. Our stance on bribery and corruption was incorporated in the roll-out of the Business Principles, and I aim to provide my client with the best solutions a global risk analysis was performed. I take responsibility ABN AMRO does not offer financial contributions or payment in kind to political parties, politicians or any I only take risks I understand related institutions. The bank does, however, participate in various public policy development committees, such as the Dutch Banking Association (NVB), and has a I am committed to Government Affairs department, which closely monitors sustainable business practices external political developments in Europe and the Netherlands and shares the insights gained with the bank. I am a passionate professional There was an extra focus in 2012 on procedures relating I build relationships through collaboration to advertising, promotion and sponsorship, with training provided to members of staff engaged in these activities. Special attention will also be paid in 2013 to compliance procedures for marketing rules and to encouraging transparent and comprehensible communication. Training activities in this area are scheduled to continue in 2013. Dialogue as important as decision-making “Our employees will genuinely help shape bank policy.” 13 S ustainability can seem a little abstract and hard to explain at times. But not so for dialogue that our bank can renew itself, ABN AMRO Supervisory Board member Rik van Slingelandt: “A bank has to maintain because what’s needed ultimately is a a moral and ethical discussion with all its stakeholders about the dilemmas you change in mentality.” encounter together. And you then need to ask yourself, ‘shall I do this or not?’ Should we fund a company, say, that supplies jeeps to the Burundian military? You have to weigh that up carefully: will the army use them to help reconstruct the country and improve people’s Squeezing out security? Or will they be used to crush civil protest?” complexity practical guidelines for good corporate Employee participation is a specific example governance for everyone at the bank. of that new approach. “In future, our Because there’s a difference between employees will genuinely help shape bank corporate governance and good corporate policy,” Gwendolyn van Tunen confirms. governance. ABN AMRO is firmly convinced This is illustrated not only by active that codes and rules will only take you consultation, but also by Gerrit Zalm’s In so far.” Dialogue Sessions, which have been held for a few years now. The Supervisory Board is talking to bank staff too, including a A new bank debate that Gwendolyn van Tunen and Rik van Slingelandt held with 50 trainees. “Young Gwendolyn van Tunen, Chief Governance people like that hold up a mirror to you,” she Officer at ABN AMRO, has worked at the says. “They told us in no uncertain terms bank for many years and, as Company that they think the bank is too bureaucratic Secretary, was closely involved in the and that reporting lines are too long. And integration. “There was a point during that they’re right: we have to squeeze the process at which we relied heavily on complexity out of our system, our products Jurisprudence legislation and codes,” she says. “We had and how we think, and get back to simplicity to, obviously: it was a legal requirement. and our clients’ interests.” Dialogue is essential, Rik van Slingelandt But we were pitched during that constantly thinks, if you want to arrive at properly evolving situation into a new bank, in which thought-out decisions and good practical we had to find our feet. We’re past that examples: “We’re going to work hard in the stage now, and although we still have to period ahead on a kind of ‘jurisprudence’, base ourselves on laws and codes, we’ve although you shouldn’t interpret that literally. also created our own structure and lots of What we mean by ‘jurisprudence’ is clearly initiatives have sprung up that allow us to establishing for ourselves what choices keep up a dialogue with our clients, staff we make and why. We can then draw up and other stakeholders. It’s through that ‘In Dialogue’ with Gerrit Zalm Employees from every part of the bank can sign up for a dialogue session with Gerrit Zalm. Up to eight people can take part each time, so that everyone gets chance to express their thoughts. The sessions are held once every two weeks. 14 applying the sustainability policy to our operations applying the sustainability policy to our operations 3 ABN AMRO applies guidelines for environmental, social and ethical risks when assessing clients, applications for loans and other transactions. Together, these guidelines form the bank’s environmental, social and ethical policy (ESE Policy for short). We aligned this policy in 2011 with our core tasks – finance and investment services – and made further efforts in 2012 to apply it more consistently within our everyday business operations. That brings us a step closer to our goal of being a better bank contributing to a better world. 3.1 How do we apply the ESE Policy? Lending procedure The review of our ESE Policy for lending was formally Exclusion List approved in 2012. New features of the policy include the Our Exclusion List, which sets out the kind of activities obligation to determine and investigate the sustainability ABN AMRO is unwilling to support, was formally risk for every commercial loan application. established in March 2012. It applies to both existing and new clients and will cover all the bank’s services, with The following figure illustrates how the ESE Policy is to be the exception of securities transactions on behalf of implemented within the credit process. The aim of the clients, to which our investment policy applies (see process is to identify sustainability risks, for which we section 3.8). The Exclusion List includes three categories screen all commercial loan applications. of activity: 1. We begin by determining whether the application Activities that undermine efforts to conserve the forms a potential risk (Step 1). environment. 2. Having provisionally rated that risk as low, medium Activities that no longer meet with current standards or high, we determine whether the underlying in the fields of shipping, exports, asbestos, hazardous sustainability risks are manageable and whether the waste and pharmaceuticals. transaction meets ABN AMRO’s standards (Step 2). Activities that are unethical, exploitative or abusive. 3. The higher the potential risk, the better the client’s performance has to be in social and environmental To view the complete Exclusion List and for more terms, with particular reference to the transaction in information on the implementation of our ESE Policy, see question (Step 3). abnamro.com > EN > Sustainability > Risk Management. 4. That does not mean, incidentally, that we do not accept transactions with a higher risk exposure: our aim is to clarify potential risks, so that we can determine whether they are realistic and can be adequately 15 2012 A Controversial Weapons list was drawn up based on our Exclusion List. In 2012 all related positions of our clients in the Netherlands were closed. A sustainability screening was added to the credit application process for corporate clients. The team of sustainability experts at ECT was enlarged. 1,170 RESEARCH Sustainability experts examined 1,170 additional transactions in 2012. 16 applying the sustainability policy to our operations Process 1. Risk determination Tools Screening by embargoes Exclusion List Determine sustainability risk Global Possible ESE impact sector Sustainability Possible ESE impact country issues Index Stakeholder attention (transaction/client) and transaction features 2. Analysis Low risk Average risk High risk Questionnaires No further action Concise sustainability Full sustainability risk risk analysis analysis Industry policy Gap analysis client Gap analysis client versus transaction versus transaction risk Other tools 3. Approval At/above par Below par Standard conditions Conditions and exception Action plans Improvement measures Or negative advice 4. Monitoring and reporting At/above par Below par (average risk) Below par (high risk) Format Standard Progress report Progress report of reporting Supervisory report managed. Effective discussions and exchange of Update on project finance: information with our clients provides both sides with Application of Equator Principles substantial added value in this area (Step 4). The Equator Principles once again constituted a binding condition for the approval of all project finance supplied by Update on OECD guidelines ABN AMRO. This is ensured by the systematic application The OECD guidelines for multinational enterprises were of our Project Finance Policy and the Equator Principles. revised in 2012. These guidelines are endorsed by A total of 15 new project finance deals in emerging governments and apply to ABN AMRO and a substantial markets were screened in 2012 for their compliance with proportion of our clients. It is also increasingly important the principles. The Equator Principles consist of three in this context that our internationally operating clients categories: can demonstrate that they sufficiently manage the environmental, social and ethical impacts of their business Category A: projects with potentially significant operations. We consider their sustainability approach to adverse social or environmental impacts that are be an indicator of management quality. diverse, irreversible or unprecedented. Category B: projects with potentially limited adverse Update on extension of standard credit application social or environmental impacts that are site-specific, form for corporate clients largely reversible and readily addressed through The standard credit application form for corporate clients mitigation measures. was extended in November 2012 to include a section Category C: projects with minimal or no social or on sustainability risks. Applications will now be screened environmental impacts. on even more sustainability criteria and the identification There were no projects in 2012 with a potentially signifiof potential risks will be embedded in the regular lending cant adverse social or environmental impact (Category A) process. Sustainability criteria will also be incorporated and twelve projects with a potentially limited adverse in our services to SMEs in 2013. impact (category B). The number of projects in high17 income/OECD countries was nine. Details of the results policy is not yet complete, we have decided to adopt a regarding the Equator Principles can be found in Appendix 1 cautious approach to future funding of shale gas extraction of this Sustainability Report. and that each application in this regard will be screened separately for the time being in the light of best practices. Category We operate an exceptionally restrictive policy toward Country classification A B C Total nuclear energy, and we are provisionally excluding all oil and gas exploration within the Arctic region. The new Emerging markets 6 6 policy will also have a heightened focus on the themes High-income/OECD 6 3 9 of human rights and water. One of the questions we will Total 0 12 3 15 raise again is whether we need to relax our policy on Category A – potentially significant adverse impact; Category B – potentially limited lending to large conglomerates that generate only a adverse impact; Category C – minimal or no impact very small portion of their income from defence-related activities. Payments and deposits In the area of payments and deposits, we perform extra Review of ESE Policy for the defence industry screening as standard of business and retail clients active ABN AMRO has adopted a restrictive policy toward the in industries with potential sustainability risks to determine defence industry. We plan to call on external experts to whether those risks comply with ABN AMRO’s industry assist us in our policy review for this industry in 2013. and ESE policies. 3.3 How do we implement 3.2 Future review of the ESE Policy our ESE Policy? ABN AMRO works with sustainability guidelines tailored We work according to the bank’s Three Lines of Defence to each industry and we constantly monitor our industry (3LoD) principle when implementing our ESE Policy. policy to take account of changes taking place in our This means that responsibilities for managing the clients’ businesses, in the market and in society as a sustainability risk are spread across three ‘lines’ within whole. We prepared the ground in 2012 for three policy our company, namely: reviews that will be implemented in 2013: Review of Equator Principles Line 1: Relationship managers determine the Review of ESE Policy for energy industry sustainability risk associated with clients and transactions. Review of ESE Policy for defence industry They ascertain whether the clients and transactions comply with our ESE Policy. Review of Equator Principles ABN AMRO played an active part in the discussion Line 2: The central Sustainability department formulates concerning the review of the Equator Principles. The revised the ESE Policy for each industry, which states the environguidelines – the Equator Principles III – are expected to mental, social and ethical criteria clients, finance deals come into force in March 2013. We will adjust our project and investments have to meet. The Group Risk Committee finance policy and the application of the Equator Principles establishes the policy. The only body that can approve accordingly, taking account of the revised Principles’ exceptions to this policy is the Managing Board; this expanded scope. ABN AMRO applies the Principles occurred once in 2012. Alongside industry-specific criteria, rigorously to all project finance deals. Other forms of there are other generally applicable criteria. The department finance will also be screened against the Equator Principles monitors clients and transactions that represent a high once the principles have been revised. level of risk to ensure that the ESE Policy is being properly applied. Where the risk level is. Review of ESE Policy for the energy industry The new ESE Policy for the energy industry was drawn Line 3: Lastly, the Audit department assess whether the up in consultation with clients, experts and employees. model is being correctly applied. It will be finalised in the first quarter of 2013. Although the 18 applying the sustainability policy to our operations Application of sustainability policy within ECT The Energy, Commodities & Transportation (ECT) business since 2012. What’s more, ECT clients are now subject to unit introduced sustainability tools in 2012 for virtually all the compulsory screening for sustainability risks during the industries in which it is active, further integrating sustainability acceptance process. We think it is important in these in ECT’s day-to-day business operations. The tools enable industries in particular that our specialists are close to relationship managers to determine the sustainability risks the business. The Sustainability department at ECT was represented by a client or transaction. Virtually all the therefore strengthened in 2012 to provide effective support instruments were brought into use in the course of 2012. A team to relationship managers active in these industries on a of sustainability experts inside ECT supervised the process, daily basis. by training and coaching relationship managers and commercial staff. The table below provides a review of the number of ECT clients and loans screened for sustainability risks per To embed sustainability in its business operations structurally, industry. The total number of clients and activities screened ECT has focused on sustainability in all credit proposals by ECT in 2012 was 979. Industry Client acceptance Credit Total Agricultural commodities 109 99 208 Energy commodities 132 86 218 Metal commodities 121 92 213 Energy 81 69 150 Transport 131 28 159 Other sectors 14 17 31 Total 588 391 979 To make a solidly founded assessment of the risks of 3.5 How we integrate sustainability credit transactions, we developed the Global Sustainability into our business operations Risk Index, which indicates the level and types of risk for each country and sub-sector. The relationship manager We work hard to integrate sustainability effectively applies the index to determine the actual social and and consistently into our business operations. A number environmental risk a transaction represents. He or she of developments are set out below: can then use a questionnaire to ascertain whether the An annual risk rating is formulated and taken into transaction meets the internal guidelines and whether account when determining the country risk. This rating the client is adequately managing the identified risks. also forms the basis of the ABN AMRO Global Sustainability Risk Index. Sustainability is represented in the Operational Risk 3.4 Results of supplementary research Oversight Committee. A direct representative from the Sustainability department regularly attends in In 2012, the risk experts at the central Sustainability person as an advisor. department screened the content of 191 applications Each business unit’s management team performs for finance with a potentially higher sustainability risk. an annual strategic risk analysis, in which sustainability These related chiefly to transactions in agriculture, the is a permanent element. There are supplementary defence industry (and its suppliers), the energy industry questions, for instance, to determine whether and mining. Ten transactions and/or clients were rejected, sustainability is being steadily integrated in day-to-day while approval was granted subject to supplementary service provision, and if so, how. conditions in 37 cases (see table). 19 Number Approvals Qualified Rejections Pending Withdrawn approvals Mining & metals 42 33 8 1 0 0 Oil & gas 30 17 9 1 0 3 Agricultural commodities 22 16 3 1 0 2 Defence 32 20 4 4 1 3 Chemical 9 5 1 0 3 0 Forestry 6 4 1 0 0 1 Energy and utilities 14 11 2 0 1 0 Manufacturing industry 9 7 1 1 0 0 Others 27 17 8 2 0 0 Total 191 130 37 10 5 9 Mining in Siberia: a step too far? One of our commercial clients approached us a few months ago But we were also aware that our client had expressed a desire with a request to finance the purchase of a stake in mines located to bring the mines up to international environmental, social in Russia. That presented us with a dilemma. After a brief study and ethical standards – partly with a view to securing project of the state of the mines and several interviews with managers finance. We therefore discussed potential solutions with the from the selling company, we rapidly concluded that the project client, and came up together with a step-by-step plan that will did not meet our ESE standards. considerably improve the mines’ sustainability profile in a short space of time. ABN AMRO’s sustainability experts provide advice read on our website what our criteria are for responsible during the development of new products and services. service provision (abnamro.com > Sustainability > Risk Commercial business units report on their risks in an Management). We made a start in that respect in 2012 integrated way, with sustainability risks given an explicit by providing greater transparency about our sustainability place in those reports. The bank’s sustainability experts policies. This was achieved by setting out our environhave therefore been given an important voice in mental, social and ethical standards on our website for embedding sustainability in the different parts of the sensitive industries like agriculture, mining and energy. business. Our views on subjects like human rights and animaltesting are presented there too. Enhanced transparency Our internal auditors performed a theme audit in 2012 to of this kind also enables us to meet the sustainability scrutinise implementation of the sustainability policy, requirements that some of our clients impose on their resulting in a number of proposals for further strengthening preferred service providers. the implementation process. 3.7 Focus on human rights 3.6 Increasing transparency of ESE Policy Human rights are assuming an increasingly emphatic place in the way we do business, influenced and inspired Transparency and sustainability are inseparably linked. by international developments. We are therefore pleased It’s very important to us that our existing and new clients, that the new UN Guiding Principles for Business and our employees and anyone else who is interested can Human Rights look set to win general acceptance. 20 applying the sustainability policy to our operations Sustainability department The Sustainability department is ABN AMRO’s central authority Reporting sustainability results for ethical, social and environmental (ESE) policy and was Stimulating and facilitating dialogue on sustainability significantly expanded in 2012. It is based at our head office in Supervising sustainable product initiatives Amsterdam and reports to Managing Board member Carolien Supervising internal sustainability initiatives such as Princen. CO2-reduction Informing colleagues about the bank’s sustainability strategy The Sustainability department is responsible for: Formulating sustainability policy, including sustainability risks ABN AMRO also employs sustainability experts throughout its Evaluating and advising on sustainability risks in connection organisation, coordinated from the Sustainability department. with applications for loans, investments, deposits and cash Each part of the bank reports its own sustainability results, management which contributes to buy-in across ABN AMRO. Now that these rules have been enshrined in the OECD light good practical examples in the areas of human rights, guidelines, the Equator Principles and ISO 26000, a due diligence and risk management. common language and responsibility has been established, through which we can further pursue our The theme of human rights has been placed on the commitment to protect human rights. agenda for client meetings. Of the 191 high-risk applications for finance (see section 3.5), the risk experts at the central ABN AMRO has aligned its Human Rights Statement Sustainability department focused in 114 cases explicitly with the new guidelines, making a firm statement of our on human rights in relation to the client’s activities. intent to observe and implement them. We have not yet We cooperated with clients in several cases to get a been able, however, to determine the full and precise clearer picture and further investigate the situation. implications of the UN Guiding Principles for financial services providers. It is nevertheless clear that performing due diligence in a human rights context, as described in 3.8 Our investment policy the principles, will also have consequences for our credit and client acceptance procedures. We launched our Socially Responsible Investing (SRI) activities with new momentum in 2012, under the umbrella We talk to clients and NGOs whenever we or they of the ‘Capital4change’ theme. The bank drew up a list of suspect that human rights violations are occurring in the businesses involved in the manufacture of controversial flows of goods in which our clients are active. It is our weapons to which ABN AMRO no longer wishes to responsibility to look closely at our clients’ supply chains. provide services to our investment clients. Although the We can’t solve these problems by ourselves, as they involvement of our clients in the Netherlands with the frequently lie far beyond our scope to act. But we can businesses in question was already extremely limited, it ensure that we are as thoroughly informed as possible was eliminated entirely in 2012 in consultation with the and that we help find potential solutions in collaboration clients in question. Investment in funds is not, incidentally, with the parties concerned, our clients and other staketaken into account in this regard. holders. Those solutions often have to be pursued locally, and it is precisely for that reason that we try to contribute ABN AMRO is also developing an investment policy in as much as possible to the national and international which a ‘grey list’ and a ‘green list’ will be compiled, in debate on human rights and business. We take part in the addition to the Controversial Weapons list. The grey list Global Corporate Community of Practice for Business & consists of businesses involved with serious controversies. Human Rights project, which was set up in 2012 to ABN AMRO no longer wishes to include businesses of support the remit of the UN Working Group on Human this kind among its investment products and will also Rights and Transnational Corporations. The aim is to highno longer actively draw clients’ attention to them. For a 21 business to be placed on this list, a report is submitted by external experts, following which the Investment & Engagement Committee (IEC; see section 4.1.3) carries out an evaluation and makes a decision. Businesses can only be removed from the grey list following improvements to their operations. The green list, lastly, will include businesses that ABN AMRO will actively recommend to retail clients. It will become available to a broad group of these clients in 2013 for the first time. ABN AMRO has offered its Private Banking clients a Sustainable Investment Mandate since 2004, which is also used by the Chairman of the Managing Board. 3.9 Our plans for the future Our plans for 2013 include: Incorporating sustainability criteria into the evaluation of all our commercial loans Review of policy for the energy and defence industries Application of the revised Equator Principles Enhanced management information on sustainability screening of clients and transactions Enhanced research into human rights compliance by clients and regarding transactions, in accordance with the revised OECD guidelines Further embedding of sustainability in our ‘know your client’ procedures Finalisation of the investment policy Implementation of the grey lists (controversial businesses in the field of sustainability) and green lists (sustainable businesses) Incorporation of sustainability risk in the credit procedure for corporate clients Incorporation of sustainability risk in the credit procedure for SMEs Ship recycling is still far from standard practice “It’s very much a niche market, but with substantial added value for companies that want to operate in a socially responsible way.” 23 T he shipping industry is essential to our economy: cars, grain, fruit juice, coffee “The bank can play a major part in making – pretty much everything we use in our daily lives is transported by ship. But those ship-breaking more sustainable. By insisting vessels are eventually broken up in ways that can be extremely harmful to people and on an inventory of hazardous materials, the environment. ABN AMRO is convinced that active engagement is the only appropriate for instance, when financing a new ship. way to improve things at industry level – in the shipping industry, and across sectors, We can also strengthen each other’s locally and internationally. The bank also wants to get involved in sustainable solutions. position by pooling information: when Tom Peter Blankestijn is Managing Director of the Sea2Cradle company, which specialises ABN AMRO gets involved in the debate, in recycling ships. “ABN AMRO can play a major part in making ship-breaking more for instance, we can back them up with our sustainable.” expertise.” As of the first quarter of next year, ABN AMRO will make an inventory Tackling unsustainable ship-breaking is of hazardous materials a precondition for complicated, because the process is spread funding. over different countries and fleets, and vessels can change hands several times en route to demolition. Effective legislation, both national and international, will be an important part of the solution, but it’s a slow process and one made harder by conflicting interests. Bangladesh, for instance, ought to protect its citizens’ employment rights, yet ship-breaking there is a significant source of income on which many depend. Although ABN AMRO takes the view that simply withdrawing funding for shipping is not a realistic option, the bank is fully aware of its increasing responsibility for the overall value chain. We are therefore concentrating on funding newer and more sustainable ships and are not involved in any way with ship-breaking. To that end, ABN AMRO’s Exclusion List explicitly prohibits the funding simple tools and lack any kind of protection, of any activities that contravene the Basel exposing themselves to severe risk of injury Convention. We also apply sustainability and contamination. criteria to all our shipping company clients and screen every credit proposal on that basis. “Recycling is still far from standard practice, partly because it’s more expensive, and because there’s no international legislation Sustainable as yet to make sustainable ship-breaking compulsory,” Tom Peter Blankestijn ship-breaking explains. All the same, his company has now broken up more than 70 vessels in a At present, a mere 6% of all ships are responsible way. “It’s very much a niche broken up sustainably. The most commonly market, but one with substantial added used method is to beach obsolete cargo value for companies that do want to operate vessels on the coast of countries like India sustainably.” and Bangladesh. Local people – men, women and children – then swarm over the Blankestijn thinks that working with ship to dismantle it. In many cases, they use ABN AMRO could bring new opportunities: 24 dedicating ourselves to the client dedicating ourselves to the client 4 ABN AMRO’s ambition is to be a better bank contributing to a better world. Retail & Private Banking and Commercial & Merchant Banking help achieve that by putting their clients centre stage, through the sustainable and responsible products and services they offer, and in their day-to-day business operations. 4.1 Retail & Private Banking We place great importance on cost transparency. In the Netherlands, for instance, we have introduced an all-in fee 4.1.1 A better bank: clients’ interests first for discretionary portfolio management. That way, clients The client’s interests must come first at ABN AMRO in know precisely where they stand. If they prefer a different everything we do. We have our own set of moral criteria, service, they can see on our site what it will cost them. for instance, with which we assess existing and new In anticipation of new legislation, the advisory costs for products. The kind of questions we ask include: What taking out a mortgage are also presented separately. value does this product add for the client? How transparent is it? What are the costs for the client? Is the product We want to tell our clients a clear story, and that includes appropriate for the client? And will it contribute to the way we design our investment advice. In addition to sustainability and a long-term relationship? In this way, return and investment goals, the advisor also pays explicit we actively respond to society’s demand for transparency attention during client meetings to risk management, so and clarity. we can determine with our individual clients what level of risk they find acceptable in pursuing their goals. Other initiatives enhance that transparency too. We write our letters, product terms and conditions, offers That kind of personal, careful approach doesn’t just apply and other texts in plain language. We also adapted our to investing: helping clients get a clear view of their overall website this year. In the annual, worldwide ranking of the financial situation is more important than ever. With a websites of 40 leading asset managers and private banks, depressed housing market in the Netherlands and falling our Private Bank’s website was deemed to be the best. property prices, the phenomenon of negative equity The study focused on ease of use, content quality, contact – where the value of the house is less than the mortgage – opportunities and interactivity. Our abnamromeespierson. is increasing. ABN AMRO actively approaches mortgage nl site scored especially highly on information about costs clients who might be confronted with negative equity or and fees, and the performance of products and services. an interest-rate shock, because the interest rate they pay The study revealed that many other private banking is lower than the current market rate. The monthly costs websites don’t provide similar transparency. for these clients will increase when their fixed-interest period comes to an end. We take stock of the mortgage 25 ABN AMRO offered financial coaching to young people and the elderly. Just under 800 employees took In 2012, 55 employees took part in part in the Plain Language course Kids in Bizz; 653 employees gave at the end of 2012. lessons in how to handle money at primary schools. A B C A! ABN AMRO introduced entrepreneurs in search of capital to its network of 500 investors. ABN AMRO wants to encourage sustainable enterprise. The bank was a founding partner of Social Enterprise NL in 2012. 26 dedicating ourselves to the client situation with the client, and look for potential solutions. ABN AMRO donates two euros for every newly opened That allows appropriate steps to be taken in good time. youth growth account to Dance4life, an international We also support our clients proactively with a team of organisation that works with young people to halt the certified financial coaches, who advise them and help worldwide spread of HIV and AIDS. them organise or rearrange their financial affairs to stop The Generation Next Academy is where Private Banking them getting into difficulty. Clients can turn to our prepares the adult children of private banking clients Mortgage Care Team for specific assistance in this area. to take future responsibility for their parents’ wealth. We picked up a signal that parents consider it important Telling a clear story also means specifically aligning our that their wealth should be passed on responsibly to service provision to the target group. That’s why we have: the next generation. What they want is a balance Services and information tailored to retired people, between preserving that wealth and the opportunity to enabling us to build a sustainable client relationship put their money to work for personal and social goals. with this group. Examples include online banking The Academy offers a wide-ranging programme to that workshops and a special information bus. Retired end, varying from technical workshops on investment ABN AMRO employees teach other retirees at the and wealth transfer to workshops on collecting art workshops how to take full advantage of the convenience and charitable giving. This is the fifth year in which we and benefits of Internet Banking. Participants get to ask have offered the programme, with a total of over a questions, and there is plenty of opportunity to practise. thousand (young) adults taking part so far. One of the The special bus, meanwhile, is a mobile interactive main benefits for participants is that they can meet information centre focusing on modern banking. Clients contemporaries with similar questions in a trusted can find an answer there to questions like: What exactly environment. is an ‘app’? What can I do with it, and how does it work? They can also find out about mobile and online Our pursuit of sustainability in the form of recycling is also banking. Clients discover the benefits on the spot of expressed in less obvious areas for the bank. When the digital invoices, paying via iDEAL, contact-free payment, new corporate clothing line was introduced, 6,000 old communicating with the Webcare team via social media, garments were collected by Salvation Army ReShare. and much more besides. To raise awareness of these In collaboration with the We Beat the Mountain foundation, and other initiatives, ABN AMRO supports the national we are now looking at possible ways of reusing that campaign, ‘You’re never too old to learn’. clothing in a creative way. We Beat the Mountain is part of We’re also committed to helping our young clients learn the worldwide movement to reduce the mountain of about money. We want to teach them in a surprising waste. The foundation sells We Beat the Mountain and fun way how to organise their finances judiciously. products via its open, online Trash Platform, which focuses We’ve developed various initiatives for that purpose, on waste and design. including the launch of the Dutch financial website Money (https://extra.abnamro.nl/geld/). Aimed at kids 4.1.2 A better world: products and services aged between eight and eleven, the site has games, It’s very important to us to work with our clients to videos and quizzes. According to the independent achieve a better world. We do so by offering tailored Nibud foundation, which provides households with advice and services in this area. Our activities form part budget advice, Money is the most complete financial of the Capital4Change initiative and consist of: education site for primary pupils. It also fits in perfectly Philanthropy Advice with the primary school course ‘Be a Hero with your Impact investing Money’ and the recently launched ABN AMRO Socially Responsible Investing ‘Jongerengroeirekening’ (youth growth account) – the only current and savings account in the Netherlands Service provision is focused on the client segments at specially designed for parents who want to teach their Retail & Private Banking. children step by step how to manage their cash. Parents themselves decide what their child is and is not permitted to do. In this way, children learn as they go how to handle money and about banking matters. 27 Philanthropy Advice The amounts involved ranged between EUR 75,000 and The bank recently began to offer philanthropy advice to its EUR 3 million. private banking clients in the Netherlands. This service responds to a need felt by wealthy individuals to contribute ABN AMRO also approved the creation of its own Social more strategically and proactively to good causes. They Impact Investment Fund in 2012. Through this fund, the want to do more with their money than simply accumulate bank itself invests in socially responsible businesses – in wealth. They want to give while they’re still alive, involving the first instance, exclusively in the Netherlands. We intend their children in the process and passing on their values. to play an active part in this way in the development of By providing advice in the field of philanthropy, we are impact investment. The fund pools the expertise present fulfilling our promise at ABN AMRO MeesPierson to focus within ABN AMRO and deploys it on behalf of individual on the client rather than on his or her wealth. In addition businesses. We also pursue broad cooperation with other to advice, we offer information and financial solutions for leading organisations in this market. strategic philanthropy. The benefit to our clients is that they get a clear picture of the charities that suit them best. GreenLoans – an initiative of ABN AMRO subsidiary They can then decide the extent to which they want themALFAM Consumer Credit – has also been developed selves and their families to be involved in the chosen especially for retail clients. GreenLoans is a niche player charities, and what form that should take. We help our that finances green investments like solar panels. clients achieve the most favourable structure to support The loans themselves are financed in turn by sustainable the charity in tax terms too. To provide inspiration, we offer funds, offering clients a low rate of interest, which is a platform through which they can network and moreover tax-deductible. The loans are offered not only online but also via business partners like Essent and the Impact investing homeowners’ association Vereniging Eigen Huis which We further reinforced our involvement in 2012 with impact offer financing to their clients. In this way, GreenLoans investing – also known as ‘social impact investment’. will contribute to energy conservation and a sustainable Social impact investment is about funding companies society. that primarily pursue a social goal based on a financially independent and often innovative business model. These Sustainability is an important element in our consumer sustainable companies pursue both social improvements campaigns too. As part of one special offer, for instance, and financial returns. Impact investing embraces the full clients taking out a home contents policy were offered spectrum of companies, investors and organisations a solar-powered phone charger at a sharp discount. committed to responsible investment. We also developed impact investing initiatives outside We add value here by bringing together supply and demand, the Netherlands. Neuflize OBC, for instance, has been sustainable entrepreneurs and potential investors. In the cooperating with Babyloan – France’s first community activities that arise from this, a positive contribution to oriented microcredit website. Neuflize OBC is not only the community is more important than the financial return. a shareholder, but is acting as advisor too. Our French ABN AMRO has undertaken the following initiatives in private bank wants to play an active part in microfinance this field: and is therefore in discussion with a credit provider for whom the bank might act as guarantor and whose Via Informal Investment Services (IIS), ABN AMRO services it can bring to the attention of its Institutions MeesPierson makes its network of investors available & Charities clients. Neuflize OBC also invests in the to businesses looking for capital. The companies that ‘associative bonds’ issued by the NGO ACTED. ABN AMRO approach us come from all sectors. We have detected signed a global partnership in September 2012 with the growing interest on the part of investors in recent years in Centre for Social Investment (CSI) – a leading research businesses that generate not only a financial but also a institute in the field of international charitable organisations social return, and so we are bringing sustainable enterprises at the University of Heidelberg. The agreement means to the attention of prospective investors more and more Private Banking will provide financial support for innovative frequently. We acted as mediator in 2012 for companies research into high-impact philanthropy in social, educational in areas like food, fair trade, energy and micro-credit. and environmentally related projects. Thanks to this 28 dedicating ourselves to the client cooperation, clients, prospects and our own employees the UN Global Compact. An approach for screening bonds, can access the CSI’s expertise through tailored workinvestment funds and certain other investment products shops, training courses, case studies and specialist is also being developed, and we aim to introduce positive publications. The partnership will also further strengthen ‘best-in-class’ screening alongside negative screening by the services and advice we provide to the Institutions the end of 2013, to highlight the most sustainable choice & Charities segment. in each category. The exclusion of businesses on our Controversial Weapons list is being carried through far We supported other international initiatives too in 2012. into our product offering. Businesses of this kind may We were the main sponsor, for instance, of the Impact no longer even be purchased online or via our Advice Days, organised by PYMWYMIC (Put Your Money Where & Service Centres, and suppliers of investment mandates Your Mouth Is Community) – a community of families, are instructed to remove them from the mandates they philanthropists and individual investors who help provide supply to us. capital for non-profit companies with a view to creating a positive social impact in the world. ABN AMRO is also It goes without saying that we will continue to put the a corporate member of the TBLI CLUB™ – a circle of client centre stage in the future, working on the clarity and dedicated sustainable and impact investment professionals, transparency of our services and on products that are investors and asset managers – and hosted its November relevant and can make a difference. conference. Socially Responsible Investing Our clients’ investments in sustainable assets came to EUR 4,932 million in 2012. Growth came primarily from two sources: ongoing demand for our sustainable mandates in the Netherlands, France and Germany; and a shift towards sustainability in the investment philosophy of certain money market funds at Neuflize OBC (France). In Germany for example, investments in sustainable funds and mandates more than tripled within 12 months from EUR 32 million in October 2011 to over EUR 115 million in September 2012. 4.1.3 Our plans for the future Although we are pleased with these developments, our ambitions extend further still. We want to integrate sustainable elements in our mainstream investment offering as well as the niches described above. A key aspect of this approach is selection not only by financial criteria, but taking account of sustainable factors too. In 2012 we launched the Investment Engagement Committee (IEC) to shape and coordinate implementation of the selection process. The IEC is made up of representatives from all the bank’s relevant business lines and is chaired by Caroline Princen, the Managing Board member responsible for Sustainability. Following a decision to exclude shares of companies on the Controversial Weapons list, the IEC is now preparing similar steps for companies that violate the principles of 29 Our clients’ investments in sustainable assets came to EUR 4,932 million in 2012. 30 dedicating ourselves to the client Growth & Innovation Desk set up in 2012. A fund is now available providing capital of EUR 120 million to rapidly growing innovative businesses. Energy Saving Loan introduced in 2012 in cooperation with power companies, the first bank to do so in the Netherlands. ABN AMRO works with sheltered workshops to promote energy-efficient lighting. This has also been recognised as the most successful employment project. The number of complaints dealt with dropped from 172,000 , , in 2011 to 142,000 in 2012, due in part to the launch of the improved “How We Deal with Complaints” process. The AFM rating was 3.8 in 2011 and 4.2 in 2012 (on a scale of 1 to 5). 31 4.2 Commercial & Merchant Banking in 2012. The emphasis in 2013 will be on reworking our (C&MB) written communication with clients. With its long history as business partner to Dutch Innovation industry, Commercial & Merchant Banking (C&MB) Our clients want their banking business to be dealt with knows better than anyone the needs of its clients and quickly and easily, with products that reflect their needs. the social context in which they operate. Food shortages, For that reason, we’re continuously on the lookout for an ageing population, climate change and the depletion innovative and appropriate solutions. C&MB launched a of raw materials are just a few examples of the kind of number of new products in 2012. Market Insights is an trends organisations are having to deal with. Businesses iPad app that clients can use to receive regular economic are expected nowadays to contribute to possible solutions. and industry reports. The Access Online app, meanwhile, Sustainability has become a prerequisite for commercial enables clients to check their domestic and foreign success and hence also for the success of C&MB. accounts and payment status anytime, anywhere using their iPhone or iPad. Quick Banking lets clients log in to C&MB wants to be a strategic partner for its clients. online banking using a self-chosen identification code, We want to enter a dialogue with clients, share knowwithout requiring the e.dentifier (card-reader). ledge and look together at how they can contribute to a more sustainable economy. How and to what extent C&MB also set up the Growth & Innovation (G&I) Desk our clients are working towards a sustainable future in 2012 to give innovative businesses looking for finance varies widely. One client might aspire to a completely the opportunity to opt for sustainability. Our specialists sustainable manufacturing process, while another is at the G&I Desk look for investors in their network who committed to people and the community. Some businesses, can support the businesses in question with funding and meanwhile, have yet to take their first sustainable steps. know-how, to bring their product, service or concept to We want to support the efforts of all these organisations market successfully. C&MB can contribute to that through by promoting cooperation, rewarding good initiatives and facilities like the ‘Innovatief Borgstellingskrediet’, a loan above all putting our heads together. In the sections guaranteed in part by the government. Our G&I specialists below, we describe some of our initiatives in this field. also help clients with possible subsidy applications. 4.2.1 A better bank: clients’ interests first On 26 November 2012, Gerrit Zalm and Joop Wijn signed To determine what our clients want and how they rate us, a contract with the European Investment Fund (EIF). client satisfaction research is carried out within C&MB by The C&MB unit can now provide capital of EUR 120 million independent bodies. The agreement is that relationship to rapidly growing innovative businesses, with the EIF managers will contact their clients based on non-anonymous guaranteeing 50% of that amount. ABN AMRO is the results from the research. Where possible, the findings only Dutch bank able to do this, reflecting the unique are used to improve the service and advice we provide to position C&MB’s Growth & Innovation Desk occupies in our clients. At the same time, an annual internal survey – the market. the culture scan – is held to gauge our employees’ satisfaction with the culture within the bank. All aspects of the culture Industry knowledge surveyed in 2012 were found to have improved compared We support our clients with specific knowledge in the to the previous year. following sectors: Construction, Food, Industry, Telecommunications, Media, Technology, Government, Housing Transparency Corporations, Education, Public Sector, Real Estate, Retail, C&MB launched its Plain Language project in 2011 to Transport & Logistics, Business Services, Energy, increase transparency and enhance communication Commodities & Transportation and Agriculture. A number withclients. The goal is to rewrite all our client information of industry reports were published in 2012, in which so that it is clear and focuses on what the client wants to sustainability was a recurring theme. The Poultry Industry know. The provision of training and rewriting of commercial Report, for instance, focused on the Carbon Footprint, while texts on the website are examples of concrete results. the High-Tech Agrisystems Report emphasised opportunities A total of 117 C&MB employees completed the training for more efficient agriculture in third-world countries. 32 dedicating ourselves to the client These reports are increasingly distributed in digital form or C&MB helps produce the Green Transport & Logistics in limited print runs. sustainability report, which highlights sustainability developments in the logistics industry. C&MB takes part in a number of sustainable initiatives too: C&MB is a member of the Green Fashion Competition Sustainability is now fully integrated in our day-to-day jury, which picks the best fashion designers focusing business operations, both nationally and internationally, on sustainable clothing. at C&MB’s Energy, Commodities & Transportation (ECT) C&MB contributes, lastly, to seminars and conferences unit. We also engage in active dialogue with our clients on sustainability, such as Logistics Day, which was about the sustainability issues relevant to them. We held in Limburg on 22 September 2012. C&MB held took the following initiatives to enable us to evaluate several presentations at the event, which focused on and respond more effectively to the sustainability risks sustainability, developments in corporate finance and of our ECT clients: sustainable innovations. • interviewed our clients and scrutinised their sustainability practices; 4.2.2 A better world: products and services • established sustainability standards for the energy C&MB works hard to place the client centre stage when and metals-related commodities market; developing products. The product development and • developed instruments with which to measure approval process is one example, in which the development their sustainability performance against an industry of new products is evaluated based on a fixed procedure. benchmark. An important criterion in this respect is the extent to Our sustainability tools and guidelines are almost which the product serves the clients’ interests. Existing finalised. We’re now taking stock of the extent to which products are reviewed according to that standard each our clients are actively seeking to mitigate the social year, once again with a view to the clients’ interests. and environmental risks associated with their business The Risk, Compliance and Legal departments are involved operations and to what extent they are succeeding. with developing and testing products. Here’s just a We will take the results of this analysis into account in selection of C&MB’s sustainable products and initiatives: each due diligence and credit approval process, with clients’ sustainability performance influencing the Energy and environmental finance decision-making process. The Energy Saving Loan is one solution of this kind. C&MB is closely involved with research into transport We put clients with high energy bills in contact with industry trends, with a particular emphasis on shipping. companies that supply energy-efficient cooling and We translate specific developments into our finance heating systems. Installation costs are financed by criteria. We do not provide funding, for instance, for ABN AMRO, with repayment of the loan plus interest single-hulled ships, following a number of environmental earned back entirely through the reduced energy bill. incidents involving vessels of this kind. ABN AMRO The resultant savings can run to 20-30%. We offer this Maritime also offers financing solutions. approach to clients as an integrated solution. Clients can C&MB is a partner of the PRIMA Ondernemen Award save energy via the Energy Saving Loan without impacting – a prize for innovative sustainable enterprise in the their budget at all. rubber and synthetics industry, presented every two years. Dutch Green Building Week was organised in 2012 Through the GreenFox initiative, C&MB makes it possible for the second year in a row. C&MB acts as sponsor. for clients to save energy and reduce CO2 immediately. The aim of the event is to highlight the important GreenFox works with sheltered workshops to make role sustainable building plays on the way toward a lighting more energy-efficient by converting existing light healthier, more sustainable society. fittings to the latest technology. The result is an average The Outdoor Grazing Covenant was signed on 18 June energy saving of about 40% on lighting and a win-win-win 2012 by over 50 organisations active in the food chain. situation for the environment, employment and our clients’ C&MB was among the signatories. The objective is to budgets. support the current level of dairy farms with outdoor grazing, to keep as many dairy cattle as possible in the open air. 33 ABN AMRO Lease provided finance to the tune of Alternative forms of finance EUR 8.8 million for sustainable projects last year, including A pilot was launched in 2012 for Seeds – a crowdfunding EUR 1.9 million to fund two biogas installations. These platform offering entrepreneurs the opportunity to raise deliver 3 million m3 of green gas a year – enough to supply finance online. Seeds, which aims to promote sustainable 1,700 households with green energy. One of the larger business practices, is a wholly owned subsidiary of sustainability-related deals was the funding of LED lighting ABN AMRO. This innovative initiative enables clients to in commercial greenhouses. ABN AMRO Lease has also invest between EUR 50 and EUR 5,000 in socially signed around 100 leasing deals in the past 14 years for responsible enterprises. Over 250 entrepreneurs have Heat Exchangers. This technology uses large gas engines signed up. As of 24 September 2012, four months after that generate electricity for crop lighting. the initiative was launched, three of the five businesses Inducing crops to grow faster reduces energy costs. were fully funded, including one that produces healthy At the same time, sufficient heat is generated to heat the snacks for children. greenhouse, and so large boilers are no longer needed. A great deal has been invested in new, environmentally Start-up finance: stimulating innovation friendly greenhouses: Green Label greenhouses. In 2012, ABN AMRO has long been a bank for entrepreneurs, and ABN AMRO Lease funded the largest heat-exchanger so C&MB focuses very strongly on business start-ups. (7.5 MW) in horticulture, for a sum of around EUR 2.9 million ABN AMRO took part, for instance in the Amsterdam – equivalent to the power consumption of around 15,640 Start-up Bootcamp, a project to which the bank has households. committed itself for the next two years. It offers start-ups in the media and technology sector the opportunity to The Modulo Kringloopplein is an innovative concept for collaborate intensively with industry experts, who offer the collection, sorting and recycling of domestic waste. their services as mentor. Starting capital, a free workplace It allows organisations active in the waste management, and lots of sponsorship deals mean start-ups can make recycling and work reintegration fields to collaborate more the kind of progress in three months that would normally efficiently with all levels of government. The basic principle take them years. In this way, some 80% of the new is that the savings generated by recycling centres are businesses managed to raise the finance they needed. analysed and that they exceed the associated investments. ABN AMRO invests directly in some of them as well In collaboration withModulo, we offer a new concept for (see box). recycling centres, which can now be financed in a budget-neutral way. There is considerable interest in the Start-ups often have very limited funds with which to concept in the Netherlands, besides a first success was invest, which is why ABN AMRO Lease launched its ‘lease achieved recently in the German market in Hamburg. for start-ups’ product in August 2012, which makes leasing possible for amounts between EUR 5,000 and a maximum Another initiative aims to help clients – particularly in the of EUR 50,000. Since then, over a hundred contracts have agricultural sector – to create a healthier working and been signed with a combined value of EUR 2.2 million. living environment by financing the removal of asbestos sheeting and installation of solar panels, so that our clients We also participated in 2012 in Stichting Jong Ondernemen, achieve two benefits at once. A pilot was launched at the an independent foundation for young entrepreneurs beginning of November 2012. founded in part on the initiative of ABN AMRO. The goal of the foundation is to bring secondary and higher MisterGreen was founded in 2008 and is the first Dutch education students into contact with entrepreneurship. leasing and rental firm to focus exclusively on electric cars We’re closely involved with the initiative, supplying and scooters. ABN AMRO Lease made a start in 2012 volunteers and organising workshops, for instance, on with five lease contracts worth an average of EUR 30,000 subjects like preparing a business plan. Students are each. Collaboration with MisterGreen has also been also given a business account they can use to set up a widened: in addition to a commercial account and a business of their own under the ‘Jong Ondernemen’ partnership with ABN AMRO Lease, we now offer finance banner, giving them a risk-free foretaste of what it is to too. Not only are we an investor, we also lease electric be an entrepreneur. cars for our branches in Almere and Amsterdam Southeast. 34 dedicating ourselves to the client ABN AMRO Venturing Holding B.V. has been the joint 4.2.3 Our plans for the future initiator and shareholder since 2006 of the Start Green All these activities – often small-scale – contribute to the Venture Capital investment fund, through which we success of our clients. They support sustainable growth seek to contribute at an early stage to the financing of for the Dutch economy and promote socially responsible sustainable innovation. Entrepreneurs find it hard during enterprise. Sustainable growth will also be one of the pillars this earliest stage of development to raise the capital of C&MB’s strategy in 2013 and beyond. The number of they need to bring their technology to market. Start Green activities in the field of sustainability are expected to Venture Capital plays an important role in that regard, to increase further in the years ahead. which end it manages two funds (see box). New Venture is another initiative in which C&MB took 4.3 Handling complaints part in 2012. It provides new entrepreneurs with a year’s guidance in drawing up a good business plan. We provide Having dealt with over 172,000 complaints in 2011, coaches, organise workshops on writing the financial ABN AMRO saw that figure decline in 2012 to around section of the plan, and are closely involved in the final 142,000. An updated process – ‘How We Deal with presentation. We also introduce the winners to our Complaints’ – helped us pick up client signals more investor network. Through these initiatives, C&MB effectively. We also keep active track of client responses supports new businesses not only financially but also via social media, such as Twitter, Facebook and online with knowledge and expertise. discussion forums, enabling us to address many queries straight away, heading off potential complaints. We entered a partnership in 2012 with Social Enterprise NL, an organisation that sets out to stimulate socially The three most common areas of complaint in 2012 committed businesses in the Netherlands. ABN AMRO related to: endorses the importance of that initiative, which is why 1. Payments (authorisation not provided, incorrect the bank shares its know-how and offers alternative forms beneficiary account, account debited incorrectly) of funding to help support businesses of this kind. 2. Cash (failed cash dispenser withdrawals, failed transactions using multipurpose ATMs) 3. Cards – Issuing (incorrect transfer of electronic purse balance) AMSTERDAM START-UP BOOTCAMP ABN AMRO took part in spring 2012 in the Amsterdam Start-up organised workshops in their role as mentors. At the end of Bootcamp (SBC) – an accelerator programme for innovative the programme, ten start-ups presented their ideas to several business start-ups in the media and technology sector. Of the hundred investors, including 80 ABN AMRO Private Banking 400 applications, ten international start-ups were selected to clients. Investor interest was strong. After follow-up investments take part in an intensive three-month programme at SBC. and negotiations, the value of the start-ups was estimated at They were supervised by 70 mentors from the business world, a total of EUR 18 million (source: PricewaterhouseCoopers), including ABN AMRO, Boer & Croon and PWC. The selected which meant 80% of the start-ups raised the finance they businesses received a total of EUR 17 million in starting capital, needed. Other accelerator programmes report rates of 50%. free business accommodation at Vodafone and, where Between them, the ten start-ups have created 70 new jobs. necessary, living accommodation at Ymere. Together, this enabled the start-ups to contribute to the community through A fresh batch of start-ups applied at the end of 2012 to take sustainable, innovative concepts and job creation. part in SBC 2013. Once the best ideas have been selected, the winners will be fast-tracked from 2 April so they can present ABN AMRO’s Growth & Innovation Desk, Corporate Clients, their plans on 28 June 2013 to around 400 investors. Sector Advisory and Informal Investment Services all 35 4.3.1 What did we achieve? with queries from retail clients, but part of the team will It’s crucial that we deal with complaints effectively: clients begin to focus specifically on business clients as of who are not satisfied with the way their complaint was January 2013. handled will be dissatisfied with the bank in general. We also launched ‘How We Deal with Complaints in 2013’ ABN AMRO’s revised complaints policy was approved – a new approach, in which we ask clients how they would in 2012. The policy puts our clients centre stage: like their complaint to be solved. Once the complaint has everything is geared to solving problems as quickly and been dealt with, we call clients back to see whether the effectively as possible, and using the knowledge gained matter has been settled to their satisfaction. The employee to improve our processes and services. who received the complaint is then informed afterwards about how it was handled, enabling us to learn from each The Netherlands Authority for the Financial Markets complaint. (Autoriteit Financiële Markten – AFM) also looked at our complaints management again in 2012, noting that major Various helplines are provided for employees to call in steps have been taken, including the creation of Operational order to provide clients with the best possible service. and Tactical Consultation and consolidating the learning They can call on the Complaints Management department’s process. Contacts between the different departments advice desk or Legal Advice Unit for help with complex involved in complaints handling were improved as well. legal and similar issues, or to discuss the best way to The AFM’s rating in 2011 was 3.8 (on a scale of 1 to 5), satisfy the client’s wishes. The employees who deal with rising to 4.2 in 2012. the complaints are consulted via the complaints line to help solve the issue as quickly as possible. In this way, we ABN AMRO’s social media presence was further focus on the client’s interests, and maintain or restore a expanded in 2012. Our Webcare team actively seeks out good relationship with them. clients’ queries, suggestions and complaints, with a view to answering questions quickly and fully and solving Any complaint where clients feel their privacy has been problems immediately. Clients are clearly very satisfied breached is harmful to their interests. This can occur if the with this service, which is available round the clock every bank reveals their details to a third party without day of the week. Up to now Webcare has dealt primarily authorisation or if personal information is not properly Start Green ABN AMRO Venturing Holding B.V. has been the joint initiator One of Start Green Venture Capital’s investments is Ojah B.V., and shareholder since 2006 of the Start Green Venture Capital winner of the SME Top 100 in 2012. Ojah B.V. uses its investment fund, through which we want to help finance internationally unique, patented food technology to produce sustainable innovation at an early stage. Entrepreneurs find 100% vegetable-based meat substitutes, which are marketed it hard during this earliest stage of development to raise the in the Netherlands under the Beeter® brand. Unlike existing capital they need to bring their technology to market. Start meat substitutes, Ojah’s product is tender and offers the taste Green Venture Capital plays an important part in that respect, sensation of real meat. to which end it manages two funds. The Start Green Sustainable Innovation Fund focuses on the business-to-business market, Consumer demand for high-quality meat substitutes is while the Start Green Consumer Products Fund invests growing hugely, due to a combination of ethical and health specifically in the development of sustainable consumer goods. considerations. Ojah has developed a great product that Over the past six years, Start Green has built up a portfolio of can be produced on a large scale with a very low ten investments. environmental impact. 36 dedicating ourselves to the client Customer Excellence We launched our Customer Excellence programme in 2010. paper, printing and post traffic. Examples include reducing CE is a way of working whereby we develop our employees’ the size of reports and offers, distributing fewer paper copies problem-solving skills in order to give our clients the best and processing forms electronically. Through these measures, service as quickly as possible and at the lowest possible cost. we saved almost a million sheets of paper in 2012 compared to the previous year. In many cases, this also enabled us to Our CE approach is closely aligned with the bank’s sustainability service the client in half the time. thinking, in which we set ourselves three main goals: greater client satisfaction, greater employee satisfaction and greater Customer Excellence brings about the transformation needed efficiency. Taking our clients as our starting point, we’re to establish an organisation that seeks continuously to working on our processes and investing in our staff. That will improve itself. The first stage in that process is to introduce result in a good, fast and relevant service at a reasonable price Customer Excellence at a particular business unit, which and in plain language. What it means for our staff is that we takes 14 consecutive weeks. This has already been done at discuss the consequences of changes at the beginning of the 13 business units, with employees involved with Customer day. That also gives our people a platform on which to shape Excellence around 10,000 times. Under CE, for instance, the day-to-day improvement of their own work. confirmation letters are sent to clients digitally, which means they receive confirmation the same day, and we reduce We once again implemented large and small changes in the printing and delivery costs. Another example is the Next of Customer Excellence context, several of which had a typical Kin Desk, where documents can now also be delivered sustainability character. By organising our processes more digitally, cutting two days off the procedure. The bank currently intelligently and thinking about what clients want to receive employs 150 certified CE experts. in their letter boxes, we can save a considerable amount of secured. We received 24 complaints in that regard in 2012, in three of which cases the client’s view was upheld. Clients’ interests are also at issue in complaints regarding investment advice they have received. There were 54 complaints of that nature in 2012, in two of which the client’s view was upheld. A total of 348 clients approached the Klachteninstituut Financiële Dienstverlening (Complaints Institute for Financial Services, or KiFiD) Ombudsman in 2012, and 83 clients took their case to KiFiD’s Disputes Committee. KiFiD found in ABN AMRO’s favour in 76% of these cases. 4.3.2 Our plans for the future We will do everything we can in 2013 to take even better account of the client’s voice in the complaints process. 37 Philanthropy puts the client centre stage “A world in which we’re ready to take care of one another.” 39 A BN AMRO MeesPierson began to So that the majority of people immediately offer specialist philanthropy advice think differently and strive for a world in at the end of 2012. The bank which we’re ready to take care of each detected a need among private banking other. It’s not about things, but people.” clients for advice on ‘giving’ and recruited Diana van Maasdijk to develop a service on those lines. Her first client was Strategic giving Peter Groenen, CEO of Beheermaatschappij Groenen. “The solution today is to share Diana van Maasdijk, Head of Philanthropy things.” Advice at ABN AMRO MeesPierson and author of the Good Giving guide: “I think what Bring about a a very broad view of ‘giving’. It could be he’s doing is great. Our team of philanthropy knowledge, experience, time, money or advisors helps as many ABN AMRO change energy. I want to do things that give me goose-bumps.” And that’s precisely what he MeesPierson clients as possible fulfil their wish to make a difference to the world Peter Groenen is a born entrepreneur. gets from investing in people. “The solution through effective and strategic giving. He took over the family business and at this time is to share things. My ambition is We look for the right organisations and swapped retail for venture capital. “I take to work with others to bring about a change. people for our clients. Helping Peter set up his Jazi foundation is a fantastic opportunity.” “ABN AMRO MeesPierson and Jazi want to achieve the same thing,” Peter Groenen explains. “That’s why it works so well. It’s about making connections. Nine out of ten business start-ups fail, so they’re not always going to get it right first time in Africa either. We want Jazi to show just how many well organised, existing goals you can support straight away.” Van Maasdijk: “People are sometimes surprised to find a bank helping people to ‘give their money away’. But there’s substantial Jazi – Make your difference client demand for philanthropy: it’s something many of them are concerned Peter Groenen and his co-founders Robert In this way, Jazi aims to bring about about. We put our clients centre stage, and Jane van de Boogaard launched their sustainable change in as many lives as which means we also respond to their ‘Jazi’ foundation at the beginning of 2013. possible. The foundation takes its name questions about giving. We do that by Peter Groenen: “You can increase the from a Swahili word meaning ‘inspired listening to them. And we also introduce impact of a gift by linking up donors with giving’. specific services, for which clients themexisting good causes and by offering selves decide how much to pay. ABN AMRO advice and inspiration. That way you don’t “You can go your own way and try to MeesPierson then donates 25% of that waste time and money reinventing the find out and control everything yourself. amount to organisations that promote wheel. The aim is to create a foundation But we think it’s better to pool your efphilanthropy.” that helps make giving more effective, forts as much as possible. That’s how efficient, transparent, personal and we’ll achieve the most.” pleasurable.” Find out more about the foundation at jazi.eu 40 dialogue with our stakeholders stakeholders dialogue with our 5 To give proper shape to our sustainability policy, we need to establish a corporate culture in which we engage in constant dialogue with our stakeholders and build a long-term relationship with them. Only then can we form a clearer insight into society’s wishes and concerns and respond to social developments. ABN AMRO has a wide range of stakeholders, among which our clients and employees are central. We determine with them what elements we wish to emphasise. Before we can reach our clients, however, we first have to reach our employees. We therefore organised various actions in 2012 to inform our staff about what sustainability means to ABN AMRO and what we do in that area. Aside from our clients and employees, our prime stakeholders are our shareholder and NGOs. 5.1 Relevant themes: community places on them and the focuses we have the materiality principle set out in our strategy. It isn’t possible to consult all our stakeholders about every theme, which is why we apply the ‘materiality principle’. 5.2 Sustainable dialogue This means we focus on discussing questions that are very important to the bank and which we can actually do We’ve tested our sustainability policy against a variety something about. The issues that ABN AMRO considers of stakeholders, including the Works Council, our relevant are the ones that are important to our prime Sustainability Advisory Board and different knowledge stakeholders, and we actively maintain a dialogue in those institutions, and will continue to do so, in order to keep areas. Other themes, which we currently view as less track of what our stakeholders consider important. relevant, might become more so in the future. So we also want to monitor and understand issues at the periphery ABN AMRO is actively involved with a range of national of our sphere of influence. and international initiatives, which are themselves committed to a better world, such as UNPRI, the UN Social media are playing an increasingly central part in Global Compact and the UN Guiding Principles for the exchange of ideas concerning social trends and we Business and Human Rights. The main initiatives and intend to increase our dialogue with stakeholders via memberships are: these channels in 2013. The issues on which we want to concentrate will be determined by the relevance the 41 Active dialogue and exchange of information with stakeholders. The approach included a client panel and contact with our commercial partners. Staff awareness of sustainability is rising. A private social media group on sustainable projects was launched on Facebook. It has more than 250 members. We began to submit our products to clients in 2012 to help improve quality. We have a range of sustainable deals for staff (tips on how to generate your own green electricity, consume less energy and track your power consumption). More than 100 quotations for solar panels were issued to staff. 42 dialogue with our stakeholders Aim to sustain Kifid Sustainable Shipping Initiative Duisenberg School of Finance MVO Nederland SVN Nederland Dutch Green Building Council NIVE UNEP FI Holland Financial Centre Dutch Association of Investors for UN Global Compact Sustainable Development (VBDO) IIF PRI IUCN Nederland Sustainable Finance Lab 5.3 Targeted consultation In so doing, we will involve our clients more in our products and services. We began to consult our stakeholders in a more targeted way this year, based on the stakeholder management plan Employees ABN AMRO has drawn up. Dialogue with our prime stakeOur Business Principles were introduced throughout holders resulted in the following initiatives and positions. the bank at the beginning of 2012. These six guidelines set out the social-ethical framework in which we operate Clients and help share the behaviour of individual employees. Client panels – retail clients in particular – help us test ‘I am committed to sustainable business practices’ is our thinking about the bank’s sustainability strategy. one of the principles that will guide our actions. Clients feel it is important for ABN AMRO to pursue We organised a series of large staff events in the sustainability. They wouldn’t like it, however, if we were sustainability field. Internal Sustainability Days were to promote ourselves at this stage as a sustainable held in Amsterdam, for instance, on 21 February, bank. “Do it without making a fuss and show some 17 April and 19 June, in which hundreds of employees humility” was the essence of their message. took part. They focused intensively on how to speed We have discussed our sustainability strategy with up the creation of a ‘community of practice’ for various business clients along with their own efforts in sustainability at ABN AMRO. Presentations were also that area. These talks generally related to the environorganised at numerous departments, with sustainability mental, social and ethical (ESE) industry policy that we a fixture on the agenda. Almost 300 people attended established again in 2012. We visited our clients, and the 19 June event. the Managing Board and Sustainability department held We have set up discussion platforms on the intranet a series of client presentations. and internet where employees with a close involveWe organised initiatives abroad too to inform clients ment in this field can exchange information about about and involve them in our sustainability strategy. sustainable themes and issues. Bethmann Bank staged an enterprise platform in We help our employees make their home lives more Stuttgart, for instance, featuring a discussion with the sustainable, by offering them sustainable deals – advice biologist, researcher and activist Christine von Weizsäcker on how to generate green electricity, for instance, about a range of sustainability issues. Still in Germany, consume less energy and track their energy consumption. we discussed sustainable asset management with They also have the opportunity to purchase solar panels over 200 clients in 2012, and Bethmann Bank set up or LED lighting at a very competitive price. A total of an independent Sustainability Advisory Board to 103 quotations for solar panels were issued to staff in monitor responsible investment processes and ethical 2012, equal to around 310,000 kWh of power. investment portfolios. We began to present our products for client evaluation Other stakeholders in 2012, including our ongoing travel insurance. Clients In addition to consulting our clients and employees, we who report a claim online can rate the way it is handled. maintained a dialogue with other stakeholders, such as Our aim is to steadily raise the level of client satisfaction rating agencies, benchmark representatives and NGOs. and transparency, and so the bank plans over time to Contact with the latter in particular forms an important have all its products reviewed by its clients in this way. link with the community. A wide range of themes were discussed. Appendix 3 contains an overview of our stake43 holders and the themes we discussed with them. and risk profiles of other relevant professional clients too, A brief survey of several important issues raised in 2012 adjusting them where necessary. ABN AMRO also closed is given below. its Delta One Arbitrage derivatives desk, as this interbank activity was no longer aligned with our goal of only Remuneration policy accepting risks on behalf of long-term client relationships. Top bankers’ pay was once again a sensitive social issue in 2012. ABN AMRO agreed with its shareholder last year to Sustainability in practice scrap the variable element of Managing Board members’ We are working on various fronts to embed sustainability pay and to convert part of it into fixed remuneration, in the finance we provide and the industries we serve. resulting in further moderation within the bank’s pay Themes in 2012 included more sustainable ship-breaking, policy. The overall policy is supervised by the Dutch central green power generation, preventing deforestation and the bank and the Authority for the Financial Markets (AFM). exclusion of controversial weapons. Cybercrime: skimming Online fraud and abuse of payment cards are a growing 5.4 Our plans for the future problem for both the bank and its clients. ABN AMRO took numerous steps in 2012 to prevent fraud, including We want to position ourselves more clearly on a campaign to raise client awareness of the issues. sustainability in the social media, and to dialogue with The aim was to show people that they too can contribute stakeholders on the bank’s sustainability policy. to the security of online banking and use of payment We intend to further structure and implement our cards. Much greater importance is now placed on materiality analysis in consultation with our prime prevention, with secure banking viewed as the shared stakeholders. responsibility of bank and client: we can’t do it without And we will continue to professionalise our cross-bank each other. stakeholder management. Supporting the real economy, tackling debt Despite the crisis, ABN AMRO continued to support the real economy in 2012 by lending to individuals and companies with solid plans. The downturn will, however, continue to cause problems for some clients, including repaying their mortgage. To help in that regard, we set up Mortgage Care Teams in 2012 to assist retail clients who find themselves in difficulty. Some businesses too struggled to service their loans in 2012. Our Financial Restructuring & Recovery (FR&R) department helped them to restore their financial health. FR&R is currently advising 15% of ABN AMRO’s business borrowers, with which it boasts a very high 85% success rate. Derivatives trading Although derivatives can be an effective instrument for professional clients to manage their risk and ABN AMRO has always fulfilled its duty of care with respect to these products, the crisis has caused problems for some institutions because of derivatives trading. The housing corporation Vestia is one high-profile example. ABN AMRO lived up to its responsibility in that case by scaling down, together with other financial institutions, Vestia’s derivatives portfolio. The bank reviewed the derivatives portfolios Soul searching “Sometimes a fish forgets it’s swimming in water.” 45 G reenpeace is a non-governmental organisation (NGO) that operates according to make a difference by carefully considering firm values, such as engagement and ‘honest’ sustainability. The independent what we do in the light of our values.” organisation has a clearly defined goal: to achieve environmental progress. ABN AMRO too operates based on its core values – Trusted, Professional and Ambitious – but can still be held to account by a stakeholder like Greenpeace. “That critical gaze prevents us from developing organisational blind spots,” Richard Kooloos, head of Speeding up Sustainability at ABN AMRO says. Van Keulen: “Greenpeace can’t make the world more sustainable on its own. NGOs, “Sometimes a fish forgets it’s swimming in business and government have to work water,” he explains. “It helps when an outtogether, but it has to be on an equal footing. side organisation like Greenpeace holds up We sent an open letter to a national newsa mirror to you.” Sanne van Keulen, head paper, for instance, as a signal to politicians: of the Greenpeace Climate & Energy the Netherlands is lagging behind significampaign: “We think ABN AMRO has a big cantly in the battle for sustainability. part to play in making the Netherlands more The letter, which had over a hundred sustainable. I recognise that a bank has signatories, including ABN AMRO, called to focus on its bottom line, but we believe on the leaders of the coalition parties to your long-term survival is bound up with speed up the process. Because the switch your social responsibility. We therefore to a sustainable and secure energy supply draw the attention of different companies is a necessary one for both the climate and and institutions to the risks associated the economy. We need to speed up a lot in with a particular investment, for instance, the Netherlands, so businesses, NGOs and whether or not they ask us to.” benefit. That’s why we engage in the necesthe government all have to act!” sary internal and external discussions to achieve a better and more sustainable Society’s understanding together. ABN AMRO and challenges Greenpeace don’t always agree on how to go about solving society’s challenges, but “The question,” Kooloos continues, “is that doesn’t prevent us from maintaining whether you can expect us or the companies a dialogue, listening to each other and that borrow from us to pull out of a particular exploring potential solutions together. investment. There may be geopolitical ABN AMRO has given shape to its own soul considerations or shortages that mean a searching through the theme of ‘a better country or society wouldn’t necessarily bank contributing to a better world’. We can 46 our emphasis on employees employees our emphasis on 6 We realise that we can only achieve our aspirations if we have an inspired workforce that we can employ long-term. To this end, we aim to be an attractive employer capable of retaining talented people. Equally, we hope that our efforts to be a better bank contributing to a better world will appeal to our staff. 6.1 Our Human Resources policy 6.2 Developing our employees The world is changing rapidly and people are increasingly Our people are at the heart of our organisation, and so it likely to choose an organisation based on more than just is important to us that they continue to develop and build financial reasons. That goes for our clients and our staff. their professional skills. That’s also the only way we will What kind of business is this and is it right for me? be able to maintain a high-quality service for our clients. What’s the relevance of this organisation to society? What Demonstrable expertise and professionalism is ABN AMRO’s development opportunities will this employer offer me? goal. To achieve that, we give our staff the tools to help them learn, both in the workplace and through training. Human Resources at ABN AMRO therefore focuses on Managers supervise employees, acting as coach and two central issues: sounding board, while also focusing on topics like health, How do we ensure the long-term employability of our work-life balance, motivation and longer-term development. staff? People are going to have to work for longer in the future, so it’s even more important that they continue Employees in the future will have to work longer before to develop, to maintain their employability in the long being able to retire, and in today’s rapidly-changing world term. Employability means, moreover, that our people the nature of work is changing too. To ensure that staff have to stay fit enough to be able to work. Sustainable make the most of these developments and remain employability was also a key focus of this year’s employable, ABN AMRO and its workforce need to invest collective labour agreement negotiations. The new in sustainable employability. We concentrated our efforts agreement came into effect on 1 January 2013. in 2012 on training and developing staff and addressed this How can we ensure we remain an attractive employer? issue in the negotiations on the Dutch collective labour We’re keen to hold on to talented employees and to agreement for 2013. For example, the agreement includes be attractive to prospective new ones. We expect a provisions regarding the following items: shortage of specialists in a number of specific fields in ‘Generation leave’: employees who are employed for the years ahead, so we focused a lot of attention this at least twelve months can take a six-month leave of year on how we position ourselves in the employment absence. market, both inside and outside the bank. ‘Demotion’: procedures were formulated for employees 47 15,000 Dutch employees were already involved with NWW in one way or another in 2012, optimising the way they work. NWW is not timeor locationspecific, which reduces travelling times. Seven out of ten employees used NWW in 2012. Roughly 25% of employees given notice of redundancy in 2012 were placed in permanent internal jobs and 35% in temporary jobs. We ranked ninth among preferred employers in 2012, compared to eleventh in 2011. Employee pride in (+6%) and commitment to (+7%) the organisation grew in 2012. In 2012 no fewer than 1,650 of a total of 2,800 senior managers took part in a leadership programme lasting several days. 48 our emphasis on employees who, at their own request, decrease in job grade (e.g. organised at which all Dutch managers were able to discuss because they want fewer responsibilities). the bank’s future direction with the Managing Board. every employee will have access to tools that help Special emphasis was placed on sustainable change. increase their employability. These include education The introduction of the Business Principles and the request and employability scans and can be tailored to for managers to take ownership of them heightened the individual needs.. sense of individual responsibility. Managers outside the Netherlands will follow the leadership programme in 2013. Strategic workforce planning helps us to achieve a good insight into the right mix of employees needed in the future. The gap between the actual and future workforce 6.3 ABN AMRO as employer provides input for specific HR measures which, for example, of choice focus on diversity, retention or talent management. This helps improve employee performance and development. According to the Dutch employment indicator Intermediair Strategic workforce planning makes our organisation more Image Survey, our image in the labour market is improving. agile, allowing us to anticipate mid-term developments. In 2012 we were ranked ninth most preferred employer, compared to eleventh in 2011 and fourteenth in 2008. Despite our commitment to long-term employability, The main focus in 2013 will be on further strengthening our reorganisation can still result in redundancies. We make position in the Dutch labour market and our opportunities every effort in that event to help the people affected find abroad. The key goal is to achieve a top of mind position alternative employment. In the Netherlands, for instance, among the relevant individuals and to be an employer of we provide them with a coach to assist them in their choice. search for a job inside or outside the bank. All Dutch vacancies are initially open exclusively to ABN AMRO Expectations towards work and employers are evolving staff, with priority given to those facing redundancy. and the demands for highly educated people are increasing. To attract the best professionals, we think it’s important As in the previous year, roughly 25% of all employees to connect with prospective and existing employees in a given notice of redundancy in 2012 were re-employed in personal way, using social media channels like LinkedIn, permanent posts at the bank. They found those positions Twitter and Facebook. This will promote an open attitude, before their existing jobs ended. Roughly 350 staff in which equal dialogue is vital. We back up this approach members made redundant (400 in 2011) received on our recruitment site by featuring 30 current employees guidance through the Redeployment Centre. Some 45% as ABN AMRO ambassadors. They tell their personal of them found new employment inside or outside the stories of working at the bank and interested parties can bank, compared with 55% in 2011. A total of around 35% contact them directly. (30% in 2011) of employees given notice of redundancy found temporary re-employment within the bank. That’s how we do things at ABN AMRO Our ambition is clear: we succeed when our clients Leadership development are successful. To fulfil that ambition, we need a clear Strategy, culture and leadership are closely linked. Our understanding of how we do business with clients and managers can create the desired culture within the bank. how we interact with each other. We’ve translated this It is therefore important that we have a clear view of our into six Business Principles that form the basis for our future leaders, the basis for which is effective succession actions: that’s how we do things at ABN AMRO. planning. That means identifying potential candidates and supporting managers in their development. We performed a Culture Scan in 2012 to gauge our staff’s view of the culture within the bank. The results of that No fewer than 1,625 managers were invited to take part survey will be used to continue working on the desired in a leadership programme in 2012 lasting several days. culture. The scan showed improvement on all aspects of The aim of the programme was to coach managers on the perceived culture by employees. Pride, satisfaction the skills needed to implement the bank’s strategy with and commitment are on the rise, which is not only good their teams and to initiate change. In addition, a day was for employees, but good for the bank as well. That’s a 49 positive development, especially considering the persistent Diversity: Results in 2012 pressure on the financial markets. There was an upward trend in their opinion of collaboration (+2% compared to 16% women in senior management 2011); putting the client centre stage (+1%); and clarity 22% women in upper middle-management of goals (+3%). Our employees were also more satisfied 44% women and 16% bicultural management trainees with and proud of the organisation than they were in 2011 Women (Netherlands): 50% part-time/ 50% full-time (+7% and +6% respectively). Employee perception of the Men (Netherlands): 4% part-time/ 96% full-time bank’s sustainability is a driver for engagement. This score has been improving over the years, but there is room for We made further progress toward our ‘Talent to the Top’ growth. We are launching an Engagement survey in 2013 objectives in 2012. The number of women in senior management to monitor and improve employee commitment on an posts rose 1.2% to 16.6% (target for 2014: 20%) and 1.6% in ongoing basis. upper middle-management to 22% (target for 2014: 25%). One member of the Managing Board and two members of the Diversity Supervisory Board are women. We want to build an organisation in which all sorts of talented people feel at home. Diversity must be embraced and put to optimum use, regardless of gender, ethnic Working conditions background, age, sexual preference or physical disability. Bank employees have sedentary jobs, work hard and We’re convinced that this helps us deliver the best results have to work even longer than before before reaching for our clients. retirement. All this combined increases the risk of health problems. ABN AMRO helps them to stay fit and healthy To promote diversity, we set up a Diversity Board in (see box). 2010 made up of nine members from different business units and chaired by a member of the Managing Board. Vitality initiatives The Diversity Board tracks and evaluates progress in the application of our diversity policy. A lot of attention has been paid in the Netherlands this past year to vitality. Vitality markets have been organised, and a In order to promote diversity, we developed a Diversity special intranet site was created: LEEF Vitaal. Staff can find Dashboard. The focus in 2012 was on actual appointments information there about keeping fit and healthy, with the help of employees with diverse backgrounds to management of the bank, the occupational health and safety service, and posts. We also organised a successful ‘Do or Die-versity’ the health insurer. Examples of specific actions include: conference for over 400 participants from within and outside the bank, who took part in diversity workshops Giving our staff the opportunity to have a three-yearly health and shared best practices. check. A total of 2,580 employees made use of this in 2012. Staff have access to in-house physiotherapy, gym facilities We launched a ‘selective perception programme’ for and a wide range of sports activities. recruitment and selection to give us a better insight into The health and safety service provides a special focus on how we view people, how this affects selection and how (sexual) harassment, job-related risks and safety. we can address that. Alongside these umbrella activities, Risk assessments are carried out on a regular basis to all our business units have developed their own initiatives analyse the risks associated with specific jobs. in the area of gender diversity to promote the professional Technical and other measures are taken to protect people, development of women. information and property. The rate of absence due to illness declined slightly in 2012 (3.86% at year-end compared to 4.19% at the end of 2011). 50 our emphasis on employees The New World of Work Disputes and mistreatment We use the New World of Work (NWW) to achieve our organisation’s objectives. Besides reducing our ecological Disputes and cases of mistreatment can be reported through footprint, NWW is important for employee satisfaction, a number of channels in the Netherlands. client satisfaction, our image in the labour market and diversity. Some 15,000 Dutch employees were already Workplace disputes involved with NWW in one way or another in 2012, thereby We have a Disputes Committee that mediates in disputes optimising the way they work. A key element of our concerning issues such as the collective labour agreement, implementation process is that the New World of Work labour conditions or job grading. 152 disputes were submitted is not ‘one size fits all’. Implementation is based on a in 2012. strong bottom-up approach. Confidential counsellors NWW was already bearing fruit in the Dutch ABN AMRO We aim to have a culture in which employees communicate organisation in 2012. Research shows that: openly, hold each other to account and interact respectfully. staff take a generally positive view of NWW: 76% Since things don’t always go as desired, we have appointed of ABN AMRO employees say they support NWW; independent confidential counsellors. These dealt with 328 73% think NWW is useful for them personally; cases in 2012, an increase of 12% compared to 2011, only and 51.5% think NWW is needed for ABN AMRO; 15 of which went to the Banking Disputes Committee. • staff enjoy greater freedom: 71% of ABN AMRO employees decide themselves when their working day Whistleblowing policy starts; 84% have a sense of freedom when performing ABN AMRO considers it important that cases of mistreatment their duties. should be reported. Only then can the bank take appropriate action and learn lessons for the future. That’s why ABN AMRO Respecting employees’ rights has adopted a whistleblowing policy. Any disputes between ABN AMRO and its staff are settled in accordance with the bank’s core values. ABN AMRO has drawn up a Human Rights Position Statement, which Our remuneration philosophy and performance forms the basis for dealing with complaints where human management rights issues are involved. Outside the Netherlands, the Our remuneration philosophy is based on our profile: a law of the country in question provides additional guidance. stable bank with a moderate risk profile that looks to the future with ambition. The performance management system prescribes a single appraisal philosophy, model and process for all employees. In 2012 we continued the implementation of new guidelines for performance management. These are intended to reduce the risk of inappropriate incentives, which might result in excessive risk-taking or behaviour that is not in the interest of our clients. We already started to analyse, monitor and where necessary mitigate these risks on a structural basis. The performance assessment for the Management Group and other Identified Staff Members incorporates a ‘gatekeeper procedure’. The Risk, Compliance and Audit departments assess each year whether individual behaviour is in line with the bank’s guidelines. Explicit attention is devoted to promoting behaviour that is in the client’s best interest. 51 6.4 Our plans for the future We will continue our efforts to be an employer of choice on the way to becoming a Top Class Employer. The bank will introduce a new collective labour agreement and redundancy scheme in 2013. The accord we’ve signed with the unions includes ‘study agreements’ on performance management and pensions. In 2013 the unions will suggest possible new guidelines which will be the starting point for new agreements to come into effect on 1 January 2014. We will continue to encourage sustainable employability in the years ahead. Women tend to think more long term “Women look at IT in terms of its importance to clients rather than technologically.” 53 “I don’t have a technical background at all. So when the vacancy came up for an Improvement Manager, I didn’t immediately think it was for me. But now I’ve been working at IT Services for almost two years, I can see that I definitely add value. Women tend to look at IT in terms of its importance to clients rather than purely technologically.” So says Monique van de Heisteeg, who has worked for ABN AMRO for 20 years. She offers a woman’s view from behind the scenes of a male-dominated world. Reduced confidence Van de Heisteeg’s job as Improvement Manager at IT Services is to help shape the department’s strategy. “Female values are growing in importance, especially now that confidence in the financial world has declined in recent years. Being a woman in a man’s world has its advantages. Based on my own experience, I tend to ask different questions, which can make us express things just that bit differently, or arrive at applying at the IT Services Office too. I do my want to do my part, I recently became a board different conclusions. An example of a best in my particular role to meet my clients’ member of Women in Financial Services. project where that comes through is needs and wishes as best as possible. We have over 250 members and 1,500 LinkedIn Customer Excellence, which we’re now For me, the technology comes second.” affiliates who want to bring about change in the financial sector. How, for instance, can we regain clients’ confidence in our industry? Changing culture I think that fits in well with our ‘impact’ theme, which we launched this year.” “I’d be more than happy to see even more women in senior and upper middle-management positions at ABN AMRO. That’s why I’m also involved with the diversity programme known as TOPS M/V. We regularly discuss the role of women in the company with the management team at TOPS (Technology, Operations & Property Services, of which IT Services is part). I see the corporate culture changing as a result. It’s more common now for women to rise through the ranks: they have more chance of a good position than before. Because I’m so enthusiastic and 54 our environmental impact our environmental impact 7 If you want to contribute to a better world, you have to begin with yourself. We want to make sure our operations are sustainable, including our impact on the environment. We can significantly reduce our ecological footprint through efficient and sustainable internal business operations. Our motto is consume less, operate sustainably and choose responsibly. We achieved a 22% reduction in our consumption of energy by 2012 compared to 2009 – significant progress in reducing our footprint. Our achievements in terms of reducing commuter travel and waste and making them more sustainable also contributed. We took responsibility for achieving a sustainable supply chain, meanwhile, by setting our suppliers the challenge of sustainable innovation. Before being selected, our suppliers have to meet a range of sustainability and transparency requirements. 7.1 Reducing our ecological footprint Sustainability and energy-saving initiatives resulted in September in a ‘Very Good’ BREEAM rating for the head 7.1.1 Energy consumption office on Gustav Mahlerlaan. Certification relates not only The 22% reduction in our energy consumption means to the building itself, but also to its management and use. considerable shrinkage of our ecological footprint. It was This made our head office the first existing large building largely achieved through the reduction in the number of in the Netherlands to qualify for BREEAM labelling in three branches and the use of floor space at head offices, following categories (BREEAM is the world’s foremost sustainability the integration of ABN AMRO and Fortis and the introduction label for buildings). International LEED Gold certification of flexible working concepts. Further energy savings were for Gustav Mahlerlaan is also expected to be awarded in achieved through the increasing use at ABN AMRO buildings early 2013. Our aim is to achieve over 100,000 sq.m of of sustainable innovations such as low-energy LED and sustainable office space by 2013 and 2014, and to qualify fluorescent lighting, combined with daylight and occupancy for an A-label and BREEAM certification. sensors. Cooling machines have been replaced with more energy-efficient models, and a number of buildings are ABN AMRO is co-founder of the Dutch Green Building using heat/cold storage. One hundred per cent of ABN Council (DGBC), the Dutch organisation for sustainable AMRO’s electricity consumption is purchased from green building and real estate, and acted as gold sponsor for sources using CertiQ certificates. Dutch Green Building Week 2012. Gustav Mahlerlaan was 55 We’ve reduced our energy consumption Further reduction in paper consumption: down by 22% compared with 2009. more than 23% in 2012 compared with 2010. 2009 2012 22 23 ABN AMRO used 100% CertiQ-certified green electricity in 2012. 28% of total annual expenditure placed with suppliers who work according to the FIRA system. ‘Very Good’ BREEAM certificate awarded to Gustav Mahlerlaan head office. 56 our environmental impact opened to the public during the ceremony to mark the The creation of flexible workplaces is making working award of BREEAM certification. at ABN AMRO progressively less time and locationspecific. Other energy-consumption initiatives The bank has had a new preferred supplier for taxi ABN AMRO, together with 15 major institutions and transport in and around Amsterdam since September businesses and the municipal authority in Utrecht 2012: Taxi-E’s cabs are all electrically powered and signed an Energy Covenant on 10 October 2012 – use exclusively green electricity. Sustainability Day. In doing so, the bank committed We encourage public transport use by paying for the itself to a 30% reduction in its energy consumption season tickets of employees who work at the bank at (2010 level) by the year 2020. least three days a week. This will apply to all employees ABN AMRO collaborated with GreenFox to convert in 2013. A total of 6,600 employees used a rail season old light fittings at six branches to make them more ticket in 2012. All head-office buildings are located close energy efficient. to a railway station. ABN AMRO became a partner in the European Union’s Electric cars and scooters are provided for use of GreenLight programme in 2012, committing the bank employees at the head office and a number of bank to further introduce energy-efficient lighting. We are branches, and charging stations for cars and scooters the first partner that is not itself active in the lighting have been installed at all head-office buildings. industry. ABN AMRO took part once again in 2012 in Earth Hour 7.1.4 Waste and the Night of the Night. ABN AMRO signed contracts on 7 March 2012 with two companies that will process the waste produced by the 7.1.2 Paper consumption bank for the next two years. We selected the two based The 23% reduction in paper consumption owed a great on the priority they give to innovation and sustainability deal to the fact that we are increasingly offering our services and the guarantee they provide of clear and reliable paperlessly. Half of our retail clients, for instance, no reporting in this area. At branches where more than longer receive printed bank statements. Contracts are 500 disposable coffee cups are used per week, those signed digitally wherever possible and digital confirmations cups are sorted and recycled in accordance with the are incorporated in our revamped processes. terms of the Second National Waste Management Plan. Our clients are making increasing use of mobile and Internet Banking. ABN AMRO launched its new website 7.2 Our suppliers in that regard in 2012, in which Bankmail has been given a more prominent place. Bankmail is the online mailbox We believe at ABN AMRO that our responsibility in the for Internet Banking and is used for communication with field of sustainability extends beyond our own internal the client. business operations. We also scrutinise our partners and suppliers within our purchasing policy, assessing them We are not only using less paper when communicating on the transparency and sustainability of their own with clients – printer and paper consumption are falling operations. in our internal operations too. We are using more mobile tools, such as tablets and laptops, and we’re buying ABN AMRO encourages its suppliers to apply the FIRA lighter copying and printer paper (75 grams instead of 80). Rating system, so we can make a properly founded Meanwhile, 98% of our paper is now FSC certified. assessment. FIRA records and monitors suppliers’ sustainability performance and processes. The FIRA 7.1.3 Mobility system ties in closely with international guidelines for In addition to reducing our energy and paper consumption, socially responsible business, such as ISO 26000 and we’re working hard at ABN AMRO to shrink our footprint the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). in terms of mobility. The following initiatives contributed in that respect: A substantial proportion of newly contracted expenditure was placed in 2012 with suppliers offering this transparency. 57 Our ambition is to raise the percentage of total annual expenditure to which this applies significantly in the year ahead, so that we can set, measure and achieve targets together with our suppliers. Having been a co-founder of FIRA in 2011, ABN AMRO sought in 2012 to build support for the system among other financial institutions. The bank in the Netherlands, not including its subsidiaries, is itself registered with FIRA. 7.3 Our plans for the future Further reducing our ecological footprint remains a key objective for ABN AMRO. We’re currently engaged in translating our sustainability strategy for the years ahead into substantive targets and are keen to go on reducing our energy and paper consumption. As of 1 April 2013, for instance, all our Dutch branches will be fitted with smart meters, which will enable us to monitor electricity consumption branch by branch and make the necessary adjustments. Our goal for our buildings in 2013 and 2014 is to obtain an energy A-label and BREEAM certificate for over 100,000 sq.m of office space. We want to encourage a further reduction in paper consumption by giving clients the option of ending printed communication for more and more products in the years ahead, and by communicating digitally even more frequently. At the same time, we will encourage our staff to use less paper by reducing the number of available printers and steadily promoting use of digital resources. We will continue to focus beyond our own internal operations in the years ahead. The bank will pursue opportunities, for instance, to enhance sustainability and transparency by increasing the number of FIRA-registered partners and suppliers. A sustainable building starts with us “It’s not just your building: your services and how people behave all count too.” 59 “I f you want a BREEAM certificate, you have to go beyond the sustainability What is regulations,” says Frank Folkers, Technical & Facility Director at the World Trade BREEAM? Center Amsterdam. “Rules for things like construction and building use are set out in the Construction Decree. But that’s just the baseline: after that, the real work starts.” Karin Kersten, Facility Management Director at ABN AMRO, agrees: “It doesn’t end with a BREEAM stands for Building Research certificate either. Making your business sustainable is an ongoing progress.” ABN AMRO’s Establishment Environmental Assessment head office picked up a very positive assessment last year from BREEAM, the most important Method and is the world’s foremost and prestigious sustainability standard for buildings. It’s the first existing office building in sustainability standard for buildings. the Netherlands to achieve a high rating in all three main categories. ABN AMRO’s head office on Gustav Mahlerlaan was awarded its BREEAM certificate during Dutch Green Building Building, use, Sharing Week in September 2012. Three categories are assessed: Asset (inherent features behaviour knowledge of the building), Building Management Folkers and Kersten know better than ABN AMRO and the World Trade Center and Use. These are then broken down anyone how many aspects are taken into (WTC) Amsterdam are both founding into nine sub-categories: management, account in this certification. Folkers: “It’s not partners of the Amsterdam Zuidas Green materials, transport, waste, water, health, just a matter of ticking a few boxes: you Business Club. Kersten: “Sharing our pollution, energy, land use and ecology. have to demonstrate each point individually.” knowledge with other businesses helps us Kersten: “Things aren’t always visible or become more sustainable together faster. Karin Kersten: “We set ourselves the easy to check. BREEAM is more than a label. The Green Business Club Rotterdam was goal of BREEAM certification in 2011 and It’s not just your building: your services and set up recently, representing a step toward we’re proud that our head office achieved how people behave all count too.” Fostering national roll-out, as intended in 2011. In 2011, such high ratings in the three categories. changes in behaviour is especially timeWTC Amsterdam was one of the first Dutch The next step is to look at our other consuming. Folkers: “We manage nine businesses to earn a BREEAM certificate. buildings too.” commercial buildings, with a total of about Folkers: “We were also a pilot project, 330 businesses. It’s not easy to get them all which meant we were able to contribute a singing from the same sheet. That’s why it’s lot to the questions and requirements.” so great that ABN AMRO was rated so highly in each of the three categories.” 60 our contribution to society our contribution to society 8 An important pillar of our strategy as a bank is that we use the financial expertise of our staff to the benefit of the community, thereby contributing to a better world. We do so via various forms of social sponsorship and by helping good causes. This way we can give something back to the community. 8.1 ABN AMRO Foundation Life skills The difference between not coping and standing on your As a leading bank in the Netherlands, ABN AMRO has an own feet, between being underprivileged and privileged, influence on society. We recognise that and take our social can sometimes be very small. Yet circumstances prevent role very seriously. There’s more to it that simply putting many people from bridging the gap. As a bank, we’re our clients centre stage. We want to support people who eager to help others take that step and give their future need it, even where there is no direct commercial benefit a positive new direction. This can take many forms: some in doing so. Because the quality of the community is employees coach reading skills in primary schools or read important to all our futures. stories to nursery children to encourage literacy. Others go into schools to give primary pupils lessons on handling ABN AMRO Foundation gives concrete form to our social money. We have employees too who act as budget commitment by encouraging bank employees to volunteer coaches to victims of traumatic events, who need help for social projects. The Foundation has a whole range of getting their finances back on track. Or who coach microrelevant initiatives and projects, some of which it has entrepreneurs and other business start-ups. What’s special developed itself, while others are the result of collaboration about ABN AMRO’s approach is the way employees are with social sponsorship. In many cases too it is our used: people for people! employees themselves who take the initiative. Activities focus primarily on: Social isolation 1. Promoting life skills Growing individualism and the relative ageing of the 2. Overcoming social isolation population are two factors intensifying isolation among old 3. Direct support in the form of food parcels people. We’re committed at ABN AMRO to helping this ‘forgotten’ group by organising social activities in which Large groups of employees feel inspired to get involved, staff help look after elderly people. Employees have been volunteering no fewer than 13,561 times in 2012 and visiting isolated old people for seven years now to bring putting all their energy into helping our social target groups. them a Christmas tree and decorate it together. They also help prepare and serve meals through Resto VanHarte – an organisation that brings together socially isolated 61 , 7,000 Sinterklaas packages 5,038 In 2012 employees volunteered for our community target groups 13,561 times. Food parcels 5,038 food parcels were provided this year by employees who gave up their Christmas packages and 1,000 members of staff helped make 7,000 Sinterklaas packages for families using food banks. ABN AMRO sponsored the following community initiatives in 2012: • Young Enterprise Organisation • KidsRights • Children’s Book Week • National Read Aloud Day and Children’s Jury • Richard Krajicek Foundation • Fund for Special Needs Sports • Youth Sports Fund ABN AMRO has been working intensively alongside the Dutch Charity Association (VFI) since 2012. 62 our contribution to society people at easily accessible restaurants in community ABN AMRO has also sponsored KidsRights since its centres and support facilities. creation, along with the Children’s Peace Prize, which is awarded each year to a child, anywhere in the world, Food banks who has served the rights of children in a unique way. The present crisis is impacting food banks in two ways: This ‘Nobel Prize for children’ encourages young people not only because the crisis is causing more people to turn and rewards initiatives that make a real difference to the to them for help, but also because the supply of food from personal environment of children and the community as businesses is dwindling. Our employees are highly aware a whole. of these issues and the bank once again gave them the option in 2012 of giving up all or part of their Christmas In the field of education, we have been the main sponsor package to fund 5,038 food parcels. Over 1,000 members for several years now of both the National Read Aloud of staff also helped make 7,000 Sinterklaas packages for Days and the Children’s Jury, to which we added principal families using the food banks. sponsorship of Children’s Book Week in 2011. Our goal in each case is to promote the pleasure of reading, while simultaneously improving literacy skills. As the principal 8.2 Community sponsorship sponsor of Children’s Book Week, the bank also supports the National Children’s Aid Fund’s Children’s Travelling Our community sponsorship policy reflects the idea that Book initiative, for which our staff collected about 20,000 we want to be a better bank contributing to a better world. books in 2012. To contribute to society as effectively as we can, we give our employees the opportunity to contribute themselves. ABN AMRO has sponsored sports activities for decades. There are three pillars to our community sponsorship The ABN AMRO World Tennis Tournament, ABN AMRO policy: World Wheelchair Tournament, a series of running events, Enterprise hockey and golf are among the most visible examples. Education To give an extra social boost to Dutch sport, we also Sport support a range of initiatives designed to make sport accessible to everyone. The Richard Krajicek Foundation, The bank plays a role at the heart of society. We try to which promotes physical exercise and social contact in take every opportunity to be innovative and progressive, deprived areas, and our support for the Youth Sports Fund and in so doing offer our clients optimum service. are good examples. In addition to the World Wheelchair That takes ambition, entrepreneurship and a professional Tournament, ABN AMRO is ‘FairShare Partner’ to the Fund mentality – skills we want to foster in young people too. for Special Needs Sports. That means ABN AMRO devotes That’s why we’re the founder and main sponsor of the 2% of its total sponsorship budget to disabled sports. Young Entrepreneurs Foundation, which offers young All our sponsorship events are, moreover, climate-neutral. people a specially designed programme supervised by an ABN AMRO coach on how to create a successful business We also invest in a better world outside the Netherlands. in sustainable goods. The management team of ABN AMRO Private Banking International helped set up a special bank for street Government, charities and, to an increasing extent, children in Mumbai, India. The aim of the ‘children’s bank’ businesses too have committed themselves in recent is to provide a safe depositary for the savings of homeless decades to improving society and promoting a cleaner children, teach them how to manage their money and environment. Significant strides have been made, but encourage them to get back into mainstream education. there’s always room for improvement. A new approach is The bank is run by children for children, volunteering under therefore called for, which creates opportunities for social adult supervision. The children’s bank has attracted over entrepreneurship. Social entrepreneurs develop innovative 300 clients since opening in March 2011, 236 of whom and sustainable solutions for our contemporary problems, now attend school. The children’s bank began to offer working on a healthy economy in which social, environawareness training – including medical issues – and skills mental and economic values go hand in hand. training for young people over the age of 18. The bank’s young clients get to spend a few days at camp 63 each year, to give them chance to just ‘be kids’. They also got to meet the Netherlands Cricket Team – sponsored by ABN AMRO – during a visit to Mumbai toward the end of 2012. We developed several new initiatives in 2012 too. ABN AMRO is now working intensively alongside the Dutch Charity Association (VFI). As a bank committed to the community, we are delighted to be able to handle the payments of the 120 charities affiliated to the VFI. ABN AMRO works with the VFI’s members to explore relevant themes like sustainable business practices and the harmonisation of payments within Europe (SEPA). 8.3 Our plans for the future We will continue to work on a more targeted, themebased approach to our community activities. Our goal is to have over 10,000 employees take part in 2013 in ABN AMRO Foundation’s community projects. Support for SUPPORT The ABN AMRO Support for SUPPORT Foundation, established within the bank itself, assists the SUPPORT Foundation in its efforts to provide refuge and guidance to street children in Mumbai, India. These children face a range of problems because of drugs and other circumstances. SUPPORT was founded in 1985 and is run by volunteers. It is one of only a few organisations in India with a rehabilitation programme for drug-dependent street children and probably the only one to also allow girls into its programme. SUPPORT provides children with accommodation and rebuilds their lives using an approach which has proven to be highly effective. First, addiction is tackled head-on. The children are then enrolled in school and given assistance in finding gainful employment. ABN AMRO raised funds for SUPPORT in a variety of ways last year, including a digital auction. A special auction site was set up, on which employees could not only bid for articles and services, but could offer them for sale too. Funds raised in earlier years went towards the purchase of a piece of land in 2008 for the purpose of building a new relief centre. Construction got under way in 2010, and is scheduled for completion in 2013. The relief centre will be able to accommodate 150 children. Victims often have other things on their minds than finance “The great thing about the ABN AMRO coaches is that there’s a morale-boosting effect tool.” 65 T he people who turn to Victim Support for help often bring a lot of baggage. Acts of coaches is that there’s a morale-boosting violence or even murder affecting their family mean that aside from terrible emotional effect too. They’re accepting their social problems, they can suffer financially too. “As you can imagine, though, victims have responsibility and setting an example for other things on their minds than finance,” says Mervyn de Groof, who works at ABN AMRO’s other companies. So I’m incredibly happy TOPS IT department. “So I’m happy to act as coach on behalf of ABN AMRO, to help them that so many people have volunteered to get their affairs back on track.” become coaches. They give victims the helping hand they need so that things don’t It mostly takes about five meetings to help get on top of them.” crime victims who need financial advice. Ineke Sybesma is Director of the Dutch Victim Support Fund: “The first and last meetings are with a case manager from Victim Support,” she says, “while the ones in between are one-on-one sessions with a coach from ABN AMRO. “I hear from the people involved that they really appreciate the bank’s help. They’ve lost touch with their finances for all sorts of reasons, and that “We got into financial trouble due uncertainty often hinders their recovery. to circumstances beyond our control. It’s great for them to go through everything appreciated the moral support. She’s not The coach from ABN AMRO helped with an expert. The ultimate goal is financial afraid to open her post anymore, because us list all our income and expenses. self-sufficiency.” it’s no longer all bad news. I also worked out He helped me make payment arrangefor her what a one-person household costs, ments and advised me to cancel all and how much she pays for her pets, for sorts of unnecessary insurance. That Opening the instance. Seeing it all in black and white immediately cut my monthly costs. post again clarifies things enormously.” He discovered tax allowances I wasn’t using, which gave me a “The first step when giving advice is to little extra too. I’ll be out of debt in sort out all the incomings and outgoings,” Morale boost January! I’ll be able to sleep soundly. De Groof says. “It sounds simple, but that The coach is a good person: he’s insight is often lacking. One lady I’m Sybesma: “If you ask me which is more brought me peace of mind and faith coaching, for instance, had a debt, which valuable: sponsoring in terms of cash or in the future.” we tackled straight away. I went with her hours, I’d say both. We need cash for to the organisation in question to ask for emergency assistance, but that can be Quote from a mother whose child her repayments to be deferred. In the event, quite impersonal without help in kind too. was murdered. I didn’t have to say much, but I know she The great thing about the ABN AMRO 66 appendices 67 appendices 68 appendix 1 appendix 1 key figures 2012 Key figures 2012 2012 2011 Total assets (in EUR millions) 394,404 404,682 Equity attributable to shareholders (in EUR millions) 14,018 11,400 Assets under management (in EUR millions) 163,100 146,600 Operating profit before taxes (in EUR millions) 1,151 680 Net profit (in EUR millions) 948 689 Bank branches in the Netherlands 408 470 Total number of FTEs 23,059 24,225 Countries and regions in which the bank is present 23 23 Financial households (in millions) 4.86 5.24 Of which are Preferred Banking clients (in millions) 0.53 0.51 Compliance, Corporate Office Number of Managing Board members 7 Number of Supervisory Board members 8 69 Sustainability policy in practice Project financing (Equator Principles) Category and number of reviewed projects 2012 Country classification A B C Total Emerging markets 6 6 High-income/OECD countries 6 3 9 Total 0 12 3 15 Review of project financing transactions by region Category and number of reviewed projects 2012 Region A B C Total Africa 2 2 Asia 2 2 Europe 6 3 9 Middle East 1 1 North America 0 Oceania 0 South America 1 1 Total 0 12 3 15 Review of project financing transactions by industry Category and number of reviewed projects 2012 Industry A B C Total Infrastructure 5 5 Mining 1 1 Oil & gas 4 4 Energy production 2 2 Telecom 3 3 Total 0 12 3 15 Review of project financing transactions based on assessment/status Category and number of reviewed projects 2012 Status A B C Total Concluded 2 2 4 Rejected* 1 1 Under consideration 7 7 Not realised 3 3 Total 0 12 3 15 * Projects were rejected for a variety of reasons, not solely on the basis of environmental and social aspects. 70 appendix 1 Sustainable operations 2012 2011 Number Approvals Qualified Rejections Pending Withdrawn Number Approvals Qualified Rejections approvals approvals Mining & metals 42 33 8 1 0 0 30 25 1 4 Oil & gas 30 17 9 1 0 3 24 23 1 0 Agricultural raw materials 22 16 3 1 0 2 21 16 5 0 Defence 32 20 4 4 1 3 13 11 1 1 Chemicals 9 5 1 0 3 0 5 4 0 1 Forestry 6 4 1 0 0 1 5 4 1 0 Energy & public utilities 14 11 2 0 1 0 5 4 0 1 Manufacturing industry 9 7 1 1 0 0 3 3 0 0 Other industries 27 17 8 2 0 0 3 3 0 0 Total 191 130 37 10 5 9 109 93 9 7 Sustainable operations ECT 2012 2011 Client Credit Total Client Credit Total acceptance acceptance Agricultural commodities 109 99 208 46 60 106 Energy commodities 132 86 218 82 67 149 Metals commodities 121 92 213 58 52 110 Energy 81 69 150 12 39 51 Transport 131 28 159 38 8 46 Other sectors 14 17 31 Total 588 391 979 236 226 462 Client focus Financing In EUR million 2012 2011 Sustainable financing Groenbank 485 587 Sustainable savings products Retail Banking In EUR million 2012 2011 3-year green savings deposit 157 157 5-year green savings deposit 77 78 Total green savings deposit 234 235 Sustainable savings products Private Banking In EUR million 2012 2011 3-year green savings deposit 6 6 5-year green savings deposit 8 8 Total green savings deposit 14 14 71 Sustainable investment services In EUR million 2012 Sustainable assets managed 3,310 Sustainable investment products 1,374 Sustainable savings 248 Total sustainable investment services 4,932 Internet Banking In millions 2012 2011 Number of households with Internet Banking 3.4 3.2 Employees Number of employees 2012 2011 Total number of FTEs 23,059 24,225 Retail Banking 6,335 6,680 Private Banking 3,648 3,746 Commercial Banking 3,249 3,547 Merchant Banking 2,142 1,998 Group Functions 7,685 8,254 Breakdown of employees by age Netherlands In percentages 2012 2011 < 24 1 1 24-29 7 7 30-39 26 27 40-49 35 34 50-59 26 26 > 60 5 4 Breakdown of employees by job level Netherlands In percentages 2012 2011 Other (up to 7) 49 59 8-9 20 16 10-11 20 16 Senior 9 7 Managing Board and Supervisory Board 2 2 72 appendix 1 Diversity of employees Netherlands In percentages by job level 2012* Men Women Man Vrouw Other (up to 7) 35 65 8-9 61 39 10-11 73 27 Senior 78 22 Managing Board and Supervisory Board 83 16 * Total may deviate from 100% due to rounding. Geographical distribution of employees In percentages 2012 2011 Netherlands 84 85 Europe (other) 12 9 Asia 3 2 USA 1 1 Other <1 <1 Absenteeism Netherlands In percentages 2012 2011 Absenteeism (trend total) 3.86 4.19 Breakdown of employment contracts In percentages 2012 2011 Staff, permanent 86 86 Staff, temporary 4 3 Agency staff 4 4 Contract staff 6 7 Breakdown of workforce by employment contract In percentages 2012 2011 Full-time – Women 24 24 Full-time – Men 50 49 Part-time – Women 24 25 Part-time – Men 2 2 External inand outflow In numbers 2012 2011 Inflow (2012) 1,583 3,111 Outflow (2012) 2,749 5,428 73 Staff and training costs 2012 2011 In EUR millions (unless stated otherwise) Netherlands Worldwide Total wage costs 1,506 1,964 Total staff costs 1,948 2,517 Total staff and other operating costs 3,918 4,956 Total training costs 41 12* Training costs/wage costs (in percentages) 2 1 Wage costs per FTE 78,072 81,073 Staff costs per FTE 100,985 103,901 Staff and other operating costs per FTE 203,110 204,582 * Substantial difference due to new calculation method in 2012; the old method would have resulted in a slight increase. 74 appendix 1 Environment CO2 reduction In percentages CO2 reduction between 2009 and 2012 22.46 Energy consumption (aim is to achieve 100% coverage) kWh 2012 GJ kTon CO2 kWh 2011 GJ kTon CO2 Energy 252,099,425 907,900 22.52 281,409,246 1,013,073 32.9 Per sq.m (kWh) 310.34 1.12 344 1.24 Per 36h FTE (kWh) 10,933 39 11,616 41.8 Electricity (in kWh Data centres 57,359,230 206,493 0.0 57,461,597 206,862 0.0 Head offices 46,717,006 168,181 0.0 49,615,962 178,617 0.0 Offices 8,971,431 32,297 0.0 11,563,474 41,629 0.0 Bank branches 43,961,805 158,262 0.0 55,297,847 199,072 0.0 ATMs 3,245,300 11,683 0.0 3,191,755 11,490 0.0 Total electricity consumed 160,254,772 576,917 3.97 177,130,635 637,670 10.5* * Of total. Natural gas/Heating/Cooling (in kWh) Data centres 4,125,930 14,853 0.83 3,550,000 12,780 0.7 Head offices 8,213,844 29,570 1.66 10,290,000 37,044 2.0 Offices 8,780,358 31,609 1.77 15,370,000 55,332 3.1 Bank branches 38,294,521 137,860 7.74 48,900,000 176,040 9.9 Total natural gas 59,414,653 213,893 12.00 78,110,000 281,196 15.7 Total district heating 32,430,000 117,090 6.55 18,873,889 67,946 5.2 Total cooling 7,294,722 26,261 1.5 Total remaining sources of natural gas, district heating and cooling 91,844,653 330,983 18.55 104,278,611 375,403 22.4 kWh Green kWh Regular kWh Green kWh Regular Total energy consumption 150,000,000 102,099,425 150,000,000 131,409,038 * Including district cooling. 75 Paper consumption Netherlands Based on 80% coverage 2012 2011 Reduction in 2012 compared with 2010 (%) 23.4 Total in tons (based on FTEs) 2,660 3,047 Total in kg per FTE 137.9 125.8 Paper with FSC eco label (in tons) 2,601 2,962 Paper without FSC eco label (in tons) 59 85 Business trips Netherlands 2012 Lease cars Total distance travelled by lease cars in km 112,743,461 Total CO2 emissions lease cars (in kTon CO2) 19.17 Average km per lease car (2012) 36,989 Average km per FTE (2012) 5,845 Business air travel (in km) Short-haul (up to 500 km) 184,915 613,747 Long-haul 36,526,186 43,252,817 Total number (in km) 36,711,101 43,866,565 Business air travel (number of flights) Short-haul (up to 500 km) 761 1,714 Long-haul 10,396 11,864 Total number of flights 11,157 13,578 CO2 emissions (in kTon CO2) Short-haul (up to 500 km) 0.03 0.11 Long-haul 4.02 4.76 Total (in kTonCO2) 4.05 4.87 Total CO2 emissions Emissions calculated using Greenhouse Gas Protocol 2012 2011* kWh/km GJ kTon CO2 kWh/km GJ kTon CO2 Electricity (in kilotons) 160,254,772 576,917 3.97 177,130,635 637,670 10.50 Natural gas, heating and cooling (in kilotons) 91,844,653 330,983 18.60 104,278,611 375,403 22.40 Business trips: Lease cars (in kilotons) 112,743,461 19.20 54,769,811 9.31 Business air travel 36,711,101 4.10 43,866,564 4.87 Total CO2 in kTons 45.70 47.08 CO2 emissions in tons per FTE 2.30 1.94 * Lease car figures for 2011 are based on Q1 and Q2 2011. 76 appendix 1 Waste 2012 2011 tons % kg/FTE tons % kg/FTE Total kg per FTE 193 157 Total 3,731 100 3,809 100 Other 303 8.1 456 12 Containing paper 2,185 58.6 1,908 50 Plastic cups 26 0.7 24 1 Residual waste 1,217 32.6 1,419 37 Items specified as “hazardous materials” (e.g. batteries and empty toner cartridges) 12.36 7.5 Water 2012 Total per m per FTE 3 17.8 Total m3 (reported by Innax) 344,240 Public transport season ticket 2012 2011 Number of employees 6,031 6,913 Catering In percentages 2012 2011 Sustainable catering product range (total in the Netherlands) 70 70 Sustainable coffee supplied centrally 100 100 Community Volunteer activities of staff in the Netherlands In percentages 2012 2011 Net contribution devoted directly to social projects 1,015,000 Number of times employees volunteered (excl. food parcel campaign) 13,561 9,172 Number of food parcels 5,038 Number of projects 403 400 Social Donations and sponsoring 2012 Donations 25,000 Sponsoring 91,600 77 appendix 2 basis for reporting We publish the Sustainability Report for all our clients, Reporting standards employees, shareholders, non-governmental organisations, We took a number of external standards and guidelines sustainability rating agencies, investors and anyone else as our basis when compiling this Sustainability Report. who is interested in the bank’s performance in the area The Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) provides a framework of sustainability. It covers the period from 1 January 2012 within which the completeness of our reported data can to 31 December 2012 inclusive and was published at the be checked. The GRI index provides an overview of how same time as our Annual Report, on 1 March 2013. we score in respect of the GRI indicators and can be found at abnamro.com/sustainability under Reporting. Data collection We also consulted the GRI’s Financial Services Supplement. Unless specified otherwise, this report sets out the For our carbon reporting, we used the guidelines of the sustainability results of the entire ABN AMRO organisation Greenhouse Gas Protocol. worldwide. To enable comparison with the report for 2011, the same quantitative results are presented in this Differences compared to 2011 Sustainability Report. A more comprehensive overview is, We have made a number of changes with respect to the however, now provided. Full details of the bank’s financial Sustainability Report for 2011, to enhance transparency, results can be found in the Annual Report 2012 of ABN readability and completeness: AMRO N.V. Where possible, quantitative support is provided for data and goals. Sustainability enjoys a broad base of support across the The report’s focus in 2011 was on the Netherlands. ABN AMRO organisation. Each business unit therefore The 2012 report looks at the organisation worldwide. reports its own economic, environmental and social The Sustainability Report 2012 was published at the performance in terms of both qualitative and quantitative same time as the Annual Report 2012 on 1 March 2013. data. We also draw on feedback from our internal and external stakeholders. The sustainability strategy and Future results set out in this report correspond with the We aim to report ABN AMRO’s sustainability results for the sustainability reporting in the bank’s Annual Report for 2012. year in a transparent, structured, accurate, validated and readable manner. Future reporting – whether integrated Due to the merger of two banks, ABN AMRO has not with the Annual Report or published as a separate been reporting as a new bank for long. We have been Sustainability Report – will reflect that goal. We will reporting quantitative sustainability data since 2010 and continue to work, therefore, to improve the quality of continue to develop in that regard. Although the data in this reporting. publication has not been verified externally, the information is, to the best of our knowledge, accurate and reliable. 78 appendix 3 appendix 3 our stakeholders and most important topics of discussion Stakeholders Financial Subject ING, Delta Loyd, Rabobank, PGGM, Robeco, Sustainability indicator TMP, Blackrock, JP Morgan, HFC, UBS, Investment policy, exclusion policy, Exclusion List Vanguard, Responsibility, Sarasin, DWM, Impact investing BlueOrchard, Nordea, Syzgroup, PYMWYMIC, OECD guidelines Eumedion Sustainable product offering Launch of micro-credit investment fund Dutch Association of Investors for Sustainable Sustainable investment policy Development (VBDO) ABN AMRO is a member of the VBDO board Suppliers Over 120 ABN AMRO suppliers were informed about our sustainability strategy, view of sustainable purchasing, and FIRA, by Hans Kròder (international ISO 26000 expert) and others Media De Financiële Telegraaf Article: Value of biodiversity to investors Article: Sustainable investment pays RTL Z ´Watt nu´ ABN AMRO sustainability policy NGOs Amnesty International ABN AMRO’s human rights policy Business & Human Rights Watch Offshore business Fair Bank Guide Land Grabbing Abroad Study Energy Study Ship-Breaking Study Six-monthly updates Greenpeace Deforestation in Indonesia Funding sustainable power generation Own sustainable power generation efforts Friends of the Earth Netherlands Sustainable energy (Milieudefensie) Oxfam Novib Land grabbing Nature and Environment Foundation Sun seeks Roof 2 (Stichting Natuur en Milieu) World Wide Fund for Nature Netherlands (WNF) Our stakeholder responsibilities for oil and gas extraction 79 Stakeholders Government organisations Subject NL Agency Sharing knowledge on creating and funding Energy Service Companies (ESCOs) EU GreenLight programme ABN AMRO is now an official partner Explosive Ordinance Disposal ABN AMRO defence policy Ministry of Foreign Affairs UN Business & Human Rights Ministry of Economic Affairs Sustainable investment policy Policy review energy industry Ministry of Finance Implementation of sustainability criteria in tenders Other Dutch Green Building Week Sustainable building e-Decentraal Local sustainable energy companies FNV mondiaal (trade union initiative) Ship-breaking project Green Finance Lab Sustainable urban environment Holland Financial Centre Creation of green investment company. Ongoing project International Organisation of Employers OECD guidelines and other topics KLM Use of bio-kerosene MVO Nederland (CSR Netherlands) Civilisation master class Circular economy NT Transport Green in Transport and Logistics On values Investment policy Rotterdam Climate Initiative Finance for energy conservation Round Table ESG Practitioners NL Sustainability risks Sustainable Finance Lab Involvement in MVO Nederland event Cultural change in sustainable development context Sustainalytics Questionnaire Investment policy TBLI Impact Investing Conference. ABN AMRO acts as sponsor TEXPERIUM ‘Upcycling’ of ABN AMRO bank business clothing UN Forum on Business & Human Rights Human rights policy Confederation of Netherlands Industry and Bimonthly sustainability meetings Employers (VNO-NCW) Energy policy review National Tenants’ Association (Woonbond) Solar panels for tenants 80 appendix 4 appendix 4 objectives and performance in 2012 Subject Objective reported in 2011 Performance in 2012 Our sustainability strategy Continue to take responsibility in Finance policy for clients based on Environmental the supply chain and in society Impact Assessment (ESE) Greater focus on client dialogue and ongoing supplier dialogue Became Green Award Incentive Provider Social Investment Fund of € 10 million Close alignment with society by Stakeholder management translating wishes and demands into Local collaboration with community organisations the bank’s sustainability policy Financial education programmes Mortgage Care Team Transparency Simplification of product offering Product descriptions and conditions rewritten in plain language Applying the sustainability Further integrate environmental, Strong focus on implementation of sustainability policy policy to our operations social and ethical considerations Approval of Exclusion List by the Group Risk Committee into risk management Approval of sustainability policy for lending by the Group Risk Committee Extension of standard credit application to include additional sustainability questions Work with stakeholders to update the Conversations with clients, experts and colleagues Sustainability Risk Management Framework on the new policy for the energy sector Make an ongoing contribution to the Commenced application of UN Guiding Principles on international human rights debate Business and Human Rights Dedicating ourselves Continue to roll out Capital4Change Even closer involvement in impact investing in 2012 to the client strategy (impact investing) Social Impact Fund created to bring social entrepreneurs into contact with potential investors Expand advisory role in philanthropy New service: philanthropy advice to wealthy clients in and socially responsible investment the Netherlands In addition to advice, the service offers inspiration, information and financial solutions for strategic philanthropy Promote recycling bank-wide with client When the new corporate clothing line was introduced, 6,000 old and employee panels garments were collected by Salvation Army ReShare. Possible ways of reusing that clothing in a creative way are now being explored in collaboration with the We Beat the Mountain foundation Continue Plain Language project Our letters, product terms and conditions, offers and other texts are being written in plain language Remain involved in platforms such Active involvement in the Sustainable Shipping Initiative to make as the Sustainable Shipping Initiative a positive difference 81 Subject Objective reported in 2011 Performance in 2012 Pursue implementation of Customer Around 10,000 employees working according to Customer Excellence Excellence principles. There are 150 certified CE experts working at the bank. The result is apparent in the steady rise in client satisfaction since CE was introduced C&MB: further expand range of Lease for Start-ups sustainable products and services Pilot with Seeds in 2012 Asbestos removal/solar panel installation (agriculture) Start-up Bootcamp (sponsor since 2012) New partnership for ABN AMRO with Social Enterprise NL Market Insights app, Access Online app, Quick Banking Growth & Innovation Desk set up in 2012 Energy Saving Loan since beginning of 2012 Dialogue with our stakeholders Continue to promote stakeholder dialogue Potential sustainable scenarios explored in dialogue with and involvement a variety of stakeholders Screening by client panels of our ideas on the sustainable strategy to be followed Various sustainable initiatives developed for staff (discussion platform, staff magazine, sessions) Our emphasis on employees Continue to implement the people strategy Organised day for all Dutch managers at which the (embed core values Trusted, Professional Managing Board discussed the future direction of the bank and Ambitious in the corporate culture, Focus on sustainable change strengthen reputation as preferred employer, etc.) Raise awareness of sustainability within Helped employees develop so they are prepared for the organisation the future (employability) Leadership Development Culture Scan Diversity Performance management Roll out New World of Work 15,000 employees in the Netherlands were introduced to the possibilities of the New World of Work in 2012 Continue to pursue diversity targets We made further progress toward our Talent to the Top (Talent to the Top) objectives in 2012. The number of women in senior management rose to 16% and in upper middle-management to 22% 1 member of the Managing Board and 2 members of the Supervisory Board are women Successful ‘Do or Die-versity’ conference for over 400 external and internal participants Launched ‘selective perception programme’ for recruitment and selection All business units developed their own activities in the area of gender diversity to promote professional development Growth & Innovation Desk set up in 2012 82 appendix 4 Subject Objective reported in 2011 Performance in 2012 Our environmental impact Further reduce paper consumption (20% Achieved reduction in 2012 compared with 2009) Reduce energy consumption by Achieved 20% (compared with 2009) Use sustainable energy wherever ‘Green power’ certified by CertiQ used at all ABN AMRO’s possible Dutch premises in 2012 LEED and BREEAM certification for head BREEAM certificate with ‘Very Good’ rating presented to office at Gustav Mahlerlaan ABN AMRO on 17 September 2012 for the head office on Gustav Mahlerlaan Steps taken toward achieving LEED Gold status for that building LEED certification anticipated at end of 2012/beginning of 2013 Grow Green Business Club into a Green Business Club Netherlands set up in 2012: national nationwide organisation umbrella organisation for local Green Business Clubs Ambition for 2013: create a total of ten Green Business Clubs Increase sustainable purchasing (FIRA) ABN AMRO placed 28% of its total annual expenditure in 2012 of office supplies, office furnishing, with suppliers that comply with FIRA standards catering, etc. Research into the possibility of further Energy Efficiency Plan 2013-16 drawn up in 2012 for the CO2 reduction in 2012 Gustav Mahlerlaan and Foppingadreef buildings. This showed that a further CO2 reduction of 5.44% is possible A CO2 reduction plan was drawn up for the Data Centres: introduction from 2012. Objective: reduce Power Usage Effectiveness value 50% of products served in staff Organic catering range now 70% of the total restaurants to be organic by 2012 Our contribution to society Continuation of FairShare partnership FairShare partnership achieved with Fund for Special Needs Sports Richard Krajicek Foundation Collaboration with Youth Sports Fund Sponsorship initiatives: Children’s Peace Children’s Peace Prize Prize, SUPPORT and Victim Support Fund National Read Aloud Days Principal sponsor Children’s Book Week Collaboration with Dutch Charity Association (VFI) Actively encourage staff to participate In 2012 employees volunteered for our community target groups in socially responsible projects via 13,561 times ABN AMRO Foundation 83 84 appendix 5 appendix 5 glossary Abbreviations Crowdfunding Obtaining financing and conducting fundraising BREEAM Building Research Establishment Environmental via an internet platform whereby investors can invest small Assessment Method amounts of money in a project or start-up. ESE Environmental, Social, Ethical NWW The New World of Work Due diligence Research, often performed during mergers LAP2 Second National Waste Management Plan and acquisitions, to establish the correctness of the information LEED Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design presented to the buyer of a company and to identify the risks and opportunities of the company being acquired. Terms Energy Covenant Utrecht (ECU) A covenant aimed at reducing energy consumption in the Utrecht region of the Netherlands. All-in fee An asset management fee whereby no additional costs are charged on top of the fee paid by the client. Equator Principles A framework for credit risk management The all-in fee includes transaction costs and all costs incurred that is used to establish, assess and control the social and by ABN AMRO MeesPierson in managing the portfolio and environmental risks involved in project finance. informing the client. European Investment Fund (EIF) An agency of the European Basel Convention An international agreement to control crossUnion that finances small and medium-sized businesses. border transport and removal of toxic waste. FIRA International guidelines aimed at ensuring that suppliers Budget-neutral Something that yields as much money as it gradually improve their sustainability performance. costs over time. Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) An international organisation Central Works Council (CWC) The overarching works council that establishes guidelines for corporate sustainability reporting. made up of representatives from the four works councils of ABN AMRO TOPS, Retail & Private Banking, Group Functions Global Sustainability Risk Index An index created by and Commercial & Merchant Banking and from the works ABN AMRO for determining the risks involved in credit transcouncils of ABN AMRO’s subsidiaries. actions, by country and sub-sector. CertiQ certification The only valid certification in the Green Label greenhouse A greenhouse used by businesses Netherlands awarded for energy generated by sustainable to grow crops while reducing their impact on the environment, sources (sun, water, wind and biomass materials). e.g. by consuming less energy. The government has charged CertiQ with this responsibility. Certificates issued by CertiQ can be traded within Europe. 85 Heat/cold storage A method of storing energy in the form of UK Guidance on Board Effectiveness Part of a number heat and cold in the ground, allowing supply and demand to be of guidelines to help businesses apply the principles of the matched. The cold in winter can be used to cool buildings in the UK Corporate Governance Code in the United Kingdom. summer, and the stored solar heat can be used in the winter to heat buildings. Heat/cold storage is used mainly in buildings, UN Global Compact An initiative of the United Nations aimed industry and greenhouse cultivation. at developing and applying universal principles on human rights, labour conditions, the environment and anti-corruption. Heat exchange A fuel-efficient way to generate heat and electricity in a single process. UN Guiding Principles for Business and Human Rights These guiding principles of the UN offer a global standard Impact investing Investing in solutions to social and environfor preventing and addressing the risk of the negative effects mental issues, while achieving financial returns. of economic activity on human rights. ISO 26000 Guidelines for socially responsible business. UNPRI The UN principles for responsible investment. OECD guidelines These guidelines from the Organisation for Whistleblowing policy A policy for dealing with improper Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) set out what conduct within an organisation. Employees have the opportunity the Dutch government (and 43 other governments) expects of to report irregularities. businesses abroad in terms of sustainability. The guidelines deal with issues such as chain responsibility, human rights, child labour, the environment and corruption. SEPA The Single Euro Payments Area (SEPA) encompasses the 27 member states of the EU plus Iceland, Liechtenstein, Norway and Switzerland. Within this area, individuals and businesses can make and receive domestic and international payments in a uniform manner. Sustainability Advisory Board This ABN AMRO body consists of professionals from various sectors who monitor the socially responsible investment processes for DPM. Sustainable employability Sustainable employability is the extent to which employees are willing and able to remain productive, motivated and healthy, within or outside the organisation. Sustainable Investment Mandate Investment in companies that conduct sustainable business operations. These companies are frontrunners in striking and maintaining a balance between people, planet and profit. Sustainable Shipping Initiative An initiative under which the biggest shipping parties work together with non-governmental organisations to improve sustainability of the shipping industry. 86 Contact details Address ABN AMRO Bank N.V. Sustainable Development Gustav Mahlerlaan 10 1082 PP Amsterdam Telephone 0900 0024 Internet abnamro.com/sustainability Email duurzaamheid@nl.abnamro.com foundation@nl.abnamro.com
