1. HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLE Principle 1: Diaspora Design Build Limited (DDBL) as a company considers it of great importance for the whole fraternity to uphold the nationally and internationally proclaimed human rights by supporting, respecting and protecting or honoring the rights. DDBL’s goal is to influence our employees and business partners to the Universal Declaration of Human rights and environmental protection. Based on our commitments we have set an ethics and policy committee that has been tasked to come up with the Company’s Ethic’s and Code of Conduct which will be approved by the top management in the coming year. Our code of conduct will conform to the newly launched, 26000 standards launched by the Kenya Bureau of Standards. We have in place our company values which emphasizes the upholding of human rights these include among others:  Integrity,  Discipline ,  Ability to manage change ,  Trustworthiness  Excellence in execution and  Accountability.  Implementation Our work policy requires that when a contract or tender is received the local people around the area where the project is going to be done are given priority for hire on both skilled and unskilled labour. This enables improving the welfare of the communities surrounding the project. This ensures the community fully gains from the initiation of the project to the completion. We will require all our subcontractors, suppliers and business partners to conform and make declarations in support for human rights protection. There are also risk assessment procedures that have been put in place by the company through the Quality management system. This enables a good assessment of the health and safety of workers that is undertaken from the onset up to completion of projects. DDBL ensures that the workers are safe at all times on site through provision of basic needs which include: food, water and appropriate work attire. The company is endeavoring to ensure that it does not only provide a safe working environment but also offering equal opportunity for staff development. Our MD has always emphasized that once you are a member of the DDBL fraternity we are always going to monitor how you are improving yourself both personally and professionally. “Growth and development in an important concept for our MD” This year the company has worked hard to ensure that the staff work efficiently. To improve staff retention the company has offered training opportunities through measuring the staff involvement in professional development programs like enrolling to professional courses. This is to improve staff skills and ultimately improve staff performance. A random and frequent site visits and checks also ensure that the safety standards are adhered to. We continuously strive to monitor and evaluate progress made. The quality Assurance Manager is tasked to visit sites monthly and conduct random staff meeting with our junior labor force to assess human rights issues and a report provided to the senior management. In the last Site Assessment report, it was established that there is a good onsite working relationships. There is emphasis to respect staff mates and appreciate the differences and using the diversity in professional, economic backgrounds and opinions towards positive achievements. To achieve continuous growth, we have established suggestion boxes that have been placed in the rest rooms for the purpose of collecting various opinions that are opened and reviewed every month by the Quality Assurance manager to address complaints and suggestions made by our labor force. Our MD calls upon all staff to always take an initiative to be a solution and avoid blame game at all times. In actual sense” blame game has no room” In the coming year DDBL is putting in place a mechanism to handle complaints from clients and staff to ensure that problems and needs of the staff and clients are met. This will be done through an established consultative process with all stakeholders. Through the training of employees DDBL will raise awareness on the various human rights principles that will be observed in all company activities. Principle 2: Actions:  Audits:In order to ensure that there are no human rights violations DDBL constantly visits the construction sites and monitors work progress and staff relationships in site with the community and with the head quarters on a weekly basis and thereafter a monthly audit report is provided by the Quality Management department.  Knowledge: the company has put in place easy access and flow of information and company knowledge resources like the company profile, policies, standard operating procedures and manuals. This enables the staff to be empowered with information and perform better. Through the quality management we shall do a gap analysis in our standard operation procedures in our departments and develop new and innovative tools to address the gaps and ensure that we are achieving intended outcome efficiently, profitably and to the highest standard.  Communication:there is a very clear set communication system and processes that enables us to have good practice and progress . This also offers a good accountability and feedback process which is a necessary measure of how successful the system is. There is constant communication to all staff the changes and required standards that come along with them which are monitored using relevant monitoring and evaluation tools.  Construction work progress:– on site and out of sitethere has been put in place the professional personnel to monitor this process while on site and also valuation of the work progress is done to ensure that there is no waste of time , money and labour.  Results and Impact of Business by management:the company ensures that for every project done there is an analysis of how successful the execution was in terms of meeting the timeline and good standards in final product and profitability of the project done. In addition the development of staff and community around as a result of the project. The management and employees are all resourced from diverse backgrounds in ethnicity, gender and age. Through weekly targets and KPI’s the management closely monitor the performance of staff and targets to improve the company business processes and results. An open system of communication and reward of successful projects and staff. In the last year, a staff reward system has been established to reward the best staff every month. Through monitoring and evaluation and KPI’s – DDBL ensures that performance standards are maintained. The management also holds monthly meetings to discuss the highs and lows for every staff for every project site. This is to enable us make improvements continuously. 2. LABOUR PRINCIPLES Principle 3: DDBL as a company:  Upholds freedom of Association and effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining  Upholds the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour.  Upholds the effective abolition of child labour  Upholds the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. DDBL ensures the staffs have the freedom of joining the preferred choice of labour organizations. The company ensures collective bargaining when it comes to establishing standard operating procedures and any improvements of the processes. The company encourages employees to take ownership of the processes. Through the above processes in project management the company ensures that a genuine and constructive negotiation is done with the client and the staff to be involved in the project and an agreement is reached on how to carry out the project in terms of timelines, labour, material and financial requirements. There is also put on place measure to ensure that tenders are discussed with relevance to meet the requirements of timelines, and settling disputes thus reaching a mutual collective agreement through an achievable work plan. The company ensures that there is a good collective bargaining process during the bidding stage, then tendering stage. The company ensures that there is sufficient information sharing, consultation, joint assessment and implementation of the mutual agreements. The company is putting in place processes that will address settling of disputes in a respectable and mutually agreed manner. The company aims to create a process of collective bargaining by workers so that the workers are empowered through statutory provisions and the international labour laws to join trade unions or organizations that will address employee needs. As part of the process, we joined the Master’s Builders Association to streamline this. Collective bargaining will be a constructive forum for the company to address the working conditions, terms of employment and relations between the MD, directors, employees and workers. Our company aims to bring about collective bargaining as supervisory machinery because in the process employees will understand the usefulness of decisions made. DDBL ensures that staffs are employed on an equal rights platform. At DDBL there is a good balance on the female to male employee ratio which by now stands at 50/50 ratio. The company ensures that no member of staff any form of discrimination or exclusion on the basis of tribe, religious and social background, race. Here people have an equal opportunity in applying for available job vacancies and undergo a free and fair qualification and hiring process. Action: The company has been recommended to provide workers representatives with facilities to assist in the development of an effective collective agreement. This will be implemented in the coming year. They are currently in the process of joining a cooperative union. Principle 4: At DDBL the company ensures that: There is adherence to provisions of our statutory laws and regulations , by ensuring we follow the statutory requirements in terms of work conditions , wages , days of work ( Hours) and work relations, contracts , and work service agreements.. The employees intended for hire are provided with adequate information entailing what the job requires and what will be expected as an outcome. In dealing with other businesses the company ensures contracts are provided stating clearly the terms of service, the voluntary choice to stay or leave the job, wage agreement and penalties associated with departure of work. As a business we encourage due diligence, integrity and excellence in our business dealings. It is the Company's policy to provide leave to employees under various conditions. The types of leave provided to employees are; Annual Leave, Sick Leave, Maternity Leave, Paternity Leave, Study Leave, Compassionate Leave. All employees are entitled to paid leave, be it annual, maternity, sick, study or compassionate. It is the responsibility of each employee to apply for leave on the anniversary date or as per the leave plan. However, the Human Resources Department, which maintains leave records, may prompt employees to apply for leave. Principle 5. As a company DDBL upholds the national law of observing the minimum age for admission to work that in Kenya must not be less than the legal age of 18 years. At no time does DDBL allow employment of any child. Any individual seeking employment must meet the minimum working age of 18 years. The proof of this is shown by producing a national identity card. All our staff can only be hired with a national Identity card, on the least a National Identity waiting card. The company recognizes the importance of young people to engage in decent work and need protection from hazardous work and other forms of child labor. DDBL ensures that no forms of exploitation are practiced in our work environment. These include working for very long hours (slavery), very low and undeserved wages and illegal work processes. DDBL has eliminated any form of child labour and we have not received any report of any violations. The Human Resource and Quality Assurance Department randomly inspect the books to ensure compliance Our work practice value is excellence and our service is Zero defects no matter what. That means employing a child would result in illiterate work force , under skilled , unqualified workers jeopardizing future improvement of skills in the work force and business opportunities. At DDBL we ensure that only people who are of the statutory age of 18 years are employed for both skilled and unskilled workers. As a company we can reiterate that we have eliminated any possibilities of having child labour and uphold the rights of children to be children. The subcontractors and suppliers and other businesses associated must also commit to abide with the statutory age requirements and combating child labour. Principle 6: As a company the DDBL fraternity ensures that there is no discrimination based on race, colour, sex, religion, political affiliation nationality and social origin. The confidentiality of information by the human resources department also ensures that no sensitive information that can compromise an employee’s status is leaked. Other aspects of work where the company is combating discrimination and ensuring equality in access to employment, training opportunities and conditions of employment. During the following processes equality and discrimination is eliminated: Recruitment: The employment opportunities (vacancies) available is publicly announce on our company website. The interested people apply for the job position. The job announced shows clearly the job requirements and responsibilities that would be required of the person. Thereafter the applications are received and some positions may require short listing using the parameters provided for the job position. Finally the shortlisted persons are called for an interview which is conducted fairly and rigorously and the successful candidate after the process is employed. Remuneration The remuneration provided is in line with statutory requirements. The remunerations are all subjected to taxation according to the statutory provisions and job salary brackets. Other remuneration is determined by the additional skills that the individual brings in and this is discussed at the point of employment and so the individual is very clear on the salary they will be receiving for their services. The consent of the employee is received through signing contracts. The job contract Covers other conditions of employment and combats discrimination in any form . these areas covered in the contract include :remuneration , hours of rest, holidays , maternity protection , security of tenure , job assignments and termination of employment. Action / Implementation  There are company policies which ensure recruitment, placement training and staff development, is purely on qualifications , skills and experience . These can also be easily measured with assessment tools.  Company policies and procedures are issued to all employees to make them aware of the practices required and desired performance or outcome.  Staff training on nondiscrimination policies and practices is on schedule for the coming year.  Job requirements are done in a way that it does not disadvantage any group of people.  A transparent and accessible up to date records on recruitment, training and promotion that shows transparent view of opportunities for employees and their progress in the organization.  The company has also put in place procedures for addressing client and employee complaint and remedial processes in negotiation and collective agreement contexts.  Auditing of the structures and systems that bottleneck, stifle or prevent employees from raising concerns and grievances.  At DDBL we have a professional development program where employees are required to indicate the external development activities to show what they are involved in and any kind of training that will lead to professional and personal development through an educational loaning programme. Outcome: Our company has maintained a good reputation of offering equal employment, promotion, training, remuneration, growth and development opportunities both personally and professionally. Disciplinary action is taken against those who violate these principles. 3. ENVIRONMENTAL PRINCIPLES Principle 7: Principle Statement : DDBL recognizes the importance of planning environmental factors into tall projects at the earliest possible stage to prevent any pollution for environment. This Construction, Environment and Social Management Plan has been prepared to describe how DDBL intends to manage, control and coordinate all works in order to protect the environment around the projects which may be affected by the operations. Whilst this Plan provides the intention and the area where the Contractor will exercise control to ensure safe operation of the works, detailed procedures will be supplemented by Environment Procedures which will be issued to cover the various operations. For this Environment and Social Management Plan to be effective, it is essential that the management and supervisory staff of DDBL are familiar with the implementation of the relevant requirements of the Plan. All DDBL management and supervisory personnel will therefore be provided with a copy of the plan. A copy will also be provided to each Subcontractor. DDBL will actively seek the support of all operatives engaged on the project to look after the Environment of themselves and their colleagues by working within the spirit of this Environment and Social Management Plan. Principle 8: Any person found to be disregarding the requirements of the plan would be subject to disciplinary action. This Plan and Environment Procedures are subject to periodic review and will be updated when new technology, construction method, new legislation or new process is introduced. The issuance of these documents will be in accordance with the issuance of procedures. 2.1.1 The Stakeholders The environment participants in any of our project are:  Client  National Environmental Management Council  District Council: District Natural Resource Officer, The District Council  Village Development Committees  Communities near the project Principle 9: Construction project execution can be divided into 4 phases: a)Mobilization phase The mobilization phase of a project will entail the following activities: Construction of campsites, including Resident Engineer’s house, site offices, workshops, material and equipment storage, preparation yards and sanitation facilities Identification of material borrow sources and sources of water for domestic use and construction works Importation of materials and parts Transport of fuel and construction materials from sources to the construction site b) Construction phase The construction phase of any project will involve the following major activities:Demolitions, Excavation , Building, Landscaping, Civil works, Electrical work, Mechanical work C) Demobilization phase The main activities during demobilization phase will engross the following: Collection and disposal of construction materials and wastes, sewage, solid wastes (plastics, wood, metal, papers, etc) at the workshop, site office etc to authorized dumpsite Disassembling and transport of construction machines, machinery and equipment Removal of temporary infrastructure, installations and equipments from the campsite Rehabilitation/landscaping of the campsite to the original condition by shaping and grading d) Defects Liability phase The main activities during maintenance phase will entail the following: Cleaning, Repairs 2.1.3 Installations and equipments description  Offices  Laboratory 2.1.4 Manpower and employment description According to the requirements of manpower needed to fulfill the positions involved in construction, two main categories of workforce have to be considered: a) Skilled and Semi-Skilled positions; b) Unskilled positions. The numbers of personnel required to perform specific tasks on site will vary since specific requirements will differ based upon the work to be completed. DDBL will comply with the current National Labour Laws and Regulations and will apply for the current collective bargain agreement in force in the building, public works and civil engineering industry in Kenya. Workers are allowed to be members of labour organizations as far as it complies with Occupational Health and Safety Act 3.0 Environment and social objectives The objectives of this plan are: a) To comply fully with all resource consent conditions b) To minimize the effects of construction on the environment c) To integrate environmental and social management into all aspects of the construction works d) To promote a high level of environmental and social awareness in all the contractors and subcontractors project staff e) To comply with the DDBL environmental and social policy Principle 9: DDBL Environment and Social Management Plan describes plans/procedures and provides guidance to DDBL personnel regarding environmental and social matters. DDBL will maintain all of its sites and carry out all work in compliance with Government Laws and administrative procedures. 4.0 Legal References This Environment and Social National Gender Policy Management Plan is based on the Construction Industry Policy Kenyan laws and regulations concerning environment issues and Energy Policy the tender document as environment assessment impact: Land Act, UNGC Land Use Planning Act National Environment Policy, National Water Policy World Bank Operational Policy on Water Utilization and Control Act, Involuntary Resettlement National Mineral Policy Environmental Management Act, Mining Act Environmental Impact Assessment National Forest Policy, and Audit Regulations, Forest Act National Land Policy, Road Act, National Transport Policy, Road Traffic Act National Land Policy, Highway Ordinance Act National Policy on HIV/AIDS Explosives Act National Human Settlements Development Policy and Explosives Regulation Organization for environmental and social protection Within the DDBL organization full authority and responsibility are given to the Project Manager to prepare, implement and maintain the Environmental and Social System, complying with the contract requirements, and to verify its application and its efficiency. This part of the document is used to describe DDBL organizational structure for Environment and outlines the responsibilities of a number of key personnel who have significant contributions to make it possible, to have this environment and social management plan successfully implemented Implementation ; As part of our conservation practice, DDBL has initiated the process of a paperless environment by working with an IT consulting Company that will develop for us a Business Automation System that will address the work flow processes in a paperless environment. In so doing, we will reduce the use of paper in our task orders and activities and reduce paper consumption by more than 50 % . The system will be rolled out by the first quarter of year 2014. 4. ANTICORRUPTION PRINCIPLES Principle 10: Statement of Policy Principles DDBL is committed to protecting its revenue, property, information and other assets from any attempt, either by members of the public, contractors, sub-contractors, agents, intermediaries or its own employees, to gain financial or other benefits by deceit. This policy sets out specific guidelines and responsibilities regarding appropriate actions that must be followed for investigation of corruption, fraud and other similar irregularities. Definitions Fraud and other similar irregularities include, but are not limited to: 1. Forgery or alteration of cheques, drafts, promissory notes and securities. 2. Misappropriation of funds, securities, supplies or any other asset. 3. Irregularity in the handling or reporting of money transactions. 4. Misappropriation of furniture, fixtures and equipment. 5. Seeking or accepting anything of material value from vendors, consultants or contractors doing business with the DDBL in violation of the conflict-of-interest rules established by the Managing Director (MD). 6. Unauthorized use or misuse of DDBL property, equipment, materials or records. 7. Any computer-related activity involving the alteration, destruction, forgery, or manipulation of data for fraudulent purposes or misappropriation of DDBL owned software. 8. Any claim for reimbursement of expenses that have been incurred for the exclusive benefit of DDBL 9. Provision of an unauthorized benefit to a client including, but not limited to, an unauthorized reduction of the invoice payable by a client, unauthorized internal transfers to another. Applicability This policy applies to members of the Board of Directors and all employees of the DDBL. General Policy and Responsibilities 1. It is the Board of Directors’ intent to fully investigate any suspected acts of fraud, misappropriation or other similar irregularity. An objective and impartial investigation will be conducted regardless of the position, title, length of service or relationship with the DDBL) of any party who might be or becomes involved in or becomes/is the subject of such investigation. All directors, officers and employees of DDBL will co-operate fully with the Board of Directors to ensure that any suspected acts of fraud, or other similar irregularity, are investigated to the satisfaction of the Board of Directors and either the MD or government anti corruption agency. 2. In all circumstances, where there are reasonable grounds to indicate that a fraud may have occurred, the Board of Directors, subject to the advice of its legal counsel, will contact its insurance company and the local Police. 3. Upon conclusion of the investigation, the results will be reported to the Chairman of the Board of Directors. The Chairman will provide a copy of the results to the police where necessary. 4. The Board of Directors will pursue every reasonable effort, including court-ordered restitution, to recover the corporation’s losses from the offender, or other appropriate sources. Prevention The Board of Directors and staff shall practice internal control measures designed to limit the risk of fraud or other similar irregularities, paying particular attention to the controls for handling cash and corporate credit cards. Procedures to be followed when fraud is suspected 1) Reporting a) All Employees Any employee who has knowledge of an occurrence of irregular conduct, or has reason to suspect that a fraud has occurred, shall immediately notify his/her supervisor. If the employee has reason to believe that the employee’s supervisor may be involved, the employee shall immediately notify the MD. Employees shall not attempt to investigate a suspected fraud or discuss the matter with anyone other than a person to whom the fraud was reported. An allegation of fraud is a serious matter. Employees who knowingly make false allegations will be subject to discipline up to and including dismissal. b) Supervisors Upon notification from an employee of suspected fraud, or if the supervisor has reason to suspect that a fraud has occurred, the supervisor shall immediately notify the MD. The supervisor shall not attempt to investigate the suspected fraud or to discuss the matter with anyone other than the MD and the police. c) MD Upon notification from an employee of a suspected fraud, or if the MD has reason to suspect that a fraud has occurred, the MD shall immediately advise the Board of Directors. The MD shall not attempt to investigate the suspected fraud or to discuss the matter with anyone other than the Board of Directors and the police. The MD shall coordinate the investigation with the police on behalf of the Board. The MD will ensure that those representing the police who are conducting the investigation keep a detailed log of any relevant records including documents, conversations and formal interviews. d) Board of Directors Upon notification or discovery of a suspected fraud, the Board of Directors will, in consultation with the police and legal counsel, promptly conduct an initial review and make a determination whether or not the suspected fraud warrants additional investigation. In all circumstances where there appears to be reasonable grounds for suspecting that a fraud has taken place, the Board of Directors, in consultation the police, will contact the local Anti corruption agency. The Board of Directors shall investigate any suspected fraud to the satisfaction of the client. In doing so, the Board must ensure that the investigation is carried out actively and in good faith. Any witnesses will be interviewed as part of the investigation. In the event that the MD is suspected of fraud or other similar irregularities, the Board shall appoint other board member to fulfill these responsibilities on its behalf. 2) Security of Evidence a) Once a suspected fraud is reported, the Board of Directors, in consultation with the corporation’s legal counsel and the client, shall take immediate action to prevent the theft, alteration, or destruction of relevant records. b) Such actions may include, but are not limited to, removing the records and placing them in a secure location, limiting access to the location where the records currently exist, and preventing any individual(s) suspected of committing the fraud from having access to the records. The records must be adequately secured until the investigator engaged to conduct the investigation or the police take control of the records to begin the audit investigation. 3) Confidentiality All participants in a fraud investigation shall keep the details and results of the investigation confidential. 4) Personnel Action a) If a suspicion of fraud is substantiated by the investigation, disciplinary action, up to and including dismissal, shall be taken by the Board of Directors in consultation with the corporation’s legal counsel. b) Unless exceptional circumstances exist, a person under investigation for fraud shall be given notice in writing of the essential particulars of the allegations following the conclusion of the audit investigation and prior to final disciplinary action being taken. Where notice is given, the person against whom allegations are being made may submit a written explanation to the MD (or other appointee) of the Board of Directors no later than seven calendar days after the notice is received. This requirement is subject to any collective agreement provisions respecting the rights of employees during disciplinary proceedings. 5) Whistle-Blower Protection No person acting on behalf of DDBL including the Board of Directors shall: a) Dismiss or threaten to dismiss an employee; b) Discipline or suspend or threaten to discipline or suspend an employee; c) Impose any penalty upon an employee; or d) Intimidate or coerce an employee because the employee has acted in accordance with the requirements of the policy. Violation of this section will result in discipline up to and including dismissal.
