2012 Corporate responsibility REPORT “We are committed to conducting all aspects of our business in a responsible way, and have implemented a series of changes that will help strengthen our focus. In doing so, we are taking steps to make Talisman a stronger company.” Hal Kvisle, President and CEO Chauvin, Alberta Corporate Responsibility – how we do business Talisman Energy Inc. is an independent, upstreamfocused, Canadian-based, international oil and gas company. Our success depends on not only our ability to satisfy a small part of the world’s need for energy but, equally important, on the way we run our business. Running our business means operating diligence of our people that shape our examples of how we run our business, safely and responsibly, being transparent day-to-day business. in this report. and collaborative, and ensuring the communities where we operate benefit It is our people who ensure our operations You will also read that 2012 represented a from our presence. are safe, minimize the impact of our period of strategic transition for Talisman. activities on the environment, share In September, our Board of Directors Each year, we set targets, work to meet information with and listen to the needs appointed Hal Kvisle as our new President or exceed them, and track our and concerns of local communities, and and Chief Executive Officer, and, shortly performance. Sometimes our success deliver the economic benefits that can be thereafter, Hal made some significant varies from year to year, reflecting the shared with our stakeholders. adjustments to our strategic priorities. nature of our journey; however, we continue to focus on maintaining a trend Our people are fundamental to our Such change creates tremendous of continuous improvement. success and we are fortunate to have opportunity, not just for our company and some of the brightest minds in the industry. shareholders, but for our current and We work hard to earn and maintain We continuously invest in their future employees – each of whom has a “partner of choice” status, so that we are development, not only through diverse new stage upon which to make their mark. welcomed by governments, communities, work in an international environment, but But one thing will remain a constant – our and peers around the world. Like any good also through training and exposure to a commitment to run all aspects of our company, we want our employees to be wide range of projects, teams, and leaders. business in a highly responsible, ethical, engaged in their work, to feel proud of their and transparent way. company, and of their contribution to it. Some of our training is technically focused; however, in order to ensure each of our We hope you enjoy this year’s Corporate We strive to make this happen in many employees run their part of our business Responsibility Report, and invite your ways, and while standards, policies, and responsibly, every year they participate comments to CR@talisman-energy.com. procedures play a foundational role, it is in a formal program on business and ultimately the behaviours, values, and ethics. You can read about this, and other This report, produced annually, provides performance data on all aspects of our company on a consolidated basis, for the year ending December 31, 2012. Unless otherwise indicated, figures are reported in metric units, and all financial information is reported in US dollars. Unless the context indicates otherwise, reference in this report to “Talisman” or the “company” is intended to include, for reporting purposes only, the direct or indirect subsidiaries of Talisman Energy Inc. and, in certain circumstances, partnership interests held by Talisman Energy Inc. and its subsidiaries. Such use of “Talisman” or the “company” to refer to these other legal entities and partnership interests does not constitute a waiver by Talisman Energy Inc. or such entities or partnership interests of their separate legal status, for any purpose. Performance information relating to joint ventures, where Talisman is not the operator, is excluded except where otherwise noted. Talisman defines its stakeholders as its employees, shareholders, suppliers, service providers, communities, indigenous groups, investors, debt holders, governments, regulators and nongovernmental organizations (NGOs) affected by, or that can affect, the company’s operations. Talisman has numerous processes and programs for engaging with its stakeholders, including investor open houses, community consultation meetings, and employee surveys. In addition, Talisman collaborates with many stakeholders through community programs and industry initiatives with the goal of addressing key social and environmental issues. Many of these initiatives are described in this report and additional information is available on our website. In 2012, Talisman completed a cross-departmental assessment to identify, assess, and prioritize the corporate responsibility issues relevant to the company. The results of this assessment were used to inform our performance goals as well as to identify the key performance indicators for our corporate responsibility reports. Talisman is listed on the Toronto and New York stock exchanges under the symbol TLM. For more information, visit talisman-energy.com CONTENTS ABOUT TALISMAN 02 OUR APPROACH 04 PRESIDENT’S MESSAGE 06 SAFETY 08 ENVIRONMENT 14 PEOPLE 18 COMMUNITIES AND STAKEHOLDERS 24 GOVERNANCE 28 KEY NUMBERS 33 INDEPENDENT ASSURANCE 34 FORWARD-LOOKING INFORMATION 35 GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE 36 CORPORATE INFORMATION IBC Chauvin, Alberta Talisman Energy Corporate REsponsibility Report 2012 1 ABOUT TALISMAN We are a global upstream oil and gas asset hasn’t reverted to the national oil prices in our Asia-Pacific business, the company, and, in 2012, we produced company. opposite was true in North America, 426,000 boe/d. While our headquarters where an oversupply of natural gas are in Calgary, Canada, we have During the year, we divested 49 per cent depressed prices. operations throughout two core operating of our UK North Sea business to Sinopec, areas: the Americas (North America and creating a joint venture company called We are fortunate that our portfolio gives Colombia) and Asia-Pacific. Last year, Talisman Sinopec Energy UK Limited. us the flexibility to shift our focus to more over 90 per cent of our 3,087 employees Going forward, the activity from this profitable assets, and, as we move into worked in these regions, which collectively company will not form part of our 2013, 90 per cent of our capital budget account for around 90 per cent of our corporate responsibility reporting. is directed toward liquids opportunities production and 85 per cent of our proven and international gas. In addition to our core operating areas, and probable reserves. we have a number of other high-value As you’d expect, such economic In North America, we hold positions in assets and near-term exploration activities. conditions create challenges, but, as our five of the continent’s leading plays – For example, in the Kurdistan region of employees told us when we asked them to representing a blend of natural gas and Northern Iraq, we have already proven reflect on our 20-year history as Talisman, liquids. In Colombia, we are growing our oil the presence of significant hydrocarbons, overcoming challenges and creating value production and own a share of a pipeline, and our current drilling program will help is what we do – it lies at the very heart of providing us with access to key markets. identify the full potential of this area. We our corporate character and our brand. are focused on unlocking the value in all In Asia-Pacific, we have built a reputation our non-core opportunities and delivering In September, Hal Kvisle was appointed of efficient operations and consistent it back to shareholders. President and CEO. He was already a safe delivery. This creates opportunities, member of the Board, and brings 35 years the most recent was our being awarded The upstream oil and gas industry of industry experience and a track record operatorship of the Kinabalu platform in is highly competitive and dynamic, in running highly disciplined companies. Malaysia, marking the first time such an and 2012 was no exception. While we Shortly after his arrival, he made some enjoyed strong energy demand and high significant adjustments to our strategic Focus Areas 2 Talisman Energy Corporate REsponsibility Report 2012 2012 FACTS AND FIGURES $3B cash flow1 3,087 employees 426,000 boe/d priorities – shifting our focus, bringing one of our employees – we have a long • In Colombia, we have near-term capital spending closer to projected cash track record of doing. This requires smart, oil growth through our Equion joint flow, and investing in high-margin liquids motivated, and adaptable people who can venture and heavy oil blocks, and our and international gas opportunities. flourish in challenging environments, which part ownership of the Ocensa pipeline has never been more pertinent than now. provides access to key markets At a high level, we are focused on We have talented, dedicated people who improving performance, unlocking value are making a difference and building a truly ASIA-PACIFIC (Indonesia, Malaysia, from undeveloped assets, and improving successful company. Vietnam, Australia and Papua shareholder returns. Integral to this are New Guinea) four key priorities: For more information on our strategy • Asia-Pacific is characterized by rapid and 2013 capital plan, see our 2012 1. Live within our means economic growth, strong energy demand, Annual Report on our website, and high natural gas prices talisman-energy.com. 2. Focus our capital program • We have long-life assets, with high 3. Improve operational performance and OUR PORTFOLIO netbacks, and a low cost structure reduce our cost structure AMERICAS (North America and Colombia) • We anticipate 8 per cent per annum 4. Unlock net asset value in the portfolio production growth over the medium term • Five leading North American plays with and have near-term exploration potential Each of our employees carries responsibility over 35 tcfe of contingent resources and for delivering our strategy in a highly significant opportunity to unlock value responsible, safe, ethical, and transparent • 80 per cent of North American capital way, which – thanks to the commitment spend directed toward liquids-rich plays of our Board, executive team, and every TWO CORE REGIONS: AMERICAS AND ASIA-PACIFIC2 ~90% ~85% ~90% ~95% ~85% of production of 2P reserves of COGEH of contingent of unrisked 2P value resource prospective resource 2013 production 2012 2P reserves 2012 COGEH 2P value 2012 contingent 2012 unrisked 375-395 mboe/d 1.7 billion boe ~ $14 billion resource prospective RLI ~ 12 years 6.7 billion boe resource 3.1 billion boe 1. Cash flow is a non-GAAP measure. See advisories in Talisman’s 2012 Annual Report. 2. Includes Algeria Talisman Energy Corporate REsponsibility Report 2012 3 Corporate Responsibility AT TALISMAN OUR APPROACH The hallmark of well-run companies is These principles lie at the heart of how We are proud of our track record, that they deliver returns to shareholders, we run our business and guide the five and of our inclusion in the Dow Jones operate safely and responsibly, and priority areas you can read about in Sustainability Index and the Jantzi engage employees. These objectives are this report: safety, environment, Social Index. linked: well-run and efficient operations people, communities and stakeholders, tend to be safe operations; engaged and governance. As we write this report, we have employees tend to be proud of their learned that we will be included in the employer and care about their reputation Striving to meet the targets we set against 2013 Maclean’s / Sustainalytics list of in the community; and effective plans each area helps us be safe, ethical, the 50 Most Socially Responsible and processes require cooperation, transparent, and responsible – wherever Corporations in Canada, which transparency, and collaboration with we operate. Ultimately, it supports the recognizes Canadian businesses for key stakeholders. success of our company by enabling us their sustainability efforts and to be a trusted partner of choice among commitment to corporate responsibility. We understand these links. Our success is governments, peers, and communities, intrinsically connected to the way in which attract talented people, create business This is our 13th Corporate Responsibility we run our business. Our approach to opportunities, and mitigate risk. Report. In order to keep the report corporate responsibility is built upon three readable and relevant, we discuss strategic principles: Our commitment to corporate issues we believe are important to you; responsibility – and the framework we however, we welcome your questions • Responsible Operations use to implement and measure our and feedback, which you can email to results – starts with our Board of Directors, CR@talisman-energy.com. • Mutual Benefit is directed by management, and is supported by our employees. • Transparency and Collaboration OUR CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY FRAMEWORK: DEFINING HOW WE DO BUSINESS GOVERNANCE SAFETY highly ethical practices and it is paramount we protect oversight of our business conduct the health and well-being and processes help us deliver our of our workers and communities commitments and manage risks RESPONSIBLE OPERATIONS MUTUAL BENEFIT TRANSPARENCY AND COLLABORATION COMMUNITIES ENVIRONMENT AND STAKEHOLDERS minimizing the environmental impacts engaging and sharing benefits with of energy exploration and production is one stakeholders builds public support for of industry’s key challenges our business PEOPLE attracting the best people and developing their full capabilities makes us a stronger organization 4 Talisman Energy Corporate REsponsibility Report 2012 Marcellus, Pennsylvania Talisman Energy Corporate REsponsibility Report 2012 5 President’S MESSAGE Hello. I’m Hal Kvisle, President and Chief Executive spill frequency by 21 per cent and spill volume by almost half. We made progress Officer of Talisman Energy. I am pleased to welcome collecting baseline data on both green you to our 13th Corporate Responsibility Report, to completions and freshwater use intensity in our shale operations, and, working in share a brief summary of our year and to provide an partnership with the University of Texas, overview on how we approach corporate responsibility. the Environmental Defense Fund, and eight industry peers, we continued a study To me, this is all about how we run our business. that will improve the accuracy of methane emission measurements and estimates associated with shale development. 2012 was marked by strategic change you will read about in this report: safety, and transition for Talisman. Early in the environment, people, communities and People are the engine that drives our year, the Board determined large-scale stakeholders, and governance. business. And, while the energy industry change was needed, both in terms of our attracts some criticism, in my experience direction and how we run the company. Safety remains a top priority, and we have it is full of highly talented people who are They acted quickly and decisively, and delivered continuous improvement in committed to continuous improvement and I was appointed President and CEO this area over the past few years. Most who care about our planet. This is certainly in September. important in 2012, we had no fatalities. true within Talisman, where the continued As we move forward, our increased focus dedication, resilience, and expertise of our I sought to understand all aspects of the and discipline should enable us to improve employees are fundamental to our ongoing company from the inside rather than from our execution on many dimensions, not transition and success. a director’s perspective, and then quickly least in lost-time injury frequency and made some significant adjustments to our flammable unintentional hydrocarbon As the company passed its 20th strategy. My overarching objective is to release frequency, both of which fell short anniversary in 2012, we took the create value for shareholders, but with less of our targets and expectations. We aim to opportunity to ask employees about the risk, lower spending and more focus. It is improve this in 2013. characteristics that have made us who we about doing things better, faster, safer and are. Their passion and commitment was at lower cost. We are acutely aware that all large-scale, evident when they said their company and industrial activities have an impact on the co-workers are defined by their ability to Against the current backdrop of change, environment. The oil and gas industry is overcome challenge and create value. there are many things that will remain no different, and we work hard to minimize As we continue our journey, I believe constant at Talisman, particularly our our impact by embedding environmental these brand and cultural attributes will commitment to corporate responsibility planning, monitoring, remediation work, serve us well. and to running our business in line and continuous improvement into all with our three strategic principles: aspects of our operations. We place great emphasis on how responsible operations, mutual benefit, we interact with communities and and transparency and collaboration. These In 2012, we met or exceeded all our stakeholders connected to our operations. principles underpin the five focus areas environmental targets, including reducing This is critical to our business, not only 6 Talisman Energy Corporate REsponsibility Report 2012 Hal Kvisle, President and Chief Executive Officer because it’s central to our license to management is taking to mitigate those impact, support our employees, and operate, but because it’s fundamentally risks, and when necessary, provides ensure communities and stakeholders important to our employees – each recommendations for further benefit from our activities. of whom takes their responsibility of management action. working in the energy industry seriously. As we move into 2013, we remain Throughout the year, our engagement The Board oversees the conduct of the committed to conducting all aspects of our with indigenous communities in Colombia business and management, including business in a responsible way and have was recognized as meeting international oversight of governance structures, implemented a series of changes that will best practices, while, in the Kurdistan processes, transparency, business ethics, improve our performance in all respects. region of Northern Iraq, our contribution and compliance with US and Canadian In doing so, we are taking steps to make to building roads, drinking-water wells, anti-corruption and bribery laws. Our Talisman a stronger company. and conducting school repairs received participation in the Voluntary Principles on a special award by the Prime Minister Security and Human Rights plenary group, of Kurdistan. This was the first time a coupled with the United Nations Global company has been singled out for Compact, helps keep our policies and such an award. activities in line with international best practices. Strong governance practices and ethical business conduct lie at the heart of In reading this report, I hope you gain a all we do. Each year, every employee better understanding of our commitment Hal Kvisle is required to participate in an annual to continuous improvement, and the solid President and Chief Executive Officer training program and certify compliance strategic framework within which we set Talisman Energy Inc. with our Policy on Business Conduct and targets and share our performance in May 1, 2013 Ethics. They are encouraged to report a transparent way. There is little doubt any breaches via our confidential Integrity 2012 was a challenging year, and I expect Matters hotline. 2013 will also bring change and transition; however, the changes we have made Talisman has processes, procedures and to our strategic priorities are intrinsic to policies in place to ensure the company helping us continue to improve the way complies with laws and regulations in we run our business. every jurisdiction where it operates. The company also takes steps to identify and Our reduced capital plan is highly mitigate business risks. As an example, focused on two core regions, operational leaders throughout the company are excellence, cost control, and value required to provide regular input to an creation. This focus will help us organization-wide Enterprise Risk concentrate on our corporate responsibility Management system. Talisman’s priorities. Within our disciplined independent internal audit group governance structures, we will continue to measures and assesses the steps operate safely, minimize our environmental Talisman Energy Corporate REsponsibility Report 2012 7 SAFETY 8 Talisman Energy Corporate REsponsibility Report 2012 Bunga Orkid, Malaysia SAFETY SCORECARD: 2012 PERFORMANCE 15% increase in lost-time injury 16% decrease in total recordable 8% increase in flammable unintentional frequency (per million injury frequency (per million hydrocarbon release frequency exposure hours) exposure hours) (per million exposure hours) 2012 Performance and 2013 Plans What we said we’d do in 2012 What took place in 2012 What we plan for 2013 • Reduce lost-time injury frequency • 15% increase in lost-time • Reduce lost-time injury frequency by an additional 15% injury frequency by 20% • Reduce total recordable injury • 16% decrease in total recordable • Reduce total recordable injury frequency by an additional 20% injury frequency frequency by 15% • Reduce flammable unintentional • 8% increase in flammable unintentional • Reduce flammable unintentional hydrocarbon release frequency hydrocarbon release frequency hydrocarbon release frequency by 20% by 15% • Achieve zero backlog of overdue • All regions except the UK achieved zero safety critical repairs backlog of overdue safety critical repairs • Achieve zero overdue critical • All regions except the UK achieved zero preventative maintenance overdue critical preventative maintenance man-hours man-hours • Pilot PREVENT, a process safety • Piloted PREVENT in the UK barrier management tool, in the UK Talisman Energy Corporate REsponsibility Report 2012 9 SAFETY OUR APPROACH Safety is a significant part of our corporate important part of our overall commitment to safety, and we have set a 20 per cent responsibility. While the nature of our operations can reduction target for 2013. cause annual variations in performance, we have TRIF is also measured per million exposure delivered marked improvement over recent years hours and includes fatalities and cases of lost workdays, restricted work, and through better systems, processes, and measurement, medical treatment. In 2012, we reduced and we continue to ensure safety is a top priority and a TRIF by 16 per cent (our frequency rate was 3.62 in 2011 and 3.02 in 2012). core value in our activities. This commitment starts This was short of our target of 20 per with our executive and operational leadership, who aim cent; however, still reflects a significant improvement. In part, this improvement to ensure we create working conditions where we cause is due to behavioural-based safety no harm to people, and that safe operations supersede initiatives, structured safety audits and site inspections, and our Target Zero safety operational results. Year-over-year, we set targets in culture program in Asia-Pacific. In 2013, order to measure and report on our performance, we we are working to build on our progress and decrease TRIF by 15 per cent. celebrate our successes, and take appropriate steps when we need to improve. This is how we do business. In addition to our full-time employees, our business relies on thousands of contractors to provide diverse services to our operations, and we expect each to follow the same safety standards. To ensure greater consistency, we began PERSONAL SAFETY frequency (LTIF) and total recordable injury frequency (TRIF). LTIF is the rate implementing our Global Contractor Keeping people safe means continuously Health, Safety, Security and Environment of lost time due to workplace injuries, adjusting management system controls, (HSSE) Management Standard in 2009, and is measured per million exposure practising proactive risk management, and which has been effective in decreasing the hours. In 2011, we reported a significant ensuring we have safe systems of work, frequency of incidents and injuries among improvement in LTIF of 45 per cent; effective supervision, and available training. our contractors. This was demonstrated in however, we were unable to sustain this trend in 2012 and experienced a 2012 through a 14 per cent improvement In 2012 – and most important in 15 per cent increase in frequency from in contractor TRIF performance compared terms of personal safety – there were 0.54 in 2011 to 0.62 in 2012. A number to the previous year. zero fatalities. of slip, trip and fall injuries in some of our As a precautionary measure, in July, Other important indicators of personal operations contributed to the increase. we removed all 140 people from our safety performance are lost-time injury Measuring LTIF continues to be an 10 Talisman Energy Corporate REsponsibility Report 2012 Yme Mobile Offshore Production Unit (MOPU), which was being installed in the Norwegian North Sea. This step was taken based on results of engineering studies Chauvin, Alberta and inspections. The safety of people was our top priority, and we stopped all work to enable the Yme MOPU contractor and owner, SBM Offshore, to provide written documentation attesting PROCESS SAFETY – health of employees and the environment. to the safety of the platform. In March PREVENTING MAJOR In an effort to prevent major incidents 2013, following an extended period of ACCIDENTS and injuries, we have specific processes in place and continuously strive for operational and execution delays, Process safety is about taking preventative improvement. We work to ensure that we terminated the project. measures to ensure hydrocarbons and any incidents are investigated, with other dangerous substances are contained A mode of transportation that represents findings shared globally to help us make where they belong. Effective process a risk to personal safety within our process improvements where necessary. safety and operational integrity can be the industry is helicopters. Like many of our difference between a safe workplace and One of the ways we work to reduce the peers, some of our operations rely upon a major incident that impacts both the risk of incidents and injuries is by helicopters for the transport of personnel, equipment, and supplies. We are working to ensure we are proactive and that we are providing appropriate oversight of aviation operations, including continuous GLOBAL TOTAL RECORDABLE GLOBAL LOST-TIME improvement of our processes to audit INJURY FREQUENCY INJURY FREQUENCY and coach our aviation providers. (per million exposure hours) (per million exposure hours) We began implementing our 10 Golden 5.0 4.68 2.0 Rules for Safe Operations in 2010. These include preventing oil, gas, and chemical 4.0 1.5 leaks, and operating vehicles safely. 3.0 3.62 Our Golden Rules remain an integral 0.98 3.02 1.0 part of our safety strategy and culture. 2.0 0.62 Clear rules and procedures at all our 0.5 work sites around the world help prevent 1.0 0.54 personal injuries, and we continued to communicate the rules to employees 0.0 0.0 and contractors as part of our ongoing 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 operations in 2012. Talisman Energy Corporate REsponsibility Report 2012 11 Fulmar, UK North Sea conducting operational readiness reviews mechanical isolation program and recordable incidents – as well as incidents at the onset of major projects. These hydrocarbon release guidance. We are that have high potential for consequences – ensure we have the right safety processes, working to improve our performance in both within our company and from other people, and equipment in place. In 2012, this area and have targeted a 15 per cent companies within our industry. We seek we completed five readiness reviews in reduction in 2013. to understand root causes and share our operated areas (Canada, the US, Sierra learnings across the organization to prevent Leone, Vietnam, and Colombia Block For other key performance indicators future reoccurrence. CPE-8) and one in a joint venture area for process safety, we achieved a offshore Colombia. We also conducted zero backlog of overdue safety critical An important part of our safety culture for a readiness review to ensure the safe repairs and zero overdue critical the last four years is our annual CEO Safety and successful transition of the Kinabalu preventative maintenance man-hours in Awards, which celebrate significant health, platform in Malaysia from Shell. all regions except the UK. As planned, safety, and environmental achievements we successfully piloted the PREVENT in our operations. The awards recognize A key performance indicator that barrier management system in the UK. employees who have introduced further measures process safety is the frequency This system monitors the health of the improvements to our culture, leadership, of flammable unintentional hydrocarbon layers of protection we have in place to and contractor practices. releases (FUHRs). In 2012, the rate of safeguard our operations against major FUHR frequency per million exposure accident hazards, and provides a quick The 2012 CEO Safety Award for Improved hours grew from 0.98 in 2011 to 1.06 diagnostic of possible issues that require Contractor Management was awarded in 2012 – an increase of 8 per cent. immediate attention. to our well servicing and rig coordinator This increase was primarily caused by a team in Chauvin, Alberta. This team number of incidents that occurred during BUILDING A worked with an environmental and energy the rampup of one of our operations, as SAFETY CULTURE services company to develop an innovative well as some legacy equipment failures. custom-designed mobile tubing rack, Collectively, our safety policy, standards, In other areas, however, performance significantly reducing the risk of procedures, and the commitment of improved due to additional monitoring, personal injury from working manually leadership help to embed a safety better planning of turnarounds and with tubing on wellsites. The award culture at all levels within our organization. maintenance, and implementing a recognized the initiative of our employees We investigate, report, and learn from 12 Talisman Energy Corporate REsponsibility Report 2012 Chauvin, Alberta to work collaboratively with their contractor levels of our Emergency Management with the common goal of getting people System. The first was a country evacuation home safely at the end of each day. scenario in our operations in the Kurdistan region of Northern Iraq and the second FLAMMABLE ANTICIPATING AND was a well problem and spill scenario MANAGING RISK in our offshore drilling program in UNINTENTIONAL Risk is part of any business, and, as a Sierra Leone. The exercises centred on HYDROCARBON responsible company, we work to identify, identified risks and provided response RELEASES (FUHRs) assess, and mitigate risk by incorporating teams with practice in coordination and frequency (number of FUHRs risk assessments and mitigation plans into communication and helped identify per million exposure hours) our business planning processes. This opportunities for improvement. includes conducting operational readiness A variety of further exercises were reviews as well as regular assessments conducted with our Country Emergency 1.5 for our ongoing operations, projects, and Business Support teams in regions other activities. 1.06 including Colombia, Canada, the 0.98 Kurdistan region of Northern Iraq, the 1.0 Our Global Integrated Emergency and Crisis Management Standard establishes US, and the UK. We also conducted the the minimum expectations for responding first audit of our Emergency Response 0.5 to and managing emergencies and crises, and Crisis Management Standard for our as well as business continuity planning – Norway operations, which resulted in an two interrelated activities that contribute action plan for continuous improvement. 0.0 to the overall resilience and readiness of We will continue to identify, understand, 2011 2012 the business. and reduce risks in 2013 through work In 2012, we conducted two major that includes cross-functional and emergency response and crisis multidisciplinary input from across management exercises involving all the business. Talisman Energy Corporate REsponsibility Report 2012 13 ENVIRONMENT 14 Talisman Energy Corporate REsponsibility Report 2012 Marcellus, Pennsylvania ENVIRONMENT SCORECARD: 2012 PERFORMANCE ✔ collected baseline data on 21% decrease in spill frequency 48% decrease in volume of spills freshwater use intensity (per million man-hours worked) (in cubic metres) and green completions in our shale operations 2012 Performance and 2013 Plans What we said we’d do in 2012 What took place in 2012 What we plan for 2013 • Achieve a 10% reduction in our • 21% decrease in spill frequency • Reduce spill frequency by 10% spill frequency • Collect baseline data on • Collected baseline data on freshwater • Continue our multi-year freshwater use intensity in our use intensity in our shale operations journey to implement our shale operations Shale Operating Principles • Collect baseline data on • Collected baseline data on green green completions in our completions in our shale operations shale operations Talisman Energy Corporate REsponsibility Report 2012 15 ENVIRONMENT OUR APPROACH Minimizing our impact on the environment is life. The estimated maximum total release from the pipeline was approximately an important consideration in being a responsible 75 barrels of water and 13 barrels of operator. This means looking at and reducing the oil. While any spill is regrettable, our response helped minimize the release effects of our operations on air, land, water, and and the environmental impact, and the waste generation, and finding ways to make lessons learned will help prevent similar occurrences in the future. efficient use of resources. We integrate these MANAGING EMISSIONS environmental considerations into our community In order to continuously improve the consultations, decision-making, and project energy efficiency of our operations, planning – in all areas where we operate. we integrate economic energy measures into our business, and we made progress in this area in 2012. In our shale operations, we collected baseline PREVENTING SPILLS performance in the context of our activity data on green completions after levels. In 2012, we reduced this by developing it as an indicator in 2011. We take spills seriously by tracking and 21 per cent – significantly better than our Green completions is a process that recording them as a key indicator of our target of 10 per cent. In 2013, we will captures methane during well environmental performance. A significant continue to build on our progress and completions, and, rather than it being spill is defined as greater than half a barrel aim to reduce our spill frequency by released into the atmosphere, it is sent in volume. By investigating significant spills 10 per cent. to a processing plant. Green completions for causes, developing corrective actions, ensures we are reducing greenhouse and sharing what we learn, we help During the year, a routine inspection of gas emissions and not wasting a valuable prevent similar incidents from occurring the Galley Pipeline in the UK North Sea resource. We will continue to look for in the future. identified an upheaval buckling of the opportunities to improve trends in line. Our response was immediate, and green completions through our multi-year In 2012, our number of recordable we quickly shut in and depressurized the journey to implement our Shale spills greater than half a barrel fell from line. Further investigation revealed a small Operating Principles. 134 in 2011 to 96 – a decrease of leak. We took a number of precautionary 28 per cent. Volume of spills greater than actions, including deploying a spill In addition to taking action around our half a barrel decreased by 48 per cent, recovery and containment vessel, and own operations, we partnered with the from 707 m3 in 2011 to 368 m3 in 2012. monitoring the leak area via a remotely University of Texas, the Environmental In last year’s report, we said we would operated vehicle. In addition, we used Defense Fund, and eight industry peers start reporting and setting targets on spotter planes to monitor the sea surface in a multilateral methane emissions spill frequency per million man-hours in twice per day, and tasked a trained wildlife study. This study focused on improving order to more clearly understand our spill observer to monitor seabirds and marine the accuracy of methane emissions 16 Talisman Energy Corporate REsponsibility Report 2012 Marañon Basin, Peru measurements and estimates associated challenge to reuse all flowback water; with shale gas production, and is a good however, we continue to look for ways to GLOBAL NUMBER example of successful collaboration improve our practices. between industry, academia, and a nonOF SPILLS We were proud to be recognized and (number of spills greater than 0.5 barrel) governmental organization. The results of the study will be shared in our 2013 included as an Energy Sector Case Study Corporate Responsibility Report. Through in the Carbon Disclosure Project’s (CDP) frequency number of spills scientific collaboration and collecting and 2012 Global Water Report. The CDP is an (number of spills per million sharing data, we will continue to look independent, not-for-profit organization exposure hours) for opportunities to increase the level of working to reduce greenhouse gas understanding of shale operations. emissions and promote sustainable water 3.0 200 use by businesses and cities. In its report, 2.34 2.25 CONSERVING AND we were acknowledged for our responsible 150 PROTECTING FRESH WATER water use, conservation practices, and 2.0 1.84 IN OUR SHALE OPERATIONS increased transparency as part of our 100 shale operations. Oil and gas operations – particularly shale 1.0 development – require water, and, through We work closely with our fluid suppliers 50 better understanding of our freshwater to publicly disclose the composition 108 134 96 use, we work hard to conserve and protect of hydraulic fracturing fluids on 0.0 0 it. We developed freshwater use intensity fracfocus.org for operations in the US 2010 2011 2012 in our shale operations as a new indicator and fracfocus.ca for Canada. Additional in 2011, and successfully collected information can be found on our websites, baseline data in 2012. talisman-energy.com and talismanusa.com. Providing this information is part of our Specific to freshwater conservation, operate benefit from our presence, and commitment to maintaining open and we continue to look for opportunities provide transparency into our operations. transparent communications with our to maximize the reuse of flowback These serve as a guide for our employees stakeholders and the communities where water and produced water (fluid that and contractors, as we strive to we operate. We continue to work to flows back through the wellbore to the continuously improve our responsible improve the hydraulic fracturing process, surface), and reuse it for fracturing in shale operations. Being a responsible and engage regularly with stakeholders. future wells. This practice helps minimize operator remains a commitment for freshwater use and reduce off-site waste Talisman, and these principles continue to Shale Operating Principles disposal as water is returned to the provide multi-year aspirations for our shale formation after completion and during the In 2011, we shared our Shale Operating operations. To learn more, visit the HSSE life of the well. We store as much flowback Principles, which are built upon three section of talisman-energy.com. as possible at some of our facilities so main objectives: to minimize the impact that it is available for reuse. During times of our operations on the environment, of reduced drilling activity, it can be a ensure the communities in which we Talisman Energy Corporate REsponsibility Report 2012 17 PEOPLE 18 Talisman Energy Corporate REsponsibility Report 2012 Calgary, Alberta PEOPLE SCORECARD: 2012 PERFORMANCE 2nd conducted our second $13M invested $13 million in training 360º completed 360-degree global employee survey and career development for feedback programs for 50 leaders our employees in our organization 2012 Performance and 2013 Plans What we said we’d do in 2012 What took place in 2012 What we plan for 2013 • Require all permanent employees • 67% of permanent employees who • Redeploy people wherever possible, in to complete career development completed career development plans response to our new strategy priorities plans in 2011 refreshed their plans in 2012 • Continue 360-degree feedback • Completed 360-degree feedback • Communicate leadership model for leaders to support ongoing programs for 50 leaders in our and integrate with appropriate development organization people processes • Baseline and benchmark our • Invested $13 million in training • Leverage discipline networks to develop current learning and development and career development programs critical competencies investment of $10.9 million for our employees • Conduct a second global employee • Conducted our second global • Maintain ongoing communication survey and create a plan for employee survey and created a with employees and conduct a improvement based on the results, plan for improvement based on pulse-check survey to monitor building on the 2010 survey the results progress on 2012 employee survey improvement plan • Target 10% improvement in • Achieved a 2% improvement in employees’ satisfaction score on employees’ satisfaction score career development in the on career development in the employee survey employee survey • Hire approximately 50 new graduates • Hired 40 new graduates and pilot a targeted development program in North America Talisman Energy Corporate REsponsibility Report 2012 19 PEOPLE A YEAR OF TRANSITION 2012 was a challenging year for energy companies their career potential within Talisman. This global mobility applies equally to our and for Talisman – especially in North America. efforts to redeploy employees in line with It’s testimony to the strength in our portfolio, our adjustments to our strategic priorities. adaptability, and our employees that we were able Each year, beginning with our overall business strategy, employees set career to shift our focus from gas to liquids and set a new development plans and goals. This begins strategic course for our business. We have built our at the executive level and cascades throughout every layer of our business, company around successfully responding to such ensuring our employees are focused on challenges – this is just one reason why Talisman the right value-adding work. Progress is monitored throughout the year, as is an exciting and rewarding place to work. employees meet with their leader to discuss how they are developing through experience, exposure, and education. These conversations are followed by a For many employees, 2012 brought focused on challenging, meaningful, and formal year-end performance review. significant change, particularly as one of value-adding work. our strategic priorities is the review and Throughout 2012, and as planned, we reduction of our cost structure – including DEVELOPING PEOPLE continued our 360-degree leadership workforce reduction. As we write this The talent, commitment, and technical feedback program. Fifty leaders report, the process has already begun, and, expertise of our employees is integral to participated, which is key to both through a combination of natural attrition our success. We develop our people in their ongoing development and to our and layoffs, several hundred employees a challenging, fast-paced, and dynamic leadership succession plans. Following and contractors have left our company. environment, and provide opportunities for our second global employee survey, we personal and career development through began to evolve our leadership model, This is a difficult but necessary exercise a combination of structured technical and a framework through which we will that will continue in 2013 as we execute leadership development programs. build leadership capability and establish on our new strategy and work to create consistent behaviours. We will begin to a more fit-for-purpose and competitive Our leaders work hard to ensure the implement this in 2013. organization. Our commitment is to make right people are placed in the part of all adjustments to our workforce in a fair the business where they can add the We invested more than $13 million or and respectful way. most value. This can provide our approximately 3.4 per cent of total employees with an opportunity to salaries in learning and development As we focus on building a successful transition their skills into new roles and activity, which includes regulatory, company, we are working hard to create international locations – growing their HSSE, technical, soft skills, and an environment where every employee is skills, global perspective, and broadening 20 Talisman Energy Corporate REsponsibility Report 2012 leadership development. As an example, throughout 2012, 80 people participated in our Emerging Leadership and Leadership Development programs – both of which play a key role Calgary, Alberta in enhancing the leadership skills of our employees and developing our future senior leaders. North American gas prices, our shift to reviews – short summaries of the past We continued to develop critical liquids opportunities, and our efforts quarter and some priorities for the technical competencies within the to redeploy existing employees into upcoming quarter, which are distributed organization by focusing on our discipline priority positions. to all global employees to ensure they are networks (D-Nets), which help to assess fully informed. Our intranet and global capabilities, facilitate specific training As a global company, our portfolio employee magazine provide further needs, move technical employees affords us the opportunity to redeploy opportunities to engage employees. around our business, and enable better our talent; indeed, it’s one of the reasons knowledge and skills transfer. employees seek a career at Talisman. In 2012, approximately 3,000 employees This is particularly important when parts answered 67 questions across 18 ATTRACTING, RETAINING, of our business are growing while categories as part of our second global AND ENGAGING others contract. During such times, we employee survey. In doing so, they TALENTED PEOPLE work hard with our employees to ensure helped identify many areas in which we In 2012, we hired 622 people. This people are focused on high-priority, perform well or have improved since our was partially offset by a voluntary value-adding work. last survey in 2010. In particular, 78 per attrition rate of 11 per cent, bringing cent agreed that teamwork is encouraged our total employee population to 3,087 Throughout 2012, and with a backdrop throughout the organization; 83 per cent full-time permanent people. One of of change and uncertainty, we worked said they have a clear understanding the ways we attract new talent into hard to keep our employees informed of their goals and objectives and how our company is by inviting our existing and engaged. We hosted two global town they’re contributing to the company, and employees to refer potential employees. halls and dozens of department and 85 per cent highlighted our continued In 2012, 15 per cent of our new recruits functional town halls. We set in place a focus on safety. in Canada, the US, and the UK came clear employee communication process through our referral program. around our quarterly financial reports, where our CEO and executive leadership We hired 40 new graduates across a team host a leaders’ call to expand upon number of departments and roles. our performance and priorities. These This was slightly less than our anticipated two-way engagements are supported target of 50, reflecting our response to low by quarterly business and operational Talisman Energy Corporate REsponsibility Report 2012 21 PM-3 CAA, Malaysia They also drew attention to areas changes to priorities. There is more to nearly 3,500 hours of service to our where we could do better. In particular, work to do in this area; however, our community. they asked senior leadership for a global employee survey has helped clear “vision of the future” and for senior focus our attention on what matters In the US, more than 120 employees leaders to become role models for most to employees. and retirees spent a total of 300 hours our values and behaviours. They also volunteering with Junior Achievement and shared their perspective that some EMPLOYEE VOLUNTEERING the YWCA. Similar efforts and programs parts of our business had become are evolving in other areas of our business Our employees are active volunteers and unnecessarily complex and that priorities around the world, and will continue to contributors to their local communities. changed too often. be an important part of our community In Calgary, for example, we have focused involvement program in 2013. our efforts on our annual United Way This is valuable feedback for any program, where employee donations and organization, and we took the results and REWARDING PERFORMANCE our corporate matching program have created a plan for improvement, against Our total compensation program links contributed more than C$9.4 million over which we have already made progress. individual performance with corporate the past 13 years. Our new strategic direction has been success and is designed to reward our clearly communicated among employees In 2012 alone, we raised C$1 million for employees in a way that is competitive and outlines a vision for 2013. We shared the United Way of Calgary and Area. It among our industry peers. In spite of an evolved leadership model with our was also our third consecutive year of A challenges in our industry in 2012, the senior leaders in December and are Day Makes a Difference – our week-long employment market remains relatively preparing to cascade it among our global volunteer campaign for employees and robust, and, in order to compete for talent, employees in 2013, while our focus on leadership to lend a hand at various good salary increase budgets were set to reflect two core regions and our reduced capital causes across the city. More than 330 changes in the market. budgets have laid the foundations for employees participated in this program streamlining how we work and reducing in 2012, bringing our three-year total 22 Talisman Energy Corporate REsponsibility Report 2012 In the fall of 2012, and as a result of the shift in company priorities, we took the opportunity to realign our compensation plans with our new strategic direction, taking care to allow for sufficient differentiation between individual and regional performance. Calgary, Alberta Specifically for variable pay, metrics within the plan have shifted from a growth focus to a profitability and efficiency focus, while a new performance and provide a strong alignment with We will continue to review and revise our element was added to increase shareholders, while also allowing us to be compensation program as required in accountability at the regional level. flexible and responsive in our strategic future years to ensure we have the best and capital allocation decisions, without possible approach to attract and retain our Leaders can now more consistently creating disconnects within the program. industry’s best talent. create appropriate levels of differentiation year-over-year as we have stabilized the funding for the individual components of the variable pay plan. These changes increase the plan’s alignment to typical EMPLOYEE DISTRIBUTION NUMBER OF market practice and reinforce our already BY GEOGRAPHY NEW GRADUATES HIRED strong pay-for-performance culture. 2,171 Changes were made to the long-term The Americas 80 incentive program in an effort to increase the plan’s alignment to market, improve 60 employee understanding of the plan, and provide greater consistency in rewards for 40 employees. Refinements to the existing performance share unit plan awards 628 20 were made, and eligible non-executive 288 Asia-Pacific employees will be receiving restricted Rest of World 42 66 40 0 share units (RSUs) for their 2013 longNumber of full-time permanent employees as at term incentive grant. RSUs are full-share December 31, 2012. Excludes our joint venture 2010 2011 2012 units that track Talisman’s share price partnership in the UK North Sea – Talisman Sinopec Energy UK Limited. Talisman Energy Corporate REsponsibility Report 2012 23 COMMUNITIES AND STAKEHOLDERS 24 Talisman Energy Corporate REsponsibility Report 2012 Mekong Delta, Vietnam COMMUNITIES AND STAKEHOLDERS SCORECARD: 2012 PERFORMANCE 269 students studying on $9M contributed $9 million to 6M 6 million people in 63 countries with Talisman scholarships community initiatives worldwide1 access to better water and sanitation 2012 Performance and 2013 Plans What we said we’d do in 2012 What took place in 2012 What we plan for 2013 • Begin developing a process for • Began developing a process for • Collect baseline information on monitoring and evaluating the monitoring and evaluating the community and local benefits implementation of the Global implementation of the Global Community Relations Policy Community Relations Policy • Contribute $10.5 million to • Contributed $9 million to • Continue to contribute to community initiatives in areas community initiatives in areas community initiatives in areas where we are the operator where we are the operator where we are the operator • Identify opportunities for further • Completed initial screening of • Review and, if necessary, realign partnerships with other global additional partnership opportunities global community investment organizations with capabilities with other global organizations partnerships with new relevant to our operations strategic priorities and locations • Review country exit processes to ensure alignment with the Global Community Relations Policy 1. Excludes Peru. Community contribution expenditures for Peru were not finalized at time of this report. Talisman Energy Corporate REsponsibility Report 2012 25 COMMUNITIES AND STAKEHOLDERS OUR APPROACH Our community and stakeholder relations To learn more about our GCRP, visit the corporate responsibility section of our activities are integral to being accepted and website at talisman-energy.com. welcomed into the communities where we operate. In September 2012, Talisman decided We work alongside these communities, outlining our to discontinue operations in Peru and exit the country upon completion of plans, and listening to and addressing concerns. all obligations. This includes fulfilling Our highly experienced people aim to minimize the our commitments to communities and stakeholders, such as reclamation and impact of our operations and maximize the benefits remediation work for wellsites and of our presence. Globally, we focus our investments funding social programs related to health and education. This work is scheduled to in the areas of education, environment, and be completed in 2013. empowering communities. MEASURING BENEFITS TO LOCAL COMMUNITIES Creating local benefits in the communities PROACTIVELY ENGAGING decommissioning and exit. In 2012, and host countries where we operate COMMUNITIES AND we worked on implementing the GCRP includes employment (local labour), STAKEHOLDERS throughout all our operations. business opportunities (provision of Wherever we operate, our goal is to goods and services), and community An example of our policy in action was share information about our business investment (donations and sponsorship). in Colombia, where we worked to ensure plans, learn from the views of others, our operations and engagement with For example, we continue to share the and build strong relationships with local indigenous communities met international benefits of oil and gas exploration with communities – all in support of our best practice standards for human various local communities in Papua New collective, long-term success. and indigenous rights. We conducted Guinea (PNG). Since we first acquired an a detailed, on-the-ground security risk extensive acreage position in PNG’s To help guide us, we introduced the assessment, entered into agreements with Western Province in 2009, we have Global Community Relations Policy the Colombian Public Security Forces, created almost 450 temporary jobs for (GCRP) in 2011. This policy defines and developed a highly participative local workers in our seismic program, and standards such as respecting the rights and tailored consultation process to provided sewing machines, fabric, and and interests of indigenous and tribal support our operations in Block CPE-8. school supplies. In conjunction with the communities, and finding ways for We will continue to build on and further Provincial Government of the Western communities to share in the economic assess our policy’s effectiveness in select Province, we have also set up local benefits of development over the full international locations in 2013. medical clinics and immunization life cycle of our operations, including programs in remote areas. 26 Talisman Energy Corporate REsponsibility Report 2012 Somokopa Village, Western Province of Papua New Guinea To help coordinate such initiatives around primary school to post-secondary, and and water safety training to primary school the world, we began developing a Global encapsulate diverse programs, including children who live in the remote village of Community and Local Benefits Standard engineering and performing arts. Muara Medak, which is isolated by river. in 2012. We will pilot this in 2013, collecting baseline information for We continue to support Ducks Unlimited In December 2012, we were recognized future years. and the World Resources Institute’s for our work with communities in the Aqueduct Alliance, and, through our Kurdistan region of Northern Iraq. Prime The standard has been built in part five-year commitment of $1 million to the Minister Nechirvan Barzani presented us on our existing North American Local Centre for Affordable Water and Sanitation with a special award for our contributions, Economic Engagement Strategy, which Technology (CAWST), six million people including road construction in remote includes prioritizing the hiring of qualified in 63 countries now have access to better communities, drilling water wells, local contractors and working with water and sanitation. funding dental care, constructing animal government to develop programs that watering troughs and washing stations, train and educate local people to work in In Asia-Pacific, our partnership between reconstructing the Qadir Karem Park, our industry. Having a global standard is Talisman Vietnam and the Saigon school repairs, and providing educational important for consistency throughout our Children’s Charity helped launch a supplies. This was the first time a business, and will help us measure and six-month vocational training program company has been singled out for an report on all of the community and local for disadvantaged youth living in Ho Chi award of this kind in the country. benefits across our operations. Minh City, which focused on hospitality skills for the tourism and restaurant To keep our policies and programs COMMUNITY INVESTMENT industries. Our employees and their relevant and effective, we completed a families volunteered in a wide range of thorough re-evaluation and update of our In 2012, we contributed $9 million roles, including administration, teaching Global Corporate Community Involvement to community investment initiatives English, and helping with resume writing Strategy against our business objectives in in areas where we are the operator. and interview skills. 2012, and posted new guidelines on our Some examples include establishing internal and external websites. the Talisman Chair of Environmental In flood-prone areas of Vietnam, drowning Sustainability and a scholarship for is a real issue for young children. To help In 2013, our community investment Aboriginal students at Mount Royal address this, we continued to provide budget will remain focused on University in Calgary. We also created children in grades 1 to 5 with specially empowering communities, education, an endowment fund for the Banff Centre made school bags that become life jackets and the environment. This strategy Emerging Artists Award, providing in the event they fall into water. In the two continues to provide a framework for us international artists with opportunities years since we started this program, to make social investments that are for learning and development. A total of we have delivered almost 10,000 bags. directly aligned with our business 269 students around the world studied Through our partnership with Pertamina in principles and commitments. on Talisman scholarships in 2012. These Indonesia, we also provided life jackets educational scholarships range from Talisman Energy Corporate REsponsibility Report 2012 27 GOVERNANCE 28 Talisman Energy Corporate REsponsibility Report 2012 Eagle Ford, Texas GOVERNANCE SCORECARD: 2012 PERFORMANCE 99% of employees completed 32 issues submitted through our 53% decrease in the number of notices online ethics awareness training Integrity Matters hotline of non-compliance globally 2012 Performance and 2013 Plans What we said we’d do in 2012 What took place in 2012 What we plan for 2013 • Achieve 10% reduction in • 53% reduction in the number of notices • Pilot the Supplier Code of Conduct the number of notices of of non-compliance globally across areas of our operations non-compliance globally • Strive to achieve 100% completion • 99% completion of online ethics • Undertake cross-functional review of online ethics awareness awareness training by employees and of the Policy on Business Conduct training by employees and company directors and Ethics and associated training company directors • Continue to ensure every complaint • Continued to ensure every complaint • Implement internal global community is reviewed and that appropriate is reviewed and that appropriate involvement guidelines action is taken action is taken • Began to measure global Health, Safety, • Continue to measure global HSSE Security and Environment (HSSE) standard implementation against standard implementation against country-specific milestones and plans country-specific milestones and plans for existing HSSE standards for existing HSSE standards • Conduct an implementation • Partially completed an implementation assessment of the Voluntary Principles assessment of the Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights on Security and Human Rights Talisman Energy Corporate REsponsibility Report 2012 29 GOVERNANCE OUR APPROACH Strong governance and business practices start at against more than 30 internationally active corporations by an external risk the Board of Directors and are reinforced throughout consultant, and was rated third for all levels of management and operations. Our four key best practice. focus areas are governance structure and processes, BUSINESS ETHICS business ethics, transparency and compliance. Policy on Business Conduct and Ethics (PBCE) Talisman promotes and encourages a culture of ethical business conduct. Our GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE a top priority in order to provide effective PBCE provides guidelines for employees on AND PROCESSES oversight of our new strategic priorities. The Governance and Nominating a wide range of issues, including personal Board of Directors Committee of the Board continues to conduct, human rights, community The principal role of the Board of oversee a Board renewal process. relations, and HSSE. Every year, employees Directors, as representatives of our complete an online ethics awareness shareholders, is both the stewardship of More information on this can be found in training course centred on the PBCE, and our company and creating shareholder the 2012 Management Proxy Circular on are required to sign a compliance certificate value. Having clear structures in our website, talisman-energy.com. and report any observed breaches. In 2012, place ensures our Board can function 99 per cent of employees and company Risk Management directors completed the training. In 2013, independently from management. The roles of Chairman of the Board and CEO Our primary process for identifying and we are conducting a cross-functional review have been separate since 1993. We have evaluating risks to the company, including of the PBCE and our associated training, 11 directors, all of whom are independent, operational, HSSE, social, political, including analyzing the current systems and except for our President and CEO. The and reputational, is through our Enterprise processes for delivery. Board has six standing committees: Audit, Risk Management (ERM) program. In 2012, we began working on a Governance and Nominating, Human Oversight of risk management is Supplier Code of Conduct, which clearly Resources, Reserves, Executive, and embedded in our Board and communicates to our suppliers our Health, Safety, Environment and committee structures. expectations for ethical performance. Corporate Responsibility. In addition to the ERM, we have a In 2013, we plan to complete a pilot In early 2012, the Board determined number of other tailored risk analysis of the code as well as associated risk a change in strategic direction and and monitoring tools. One example is assessment processes across areas of leadership was required. They reacted our quarterly Political Risk Dashboard, our operations. quickly and decisively in a changing which allows us to track changes in the regulatory and political environments Integrity Matters environment, appointing Hal Kvisle as President and CEO in September 2012. of the countries where we operate. In Our Integrity Matters hotline provides an Board renewal and director succession is 2012, our approach was benchmarked open and accessible way for employees, 30 Talisman Energy Corporate REsponsibility Report 2012 vendors, independent contractors, and other stakeholders to raise grievances they may have about our company in relation to our PBCE. The hotline is available 24 hours a day, seven days a week, and in more than 140 languages. Each year, following its introduction in 2009, we continue to raise awareness of the hotline, particularly among our Eagle Ford, Texas employees who are made aware of its purpose and encouraged to use it as part of their annual ethics awareness training course. We take every complaint Voluntary Principles on Security and audit has been incorporated into our seriously, making sure it goes to the right Human Rights (VPSHR) planning cycle in 2013. level of management for investigation We continue to participate in the VPSHR United Nations Global and appropriate action. In 2012, a plenary group, and also as an industry Compact (UNGC) total of 32 issues were raised from five representative on the steering committee countries through the hotline; nine were We continue to be involved for companies involved in the Voluntary internal, five were external, and 18 with the UNGC – a network that Principles (VPs). From an implementation were anonymous. This is a 78 per cent supports companies in applying or perspective, train-the-trainer programs increase in the number of complaints in implementing principles related to were undertaken in 2012. 2011, which can be partially attributed to human rights, labour, the environment, increased awareness of the facility. Equally We completed an independent third-party and anti-corruption. important, many of the calls received audit of our Global Security organization, were not directly related to integrity, which included a thorough review of our but to observations and comments protocols, procedures, and guidelines for people chose to share through a private corporate and country-specific security. channel. Each complaint was reviewed, The audit observed that our security assessed, and investigated appropriately. delivery at the tactical level meets and Recommendations and learnings from exceeds industry best practices; the these investigations were discussed and professionalism, expertise, and initiative management actions were taken of our security personnel is excellent; and as necessary. the VPs are well incorporated into our agreements with external stakeholders, You can learn more about the PBCE and such as host nations and security Integrity Matters hotline by visiting our providers. All of the feedback from the website, talisman-energy.com. Talisman Energy Corporate REsponsibility Report 2012 31 Yavo Base, Western Province of Papua New Guinea TRANSPARENCY Political Donations regulatory awareness. We received one notice of non-compliance in the Extractive Industries At the provincial level in Canada, political UK, resulting from a dropped object Transparency Initiative (EITI) contributions totalling approximately on a platform. We continue to analyze C$29,000 were provided to political We have participated in the EITI since every incident and every inspection by parties in British Columbia and Alberta 2005, which includes full publication regulators, with and without violations, in 2012. In the US, we paid $25,000 for and verification of royalties, taxes, so we can develop plans for improvement. corporate memberships to the Democratic other material payments, and government Governors Association. revenues from oil, gas, and mining activities across our global operations. COMPLIANCE We believe an important way to establish greater economic transparency is Regulatory Compliance through the public disclosure of revenue All of our operations are subject to a payments to host governments. We wide variety of laws and regulations, support increased transparency that and we are required to report all notices generates information that is meaningful of non-compliance of health, safety, to intended audiences, and that does not environment, and operational integrity. compromise confidentiality or fair In 2012, we exceeded our target of a competitive advantage. 10 per cent reduction in the number of notices of non-compliance globally. We We are also subject to new US Securities saw significant improvements in our North and Exchange Commission (SEC) rules America Operations; in Canada, this regarding payment disclosures, which will was due to better regulatory compliance apply to payments made starting October awareness and inspection processes, 1, 2013. Thereafter, we will be required to and, in the US, to establishing a positive report payments annually in accordance working relationship with the regulatory with the new SEC rules. enforcement authorities and improved 32 Talisman Energy Corporate REsponsibility Report 2012 KEY NUMBERS All data is global and as of December 31, 2012 unless otherwise stated. All currencies in US dollars unless otherwise stated. This table provides a snapshot of different areas of our performance. For a further list of key numbers, visit the Corporate Responsibility section of our website at talisman-energy.com. Indicator 2012 2011 2010 Health Number of Fatalities 0 1 1 and Safety Lost-time Injury Frequency 0.62 0.54 0.98 (Number of lost-time injuries per million exposure hours) Total Recordable Injury Frequency 3.02 3.62 4.68 (Number of recordable injuries per million exposure hours) Operational Flammable Unintentional Hydrocarbon Release Frequency 1.06 0.98 N/A Integrity (Number of flammable unintentional hydrocarbon releases per million exposure hours) Environment Total Energy use 49,787,000 53,381,000 50,747,000 Gigajoules Production Energy Intensity 0.294 0.325 0.318 Gigajoules per barrel of oil equivalent Total CO2 Equivalent Emissions 12,165,000 12,207,000 12,820,000 Tonnes Production Carbon Intensity 0.072 0.074 0.080 Tonnes of CO2 equivalent emissions per barrel of oil equivalent Fresh Water Use 2,579 3,888 2,998 1,000 cubic metres Flaring 481,511 524,425 544,000 1,000 cubic metres Number of Spills 96 134 108 Greater than 0.5 barrel Volume of Spills 368 707 499 Greater than 0.5 barrel, expressed in cubic metres People Number of Employees 3,0871 3,600 2,975 Full-time permanent Employee Turnover 11.3 6.8 6.2 Expressed as %, not including retirements Communities Community Contributions 9.02 9.5 8.5 $millions in total funding to community initiatives Economic Production 426 426 417 Thousand barrels of oil equivalent per day Net income 132 776 945 $millions Exploration and development expenditures3 3,511 4,142 3,473 $millions Governance Number of Certificates of Compliance with Policy on 5,469 6,002 4,760 Business Conduct and Ethics Received Employee and contract Amount of Money Paid to Political Parties Canada C29,000 19,775 46,645 US 25,000 50,000 not previously reported 1. Number of full-time permanent employees as at December 31, 2012. Excludes employees in our joint venture partnership in the UK North Sea – Talisman Sinopec Energy UK Limited. 2. Excludes Peru. Community contribution expenditures for Peru were not finalized at time of this report. 3. Excludes exploration expensed. Talisman Energy Corporate REsponsibility Report 2012 33 INDEPENDENT LIMITED ASSURANCE STATEMENT To the Board of Directors and Management of Talisman Energy Inc. (“Talisman”) Our Responsibilities procedures, our limited assurance engagement • Checking the accuracy of calculations Our limited assurance engagement has been was not designed to express a conclusion on performed, on a test basis, primarily planned and performed in accordance with internal controls. through inquiry, variance analysis and the International Standard on Assurance re-performance of calculations, and Work Performed Engagements ISAE 3000 “Assurance analytical procedures In order for us to express a conclusion in Engagements other than Audits or Reviews of • Checking that data and statements had been relation to the above scope of work, we have Historical Financial Information”. correctly transcribed from corporate systems sought to answer the following questions for the Subject Matter Subject Matter reviewed: and/or supporting evidence into the Report We have performed a limited assurance Completeness Limitations of our Work Performed engagement on the corporate responsibility Our scope of work did not include expressing • Has Talisman fairly presented performance performance indicators that are presented in conclusions in relation to: information concerning the selected bold type in the Performance Data Tables on performance indicators with respect to • The materiality, completeness or accuracy page 33 of the 2012 Corporate Responsibility the boundaries and time period defined of data sets or information relating to areas Report “the Report” for the year ended in the Report? other than the selected performance data, December 31, 2012 which covers corporate responsibility performance information that has • Has Talisman included sustainability and any site-specific information been prepared by Talisman Management. performance information from all • Information reported outside of Talisman’s material entities in its defined boundary 2012 Corporate Responsibility Report Criteria for its reporting of the selected Talisman has prepared its specified performance indicators? • Management’s forward-looking statements performance information in accordance with • Any comparisons made by Talisman against the GRI G3 Guidelines or where relevant, • Has Talisman accurately collated corporate data relating to the selected performance historical data internally developed criteria. indicators from operations level data? • The appropriateness of definitions for Talisman Management Responsibilities internally developed criteria Accuracy The Report was prepared by the management • Is the data reported for the selected Our Conclusion of Talisman, who is responsible for the collection and presentation of the performance performance indicators sufficiently accurate Based on our procedures for this limited indicators, statements, claims in the Report and detailed for stakeholders to assess assurance engagement described in this and the criteria used in determining that the Talisman’s performance? Report, nothing has come to our attention that information is appropriate for the purpose Our assurance procedures at Talisman’s causes us to believe that the Subject Matter of disclosure in the Report. In addition, corporate head office included but were not is not, in all material respects, reported in management is responsible for maintaining limited to: accordance with the relevant criteria. adequate records and internal controls that are designed to support the reporting process. • Interviewing selected personnel at Corporate and selected international sites Level of Assurance to understand the key sustainability issues related to the selected performance data and Calgary, Alberta Our procedures were designed to obtain a processes for the collection and accurate May 15, 2013 limited level of assurance on which to base our conclusions. The procedures conducted do not reporting of performance information provide all the evidence that would be required • Where relevant, obtaining an understanding in a reasonable assurance engagement and of the design and implementation of accordingly, we do not express a conclusion systems and processes for data aggregation conveying a reasonable level of assurance. and reporting While we obtained an understanding of management’s internal processes when • Checking the completeness of key determining the nature and extent of our assumptions and the evidence to support the assumptions 34 Talisman Energy Corporate REsponsibility Report 2012 FORWARD-LOOKING INFORMATION This report contains information that constitutes “forwardfracturing; uncertainties as to the availability and cost of credit Prospective resources are those quantities of petroleum looking information” or “forward-looking statements” and other financing and changes in capital markets; risks estimated, as of a given date, to be potentially recoverable (collectively “forward-looking information”) within the meaning in conducting foreign operations (for example, civil, political from undiscovered accumulations by application of future of applicable securities legislation. This forward-looking and fiscal instability and corruption); risks related to the development projects. Prospective resources have both an information includes, among others, statements regarding: attraction, retention and development of personnel; changes associated chance of discovery and a chance of development. business strategy, priorities and plans; expected allocation of in general economic and business conditions; the possibility There is no certainty that any portion of the resources will be the capital budget; expected production; planned reduction that government policies, regulations or laws may change discovered. If discovered, there is no certainty that it will be in lost-time injury frequency, total recordable injury frequency or governmental approvals may be delayed or withheld; and commercially viable to produce any portion of the resources. and flammable unintentional hydrocarbon release frequency; results of the Company’s risk mitigation strategies, including Unrisked prospective resources are not risked for change planned reduction in spill frequency; planned continuation insurance and any hedging activities. of development or chance of discovery. If a discovery is of implementation of the Shale Operating Principles; planned The foregoing list of risk factors is not exhaustive. Additional made, there is no certainty that it will be developed or, if it redeployment of people wherever possible in response to information on these and other factors which could affect is developed, there is no certainty as to the timing of such new strategic priorities; planned development of critical the Company’s operations or financial results or strategy are development. In this report risked prospective resources have technical competencies; planned communication of the included in Talisman’s most recent Annual Information Form. been risked for chance of discovery but have not been risked leadership model and integration with appropriate people In addition, information is available in the Company’s other for chance of development. If a discovery is made, there is no processes; planned maintenance of ongoing communication reports on file with Canadian securities regulatory authorities certainty that it will be developed or, if it is developed, there is with employees and planned pulse-check survey; planned and the United States Securities and Exchange Commission. no certainty as to the timing of such development. review of country exit processes; planned collection of baseline Forward-looking information is based on the estimates and Production and Reserves Volumes information on community and local benefits; planned review opinions of the Company’s management at the time the Unless otherwise stated, production volumes and reserves and potential realignment of global community investment information is presented. The Company assumes no obligation estimates are stated on a company interest basis prior to the partnerships; planned review of the PBCE and associated to update forward-looking information should circumstances deduction of royalties and similar payments. In the US, net training; planned piloting of the Supplier Code of Conduct; or management’s estimates or opinions change, except as production volumes and reserve estimates are reported after planned implementation of internal global community required by law. the deduction of these amounts. US readers may refer to the involvement guidelines; planned continued measurement of Reserves table headed “Continuity of Net Proved Reserves” in Talisman’s global HSSE standard implementation; and other expectations, National Instrument 51-101 (“NI 51-101”) of the Canadian most recent Annual Information Form for a statement of beliefs, plans, goals, objectives, assumptions, information and Securities Administrators imposes oil and gas disclosure Talisman’s net production volumes and reserves. The use of the statements about possible future events, conditions, results of standards for Canadian public companies engaged in oil word “gross” in this report means a 100% interest prior to the operations or performance. The company priorities disclosed and gas activities. Talisman has obtained an exemption from deduction of royalties and similar payments. in this report are objectives only and their achievement cannot be guaranteed. Canadian securities regulatory authorities to permit it to provide Non-Core Assets certain disclosures in accordance with the US disclosure In this report, all references to “core” and “non-core” assets The factors or assumptions on which the forward-looking standards, in addition to the disclosure mandated by NI and properties align with the company’s current public information is based include: assumptions inherent in current 51-101, in order to provide for comparability of oil and gas disclosure regarding its assets and properties. guidance; projected capital investment levels; the flexibility of disclosure with that provided by US and other international capital spending plans and the associated sources of funding; BOE Conversion issuers. Accordingly, in addition to the reserves data and the successful and timely implementation of capital projects; Throughout this report, barrels of oil equivalent (boe) are certain other oil and gas information included in this report the continuation of tax, royalty and regulatory regimes; ability to calculated at a conversion rate of six thousand cubic feet which is provided in accordance with NI 51-101, there is data obtain regulatory and partner approval; commodity price and (mcf) of natural gas for one barrel of oil (bbl). This report and information provided in accordance with US disclosure cost assumptions; and other risks and uncertainties described also includes references to mcf equivalents (mcfes) which standards. in the filings made by the company with securities regulatory are calculated at a conversion rate of one barrel of oil to authorities. The Company believes the material factors, A separate exemption granted to Talisman also permits it to six thousand cubic feet of gas. Boes and Mcfes may be expectations and assumptions reflected in the forward-looking disclose internally evaluated reserves data. Any reserves and misleading, particularly if used in isolation. A boe conversion information are reasonable but no assurance can be given resources data contained in this report reflects Talisman’s ratio of 6mcf:1bbl and an mcfe conversion ratio of 1bbl:6mcf that these factors, expectations and assumptions will prove to estimates of its reserves and resources. While Talisman are based on an energy equivalence conversion method be correct. Forward-looking information for periods past 2013 annually obtains an independent audit of a portion of its proved primarily applicable at the burner tip and do not represent a assumes escalating commodity prices. and probable reserves, no independent qualified reserves value equivalency at the well head. evaluator or auditor was involved in the preparation of the Undue reliance should not be placed on forward-looking IFRS reserves and resources data disclosed in this report. information. Forward-looking information is based on current Resources1 The financial information for contained herein is presented in expectations, estimates and projections that involve a number accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards of risks which could cause actual results to vary and in In this report, Talisman also discloses contingent resources (IFRS). IFRS may differ from generally accepted accounting some instances to differ materially from those anticipated by and prospective resources as at February 28, 2013. Where not principles in the US. Talisman and described in the forward-looking information otherwise indicated, in this report, the contingent resources contained in this report. The material risk factors include, but provided are 2C and the prospective resources are unrisked Non-GAAP Financial Measures are not limited to: the risks of the oil and gas industry, such best estimates. Included in this report are references to financial measures as operational risks in exploring for, developing and producing Contingent resources are defined as those quantities of used in the oil and gas industry such as cash flow and crude oil and natural gas; risks and uncertainties involving petroleum estimated, as of a given date, to be potentially exploration and development spending. These terms are not geology of oil and gas deposits; risks associated with project recoverable from known accumulations using established defined by IFRS. Consequently, these are referred to as nonmanagement, project delays and/or cost overruns; uncertainty technology or technology under development, but which are GAAP measures. Talisman’s reported results of such measures related to securing sufficient egress and access to markets; not currently considered to be commercially recoverable due may not be comparable to similarly titled measures reported by the uncertainty of reserve and resource estimates, reserves to one or more contingencies. The contingencies that prevent other companies. life and underlying reservoir risk; the uncertainty of estimates the resources from being classified as reserves are: lack of gas Cash Flow represents net income before exploration costs, and projections relating to production, costs and expenses, sales contract; additional testing; production and performance DD&A, impairment, deferred taxes and other non-cash including decommissioning liabilities; risks related to strategic appraisal activities; development time frame too far in the expenses. Cash flow is used by the Company to assess and capital allocation decisions, including potential delays or future; demonstration of economic viability; facilities and operating results between years and between peer companies changes in plans with respect to exploration or development egress; access to equipment and services; hydraulic fracturing using different accounting policies. Cash flow should not be projects or capital expenditures; fluctuations in oil and gas technology; commodity prices and regulatory approvals. There considered an alternative to, or more meaningful than, cash prices, foreign currency exchange rates, interest rates and is no certainty that it will be commercially viable to produce any provided by operating, investing and financing activities or net tax or royalty rates; the outcome and effects of any future portion of the resources. In addition to these contingencies and income as determined in accordance with IFRS as an indicator acquisitions and dispositions; health, safety, security and uncertainties the development of commerciality of resources of the company’s performance or liquidity. environmental risks, including risks related to the possibility is also subject to a number of risk factors, as discussed more Exploration and development spending is calculated by of major accidents; environmental regulatory and compliance fully above. adjusting the capital expenditure per the financial statements risks, including with respect to greenhouse gases and hydraulic for exploration costs that were expensed as incurred. 1. The reserves life index (“RLI”) of 12 years for proved plus probable reserves in the Americas and Asia-Pacific was calculated by dividing the year-end proved plus probable reserves by the 2013 production guidance in the Americas and Asia-Pacific. Talisman Energy Corporate REsponsibility Report 2012 35 GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE (GRI) Profile Location in CR Report / Disclosure GRI Description other TLM disclosures 1. Strategy and Analysis 1.1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organization CRR p. 6 7 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities AIF p. 28 36 2. Organizational Profile 2.1 Name of the organization CRR IFC, AIF p. 1 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services AIF p. 4 2.3 Operational structure of the organization, including main divisions, operating companies, AIF p. 1 & 4 subsidiaries, and joint ventures 2.4 Location of organization’s headquarters AIF p. 1 2.5 Number of countries where the organization operates AIF p. 4 17 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form AIF p. 1 2.7 Markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, and types AIF p. 4 17 of customers/beneficiaries) 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization CRR p. 2 3, AR p. 1 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding size, structure, or ownership AR p. 27 28 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period CRR IFC 3. Report Parameters 3.1 Reporting period (e.g., fiscal/calendar year) for information provided CRR IFC 3.2 Date of most recent previous report (if any) CRR Web page 3.3 Reporting cycle (annual, biennial, etc.) CRR IFC 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents CRR IFC 3.5 Process for defining report content CRR IFC 3.6 Boundary of the report CRR IFC 3.7 State any specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the report CRR IFC 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, CRR IFC outsourced operations, etc. 3.9 Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations, including Online data tables assumptions, estimations, etc. 3.10 Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information provided in earlier reports, etc. Online data tables 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, boundary, Online data tables or measurement methods applied in the report 3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures in the report CRR p. 38 40 3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report CRR p. 34 4. Governance, Commitments, and Engagement 4.1 Governance structure of the organization, including committees CRR p. 30, MPC p. 16 33 4.2 Chair of the highest governance body CRR p. 30 4.3 Number of members of the highest governance body that are independent CRR p. 30 and/or non-executive members 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recommendations or direction MPC 1 4, 16 17 to the highest governance body 36 Talisman Energy Corporate REsponsibility Report 2012 GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE (GRI) 4.5 Linkage between compensation and the organization’s performance (including social MPC p. 34 78 and environmental performance) 4.6 Processes in place for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts of interest AIF p. 28 are avoided 4.7 Process for determining the qualifications and expertise of the members of the MPC p. 6 highest governance body 4.8 Internally developed statements of mission or values, codes of conduct, and principles, etc. AIF p. 17 18 4.9 Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing the organization’s CRR p. 30 CR performance 4.10 Processes for evaluating the highest governance body’s own performance MPC p. 26 & 33 4.11 Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed AIF p. 17 18 by the organization 4.12 Externally developed economic, environmental, and social charters, principles, or other CRR p. 31 32 initiatives to which the organization subscribes or endorses 4.13 Memberships in associations (such as industry associations) and/or national/international CRR p. 31 32 advocacy organizations, etc. 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization CRR IFC 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage CRR IFC 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement by type CRR IFC and by stakeholder group 4.17 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement AR p. 42 48, CRR IFC Economic Performance Indicators DMA EC Disclosure of Management’s Approach Economic CRR p. 26 27 EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed, including revenues, operating costs, CRR p. 26 27, AR p. 16 community investments, etc. EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organization’s activities AR p. 46 due to climate change EC3 Coverage of the organization’s defined benefit plan obligations AR p. 63 EC6 Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on locally-based suppliers at significant CRR p. 26 27 locations of operation Environmental Performance Indicators DMA EN Disclosure of Management’s Approach Environment AIF p. 17 18 EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source CRR p. 33, online data tables EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source CRR p. 33, online data tables EN8 Total water withdrawal by source CRR p. 33, online data tables EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight CRR p. 33, online data tables EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight Online data tables EN20 NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions by type and weight Online data tables EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method Online data tables EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills CRR p. 33, online data tables EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and services, and extent CRR p. 16 17 of impact mitigation Talisman Energy Corporate REsponsibility Report 2012 37 GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE (GRI) Social: Labor Practices and Decent Work DMA LA Disclosure of Management’s Approach Labor Practices CRR p. 20 21 LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, and region broken CRR p. 21, 23 & 33, down by gender online data tables LA2 Total number and rate of new employee hires and employee turnover by age group, CRR p. 21 , 23 & 33, gender, and region online data tables LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and number of CRR p. 11 & 33, work-related fatalities, etc. online data tables LA11 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued CRR p. 20 21 employability of employees and assist them in managing career endings LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews CRR p. 20 21 LA13 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per category according to online data tables gender, age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity Social: Human Rights DMA HR Disclosure of Management’s Approach Human Rights CRR p. 31, AIF p. 17 Social: Society DMA SO Disclosure of Management’s Approach Society CRR p. 26, AIF p. 17 SO1 Percentage of operations with implemented local community engagement, impact CRR p. 26 27 assessments, and development programs SO3 Percentage of employees trained in organization’s anti-corruption policies and procedures CRR p. 29 30 SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption CRR p. 30 31 SO5 Public policy positions and participation in public policy development and lobbying CRR p. 32 SO6 Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to political parties, politicians, CRR p. 32 and related institutions by country SO9 Operations with significant potential or actual negative impacts on local communities AIF p. 32 33 SO10 Mitigation measures implemented in operations with significant potential or actual CRR p. 16 & 26 negative impacts on local communities Key: AIF = Annual Information Form AR = Annual Report CRR = Corporate Responsibility Report MPC = Management Proxy Circular IFC = inside front cover All of the above reports are available on our website, talisman-energy.com. 38 Talisman Energy Corporate REsponsibility Report 2012 BOARD OF DIRECTORS EXECUTIVES Talisman Energy Inc. 2000, 888 3rd Street SW Christiane Bergevin 3,4 Harold Kvisle Calgary, Alberta, Canada T2P 5C5 Quebec, Canada President and Chief p: 403.237.1234 Executive Officer Donald Carty 1,5 f: 403.237.1902 Texas, United States Paul Blakeley talisman-energy.com Executive Vice-President William Dalton 1,3,6 e: cr@talisman-energy.com Asia-Pacific Arizona, United States Richard Herbert Kevin Dunne 4,6 Executive Vice-President Tortola, British Virgin Islands Exploration and Development Harold Kvisle 2 Bob Rooney Alberta, Canada Executive Vice-President General Counsel Brian M. Levitt 3,5 Quebec, Canada Paul Smith Executive Vice-President Lisa Stewart 5,6 North America Texas, United States Scott Thomson Peter Tomsett 4,5 Executive Vice-President British Columbia, Canada Finance and Chief Financial Officer Michael Waites 1,6 Paul Warwick British Columbia, Canada Executive Vice-President Charles Williamson 2 Europe-Atlantic Chairman of the Board Helen Wesley California, United States Executive Vice-President Charles Winograd 1,3 Corporate Services Ontario, Canada 1 Member of Audit Committee 2 Member of Executive Committee 3 Member of Governance and Nominating Committee 4 Member of Health, Safety, Environment and Corporate Responsibility Committee 5 Member of Human Resources Committee Talisman has produced a separate Annual Report, which is available by contacting 6 Member of Reserves Committee the company and can also be viewed or downloaded at talisman-energy.com
