Schaffner Group I Nordstrasse 11 I 4542 Luterbach I Switzerland P +41 32 681 66 26 I F +41 32 681 66 30 I www.schaffner.com UN Global Compact Communication on Progress April 2013 1. Schaffner Energy Efficiency and Reliability The Schaffner Group is a global leader in the development and production of solutions that ensure the efficient and reliable operation of power electronic systems. The company’s portfolio ranges from EMC filters, power quality filters and power magnetic components to the development and implementation of customized solutions. Schaffner components are deployed in energy-efficient drive systems and electronic motor controls, in wind power and photovoltaic systems, in rail technology applications, machine tools and robotics as well as in electrical infrastructure and in power supplies for a wide range of electronic devices used in sectors such as medical technology. For the automobile industry, Schaffner develops and manufactures components for convenience and safety features in cars and, in the promising electro mobility market, solutions both for electric drive systems in vehicles and for their charging infrastructure. Schaffner provides on-site service to customers around the world through its global application centers and distribution organization, and invests heavily in research and development in order to expand its position as international market leader. 2. Statement of Continued Support «Schaffner is a global corporate citizen with Swiss heritage. This heritage comes with strong principles to protect the rights of the individual, to preserve the environment, and to conduct business according to high ethical standards. Our whole organization strives to treat all of our employees with equal respect. We are mindful that we share a responsibility to provide opportunities for individuals and contribute to the well-being of our communities. I personally am committed to apply such principles equally in each location where Schaffner is represented. This is why I whole-heartedly support the principles of the UN Global Compact.» Alexander Hagemann Chief Executive Officer 30.04.2013 UNGC COP Team Luterbach 1I5 Schaffner Group I Nordstrasse 11 I 4542 Luterbach I Switzerland P +41 32 681 66 26 I F +41 32 681 66 30 I www.schaffner.com 3. Actions 3.1 Human Rights and Labor (Principle 1 to 6) The Schaffner Group strives towards a non-discriminatory company culture based upon responsibility and respect, which builds upon the talents of its global workforce. It is the policy of the Schaffner Group to treat all current or potential employees fairly and without prejudice. Schaffner is committed to eradicate and prevent any unfair or discriminatory practices. All employees will be given the opportunity to progress within the Schaffner Group regardless of their gender, marital or parental status, ethnic or national origin, sexual orientation, religious belief, political affiliation, age (subject to contractual retirement age), or disability. Recently completed actions Target Action Results All units of the Annual internal Audits in all PRU Units. All units completed by Schaffner Group must Start with the first check-up according to the Code the end of 2012 comply with the of Conduct promoted by the Electronics Industry Group's policies for Citizenship Coalition (EICC). human rights and labor laws according to the UN Global Compact. All units shall have a Align the needs of the divisional Organization and EMC division yearly employee start implementation. completed by the end review according to of 2012 Start with EMC. division defined standard Key Performance Indicators (KPI) and Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Planned actions Target Action Expected Results All units shall have a Align the needs of the new divisional organization Completed until yearly employee and start implementation: December 2013 review according to defined standard Key  Automotive division Performance  Power Magnetics division Indicators (KPI) and Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) 30.04.2013 UNGC COP Team Luterbach 2I5 Schaffner Group I Nordstrasse 11 I 4542 Luterbach I Switzerland P +41 32 681 66 26 I F +41 32 681 66 30 I www.schaffner.com 3.2 Environmental Management 3.2.1 Energy Consumption Recently completed actions Target Action Results Reduce energy Replacement of existing windows with highly Approx. 15% energy consumption at HQ insulated models at HQ office building in savings in office facility Luterbach, Switzerland. building Reduce energy Ongoing energy reduction program in Thailand Total >7% sustainable consumption for facility: electricity saving cooling/heating at all  Insulated drop roof Schaffner facilities  Installed energy optimizing system for lighting  Installed efficient cooling system for injection molding machines and air conditioners  Improved air conditioner maintenance Reduce electricity Replacement of existing IT servers with efficient, 65% savings in consumption for IT state-of-the-art models (no air conditioning of electricity used for IT hardware operations server room required) at Schaffner locations server operations Schaffner worldwide Wittelsheim, Argenteuil, Edison, Lohja, Wytheville and Büren. Planned actions Target Action Expected Results Reduce electricity Replacement of existing IT servers with efficient, 65% savings in consumption for IT state-ofthe-art models (no air conditioning of electricity used for IT hardware operations server room required) at Schaffner locations server operations Schaffner worldwide Kecskemet and Karlsruhe. Further energy savings Continual energy saving efforts Measurement method in additional facilities  Insulating not yet defined  Investments in efficient systems only  Reduction of electricity consumption of HVAC units by installing variable speed motor drives Reduce petrol Replace company cars with fuel efficient or 20% fuel reduction consumption hybrid/electric cars only over 5 years 3.2.2 CO2-Reduction Recently completed actions Target Action Results Continually reduce Changed 20% of total freight volume from air Measurement method CO2-emissions caused freight to sea freight. not yet defined by transportation of Supply of automotive products from Thailand to goods Korea was switched from air to sea freight by 80%. 30.04.2013 UNGC COP Team Luterbach 3I5 Schaffner Group I Nordstrasse 11 I 4542 Luterbach I Switzerland P +41 32 681 66 26 I F +41 32 681 66 30 I www.schaffner.com Planned actions Target Action Expected Results Continually reduce Continue to change transportation of goods from Measurement method CO2-emissions caused air freight to sea freight. not yet defined by transportation of goods Consolidated As most suppliers are based in BKK area, Measurement method transportation transport consolidation is planned for material not yet defined BKK-CNX supply to Chiang Mai. 3.2.3 Product Content Restrictions Recently completed actions Target Action Results Support the Conflict Set up and introduce a Schaffner conflict minerals Policy introduced and Minerals Act policy. posted on Schaffner webpage Planned actions Target Action Expected Results Enforce Conflict Request suppliers to implement a conflict minerals >50% of key suppliers Minerals Policy policy. Update internal guidelines accordingly. have implemented and maintain the policy 30.04.2013 UNGC COP Team Luterbach 4I5 Schaffner Group I Nordstrasse 11 I 4542 Luterbach I Switzerland P +41 32 681 66 26 I F +41 32 681 66 30 I www.schaffner.com 3.3 Anti-Corruption Neither the Schaffner Group nor any of its employees shall make illegal or improper payments or bribes and will refrain from participating in any corrupt business practices. Neither Schaffner nor any of its employees may accept payments, gifts or other kinds of remuneration from a third party that could affect or appear to affect their objectivity in business decisions. Recently completed actions Target Action Results No corruption cases Analyze business units for risks related to Analysis completed within the Schaffner corruption. July 2012 Group Roll out and training of Roll out in the whole Group either as a part of the 96% completed by the EICC Code of Conduct Schaffner Manual for employees or as an end of March 2013 version 4 with integrated part of the employment contract. emphasis on Awareness training to all employees. 55% completed by the Anti-Corruption Minimum 50% of employees have to be trained by end of March 2013 April 2013, 100% by the end of 2013. Planned actions Target Action Expected Results Complete training of Awareness training completed completed by the end EICC Code of Conduct of 2013 with emphasis on AntiAnnual e-based awareness training of all completed by the end Corruption employees of 2014 Define Schaffner antiDefine an anti-corruption policy and have it completed by the end corruption policy approved by the Management Board. of July 2013 according to the EICC Roll out the policy to all employees. completed by the end Code of Conduct of August 2013 30.04.2013 UNGC COP Team Luterbach 5I5
