N E 2 0 12 A B IL I T Y DANO SUS RT T A IN Strategy and Per formance R E P O A T EGIC R ST LIGHTS HIGH For All, Health, Nature People, fo rmance GRI perors indicat SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 StratEgY 4 6 14 EDITORIAL KEY SOCIAL STRATEGY 2012 FRANCK RIBOUD TOPICS HIGHLIGHTS NUTRITION AND HEALTH ISSUES 7 HEALTH 15 SOCIAL ISSUES 10 FOR ALL 22 ENVIRONMENTAL ISSUES 12 PEOPLE 28 NATURE 34 40 56 MEASURING PROGRESS HISTORICAL AND PERFORMANCE APPROACH AND THROUGHOUT HIGHLIGHTS THE VALUE CHAIN DANONE WAY 41 REFERENCE DOCUMENTS 57 RESPECT 46 HIGHLIGHTS AND DANONE’S EVALUATION KEY DATES 1972-2012 58 BY NON-FINANCIAL RATING AGENCIES 50 2 Danone Sustainability Report 2012 Performance 62 72 74 GRI Index IMPACTS AND COMPANY PROFILE AND Self-evaluation of the RESPONSIBILITIES REPORT PARAMETERS application of GRI according to version IN BUSINESS, FROM 3.0 guidelines for the GRI with approval by END TO END KPMG Audit. COMPANY PROFILE 75 REPORT PARAMETERS 76 VALIDATION OF THE REPORT BY AN EXTERNAL THIRD PARTY 83 86 176 PERFORMANCE Contacts INDICATORS GOVERNANCE, COMMITMENTS AND DIALOGUE 86 ECONOMIC 94 ENVIRONMENTAL 102 SOCIAL 134 HUMAN RIGHTS 152 SOCIETY 158 PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY 166 Danone Sustainability Report 2012 3 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 EDITORIAL FRANCK RIBOUD T he year 2012 confirmed in spectacular manner In this rapidly changing world, Danone’s actions are guided the profound shift in the global economy that by its “dual economic and social project,” which celebrated is gathering pace. On the one hand, new its 40th anniversary in 2012. When visionary Antoine economic powers such as China, India and Brazil are Riboud conceived this “dual project” back in 1972, he felt growing as other economies such as Indonesia and Nigeria that economic and social (or societal) interests should not are emerging as future powers. On the other, many be pitted against one another, but instead that a company’s countries of the so-called developed world are marked by duty was to find a way to combine the two and to make the stagnation, recession and a worrisome financial situation. necessary adjustments for a given context. This vision does not lock the company into a straightjacket of rigid social or This trend is also reflected in Danone’s activity. The group environmental obligations, but enables it to adapt to local continued to record strong, and in some cases very strong environments in order to come up with the right models growth in numerous countries, further strengthening its that create both economic value as well as social and positions in the emerging economies. In Europe, however, environmental value. sales and margins in 2012 were affected in several of the group’s major historical countries such as Spain and France. The success of the Danone Ecosystem Fund provides a Given this situation, management’s responsibility consists useful illustration of this approach. In three years, this fund in adjusting its strategies quickly and rethinking its has invested in 43 projects, some of which have already company organization in order to take advantage of the become sizeable in their own right. These projects are all growth momentum in the new economies while regaining conceived and managed locally by Danone subsidiaries in maneuvering room in Europe, which remains a major partnership with Non-Governmental Organizations. region for the group. Significant changes are under way to They all have a direct relationship with Danone’s economic enable Danone to “reinvent” itself in response to this new ecosystem. They include, for example, the development of global environment. a high-quality milk supply chain with small producers in Ukraine, Egypt, Brazil and China, the recycling of plastic bottles in Indonesia and Mexico, and local distribution in several countries that creates numerous jobs and helps market products to new customer bases. 4 Danone Sustainability Report 2012 These projects are breaking new ground. They are Upstream from its processing activity, Danone is conscious sustainable because they are connected to Danone’s of the strategic role played by agriculture both now and in economic activity and bring economic value to the the future and of the challenges involved in securing its company which finances them (supplying milk or the raw agricultural raw materials. The sustainable agriculture materials used to manufacture bottles, sales development). project launched in 2012 will play an increasingly central They are also sustainable because they create considerable role in the group’s strategy. The idea is to promote social and environmental value (improving the income and sustainable agricultural models based on their economic social condition of milk producers, waste-pickers and viability and agricultural practices that ensure food quality, salesmen, as well as their families while making a positive health and taste while respecting soil and plant quality, the environmental impact). water cycle or animal well-being. In the environmental area, Danone continued its efforts Here and in other areas, the compass of the dual economic despite a generally unfavorable international context and in and social project will enable Danone to stay the course 2012 achieved the ambitious goals set in 2008, namely to pragmatically so as to continue making progress while reduce the group’s greenhouse gas emissions by 30% taking into account the diversity of situations. worldwide. Certain Danone brands such as Evian have achieved reductions that exceed 40% and are striving to Franck Riboud achieve carbon neutrality thanks to the innovative Chairman and Chief Executive Officer measures of the Livelihoods Fund. This fund was launched by Danone at end-2011 and has now been joined by other large corporations. Here again, this carbon reduction target was achieved by striving for the right combination of productivity gains and environmental impact. Energy efficiency and innovation in logistics and packaging materials must serve our two-fold objective of being competitive and transforming our production methods. Danone Sustainability Report 2012 5 STRATEGY KEY SOCIAL TOPICS NUTRITION AND health issues 7 SOCIAL ISSUES 10 ENVIRONMENTAL ISSUES 12 6 Danone Sustainability Report 2012 Nutrition and health issues At the start of the 21st century, two major health issues loom worldwide : The first challenge is the Non-Communicable Diseases (NCDs) such as cardiovascular diseases, cancers, diabetes and chronic lung diseases. In a 2011 policy declaration, the UN highlighted the growing prevalence of NCDs in developing countries and described these diseases as a major obstacle to development. Today 1.4 billion adults and more than 40 million children under the age of five are overweight, and 2.8 million people die of it each year. Fully 65% of the global population lives in countries where obesity kills more people than malnutrition. According to current projections, the proportion of deaths from NCDs will increase over the next 20 years (with 55 million expected in 2030), while a parallel drop in annual fatalities due to infectious diseases is expected. This NCD epidemic has consequences not only on mortality rates, but also on local economies. At low incomes, the high cost of treatment for a chronic NCD can plunge a family into poverty. The second challenge is the aging of the world’s population. The World Health Organization devoted its World Health Day, on April 7, 2012, to this topic, describing it as “one of the most important transformations of the society”. Around the world, as countries develop, their infant mortality rates drop, birth rates recede and life expectancy rises, all of which leads to population aging. This demographic transition first occurred in the most developed countries, and is now underway in midand low-income countries. Within five years, for the first time in the history of humanity, there will be more people over age 65 than under age five. In 2050 they will outnumber the population under age 14, and 80% of the elderly will live in midor lowincome countries. However, although people are living longer, the length of their lives spent in good health is not increasing in the same proportions. The 2010 Global Burden of Disease study of 187 countries shows that for one year of added life expectancy, only 0.8 years of life in good health is gained. The researchers conclude that disability will become a growing burden for healthcare systems around the world, as more and more people are living longer and being affected by more diseases. Healthcare systems in the most developed countries are already struggling, with rising expenditures (medical progress, increased chronic disease, aging population), and uncertain resources (recurring unemployment, uncertainty regarding growth rates). Danone Sustainability Report 2012 7 KEY SOCIAL TOPICS Nutrition and health issues In the emerging countries, and in particular the BRICS (Brazil, Russia, India, China and South Africa), social welfare protection is expanding rapidly. The rate of healthcare coverage of the Chinese population rose from 24% to 94% from 2005 to 2010. However, while everyone needs healthcare coverage, healthcare systems based on a curative approach are not sustainable in the long term. Prevention is therefore a crucial issue, including prevention of NonCommunicable Diseases on the one hand, and creation and maintenance of a lifelong health approach on the other, to support successful aging. The quality of daily diet is key to addressing these two challenges of preventing NCDs and ensuring successful aging. All the science confirms that a varied and balanced diet and regular physical exercise are factors that contribute to good health and preventing chronic diseases. On the other hand, poor diet along with a sedentary lifestyle can contribute to an increased risk of certain conditions including diabetes, osteoporosis, hypertension, etc. Scientific progress continues to confirm that individual dietary needs are very specific and vary by age (babies, children, teenagers, adults, elderly), gender, and physical condition (pregnancy, metabolic deficiency, chronic disease, aging, etc.). Paying close attention to nutrition can help ensure optimal growth and health, prevent diseases, and even improve the efficacy of certain therapeutic treatments. In particular, there is more and more evidence to show that early nutritional input (the first 1,000 days of life including pregnancy and the first two years) is a major determinant of future health, and that breastfeeding exclusively for the first six months of a baby’s life provides optimal nutritional benefit. With the urbanization that accompanies economic development, people no longer have direct access to the basic foodstuffs that they once produced for themselves. For food, they must rely on others to process these commodities for them and make them available. Today the food industry is often accused of being part of the problem. The goal for food companies is therefore to offer solutions, and be recognized for this positive role. They will need to mobilize their Research and Development resources to develop appropriate solutions addressing national health issues while respecting local preferences, and devote a large share of their communication and advertising efforts to shifting consumer preferences towards healthier products. If they are not responsible, self-disciplined and proactive in this area, they risk being subject to restrictive regulatory measures dictated by healthcare authorities. 8 Danone Sustainability Report 2012 The ability of the major food industry players to apply a responsible approach and address the dual concerns of malnutrition and diet-related obesity/chronic disease was assessed in detail for the first time in 2012 with the publication of a new rating index, ATNI (Access to Nutrition Index) designed by the NGOs GAIN (Global Alliance for Improved Nutrition) and Wellcome Trust, with the financial support of the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation. Food companies’ long-term performance will depend to a large extent on how well they use their resources, and their ability to demonstrate to stakeholders that their actions are consistent overall with public health priorities. Sources • United Nations (UN): Policy declaration of the High Level Meeting of the General Assembly on the Prevention and Control of Non-communicable Diseases – September 2011 • World Health Organization (WHO) World Health Statistics 2012 http://apps.who.int/iris/bitstream/10665/44844/1/9789241564441_eng.pdf/ Chronic diseases: Primary references: Obesity and overweight, document of May 2012: http://www.who.int/mediacentre/factsheets/fs311/en/index.html World Health Day 2012 “Aging and health” http://www.who.int/world-health-day/2012/en/index.html http://whqlibdoc.who.int/hq/2012/WHO_DCO_WHD_2012.1_eng.pdf 2008-2013 Action plan for the global strategy for the prevention and control of non-communicable diseases, WHO, 2009: http://whqlibdoc.who.int/publications/2009/9789241597418_eng.pdf • Global Burden of Disease Study 2010: http://www.thelancet.com/themed/global-burden-of-disease • Centre d’Analyse Stratégique, Memo from “The challenges of social protection in the BRICS and beyond,” November 2012: http://www.strategie.gouv.fr Danone Sustainability Report 2012 9 KEY SOCIAL TOPICS SOCIAL issues For a group such as Danone, the coexistence of two very different macroeconomic environments in the countries where it operates – mature and emerging countries – constitutes a real challenge. In the so-called “mature” countries, demographic change is resulting in an aging population and a shrinking labor force (which has dropped to 68% of total population in Europe, according to INSEE data), and in the cohabitation of two or even three generations at work for the first time ever. In the emerging countries, the need for skills development, in particular in countries where the education system is not able to produce the necessary talents, and competition between Western companies to attract potentials, requires policies to attract and develop skills. Major international groups must therefore address challenges in three areas: • ensure a properly functioning working community in which several generations work side by side : reflect on developing and properly utilizing senior workers’ skills, on organizational approaches that promote discussion and cooperation; • attract and develop talents in high growth countries by partnering with local stakeholders (universities, training institutions), acquiring appropriate internal systems and developing their employer brand; • foster continuous development for all in an evolving environment: one study referenced by the OECD(1), for example, indicates a shortage of some 1.5 million managers in the United States who are able to seize investment opportunities related to digital data. Thinking about new ways to learn and share knowledge and information is a key issue. The lasting recessionary economic environment in Europe also has consequences for inequality and households’ standard of living. In the OECD countries, more than one in three job seekers had been unemployed for at least twelve months in 2012. The OECD’s composite leading indicators, designed to anticipate turning points in economic activity relative to trend, continue to show weak growth prospects for several major economies (Japan, Germany, France, India, Russia, etc.), while signs of stabilization are emerging in Canada, China and the United States. The employment situation is leading to growing socio-economic inequality: over the past five years, income inequality has been on the rise in two-thirds of OECD countries. This correlates largely to changes in wages, which account for 75% of working households’ income. (1) Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development 10 Danone Sustainability Report 2012 Beyond their immediate impact in terms of households’ available income, rising inequalities can have major consequences for living conditions, in particular in a context where government intervention in the area of social protection (access to healthcare and co-payments, welfare, pensions, etc.) and wealth redistribution are subject to considerable budgetary constraints. This raises the question of companies’ role in providing social welfare insurance for their employees and, more generally, redistributing created wealth. These issues must be addressed from an international angle, at a time when demands in the area of labor law and working conditions are more and more insistent in certain emerging countries (such as China). For companies, these changes are all challenges that require them to redefine certain facets of their relationships with their employees and their ecosystem (including skills development and transfer, relations between generations at work, redistribution of wealth, and protection from life’s hazards). Danone Sustainability Report 2012 11 KEY SOCIAL TOPICS Environmental ISSUES By 2050, the world’s population will have reached 9 billion people, with consumption patterns that are evolving significantly. Food needs and increasing pressure on natural resources will increase. This trend is already having multiple effects : pollution and loss of soils, pollution of streams and groundwater, greenhouse gas emissions, rising waste production and loss of biodiversity. While agriculture is a vital necessity for people, it is responsible for nearly 25% of greenhouse gases, 70% of water consumption and 40% of groundwater pollution. Loss of biodiversity could itself lead to reduced agricultural production (estimated 25% impact by 2050), threatening the planet’s food security. Agriculture needs to reinvent itself to rise to these challenges. One will have to produce more with fewer inputs on a smaller cultivated area, while also significantly improving the impacts of agricultural practices on water and soil. Livestock farming is particularly criticized as being responsible for 18% of greenhouse gas emissions and 37% of soil degradation alone. This creates two risks : a risk of increased tax pressure, and a risk of reduced demand for animalbased product categories. Agri-food companies are facing the dilemma of how to meet the needs of an ever greater number of consumers, on the one hand, and limit the environmental impact of their activities on the other. Their stakeholders’ expectations, for now, are mainly focused on reducing the impact of industrial production and precisely measuring these reductions (ISO certification, carbon footprint measurements, reduced water and energy consumption, contributions to eliminating waste). Managing the impacts arising from packaging requires reduced use of materials upstream, improved collection and recycling, and transitioning to packaging made of renewable biomass (not in competition with food), rather than fossil materials. Pressures on agricultural raw materials supply are strong (increased price volatility, new competitors for land such as biofuels, climate impact, biodiversity loss). This supply context is transforming society to push for improvements in strategy even further upstream. The global economy is transitioning from a period of abundance to a period of resource scarcity, which will ultimately weight down on costs. 12 Danone Sustainability Report 2012 For their part, consumers are voicing higher expectations of agriculture that combines security, nutrition and health along with environmental protection and respect for natural cycles, and this will become a factor of brand competitiveness in the future. To meet these expectations, regulatory changes and progress in research are pushing towards better awareness of the environment and health concerns (precision agriculture, pesticides effective at low doses, alternative methods for fighting off pests and disease, more efficient use of water and soil, etc.). Lastly, some major players in global distribution are gradually beginning to promote sustainable development and will progressively choose to work with suppliers who respect the environment (Sustainability Consortium Index). These major environmental and food security challenges are core concerns for Danone. Preserving our resources and sustainably managing strategic raw materials (in particular water and milk) are the foundation of the company’s sustainable model within its ecosystem and alongside key stakeholders. Danone Sustainability Report 2012 13 STRATEGY HIGHLIGHTS STRATEGY 2012 HEALTH 15 FOR ALL 22 PEOPLE 28 NATURE 34 14 Danone Sustainability Report 2012 HEALTH Given the global public health environment and stakeholders’ high expectations from the food industry (see “Issues” chapter, page 7), the Danone’s mission is more relevant than ever: “Bring health through food to as many people as possible.” This mission is a strong commitment that is expressed in concrete actions, described in the Food, Nutrition and Health Charter, and implemented every day by Danone teams around the world. In 2012, Danone consolidated its strategy around four key aims: • a portfolio of products in wholesome categories; • developing pertinent solutions based on detailed understanding of local situations; • positioning its products as “healthier alternatives” for better nutrition; • assessing the impact of its products on diet and on consumer health. Danone focuses on products in wholesome categories Over the years, Danone has redesigned the contours of its product portfolio to concentrate on: • firstly, fresh dairy products and mineral waters that are part of a daily diet, as defined by public health recommendations; • secondly, baby nutrition and medical nutrition products with high nutritional value that address specific needs. Not only does Danone contribute in this way to consumer health from birth to the final days of life, but the unique nature of this product portfolio gives Danone a positioning that marks a difference among food industry players. Danone thus contributes to promoting healthy eating through its product 84% categories. In 2012, 84% of Danone’s sales correspond to essential products (fresh dairy products containing at least 50% of milk, water, baby nutrition, medical of Danone sales nutrition). 66% of the sales concern products for daily consumption – fresh = dairy products and baby nutrition products compliant with Danone nutrition essential products standards, waters and sugar-free drinks, medical nutrition (1). (1) Figures from the 2012 Scorecard for a scope of 46 subsidiaries in the four divisions. Danone Sustainability Report 2012 15 HIGHLIGHTS STRATEGY 2012 HEALTH Danone develops pertinent solutions based on detailed understanding of local situations Danone also cultivates strong connections with local market ecosystems and seeks to thoroughly understand the health and nutrition situation and public health issues of the countries in which it operates, so as to propose products that are appropriate to these contexts. In 2012, Danone continued and expanded the program launched in Algeria in 2011 to study food styles. Three studies were completed in France, India and Indonesia in 2012. The studies’ conclusions enable Danone to propose product offers consistent with these countries’ food culture and heritage. Danone positions its products as “healthier alternatives” Superior gustatory quality will always be a primary element in product development. Nutritional superiority is another key feature of Danone’s strategy: if the Danone product replaces another daily consumption product, it is important to ensure that the resulting change is positive for the consumer. Therefore, in 2012, the group’s Research and Development department developed the notion of nutritional superiority in two ways: by defining an innovative approach to identifying what food(s) a Danone product might be replacing for consumers, and by developing a comparison method based on nutrient density. This program will be rolled out in pilot subsidiaries in the Fresh dairy products and Waters divisions in 2013. Danone also continues to pursue its nutrition continuous improvement program. Overall in 2012, 26% of sales corresponded to products that underwent nutritional improvements from 2010 to 2012 (2). Danone seeks to have a positive impact on diet by promoting categories of products that are recognized as wholesome This approach gained speed in 2012 in the Fresh dairy products division with: • the creation of a knowledge base on yogurt and its nutrition properties; • the definition of scientific methodologies for the subsidiaries to identify yogurt’s specific contribution to nutritional needs and balanced diet in each country; • the organization of 22 strategic meetings in the main subsidiaries to define a research and stakeholder communication plan. (2) Figures from the 2012 Scorecard for a scope of 46 subsidiaries in the four divisions. 16 Danone Sustainability Report 2012 School-based education programs for children were rolled out in the Waters division in Latin America in 2012, based on the successful experience in Poland the previous year (see the 2011 Sustainable Development Report, page 17); such programs were introduced in Argentina, Mexico and Uruguay. Upstream of these achievements, at the research level, a large number of nutri-economics initiatives were implemented in 2012. Following the pioneering role of Danone’s Research and Development in launching this new discipline, which seeks to assess the impact of food on public health, a foundational article on the field’s defining characteristics was published(3). Under the aegis of the Danone International Institute, an in-depth analysis of the literature was completed in partnership with the University of Manitoba(4) and the conclusions of a symposium titled “Nutrition economics – food as an ally of public health” were reported(5). The results of several research projects were also published in prestigious international scientific journals. These studies show that nutrition, by helping to prevent certain diseases, can reduce healthcare spending: • using infant formula containing probiotics (Immunofortis®) reduces certain allergies and their long-term consequences (6); • adequate hydration contributes to preventing the formation of kidney stones (7,8); • regular consumption of dairy products can significantly reduce bone fractures due to osteoporosis and the related costs (9). In addition, a conference and three major events were held in various countries in 2012. With its products, and thanks to nutrition economics expertise as yet unparalleled in the food industry, Danone contributes to better health for all. (3) I. Lenoir-Wijnkoop, M. J. C. Nuijten, I. Gutiérrez-Ibarluzea, et al. Workshop Report: concepts and methods in the economics of nutrition – gateways to better economic evaluation of nutrition interventions. British Journal of Nutrition 2012; 108:1714–1720 (4) C.L. Gyles, I. Lenoir-Wijnkoop, J.G. Carlberg, et al. Health economics and nutrition: a review of published evidence. Nutrition Reviews 2012; 70:693-708 (5) I. Lenoir-Wijnkoop, P. J. Jones, R. Uauy, et al. Nutrition economics – food as an ally of public health. British Journal of Nutrition; doi:10.1017/S0007114512005107 (6) I. Lenoir-Wijnkoop, W. M. C. van Aalderen, G. Boehm, et al. Cost-effectiveness model for a specific mixture of prebiotics in The Netherlands. Eur J Health Economics 2012; 13:101-10 (7) Y. Lotan , I. Buendia Jiménez, I. Lenoir-Wijnkoop, et al. Primary prevention of nephrolithiasis is cost-effective for a national healthcare system. BJU International 2012; 110: E1060-7. (8) Y. Lotan, I. Buendia Jiménez, I. Lenoir-Wijnkoop, et al. Increased Water Intake as a Prevention Strategy for Recurrent Urolithiasis: Major Impact of Compliance on Cost-Effectiveness. The Journal of Urology 2013; Volume 189:935–939 (9) F. J. B. Lötters, I. Lenoir-Wijnkoop, P. Fardellone, et al. Dairy foods and osteoporosis: an example of assessing the health-economic impact of food products. Osteoporosis International 2013; 24:139-150 Danone Sustainability Report 2012 17 HIGHLIGHTS STRATEGY 2012 HEALTH Among the other highlights of 2012, continued efforts made by Danone in support of responsible communication should be mentioned. In the Baby nutrition division, Danone significantly stepped up its efforts regarding the requirements of WHO Code (10), in particular via the creation of internal management documents implementing the Code’s principles, and by extending the practice of regular audits by independent auditors to all subsidiaries. Danone also participated with the other European Pledge member companies in defining shared nutrition criteria(11) to identify products compatible with advertising to children. These criteria will replace those previously individually defined by each company, starting in 2015. Lastly, in continuation of its approach of working closely with its stakeholders, Danone launched two major scientific partnerships in 2012 In the framework of its Research and Development activity, Danone: • takes part with eleven other industrial and academic partners in the European Metacardis consortium, a large-scale project that began in November 2012 with the goal of improving understanding and treatment of conditions such as obesity, diabetes and cardiovascular diseases. The project will run for five years at a total cost of 12 million euros, financed in part by the 7th European N°1 of the Union framework program; • initiated a new partnership with the European Association for the Study of Access To Obesity (EASO), which is active in 30 countries. This partnership includes, Nutrition among other things, the creation of a joint Danone-EASO work group on Index healthy hydration, and a recurring joint presence at the European Congress on Obesity on the topic of hydration and the prevention of obesity. At the same time, the partnership with the International Society of Nephrology (ISN) continues, with support once again in 2012 for World Kidney Day (12), devoted to the prevention of kidney diseases, as well as the co-production of an educational film on the golden rules for good kidney health. Last key fact in 2012, Danone was ranked leader of the first ATNI index (Access To Nutrition Index), created jointly by GAIN (Global Alliance for Improved Nutrition), the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation and the Wellcome Trust. This index aims to assess every two years the major food companies on their policies, practices and performance on nutrition. This recognition shows the relevance of the Danone’s strategy to the health and nutrition issues. (10) www.who.int/nutrition/publications/infantfeeding/9241541601/en/ (11) www.eu-pledge.eu/sites/eu-pledge.eu/files/releases/EU_Pledge_Nutrition_White_Paper_Nov_2012.pdf (12) www.worldkidneyday.org 18 Danone Sustainability Report 2012 A quality system that places the consumer at the heart of Danone’s concerns Food safety is a fundamental Public Health concern. It is also crucial for maintaining the profitability of a group based on consumer confidence and sustainable development. Danone has created a specific “product governance” system to ensure the quality and safety of its products. This system was designed to place consumers at the center of considerations and to contribute sustainably to the performance of the group. In 2012, Danone continued to implement its Quality vision in four key areas: Food safety and risk assessment The group must ensure that all operations worldwide are aligned to a common food safety standard that is recognized by authorities, consumers and retailers. Danone has chosen FSSC 22000 as the international standard aligned with its food safety requirements. Over the past two years, the group has consolidated and improved its risk assessment procedures. A checklist called IGEA has been drafted that includes all ISO/TS 22002-1 (PAS 220) requirements as well as Danone’s specific requirements. This checklist can be used for the Pre-Requisite Programs (PRP) that are part of certification audits, and also to assess compliance with Danonespecific best hygiene practices and score the level of compliance with the Danone global PRP standard. Five certification bodies have been selected and their auditors trained to align food safety certifications worldwide (including assessment of compliance with Danone’s specific requirements), by ensuring that they use the IGEA checklist and perform the assessment and scoring according to Danone’s expectations. Danone Sustainability Report 2012 19 HIGHLIGHTS STRATEGY 2012 HEALTH In addition, to guarantee healthy and safe products for its consumers, Danone evaluates and manages potential and actual risks via the Danone Food Safety Center (DFSC) (for more detail, see page 167 of this report, indicator PR1). Food safety is a shared responsibility. It requires the cooperation of all stakeholders involved in the food chain. Food safety reaches beyond the strict framework of the group; it is a responsibility shared by governments, regulatory bodies and food-related companies as well as the media, NGOs and consumers. In this framework, Danone has been an active member in recent years of such international organizations as the Global Food Safety Initiative (GFSI). The GFSI – whose mission could be summarized as “safe food for consumers everywhere” – is one of the major organizations associating all players in the international agri-food industry to support ongoing improvement of food safety and strengthen consumer confidence throughout the world. The GFSI has succeeded in building bridges between the public and private sectors, and works with governments and other organizations around the world to manage food safety threats more effectively with a view to improving Public Health. Robust Quality system throughout the product lifecycle The system is based on a set of quality criteria (Danone Operating Models, or DOMs) that define what must be done to ensure safe products that comply with Danone specifications at every stage of the distribution chain, from product design to consumption, everywhere in the world and all the time. These quality criteria were revised in 2012, with in particular the redefinition of 4 levels of compliance. A risk and opportunity assessment was carried out for this purpose, to prioritize resources, support business growth and ensure product safety, compliance and superior quality. Food safety indicators are described in the section on the PR1 indicator (page 167 of this report), concerning the lifecycle stages in which the impact of products and services on health and safety are assessed with a view to their improvement. 20 Danone Sustainability Report 2012 Consumer confidence Consumer loyalty is supported by effective market feedback management. Quality systems direct attention to information and process them at each phase of the product lifecycle, to provide an appropriate response and deliver consumer satisfaction. The development and expansion of two projects in this area continued in 2012: • the information system for improved consumer feedback management continued to be expanded geographically; it is now used in more than 90 subsidiaries around the world, enabling harmonization and thus discussion and benchmark between countries; • the project for auditing on-shelf products, following its pilot phase, was integrated into daily activities and is implemented in more than 60% of subsidiaries in the Fresh dairy products and Waters divisions. The project’s importance lies in the analysis of consumer experience at the time they make the decision to buy, when the totality of their expectations are met (product compliance, as well as availability, presentation and position on the shelf relative to the competition). Development of Danone employees Danone emphasizes the key role played by employees in effectively implementing the Quality Policy; the group ensures that employees have exemplary business expertise, culture and behavior. The “Quality Road Book”, a reference document containing advice on career management in the quality function and beyond, with a business orientation, was distributed to the Quality community in 2012. A half-day dedicated to human resources was included in quality training sessions to help employees understand and implement this advice. In response to Danone’s geographic expansion, the group has begun decentralizing its training sessions to reach as many people as possible, to create closer connections within the Quality community by strengthening the quality culture and employee empowerment. Danone Sustainability Report 2012 21 HIGHLIGHTS STRATEGY 2012 FOR ALL Danone’s strategy to improve access to its products continued in 2012. New consumers were gained, both in countries where the group was already present and in new regions, as Danone continued to adapt its offer and business models to accomplish its mission of “bringing health through food to as many people as possible”. 845 Continuing the group’s geographic expansion and reaching new consumers Since 2008, the number of Danone consumers has risen by 50%, from 600 million to 845 million estimated consumers in 2012. million Danone continued its geographic expansion begun 15 years earlier, into additional new regions ; emerging countries accounted for 53% of net sales in 2012 (compared with 17% in 1996). Danone consumers This growth was driven by geographic expansion in the six key countries known as MICRUBs (Mexico, Indonesia, China, Russia, USA, Brazil), which accounted for more than 40% of Danone’s total sales in 2012 and generated around two thirds of net sales growth. Danone also began developing in new countries. In particular, the group strengthened its presence in India with the acquisition of the Wockhardt group’s baby nutrition and medical nutrition activities. To build its growth potential over the long term, Danone is experimenting with small-scale models in new markets in certain Asian countries and in Africa, in response to recent economic and socio-demographic development, including the appearance of a middle class and of mid-sized cities (with populations of more than one million). In Africa, relying on experience gained in recent years in the Maghreb region in particular, the group is developing positions in new markets (Ivory Coast, Cameroon, Kenya, etc) through nutritional offers adapted to local conditions and in compliance with the World Health Organization Code. Consumer access to products is a major issue for Danone, for which it seeks to identify the most innovative distribution circuits. As a result, 25 subsidiaries deployed the Route To Market methodology in 2012 (see page 28 of the 2011 Sustainability Report) to consolidate physical availability of products in certain regions, including through innovative distribution models (micro-distribution, door-to-door, etc.). 22 Danone Sustainability Report 2012 Some examples are: • in China, the Waters division subsidiary increased coverage of large cities from 20 in 2009 to nearly 200 in 2012. This strong expansion of the Route To Market project is one key factor for successful growth, bringing the Mizone brand to millions of new consumers and doubling market share compared with 2010; • in Brazil, the Route To Market project in the Nordeste region – the country’s second most populous region, but with the weakest consumption of fresh dairy products – enabled Danone to gain 25 penetration points (% of consumers reached) in households thanks to the addition of 24,000 new stores in 5 years. New distribution models, such as door-to-door, very relevant to this region, have also been implemented. The Danone brand became the market share leader in this region in 2012 for the first time in its history; • in Egypt, an innovative Route To Market project in rural regions led to the addition of 500,000 new consumers for the Fresh Dairy Products category in two years. This positive model combines development of the group’s business and the economic and social development of the involved regions; • in Turkey, the Baby nutrition division also introduced a new Route To Market project for more extensive coverage of the territory by its sales agents, along with more intensive cooperation with its distributors, resulting in sales growth of 40%. Creating new and continuously evolving business models For the past 5 years, Danone has been testing business models in an effort to truly change the way it generates growth to better address the “For all” dimension of its mission. Among these different experiments, Danone was a pioneer in social business with the 2007 creation of the danone.communities fund (see the 2011 Sustainability Report, pages 32-35), spearheaded by the Grameen Danone Food Ltd project in Bangladesh. In 2012, the group began a phase of consolidation of the 10 existing danone.communities projects (see details in the following pages). Danone Sustainability Report 2012 23 HIGHLIGHTS STRATEGY 2012 FOR ALL Danone has carried out other experiments, notably the “BOP” (Base of the Pyramid) business creation project in India. Launched in 2011, this project was based on three-pronged innovation involving the creation of a product offer adapted to local tastes, industrial processes and investments, and distribution circuits. In 2012, Danone determined that two elements of the model needed improvement: managing the capillarity of distribution networks, and succeeding in introducing new products in terms of consumer habits and consumption times. These two parameters, crucial to the success of the project, were entirely reworked to better align with local cultural specificities. The offer was repositioned in 2012, with the Fundooz brand recentered around a narrower category of consumers and a smaller territory. It is this type of experiments involving complex local issues that allow Danone to continue to gain expertise in new countries where the group’s ambition is to develop in order to ensure its long-term growth and the success of its mission. Danone has inventoried the key learnings to be drawn from the BOP project in India, namely: the importance of thoroughly understanding local food culture and eating habits to better integrate these into the development process; the correct target population size (cities, rural areas) in an emerging country; controlling distribution circuits and costs and the various intermediaries to reach the target economically; and the importance of the management and education model for enhancing the product’s image and use. These lessons have been shared and are already used in other projects, in particular the micro-distribution projects conducted as part of the Danone Ecosystem Fund. The Research and Development center opened in India in 2012 also concentrates expertise used for all new Danone projects in this country. The center’s very close connection to the local communities, consumers and/or non-governmental organizations allows these groups’ input to be integrated into product definition and recipes at an earlier phase, and multiplies interactions and opportunities in a co-development approach. In the end, results are achieved more rapidly and solutions are more relevant than with a traditional approach. 24 Danone Sustainability Report 2012 danone.communities: from consolidation to shared knowledge danone.communities is a social business incubator with the mission of promoting, supporting and financing social businesses that seek to respond to issues of malnutrition, access to drinking water and poverty. Today, danone.communities provides technical and financial support to 10 projects, including 8 in which the FCPR (venture capital fund) has already invested, and 2 in the incubation stage. From Mexico to India, via Senegal, danone.communities is creating change that has already benefitted more than a million people. The ten projects can be divided into two categories: • historical projects which have been developed for more than 3 years, whether or not they were created with the support of danone.communities. These are Grameen Danone Foods Ltd (Bangladesh), La Laiterie du Berger (Senegal), Naandi Community Water Services (India), 1001 Fountains (Cambodia) and JITA Bangladesh (Bangladesh), created by the NGO Care Bangladesh in 2004, and the last project to have received an investment from the fund. • start-up projects, recently created (within the past 3 years), or still in incubation phase. These danone.communities projects include El Alberto (Mexico), Nutrigo (China), Isomir (France), Malin (France) and Lemateki (Senegal), the last two still being in incubation. The group decided to invest in three projects in 2012 alongside the danone.communities fund (Grameen Danone Foods Limited in Bangladesh, Laiterie du Berger in Senegal and NutriGo in China) to ensure these projects’ viability and longevity. 10 projects between consolidation and incubation In 2012 danone.communities focused a large portion of its efforts on consolidating its 5 historical projects around 3 priorities: • social impact; • model’s economic sustainability; • organization. Danone Sustainability Report 2012 25 HIGHLIGHTS STRATEGY 2012 FOR ALL These efforts produced positive signs of development aligned with the consolidation strategy. For example: • Grameen Danone Foods Ltd (Bangladesh) is on a growth path again, with an 18% increase in volumes compared to the previous year; • in Senegal, the results of La Laiterie du Berger project demonstrate a financial balance (break even) during three consecutive months (september, october, november) ; • for the 1001 Fountains project (Cambodia), the threshold of 60 water purification stations installed in the same region was crossed, and the project team is planning to launch the approach in another region of the country. 1001 Fontaines aims to break even by May 2013; • lastly, JITA Bangladesh, the 8th project in which the fund invested, is making its first forays as a social business after several years of incubation within the NGO Care. Financial break-even is planned for the end of 2014. Nevertheless, the projects’ long-term survival is not yet assured. According to danone.communities, sustainable success will require greater autonomy on the part of local project teams, which places learning, skills acquisition and empowerment at the heart of priorities. While consolidating its historical projects, danone.communities is also supporting five additional projects, two of which are still incubating (Lemateki in Senegal and the Malin program in France). These recent projects, which operate as start-ups, have made significant progress. For example, El Alberto (Mexico), launched at the end of 2011, already broke even financially for its first year of operation. Nutrigo in China, also launched at the end of 2011 in several villages in the Enshi region, plans to extend its sites to a second region of the country, in Fuyang. These rapid and positive results reflect a learning curve that began with the historical projects and can now be applied by those just starting out. Learnings shared with the community To leverage this learning curve and its strong network of partners, danone.communities began a process of learnings sharing in 2012. The Global Communities Meeting workshops held during the day of the Annual Meeting on May 15, 2012 are the key feature of this new phase. More than 250 international experts (researchers, entrepreneurs, project managers, etc) took part in the workshops to examine social business in more depth, through topics including micro-distribution, nutrition, access to water, social impact measurement and financing. 26 Danone Sustainability Report 2012 New avenues to explore and pursue were defined in the workshops, opening up fresh areas for cooperation and co-development in support of social business, to increase its impact in emerging and developed countries. The workshop reports are available to all at the danone.communities website (www.danonecommunities.com/node/1199#node-1199). Additionally, no fewer than 21 events dedicated to promoting social business were organized in 2012, most by danone.communities partners under the Global Communities Meeting label. Strengthened commitment by “Danoners” (employees) The commitment of Danone’s employees to support the development of social businesses is at the heart of the danone.communities project. More than 280 employees have taken part directly in those projects, most frequently through part-time support missions in areas as varied as research and development, marketing and communication, human resources, finance, sales and distribution, and production. The proportion of Danoners who have invested in the fund continued to rise in 2012, to 15.5% of total investments, representing a total of 10.5 million euros since 2007. 2013-2014: Autonomous projects Based on the lessons learned from these five years of development, danone.communities plans to introduce an organizational change in 2013 towards a more decentralized form of both project management and community support. This initiative aims to foster the projects’ autonomy to strengthen them further. Community involvement is also being revised from this perspective, and in the next few months, the focus will be on providing both the legacy projects and the start-ups the tools for managing their local communities to involve agents at a more local level. In a word, 2013 will be the year of increased local empowerment. Find the latest danone.communities news at : www.danonecommunities.com Danone Sustainability Report 2012 27 HIGHLIGHTS STRATEGY 2012 PEOPLE Employee and team development as a foundation for rowth Investing in the teams’ development worldwide Danone views skills development as a necessary condition for growth. The aim is both to transmit knowledge and expertise, and for all Danone’s employees to share a common culture. Skills development and leadership are also factors for which the group stands out, and a way of attracting and developing quality resources on a large scale in fast growing countries. Access to training has been expanding for several years, and continued to increase in 2012: 100% of employees received training in 2012 (compared with 98.8% in 2011 on a like-for-like basis). From 2008 to 2012, the average number of training hours per employee rose from 24 hours per year to 31 hours per year, a nearly 30% increase. In China for example, following the 2011 creation of Danone China University, 2,185 people received training in 2012 from 110 internal trainers. The Danone Leadership College program was introduced in 2008 to promote a specific Danone leadership culture and deeply transform attitudes. As of December 31, 2012, 50,000 Danone employees, including 15,000 Team Leaders, had been supported in this transformation process, thanks to 460 internal trainers. Fully 81% of employees felt that training and thinking 81% about their individual and shared attitudes had a positive impact on the way they work. After 4 years in place, the goal is for this leadership culture to become an even more prevalent daily benchmark for all Danone employees, and a means of achieving outstanding operational performances. 15 pilot plants (of which 3 in Asia) were identified to test 14 modules aimed at establishing these attitudes of employees among operators in their daily work situations. The development of this Danone recognize the positive leadership culture is also an integral part of Human Resources management aspect of Danone processes. Leadership College A new “Learning” strategy was defined in 2012 to provide a long-term foundation for Danone’s training ambitions. It aims to create the right conditions for developing resources in high-growth regions, and for employees to learn even more, more efficiently, across many different situations. 28 Danone Sustainability Report 2012 The “Campus 2.0” project initiated at the end of 2012 supports learning communities and e-learning (where the best experts on a given topic make their knowledge available to others). The “Danone Campus”, an original corporate university format that combines training, networking and exploration of general interest topics such as “social innovation and social business” continued in 2012: 13 campus were organized in Europe (France, Czech Republic, Russia), Asia (China, Malaysia, Indonesia, Japan) and the Americas (Mexico, Argentina), with the participation of 3,300 people. The development of the potentials is also made through short term missions. In South America, the Jaguar program, launched in 2009 in the Fresh dairy products division, aims to accelerate the development of the potential of young people and to reinforce sharing between South American subsidiaries. It is based on six months to a year missions, allowing a subsidiary’s employee to take part in an another subsidiary’s project. 12 missions have been implemented in 2012, in 6 countries (Argentina, Brazil, Mexico, Chili, Uruguay and Colombia). More than the impact on the turnover, this program allowed to 80% of the young employees who participated to benefit from a change of position at the end of their international mission. Diversity as a source of well-being and performance at work Danone views diversity as a source of innovation and strength for the group. Among the priority action areas are gender equality, diversity of generations, cultures and nationalities, and diversity of academic backgrounds. To improve gender equality, Danone addresses issues of working life (internal promotion, wages, working conditions, etc.), career and individual mindsets. As a result of this policy, the item “my subsidiary offers equal opportunities regardless of gender” in the Danone People Survey gained five points in 2011 among both female and male respondents. Key highlights in 2012 include: • an increased percentage of women at the director and executive levels, from 28% to 31% compared with 2011, and a stabilization at the manager level at 46%. Systematic analysis of equity between men and women in annual salary reviews at all classification levels confirms that there is no significant gap between men’s and women’s wages overall among managers and directors; • the introduction of measures to support work-life balance, which foster better gender diversity at work. In particular, several subsidiaries introduced pilot programs in 2012, such as telecommuting for all levels of responsibility; Danone Sustainability Report 2012 29 HIGHLIGHTS STRATEGY 2012 PEOPLE • work on individual mindsets and female leadership. The 3rd EVE seminar, created in 2009 by Danone to develop female leadership, addressed the theme “Dare to be yourself to act” for 320 participants and 15 companies; • as an extension of the EVE seminar, Danone launched the “Octave” event following the same model, with a view to foster intergenerational connections. This seminar is based on the notion that when generations “rub shoulders” it contributes to the overall performance of the company. The first Octave seminar took place in April 2012, and was attended by 120 people of all ages, from five companies; • lastly, 96 young Danone managers aged below 30, from 21 countries, were brought together in Evian for the “Gen D” program, with the goals of transmitting the Danone culture, increasing their motivation and bringing them closer to the group’s executives. Committing to HR fundamentals Developing a safety culture The WISE program launched in 2004 has been strengthening Danone’s commitment to employees’ safety at work for nearly a decade. After eight years of continuous progress (the frequency rate of accidents generating work absences dropped by nearly 60% between 2009 and 2011), the frequency rate stagnated for the first time in 2012 at 2.2. These results illustrate that safety is a constant challenge, and that efforts must be pursued in certain countries in the Fresh dairy products division and in French subsidiaries. The results also show that the development of a true safety culture is essential to maintaining the progress achieved. In this context, Danone has decided to implement initiatives that bring a safety approach to bear at multiple levels: • employees’ commitment: 70% of the group’s sites have now undergone “WISE” audits, with new guidelines for the industrial sites and stricter requirements; • operational excellence: by developing a disciplined approach to safety standards, Danone contributes to developing discipline in other areas: quality, operational efficiency, customer service, environment, etc.; 30 Danone Sustainability Report 2012 • improved health and working conditions: repetitive musculoskeletal disorders represent a growing share of accidents at all types of Danone sites. Initiatives launched in 2012 in the areas of training (movement and posture, ergonomics training for technical and engineering teams), workstation adaptations and design upstream new projects (dedicated investments, participatory proposals) aim to improve both safety and working conditions. Improving health and working conditions through effective social dialogue Social dialogue at Danone is organized around a worldwide labour relations body (Information and Consultation Committee, CIC), negotiation and monitoring of international framework agreements with the IUF (International Union of Food workers), and dynamic labour relations with trade union representatives and staff representatives in the group’s subsidiaries. As of December 31, 2012, Danone had entered into 9 agreements with the IUF, relating mainly to diversity, labour relations, health, safety, working conditions and stress. Action plans designed and implemented by the group’s subsidiaries translated them into reality in the field. For example, in application of the 2007 agreement on diversity between Danone and the IUF, subsidiaries in Poland began launching initiatives starting in 2008 to improve women’s ability to reconcile their professional and personal lives. These measures include an additional month of maternity leave, six-hour working days during the first two months after returning to work, and rooms for nursing at the workplace. As a result, Danone Fresh dairy products Poland was awarded with the “Mother at work” prize in 2011 and 2012. Regarding working conditions, the rollout of the framework agreement signed in September 2011 with the IUF on health, safety, working conditions and stress, and implemented country by country, has in particular led to greater emphasis being placed on the human consequences of change. In 2012 Danone designed a methodology for deployment of “human feasibility study” (HFS), which is an integral part of agreements signed in France on stress prevention and quality of life at work, and aims to facilitate recognition of the human impact of change projects. As a concrete expression of this approach, to provide real support for change, pilot projects were carried out in the French subsidiaries, with around sixty employees trained to implement an HFS previous to more than 20 projects. Danone Sustainability Report 2012 31 HIGHLIGHTS STRATEGY 2012 PEOPLE Danone and the IUF jointly monitor their agreements, notably with joint visits on the ground of 42 group subsidiaries between 2009 and 2012, which led to a summary report in 2012. A particular advantage of these joint visits by IUF and Danone representatives is to better explain the impact of their collaborative efforts at the local level, and to raise subsidiaries’ awareness of the issues involved in implementing their agreements. Providing quality social welfare and medical coverage for all employees: the Dan’Cares program The Dan’Cares program was introduced to achieve Danone’s dual economic and social project. It reflects the group’s desire for every employee to benefit from 27,700 quality healthcare coverage, in particular for basic medical care: hospitalization, maternity and outpatient care. The program started in 2010 with an audit in 15 countries and 56 subsidiaries; it now covers 98% of Danone’s employees (except Unimilk group companies) in 41 countries, making it possible to assess existing coverage in each of the countries and identify needed improvements. employees covered by Dan’Cares The group’s objective was to achieve coverage for 30,000 additional employees by 2013. This goal is already reached. Eight countries (China, Spain, Indonesia, Mexico, Brazil, Poland, Russia and Saudi Arabia) started implementing Dan’Cares in 2011. At the end of 2012, 27,700 employees received coverage under Dan’Cares, and coverage was improved for 8,000 others. By the end of 2013 the program aims to cover at least 13,000 additional employees. Supporting new business models – The Danone Ecosystem Fund To “bring health through food to as many people as possible”, Danone must 51,000 continuously innovate and adapt its business models. The Danone Ecosystem Fund was created in 2009 with a view to strengthen the economic and social situations of local players in Danone’s ecosystem (small farmers, suppliers and subcontractors, transport operators, distributors, regions, etc.) throughout its value chain (for more information, see indicator EC9, page 101). Structured around five action areas(1), the fund comprised 43 projects in 2012 (including twelve new projects created in 2012) involving 35 subsidiaries; they represent a jobs created or total investment of 34 million euros and aim to create or consolidate over consolidated within the 51,000 jobs. Danone Ecosystem Fund (1) The Danone Ecosystem Fund is structured around five priority action areas: supply, micro-distribution, recycling, personal services and local development. 32 Danone Sustainability Report 2012 The projects have impacts at multiple levels of the value chain: • securing supply of raw materials by supporting the dairy and fruit sectors (notably by helping small farmers and/or producers); • enhancing consumer perceptions of the value of the raw materials, through sustainable farming partnerships; • recycling (support for waste pickers working in garbage dumps); • researching services the group can offer its consumers in the areas of health through food: nutrition and health education, services to support autonomy for the elderly or child development, developed with specialized agents; • micro-distribution, by testing models adapted to new geographic circumstances and populations to address specific issues of accessibility and employability. Fostering the emergence of new business practices was a priority goal for the fund in 2012. These practices include, for example, local micro-distribution networks and the decision to assess key Danone Ecosystem Fund projects using recognized social impact measurement methods. Two projects were identified as test cases for social impact measurement, which should be implemented in 2013. The methodology for measuring economic impacts for the group is currently being defined, and will also be tested in 2013 (for more information, see indicator SO1, page 159). In 2012, to consolidate existing projects and best support the launch of new projects (twelve new projects this same year), the Danone Ecosystem Fund worked to ensure that projects are anchored into subsidiaries’ strategies, to reproduce earlier successful experiences to the extent possible, and to foster sharing and communication of best practices between teams. The development of new skills through social innovation project management is a source of wealth for Danone. Two key developments took place in 2012 with regard to the goal of increasing team professionalism: a pilot training specifically designed for the fund’s project teams was tested, and an integration program now allows new project managers to benefit from experience acquired by others in previous projects. All project management support tools are made available on the fund’s web platform. The co-creation guide in particular serves to support and develop the teams working on these projects by helping them create operating frameworks with their partners that are adapted to the projects and the goals. Danone Sustainability Report 2012 33 HIGHLIGHTS STRATEGY 2012 NATURE Danone exceeds its groundbreaking carbon footprint reduction goals announced in 2008 The spread of best practices and ambitious results achieved confirm that Nature preservation and business development do not conflict, but can operate in synergy. Danone continued its work on the priorities defined in its Nature strategy for the past 5 years: Combat climate change and reduce dependency on fossil fuels Reduce the carbon footprint Danone had set the ambitious goal in 2008 of reducing its carbon footprint by 30% over the 2008-2012 period, wherever the group holds direct responsibility (production sites, packaging and end of life, transport and storage – excluding upstream agriculture). A reduction of 35.2% was achieved between 2008 and 2012. This groundbreaking goal was largely exceeded thanks to the ongoing commitment of Danone’s teams and of the group’s partners participating in this policy. The group’s total emissions in 2012 (including upstream agriculture) are estimated at 17 million metric tons equivalent CO2. Since 2007 the group’s sales volumes have experienced strong growth of more than 35%, while its carbon emissions remained stable overall during this same period (scope of direct responsibility). 12 30 28 Volume sold (Millions of tonnes) 10 26 -35.2% -35.2% CO2 (Millions of tonnes) 24 8 22 6 20 18 4 16 14 2 12 Reduction in CO2 0 10 emissions between 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2008 and 2012 Volume of products sold Absolute volume of CO2 34 Danone Sustainability Report 2012 Reduce energy intensity and experiment with renewable energies Danone reduced its energy intensity by 3.6% in 2012, representing a cumulative change of -46.5% since 2000. After the Poços de Caldas plant in Brazil in 2011, the Baby nutrition site in Wexford, Ireland invested 3.8 million euros in a biomass boiler, for an annual savings of 9,500 metric tons of CO2 and an annual fossil fuel bill reduced by 750,000 euros. This project should also enable the development of a local FSC (Forest Stewardship Council) certified wood industry and the creation of 65 indirect jobs in the upstream segment. It was supported by the Danone Ecosystem Fund and won the award in 2012 for best Nature project, which recognizes the most innovative projects of the year within the group. The Evian brand and the Livelihoods Fund Based on its successful experience since 2008, partnering with the IUCN and the Ramsar convention on wetlands in the framework of carbon offset projects, Danone wished to involve other companies in this approach by creating the Livelihoods Fund in 2011. This fund, which today includes seven large companies in addition to Danone, invests in major natural ecosystem restoration projects. These projects contribute to combating climate change by fixing large volumes of carbon. The goal is to store seven million metric tons of carbon over 20 years, for a minimum investment of 30 million euros. Livelihoods has already invested in six projects in Africa and Asia, and contributed to the planting of more than 100 millions of trees. Consistent with its commitment, and after reducing its carbon footprint by 40% over the 2008–2012 period, the Evian brand offset its remaining emissions in 2012 by supporting several quality projects recognized by standards including Verified Carbon Standard and Gold Standard. Starting in 2013, following consultation with its stakeholders, Evian has decided to refocus its efforts on the Livelihoods Fund, whose projects are supported by the brand since 2008, by strengthening its participation over the long term. The expansion of these projects will progressively offset the Evian brand’s emissions, to achieve full emissions offset by 2020. Danone Sustainability Report 2012 35 HIGHLIGHTS STRATEGY 2012 NATURE Water: Protect water resources, particularly when scarce, and use them in harmony with local ecosystems and communities Reduce water consumption In 2012 Danone reduced its water consumption in industrial processes by 3.1%, bringing the overall reduction since 2000 to 43.1%. Protect the springs and the water supply Danone also continues to promote the protection of springs through its Ground Water Policy, which is based on holistic management of the resource in cooperation with local players: respect for natural cycles (not removing more water than can be replenished by nature) and protection of rainwater catchment areas and of their ecosystems. In 2012, the Danone Waters China subsidiary enhanced its protection initiatives at the Longmen site, relying on the expertise of the IUCN and with the support of the Danone Ecosystem Fund. In 2012, the Ramsar Convention (United Nations international convention for wetland protection), the IUCN (International Union for Conservation of Nature) and Danone launched a recognition process for “SPRING” (Sustainable Protection and Resources managING), an internal tool for managing water resources that includes physical, regulatory and community management of springs and their drainage basins, deployed since 2008 at 100% of Waters division sites. Measures to go even further Danone continued its water footprint measurement research in 2012, notably with its partner Quantis, as well as by contributing to the development of international (ISO) and European (Envifood protocol) standards. This approach has enabled the development of a water footprint evaluation methodology that takes water stress factors into account, the Water Scarcity Footprint. This tool will serve to identify at-risk zones and methods for reducing the group’s impacts across its entire value chain. 36 Danone Sustainability Report 2012 Packaging: use sustainable materials The group’s position on Forest Footprint and on Forest for paper and board packaging Conscious of the critical importance of preserving forests for the equilibrium of our planet (in particular the tropical forests in Indonesia and the Congo and Amazon basins), Danone is committed to a strategy of eliminating the deforestation impacts of its supply chain, and to a reforestation program, between now and 2020. Danone has published its position on Forest Footprint which aimed at transparently evaluating the deforestation risks associated with commodities used directly or indirectly by the group’s businesses, and proposing specific policies by ranking its actions according to associated risks and impact priorities. http://danonestaging.danweb.danet/nos-politiques/positions/nos-politiquespositions.html This ambition notably includes all paper and board packaging that might have a negative impact on forests. The commitment targets three concrete objectives: actively reduce the weight of paper and board packaging for each product, prefer the use of recycled fibers and, where this is not possible, prefer FSC certified virgin fibers. Experiment with renewable materials Three year of experimentation with plant-based plastics (sugar cane, sugar cane waste and corn) for four brands (Volvic, Actimel, Activia and Stonyfield) have allowed Danone to develop an understanding of the environmental implications (lifecycle analysis), compliance with sustainability criteria (competition with food, end of life, etc.), associated business issues and consumer perceptions. The group continues its extensive cooperation initiatives with experts and partners to improve impact measurement and contribute to the emergence of third-generation renewable materials that are not in direct competition with foodstuffs. For example, Danone contributes to the Bio-Plastics Feedstocks Alliance platform with the World Wildlife Fund to develop a “sustainability” standard for bio based packaging materials. Danone Sustainability Report 2012 37 HIGHLIGHTS STRATEGY 2012 NATURE Agriculture: support competitive agriculture that creates social, environmental and nutritional value Commit to joining with others to promote agriculture that is more respectful of the environment In 2012 Danone launched a Sustainable Agriculture taskforce to redefine its strategy. Internal and external stakeholders (Danone Ecosystem Fund, experts panel, etc.) were involved from the start, first to select a tool for assessing farm sustainability (based on RISE approach developed by Bern University), referencing a complete benchmark (100 tools assessed) that addresses all four dimensions: health, economy, nature and social. The taskforce then implemented the vision operationally through concrete projects in six pilot countries in 2013 (in Europe, Americas and Asia) covering all models of dairy production. The goal is to create momentum for developing sustainable agricultural practices, in close cooperation with producers and stakeholders in the dairy sector. In 2012 the Fresh dairy products division launched its Animal Well-Being program comprising a number of practices to be applied at the farm level, to ensure not only animal well-being but also food safety, plan for regulatory changes and ensure that the farmer continues to earn revenues over the medium and long term. This program, developed in cooperation with scientists, livestock farmers and animal protection organizations, is based on three priorities: • strengthen farmers’ awareness of animal well-being by providing them with the necessary information and tools; • reward good animal well-being practices. Farmers who make progress in the area of animal well-being will be recognized by Danone in a variety of ways (a label, a prize, etc.); • ensure a high level of animal well-being while improving milk production. Danone intends to draft action plans, in collaboration with livestock specialists, dedicated to improving animal well-being and farm performance. 38 Danone Sustainability Report 2012 Biodiversity: protect the ecosystems connected to agriculture and forests The impact of Danone’s business on biodiversity is primarily related to upstream agriculture (soil and water). A pilot lifecycle analysis study was launched in 2012 by the Danone Brazil subsidiary with IPE (a local Non Governmental Organization) and the IUCN to develop a methodology for evaluating issues relating to biodiversity in Danone’s value chain. In 2012, the Villavicencio brand began an innovative partnership with the NGO Banco de Bosques, and implemented the “Déjà tu Huella” (“Leave your mark”) operation, which invited consumers to participate in creating a new nature reserve. For every bottle purchased during a two-month period, Villavicencio committed to protecting one square meter of parkland. The initiative included efforts to raise public awareness of the dangers of deforestation and the importance of biodiversity for the local ecosystem, and had a significant impact: nearly 2,200 hectares were protected, the public participated actively in the project, and consumer preference for the Villavicencio brand increased. Since 2010, Danone has included a panel of experts and external stakeholders in its strategic thinking about its long-term direction. These efforts have revolved in particular around the following themes: “full scope” carbon footprint including upstream agriculture, transforming packaging waste into resources and biosourced materials, water footprint, sustainable agriculture and biodiversity. Danone Sustainability Report 2012 39 STRATEGY Measuring throughout progress and the value performance chain Danone Way 41 Respect 46 Danone’s evaluation by NON-FINANCIAL rating agencies 50 40 Danone Sustainability Report 2012 DANONE WAY Danone Way: key practices in Danone subsidiaries for sustainable business development Launched in 2001, the Danone Way program helps to disseminate the sustainable development culture and fundamentals within the group, by measuring the subsidiaries’ social and environmental responsibility performance. Every year, the group’s subsidiaries assess the maturity of their policies and their corresponding performance levels for 16 key practices in five areas: human rights, human relations, environment, consumers and governance. This program meets stakeholders’ expectations in terms of measuring Danone’s non-financial performance and is also a driver of ongoing improvement for all the subsidiaries. Danone Way enables: • to provide guidance to subsidiaries operating as start ups, particularly in emerging countries; • to integrate Danone's sustainable development strategic priorities and culture into newly acquired, but already structured, subsidiaries; • each subsidiary to compare its performance to that of its fellows and seek for areas of improvement. Change in methods in 2012 Since the new version of Danone Way was introduced in 2007, the group has sought to define guidelines that meet two needs: • the need for sufficiently consistent guidelines to ensure a clear understanding of the subsidiaries’ progress over a period of several years; • the need to respond to stakeholders’ increasing requirements, changes to Danone’s strategy in these areas, and the specific features of the various subsidiaries (size, maturity and type of business). In 2012, and as announced in the 2011 Sustainability Report, significant changes were made to the program that raised standards compared with 2011. These changes involved: • adapting the guidelines to changes in sustainable development issues that have become an increasingly integral part of Danone’s business: give greater priority to the nutritional quality of products for consumers by establishing two separate practices instead of only one: product composition as well as responsible communications related to product promotion, while taking account of specific aspects relating to the divisions’ activities; expand efforts to develop the group’s human capital by also transitioning from one to two practices: first, increase employment options for all Danoners with appropriate training programs throughout their careers, and second, support individual development by matching employees’ personal and professional ambitions with the company’s needs; Danone Sustainability Report 2012 41 Measuring progress and performance throughout the value chain DANONE WAY health at work is incorporated into the safety at work issue to create an expanded fundamental encompassing health, safety and working conditions. This issue now includes stress management-related programs to comply with the agreement signed between Danone and IUF in 2011; the fundamental concerning compensation for all Danone employees has been removed from Danone Way scope of responsibility and is now monitored as part of “Dango”, Danone's internal control program. The subsidiaries received more extensive support as a result of these changes, to facilitate their adoption: • dynamic materials were created for greater understanding of the added value and content of the Danone Way program and how it works; • collaborative training and information sessions about the various key practices were organized and attended by some 250 participants in total; • all of the materials thus generated were made available on a platform accessible to all the subsidiaries. External audits to certify the program To demonstrate the objectivity of the Danone Way framework and the reliability of the approach results to all group stakeholders, the program has been audited by an independent firm since 2002 (KPMG since 2007). Assessments of 14 subsidiaries representing 20.5% of the group’s net sales were audited by KPMG between October 2012 and January 2013. Taking these audits together with the review of the consolidation method applied to all the subsidiaries’ results, KPMG certifies the Danone Way program’s 2012 results (limited assurance level). The resulting opinion is published on pages 83 to 85 of this report. 20.5% of the net sales of participant subsidiaries verified by external third part 42 Danone Sustainability Report 2012 2012 results Scope of assessment 146 subsidiaries took part in Danone Way in 2012 (vs. 142 in 2011), representing 89% of the group’s net sales (vs. 92% in 2011), the subsidiaries not involved correspond to Unimilk group companies. Out of the 146 subsidiaries involved in the program, 28 follow the “Danone Way Light” guidelines for small subsidiaries. It should also be noted that some subsidiaries do not conduct self-assessments on all Danone Way program fundamentals, as the group and/or the subsidiaries consider 146 that certain evaluation criteria do not apply to them. Detailed results Methodology note: All of the results presented below show the trend from 2011 to 2012. They are calculated on a like-for-like basis for easier comparison of subsidiaries results. self-assessed Overall scores through According to the Danone Way methodology, the subsidiaries are awarded Danone Way a certain number of stars for their performance based on the scale below: 0 stars Little or no awareness of sustainable development objectives 1 stars no proactive program Aware of certain sustainable development objectives 2 stars occasional steps are taken Aware of sustainable development objectives 3 stars the most important practices are implemented Best sustainable development practices are implemented, 4 stars in some cases using an innovative and/or distinctive approach Innovative and/or distinctive practices are implemented 5 stars for all sustainable development objectives The 2012 results are as follows, for all the subsidiaries: Breakdown of subsidiaries by number of stars obtained: Star Challenge 7% 7% 36% 38% Star challenge 35% 35% 17% 14% 3% 4% 3% 1% No stars 2011 2012 8% 7% Danone Sustainability Report 2012 43 40% 39% Star challenge 35% 35% 17% 14% 3% 4% Measuring progress and performance3%throughout the 1% No stars value chain 2011 2012 DANONE WAY 7% 7% 8% 7% 36% 38% 40% 39% Star challenge Distinguishing 35% between 35%subsidiaries applying the full Danone Way 36% Star challenge full 32% guidelines and those applying the “light” version, the results are as follows: 17% 14% 17% 15% 3% 4% 3% 1% No stars 2% 3% Breakdown 2011 subsidiaries by number of of 2012 stars obtained: 2% 1% No stars 2011 2012 Star Challenge Full Star Challenge Light 0% 8% 7% 9% 14% 40% 39% 50% 36% Star challenge full Star challenge light 32% 36% 32% 18% 17% 15% 9% 3% 9% 2% 9% 2% 1% No stars 9% 5% No stars 2011 2012 2011 2012 0% 9% 14% Overall, distribution across the levels of stars remained stable, as did the number of subsidiaries 50% participating 36% in the Danone Way program. Given that the 2012 guidelines were more demanding than in 2011, the results are very satisfactory, Star challenge light with 81% of subsidiaries 32% scoring at least 3 stars, i.e. the lowest performance threshold recommended 18% by the group. The Baby and Medical nutrition divisions 9% continue to9%develop their 9% commitment to the program, leading to a significant rise 9% No stars in the number of2012 2011 “light” version 5% subsidiaries reaching the minimum 3 stars threshold (77% in 2012 compared with 64% in 2011). These results demonstrate that the efforts made to adapt the 2012 Danone Way guidelines to the specific features of small entities and the support given to subsidiaries, irrespective of size, were effective. Topics and Key Practices Average score by topic 60 49 49 50 48 48 50 44 45 47 46 44 40 Thématiques 30 20 10 2011 2012 0 Human Human EnvironConGoverRights Relations ment sumers nance This chart illustrates the change in subsidiaries’ average score (total for policies and indicators) for each of the 5 Danone Way areas in 2011 and 2012. 44 Danone Sustainability Report 2012 Average score by fundamental 60 55 55 53 55 54 52 51 51 52 52 53 50 47 45 47 48 49 46 44 45 44 46 42 44 42 43 42 42 40 42 44 Thématiques 40 33 31 30 20 10 0 Diversity Safety, Employees Working Training Individual EnvironEnvironRaw Packaging Quality Nutrition Standards on Business Suppliers Shared health and involvement time & development mental mental materials impacts manageand health nutrition and conduct and business value working and social organization footprint risks production/ ment standards health policies partners csr creation conditions dialogue supply for products marketing & through communication community involvement 2011 2012 This chart illustrates the change in subsidiaries’ average score (total for policies and indicators) for each of the 16 Danone Way key practices in 2011 and 2012. While results improved in 2012 on the Environment topic and remained stable in Human Relations, they were down for Human Rights, Consumers and Governance. These results reflect the more stringent requirements integrated into the 2012 guidelines: • Human Rights: the introduction of the Danone/IUF agreement on health, safety, working conditions and stress requires the subsidiaries to apply practices that extend beyond the issue of workplace safety; • Consumers: the higher internal standards linked to product nutrition quality are raising product formulation requirements; • Governance: measurement of the performance of social innovation projects reflects inequalities between the subsidiaries in terms of their teams’ professional approach; • Environment: roll-out of the GREEN program and efforts to structure environmental reporting continue to bear fruits; • Human relations: although this result is difficult to compare with 2011 due to the removal of the compensation policy criteria, globally the subsidiaries responded well to the rise in standards for training practices and individual development. Danone Way in 2013 Efforts made in 2012 to integrate the new guidelines will be leveraged in 2013. While the requirements for the new campaign have only slightly changed, certain evaluation criteria considered as less relevant have been removed. The subsidiaries will therefore be able to consolidate their practices and continue their ongoing transformation to implement more sustainable business models. Danone Sustainability Report 2012 45 Measuring progress and performance throughout the value chain RESPECT The RESPECT program The RESPECT approach launched in 2005 consists in extending the “dual economic and social project” to the group’s entire supply chain, except milk producers, following a specific process: • contractualizing the Sustainable Development Principles with the group’s suppliers (social, environmental and ethics) including the Sustainable Development Principles (social, environmental and ethical) in suppliers’ contracts and/or general terms of procurement; • sharing information through supplier self-declarations concerning their Corporate Social Responsibility performance, using the SEDEX platform shared by all consumer goods industry players in the AIM-progress association (see this link for more information: www.sedexglobal.com); • external CSR audits using the SMETA benchmark for suppliers viewed as at-risk based on this information exchange, with a view to implementing an appropriate action plan (see diagram below and this link for more information on the benchmark: www.sedexglobal.com/ethical-audits/smeta). “Non-compliant” ACTION suppliers RESPECT control procedure PLAN “At-risk EXTERNAL AUDIT suppliers” RISK MAPPING via SEDEX shared with other SEDEX members REGISTRATION ON SEDEX CONTRACTUAL CLAUSE (Sustainable Development Principles) 0% Suppliers covered 100% 46 Danone Sustainability Report 2012 2012 results More than 300 new suppliers completed self-assessments of their CSR performance on the SEDEX platform under the continued rollout of the RESPECT policy in 2012. During the 2009-2012 period, a total of 2,361 suppliers from all divisions completed self-evaluations. This represents nearly 70% of the 3,500 suppliers targeted by this approach around the world, due to the scope of their relationship with the group and the nature of their products and/or services: raw materials (except milk), packaging, logistics, promotional products and other services. Baby & Fresh Zone Waters Medical dairy Total nutrition products Africa 0 3 70 73 Americas 156 61 367 584 Asia 186 134 161 481 Europe 222 445 556 1,223 Total 564 643 1,154 2,361 This table shows the breakdown by division of the number of suppliers who completed the self-evaluation questionnaire during the 2010/2012 period with enough detail to assign a risk level indicating the need for an audit or not. Based on the self-evaluations by these 2,361 suppliers, 76 new suppliers underwent “SMETA” audits administered by external auditors (in addition to the 184 suppliers audited since 2010). These audits confirm or rule out the risks identified during the SEDEX pre-analysis, and lead to the introduction of action plans where required. Number of audits Zone 2010/2012 Africa 25 Americas 64 Asia 128 Europe 42 Total 260 Danone Sustainability Report 2012 47 Measuring progress and performance throughout the value chain RESPECT The table below shows the breadkdown of non-compliance issues identified by the 104 audits of Danone suppliers carried out in 2012 (included audits carried out on demand of other members of AIM-progress), the results of which were made available on the SEDEX platform. They primarily concern audits completed in China, Brazil and Indonesia. Breakdown of Topic non-compliance issues Health, safety and hygiene 62% Working hours 14% Environment 7% Wages 6% Management systems 5% Work contract 4% Freedom of association 1% Child labor 1% Housing conditions < 1% Forced labor < 1% Ethical practices < 1% Four items continue to account for the great majority (89%) of non-compliance issues: Health, safety and hygiene; Working hours; Environment and Wages. Occurrences of this latter item are on the decline compared with 2011, while non-compliance in the area of Environment is proportionally on the rise. Items relating to child labor and forced labor, priorities for the group, remain at very low levels. It should be noted that any cause for concern regarding either of these two topics leads to an immediate demand for corrective action by the supplier as soon as it is flagged in the SEDEX self-evaluation, independent of the subsequent audit. 48 Danone Sustainability Report 2012 RESPECT outlook The program’s aim and objectives set at the end of 2010 by the RESPECT Committee and Danone’s Executive Management remain current. With regard to the introduction of tools and processes for managing the approach, support given to members of the procurement function undeniably bore fruit in 2012, in terms of understanding the issues encountered based on categories of procurement and geographic regions, and the relevance of solutions proposed to move the commercial relationship in the direction intended by the RESPECT program. Danone’s recognition by the Dow Jones Sustainability Index as the leading global agri-food company in the area of responsible procurement reflects this success. A priority in 2013 will be sharing, unifying and formally defining best practices between the different divisions and countries. Danone had also set the goal in 2010 of recording CSR data for 100% of its major suppliers and auditing 100% of the at risk suppliers. This goal turned out to be more ambitious and complex than expected. In addition to introducing the necessary organization within Danone, the need to involve suppliers in registering and communicating sometimes sensitive information is a major challenge, not just for Danone but for all AIM-progress members. In response to this issue, the association introduced a new SEDEX questionnaire at the end of 2011 that is more relevant to suppliers’ specific business models and locations. Following this necessary update the validity of responses given by many suppliers needed reviewing, which slowed progress in the coverage rate of self-evaluations. Danone Sustainability Report 2012 49 DANONE’S RATING BY NON-FINANCIAL RATING AGENCIES Dow Jones Sustainability Index Rating – September 2012 The Dow Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI) is a leading global index that rates the sustainable development performances of the top 340 companies (selected from a peer group of 1,544 companies reviewed), notably with respect to their social, environmental and economic performance. Over the years, the criteria have become increasingly demanding, and companies must constantly improve in order to remain listed on the index. Danone has been included in the index since its creation in 1999 and achieved a score of 83% (81% in 2011), confirming its position among the leaders in the ranking which, for the agri-food industry, consists of a panel of the top 15 global companies chosen for the 2012 index. In 2012, Danone therefore received the Silver class distinction awarded by SAM Robeco, the company that administers DJSI. A change of index methodology was introduced in 2012 transferring the Supply Chain management criterion from the social to the economic area. As Danone performs well in this criterion (with 97 points, the best rating in the sector), the change significantly impacts results, with a decline in the social area and an Danone DJSI rating 2012 increase in economic performance. 100 91 91 89 Economic area 90 78 83 82 83 86 80 73 76 Danone increased its rating by eight points compared with 2011 in this 70 66 67 criterion and obtained the sector’s highest score (91 points) in the economic area. 60 50 This increase is due to consistently good performance in the Supply Chain 40 management criterion (97 points, highest rating in the sector), and for the 30 second year running, Danone’s health and nutrition practices (+10 points) and 20 10 innovation management which rose by 14 points to achieve the sector’s highest 0 Economic Environmental Social Overall score. Areas for improvement include better distribution and promotion of the area area area business conduct policy. Minimum DJSI global rating Danone rating Maximum DJSI global rating 50 Danone Sustainability Report 2012 Environmental area Danone remains one of the companies receiving the highest scores in the environmental area (83 points) and the difference with the industry leader is maintained, despite being one point down from 2011. The group retained its leading position in packaging management and environmental policy implementation systems. While Danone ceded its leading position in raw materials procurement and environmental reporting criteria, it remains among the highest scorers. With respect to the policy on Genetically Modified Organisms (GMOs), Danone improved its results by 12 points compared with the preceding year. This area nevertheless remains one where major progress can be made. Social area Performance in the social area was slightly down in 2012 to 73 points. While Danone remains the leader with respect to attracting and retaining talent, it failed to improve its rating in health at work (as subcontractor safety reporting was not available in 2012) and achieved a lower score in social reporting (due to incomplete documentation of the materiality test). Danone Sustainability Report 2012 51 Measuring progress and performance throughout the value chain DANONE’S RATING BY NON-FINANCIAL RATING AGENCIES VIGEO rating – February 2013 As the leading European non-financial rating company, Vigeo measures the performance of Dow Jones Global 1800 Index companies in Europe, Americas and Asia with respect to social responsibility in six rating areas (see table). In February 2013, Danone was therefore rated among a peer group of 18 companies in the food sector and maintained its position as the leader in the food industry with a stable general score of 60/100 and the confirmation of its leading position on all the rating areas except Corporate Governance. Assessment of Danone’s environmental, social and governance Company’s performance performance in February 2013 for the six areas of assessment and in comparison with its sector changes relative to July 2011. Scores Ratings Scores Ratings 0 25 50 75 100 Domain evaluated 07/2011 07/2011 02/2013 02/2013 Human Rights 70 ++ 70 ++ Human Rights 70 Environment 60 ++ 56 ++ Environment 56 Human Resources 69 ++ 72 ++ Business Behavior 55 ++ 60 ++ Human 72 Resources Corporate Governance 53 = 52 = Business Community Involvment 58 ++ 54 ++ Behaviour 60 ++ the company is ranked as a leading performer in its sector. Corporate 52 + the company is ranked as an active performer in its sector. Governance = the company is ranked as an average performer in its sector. the company is ranked as a below average performer in its sector. Community Involvement 54 -the company is ranked as a poor performer in its sector. In five of the six areas assessed by Vigeo, Danone’s scores remained stable and were the best in the sector: • the Human Rights remain a strength thanks to Danone’s ability to fully integrate freedom of association, the negociation of collective agreements and anti-discrimination measures into its strategy; • the Business Behavior is also earned favorable mention, given the improvements made on transparency on its influence strategies and the integration of social and environmental factors in the upstream portion of Danone business; • the Human Resources area is also a strength, particularly due to training and employability for all employees and management of career's system, and to the cooperation between Danone and IUF notably in terms of health and safety. • the Environment area benefits from a strategy deployed worldwide, supported by quantitative objectives including the major challenges related to Danone’s business. Moreover, the group’s performance on biodiversity is highlighted. Implementing a group policy in order to reduce environmental impacts from transportation remains a room for improvement; 52 Danone Sustainability Report 2012 • Danone is also recognized for its societal commitment, its ability to Governance incorporate into its strategy the challenges related to access to water and 100 Consumer 90 nutritional solutions adapted to the most underprivileged populations, and its Issues 80 Human Rights contribution to communities development notably via dedicated funds 70 52 60 (danone.communities and the Danone Ecosystem Fund); 50 40 66 • Danone still lagged behind the leaders in the area of Coporate Governance 56 30 20 Labor and shareholder rights, while good practices are highlighted (CSR review by Practices 10 Board members and integration of CSR criteria in remuneration). 52 61 Community Involvelment Lastly, the Vigeo report underscores that the information made available by and Development 56 Danone for these assessments covered 90% of the criteria used for the methodology, 72 or on average 38% than the rest of the food sector. This result demonstrates the Human Environment true recognition of CSR issues by Danone across its entire value chain and its Resources commitment to transparency with stakeholders for its sustainable development Score Danone strategy. Score maximum Score minimum VIGEO rating based on ISO 26000 – February 2013 Along with this assessment, Vigeo evaluated Danone with respect to the ISO 26000 standard published in late 2010 and representing a generic framework for defining and managing a social responsibility program. The results are described below. This evaluation illustrates the consistency of Danone’s performance across all seven areas of ISO 26000. Danone is included in the ASPI and Ethibel sustainable development indexes, which highlight the company’s performance with respect to societal performance and respect for the environment at the European level. Governance 100 The Aspi Eurozone index includes the 120 listed euro-zone companies with 90 S Consumer 80 the highest Vigeo ratings for environmental and societal performance. Issues 70 Human Rights H 53 60 L 50 67 40 The Ethibel index provides potential investors with a broad view of leading 58 30 20 companies in the sustainable development and societal responsibility areas. It rates 10 Danone in the “Ethibel Excellence Europe” and “Ethibel Excellence Global” 57 Fair Community categories. Operating 54 Involvement Practices and Development 60 69 Labor Environment Practices Danone Sustainability Report 2012 53 Measuring progress and performance throughout the value chain DANONE’S RATING BY NON-FINANCIAL RATING AGENCIES Carbon Disclosure Project Rating In 2012 Danone entered the Carbon Disclosure Leadership Index for the first time since the group began participating in the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP). The CDP provides an evaluation tool for institutional investors and other stakeholders. In 2012 the index included 51 firms selected for the quality 97% of data disclosed and performance in actions taken to reduce climate change. in the The highest scorers enter the Carbon Disclosure Leadership Index (CDLI). Carbon Danone’s high rating (97/100) illustrates the group’s good internal data management and its understanding of climate change issues relevant to it. Disclosure The score also rewards Danone’s high degree of transparency in its responses. Project Access to Nutrition Index Rating “Access to Nutrition Index” (ATNI) is a new international rating index created at the joint initiative of GAIN (Global Alliance for Improved Nutrition), the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation and Welcome Trust. Every two years, the index will rate the largest food and beverage companies on their nutrition-related policies, practices and performance. This index aims to encourage those companies to improve their nutritional quality and products accessibility, and to exercise their influence on consumers’ choices and behavior in a responsible way. After the methodology spent three years in development, the world’s 25 largest food and beverage companies were assessed in 2012 on the basis of 2011 performances. In the first ATNI rating published on March 12, 2013 Danone ranked number one with a global rating of 6.3/10, within the group of top performers (Danone, Unilever and Nestlé). The group also achieved the highest ratings in the Accessibility, Marketing and Engagement categories. Strong points highlighted by the Index correspond to Danone’s priority areas for action: • analyze local contexts and study local eating habits to offer appropriate N° 1 products; ranking in • contribute to fighting under-nutrition by means of enriched products; the Access • strive to make products affordable for low-income consumers; To Nutrition • implement responsible marketing practices, particularly with respect Index to children. 54 Danone Sustainability Report 2012 The ATNI also expresses reservations with regard to the issue of breast-milk substitutes. On this topic, and in addition to supporting WHO guidelines, Danone recognizes the need for overall improvement in industry practices and spearheads action in this area. Forest Footprint Disclosure Rating For the first time in 2012 Danone participated in the Forest Footprint Disclosure (FFD), which primarily aims to mitigate the increasing impacts of deforestation. This global rating assesses the impact that very large companies have on forests, based on their use of five raw materials: soy, palm oil, wood and paper pulp, animal feed and biofuels. Danone was able to report the data necessary for this evaluation based on its Forest Policy published in 2012, illustrating the group’s concern for its impacts upstream from the value chain (see link: www.danone.com/nos-politiques/positions/ nos-politiques-positions.html). “Global 100” Rating Every year at the World Economic Forum in Davos, the Global 100 ranks the world’s 100 best performing companies in term of social responsibility. In the 2013 ranking (based on achievements in 2012), Danone finished 75th and obtained the highest rating among agri-food industry companies. This annual rating initiated in 2005 by Corporate Knights (Canadian media, research and investment studies company) is regarded as the most credible evaluation, with criteria based on data published by companies. Danone Sustainability Report 2012 55 STRATEGY Historical and approach highlights reference documentS 57 highlights and key dates 1972-2012 58 56 Danone Sustainability Report 2012 REfErence DOCUMENTS • A ntoine Riboud’s speech in Marseille (1972) constitutes the group’s cultural heritage. It was formalised in 1974 in the economic and social dual project. • The Fundamental Social Principles, based on the standards defined by the International Labour Organisation, provide the basis to be respected by all companies within the group, Country Business Units, partners and suppliers. • The joint conventions signed with the International Union of Food (IUF) since 1988, which include the World Convention on Diversity, signed on June 8, 2007, serve as the reference for international trade union dialogue within the group. • The Environmental Charter (1996) commits the group from the design of products right through to the recycling of the packaging to a management approach that is more environmentally-responsible. • The Danone Business Conduct Policy (1997, revised in 2001, 2005 and 2009) details the behavior expected of managers on issues such as corruption and conflicts of interest. • The group’s Values, formalised in 1997: openness, enthusiasm, humanism and proximity. • The Food Nutrition and Health Charter (2005, revised in October 2009) formalises Danone’s commitments. The 5 commitments of the new charter represent a response to the concerns of authorities regarding public health issues related to food. • The Global Policy on the Protection of Underground Water Resources (2005) commits Danone to ensuring the sustainable management of its sources. • Franck Riboud’s speech (of December 2008) for the launch of the Chair in “Social Business / Enterprise and Poverty”, in partnership with HEC, reaffirms the economic and social dual project supported by Danone. • CODE: an initiative launched in 2009 aimed at formalising and developing the leadership style and attitudes expected of all employees, in close alignment with the Danone values. • The Danone Inside Pack: created and distributed in 2009 to all employees and all new arrivals. This is the reference document on: the history and background, the Danone values, areas of strategic focus, managerial attitudes (CODE), the Danone Way initiative and the Business Conduct Policy. • The Danone Charter (created in 2005 by Blédina then updated in 2011 by Danone) for the marketing of breast-milk substitutes and other foods for babies and infants concerns Danone’s governance in accordance with the principles of the WHO Code. • Danone’s Public Affairs Policy, created in 2011 and issued in January 2012, commits Danone in its relationships with all stakeholders. • Danone's Forest Footprint policy, created and implemented in 2012, propels Danone into a strategy to eliminate the impact of deforestation on the supply chain, as well as a programme for reforestation by 2020. Danone Sustainability Report 2012 57 Historical approach and highlights highlights and key dates 1972-2012 2011 2010 2012 2009 9th Danone–IUF global framework agreement Launch of the Dan Cares program Creation of the 2008 100% of employees on health, safety, working to bring minimum Danone Ecosystem trained in 2012 conditions and stress. medical coverage to Creation of the Fund approved Danone Fund for (excluding Unimilk). all employees in every at the Annual 35 projects approved and geographic region. Nature with the General Meeting International Union Dan’Cares: supported by the Danone of Shareholders. 27,700 employees Ecosystem Fund at endThe first EVE seminar, for the Conservation insured in 2012, 98% 2011, with 27 partners a women leadership of Nature, this First carbon coming after 10 years employees in 41 countries. from civil society. program created on offset project with Danone’s initiative in of partnership with the Danone Fund for Ramsar (International 43 Ecosystem projects Danone is in the DJSI partnership with other Nature: the restoration in 35 subsidiaries, index for the 13th year companies, uniting Convention on of mangroves in the Protection generating 51,000 jobs. and is joint leader 230 women leaded Senegal in partnerin the Food sector. by the common topic of Wetlands in ship with a local NGO, the World). Danone is listed in the DJSI “Dare to be yourself Oceanium. Index for 14th consecutive 94% of CBUs are covered to act”. year and is No. 2 in food by the Nutripack approach. Launch of the Chair Revision of Food “Social Business/ sector. 84% of Danone Nutrition and Second international products have been Enterprise and Health Charter Poverty” in Danone is listed in the “Microbes for Health” assessed in terms and the Business ATNI index, launched for symposium, organized of nutritional profile. partnership with Conduct Policy. the HEC school. the first time in 2012, and in partnership with the is No. 1 in food sector. Pasteur Institute in Paris: Final integration Safety Charter 366 participants from of the former Numico Danone commits signed by all General to reduce its carbon 6 Livelihoods Fund 34 countries. subsidiaries in Danone Managers. projects in 2012, processes. footprint by 30% involving 7 partner The Danone Nature Fund between 2008 The Employee and 2012. companies. opens up to external Deployment of the Barometer survey partners and becomes Danone Inside Pack is sent for the first Reduction of Danone’s Livelihoods. in most of the CBU’s time to all employees. carbon footprint New carbon offset (document including by -35.2% (target of -30%), projects are launched Danone Way’s history, Enlargement from 2008 to end of 2012. in India. values, strategy and of the International approach, Business Consultation The reduction in Danone’s Conduct Policies, etc). Committee outside carbon footprint from Europe. 2008 to end-2011 is -27.5% (compared with CODE launching: corthe objective of -30% for responds to the 2008-2012 period). the formalizing of the leadership Creation of a dedicated styles and attitudes. plant in India (dairy products) for a Base Of the Pyramid business; initial launch of Fundooz products. 58 Danone Sustainability Danone Sustainability Report Report 2012 2012 1997 1996 1998 1992 Refocusing on Appointment of 1999 Publication of the 3 businesses with Franck Riboud Creation 1991 first annual social high health-nutrition as CEO of Danone. of the 1st network Creation of the and environmental positioning: Dairy for collection Creation of the Managers’ baromeresponsibility report. products, Beverages Environmental and recycling Danone Institute. ter, an opinion survey and Biscuits. Charter. of packaging, for measuring adherSupport for the Eco-Emballages. ence to the group’s Ramsar International Business Conduct Creation of Danone strategy and values. Convention on Policy. Conseils, consumer the protection relations department Danone selected of wetlands. Group’s values in France. for the Dow Jones formalizing: Sustainability Index. Openness, Enthusiasm, Humanism, Proximity. 1985 2007 First meeting at the European level with Creation of the IUF, inaugurating the Danone an international Communities Fund. social dialogue within the group. World Convention 2006 on Diversity signed between Danone Creation of and the International the company Union of Food (IUF). Grameen Danone Foods Limited. 2005 1977 Danone completed the sale of its Danone refocuses Creation of Biscuits and its mission around Food, Nutrition employment Cereal Products health: “Bringing and Health offices in charge division and took health through Charter. of supporting over control of food to as many restructuring. Comprehensive Royal Numico N.V. specialized in people as possible”. global policy 1972 Baby nutrition and on protection of underground 2003 Antoine Riboud’s Medical nutrition. Deployment of the sustainable water resources. Membership speech in Marseille Creation of the procurement of the Global (economic and Social Responsibility (RESPECT) initiaIntegration of Compact of the social dual project). Committee of the tive in all Country the Fundamental United Nations. Board of Directors. Business Units of Social Principles Danone a foundthe group after in conventions ing member of Hosting an internal a pilot phase that were revised the “Sustainable global network: between 2003 and re-signed with the IUF. Agriculture 2001 more than 150 and 2005. Initiative”. people participated Launch of in the “Social Blédina Danone’s DANONE Way. Innovation Labs” charter about commitment which also helped ommercialization to the Global Formalisation establish contact of Baby nutrition Compact was of the Fundaand relations products. reconfirmed mental Social between members in 2009. Principles. of NGOs from several countries and Danone teams. 2000 Over 70% of group employees outside of Western Europe. Danone Sustainability Report 2012 59 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 Performance 60 Danone Sustainability Report 2012 62 72 74 GRI Index IMPACTS AND COMPANY PROFILE AND Self-evaluation of the RESPONSIBILITIES REPORT PARAMETERS application of GRI according to version IN BUSINESS, FROM 3.0 guidelines for the GRI with approval by END TO END KPMG Audit. COMPANY PROFILE 75 REPORT PARAMETERS 76 VALIDATION OF THE REPORT BY AN EXTERNAL THIRD PARTY 83 86 176 PERFORMANCE Contacts INDICATORS GOVERNANCE, COMMITMENTS AND DIALOGUE 86 ECONOMIC 94 ENVIRONMENTAL 102 SOCIAL 134 HUMAN RIGHTS 152 SOCIETY 158 PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY 166 Danone Sustainability Report 2012 61 PERFORMANCE GRI Index AND CONTENT Chapter Page and/or of this Scope page report of RD 1. STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS 1.1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organization (e.g., CEO, 4-5 F chair, or equivalent senior position) about the relevance of sustainability to the organization and its strategy 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities 7 13 F 15 39 & 72 73 2. Organizational Profile 2.1 Name of the organization F p. 5 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services F ch. 2.3, 2.4 2.3 Operational structure of the organization, including main F p. 103 106 divisions, operating companies, subsidiaries, and joint ventures 2.4 Location of organization’s headquarters F p. 5 2.5 Number of countries where the organization operates, and names F ch. 2.2 of countries with either major operations or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability issues covered in the report 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form F p. 5 2.7 Markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, F p. 65 66 and types of customers/beneficiaries) 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization F ch. 2.2, 3.2, 7.1 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding size, F ch. 2.1, 3.1 structure, or ownership 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period 50 55 F 3. Report Parameters Report Profile 3.1 Reporting period (e.g., fiscal/calendar year) for information provided 75 F 3.2 Date of most recent previous report (if any) 75 F 3.3 Reporting cycle (annual, biennial, etc.) 75 F 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents back cov. F Report Scope and Boundary 3.5 Process for defining report content 76 82 F 3.6 Boundary of the report (e.g., countries, divisions, subsidiaries, 76 82 F leased facilities, joint ventures, suppliers) 3.7 State any specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the report 77 82 F 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, 77 82 F outsourced operations, and other entities that can significantly affect comparability from period to period and/or between organizations 3.9 Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations, 77 82 F including assumptions and techniques underlying estimations applied to the compilation of the Indicators and other information in the report RD: Registration Document F : fully reported (across the scope and boundary / perimeter of companies controlled by Danone) // P: partially reported // NR: not reported. 62 Danone Sustainability Report 2012 Chapter Page and/or of this Scope page report of RD 3.10 Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information provided in earlier 76 82 F reports, and the reasons for such re-statement (e.g., mergers/acquisitions, change of base years/periods, nature of business, measurement methods) 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, 76 82 F boundary, or measurement methods applied in the report GRI Content Index 3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures in the report 62 70 F Third party validation 3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance 83 85 F for the report 4. GOVERNANCE, COMMITMENTS AND ENGAGEMENT Gouvernance 4.1 Governance structure of the organization, including committees F ch. 6, 11.2 under the highest governance body responsible for specific tasks, such as setting strategy or organizational oversight 4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also F ch. 6.5 an executive officer (and, if so, their function within the organization’s management and the reasons for this arrangement) 4.3 For organizations that have a unitary board structure, state the number F ch. 6.1 of members of the highest governance body that are independent and/or non-executive members 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recommendations P ch. 7.3 or direction to the highest governance body 4.5 Linkage between compensation for members of the highest governance body, P ch. 6.10, 8.5 senior managers, and executives (including departure arrangements), and the organization’s performance (including social and environmental performance) 4.6 Processes in place for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts F ch. 6.1 of interest are avoided 4.7 Process for determining the qualifications and expertise of the members F ch. 6.2, of the highest governance body for guiding the organization’s strategy 6.3, 6.4 on economic, environmental, and social topics 4.8 Internally developed statements of mission or values, codes of conduct, 87 F ch. 6.4 and principles relevant to economic, environmental, and social performance and the status of their implementation 4.9 Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing 41 49 F ch. 6.4, 7.1 the organization’s identification and management of economic, environmental, and social performance, including relevant risks and opportunities, and adherence or compliance with internationally agreed standards, codes of conduct, and principles 4.10 Processes for evaluating the highest governance body’s own performance, F ch. 6.1 particularly with respect to economic, environmental, and social performance RD: Registration Document F : fully reported (across the scope and boundary / perimeter of companies controlled by Danone) // P: partially reported // NR: not reported. Danone Sustainability Report 2012 63 PERFORMANCE GRI Index AND CONTENT Chapter Page and/or of this Scope page report of RD Commitments to External Initiatives 4.11 Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach or principle 88 F is addressed by the organization 4.12 Externally developed economic, environmental, and social charters, 88 89 F principles, or other initiatives to which the organization subscribes or endorses 4.13 Memberships in associations (such as industry associations) and/or 89 F national/international advocacy organizations Stakeholder Engagement 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization. 90 F Examples of stakeholder groups are: communities; civil society; customers; shareholders and providers of capital; suppliers; and employees, other workers, and their trade unions 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage 90 91 F 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including frequency 91 F of engagement by type and by stakeholder group 4.17 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder 92 P engagement, and how the organization has responded to those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting 5. Management Approach and Performance Indicators 5.1. Economic performance indicators Economic Performance EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed, including revenues, 95 F ch. 4.1, 5 operating costs, employee compensation, donations and other community investments, retained earnings, and payments to capital providers and governments EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organization’s 96 F activities due to climate change EC3 Coverage of the organization’s defined benefit plan obligations 96 F EC4 Significant financial assistance received from government 96 NR Market Presence Range of ratios of standard entry level wage compared to local minimum ADD EC5 wage at significant locations of operation 97 F Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on locally-based suppliers EC6 at significant locations of operation 97 NR Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior management hired EC7 from the local community at locations of significant operation 97 F RD: Registration Document F : fully reported (across the scope and boundary / perimeter of companies controlled by Danone) // P: partially reported // NR: not reported. 64 Danone Sustainability Report 2012 Chapter Page and/or of this Scope page report of RD Indirect Economic Impacts EC8 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services 98 100 P provided primarily for public benefit through commercial, inkind, or pro bono engagement ADD EC9 Understanding and describing significant indirect economic impacts, 101 P including the extent of impacts 5.2. Environmental performance indicators Materials EN1 Materials used by weight or volume 105 P EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials 106 P Energy EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source 106 107 P EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source 107 P ADD EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements 108 P ADD EN6 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy based products and 109 P services, and reductions in energy requirements as a result of these initiatives ADD EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and reductions achieved 109 F Water EN8 Total water withdrawal by source 110 111 P ADD EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water 112 P ADD EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused 112 F Biodiversity EN11 Location and size of land owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, 113 114 F protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas EN12 Description of significant impacts of activities, products, and services 114 115 F on biodiversity in protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas ADD EN13 Habitats protected or restored 115 117 NR ADD EN14 Strategies, current actions, and future plans for managing impacts on biodiversity 117 118 P ADD EN15 Number of IUCN Red List species and national conservation list species 118 P with habitats in areas affected by operations, by level of extinction risk RD: Registration Document F : fully reported (across the scope and boundary / perimeter of companies controlled by Danone) // P: partially reported // NR: not reported. Danone Sustainability Report 2012 65 PERFORMANCE GRI Index AND CONTENT Chapter Page and/or of this Scope page report of RD Emissions, Effluents and Waste EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight (t CO2 eq) 119 120 P EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight (t CO2 eq) 120 121 P ADD EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions achieved 122 P EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight 122 123 P EN20 NO, SO, and other significant air emissions by type and weight 123 P EN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination 123 P EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method 123 124 P EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills 124 F ADD EN24 Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste deemed 124 NR hazardous under the terms of the Basel Convention Annex I, II, III, and VIII, and percentage of transported waste shipped internationally ADD EN25 Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of water bodies 124 P and related habitats significantly affected by the reporting organization’s discharges of water and runoff Products and Services EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and services, 125 126 P and extent of impact mitigation EN27 Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are 126 P reclaimed by category Compliance EN28 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary 127 F sanctions for noncompliance with environmental laws and regulations Transport SUPP EN29 Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other 127 129 F goods and materials used for the organization’s operations, and transporting members of the workforce Overall ADD EN30 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type 130 131 F RD: Registration Document F : fully reported (across the scope and boundary / perimeter of companies controlled by Danone) // P: partially reported // NR: not reported. 66 Danone Sustainability Report 2012 Chapter Page and/or of this Scope page report of RD 5.3. Social performance indicators Employment LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, and region 135 138 F LA2 Total number and rate of employee turnover by age group, gender, and region 139 P ADD LA3 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary 139 NR or part-time employees, by major operations Labor/Management Relations LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements 140 P LA5 Minimum notice period(s) regarding operational changes, 140 P including whether it is specified in collective agreements Occupational Health and Safety ADD LA6 Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management–worker 141 P health and safety committees that help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programs LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, 141 143 P and number of workrelated fatalities by region LA8 Education, training, counseling, prevention, and risk-control programs 144 P in place to assist workforce members, their families, or community members regarding serious diseases ADD LA9 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions 144 P Training and Education LA10 Average hours of training per year per employee by employee category 145 F ADD LA11 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support 146 F the continued employability of employees and assist them in managing career endings ADD LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career 146 147 P development reviews RD: Registration Document F : fully reported (across the scope and boundary / perimeter of companies controlled by Danone) // P: partially reported // NR: not reported. Danone Sustainability Report 2012 67 PERFORMANCE GRI Index AND CONTENT Chapter Page and/or of this Scope page report of RD Diversity and Equal Opportunity LA13 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per 148 149 P category according to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity LA14 Ratio of basic salary of men to women by employee category 150 151 F 5.4. Human rights performance indicators Investment and Procurement Practices HR1 Percentage and total number of significant investment agreements that 153 154 F include human rights clauses or that have undergone human rights screening HR2 Percentage of significant suppliers and contractors that have undergone 154 155 F screening on human rights and actions taken ADD HR3 Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures concerning 155 F aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations, including the percentage of employees trained Non-discrimination HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and actions taken 156 F Freedom of association and collective bargaining HR5 Operations identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association 156 F and collective bargaining may be at significant risk, and actions taken to support these rights Child Labor HR6 Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labor, 157 F and measures taken to contribute to the elimination of child labor Forced and Compulsory Labor HR7 Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced 157 F or compulsory labor, and measures to contribute to the elimination of forced or compulsory labor Security Practices ADD HR8 Percentage of security personnel trained in the organization’s policies or 157 F procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations Indigenous Rights ADD HR9 Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous people 157 NR and actions taken RD: Registration Document F : fully reported (across the scope and boundary / perimeter of companies controlled by Danone) // P: partially reported // NR: not reported. 68 Danone Sustainability Report 2012 Chapter Page and/or of this Scope page report of RD 5.5. Society performance indicators Local Communities S01 Nature, scope, and effectiveness of any programs and practices that assess 159 161 F and manage the impacts of operations on communities, including entering, operating, and exiting Corruption S02 Percentage and total number of business units analyzed for risks related 162 P to corruption S03 Percentage of employees trained in organization’s anti-corruption policies 162 P and procedures S04 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption 162 F Public Policy S05 Public policy positions and participation in public policy development 163 F and lobbying ADD S06 Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to political parties, 163 164 F politicians, and related institutions by country Anti-Competitive Behavior ADD S07 Total number of legal actions for anticompetitive behavior, anti-trust, 164 F and monopoly practices and their outcomes Compliance S08 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary 165 F sanctions for noncompliance with laws and regulations RD: Registration Document F : fully reported (across the scope and boundary / perimeter of companies controlled by Danone) // P: partially reported // NR: not reported. Danone Sustainability Report 2012 69 PERFORMANCE GRI Index AND CONTENT Chapter Page and/or of this Scope page report of RD 5.6. Product Responsibility performance indicators Consumer Health and Safety PR1 Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products and services 167 170 F are assessed for improvement, and percentage of significant products and services categories subject to such procedures ADD PR2 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary 170 P codes concerning health and safety impacts of products and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes Product and Service Labeling PR3 Type of product and service information required by procedures, 171 F and percentage of significant products and services subject to such information requirements ADD PR4 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and 171 172 P voluntary codes concerning product and service information and labeling, by type of outcomes ADD PR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction, including results of surveys 172 P measuring customer satisfaction Marketing Communications PR6 Programs for adherence to laws, standards, and voluntary codes related to 173 174 F marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship ADD PR7 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary 175 P codes concerning marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship by type of outcomes Consumer Privacy ADD PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer 175 P privacy and losses of customer data Compliance PR9 Monetary value of significant fines for noncompliance with laws and 175 F regulations concerning the provision and use of products and services RD: Reference document F : fully reported (across the scope and boundary / perimeter of companies controlled by Danone) // P: partially reported // NR: not reported. 70 Danone Sustainability Report 2012 Danone Sustainability Report 2012 71 PERFORMANCE impacts and responsibilities in business, from end to end The diagram below indicates the impact and key figures regarding Danone’s activity on its value chain. Actions implemented at every step are detailed in this report. Raw and Packaging Industrial production Transport Materials • Pollution from fertilizers • Energy and water consumption • Energy consumption and pesticides • Waste production • Greenhouse gases emissions • Greenhouse gases emissions • Wastewater discharge • Impact on biodiversity • Consumption of renewable • Impact on biodiversity and non-renewable resources • Social impact on transport • Social impact on employees providers • Social impact on suppliers and employment areas • ≈ 30,000 milk producers • 102,401 employees • 28,200 tons of finished • ≈ 30,000 other suppliers • 194 Productions sites products transported • 22.9 million m3 of water • 35.7 million m3 of water • 28% of the Danone in the finished products used for industrial process Carbon Footprint • 40% of the Danone • 4.1 million MWh Carbon Footprint of energy consumed • 31% of the Danone Carbon Footprint 72 Danone Sustainability Report 2012 Sales Consumption End of product lifecycle • Energy consumption • Energy consumption • Pollution of soil, air and water • Greenhouse gases emissions • Greenhouse gases emissions • Indirect waste production • Social impact on Danone • Product's safety and quality • Social impact of population employees and distributors • Products’ economic dedicated to managing waste accessibility • 4 divisions: Fresh dairy products, • 845 million consumers • 40% of packaging Waters, Baby nutrition and • 168 consumer waste recovered Medical nutrition information programs • > 1/3 of packaging made • 20,800 million euros • 84% of net sales compliant of recycled materials of net sales with Danone’s guidelines on • 3.8% of the Danone • More than 40 brands marketed products nutritional quality Carbon Footprint • Active in 130 countries worldwilde Danone Sustainability Report 2012 73 PERFORMANCE COMPANY and report PROFILE parameters COMPANY PROFILE 75 rEport PARAMETERS 76 Validation of THE report by an external third party 83 74 Danone Sustainability Report 2012 COMPANY PROFILE The first information relative to this section of the report The figures and data published in the present report are (company profile) is available in the group’s Registration communicated, unless otherwise specified, for a worldwide Document. References to the relevant pages are indicated body of companies controlled by Danone (list of in the GRI index published on pages 62 to 70 of this report. consolidated companies in the Registration Document); the Registration Document and Economic and Social This report covers Danone’s economic, social and Report are complementary and available for download on environmental performance for the period from January 1 the website www.danone.com. to December 31, 2012. Awards received during the The indicators and management systems described in this reporting period report were prepared in compliance with the guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI 3.0). These provide • Danone was selected for the Dow Jones Sustainability a balanced and reasonable presentation of the group’s Index (DJSI) for the fourteenth year in a row, and is economic, environmental and social organization. rated Silver Class in the SAM Robeco ranking for the The indicators are presented using the GRI 3 references Food sector; (e.g. EC2. Financial implications and other risks and • in 2012, Danone entered the opportunities for the organization’s activities due to Carbon Disclosure Leadership climate change). Index (CDP) for the time since the group began participating in CDP, with a score of 97/100 (an 8 points In compliance with the GRI criteria, increase compared to 2011); Danone gave itself a B+ rating (in • in the first ATNI rating campaign, Danone ranked n°1 accordance with version 3.0 guidelines). within the food companies in the nutritional quality KPMG Audit reviewed and approved area, with a score of 6,3/10; the Danone group’s self-evaluation of its • in the framework of the World Economic Forum in GRI application level. Davos, Danone ranked 75th of the “Global 100” rating of the world's 100 best performing companies in terms The indicators also meet the information requirements of of social responsibility; Articles R225-104 and R225-105 of the Code of • Danone is also included in the major sustainable Commerce and take into account the “annual social development indices: Ethibel Sustainability Index and indicators” jointly agreed upon by the IUF (International ASPI Eurozone, ranked in the Union of Food workers) and Danone in September 2004. “Ethibel Excellence Europe” and “Ethibel Excellence Global” A portion of the social, environmental and societal data categories. Detailed results of contained in this document was published in section 7.2 of Danone’s ranking in 2012 by the the group’s 2012 Registration Document and verified as major rating indices are presented such by PricewaterhouseCoopers and Ernst & Young. This on pages 50 to 56 of this report). data is addressed by a report expressing reasonable assurance published in section 7.2 of the group’s Registration Document. The previous report covering the period from January 1 to December 31, 2011 was published for the Shareholders’ General Meeting on April 26, 2012. Danone Sustainability Report 2012 75 Company profile and report parameters rEport PARAMETERS This section of the report corresponds to GRI indicators 3.1 The main subsidiaries that did not report social indicators to 3.11 (see GRI index on pages 62 to 70 of this Report). (excluding total workforce) and for which the integration process is planned and/or ongoing are Danone Russia, the Consolidation scope Unimilk group companies in Russia, and the Baby and coverage scopes nutrition and Medical nutrition subsidiaries in India created following the 2012 acquisition of the Wockhardt The financial data included in this report corresponds to group’s baby nutrition and medical nutrition businesses. consolidated historical data from the 2012 Registration Document. It was prepared in compliance with IFRS Safety scope accounting standards as adopted by the European Union. In 2012, 151 group entities representing around 83% of the group’s total workforce reported safety indicators The consolidation scope is composed of all the subsidiaries (Safety scope). fully consolidated for the establishment of the group consolidated financial statement, in other words the The main subsidiaries that did not report all safety subsidiaries in which the group holds, directly or indirectly, indicators and for which the integration process is planned a controlling interest. and/or ongoing are Danone Russia, Danone Ukraine, the Unimilk group subsidiaries in Russia, and the Baby However, some small or recently acquired subsidiaries do nutrition and Medical nutrition subsidiaries in India not report all the social (safety) and environmental created following the 2012 acquisition of the Wockhardt indicators, in particular the ones included in Unimilk and group’s baby nutrition and medical nutrition businesses. Wockhardt groups. The non-reporting subsidiaries may be different depending on the nature of these indicators, such Production site environment scope that the scope of coverage varies for the following categories In 2012, 164 production sites (among the group’s 194 of indicators: production sites) located in 60 different countries and • Total group scope; representing around 92% of the group’s consolidated net • Social indicators scope; sales, reported environmental indicators (Production site • Safety scope; environment scope), other than the GHG Protocol • Production site environment scope; Corporate indicators. • Greenhouse gases emissions scope – Danprint scope; • Greenhouse gases emissions scope – GHG scope. The environmental impacts of administrative headquarters and logistics bases are not included in the consolidation Total Group scope and Social scope (except for certain indicators, when the logistics bases indicators scope are adjacent to an industrial site). In 2012, 187 group entities, located in 59 different countries and representing around 85% of the group’s total Greenhouse gases – Danprint scope workforce reported social indicators (Social indicators In 2012, this scope covered 94% of the group’s sales scope), except indicators concerning total workforce for volumes. which the coverage rate is 100% (Total group scope). 76 Danone Sustainability Report 2012 Greenhouse gases – GHG scope Variations in consolidation scope (organization approach) In accordance with the GHG Protocol Corporate standard, Scope variations arise from fully integrated subsidiaries this indicator covers all sites and vehicles under Danone’s creations, acquisitions, disposals or liquidations. operational control: production sites, distribution centers, offices, etc. The subsidiaries integration and exit of the consolidation scope rules used for environmental and social data are the In 2012, 121 group entities, located in 53 different same as the rules used for the group’s financial statements: countries and representing around 92% of the group’s • acquisition: data for the acquired entity is included in consolidated net sales, reported GHG Protocol Corporate the consolidation scope at the date the group took indicators (Greenhouse gases – GHG scope). control; • creation: the entity’s data is included in the scope from The main subsidiaries that did not report all environmental the date of creation; indicators including GHG Protocol Corporate, and for • disposal or liquidation: data for the entity sold or which the integration process is planned and/or ongoing liquidated is withdrawn from the consolidation scope at are the Unimilk group companies and the Baby nutrition the effective disposal or liquidation date in the current and Medical nutrition subsidiaries in India created financial year. following the 2012 acquisition of the Wockhardt group’s baby nutrition and medical nutrition businesses. When data is reported at production site level rather than subsidiary level (case of certain environmental indicators), For the Medical nutrition division, the ten subsidiaries with the rules for integrating or removing sites from the the highest net sales (67% of the division’s net sales) and consolidation scope are as follows: including the division’s entire production were integrated • acquisition: data for the acquired site is included in the into GHG Protocol Corporate reporting. consolidation scope at the date of acquisition; • creation: data for the newly constructed site is included For this scope, social, environmental and safety data is in the consolidation scope from the starting up date; 100% integrated (comprehensive integration of data). • disposal or closing: data for the site closed or disposed is withdrawn from the consolidation scope at the effective disposal or closing date. Like-for-like basis variations (constant scope) The group measures evolutions of some social and environmental indicators on a like-for-like basis that is to say on a constant consolidation scope. The 2012 data is restated using a consolidation scope identical to the 2011 scope. Danone Sustainability Report 2012 77 Company profile and report parameters rEport PARAMETERS Selection of indicators Social indicators The group central Human Resources Department is The social indicators presented: responsible for social indicators with the exception of safety • correspond to Danone’s human resources policy in terms indicators. Reported data is generally derived from wage of monitoring of workforce and social performance and payment system installed in the subsidiaries and is reported employee management and development performance; via the group financial consolidation software (SAP/ • take into account cultural specificities and local Business Objects Financial Consolidation). differences (various national legislations or legal obligations, etc.). Safety indicators The group central Safety Department is responsible for The environmental indicators presented: environmental indicators. Reported data are monthly • correspond to Danone’s environmental policy and reflect entered at the level of each subsidiary the group the progress made by production plants; these indicators consolidation system, WISE. are relevant to the group’s business; • make it possible to monitor Danone’s environmental Environmental indicators performance with regard to its primary environmental The group central Nature Department is responsible for challenges. environmental indicators. Environmental data is reported by the Environment manager of each production site via Data reporting the NatIV tool. To ensure the homogeneity of indicators across the Regarding GHG Protocol Corporate indicators, data reporting scope, shared data reporting guidelines for social, concerning offices, distribution centers, Research and safety and environmental data are transmitted and updated Development centers and vehicles is collected through each year following data consolidation and comments by a specific IT tool developed by ERM (a specialized contributors. These guidelines specify the methodologies to environmental consulting agency). Production site data use for reporting indicators: definitions, primary is collected using NatIV. methodologies, calculation formulas and standard ratios. Methodological clarifications The guidelines regarding environmental, social, safety and GHG data are available upon request from the Social The methodologies used for certain social and Responsibility Department. environmental indicators may involve de facto limits, due to, in particular: The social, safety and environmental indicators are • the absence of shared national and/or international transmitted from the subsidiaries and production sites and definitions; are consolidated at group level by the concerned • the estimates required, the representative nature of department. measurements or the limited availability of external data needed for calculations. This is why the definitions and methodologies used for the indicators hereafter are specified. 78 Danone Sustainability Report 2012 Workforce Employees with disabilities A negligible portion of the managerial workforce is not This indicator covers employees declared as disabled included in the data reporting framework (a few cases of workers. The definition of a person with disabilities is internationally mobile employees on assignment in other determined by local regulations in the different countries. group entities). Furthermore, some disparities may exist in In addition, due to local regulatory specificities, certain the workforce accounting methods for expatriate employees countries include both externally documented disability (it is notably the case for expatriate employees who have recognition and disability recognized internally by the three-parts contracts signed between the employee and the on-site occupational physician. two subsidiaries). Absenteeism Employees in long-term leaves (more than nine months) are The absenteeism rate is expressed as a percentage, calculated not included in the workforce registered at the end of the by the total number of absence hours divided by the reporting period. theoretical total number of working hours. Absences included in this indicator are those for illness (with or In China, employees remunerated by Danone, but whose without hospitalization), absences due to work stoppages, contracts are with a third-party company (equivalent to a and unjustified absences. Hours of absence due to temporary work agency) are not included in the workforce. maternity/paternity leave and long-term absences (of more than nine months) are not included in the indicator. Short-term contracts and movements within the group are not included in the entries/exits. The hypothesis choice for the theoretical worked hours calculation method is at the discretion of the subsidiaries, Net job creation taking into account local specificities, which can lead to The net creation of jobs is the current financial year minor heterogeneities. workforce compared with the last financial year workforce, on a like-for-like basis (with corrections of the acquisitions Some subsidiaries monitor the absenteeism only for hourly and disposal effects). paid employees; other employees are included in a specific program providing them some available off-days that can Number of training hours and be used for several reasons (holidays, sickness...). number of employees trained Training data from French subsidiaries includes training Frequency rates of workplace accidents categorized as ongoing professional training as well as other The frequency rate 1 (FR1) is the number of accidents with types of training. lost time of one day or more that occur over a twelvemonth period, for every one million hours worked. The The number of employees trained includes all employees hours worked are real hours worked; by default, theoretical who benefited from at least one training session during worked hours are taken into account based on local the year, including employees no longer present at practices and regulations. December 31, 2012. The hypothesis choice for the theoretical worked hours The training sessions for which evidence have not been calculation method is at the discretion of the subsidiaries, received yet at the reporting closure limit are not included, taking into account local specificities, which can lead to which can lead to underestimation. minor heterogeneities. Safety indicators cover temporary personnel working on Danone’s sites and interns who have a training agreement with Danone. Danone Sustainability Report 2012 79 Company profile and report parameters rEport PARAMETERS Temporary personnel refers to individuals under Danone’s Energy consumption direct management for whom working time is available (in By definition, the environmental indicators only include number of hours), this can create discrepancies in the scope the impacts of production sites, with the exception of the of the workforce accounted for by the sites. GHG Protocol Corporate indicators. When Research and Development centers or other non-industrial sites are Waste located adjacent to production sites, estimates may be made Reporting of waste data in 2012 is based on four categories by the production sites to only take into account their own (packaging waste, materials waste, other non-hazardous energy consumption (estimate and deduction of energy waste and hazardous waste). consumed by the non-industrial site adjacent to the plant). Consolidated data for waste in 2012 does not include In some cases, the energy consumption of buildings (i) sludge from treatment facilities, (ii) returned products adjacent to industrial sites is included if the site is not able (raw materials rejected for non-compliance / unsold to separate out its own consumption. inventory due to sales issues), (iii) whey and (iv) inert waste (construction waste). Greenhouse gas emissions by organization Greenhouses gases emissions by organization (scopes 1 and The data related to recovered waste includes material 2) for 2012 are calculated using the methodology defined (recycling, compost, reuse...) and energy recovery. in the GHG Protocol Corporate Standard (revised 2010 version). Water consumption Consumption of well or surface water may be estimated The approach chosen by Danone is to integrate all emission when sites have no meters. The definitions and methods of sources over which the group has operational control into accounting for various uses of water (including runoff, i.e. its carbon footprint. All group sites are included: plants, water pumped and returned into streams) are specified in distribution centers, offices, Research and Development the technical environmental guide and the specific software centers, etc., as well as owned or controlled vehicles. tool NatIV. Water consumption includes water used in industrial processes and water that is part of the formulation of finished products. The calculation method used by the group takes into account the water used in open cooling circuits (water pumped and returned without any modification except for temperature). When logistics bases are adjacent to industrial sites, their water consumption is included if the site is not able to separate out its own consumption. 80 Danone Sustainability Report 2012 Scope 1 Emission factors used to characterize the impact of Direct emissions (scope 1) are emissions arising from refrigerant leakages are from the IPCC report “Climate consumption of fuels at the sites (natural gas, propane / Change 2007, 4th Assessment Report, The Physical Science butane / LPG, heating oil, fuel oil and coal), from Basis” published in 2007. consumption of fuel by vehicles (gasoline, diesel, LPG/ CNG, biodiesel, ethanol) and from leakage of refrigerants Wastewater (in compliance with GHG Protocol Corporate, only HFC The data presented corresponds to wastewater after internal and PFC consumption is included). No Danone site uses and/or external treatment. For sites declaring external PFCs. treatment, a purification rate of 90% is considered. When vehicle fuel consumption data is not available, Consolidation and internal control emissions are calculated using the mileage travelled. Danone’s group central Human Resources, Safety and Regarding offices, the data used for 2012 calculation is that Environment Departments respectively consolidate social, of 2011, as this data does not vary from year to another. safety and environmental data based on the information reported by production sites and group subsidiaries around Scope 2 the world. Indirect emissions (scope 2) are emissions arising from the production of electricity, steam, heat or cold purchased by Social data is collected in each of the group’s subsidiaries. the group. Reported data is generally derived from wage payment systems installed in the subsidiaries. Data consistency is Direct emissions are calculated based on the emission verified and then approved by the Human Resources factors and global warming potential (GWP) of each department in each subsidiary before publication in the activity data 1 (scope 1 emissions sources). SAP/Business Object tool. The emission factors and GWPs used in calculating Safety data is collected monthly by each site via the group’s emissions from energy consumption correspond to the safety consolidation system; it is approved through this 2006 IPCC guidelines (2006 IPCC Guidelines for system at the subsidiary level, followed by an approval National Greenhouse Gas Inventories). IPCC is the process and publication by the group working in Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change. Emission connection with the divisions. factors for electricity are those of the International Energy Agency (“CO2 highlights” publication, 2012), factors used Consistency is checked at division and group levels, and a for heat, steam and cold are from the ADEME (Company formal “post-closure change request” procedure is applied and Local Authority Carbon Balance, Guide to Emission for any corrections. Factors, Version 5, 2007). Factors to convert mileage to CO2 emissions are based on the GHG Protocol tool (GHG Environmental data is collected at the level of each emissions from transport or mobile sources, 2010). production site by the Environment manager. It is verified and approved by the subsidiary’s Environment coordinator before consolidation in the NatIV tool. Danone Sustainability Report 2012 81 Company profile and report parameters rEport PARAMETERS The Environment coordinators of each division verify and Adjustment of previous data approve consolidation of environmental data before its final approval by the group’s Nature Department. Certain reporting errors in previous financial years may be detected during the course of the current year’s During consolidation, data consistency is checked by the reporting. If this situation arises, historical data is group central Human Resources, Safety and Environment readjusted to allow better interpretation of results departments. and trends. These verifications particularly involve comparisons with the previous year and calculation of specific ratios to detect anomalies. Any difference seen as significant is investigated and if necessary corrected. External controls To receive an outside opinion of the reliability and robustness of Danone Way approach results, Danone asked KPMG Audit to verify the results of this approach. The audit report detailing the work undertaken and their comments and conclusions can be found on pages 83 to 85 of this report. In addition, some of the social, societal and environmental data published in this report was published in section 7.2 of the group’s Registration Document and verified by PricewaterhouseCoopers and Ernst & Young, Danone’s statutory auditors. This data is identified with the following symbol: √ . The audit report detailing their work and including their comments and conclusions can be found in section 7.2 of the group’s Registration Document. 82 Danone Sustainability Report 2012 Validation of the report by an external third party Danone 17, boulevard Haussmann 75009 Paris This is a free translation into English of the original report issued in French and is provided solely for the convenience of English-speaking readers. This report should be read in conjunction with, and construed in accordance with, French law and professional auditing standards applicable in France. Limited Assurance Report on the Results of the Danone Way Initiative Published in the Group’s Sustainability Report for 2012. As requested, and in our capacity as an independent third party, we hereby present our report on the Results of the Danone Way initiative (“the Results”) provided in the chapter “Danone Way: key practices in Danone subsidiaries for sustainable business development” of the Group’s 2012 Sustainability Report. Management responsibility The data were prepared under the responsibility of the Group’s Corporate Organization Development and Social Dynamics Department, in accordance with the Danone Way internal protocol (the “Protocol”) which may be consulted at the department. The sections “Change in methods in 2012” and “2012 Results” presented in the chapter “Danone Way: key practices in Danone subsidiaries for sustainable business development” provide further details on the consolidation scope, definitions of the fundamentals and methods used to collect and control the published Results. Independence and quality control Our independence is defined by the rules and regulations, ethical code of the profession and the provisions of Article L.822-11 of the French Commercial Code. In addition, we implemented a quality control system which included documented policies and procedures aimed at ensuring compliance with the ethical rules, professional standards and applicable rules and regulations. Responsibility of the independent third party It is our responsibility, based on the work performed, to express a limited level of assurance that the Results of the Danone Way initiative are presented, in all material respects, in accordance with the above mentioned Protocol. Danone Sustainability Report 2012 83 Company profile and report parameters Validation of the report by an external third party Limited Assurance Report on the Results of the Danone Way Initiative Published in the Group’s Sustainability Report for 2012 Nature and scope of our work We conducted the review in accordance with International Standards on Assurance Engagements (ISAE 3000), in compliance with professional standards and best practice applicable in France. We performed the following procedures in order to obtain a limited level of assurance that the Results of the Danone Way initiative do not contain any material misstatement likely to call into question the fact that they have been prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with the Protocol. A higher level of assurance would have required more extensive work. We performed the following work: •W  e assessed the suitability of the Danone Way Protocol with regard to its relevance, reliability, neutrality, understandability and completeness; • We conducted interviews at the Corporate Organization Development and Social Dynamics Department to update our knowledge of the reporting process and the organization implemented, and ensure that the Protocol had been correctly applied; • We conducted interviews and carried out surveys on the implementation of the Protocol in fourteen Country Business Units (1) ; the choice of the sample was based on their contribution to Group consolidated data, their activity, their location, a risk analysis and the results of the work we carried out in previous years; • We conducted consistency tests on the consolidation of the Results of the Danone Way initiative. The contribution of the selected Country Business Units represents 20.5% of Danone Way turnover. Conclusion Based on our work, nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the Results of the Danone Way initiative published in the chapter “Danone Way: key practices in Danone subsidiaries for sustainable business development” of the 2012 Sustainability Report have not been prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with the above mentioned Protocol. Nutricia Nederland Baby, Nutricia Cuijk (SP), N.V Nutricia Zoetermeer Medical (SP), Nutricia Great Britain Medical, (1)  Nutricia Liverpool (SP), Nutricia Great Britain Baby, Nutricia Bago Argentina Baby, Kasdorf Argentina Baby, Danone Argentina, Danone Brazil, Support Produtos Nutricionais Brazil Medical, Danone Japan, Danone Waters Japan, Dannon Company. 84 Danone Sustainability Report 2012 Limited Assurance Report on the Results of the Danone Way Initiative Published in the Group’s Sustainability Report for 2012 Comments on the Protocol and on the Results Based on the work performed, the following comments were made on the Protocol, its implementation and the Results: • Th  e criteria and definitions of some Danone Way initiative fundamentals have been reviewed and adapted to better take into account the specificities of the different Country Business Units (division, size, activity) and reflect the latest changes in Danone policies. • The criteria defined by the Group to justify the fact that some Country Business Units are not concerned by some fundamentals have been clarified in the Protocol. However, the persons in charge of the Danone Way initiative in the Country Business Units are not sufficiently aware of this, and the criteria should be further clarified to systematically ensure their correct application. • Internal controls on the Results of the Danone Way initiative have been improved with regard to the consolidation of Group data. However, there is still room for improvement with regard to data collection levels, in particular for the fundamentals related to: quality management (CO1); some Country Business Units have not understood the changes made to the Protocol for this fundamental in 2012; environmental footprint (ENV1) and suppliers’ and business partners’ corporate social responsibility (GOV2); during our work in some Country Business Units, we observed certain difficulties in understanding the requirements defined in the Protocol with regard to these fundamentals. Paris-La Défense, 3rd of April 2013 KPMG Audit Department of KPMG S.A. Philippe Arnaud Partner In charge of the Climate Change and Sustainability Services Department Danone Sustainability Report 2012 85 Performance Performance Governance, Indicators Commitments and Dialogue Governance 87 Commitments to external initiatives 88 Stakeholders engagement 90 86 Rapport Développement Durable Danone 2012 Governance Mandatory information about the company’s governance according to GRI guidelines (indicators 4.1 to 4.10) is available in Danone’s Registration Document. References 4.8 Internally developed statements to the relevant pages are indicated in the GRI index of mission or values, codes published on pages 62 and 70 of this report. of conduct, and principles relevant to economic, environmental, and social performance and the status of their implementation The Danone Way initiative has been in place since 2001 to address the goal of managing the group’s relations and impacts with regard to its stakeholders, both up and downstream (see pages 41 to 45 of the current report) including policies and criteria pertaining to environmental and social performance, governance, health and nutrition policy, etc. This approach makes it possible to measure the implementation of policies and performance criteria in all group subsidiaries every year (see pages 41 to 45 of the current report, Danone Way results). Many other initiatives and processes have been implemented in the areas of environmental and social policy and supplier relations. To learn more about these initiatives, see the chapters on the performance indicators relative to the environment (page 102), human rights (page 153), social policy (page 134), and supplier management (page 46). Danone has been formally defining its missions, values and internal codes of conduct for a number of years in various documents. For more details, see the chapter titled “Reference texts and key dates” on page 56 of the current report. Danone Sustainability Report 2012 87 Performance Indicators Governance, Commitments and Dialogue Commitments to external initiatives 4.11 4.12 Explanation of whether and how the Externally developed economic, precautionary approach or principle environmental, and social charters, is addressed by the organization principles, or other initiatives to which the organization subscribes Protecting the consumer means applying the principle or endorses of “Due Diligence” which, at Danone, relies on a team of in-house scientific experts and an external network Danone’s commitments, as defined in its Business of international experts. Conduct Policy, are based on certain principles referenced in the following international texts: The company’s Food Safety Management Systems, based • the Universal Declaration of Human Rights; on international standard ISO 22000, ensure the • the international agreements of the International Labor implementation of measures for managing risks in this area Organization; across all businesses. • the guiding principles defined by the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development for A periodic review of risks involved in the key processes of multinational companies; most subsidiaries also ensures that proper precautions are • the UN Global Compact on human rights, labor rights, taken to reduce the impact and/or the probability of risks environmental protection and anti-corruption. identified. This issue is also addressed in the framework of indicator PR1 pertaining to consumer health and safety. Danone joined the United Nations Global Compact in 2003 and reaffirmed its commitment in 2009. In addition, the 7 Fundamental Social Principles defined by the agreements of the International Labor Organization (ILO) were integrated into the Danone – IUF agreements in 2005. 88 Danone Sustainability Report 2012 Danone wished to extend these Fundamental Social Principles beyond its subsidiaries to all its suppliers through implementation of its RESPECT program. Since 2009, 4.13 Memberships in associations (such as this policy has been expanded to include Environmental industry associations) and/or national/ and Ethical Principles to which all suppliers must commit. international advocacy organizations These commitments are anchored in Danone’s values and in Danone’s policy is of membership in all legally constituted the foundations of the Danone Way approach. They apply to and recognized, sector-specific or national professional all employees of every company controlled by Danone associations representing the food industry. The group throughout the world. Danone is committed to promoting encourages its managers to actively take part in the work of these principles in all the companies in which it holds shares. these associations at both local and central level. Danone or its subsidiaries are members of all national food industry associations in European Union countries where the group has operations, as well as of Food & Drink Europe which represents the industry at EU level. Danone is a member of more than 100 associations of this type. Danone Sustainability Report 2012 89 Performance Indicators Governance, Commitments and Dialogue Stakeholders engagement 4.14 4.15 List of stakeholder groups engaged Basis for identifying and selecting by the organization; examples of stakeholders with which to dialogue stakeholders groups are: communities, civil society, customers, shareholders Danone has been developing specific dialogue tools for and providers of capital, suppliers, and several years to support subsidiaries in their interactions employees, other workers and their with the various stakeholders at the local level: the trade unions “stakeholders mapping” tool allows to identify the company’s stakeholders, to analyze the issues and The Danone Way approach launched in 2001 was stakeholder expectations, and to define communication implemented to respond to the goal of dialogue and priorities. It also describes best practices in place in other recognition of impacts with the company’s stakeholders, countries where the group does business. All subsidiaries which were defined at the start of the approach: consumers, are invited to carry out a “stakeholders mapping” every suppliers, environment, employees, shareholders, local year; this is part of the Danone Way evaluation (Shared communities (scientific, neighborhood, representatives of value creation through community involvement). public authorities and non-governmental organizations). The annual evaluation carried out by each subsidiary on the In addition, a Public Affairs kit was distributed to Danone Way themes allows the group to ensure that correspondents in the subsidiaries in January 2012. stakeholders are truly integrated into the various issues This tool presents an explanatory overview of the field of (nutrition-health, employees, environment, local action of a Danone Public Affairs correspondent. It defines communities, etc.). the expected practices in communicating with stakeholders (elected officials, public authorities, opinion leaders, etc) In addition, for several years Danone has been committed and provides practical guidelines for supporting to dialoguing with organizations of civil society. The goal is correspondents in their day-to-day activity. not only to develop active listening with regard to the changing situations and expectations of various The kit can thus be used to make an inventory of local stakeholders, but also to commit the company to issues, and to qualify those issues with a view to prioritizing partnership or co-development processes with these players, them, identifying the players involved and mapping them as illustrated by numerous initiatives and projects developed based on their position and influence, and finally in partnership with NGOs, with the support of funds determining the best watch mode for monitoring changes established by Danone (The Danone Ecosystem Fund, the to these issues and the players’ positions. danone.communities Fund and the Livelihoods Fund). (To learn more about Danone’s stakeholder policy, see the section about stakeholders strategy on pages 92 to 102 of the 2011 Sustainability Report). 90 Danone Sustainability Report 2012 Danone also has the goal of encouraging all subsidiaries to integrate stakeholders into their own strategic thinking. To achieve this, methodological tools for strategic thinking 4.16 Approaches to stakeholders have been developed since 2010-2011 to firmly include engagement, including frequency of stakeholders’ expectations in subsidiaries’ medium-term engagement by type and by strategic planning at local level. These methodological stakeholder group materials are integrated into the group’s training programs for the Executive Committees and expert working teams: The Danone approach is to foster dialogue with Sustainability Land and Credibility Land, which aim to stakeholders at subsidiary level to remain close to define a nutrition and health strategy for the subsidiaries local issues. based on in-depth analysis of its stakeholders (consumers, public agencies, NGOs, employees, etc). This dialogue may take various forms in each subsidiary (regular “Advisory board” meetings on nutrition-health topics, for example), and the frequency depend on local situations.The group does not centrally consolidate all the actions carried out by its subsidiaries in this area. However, at group level, regular meetings (5 times per year) are held with certain organizations such as representatives of the IUF (International Union of Food workers) on social issues or with “Advisory board” consisting of experts on environmental issues. Danone Sustainability Report 2012 91 Performance Indicators Governance, Commitments and Dialogue Stakeholders engagement 4.17 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the organization has responded to those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting Listening to stakeholders is a key component of Danone’s sustainable development strategy, in order to understand the expectations of its customers, consumers, employees, suppliers, scientists, the populations living near its sites, representatives of public authorities and non-governmental organizations. Taking into account stakeholders’ expectations is a foundation of the Danone Way approach initiated in 2001, and is firmly anchored in Danone’s culture and social policy approach. The Danone approach is to foster dialogue with stakeholders at subsidiary level; the group does not centrally consolidate all the actions carried out by its subsidiaries in this area. However, at corporate level, listening to stakeholders’ expectations also allows the company to progress in understanding key shared concerns and to launch initiatives in response. • in 2011, for example, Danone signed an agreement with the IUF on health, safety, working conditions and stress (see page 31 of the current report); along these same lines, Danone also implements the Dan’Cares program that aims to improve healthcare cover (see page 32 of the current report); • since 2010, Danone organized its Nature strategic thinking with an external expert panel, opinion leaders and NGO (Nature Stakeholders Board) to set a long time course. Organizations such as WWF, IUCN, Ramsar convention, Rainforest Alliance, UNEP, Greenpeace, Forum for the Future, Ethicity, etc, are associated to those consultations, at subsidiaries or group level. For example in 2012, the group paper/carboard packaging policy was co-developped with the benchmark NGO Rainforest Alliance. 92 Danone Sustainability Report 2012 Danone Sustainability Report 2012 93 Performance Indicators ECONOMIC Performance Performance Indicators EconomIC ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE 95 MARKET PRESENCE 97 INDIRECT EconomiC IMPACT 98 94 Danone Sustainability Report 2012 EconomiC PERFORMANCE EC1 Direct economic value generated The group’s economic objectives and published market data: • Net sales, Operating Income/Net sales, Operating Free and distributed, including revenues, Cash Flow (OFCF) for the manager’s scope of operating costs, employee responsibility; compensation, donations and other • Free Cash Flow (FCF) for the Danone scope. community investments, retained earnings, and payments to capital Danone’s social objectives, which are divided into providers and governments three areas: • the Social Fundamentals : Safety at work including For data pertaining to directly created economic value, accident frequency rate and implementation of specific distributed economic vaue and non-distributed economic action plans for the subsidiaries identified by the group’s value, see the Registration Document, chapter 4. Safety Committee ; or implementation of the Dan’Cares project aiming to improve welfare protection for Danone Regarding economic value created and distributed for employees ; or any Health@Work project; or Diversity employee compensation specifically, Danone adopted a projects providing openings for different socio-cultural bonus system that integrates social performance in 2008. profiles in recruitment processes; or projects to develop closer managerial relationships through the “Danone The social dimension is a powerful element to bring Leadership College” and CODE initiatives ; or meaning and commitment to Danone’s employees. For employability development projects with “Workers performance management, the criteria used to evaluate the Academy”; performance of the company’s 1,400 managing executives • the New Danone strategic priorities: since 2008 are based on a three-part bonus system: for the Nature priority: reduction of greenhouse • one third for economic objectives; gas emissions; • one third for social and environmental objectives; for the People priority: talents development plans • one third for individual performance objectives. with “Country Talent Deal”, specific development plan for high-growth areas such as “Fuel The More specifically, in 2012, executive manager’s short-term Growth”, or leadership development plan, and lastly variable compensation was determined based on specific the evaluation and introduction of actions in performance with regard to ten economic, social and con­nection with the Danone Ecosystem Fund. management objectives and calculated using objective, measurable criteria and completed with the supervisor’s Specific individual objectives within the scope of each assessment, in three areas: manager and consistent with the group’s strategy. Danone’s specific approach in this area is based on the short-term variable compensation structure, which is reviewed every year to achieve optimal management of the group’s economic and social strategy. Danone Sustainability Report 2012 95 Performance Indicators ECONOMIC EconomiC PERFORMANCE EC2 Financial implications and other Operating expenditures related to the environment amounted to around 107.7 million euros in 2012. They include 45.1 million euros for waste, water and risks and opportunities for the air management, and for environmental taxes other than organization’s activities due to fees on packaging. This latter expenditure amounted climate change to 51.7 million euros in 2012. At December 31st 2012, 67% of the group’s production sites (Production Sites Environment Scope) had been audited with and external GREEN audit. On these 110 EC3 Coverage of the organization’s sites, 50 underwent a follow-up audit in 2012, and more defined benefits plan obligations than two-thirds of them improved their score compared to their previous audit. Around 170 executives with the status of Director, and who were under the French pension system at December 31, Environmental expenditures and investments 2003, are eligible under certain conditions, notably of In 2012, investments targeting environmental protection seniority and presence, to benefit from a defined benefits amounted to some 51.9 million euros, or around 5% of the pension plan. group’s total capital investments (this represents a 11% increase over 2011). This system involves the payment of a pension, provided the beneficiary is still with the group at the time of The main investment categories are the following : retirement, based on seniority and the most recent salaries. • environmental compliance : waste treatment, wastewater The amount is paid out after deduction of certain pensions treatment, treatment plants, noise measurement, air (corresponding, for a first category of group Directors, to quality, etc. These investments are 58% lower than in the full amount of pension points acquired over the course 2011, building on what had already been accomplished of their careers, and for a second category of group in this area in previous years; Directors, to the full amount of pension points acquired • investments targeting reduction of CO2 emissions through supplemental retirement plans fully paid for by (energy savings, renewable energy use, logistics, ecoDanone) and amounting to a maximum of 65% of the last design of packaging). These investments rose by 23%, salaries. If the employee leaves the group before the age of as reducing Danone's carbon footprint is a priority goal 55, or dies before retiring, s/he loses all rights to this plan, for the group. with the caveat that in case of a layoff after age 55, the benefits from this plan are maintained as long as no further In addition, since its creation in 2010, the Green Capex salaried employment is taken up. This retirement plan was approval process (investments for environmental protection) closed to all new beneficiaries on December 31, 2003. provides financing for projects with high environmental value, but with a return on investment below group standards that would prevent their acceptance under the usual investment approval process. This approach takes into EC4 Significant financial assistance account the number of tons of CO2 reduction achieved by received from government the projects. This indicator is not centrally monitored by Danone. 96 Danone Sustainability Report 2012 MARKET PrEsence ADD EC5 Range of ratios of standard entry EC6 Policy, practices and proportion of level wage compared to local spending on locally-based suppliers minimum wage at significant at significant locations of operation locations of operation This indicator is not centrally monitored by Danone. Minimum salary/Minimum legal salary ratio 2011 (like-for-like 2012 EC7 Procedures for local hiring and basis with 2012) Number Total % Number Total % proportion of senior management of of of of hired from the local community at subsidiemployees subsidiemployees aries aries significant locations of operation Subsidiaries with a “subsidiary minimum wage”/“legal minimum 123 89% 148 94% Danone is a local employer above all with 94.8% of its wage” ratio greater 16,452 managers and directors hired locally, a percentage than 1 down from 2011 owing, in particular, to strong growth in Subsidiaries with a “subsidiary minimum 16 6% 9 3% the total workforce as a result of business development in wage”/”legal minimum wage” ratio equal to 1 certain geographic areas. Subsidiaries with a “subsidiary minimum Danone’s aim is to achieve 80% of local managers in all 0 0% 0 0% wage”/”legal minimum wage” ratio below 1 Executive Committees. At end 2012, 71.9% of directors Subsidiaries to which had been hired locally, representing a reduction compared no legal minimum 17 5% 11 3% wage applies with 2011 for the reasons explained above. Total reported 156 94% 168 95% Total non-reported 27 6% 15 5% Au 31/12 2010 2011 2012 Total Danone 183 100% 183 100% Total Workforce 13,984 15,552 16,452 (Directors and Managers) of which international staff 649 739 850 The basic starting salary is higher than the local minimum % international 4.6% 4.8% 5.2% salary for the large majority of subsidiaries (148), covering % local 95.4% 95.2% 94.8% over 94% of the group’s employees. It is equal to the legal Management Committee Members 879 1,058 1,254 minimum for 9 subsidiaries, i.e. less than 3% of employees. (excluding Executives) There is no legal minimum defined for 11 subsidiaries of which international staff 234 254 353 (3% of employees). % international 26.6% 24.0% 28.1% % local 73.4% 76.0% 71.9% Compared with 2011, there has been an increase in the number of employees with a basic starting salary above the legal minimum, and a drop in the other categories (salary equal to the legal minimum and those working for a subsidiary with no legal minimum salary). Danone Sustainability Report 2012 97 Performance Indicators ECONOMIC INDIRECT EconomiC impact EC08 Development and impact of In addition to donations, the alliance between Fundación Danone and the food banks continues to grow and develop. In 2012, Fundación Danone, together with a infrastructure investments and social investment consultant, elaborated and implemented a services provided primarily for diagnosis that aims to identify needs and improvement public benefit through commercial, opportunities of every food bank, as well as the Food in-kind, or pro bono engagement Banks Networks itself. The diagnosis was held among the 18 food banks all over Argentina and are the basis for Danone is involved into many actions to support common further actions to be put in place in 2013. interest initiatives as part of its mission to “bring health through food to as many people as possible”. More info and key figures: http://redbancosdealimentos.org/ In 2012, sustainable partnerships and initiatives have been http://www.bancodealimentos.org.ar/ maintained, delivering stronger results compared to 2011. http://www.fundaciondanone.org.ar/ The specificity of these initiatives is the high level of cooperation between Danone subsidiaries and local actors, (Nutrition)² The healthy habit program in either non-profit or institutional partners. Argentina deployed by Danone Fundación One of every four kids and adolescents is overweight or In Argentina, focus on food banks obese in Argentina. It has been now five years that and the (Nutrition)² program Fundación Danone works through the (Nutrition)² program the healthy habits program that aims to be part Food banks bonds in Argentina of the solution with an unbranded platform supported by In Argentina, Danone and the Fundación Danone have subsidiaries. developed, in almost ten years of actions, a strategic partnership with the Food Banks network and (Nutrition)² is a program that innovates in the way to particularly with the Buenos Aires Food bank, the promote and create awareness on healthy lifestyles country’s largest, willing to give a breakthrough from according to its mission: “Educating about health through product donation towards the wider food access concept. food to as many people as possible”, building the local reference and frame on healthy habits, while integrating In 2012: strategic actors. • the food banks delivered 6,800 tons of food; • 1,324 social organizations benefited from the delivery; The result and impact of the program is validated by the • the effort reached 201,408 persons; Center of Studies for Child Nutrition and developed by a • 400 tons of the total amount of food collected social return on investment consultant. In 2012, after one are Danone products donations (from Fresh dairy year of existence, the program successfully reached 81,000 products and Waters divisions). kids and adults. 98 Danone Sustainability Report 2012 In addition to this global achievement, here are several In 2012, the economic climate in Spain has led to an key results: increase of poverty and about 30,000 families with hungry • 40 workshops and nutritional talks for parents, teachers children are estimated in the country. Aware of this reality, and social reference at schools, DNC and community the FESBAL launched a specific campaign called the centers; “Great food collection” in November and December 2012. • 1,000 educational kits delivered; • 20 activations for kids; Danone Dairy Spain involved its employees, suppliers and • 30,000 kids reached by the Musical consumers to take part in this dedicated event to help “Super healthy in the Wonderful World of Food”; collect food. Jointly 5,7 tons of food were donated by • over 10,000 fans on Facebook, special videos produced Danoners and from suppliers, and 50 volunteers have for the YouTube channel; helped collecting food at the point of sales and classifying • 5,200 visits per month to the blog; them afterwards. Danone Dairy Spain also made an • formal alliances with the top 9 nutrition references extraordinary donation of 100 tons of products. Consumers (Argentinean Society of Nutrition, Federation of could get involved as well through the online Gananones Nutrition, etc), Ministry of Education official support, platform: they could donate “points” that were to be Ministry of Health co-manager in activations and in the exchanged for yoghurt units that were destined for the food development of a Physical Manual, member of the banks: over 2 million product units were given through this National initiative “Nutrición 10 Hambre Cero”; initiative. • (Nutrition)² received 5 recognitions last year from Publicity Society, the Government of the city of Buenos Eat Like a Champ in the United Kingdom Aires. Eat Like A Champ (ELAC) is a nutrition education programme managed by Danone Dairy UK for primary Further information is available: schools aimed at helping tackle the growing issue of poor www.fundaciondanone.org.ar nutrition and sedentary lifestyle amongst children. www.nutricionalcuadrado.com.ar Children’s poor nutrition and obesity in the UK is an Juntos Ayudamos el Doble in Spain, important topic with 1 child out of 3 children being in co-creation with the Spanish Federation overweight and 1 child out of 6 being obese. of food banks Juntos Ayudamos el Doble (Together we double help), is The program was piloted in a few London schools in 2010, the social innovation program jointly developed by the then optimised and rolled out in over 50 London classes in Spanish Federation of food banks (FESBAL) and Danone 2011. It has a “triple win” objective: Dairy Spain in which Danone commits itself to be a • make nutrition exciting for kids by inspiring them to strategic partner helping the food banks with regular adopt the healthy choices of famous champions they product donations. Beyond making occasional donations of admire; surplus product, Danone Dairy Spain has analyzed • maintain high employee engagement in Danone UK together with the food bank, its cold storage capacity and through a large volunteering scheme; distribution schedules, to match the donation with their • build Danone Dairy UK’s corporate reputation on needs treating the food bank as another client for the health and nutrition in the UK. company. By doing so, it helps to prevent irregularities, the potential problems of food supply and uncertainty over how much food is available on weekly base to distribute to people most in need. Danone Sustainability Report 2012 99 Performance Indicators ECONOMIC INDIRECT EconomiC impact In 2012, the programme extended to over 500 classes all Restos du Cœur in France: over the UK including England, Scotland, Wales and a real partnership for 4 years! Northern Ireland, engaging 15,000 children. 50 London Since 2009, Danone has had a highly successful teachers were trained on nutrition, and academic research partnership with Restos du Cœur (in France) done in partnership with School Food Trust in 26 London with three major focus areas. schools showed positive and sustainable impact on children’s diet, with shifts towards healthier food choices The first is participation in meal collection: 1,250 after having completed the “Eat Like A Champ” lessons. “Danoners” took part in 2012, helping to collect 1.8 tons of food in Carrefour and Carrefour Market stores, The overall program, as well as its implementation, is built or the equivalent of 1.8 million meals for Restos du Cœur around key partnerships: (+8% compared with 2011). • with the British Nutrition Foundation, which helped to design 6 fun, engaging and interactive lessons that are One million additional meals were co-financed by linked to the primary school curriculum; Danone and Carrefour after a promotional operation in • with Danone Dairy UK employees: in 2012, 55% of stores (on the basis of 4 products bought = 1 free meal Danoners volunteered in class to help teachers deliver the for the Restos du Cœur ). An accompanying social Eat Like A Champ lessons and activities; network campaign made it possible to donate an additional • with inspiring role models for the children, in this 28,000 meals to Restos du Cœur , via the participation of case street dance sensation Diversity, who are the web users (on Facebook, Twitter and other blogs). ambassadors of the campaign and were the winners of the TV show “Britain’s Got Talent” in 2009. Lastly, thanks to skills sponsorship, the partnership’s third facet, 60 Restos du Cœur volunteers received nutrition Eat Like A Champ won the “Business in The training from Danone professionals in 2012. Community” Big Tick (awarded by HRH Prince Charles), and was recognised as a best practice by the European Health Platform. The programme also supports the Ministry of Health campaign Change 4 Life to tackle obesity issues in the country. 2013 ambitions are even grander, as Danone Dairy UK aims to reach 1,000 classes with Eat Like A Champ , and has started linking this programme with the Danone Nations Cup, the interbational soccer competition dedicated to children organized by Danone. The ambition in the longer term is to roll-out Eat Like A Champ in one third of UK primary schools and maximise the amount of children both participating in Eat Like A Champ and playing in the Danone Nations Cup, to really inspire children to eat well and stay active. 100 Danone Sustainability Report 2012 EC9 Understanding and description In addition to employment issues, the impacts of fundsupported activities contribute to the development of sustainable farming practices, services to parents and the of economic impacts elderly, nutrition education for improved health and recycling. For example, programs in the dairy and fruit Danone has always taken numerous initiatives in its sectors contribute to the development of small farmers subsidiaries to support the economic, social and through improvement or acquisition of new skills, technical environmental developments of the regions where the solutions, knowledge sharing, service between milk group has operations. producers and access to credit. Support provided for waste pickers working in waste disposal sites is also essential: Aiming to strike the right balance between social firstly, to define a recycling chain so that the created wealth commitment and Danone’s economic performance is part is distributed, by organizing collection and sorting of its dual economic and social project and involves: operations in healthier and safer conditions; and secondly, • knowing the local players and developing sustainable to offer fair compensation for this activity, which is essential relationships with them through joint projects; to the supply of recyclable materials, while ensuring • participating in the economic and social development children are not involved in it. of labor markets, particularly through business relationships; Additional programs are developed with nursing aides and • addressing health and nutrition issues through eating other professionals specializing in elderly patient and infant habits. care. For example, a range of nutrition-based services contributes to elderly people’s independence or to child For 3 years now, the group has been involved in an development while creating a close relationship with ambitious, innovative approach based on local projects consumers. which help to maximize its social impact through inclusive economy partnerships. Lastly, adjustment to new regions and populations facing specific problems of accessibility and employability Within the framework defined by the Danone generates new local distribution models and channels for Ecosystem Fund, endowed with 100 million euros in people with low buying power or living in areas difficult to 2009, 35 subsidiaries (representing 54% of the group’s reach via traditional channels. The sales teams sometimes sales) are committed alongside 31 partners – primarily come from very underprivileged or isolated communities NGOs – in the co-development of one or more projects, and are supported via training programs tailored to these both in “mature” countries (France, Spain, Ireland, the situations. USA, Japan, etc) and “emerging” countries (Brazil, India, Indonesia, Mexico, etc). These 43 projects represent an investment of 33.7 million euros and aim to create or consolidate over 51,000 jobs. The Fund’s projects contribute to developing employment, employability and access to micro-entrepreneur status for people working with Danone across its entire value chain. Women’s access to work is also one of the fund’s goals. Danone Sustainability Report 2012 101 PERFORMANCE Performance Indicators ENVIRONMENTAL MatERIALS 105 ENERGY 106 WATER 110 BiodiversitY 113 Emissions, effluents and waste 119 ProduCts AND services 125 Compliance with legislation 127 Transport 127 OVERALL 130 Governance 132 102 Danone Sustainability Report 2012 Chart of 2012 results 2012 Performance Cumulative Performance CARBON Reduce CO2e intensity 35.2% reduction Intensity (g eq. CO2/kg product) Baseline end 2007 Danone Direct Responsibility scope Reduce energy consumption in factories 3.6% reduction 46.5% reduction Intensity (kWh/T product) Baseline 2000 Support Livelihoods Fund projects 6 projects to restore ecosystems and fix carbon (India, Indonesia, Kenya, Senegal) WATER Measure the water footprint Quantis WFP tool development Waste Water quality in factories 19.6% reduction COD/kg of product Reduce water consumption in factories 3.1% reduction 43.1% reduction Process water intensity (M3/T product) Baseline 2000 Protect natural Mineral Water SPRING tool 100% of current sites catchment areas (collaboration with RAMSAR) PACKAGING Develop the use of recycled materials 9% rPET Waters division % rPET Waters division 73% rPaper % rPaper (2011 data) Experiment with bio-sourced materials Activia, Actimel, Volvic & Stonyfield in 7 countries Source 100% recycled paper or virgin paper 73% Paper and Forest Footprint from responsibly managed forests by 2020, policy published with preference for FSC AGRICULTURE FaRM systemic audit of environmental 85% coverage practices, food safety and quality % coverage Build and implement a Sustainable Tool designed (RISE) Farming Evaluation Tool Source 100% Palm Oil to RSPO Standard 40% certified palm oil by end 2014 Physically segregated RSPO standard The “2012 Performance” column describes the outputs of the actions that were implemented or initiated in 2012. The “Cumulative Performance” column describes the outputs of the actions lead since several years. Depending on the criteria, it is presented following the most relevant perspective(s). Danone Sustainability Report 2012 103 Performance Indicators ENVIRONMENTAL Environmental indicator Number of ISO 14001 certified sites coverage rate Danone bases its environmental management policy The table below provides information relative to Danone on the international ISO 14001 standard. ISO 14001 sites’ environmental data coverage rate at December 31, certification is a prerequisite set by the group for 2011 and 2012 (marked “Production sites environment achieving the highest performance level in GREEN scope” for concerned indicators). environmental risk assessment audits (see following paragraph). At 31/12 2011 2012 Total number of sites 163 194 The following table provides data relative to Danone sites’ Total number of sites reporting data 161 164 ISO 14001 certification at December 31, 2011 and 2012 Coverage (% of sites) 99% 85% (Production sites environment scope): At 31/12 2011 2012 The 2012 coverage rate is impacted by the fact that recently Total number of sites reporting data in 2012 161 √ 164 acquired companies (Unimilk, Wockhardt) were not Total number of ISO 14001-certified sites 94 91 included in the total number of sites in 2011, but are Percentage of ISO 14001-certified sites 58% 55% included in 2012 even though they did not report any data. √ 2012 figures verified in the 2012 Registration Document. For 2012 data, the coverage rate represents more than 92% of the group’s net sales. GREEN Program (Global Risk Evaluation for Environment) In the following tables, variations compared with 2011 are calculated on a like-for-like basis, in other words, the scope The group defined environmental production standards for of production sites present during both financial years its factories (“Green Plants Program”) in 1995, and began (excluding production sites acquired or launched in 2012 using internal audits to check compliance with these and production sites sold or shut down in 2012). standards in 1997. In 2006 the group began worldwide deployment of its GREEN project, a tool for monitoring the main environmental risks relating to the production sites (accident risks, image risks and risks of non-compliance with environmental regulations). As of December 31, 2012, 67% of the group’s production sites (Production sites environment scope) had received an external GREEN audit. Of these 110 sites, 50 underwent a follow-up audit in 2012, and more than two-thirds of them improved their score compared to their previous audit. 104 Danone Sustainability Report 2012 Materials EN1 Materials used by weight or volume A number of measures are therefore taken to use them more efficiently: • water: In the Waters division, the sites measure all water consumed for every use (production, cleaning, etc.) to The table below presents data relative to Danone sites’ identify the items generating losses and define production at December 31, 2011 and 2012 (Production appropriate action plans for reducing these losses. The sites environment scope): sites have annual goals for reducing their water losses, and their performance and rankings are published 2011-2012 quarterly by the division. More than 10 billion liters have Thousands variation on of metric tons 2011 2012 a like-for-like been saved in this way since 2008 (equivalent to basis 10,000,000 metric tons); Total production 27,062 √ 28,214 3.4% • liquid milk, sugar, fruit: raw material losses in the Fresh √ 2 012 figures verified in the 2012 Registration Document. dairy products division are monitored daily at the production sites, with results consolidated monthly at Total production in thousands of metric tons the level of the subsidiaries and the division for 2011 2012 comparison with the monthly goals included in the 30,000 27,062 28,214 budget process; • packaging materials: Danone’s packaging development EN1 complies with eco-design principles. The 2002 Production 20,000 guidelines will be further strengthened in 2013 and rolled out to all divisions. 10,000 Total production in metric tons increased by 3.4% on a comparable basis in 2011/2012 due in particular to increased production by the Waters and Baby nutrition divisions. Energie thermique (avec vapeur) Electricité 180 163.3 158.9 160 The main 140 materials used in Danone products are: EN4 Energie • water; 120 • liquid 100 milk and milk powder; 80 • packaging materials (plastic, cardboard, etc.); 60 • sugar;40 • fruit.20 The amount0 of raw 2009 materials consumed per 2010 metric ton of finished product is one of the primary criteria for industrial performance, as raw materials represent a large share of group products’ cost structure. 2.4 2010 2009 2.2 2.0 EN8 1.8 Consommation eau Danone Sustainability Report 2012 105 1.6 Performance Indicators ENVIRONMENTAL MatERIALS EnergY EN2 Percentage of materials used EN3 Direct energy consumption that are recycled input materials by primary energy source More than a third of the group’s primary and The table below presents data relative to Danone sites’ secondary packaging is made of recycled materials, thermal energy consumption at December 31, 2011 and including 73% of boxes (2012 analysis on the basis of 2011 2012 (Production sites environment scope): volumes). MWh 2011 2012 Regarding plastic packaging specifically, the group aims to Natural gas 1,495,749 1,617,411 increase the proportion of recycled PET (polyethylene Fuel oil 232,340 114,025 terephthalate) (rPET) used in its bottles. Several brands in Heating oil 143,990 129,008 the Waters division, including Volvic, Evian and Bonafont Butane/propane 66,147 97,462 are already using rPET. At end-2012, the portion of rPET Coal 203,383 160,528 was 9% across the whole division. For Bonafont, the share Other sources 0 9,704 of rPET used in 2012 was 50%. Direct energy consumption 2,141,609 2,128,138 Renewable thermal energy 23,636 85,748 (produced on site) Waters Division 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Purchased steam 118,327 123,046 % rPET (g rPET/g PET) 4% 8% 10% 10% 9% Purchased cold 0 0 Thermal energy consumption The percentage of rPET for the division decrease from 10% 2,283,572 2,336,932 (with steam) in 2011 to 9% in 2012. The reason is an unfavorable mix Intensity of thermal energy consumption (in kWh/metric ton 84.4 82.8 effect in the division: subsidiaries for which volumes have of product) less progressed are the subsidiaries with a high percentage of rPET. Total thermal energy consumption rose 2.3% whereas the group’s total production increased 4.3%. Thermal energy Despite limited availability of recycled PET due to the level intensity therefore dropped from 84.4 kWh/metric ton of investment needed to create a reliable supply chain of product in 2011 to 82.8 kWh/ton of product in 2012. which is being progressively implemented – Danone succeeded in maintaining its average rate of recycled PET Half of the increase in total thermal energy between 2011 use in 2012, with a long-term goal of achieving a rate of and 2012 comes from renewable thermal energies. For 25% for subsidiaries in the Waters division. example, after a year in operation, the biomass boiler installed at the Poços de Caldas plant in Brazil has generated over 68,000 MWh of thermal energy, with a corresponding reduction in the site’s fossil energy (fuel oil) consumption. At the Wexford site in Ireland, a biomass boiler was also installed at the end of 2012 to reduce the site’s fossil energy requirements (see indicator EN6). 106 Danone Sustainability Report 2012 mix evolution 0.0 -8 effect 7.4 2000 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Measurement methodology evolution +18 +0.1 2012 Scope 304.4gr 214.9gr CO2/kg CO2/kg 100 2.5 2.22 1.95 87.4 87.9 2.0 1.84 90 85.8 86.1 1.67 84.1 1.48 TOTAL 82,. WATER 80.6 1.5 VALORIZED 1.32 1.31 1.27 80 WASTE 1.0 70 The graph below shows changes to the intensity of thermal 64.3 On0.5a like-for-like basis, the intensity of energy consumption energy 60 consumption at the production sites since 2000, for (energy0.0 1.40 consumption per ton of product) was reduced by 2000 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 the reporting scope of each of the years concerned. Thermal 3.6% 1.38 from 2011 to 2012. This improvement is primarily 50 1.36 energy consumption 2000 2006intensity 2007 dropped 2008 200951% over2011 2010 the 2012 due to the deployment of energy management best 1.34 2000-2012 period. practices 1.32 in 1.31all the divisions -0.7% (see the ADD EN5 indicator for -2.4% more 1.30 details) resulting in productivity gains for 3.8%, with 1.28 +0.01% 1.27 a negative 1.26 mix effect for 0.2% (increased production in the Intensity of thermal energy consumption in the production plants (in kWh/metric ton of product) Baby 1.24 nutrition division sites). 1.22 200 100 1.20 169.3 The graph Total below water Productivityin the Mix effect changes presents energy87.4 Change intensity Total 87.9 90 consumption on a on a 85.8of reporting 86.1 water 130.6 132.5 between 2011 intensity 2011 and 2012 80.6basis 84.1 like-for-likeat the production like-for-like 82,. basis sites: scope consumption intensity THERMAL VALORIZED 108.6 ENERGYs 80 2012 WASTE 93.7 90.0 100 84.4 82.8 Intensity 70 of total energy consumption 64.3 (in kWh/metric ton of product) 60 160 158 0 50 156 2000 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2000 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 154 151.6 +0.2% -3.8% 152 150 EN4 148 +0.6% 147.1 146 144 Indirect energy consumption 300 142 200 by primary 275.0 source 140 169.3 Total Mix effect Productivity Change of Total 226.1 energy on a on a reporting energy 218.2 consumption 130.6 like-for-like 132.5 like-for-like scope consumption 186.2 intensity basis basis intensity THERMAL table below presents the energy The 200 consumption 163.3 158.9 151.6 147.1 of the TOTAL ENERGY 2011 108.6 2012 ENERGYs 93.7 group’s production sites at December 31, 2011 and 2012 100 90.0 84.4 82.8 (Production 100 sites environment scope): The graph below presents changes in the total energy consumption intensity at the production sites since 2000, 2011-2012 for the reporting scope of each of the years concerned. Total 0 variation on 0 MWh 2000 2006 200720112008 2009 2012 2010 a2011 2012 like-for-like energy consumption 2000 2006 intensity 2007 dropped 2008 2009 by 46.5% 2010 2011over 2012the basis 2000-2012 period. Thermal energy consumption 2,283,572 2,336,932 (with steam) Total energy consumption intensity in the production Electricity 1,819,939 1,814,245 plants (in kWh/metric ton of product) including electricity 300 275.0 specifically generated from 91,271 72,249 226.1 100% 218.2 100 renewable 90 sources 84 200 186.2 TOTAL 90 81 81 163.3 ENERGY 158.9 Total80energy 78 4,103,511 √ 4,151,177 75 75 -0.4% Profil p127 151.6 147.1 67 65 66 67 68 70 of energy Intensity consumption 60 (in kWh/ 151.6 147.1 -3.6% 100 metric 50 ton of product) √ 201240figures verified in the 2012 Registration Document. 30 0 20 2000 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 10 0 Domaine Domaine Domaine Total Économique Environnemental Social Score minimum DJSI Monde Score Danone Score maximum DJSI Monde Danone Sustainability Report 2012 107 Poids en g 36 100 Performance Indicators ENVIRONMENTAL ENergY ADD EN5 Energy saved due to conservation In the Fresh dairy products division, energy training courses known as “Energy Campuses” continue to bring energy experts into play to support and efficiency improvements implementation of best practices at all production sites. Seven one-week sessions were organized in 2012 in the Two main approaches have served to improve energy various geographic regions where Fresh dairy products management: plants are located. At each meeting, the host site was • optimizing energy production at the plants. For audited and an action plan was developed. This process, example, in the Fresh dairy products division, several applied in a spirit of collaboration and cross-fertilization, sites have cogeneration facilities in order to produce helped connect the best practices shared through the electricity and heat from a single energy source, thus group network to concrete efforts for improvement improving the plant’s energy performance. With on the ground. cogeneration, up to 90% of energy can be recovered, compared with 40% to 55% for traditional systems; • optimizing energy use. For example, in March 2012, the Baby nutrition division installed a new spray dryer at its Macroom plant in Ireland. Thanks to a new air induction process and improved energy recovery, the dryer is more efficient than the previous one and is powered by natural gas rather than fuel oil. It cuts costs by 1.3 million euros per year and reduces annual CO2 emissions by 23,500 metric tons. Sharing best practices and fostering emulation between plants strengthened this improvement process in 2012. In the Waters division, the WattWatcher tool deployed at all the sites helps to define performance objectives adapted to each plant. From 2008 to 2012, this tool reduced the division’s energy intensity by 18%, saving 40 million euros on energy expenditures and preventing the emission of 250,000 tons of CO2 over the period. The goal is to maintain this effort in the coming years. 108 Danone Sustainability Report 2012 ADD EN6 Initiatives to provide energy• the Baby nutrition division site in Wexford, Ireland invested 3.8 million euros in a wbiomass boiler in 2012 that saves 9,500 metric tons of CO2 each year and efficient or renewable energy reduces annual fossil fuel costs by 750,000 euros. based products and services, and This project should also support the development reductions in energy requirements of a local FSC (Forest Stewardship Council) certified as a result of these initiatives wood industry and the creation of 65 indirect jobs in the upstream segment. It was supported by the Danone Cogeneration Ecosystem Fund and won the award for Best Nature Several sites chose to install cogeneration facilities in Project in 2012. order to produce electricity and heat from a single energy source and improve plants’ energy performance. With Purchase of electricity specifically generated cogeneration, up to 90% of energy can be recovered, from 100% renewable sources compared with 40% to 55% for traditional systems. Every subsidiary is responsible for choosing its energy mix. At the Bierun plant in Poland (Fresh dairy products In 2012, eight industrial sites purchased electricity from division), this practice prevents the emission of some 100% renewable sources (wind power, hydro power, etc.). 5,400 metric tons of CO2 each year. The Ochsenfurt plant This represents 4% of the group’s total electricity purchases. in Germany (Fresh dairy products division) reduced its annual CO2 emissions by 7% with this technology. Thermal energy from renewable sources ADD EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy Danone is experimenting with projects for the production consumption and reductions and use of renewable energies, in particular: achieved • in Indonesia, where geological conditions make it possible to capture natural geothermal energy. The See indicator EN6. Brastagi plant is now supplied by this renewable energy source, which prevents emission of some 13,000 metric tons equivalent of CO2 each year; • in Brazil at the Poços de Caldas plant, where a biomass boiler was launched in August 2011 to replace the fuel oil used in heat production. This project is based on renewable biomass available in large quantities. It uses natural “wood energy” resources that are certified sustainable, and should prevent emission of 18,300 metric tons of CO2 each year. Thanks to this use of biomass, the thermal energy used by the plant comes almost exclusively from renewable sources; Danone Sustainability Report 2012 109 600,000 544,767 EN16 C02 Emitions totales 499,400 500,000 400,000 Performance Indicators ENVIRONMENTAL Organic reduction 35.2% 300,000 WATER -13.8 Reduction 2007 action -12.3 plans Product -81.6 and 10.0 geoEmission 2009 2008 graphic factors EN8 mix evolution On 8.0a like-for-like basis, the intensity of water effect consumption Measurement related 6.0 to the production process decreased by methodology evolution 3.1% EN21 Millier Total water withdrawal by source between 5.0 5.1 2011 and 2012. This change is 4.2the+18 result of a tonnes positive 3.0 mix effect for 0.7% (increased +0.1production at 2012 The table below presents the water consumption of the Waters division 304.4gr sites), and of efforts to increase Scope productivity 214.9gr 1.0 group’s production sites at December 31, 2011 and for all divisions CO /kg 2 for 2.4%. CO /kg 2 0.0 2012 (Production sites environment scope): The graph below shows the variation in intensity of total Thousands of m 3 2011 2012 water400 consumption related to the production process 2009 2008 Total water withdrawn 57,330 √ 58,707 between 2011 and 2012: from the surrounding area 238 231 Well water 42,457 43,589 Water consumption intensity related to the Municipal water 11,055 11,862 200 production process (in m3/metric ton of product) River water 3,818 3,256 1.40 EN21 Dechets √ 2012 figures verified in the 2012 Registration Document. 1.38 1.36 1.340 1.32 1.31 -0.7% Of the 58,707 thousands of cubic meters of water 1.30 -2.4% withdrawn, Danone uses: 1.28 +0.01% 1.27 1.26 • 22,996 thousands of cubic meters of water in the compo1.24 sition of its finished products, primarily at its bottling sites 1.22 Réel 2009 Objectif 2009 (compared with 21,978 thousands of cubic meters in 2011); 1.20 Total water Mix effect Productivity Change Total 0 consumption • 35,711 thousands of cubic meters of water for production intensity on a like-for-like on a like-for-like of reporting scope water consumption EN21 Responsabilités Danone processes (compared with 35,352 thousands of cubic -2 2011 basis basis intensity 2012 meters in 2011). -4 The group’s water consumption increased 2.4% between The160graph below indicates the variation in total water 5.0 2011 and 2012, which breaks down to +1.8% from rising consumption -6 158 intensity related to the group’s production quantities of water used for the composition of products, process 156 since 2000, for the reporting scope of each of the 154 -8 7.4 and +0.6% linked to greater quantities of water used in years 152 concerned. The intensity of water consumption 151.6 +0.2% -3.8% production processes. decreased 150 by 43.1% between 2000 and 2012. 148 +0.6% 147.1 146 The table below presents water consumption related to 144 142 production processes at the group’s production sites at Water consumption intensity related to the 140 production process (in m3/metric ton of product) December 31, 2011 and 2012 (Production sites Total Mix effect Productivity Change of Total energy on a on a reporting energy environment scope): consumption like-for-like like-for-like scope consumption 2.5 intensity basis basis intensity 2.22 2011 2012 1.95 2.0 1.84 2011-2012 1.67 1.48 TOTAL variation on WATER Thousands of m 3 2011 2012 1.5 1.32 1.31 1.27 a like-for-like basis 1.0 Water consumption √ 35,711 35,352 0.1% 0.5 in the production process Intensity of water consumption 0.0 related to the production 2000 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 1.31 1.27 -3.1% process (in m3/metric ton of product) √ 2012 figures verified in the 2012 Registration Document. 110 Danone Sustainability Report 2012 100 Best practices in the Fresh dairy products division, In addition, in 2012 the Fresh dairy products division in particular the use of water in cleaning cycles, are worked with Quantis and the Livestock Institute to test a consolidated in the NEPTUNE tool and rolled out water footprint evaluation methodology for upstream to all plants. agriculture in four group subsidiaries in various regions around the world. Within the Waters division, the sites use the WaterWatcher tool to measure all water consumed for every use (production, cleaning, etc.) to identify the items generating losses and define appropriate action plans for reducing these losses. The sites have annual goals for reducing their water losses, as their performance and rankings are published quarterly by the division. More than 10 billion liters have been saved in this way since 2008. Danone continued its water footprint research in 2012, notably with its partner Quantis, as well as by contributing to the development of international (ISO) and European (ENVIFOOD protocol) standards. This approach has served to establish a water footprint evaluation methodology that takes into account: • the inventory of consumptions at each stage of a product’s manufacture (ingredients, packaging, production, packing), and for transport, consumer use and end of life; • local water stress factors (water stress is defined as a deficit of water of satisfactory quality to meet human and environmental needs); • compensatory measures directly related to product formulation (protection policy or CSR program), which are evaluated in the form of water volume credits. This evaluation methodology will be used to identify sensitive zones and methods for reducing impacts across the entire lifecycle of the group’s products, in the Waters division in a first phase. Danone Sustainability Report 2012 111 Performance Indicators ENVIRONMENTAL WATER ADD EN9 Water sources significantly affected In 2011, a new scientific tool (Hydre) was implemented at the Danone Eaux France and Health sites (of the Danone Waters China subsidiary). This tool helps to monitor and by withdrawal of water plan for changes in water quantity and quality throughout a drainage basin by analyzing geological See indicator EN8 for the various sources of water used. and hydrogeological data. In 2012, it was deployed at the sites in Poland and Argentina. The Indonesian subsidiary Of the 59 million cubic meters of water withdrawn, Danone Aqua will be included in the program in the Danone uses some 23 million cubic meters in formulating course of 2013. This subsidiary is also continuing the its finished products (not including production processes), partnership created between Paris VI University and the essentially sourced from the 89 bottling sites. University of Gadjah Mada to improve training for hydrogeologists. The group has set a goal of ensuring the protection of the source area (rainwater catchment), the transition See the programs for protection of biodiversity zones under zone (path taken by the water in the rock layers) and EN11. the emergence area (exit zone for the spring). Additionally, every source area is operated in compliance with rules established by the group, in particular with regard to long-term sustainability of stored volumes. ADD EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused Danone drafted a charter titled “Groundwater protection policy” signed by Franck Riboud in October 2004. This Production plants use water for production line cooling policy defines the group’s commitment to sustainable circuits. This water is reused in almost all cases (open management of groundwater in terms of managing natural cooling circuits are the exception and not the norm). and heritage resources. It restates the core protection For example, in the Baby nutrition division, the Brive-laobjectives and describes in detail the principles of their Gaillarde plant reuses a portion of this water for cleaning application by all group subsidiaries. These application the production lines, and another portion for sterilizing principles are systematically assessed for each spring and by steam, allowing the site to reduce its water consumption give rise to specific action plans. Site evaluation is based on by around 50%. the SPRING tool (Sustainable Protection and Resources managING) which defines management standards for each The production plants also use water for production line source of spring water bottled by the group. This tool has cleaning cycles, which are optimized to reuse the most been deployed in every Waters division site, which have during the pre-cleaning cycles. Investments have been established a national and regional availability map to made at several plants to improve water recuperation, as identify pollution risks and risks of water scarcity, plus was accomplished previously at the Bailleul site in France. priority action zones. In 2012, the Ramsar convention Now, four plants in the Fresh dairy products division have (United Nations international convention for wetland dropped below the threshold of 2 cubic meters of water protection), the IUCN (International Union for consumed per metric ton of product. Conservation of Nature) and Danone launched a recognition process to give this tool benchmark status. 112 Danone Sustainability Report 2012 BiodiversitY EN11 Location and size of land owned, In France, one of the principal approaches is to work together with farmers to promote sustainable agriculture. This involves avoiding the use of pesticides and leased, managed in, or adjacent fertilizers that might infiltrate the water table. to, protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside In this context, APIEME will soon be installing a protected areas biomethanizer in the Evian catchment area, which will ultimately enable farming effluents in the Evian region to The group’s sites are located in very diverse ecosystems and be treated to ensure the spread of natural fertilizers and climates. Among these sites, many benefit from an serve both to protect biodiversity and produce renewable exceptional environment and specific protections; this is energy. In 2011 APIEME initiated a nature inventory true in particular of the Waters division sites, whose program across the entire Evian region with the aim of rainwater catchment areas are being carefully improving knowledge of the region’s biodiversity and managed. Projects initiated several years ago are still developing a conservation action plan. Environmental underway (APIEME initiatives in Evian, CEPIV in Volvic experts and political partners are involved in this two-year and the Lanjaron association in Spain, etc.). diagnosis initiative. Following the first study phase in 2012, APIEME had detailed data of the species and natural In France, Danone continues to implement measures to environments and of the necessary steps to preserve and protect its springs in collaboration with local partners, monitor them. APIEME also created a website: based on a model developed in 1992 with the Association www.apieme-evian.com, to promote its action and raise for the Protection of rainwater catchment for Evian awareness of water protection and biodiversity among local mineral waters (APIEME). This program is now deployed stakeholders. on 100% of the group’s mineral water sources. The association “La Bulle Verte” (the Green Bubble) In September 2008 the Evian spring was added to the list founded in 2010 and uniting the town of Saint-Galmier of wetlands covered by the Ramsar Convention (United (where the Badoit spring is located) and its neighboring Nations program), which aims to ensure sustainable towns, is dedicated to preserving natural spaces and management of these regions that are key to biodiversity. The partners, which include the Chamber of maintaining biodiversity. In Argentina, the Villavicencio Agriculture, ARDAB (association of organic farmers of the site extends into a natural reserve of more than 70,000 Rhône and Loire) and the Loire Brittany water agency, will hectares. Very close to the Andes, the site is home to a now support Bulle Verte in developing an action program wealth of biodiversity and initiatives have been taken to to roll out agricultural methods that are respectful of water ensure the sustainable management of the area and quality. For greater impact, the association has joined forces protection of water resources. Ecotourism and with the Bird Protection League (LPO) in a wildlife environmental awareness projects are developed in the inventory program covering the 40 square kilometers of the reserve. In 2011, Danone signed an agreement with catchment area. the Wetland Foundation that aims to qualify the Villavicencio site in Argentina as a Ramsar site, similar to what was done for Evian. Danone Sustainability Report 2012 113 Performance Indicators ENVIRONMENTAL BiodiversitY The Association PEPS’S was also founded in 2012 to In addition, rehabilitation program for irrigation protect the catchment area of La Salvetat Mineral Water, infrastructure has been made to minimize the inefficient covering the plant and the five towns in the area. An irrigation utilization. The partners have also actively appropriate action program is being implemented to protect conducted a campaign on system rice intensification for this region of more than 80 square kilometers. water efficiency. Action taken in the Volvic catchment area by CEPIV is at In 2011, at the Longmen site (Guanghzou), in China, a pilot the heart of a European project named Life-SEMEAU, project was launched in collaboration with agronomical which aims to develop a tool to simulate the role of forests institutes, public authorities and communities in order to in water resource quality and quantity. In cooperation with reduce pesticides and fertilizers use by the mandarin local players, the tool is used to define farm and forest farmers from the catchment area. In 2012, a feasibility management plans for the areas concerned, based on study on the four fundamental components (soil, protection of the water resource and local economic biodiversity, governance and socio-economic impact) was development. It can be applied to highland drainage areas carried out with the UICN expertise. This study aims at in Europe, many of which are covered with forest. defining an action plan for the coming years. This study allows the creation of a new project supported by the Danone AQUA has implemented sustainable water Danone Ecosystem Fund. resource management in Klaten to ensure the natural balance. The project is including studies on ground and Finally, in the Fresh dairy products division, the Molay surface water, community economic development and plant in France was designated a Natura 2000 zone in 2009. environmental preservation. Good management of natural aquifer resources requires in-depth knowledge of hydrologic and hydro-geologic EN12 Description of significant impacts functioning. In collaboration with Paris VI and Yogyakarta of activities, products and services universities, Danone Aqua has conducted geological and on biodiversity in protected areas hydro-geological studies and climate monitoring. and areas of high biodiversity value Furthermore, surface water protection has been outside protected areas implemented by piloting good practical farming at small scale area (micro watershed level), monitoring In the Waters division, protection of biodiversity comprehensively water characteristic such as infiltration, is one of the core elements of the strategy for run off, etc. protection of natural water resources The operation of a spring is related to its intrinsic quality. In partnership with CIRAD, a local NGO (Bina Swadaya) The spring must offer excellent geological and natural and Danone Ecosystem Fund, Danone AQUA has also protection. The Evian mineral spring, for example, is established Pusur Lestari cooperative which serves farmers protected by a waterproof layer several dozen meters thick in 36 villages along the Pusur watershed to help the with an average renewal period of 20 years. community in improving their quality of life. They provide access to capital, training on agricultural skill and access Each spring is subject to intensive geological research as to market. A tree planting program has been developed in well as environmental studies to identify risk factors in the 3 villages in recharge areas that has been self replicated by area and implement measures to protect natural and rural communities supported by local government of Boyolali resources. Danone relies on local and national legislation sub-district. and on contract agreements to obtain operating rights, which may include restrictions (drilling prohibitions, regulation of polluting activities, etc.). 114 Danone Sustainability Report 2012 Water catchment takes place primarily through drilling within a closed perimeter inaccessible to unauthorized persons. Catchment facilities ensure the hygiene and ADD EN13 Habitats protected or restored consistency of operations and are adapted to the resource’s hydrodynamics. Danone thus makes full use of experts to See indicator EN11 concerning the groundwater ensure the rational and sustainable operation of our springs. protection program. For each site under operation, replacement of the natural resource is the single essential criteria. The group never Livelihoods Fund initiatives withdraw more than what the spring can naturally Based on its successful experience with carbon offset projects produce. launched in partnership with IUCN and the Ramsar Convention on wetlands since 2008, Danone decided to invite other The water is checked for consistent composition through companies to join these initiatives by creating the Livelihoods regular sampling by certified independent laboratories. Fund in 2011. Today, seven large companies participate Bottling is carried out under strict hygiene procedures, and alongside Danone in this carbon fund, which invests in major water quality is verified daily. natural ecosystem restoration projects. These projects contribute to combating climate change by fixing large volumes of In the areas of agriculture and milk supply, carbon. The target goal is seven million metric tons of carbon the Fresh dairy products division launched stored over 20 years, for a minimum investment of 30 million the FaRMS initiative with its farmer partners euros. Livelihoods has already invested in six projects covering in 1997 (see indicator EN26 concerning initiatives taken three types of activity in Africa and Asia. to promote sustainable agriculture), to help improve and audit farms’ environmental practices (energy and water Mangrove restoration consumption, use of fertilizer and manure, waste, animal Since 2008, together with the Ramsar Convention and well-being, etc.). This tool encourages farmers to leave IUCN, Danone and then the Livelihoods Fund has hedges and grassy stretches on their land, particularly focused on the ecosystems of mangroves for two main adjacent to streams, to protect biodiversity. reasons: they are among the world’s most highly endangered ecosystems, which threatens vulnerable Danone also supports projects that foster rational use of populations. They feature a wealth of biodiversity, at the pesticides and fertilizers, and more integrated (Bleu Blanc interface between aquatic and land-based ecosystems. These Cœur, etc.) or organic agricultural models («the two cows,» ecosystems provide organic matter, guarantee the necessary Stonyfield farms, etc). biodiversity for the development of fishery resources, and protect associated crops. Lastly, being a considerable producer of biomass, a mangrove ecosystem has high potential for carbon capture. Three projects are under way: • in Senegal, where the NGO Océanium has developed the world’s largest mangrove restoration project in Sine Saloum and in Casamance, covering over 10,000 hectares and involving some 450 villages. With support from the Livelihoods Fund, the key players in this successful project, Océanium and the local communities, pool their capabilities to maintain the local ecosystem and develop sustainable economic activity; Danone Sustainability Report 2012 115 Performance Indicators ENVIRONMENTAL BiodiversitY • in India with a project to restore 6,000 hectares de Rural energy mangrove carried out in collaboration with the NGO Responding to basic needs for energy (heating and lighting) Nature Environment and Wildlife Society (NEWS) is a challenge in emerging countries, particularly in rural and the local communities in the Sundarban region. areas. Inefficient cooking methods generate both significant This area extends close to villages and offers them energy costs and risks of respiratory disease for the local natural protection against climatic events. The project populations. It is also a major cause of deforestation, also serves to maintain sediment surfaces enabling fish creating significant pressure on forests and threatening their resources to redevelop. At the end of 2012, almost 3,000 ecosystems and biodiversity. Optimization projects are hectares had been planted; based on simple, more efficient solutions. Improved • in Indonesia, on the island of Sumatra, where the cooking methods greatly reduce consumption of wood and restoration project launched in 2011 with the NGO therefore avoid emissions of CO2, which can then be Yagasu aims to rebuild the mangrove by planting local converted into carbon credits. species and to restore a functional ecosystem to foster local communities’ economic activity (fish, crab, shrimp, The Livelihoods Fund already invests extensively in honey, etc.). 500 hectares were planted in 2011 and agroforestry and ecosystem restoration projects. At the end another 1,500 hectares of mangrove should be planted of 2012, the Fund launched its first rural energy project in by the end of February 2013 for a final target of 5,000 Kenya, in collaboration with Climate Pal. The project, hectares. named Hifadhi (meaning “keep” in the local language), comprises two complementary components: Agroforestry • distributing 60,000 improved cooking stoves in three Agroforestry projects contribute to the regeneration of soil, districts. These clay stoves set in metal reduce wood pasture lands, forests and crop productions that have lost consumption by 60% compared with traditional stoves, their organic matter content and their fertility. Different which helps to protect the local forests (approximately agronomic protocols are implemented to respond to local 1,200 hectares of forest not burnt) and reduce CO2 conditions, with the aim of restoring the fertility of land emissions (preventing emission of 1.5 million tons); and boosting subsistence and market crop farming • simultaneously implementing an ambitious replanting activities. project: 2.4 millions of trees will be planted with the communities. These trees will provide heating wood, In the Araku Valley in India, the Naandi Foundation has fruit for both consumption and sale, and timber; the been working to support the region’s farmers for ten project will further help to restore degraded soil. years now. Organized in a “Small Tribal Farmers’ Cooperative,” they have launched an initiative to replant Livelihoods Day at the 11th Convention shade trees for coffee crops, with Naandi’s help. The project on biological diversity launched in 2010 with the Livelihoods Fund aims to plant The Livelihoods Fund’s team and a dozen project managers some six million trees, including approximately 50% of attended the 11th Conference of the Parties to the United shade trees for coffee crops. 6,000 hectares have been Nations Convention on biological diversity from October 8 planted to date, and the shade trees should be planted to 20, in Hyderabad, India. The Livelihoods Day, initiated between 2013 and 2014. The project involves ten thousand by the Livelihoods Fund, was organized in collaboration small coffee producers and impacts some 65,000 people. with the World Agroforestry Center (ICRAF), the Sustainable tree upkeep methods will be applied and both International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN), crop yields and quality should improve. In addition, the the Ramsar Convention and the French Fund for the capture of approximately 1.1 million tons of carbon is Global Environment (FFEM). expected over the next 20 years. 116 Danone Sustainability Report 2012 Danone’s action through its brands an innovative partnership with Banco de Bosques for the “Déjà tu Huella” (“Leave your mark”) operation which Zywiec Zdroj : „Po stronie natury” invites consumers to contribute to the creation of the new (“On nature's side”) nature reserve: for each bottle purchased in May and June, “On nature’s side” is a program initiated in 2009 by the Villavicencio promised to protect 1m² of the park. Actions Zywiec Zdroj subsidiary, the Polish mineral water brand, in are also taken to inform the public of the dangers of partnership with the Fundacji Nasza Ziemia (“Foundation deforestation and the importance of biodiversity in the local for our Planet”) and the Regional Directorate of State ecosystem. The results are conclusive with almost 2,200 Forests in Katowice. It has various focuses including: hectares protected, active public participation in the project • planting 3 million native trees in three years in the and increased consumer preference for the Villavicencio Beskides region (where the plant is located); brand. • a grant competition that benefitted 70 local environmental projects meeting community needs (in the areas of planting and protecting trees, protecting water resources, etc.) involving 187 local organizations; ADD EN14 Strategies, current actions, and • the organization of training sessions and national future plans for managing impacts conferences attended by 350 educators, plus on biodiversity 60 educational workshops in which 1,200 children took part. In 2012, Danone commissioned a study from Bio Intelligence Service to estimate the overall soil use related Danonino: “Plant a tree” directly and indirectly to its activities. This study indicated In nine countries where the group has operations, the that indirect activities (upstream agriculture) represent Danonino brand (marketed in France as “Petit Gervais aux more than 98% of the estimated surface area (3 million Fruits”) runs a “Plant a tree” campaign which aims at hectares). educate children to biodiversity. Launched in 2010 in Brazil, then in the United States, Mexico, Argentina and in As the impact of Danone’s activity on biodiversity is four European countries in 2011, this campaign was primarily related to upstream agriculture (soil and water), implemented in 2012 in Russia with vegetable seeds. In a pilot product lifecycle analysis study was launched in Mexico, Brazil and Argentina, children can plant a virtual 2012 by the Danone Brazil subsidiary in the Fresh dairy tree on the brand’s website using a code marked on the products division, with NGO partners IPE (Instituto de packaging. For each code entered, the partner NGO agrees Pesquisas Ecologicas) and IUCN (International Union for to plant a tree in an affected region. Over 43,000 trees had Conservation of Nature), to develop a methodology for been planted by end-2012. evaluating issues relating to biodiversity in Danone’s value chain. Villavicencio: “Deja tu Huella” The Villavicencio site in Argentina supports the NGO Sustainable agriculture Banco de Bosques in a campaign launched in 2011 for the See indicator EN26 concerning initiatives to reduce creation of the “Fidelidad” nature park, a 250,000-hectare environmental impacts of products and services, and area in the Chaco region. With a large subtropical forest and their effects. a wealth of biodiversity, the region is representative of different types of forest, woodlands, grasslands and Water and biodiversity wetlands. The area is also home to endangered species of See indicator EN11 concerning the groundwater protection jaguar and tapir and is under threat from overexploitation program. and deforestation. In 2012 the Villavicencio brand launched Danone Sustainability Report 2012 117 Performance Indicators ENVIRONMENTAL BiodiversitY The group’s Forest Footprint policy Conscious of the critical importance of preserving the planet’s forests (in particular the tropical forests in ADD EN15 Number of IUCN Red List species Indonesia and the Congo and Amazon basins), Danone is and national conservation list committed to a strategy of eliminating the deforestation species with habitats in areas impacts of its supply chain, and to a reforestation program, affected by operations, by level between now and 2020. of extinction risk For this purpose, Danone has created a Forest Footprint The group has no production plants within protected zones policy that aims to: where species on the IUCN red list are found. • evaluate deforestation risks related to the raw materials used directly or indirectly for the group’s activities; Certain regions outside the plants but still necessary to • propose specific policies; the group’s business are subject to increased protection. • implement prioritized actions based on risks and This is true for rainwater catchment areas needed by the associated impacts. 6 major commodities have been Waters division, as many springs are located in nature zones prioritized: paper and cardboard packaging, palm oil, whose preservation is a primary goal. In partnership with soy for animal feed, wood energy, sugar cane, and the Bird Protection League (LPO), Volvic takes part in a bio-sourced raw materials for packaging. program to protect the Red Kite and several species of bat in the Massif Central in France. A dozen nature-loving This policy has been extended to two categories: a specific employees volunteer to devote some of their work time to palm oil policy and a specific paper/cardboard packaging the observation, study and monitoring of nesting policy co-developed with a benchmark NGO (Rainforest populations in connection with the “National Red Kite Alliance). Action Plan”. Volvic received the first Skills Sponsorship award from the French Ministry of Ecology for this Danone makes these policies publicly available on its commitment in 2010. website. http://www.danone.com/en/nos-politiques/positions/ The international CITES report inventories the forest our-policies-positions.html species threatened by deforestation in fragile tropical forests around the world. Under the group’s paper and cardboard packaging procurement policy, all suppliers must strictly comply with international legislation and not include these species in the paper pulp they use. 118 Danone Sustainability Report 2012 Emissions, effluents and waste EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse In 2012 the teams particularly focused on deploying the module co-developed with SAP for measuring the carbon footprint based on lifecycle analysis rules established gas emissions by weight (teq CO2) previously for Danprint. This rollout aims to integrate footprint calculation into subsidiaries’ enterprise resource Greenhouse gas emissions through product planning systems (ERP), and is leading to extensive lifecycle analysis automation of data collection. At end 2012 it was deployed Danone had set the goal in 2008 of reducing its carbon in 25 subsidiaries representing approximately 43% of net footprint by 30% over the 2008-2012 period wherever the sales. group exercises direct responsibility (production sites, packaging and end of life, transport and storage – In 2012 Danone entered the Carbon Disclosure excluding upstream agriculture). The reduction achieved is Leadership Index for the first time since the group began 35.2% (Greenhouse gas scope – Danprint): participating in the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP). The CDP provides an evaluation tool for institutional Kg eq CO2/kg of product Goal Cumulative investors and other stakeholders. In 2012 the index included in Danone’s scope of responsibility 2008-2012 2008-2012 51 firms selected for the quality of data disclosed and perforGroupe Danone -30% -35.2%(*) mance in actions taken to reduce climate change. The highest (*) On a like-for-like basis, excluding effects of change of scope scorers enter the Carbon Disclosure Leadership Index and measuring methodology. (CDLI). Danone’s high score (97/100) illustrates the group’s good internal data management and its understanding of Organic reduction 35.2% climate change issues relevant to it. The score also rewards Danone’s high degree of transparency in its responses. -13.8 Reduction 2007 -12.3 action plans Greenhouse gas emissions by organization Product and -81.6 They are calculated using the methodology described in the geoEmission graphic factors GHG Protocol Corporate Standard (see methodology note). mix evolution effect Measurement methodology The approach chosen by Danone is to integrate all emission evolution +18 sources over which the company has operational control +0.1 2012 into its carbon footprint. All sites are included: production 304.4gr Scope 214.9gr plants, distribution centers, offices, Research and CO2/kg CO2/kg Development centers, etc., as well as vehicles. Direct emissions (scope 1) are emissions arising from Carbon footprint measurement has been carried out since consumption of fuels at the sites (natural gas, heating oil, 2008 using the Danprint tool developed for the subsidiaries coal, etc.), vehicle fuel consumption, and refrigerant leaks. and which has now been deployed throughout the group. With this lifecycle analysis based tool, one can assess the progress in reducing greenhouse gas emissions against goals defined 1.40 in the Nature Plan for all activities in Danone’s 1.38 direct1.36 scope of responsibility (production plants, transport, packaging 1.34 and packaging end of life). 1.32 1.31 -0.7% -2.4% 1.30 1.28 +0.01% 1.27 1.26 1.24 1.22 1.20 Total water Mix effect Productivity Change Total Danone Sustainability Report 2012 119 consumption on a on a of reporting water intensity like-for-like like-for-like scope consumption 2011 basis basis intensity Performance Indicators ENVIRONMENTAL Emissions, effluents and waste Indirect emissions (scope 2) are emissions arising from Carbon footprint at group level (in %) the production of electricity, steam, heat or cold purchased 0 by the group. Milk 6 2 Other raw materials Packaging The table below presents the group’s total greenhouse gas 11 Production emissions (scopes 1 and 2) at December 31, 2012 Logistics (Greenhouse gas scope – GHG): 12 Retail sales Empreinte C 47 Packaging end of life Total emissions of greenhouse gases in Product end of life 2012 T CO2e 14 0 Emissions scope 1 in T CO2e 894,206(*) Milk 7 Emissions scope 2 in T CO2e 847,529 6 2 Other raw materials Total emissions in T CO2e √ 1,741,735 11 Packaging 0 Production √ 2 012 figures verified in the 2012 Registration Document. Total scope: 548g eq. CO2/kg product Logistics Milk 2 (*) Of which vehicle emissions in T CO2e: 371,277 8 Other sales raw materials Empreinte C Danone’s 12 scope of direct responsibility: 47 Retail Packaging Packaging end of life 215g eq.11CO2/kg product Production Product end of life EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse 9 14 7 54 Logistics Retail sales Packaging end of life DAYRI Empreinte c gas emissions by weight (teq CO2) Product end of life Carbon footprint of the Fresh dairy products division (in %) 12 0 4 Milk The group’s total emissions in 2012 (including upstream 2 8 Other raw materials agriculture) are estimated at 17 million metric tons Packaging equivalent CO2. We obtain the following estimates in 11 Production grams equivalent CO2 per kg of product for the group and Logistics Other raw materials Retail sales by division, across the entire lifecycle analysis (direct and 9 7 11 54 Packaging DAYRI Packaging end of life Empreinte c indirect emissions). Production Product end of life Logistics 12 Retail sales 23 4 DAYRI 37 Empreinte c Total scope: 22 1,636g eq. CO2/kg product Other raw materials Danone’s scope7 of direct 11 responsibility: Packaging 567g eq. CO2/kg product Production Logistics Retail sales 23 1 1 Milk DAYRI 3 37 Empreinte c Other raw materials 12 Packaging Production Empreinte c 4 22 Logistics Nutrition Inf Retail sales 13 65 Packaging end of life 1 1 Milk 3 Other raw materials 120 Danone Sustainability Report 2012 12 Packaging 0 Production 0 Empreinte c 4 2 Nutrition Inf Logistics 7 Packaging 10 11 Production Logistics 0 1 1 Empreinte Carbone de Danone, 12 Retail sales 12 47 Milk Milk 2 Packaging end of life 8 Other raw materials 3 Other raw materials Product end of life 12 Packaging Packaging 11 14 Production 15 Production Empreinte carbone Logistics 4 Logistics Nutrition Infantile 7 Retail sales Retail sales 9 DAYRI 54 Packaging end of life Packaging end of life Empreinte13 carbone PLF 65 0 Product end of life Milk 12 2 8 Other raw materials 4 Packaging 11 Production Carbon footprint of the Waters division (in %) Logistics Carbon footprint of the Medical nutrition division (in %) Retail sales 0 9 DAYRI 2 0 54 Packaging end of life Other raw materials Empreinte carbone PLF Milk 7 Product end of life Packaging 6 Other raw materials 11 12 Production Packaging Logistics 13 Production 4 Retail sales Logistics 23 Retail sales Empreinte Carbone DAYRI 43 Nutrition médicale 37 Empreinte14 carbone Packaging end of life Product end of life Other raw materials 7 11 Packaging 22 Production 22 Logistics Retail sales 23 Total scope: 116g eq. CO2/kg product DAYRI scope: 2,408g eq. CO2/kg product Total 1 1 37 Empreinte carbone Danone’s scope of direct responsibility: Milk Danone’s scope of direct responsibility: 95g eq. CO2/kg 3product Other raw materials 795g eq. CO2/kg product 12 22 Packaging Production Empreinte carbone 4 Logistics Nutrition Infantile Retail sales Carbon footprint of the Baby nutrition division (in %) 13 65 Packaging end of life 1 1 Milk 3 Other raw materials 12 Packaging Production Empreinte carbone 4 Logistics Nutrition Infantile 0 Retail sales 2 0 13 65 Packaging end of life Milk 6 Other raw materials Packaging 13 Production Logistics Retail sales Empreinte Carbone de Danone 43 Nutrition médicale Packaging end of life 14 0 Total scope: 8,605g 2 0eq. CO /kg productProduct end of life 2 Milk Danone’s scope 6 of direct responsibility: Other raw materials 1,802g eq. CO222/kg product Packaging 13 Production Logistics Retail sales Empreinte Carbone de Danone 43 Nutrition médicale Packaging end of life 14 Product end of life 22 Danone Sustainability Report 2012 121 Performance Indicators ENVIRONMENTAL Emissions, effluents and waste ADD EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas In the meantime, a high attention has been drawn towards the calculations accuracy: by developing their own internal calculations tool (in line with Danone’s) and sharpening emissions and reductions achieved the scope of the concerned impacts year after year, Agrana Fruit came up with an estimate of 670 kg eq. CO2 per ton Reduction in Danone’s scope of direct of fruit preparation, for a scope of 19 production sites responsibility worldwide. The actions that contribute most strongly to reducing emissions are reducing energy consumption in the Despite integrating each year more sources of GHG production plants, reducing packaging, and optimizing emissions in the calculations (eg: waste water, sugar & supply logistics flows. sweeteners logistic), Agrana’s American and French production sites reached a CFP reduction of 3% between Plants Packaging Logistics 2009 and 2012. End 2007 end 2012 -30.1% -38.2% -35.3% Reduction in the scope of indirect responsibility EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting Beyond its scope of direct responsibility, Danone works substances, by weight together with its suppliers to reduce the carbon footprint throughout the value chain by forming Carbon Pacts The table below indicates emissions of ozone-depleting which include a reduction commitment and an action plan substances by the group’s sites at December 31, 2011 and over three years. These pacts serve as a tool for suppliers 2012 (Production sites environment scope): who want to commit to better managing their emissions with a view to reducing them. This initiative has been Téq. CFC 2011 2012 deployed in the four divisions, with the long-term aim of CFC 0 0 working with all strategic suppliers. In 2012 the Fresh dairy HCFC 0.46 0.45 products and Baby nutrition divisions decided to work in synergy with the largest suppliers common to the two Emissions arising from the use of refrigerants that deplete divisions. They therefore reviewed the Carbon Pacts jointly the ozone layer decreased in 2012. This reduction was with the supplier and prioritized actions on the basis of achieved through the progressive replacement of the volumes where necessary. The aim is to share and exchange refrigerants used. Certain refrigerants have otherwise a best practices between divisions and with the supplier significant impact on the greenhouse gases emissions, whenever possible. particularly HFCs. In the framework of the Consumer Goods Forum, Danone has committed to stop buying Example of a Carbon Pact: Agrana HFC refrigerants for its own fleet by the end of 2015. A Danone Carbon Pact was signed with Agrana Fruit Under a policy known as the BCool initiative, Danone 3 years ago. The scope chosen was the carbon footprint began updating its proprietary refrigerator fleet at points of reduction of the fruit preparation for the American and sale in 2010 to ensure that only natural refrigerants based French affiliates, now widened to all the fruit preparation on CH or CO2 technologies are in use. By also selecting sites worldwide. As a reminder, the fruit part represents in refrigerators with better energy performance and ensuring average 6% of the yogurt carbon footprint. Agrana Fruit their end-of-life recycling, Danone achieves both reduced concentrated their actions on several streams: logistic, gas energy consumption and a reduction in ozone-depleting and electricity consumption on the production sites. emissions. 122 Danone Sustainability Report 2012 EN20 NO, SO and other significant EN22 Total weight of waste by type air emissions, by type and weight and disposal method The table below presents the NOx and SOx emissions The table below presents the quantities of waste generated of the group’s sites at December 31, 2011 and 2012 by the group’s production sites at December 31, 2011 and (Production sites environment scope): 2012 (Production sites environment scope): Téq. NOx SOx 2011 2012 Variation on Tons 2011 2012 a comparable Consumption of NOx 1,051 1,024 scope Consumption of SOx 2,447 1,466 Total quantity of waste generated (excluding 284,102 271,068 -4.9% sludge from treatment EN21 Total water discharge by quality facilities) Ratio of total quantity of waste generated (excluding sludge from 10.5 9.6 -8.0% and destination treatment facilities) per metric ton of product Total quantity of waste eliminated by a specific 248,433 √ 238,339 The table below presents the quantities of COD process discharged after treatment by the group’s production Proportion of waste sites at December 31, 2011 and 2012 (Production sites recovered by a specific 87.4% √ 87.9% process environment scope): √ 2012 figures verified in the 2012 Registration Document Variation Tons 2011 2012 on a like-forlike basis The group consolidates the quantities of waste generated by Final discharge of chemical 4,881 √ 4,085 -16.8% the production sites in four categories: packaging waste, oxygen demand (COD) food waste, other conventional waste and hazardous waste Net COD ratio 0.18 0.14 -19.6% (whey, inert waste and treatment facility sludge are not (kg/metric ton of product) √ 2012 figures verified in the 2012 Registration Document included); the percentage of waste that is recovered is also monitored. The net COD ratio (i.e. after treatment) continued to decrease significantly for a total drop of 19.6% on a Recovery takes place through recycling, reuse of waste, like-for-like basis from 2011 to 2012. This decrease is the composting and waste-to-energy transformation. result of improved measurement at several production sites (inclusion of the successive processes performed, change in the sampling methodology), as well as initiatives to reduce materials loss during production (reduction in rinsing water levels) or to improve performance of on-site wastewater treatment or pre-treatment stations. Danone Sustainability Report 2012 123 -2 -4 5.0 -6 Performance Indicators ENVIRONMENTAL -8 7.4 Emissions, effluents and waste On2.5a like-for-like metric 2.0 ton 2.22 of basis, the ratio of waste generated per 1.95 decreased by 8% between 2011 and product 1.84 1.67 ADD EN25 Identity, size, protected status, TOTAL 2012 primarily because of a better consideration 1.48 of the 1.5 1.32 1.31 1.27 and biodiversity value of water WATER reporting scope and an evolution in the estimation 1.0 bodies and related habitats methods for certain waste categories. The proportion of 0.5 significantly affected by the waste recovered increases slightly to reach 87.9%. The table reporting organization’s below presents 0.0 the change in2008 the proportion of2011 waste2012 2000 2006 2007 2009 2010 discharges of water and runoff recovered at production sites level since 2000, for the reporting scope of each of the years concerned. See indicators EN9, EN11 and EN14 concerning water supply sources and protecting biodiversity. Proportion of waste recovered through a specific chain (in %) 100 90 87.4 87.9 85.8 86.1 84.1 82,. 80.6 VALORIZED 80 WASTE 70 64.3 60 50 2000 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 EN23 Total number and volume of200significant 169.3 spills No significant accidental 130.6 132.5spill occurred in 2012. THERMAL 108.6 ENERGYs 93.7 90.0 100 84.4 82.8 ADD EN24 Weight of transported, imported, exported, 0 2000 or 2006 treated 2007 2008 waste 2009 2010 deemed 2011 2012 hazardous under the terms of the Basel Convention Annex I, II, III and VIII and percentage of transported waste shipped internationally 300 275.0 This indicator does not concern Danone. 226.1 218.2 200 186.2 TOTAL 163.3 158.9 151.6 147.1 ENERGY 100 0 124 Danone Sustainability 2000 Report2007 2006 2012 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 ProduCts AND services EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental Packaging end of life: turning waste into resources Danone seeks to expand collection and recycling of its packaging and aims to: impacts of products and services, • continue to support efforts to increase collection and and extent of impact mitigation recovery rates for recycling in the countries where waste collection is already organized by environmental Danone’s initiatives for reducing the impact agencies; of its packaging • where this activity is not organized, contribute to the collection of materials used in the packaging of Danone Ever lighter bottles products and explore new collection systems. Danone continued efforts to reduce the weight of its bottles in 2012. The initiative launched by the Polish subsidiary Through its Danone Ecosystem Fund, Danone supports Zywiec Zdroj is representative of the group’s policy to work four projects (in Indonesia, Mexico, Argentina and Brazil) on reducing the weight of its packaging. New bottles have that encourage recycling, and in particular rPET which has been developed for the brand’s four main formats. a positive impact on local economies. These projects combine social and environmental goals and allow Danone Weight Weight after to increase its use of rPET while also improving working Format before Variation operation (g) operation (g) conditions and compensation for waste pickers. 1.75l 33 31.5 -4% 1.5l 31.6 28.9 -8.5% The teams from Evian and Badoit also launched a new 0.7l 26 20 -23% initiative in 2012 to step up efforts to recycle glass. 0.5l 16.5 14 -15% A partnership was set up to collect empty glass bottles from client restaurants and the bottles are then stored and transferred to glass treatment plants for recycling. This operation reduces PET quantities used by over 1,000 The project allows Danone to offer a streamlined bottle metric tons per year and cuts annual CO2 emissions by recycling process through an innovative partnership and 2,600 teq CO2. Consumers have also been receptive to the strengthen its relationships with clients. Twenty client commitment made by the Zywiec Zdroj brand. restaurants are already involved and the figure is expected to reach around a hundred in 2013. Use of recycled materials Developing the use of recycled materials has been a major Plant-derived materials strategic objective for the group for several years, whether Three years of experimentation with plant-based plastics through improved collection or optimized packaging end (from sugar cane, sugar cane waste and corn) launched by of life. More than a third of the group’s primary and four brands (Volvic, Actimel, Activia and Stonyfield) have secondary packaging is made of recycled materials. allowed Danone to further its knowledge of environmental The group is strongly committed to a responsible circular implications (thanks to the lifecycle analysis approach), “from the bottle to the bottle” approach and aims to compliance with Danone’s sustainability criteria increase the proportion of recycled PET (rPET) used in its (competition with food, end of life, etc.), business issues bottles. Several brands in the Waters division, including and consumer perception. Volvic, Evian and Bonafont are already using rPET. The average rate of rPET incorporation in the Waters division was 9% in 2011. Danone Sustainability Report 2012 125 Performance Indicators ENVIRONMENTAL ProduCts AND services The group continues its many collaborative initiatives with The FaRMS program experts and stakeholders to improve impact measurement The FaRMS program (Farmers Relationship Management and allow the emergence of third-generation renewable Software) was expanded during 2012 in the Fresh dairy materials, that is, materials that are not in direct products division to include the Chilean subsidiary. In competition with foodstuffs. For instance, Danone 2012, 3,285 farms were visited (out of 6,273) in 15 contributes to the “Bio-Plastics Feedstocks Alliance” with countries, representing coverage of 52%. This program WWF to develop a “sustainability” standard for biosupports producers in implementing best practices that are packaging materials. respectful of the environment, and ensures systematic monitoring of farms on nine key environmental criteria Initiatives taken by Danone to support such as waste management, use of crop protection farmers in developing sustainable agricultural products, and energy and water consumption. practices that respect the environment Although Danone does not generally control its upstream segment and accounts for less than 1% of the global milk collection, the group has long been committed to reducing EN27 Percentage of products sold and its environmental impact: Danone joined the Forum pour their packaging materials that are l’Agriculture Raisonnée et Respectueuse de reclaimed by category l’Environnement (FARRE – forum for sustainable agriculture respectful of the environment) since 1999 See indicator EN2 on the use of recycled PET. and co-founded SAI (Sustainable Agriculture Initiative) in 2002. In 2012 Danone launched a Sustainable Agriculture taskforce to redefine its Sustainable Farming strategy, involving both internal and external stakeholders (Danone Ecosystem Fund, panel of experts, etc.) right from the start of the process. In an initial phase, a farm sustainability evaluation tool (based on RISE method developed by the University of Bern) was selected from a complete benchmark (100 tools assessed) taking into account the four dimensions Health, Economy, Nature and Social. In a second phase, the taskforce transposed the vision into an operational approach that will be applied through concrete projects in six pilot countries in 2013 covering all dairy farming production models (from subsistence to large-scale farms). The initiative aims to foster the adoption of sustainable farming practices in close collaboration with producers and other dairy sector stakeholders, on a local scale. 126 Danone Sustainability Report 2012 Compliance with legislation Transport EN28 Monetary value of significant fines ADD EN 29 Significant environmental impacts and total number of non-monetary from transport of products, other sanctions for non-compliance with merchandise and materials used environmental laws and regulations by the organization for its business, and from transport of personnel Danone paid a total of 93,000 euros in the form of penalties and fines for environmental issues in 2012, Transport is a major source of greenhouse gas emissions. involving three sites. The share of logistics in products’ carbon footprint varies by Division: Fresh Baby Medical dairy Waters Group nutrition nutrition products division division division division Share of logistics in 11% 11% 23% 3% 6% the carbon footprint In 2008 Danone announced the ambitious goal of reducing its carbon footprint by 30% over four years. In 2012 that reduction reached 35.2%. Transport accounts for almost 11% of the group’s carbon footprint and therefore plays an important role in achieving that goal. While raw milk collection is by nature a local activity (within a radius of 79km on average around production sites in France), Danone seeks to develop optimal solutions with its transporters for all of its activities. Transport is largely contracted out, but Danone applies numerous best practices to make it more efficient and reduce its energy intensity. In the Fresh dairy products division, logistics environmental best practices have been communicated since 2011 via the publication of Green Supply Chain Books, now also shared with the Baby nutrition division. In 2012 the Waters division published its first Green Supply Chain Book. Danone Sustainability Report 2012 127 Performance Indicators ENVIRONMENTAL Transport These best practice guide books allow the subsidiaries to In the Fresh dairy products division, products’ lifetime is share their most effective measures and therefore facilitate shorter and use of rail transport is not always possible. their deployment at new sites. Initiatives proposed in this Nonetheless, several countries have successfully way by the Waters and Fresh dairy products divisions aim implemented intermodal projects, such as in the United to improve the subsidiaries’ environmental and operational Kingdom with a return synergy to Blédina in France. In performance for a variety of activities including storage, Canada, 60% of transport to the west coast is done by rail. waste management, and upstream and downstream The Dannon Company and Stonyfield subsidiaries in the transport. For each activity, the subsidiaries are encouraged United States have begun supplying their warehouses by to reflect on three key focus areas to reduce impact from train. transport: • reducing energy intensity (alternative energy sources, Road transport lower consumption, etc.); Raw milk collection by the Fresh dairy products division • optimizing resources (optimizing travel distances and has improved thanks to route optimization software times, streamlining the frequency of trips, etc.); programs now used in Russia, Brazil, Ukraine and Turkey • the quality of achievements and the various players’ to reduce transport distances. A new transport involvement (from the supplier through to the customer). management software program reduces trip times and distances in the United States. Danone continues its Rail transport co-logistics projects throughout the world to pool transport Mass rail transport is a major strategic focus for the Waters resources with other companies and improve truck loading division. In 2012 the “rail/road” ratio out of Evian and rates: in the US with Walmart, in the United Kingdom Volvic plants rose by two points to 56%. This performance with Arla Foods, in Canada with Saputo, in Russia with is the result of various improvements, including: Ferrero, etc. • the success of Project Quicksilver from the Volvic plant to Germany, which increased the “rail/road” ratio from 32% New initiatives were taken in the Waters division to reduce in 2010 to 55% in 2011 and then 80% in 2012. This greenhouse gas emissions caused by road transport. In flagship project, supported by two grants from the Mexico and Argentina, the installation of new distribution European Marco Polo program (initiatives for environcenters in certain remote areas significantly reduces truck mental improvements to transport), goes beyond the transport distances. commitments made to the European Commission with more than ten weekly trains carrying 1,000 metric tons of water leave Volvic for the three German “rail link area” platforms. • the achievements of the Aguas Danone Argentina and Aguas Font Vella y Lanjaron (Spain) subsidiaries which implement intermodal transport programs and considerably reduce road traffic on certain major routes. 128 Danone Sustainability Report 2012 Constantly streamlining and seeking new • Otherwise, in 2012, Danone Eaux France developed solutions actions for finished products pallets optimization after Danone’s teams seek to implement innovative solutions to the new French legislation about transport, allowing reduce carbon emissions relating to transport while 44 tons trucks (versus 40 tons before). For example, improving logistics organization. the number of layers of the Salvetat pallets increased from 4 to 5, allowing to avoir 15% of trucks on In the Fresh dairy products division, several initiatives are the roads. emerging. Back-hauling actions, for example, continue in several subsidiaries to avoid empty truck returns. In Chile, Joint carbon performance promotion a back-hauling partnership created with Walmart allows with transport providers Danone to use this customer’s trucks on certain routes. In Environmental performance is regularly promoted with Mexico, the frequency of truck deliveries is reviewed transport providers, and is reflected in improvements in throughout the year to adjust it to the actual level of sales. their own emissions. Innovative actions taken with various During low seasons, the number of deliveries can therefore partners include the modernization of road transport be optimized while significantly reducing costs (17,000 providers’ truck fleets, continued reduction in emissions by euros per month). marine transport providers (modernization of their ships, significant reduction in speeds, etc.), while maintaining In the Waters Division, ongoing reflection seeking dual the best balance between CO2 emissions and delivery rates. economic and environmental gains leads to introducing A number of new initiatives emerged in 2012: specific modes of transport adapted to each line, with the • In the United Kingdom, the Waters Division subsidiary aim of reducing the number of kilometers traveled and of worked in partnership with DB Schenker to equip the switching from road transport to more environmentallyplant-warehouse line with electric locomotives: this friendly methods. For example: achieves a 25% reduction in carbon emissions compared • Evian transport towards Russia has shifted from road with diesel locomotives; transport to a rail/shipping/road method via the • In the USA, under an agreement signed by the Antwerp platform; Stonyfield subsidiary with a supplier, a portion of the • in China, Danone Waters China has introduced a new bio-diesel used by trucks is derived from waste oil road/sea transport mix for long-distance product discarded by various restaurants. deliveries. The initiative has generated conclusive environmental and economic benefits with a reduction in emissions by almost 950 teq CO2 and a decrease in costs of approximately 400,000 euros per year. Longer product delivery times have been negotiated with customers; • the innovative concept of upstream consolidation shared warehouse in the Miramas Carrefour warehouse was perpetuated in 2012. This concept allows a full train supply and then a redistribution to the 123 Carrefour stores in the South East of France and other distributors warehouses; Danone Sustainability Report 2012 129 Performance Indicators ENVIRONMENTAL OVERALL ADD Total environmental EN30 protection expenditures and investments by type 2011/2012 In thousands of Euros 2011 2012 variation on a like-for-like basis ENVIRONMENTAL EXPENDITURE Fees paid for packaging collection/recycling 54,496 51,658 Cost of industrial treatment: waste, water, atmospheric emissions 25,895 31,233 Taxes and duties 6,348 8,194 Other environmental costs (studies, certifications, audits, etc.) 5,663 5,890 Costs for managing the CO2 emissions reduction plan 3,761 2,563 Fines and penalties 138 93 Third-party damages 3 8 Subsidies received 109 63 Environmental expenditures before depreciation 96,195 99,576 Depreciation 8,966 8,218 Total environmental expenditures 105,161 107,742 10% ENVIRONMENTAL INVESTMENTS (*) Investments allowing a reduction in CO2 emissions 26,469 37,348 Investments for environmental compliance: (*) 8,297 4,832 wastewater, waste, air pollution, soil pollution Green CapEx 10,289 4,102 (*) Investments in improving water quality Nb 997 (*) Investments in reducing water consumption 1,749 920 Total environmental investments 46,804 48,199 1% (*) Green CapEx excluded NB : Indicator “Investments in improving water quality” was added in 2012. 130 Danone Sustainability Report 2012 In 2012 investments targeting environmental protecOperating expenditures related to the environment tion amounted to some 48.2 million euros, or around amounted to around 107.7 million euros in 2012. 5% of the group’s total capital investments. They are They include 45.1 million euros for waste, water and stable compared with 2011. air management and for environmental taxes other The two primary investment categories are the following: than tax on packaging. This latter expenditure amounted • environmental compliance: waste, wastewater, air to 51.7 million euros in 2012. pollution and soil pollution (waste treatment, wastewater treatment, treatment plants, noise measurement, air quality, etc.). These investments are 58% lower than in 2011 as a result of efforts already made in this area. • investments targeting reduction of CO2 emissions (energy savings, renewable energy use, logistics, ecodesign of packaging, etc.). These investments rose by 26%, reflecting ongoing efforts to achieve the group’s carbon footprint reduction objectives. In addition, since its creation in 2010, the Green CapEx approval process provides financing for projects with high environmental value, but with a return on investment that would prevent their acceptance under the usual investment approval process. The process takes into account a theoretical savings derived from applying a value to metric tons of CO2 reduction resulting from these projects. Some 4.1 million euros were invested in 2012 under this process, representing 9% of the group’s total environmental investments. In addition to the initiatives implemented through this system, some 10.3 million euros were committed in 2011, or 22% of the group’s total environmental investments. Danone Sustainability Report 2012 131 Performance Indicators ENVIRONMENTAL governance Working to connect Nature Responsible environmental and Business communication To achieve its goals, Danone has adopted the following In 2011, in collaboration with the British “antiorganization: greenwashing” agency Futerra, Danone introduced and • a Nature sponsor on the group Executive Board; distributed to all subsidiaries communicating on Nature • a Nature department reporting directly to the group topics a Guide to Environmental Claims to provide them Executive Board and comprising a Nature Finance with all the elements needed to organize responsible Director; communication around their environmental initiatives. • a Group Nature committee meeting 4 or 5 times This Nature Claim Management approach, which includes per year and comprising 7 CEOs or Vice-Presidents an internal approval process for claims, aims to ensure that representing the group’s different entities; the group’s environmental communication respects strict • since 2010 Danone has organized strategic think tanks guidelines for conduct in all strategic areas: climate change, with a panel of external experts (the “Board” of Nature water, packaging, agriculture and biodiversity. stakeholders); • an Environment Director in each division; The group is working on a second edition of this guide that • a Nature committee in each division, which establishes will be even easier for subsidiary marketing and the connection with the business strategy; communication teams to use. The new version of the • a network of more than a hundred environmental Environmental Claims Guide should be rolled out in 2013. correspondents in its subsidiaries. “Carbon Masters” are in charge of the “Carbon Plan” for each subsidiary, measuring greenhouse gas emissions twice annually, defining and implementing action plans to reduce these emissions, and communicating with the divisions and the group. 132 Danone Sustainability Report 2012 Danone Sustainability Report 2012 133 Performance performance indicators SOCIAL EMPLOyment 135 Labor/management relations 140 Occupational health and safety 141 Training and Education 145 Diversity and Equal Opportunities 148 134 Danone Sustainability Report 2012 EMPLOYMENT LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, and region At December 31, 2012, the group had a total workforce of 102,401 employees (longand short-term contracts). The table below indicates the breakdown by geographic region and business division, with a comparison for the years 2010 to 2012. Total workforce At December 31 At December 31 Social Indicators scope Total group scope 2010 (*) 2011(*) 2012 2011(*) 2012 Total number of employees 85,073 87,164 86,555 √ 101,885 102,401 (excluding temporary workers) of which managers in % 16% 17% 18% 16% 16% By geographic region France 10.3% 10.1% 10.2% 8.7% 8.7% Rest of Europe 25.1% 24.7% 21.4% 35.6% 32.6% China 10.8% 10.2% 11.0% 8.8% 9.3% Rest of Asia Pacific 18.2% 18.1% 19.2% 15.4% 16.8% Americas 29.6% 30.9% 32.0% 26.4% 27.0% Africa and Middle East 6.0% 6.0% 6.2% 5.1% 5.7% Total 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% By business division Fresh dairy products 38.5% 38.1% 36.1% 47.0% 44.9% Waters 41.6% 41.4% 42.2% 35.4% 36.2% Baby nutrition 13.1% 13.1% 13.8% 11.2% 11.7% Medical nutrition 5.3% 6.0% 6.4% 5.2% 6.0% Central functions 1.5% 1.4% 1.5% 1.2% 1.2% Total 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% (*) Historical data. √ 2012 figures verified in the 2012 Registration Document. Danone Sustainability Report 2012 135 France France 6.2 10.2 Rest of Europe 5.7 8.7 Rest of Europe China China Rest of Asia Pacific Rest of Asia Pacific performance INDICATORS SOCIAL Americas Americas 27.0 32.0 Africa and Middle East Africa and Middle East EMPLOYMENT 21.4 32.6 11.0 16.8 19.2 9.3 Répartition par zone (Autres indicatifs sociaux) Répartition par zone (périmètre effectif) Breakdown of workforce by geographic region in 2012 Breakdown of workforce by Business in 2012 (In % of total group scope) (In % of total group scope) 1.5 1.2 France Fresh dairy products Fresh dairy products 6.4 5.7 8.7 Waters Rest of Europe 6.0 Waters China Baby nutrition Baby nutrition 11.7 13.8 Medical Rest of Asia Pacific nutrition Medical nutrition 36.1 Americas Central functions Central functions 27.0 st Africa and Middle East 44.9 32.6 36.2 42.2 16.8 9.3 Répartition par zone (périmètre effectif) Répartition par activité (Autres indicatifs sociaux) Répartition par activité (périmètre effectif) Breakdown of workforce by long-term, Danone’s direct management. This breakdown between short-term and 1.2 temporary contract long-term and short-term workforce was calculated based Long-term employees are under contract < 20 yearswithout an end Fresh dairy products on average workforce (the average workforce is calculated 10 1 26.0 Waters date with a Danone subsidiary; short-term From 20 to 29employees years Baby nutrition are by adding together the average total workforce at the end 11.7 From 30 to 39 years those with a contract with 26 a Danone subsidiary comprising Medical nutrition of each month of the year, then dividing this total by 12 From 40 to 49 years an end date. Temporary employeesFrom refer to individuals Central functions 50 to 59 years months). 22 without contract with a Danone44.9company > 60 years but under Average workforce 2011 (*) 2012 36.2 Long-term Short-term Long-term Short-term 39 employees employees (**) employees employees (**) Total 82% 18% 85% 15% Europe Répartition Répartition par âge en 2012 par activité (périmètre effectif) 87% 13% 87% 13% Asia 78% 22% 83% 17% Rest of the world 82% 18% 84% 16% By geographic zone Africa and Middle East 73% 27% 77% 23% < 20 ans Asia Pacific 12 78% 22% 83% 17% 10 De 20 à 29 ans Eastern Europe De 30 à 39 ans 86% 14% 87% 13% 26 Western Europe De 40 à 49 ans 88% 12% 88% 12% Latin America 22 De 50 à 59 ans 82% 18% 84% 16% > 60 ans North America 94% 6% 95% 5% By business division Fresh dairy products 79% 21% 81% 19% Waters 39 85% 15% 89% 11% Baby nutrition 78% 22% 77% 23% Medical nutrition 92% 8% 92% 8% Répartition par âge en 2012 Central functions 94% 6% 94% 6% (*) 2011 data on a like-for-like basis (**) Short-term and temporary employees. 136 Danone Sustainability Report 2012 61 88 61 40 40 44 20 32 33 23 35 20 31 46 15 16 12 0 0 Africa & Asia Eastern Western Latin North Afrique et Asie Europe Europe Amérique Amérique Middle East Pacific Europe Europe America America Moyen Orient Pacifique de l’Est de l’Ouest latine du Nord < 30 years 30 49 years > 49 years Femmes Hommes 7 6 7 14 5 14 100 Long-term, short-term and temporary contracts Net job creation 80 At December 31, 2012, on a like-for-like basis, 60 Average 76 66 71 T 516 net jobs had been created (Total group scope). 71 82 2012 (*) 72 Ages workforce 40 Long-term Short-term Temporary The group’s highest net job creation is in Asia. managers par zone 20 employees (**) employees (**) employees Total 22 12 17 84% 20 6% 23 10% 15 0 EuropeAfrica & Asia Eastern 88% Western 6% Latin North 6% Middle East Pacific Europe Europe America America Asia < 30 years 84% 30 49 years 4%> 49 years 12% Rest of the world 83% 3% 14% By geographic region Africa and Middle 73% 11% 17% East Asia Pacific 84% 4% 12% Eastern Europe 86% 6% 7% Western Europe 89% 6% 5% 6 8 16 31 5 28 100 America Latin 84% 1% 15% North 80 America 96% 3% 1% 57 60 By60business 61 division U 59 Ages staff, Fresh dairy products 81% 3% 16% 54 supervisors 40 57 et workers Waters 89% 5% 6% par zone 20 25 35 33 Baby nutrition 35 77% 5% 18% 12 18 0 Medical nutrition 93% Africa & Asia Eastern Western 4% Latin 3% North Middle East Pacific Europe Europe America America Central functions 93% 6% 1% < 30 years 30 49 years > 49 years (*) Social indicators scope. (**) Under contract with a Danone subsidiary. Breakdown of workforce by long-term, short-term and temporary contract 10 6 12 14 100 6 6 4 3 75 U 50 Effectifs par 84 88 84 83 nature de contrats et zone 25 géographique 0 Total Europe Asia Rest of the world Danone longDanone shortTemporary term employees (*) term employees (*) employees (*) Under contract with a Danone subsidiary. 15 12.9 12 9 M Salariés à 6 temps partiel zone 3.5 géographique 3 2.4 Danone Sustainability Report 2012 137 0.6 0.4 0.3 0 Africa & Asia Eastern Western Latin North managers 40 par zone 20 22 17 20 23 12 15 0 Africa & Asia Eastern Western Latin North Middle East Pacific Europe Europe America America < 30 years 30 49 years > 49 years performance INDICATORS SOCIAL EMPLOYMENT 6 8 16 31 5 28 Full100 time/part time 80 2011 2012 (*) 61 57 60Long-term Short-term Long-term Short-term 60 59 U Danone employees Danone Ages staff, employees Danone employees Danone employees 57 54 supervisors Total 40 97.0% et workers 3.0% 96.8% 3.2% par zone Europe 20 91.5% 8.5% 90.9% 9.1% 33 35 25 35 12 18 Asia 99.9% 0.1% 99.6% 0.4% 0 Africa & Asia Eastern Western Latin North of theEast Rest Middle worldPacific Europe Europe America 99.5% America 0.5% 99.5% 0.5% By geographic < 30 years zone 30 49 years > 49 years Africa and Middle East 99.6% 0.4% 99.4% 0.6% Asia Pacific 99.9% 0.1% 99.6% 0.4% Eastern Europe 96.9% 3.1% 96.5% 3.5% Western Europe 87.8% 12.2% 87.1% 12.9% 10 6 12 14 Latin 100 America 99.7% 0.3% 99.7% 0.3% 6 North America6 4 97.4% 3 2.6% 97.6% 2.4% By75 business division Fresh dairy products 97.5% U 2.5% 97.5% 2.5% 50 Effectifs par Waters 84 88 84 98.1%83 nature de 1.9% 97.9% 2.1% contrats et Baby nutrition 95.8% zone 4.2% 95.1% 4.9% 25 géographique Medical nutrition 90.1% 9.9% 90.7% 9.3% Central functions 92.6% 7.4% 92.9% 7.1% 0 Total Europe Asia Rest of (*) Social Indicators scope. the world Danone longDanone shortTemporary term employees (*) term employees (*) employees This breakdown is calculated by reference to workforce at Percentage of part-time employees December 31, 2012, by geographic region. (average workforce) 15 Part-time work is mainly used in Western Europe, and 12.9 12 to a lesser degree in Eastern Europe and North America. 9 M Salariés à 6 temps partiel zone 3.5 géographique 3 2.4 0.6 0.4 0.3 0 Africa & Asia Eastern Western Latin North Middle East Pacific Europe Europe America America 138 Danone Sustainability Report 2012 LA2 Total number and rate of employee ADD LA3 Benefits provided to full-time turnover by age group, gender, employees that are not provided to and region temporary or part-time employees, by major operations The annual turnover rate for 2012 is 18%. Conditions are extremely varied by region: from 7% in Western Europe to This indicator is not consolidated at group level. 28% in Latin America. Regions with a high turnover rate reflect the strong demand for qualified employees. On a like-for-like basis, the turnover rate decreased slightly from 2011 to 2012. Turnover rate(*)(**) 2011 2012 Total 19% 18% By geographic region Africa and Middle East 19% 20% Asia Pacific 16% 16% Eastern Europe 16% 17% Western Europe 7% 7% Latin America 30% 28% North America 15% 17% By category Staff, Supervisors & Workers 19% 19% Managers 15% 15% % of departures (*) 2011 2012 By gender Women 16% 15% Men 17% 17% By category Staff, Supervisors & Workers of which women 17% 16% of which men 18% 17% Managers of which women 14% 14% of which men 15% 15% (*) T his indicator is calculated as per Danone/IUF agreement, by taking into account external recruitments and departures. (**) Social indicators scope. Danone Sustainability Report 2012 139 performance INDICATORS SOCIAL Labor/management relations LA4 Percentage of employees covered LA5 Minimum notice period(s) regarding by collective bargaining agreements operational changes, including whether it is specified in collective The tables below provide data on the percentage agreements of subsidiaries and 2.3%employees covered by a collective bargaining agreement. Danone has signed a global agreement with the IUF specifically regarding consultation of employee Subsidiaries covered by a collective bargaining agreement(*) representatives in case of operational changes with 2011 2012 consequences for employment (May 1997). It stipulates % of subsidiaries 72% 72% a minimum three-month notice period and was revised in 2005. Employees covered by collective bargaining agreements(*) 2011 2012 % of employees 88% 88% (*) Social indicators scope. The number of employees covered by a collective bargaining agreement remained stable from 2011 to 2012. 140 Danone Sustainability Report 2012 Occupational health and safety ADD LA6 Percentage of total workforce LA7 Rates of injury, occupational represented in formal joint diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, management–worker health and and number of work-related safety committees that help monitor fatalities by region and advise on occupational health and safety programs Danone has been committed to a worldwide program known as WISE since 2004, with the goal of developing a In 2011, Danone strengthened its commitment to safety culture at all group sites to significantly reduce the systematically introduce Management–Employee number of workplace accidents. This program is rolled out committees to define, assess, implement and monitor in all divisions around the world, in plants and logistic workplace health and safety policies and programs. centers and in distribution. It also applies to subcontractors working at Danone sites. The global agreement signed in September 2011 with the IUF with regard to health, safety, working conditions and The management of health and safety as well as the WISE stress clearly specifies Danone is particularly committed to program are coordinated by the group Human Resources creating a dedicated system for coordinating health and Department with the support of designated managers at safety at work and working conditions for every site in all of every level of the company’s organization. Danone’s consolidated subsidiaries (including headquarters). The frequency rate 1 of workplace accidents is the ratio of the number of accidents involving at least one day of This agreement is implemented in all group subsidiaries via medical absence to the millions of hours worked; it includes the Danone Way policy, whose “Health, safety and accidents involving short-term, long-term and temporary working conditions” key practice was updated in 2012 to employees. include expectations with regard to its application: communication of the agreement to staff representatives In 2012, frequency rate 1 remained constant for the group and self-assessment by subsidiaries of their practices to date, as a whole. concerning the agreement’s principles. While results continued to improve in the Medical nutrition and Waters divisions, their stagnation at group level can be attributed in particular to: • certain countries in the Fresh dairy products division where the safety culture is less developed; • France, where the situation deteriorated in the industrial subsidiaries : issues related to physical strain are gaining importance, leading to a strong rise in accidents generating work absences and to a significant reduction in adapted light duty jobs (accidents without a work absence but resulting in the adaptation of the job to allow the employee to return to work the day after the accident). Danone Sustainability Report 2012 141 performance INDICATORS SOCIAL Occupational health and safety While frequency rate 1 is stagnating, the group’s efforts to This effort is also expressed in the “Health, safety, working develop a “safety culture” continued to expand in 2012, in conditions and stress” agreement signed by Danone and particular by: IUF and managed through the Danone Way approach. • strengthening WISE audit requirements (70% of sites audited at the end of the year); The table below indicates the breakdown of work-related • supporting the rollout of the “Driving” standard with a fatalities, accidents engendering at least one day of work substantial training program addressing preventive absence, and frequency rate 1 (FR1) by geographic region driving and vehicle equipment; and by division at December 31, 2011 and 2012. • transposing an excellence approach, supported by safety at work, to other operational areas such as quality, Note: the number of fatalities only includes Danone operating efficiency, customer service and environmental employees in consolidated subsidiaries and excludes protection; subcontractors. • extending the “safety” culture to encompass a culture of health in the workplace, through training in ergonomics, workstation design, etc; • defining a new safety standard for the group whereby operators take part in analyzing risks at their own workstations. 2011 2012 Number of Number of Number of accidents with Frequency Number of accidents with Frequency rate fatalities at least 1 day rate 1 (FR1) fatalities at least 1 day 1 (FR1) of leave of leave By geographic region Africa and Middle East 4 29 1.8 4 46 2.9 Asia Pacific 0 26 0.5 0 28 0.5 Eastern Europe 0 39 1.9 1 29 2.5 Western Europe 0 182 5.,5 0 189 5.7 Latin America 0 138 2.1 0 128 1.9 North America 0 15 2.8 0 8 1.6 Total 4 429 2.2 5 428 2.2 √ By business division Fresh dairy products 3 206 2.8 5 220 3.3 Waters 0 134 1.5 0 119 1.4 Baby nutrition 0 36 1.5 0 41 1.6 Medical nutrition 1 19 2.2 0 17 1.7 Other 0 34 8.4 0 31 0.7 Total 4 429 2.2 5 428 2.2 √ √ 2012 figures verified in the 2012 Registration Document. 142 Danone Sustainability Report 2012 In 2012, Danone decided to expand safety performance monitoring to accidents without work leave, and monitor its frequency rate 2 (FR2) as well as count the number of LA8 Education, training, counseling, lost working days. prevention, and risk-control programs in place to assist This information will be disclosed when the data is reliably workforce members, their families, consolidated at group level. or community members regarding serious diseases The absenteeism rate is 2.3% in 2012, which is a decrease compared to 2011 (2.4%). With its Dan’Cares program, Danone aims to provide its 100,000 employees with a medical coverage for basic Information concerning work-related illnesses is not yet healthcare, including hospitalization and surgery, prenatal consolidated at group level. and maternal care, medical visits and pharmacy. Dan’Cares was launched in 2010, beginning with an audit in the group’s 15 main countries in terms of workforce size. In 2011, eight countries (China, Spain, Indonesia, Mexico, Brazil, Poland, Russia and Saudi Arabia) began introducing action plans in the framework of Dan’Cares. In 2012, new audit carried out in all Danone subsidiaries established a mapping of the systems offered locally to 98% of employees in 41 countries. To date, 51,600 “Danoners” receive healthcare coverage consistent with the standards defined by Dan’Cares, of which 24,000 are benefiting from action plans launched since the start of the project. The group’s goal is that 16,000 additional employees participate in the Dan’Cares program by the end of 2013. Danone Sustainability Report 2012 143 performance INDICATORS SOCIAL Occupational health and safety ADD LA9 Health and safety topics covered in This agreement is implemented in all group subsidiaries via the Danone Way program, whose “Health, Safety and Working Conditions” key practice was updated in 2012 formal agreements with trade unions to include expectations with regard to its application: communication of the agreement to staff representatives On September 29th 2011, Danone signed a worldwide and self-assessment by subsidiaries of their practices to date agreement on health, safety, working conditions and stress concerning the agreement’s principles. with the IUF (International Union of Food workers). This agreement follows on from the agreement signed in 2010 with trade unions in France. The agreement declares that health and safety at work, working conditions, and preventing stress in the workplace are complex and closely interwoven issues that require shared preventive measures. The Danone–IUF agreement restates each party’s responsibilities. The company is responsible for the health and safety of its workers and of all individuals working at the locations for which it is accountable. Among other things, the agreement asserts the following principles: • it is imperative to take into account the human consequences of change, in advance of major organizational changes; • preserving a balance between personal and professional life must be encouraged, among other things by planning work schedules, break times and vacations as far in advance as possible; • involving employees as close to the ground as possible to identify ways to simplify their work makes it possible not only to find new efficiency levers, but also to improve employee well-being; • employees safety requires their participation in safetyrelated preventive measures, but also their right to withdraw from a hazardous situation; • medical monitoring must be systematically introduced in all subsidiaries and locations. 144 Danone Sustainability Report 2012 Training and Education LA10 Average hours of training per year Number training hours(*) Total training hours 2011(**) 2,532,097 2012 2,682,705 √ WETS(****) 1,924,433 2,044,915 per employee by employee category Managers 607,664 637,790 Indicators regarding training were stable from 2011 to 2012, which reflects Danone’s ongoing training efforts in Average number of training hours(*) 2011(**) 2012 all geographic regions. By region Africa and Middle East 16 19 In 2012: Asia Pacific 30 32 • the average number of training hours per employee Eastern Europe 33 31 was 31; Western Europe 30 29 • the number of employees receiving training continues to Latin America 32 32 rise, to 86,879 (compared with 81,838 in 2011). √ North America 51 37 Average number of training hours(*) 2011(**) 2012 Total 31 31 Number of employees trained(*) 2011(**) 2012 WETS (****) 28 29 By region Managers 42 41 Africa and Middle East 3,186 4,416 Asia Pacific 25,814 27,395 Number of employees trained(*) 2011(**) 2012 Eastern Europe 10,338 11,336 Total employees trained 81,838 86,879 √ Western Europe 15,181 14,335 WETS (****) 67,226 71,732 Latin America 24,761 26,793 Managers 14,612 15,147 North America 2,558 2,604 Percentage of employees % of employees trained(*)(***) 2011(**) 2012 2011(**) 2012 trained(*)(***) By region Total employees trained 99% 100% WETS (****) 98% 100% Africa and Middle East 60% 82% Managers 100% 98% Asia Pacific 100% 100% Eastern Europe 99% 100% Western Europe 92% 89% Latin America 100% 100% North America 96% 96% (*) Social indicators scope. (**) 2011 figures in a like-for-like basis. (***) Percentage, where the base is the average workforce for the category. (****) WETS: Workers, Employees, Technicians and Supervisors. √ 2012 figures verified in the 2012 Registration Document. Danone Sustainability Report 2012 145 performance INDICATORS SOCIAL Training and Education ADD LA11 Programs for skills management ADD LA12 Percentage of employees receiving and lifelong learning that support regular performance and career the continued employability of development reviews employees and assist them in managing career endings The Individual Development Plan (IDP) that allows every individual to look towards the future and define training For several years, Danone subsidiaries impacted by the initiatives beyond the annual performance reviews, aging of the working population (primarily in Western continues to apply to a large portion of group employees. Europe and particularly in France) have either signed In 2012, 81% of managers and 58% of WETS (Workers, agreements or adopted action plans that aim to plan for this Employees, Technicians and Supervisors) benefited from an aging and support continued professional activity to a more IDP (a three-point decrease for WETS compared with advanced age. Measures implemented include: 2011, and stable for managers). • training (ergonomics, skills transmission, preparation for retirement, leadership); In the WETS categories, in 2012 as in 2011, Asia and the • mid-career reviews; Medical nutrition division are ahead of the other regions • job adaptations to relieve physical and mental stress. and divisions. Two initiatives currently promote greater coordination and In 2012, 81% of the group managers had an annual more systematic local initiatives in terms of lifelong skills performance review (PDR), three-point decrease vs 2011. development and training programs designed to ensure North America, Eastern Europe and Medical nutrition are employability: ahead of the other regions and divisions for this indicator. • the implementation of legal obligations by the French subsidiaries in the area of preventing physically straining These figures are provided for the Social indicators scope at work. Two prevention topics dictated by law involve the December 31, 2012. development of skills and qualifications, and end-ofcareer management, and should lead to joint agreements or action plans. • the deployment of “CODE Leadership” at operational staff level. Efforts have been made to adapt Danone Leadership College (DLC) courses and firmly establish them into day-to-day operational workplace routines, particularly in the framework of the DaMaWay policy(1). This deployment aims to increase the autonomy of operators and teams in the workplace, and to foster the acquisition of transferrable skills. (1) DaMaWay is Danone’s industrial performance management system that applies to all production sites in all divisions. This system supports all operators of every age and qualification level with training and initiatives to allow them to develop their autonomy and teamwork and share expertise in industrial performance. 146 Danone Sustainability Report 2012 FreshEast Middle Waters Europe Baby Europe Medical Pacific America depuis America au moins 2 ans products nutrition nutrition functions Africaeu& un et RDP MoyenAsia (*) Eastern Pacifique eu undePDIWestern &(**) l’Est Workers latineLatin d’un du PDINordNorth de l’Ouest (**) Middle East Orient Pacific Europe Europe America depuis au moins America 2 ans 100 94 95 100 80 75,000 2010 40 2009 2011 2008 100 95 40 69,743 80 100 85 87 84 94 95 2009 2008 2008 91 100 25 63,116 81 95 2009 83 79 86 100 64 85 87 22,19 77 59,378 40 80 80 77 82 80 71 40 80 80 70 83 24 79 40 80 75 76 D 80 32 20 80 29 77 27 70 27 2759 A+B+C W 64 RDP 80 48 59 26 Nombre 32 E 60 24 25 27 27 24 24Managers D X 60 58 managers FRDP RDP + IDP moyen YNombre 60 60 par IDP zone 60 24 15 58 26 24+RDP EOETAM heures % 48 managers managers moyen24 managers par pôle 40 60 32 16 15 27 25 RDP par zone Salariés heures 40 par zone managers formés 40 d’activité 16 par pôle formation 32 40 40 10 40 20 16 11,884 10,365 d’activité 16 20 20 8 16 20 20 5 2,82 20 0 2,02 24 24 8 0 0 Managers ayantTotal Managers ayant Staff, OETAM (***) ayant bénéficié Managers 0 Africa & Asia Eastern Western Latin North 0 0 0 Middle FreshEast dairy Waters salariés 0 un Afrique formés Supervisors Africa & Pacific Asia Europe BabyWestern Europe Medical Eastern America Latin Central America North 0 eu RDP (*) 0 Africa & etAfrique Asia Asie eu unEurope Eastern PDI (**) Amériqued’unAmérique Western & Workers Latin PDI (**) North Europe 0 products nutrition nutrition functions dairy Moyen FreshEast Asie Pacifique Waters Europe de l’Est Baby Amérique depuis au Amérique latine Medical moins Nord du Central 2 ansdeEurope l’Ouest Middle East Pacific Europe Europe America America Middle et Pacific Moyen Europe Pacifique de Europe l’Est America latine du America Nord de l’Ouest products Orient nutrition nutrition functions % of managers who had a PDR(*) in 2012 % of managers Orient who had a RDP in 2012 by business activity by geographic region 40 95 80 100 95 100 40 94 100 85 87 2009 2009 2008 2008 83 91 100 25 95 40 100 80 86 100 22,19 40 79 2009 2008 77 82 91 6425 80 80 87 76 80 32 80 83 29 2491 40 86 80 75 82 79 80 10020 80 7727 70 82 27 27 26 D E 80 75 25 27 27 76 24 X 48 32 80 58 80 24 24 RDP 20 60 F RDP 60 24 managers Y Nombre 60 80 58 26 E GIDP managers 15 24RDP F zone 57 par Z% 24 moyen 60 managers par IDP pôle 6060 55 15 55 16 27 25 57 IDP Salariés heures Comparai 32 managers 15 40 par zone40 d’activité managers 16 60 75 75 managers formés formation Hommes/ 40 88 88 par pôle par pôle 40 10 par zone d’activité 16 40 d’activité 40 1610 20 20 408 20 5 2,82 20 24 2443 43 8 20 20 20 45 2,02 45 05 0 0 0 25 25 0 Fresh dairy Waters Baby Medical Central Africa 0& Afrique Asia Eastern Europe Asie Western Amérique 12 Latin 12Amérique North Europe Africa & products Asia Eastern nutritionWestern Latin nutrition North functions 0 Middle 0East etAfrique Pacific Europe Baby Europe Amérique America Amérique America 0 0 Middle 0 Fresh dairy Moyen Waters Asie Pacifique Europe de l’Est latine Medical Nord deEurope duCentral l’Ouest 0 Fresh East dairy Pacific Waters Europe Baby Europe America Medical America Central Africa & Femmes products Moyen etOrient Hommes Asia Femmes de Eastern Pacifique Hommes WesternFemmes nutritionl’Est latineLatin nutrition Hommes du North deHommes Femmes Nord functions l’Ouest products nutrition nutrition functions Middle East Orient Pacific Directeurs Europe Europe America Autres America Total et Dirigeants Dirigeants Managers Managers % of managers who had a IPD(**) in 2012 % of manager who had an IDP in 2012 by 100business activity by 100by geographic 25 region 95 2009 2008 40 91 100 86 22,19 40 82 91 100 80 83 91 2009 2008 25 80 87 76 24 77 40 100 80 7582 100 80 86 32 90 79 80 100 20 80 82 91 80 80 7582 278727 76 100 80 F 79 80 58 E Y 20 80 60 IDP 80 60 80 15 26 24RDP % 24 G 27 25 57 F 57managers Z 60 65 managers IDP 60 55 55 IDP Salariés 80 Comparai H zone par G pôle par formés15 60 53 managers 60 60 75 75 managers IDP Hommes/ PDR OETAM 88 88 d’activité 16 40 par pôle 40 managers 10 par zone managers 60 40 d’activité par zone 40 par pôle 10 40 40 20 40 20 5 2,82 d’activité 8 28 24 24 40 20 22 20 20 45 2,02 45 43 43 5 20 20 25 25 0 0 0 0 12 12 Central 20 Africa & Asia Eastern Western Latin North Fresh dairy Afrique Waters Asie Baby Europe Medical Amérique Amérique Europe 0 Middle East Pacific Europe Baby Europe Medical America America 0 0 products nutrition nutrition functions 0 Fresh dairy Waters Central Africa et Moyen & Femmes AsiaHommesPacifique Femmes Eastern deHommes l’Est Western latine Femmes Hommes Latin du Nord Femmesde Hommes North l’Ouest 0 0 Middle East Orient 0 products Africa & Asia EasternnutritionWestern nutrition Latin functions North Pacific Fresh dairy Directeurs Waters Europe Baby Europe America Autres Medical America Central Total Middle East Pacific Europe Europe America America products et Dirigeants nutrition Dirigeants Managers functions nutrition Managers % of WETS(***) who had a IPD or equivalent in 2012 %100of WETS who had an IPD 91 or equivalent in 2012 25 100 91 2009 2008 for at least 2 years by business activity 87 for at least 2 years 80 by geographic82region 86 100 82 100 100 91 100 90 79 80 80 100 75 10 87 76 9.3 20 80 82 90 79 80 100 80 85 80 81 81 80 80 F G 60 80 Z 15 80 65 80 8 55 55 57 57 IDP 80 60 IDP 7.1 managers G Comparai H managers60 60 75 75 Hommes/ 60 53 OETAM PDRpôle 88 88 65 par IDP zone 57 Ipar H Taux des sala 60 managers PDR OETAM40 6 managers 60 10 à temps parti 40 d’activité 60 53 PDR OETAM 47 par zone managers 40 4.9 par pôle par acticités managers 40 par pôle 40 d’activité par zone 405 28 d’activité20 43 40 20 22 40 204 45 45 28 43 20 2.5 25 25 20 22 2.1 12 12 20 0 0 20 0 20 Africa02& Asia Eastern Western Latin North Fresh dairy Waters Baby Medical Central Femmes Hommes Femmes Hommes Femmes Hommes Femmes Hommes 0 products nutrition nutrition functions 0 Middle East Pacific Europe Europe America America 0 Africa & Asia Eastern Western Latin North Fresh dairy Directeurs Waters Baby MedicalAutres Central Total 0 Middle East 0 products 0 etDairy Dirigeants Dirigeants nutritionWestern Managers Managers Fresh dairy Pacific Waters Europe Baby Europe America Medical America Central Africa & Asia Waters Eastern Babynutrition LatinMedicalfunctions North Central products nutrition nutrition functions Middle East productsPacific Europe nutrition America Europe nutrition AmericaFunctions (*) PDR: Performance and Development Review. (**) 100 IDP: Individual Development Plan. 100 91 90 87 (***) WETS: Workers, Employees, Technicians, Supervisors. 82 100 100 100 10 79 80 9.3 80 80 90 80 85 100 10 6 7 14 81 24 5 81 23 80 80 Concerning 100 80 the career paths of “Danoners”, in addition 65 to professional 80 1008 and/or personal project 81 over a85medium 81to 7.1 G H 60 IDP 65 the IDP60 80 and PDR policies, 57 the group 53 has launched the I long-term PDR OETAM managers 80 period (three to five years), and related to the 80 managers H Taux des60 8 sala 60 PDR OETAM Spar 60 6 53 par PDR pôle OETAM à temps parti Répartition I “Growth40 commitment” 6247 60 program 63 to establish61 connections zone 40 current and future group’s managers Ages salariés 60 56 57 business. 69 This 4.9 project is 54 d’activité managers PDR OETAM par acticités Hommes/fem 406 60 61 28 par zone par pôle 6047 88 par zone managers between40 the 22 professional lives and personal aspirations 61 of gradually d’activité40 20 being 4 implemented in the group’s28subsidiaries par pôle 40 40 40 2.5 d’activité 204 Danone’s employees. It involves a mutual commitment 20 through several pilot 22 programs 2.1 for various categories of 20 20 2 44 between20 0 32 employee the 33 and23the company around 35 a people 20 and 0 Fresh jobs. Waters 20dairy 31 Baby Medical Central 46 0 2 Africa & Asia Eastern Western 15 Latin North 16 products nutrition nutrition 12 functions 0 0 0 FreshEast 0 Middle dairy Pacific Waters Europe Baby Europe Medical America America Central Africa0 & Dairy Asia Waters Eastern Baby Western LatinMedical North Central Africa & products Asia Latin Western nutrition Easternnutrition North functions 0 Middle EastAfrique et products Asie Europe Europe nutrition America Amérique nutritionAmerica Amérique 0 Middle East Pacific Europe Europe America America Fresh dairy Pacific Moyen Orient Europe Pacifique Baby Waters Europe de l’Est deMedical l’Ouest Central Functions latine du Nord 147 products nutrition nutrition functions < 30 years 30 49 years > 49 years Femmes Danone Sustainability Report 2012 Hommes 100 100 10 90 9.3 100 Rest of Asia Pacific91 87 82 G 60 79 80 Americas IDP 80 managers 32.0 Africa and Middle East 21.4 par pôle 40 G d’activité 60 IDP managers 20 par pôle 40 d’activité 11.0 performance INDICATORS SOCIAL 0 20 Fresh dairy 19.2 Waters Baby Medical Central Diversity and Equal Opportunities products nutrition nutrition functions 0 Fresh dairy Waters Baby Medical Central Répartition productspar zone (Autres indicatifs sociaux) nutrition nutrition functions 100 1.5 90 Fresh dairy products 80 Waters LA13 80 6.4 Age 100 90 Baby nutrition 65 H 67%6080 of Danone 13.8 employees 80are under 53 40 years Medical old. nutrition In PDR OETAM Composition of governance bodies Western Europe the share of employees 36.1 under Central 30 is only functions 65 managers par zone H and breakdown of employees per 40 12%, 60 while this figure ranges from 53 22 25 to 35% 28 of the PDR OETAM managers category according to gender, age workforce 20 40 in all other regions (except North America). par zone group, minority group membership, 0 22 28 and other indicators of diversity 20 Africa & These figures are Pacific 42.2 Middle East Asia provided for theWestern Eastern Europe Latin Social indicators Europe America North scope America at December 0 31, 2012. Africa & Asia Eastern Western Latin North Gender diversity Middle East Pacific Europe Europe America America The share of women within the management population Répartition par activité (Autres indicatifs sociaux) 100 remained stable in 2012, at the manager, director and Breakdown by age 2012 (in %) 85 81 81 executive levels. 80 < 20 years 100 10 12 85 20 to 29 years From I 57 81 81 60 PDR OETAM 80 From 30 to 39 years 2011 2012 47 26 managers par pôle 40 57 From 40 to 49 years I d’activité Women Men Women Men 60 PDR OETAM 47 From 50 to 59 years managers 22 Total managers(*) 44% 56% 44% 56% 20 > 60 years par pôle 40 d’activité of which Directors 28% 72% 31% 69% 0 and Executives 20 Fresh dairy Waters Baby Medical Central products nutrition nutrition functions of which Executives 12% 88% 12% 88% 0 Fresh dairy Waters 39 Baby Medical Central of which other managers 46% 54% 46% 54% products nutrition nutrition functions (*) Social indicators scope. Répartition par âge en 2012 6 7 14 24 5 23 These results are derived in particular from the Women Breakdown 100 by age group by region All Danoners in 2012 (in%) Plan introduced in 2009 and rolled out in every subsidiary 80 6 7 14 24 5 23 100 S around the world, which applies two main approaches: 62 60 63 61 Ages salariés 60 61 par zone Organizational 80 61 S 40 61 • monitoring the number of women at each hierarchical 60 62 60 12 63 61 < 20 ans Ages salariés par zone 10 De 20 35à 29 ans 61 level and by subsidiary with regard to three key factors: 20 40 32 33 23 15 De 30 à 39 ans 16 internal promotion, external hiring and retention of 0 26 20 Africa & Asia Eastern Western De 40Latin à 49 ans North 35 women within the group; Middle 22 32East 33 Pacific 23 Europe Europe 15 America De 50 à 59 ans America 16 • measures in support of maternity leave; 0 < 30 years Africa & Asia 30 49 years Eastern > Western > 60 ans 49 years Latin North Middle East Pacific Europe Europe America America • wage equality. < 30 years 30 49 years > 49 years Individuel • support for women (training, networking and 39 mentoring) and men (awareness training); Breakdown by age group by region Managers in 2012 (in%) • creation of “female leadership” modules for women 7 6 7 14 5 14 ranging from young managers to chief executives. 100 Répartition par âge en 2012 80 7 6 7 14 5 14 100 60 76 66 T 71 72 71 Ages 80 82 managers 40 par zone 60 76 66 T 71 72 71 Ages 20 82 20 23 managers 40 22 17 15 par zone 12 0 20 Africa & Asia Eastern Western Latin North Middle East Pacific Europe Europe 20 America 23 America 22 17 15 12 0 < 30 years 30 49 years > 49 years Africa & Asia Eastern Western Latin North Middle East Pacific Europe Europe America America < 30 years 30 49 years > 49 years 148 Danone Sustainability Report 2012 80 60 76 66 T 71 72 71 Ages 82 managers 40 par zone 20 22 17 20 23 12 15 0 Africa & Asia Eastern Western Latin North Middle East Pacific Europe Europe America America < 30 years 30 49 years > 49 years Breakdown by age group by region company, and that overall performance benefits when WETS in 2012 (in%) generations interact with one another. The first Octave 100 6 8 16 31 5 28 seminar took place in April 2012, and was attended by 120 people from five partner companies.; 80 57 60 • the “Gen D” program launched by the group in 2012 60 61 U 59 aims to share the Danone culture with its junior Ages staff, 54 supervisors 40 57 employees (under the age of 30) and to increase their et workers par zone 20 33 25 35 contact with group executive management. 35 12 18 0 Africa & Middle East Asia Pacific Eastern Europe Western Europe Latin America North America Disabilities < 30 years 30 49 years > 49 years In France, the integration rate for people with disabilities in the group’s French subsidiaries rose from 3.1% in 2007 to 4.2% in 2008, 4.9% in 2009, 5% at end 2010, 5.22% in Among the WETS population (Workers, Employees, 2011, and 5.29% in 2012. Technicians and Supervisors) there are significant differences between Western Europe and the other14 10 6 12 Integrating people with disabilities into headquarters is the geographic 100 regions, with a higher number of older workers 6 6 4 most difficult, given the gap between training levels and (31% older than 49) and only 12% of workers less than3 30 75 required qualifications. Many subsidiaries have signed years old. The stability of the workforce in this Western specific three-year agreements with trade unions to support European region, due to low turnover and limited growth, U 50 84 88 84 83 a longer-term Effectifs par approach to this issue. generates more specific issues (physically straining at work, nature de contrats et career 25 management, etc). zone géographique At global level, the number of employees with disabilities rose from 757 people in 2011 to 792 in 2012. 68 Danone0 hasTotalalso been working for several years toRestaddress Europe Asia of subsidiaries (compared with 58 in 2010) employ at least one issues of professional integration for young people. the world Danone longDanone shortTemporary disabled worker. In these 68 subsidiaries, the percentage of Initiatives termin the French employees (*) term employeesaddress subsidiaries (* ) both employees disabled people represents 1.3% of their overall workforce, a employment for younger generations and the origin of figure that remains stable compared with the previous year. candidates for hire. These projects include: This average percentage covers a variety of situations in • “Initiative 500”, through which 225 young people with 15 terms of degree of advancement and integration policy for no employment qualifications have entered these 12.9 employees with disabilities, notably depending on whether subsidiaries 12 since 2010 with a pre-qualification contract or not they are subject to demanding legislative giving them access to vocational training or studies 9 requirements. certificates recognized by French government; M Salariés à temps partiel • “Sales 6 School”, which recruits 64 young people each year zone géographique in3a work-study program3.5ranging from a two-year2.4 university0.6 degree 0.4 to a Master 2 in sales professions.0.3 0 Africa & Asia Eastern Western Latin North Middle East Pacific Europe Europe America America The group also launched two major initiatives in favour of intergenerational relations in 2012: • the “Octave” seminar was initiated by Danone as an extension of the EVE seminar (created with various partner companies with the goal of raising awareness and personal development in the area of female leadership), based on the notion that older and younger professionals all have something to contribute to the Danone Sustainability Report 2012 149 performance INDICATORS SOCIAL Diversity and Equal Opportunities LA14 Ratio of basic salary of men to There are ten grades (excluding Danone Executive Board members) in all 60 countries where the group does business. The compa-ratio indicates this wage gap independentwomen by employee category ly of the currency and country of reference. Managers and Directors categories Examples: The data is provided by the “HIRIS” information system • a compa-ratio of 1.0 means that the individual for Human Resources management indicators. is paid exactly the median wage for his or her grade; • a compa-ratio of 1.10 means that he or she is paid The basis chosen for comparison, i.e. the “compa-ratio”, 10% more than the median. is the total wages received by the individual compared to the median wages established each year for The tables below provide an overview of the gender all managerial and executive categories organized gaps by level. by grade.  Directors excluding general managers: internal Danone grades 6b to 5 (equivalent to grades 20 to 22 of the Hay system) Compa-ratio Average age vs. 2011 Grade Women Men Total 2012 gap Grade Women Men Total gap 5 1.05 1.05 1.05 0.00 0.00 5 45.0 46.1 45.9 6A 1.04 1.02 1.03 0.02 -0.02 6A 43.8 44.3 44.2 6B 0.93 0.94 0.94 -0.01 -0.02 6B 42.4 43.4 43.0 Total Total 0.98 0.99 0.98 -0.01 -0.02 43.1 44.3 43.9 Directors Directors Total workforce of 1,254 directors of which 31.3% women and 68.7% men. These figures include all directors in the group. There is a slight overall gap of 1% across the entire population, with a reduction in the gap identified in 2011 for the 6A and 6B directors. Managers category: internal Danone grades 9.9 to 7 (equivalent to grades 15 to 18 of the Hay system) Compa-ratio Average age vs. 2011 Grade Women Men Total 2012 gap Grade Women Men Total gap 7 0.90 0.94 0.92 -0.04 0.01 7 39.9 41.2 40.7 8 0.89 0.90 0.89 -0.01 -0.02 8 37.1 39.5 38.3 9 0.87 0.85 0.86 0.02 0.00 9 34.7 37.5 36.2 9.9 0.90 0.89 0.90 0.01 -0.03 9.9 27.6 29.0 28.2 Total Total 0.88 0.88 0.88 0.00 -0.01 35.1 38.0 36.7 Managers Managers Total workforce of 15,004 managers, of which 47.2% women and 52.8% men. These figures include all managers in the group. 150 Danone Sustainability Report 2012 For the entire manager population of more than Workers, employees, technicians 15,000 people, no gender gap is apparent for wages. and supervisors categories As the group does not have a single classification system for Overall, the compensation review procedures, guided by these categories, and deployment of the information system group policies and including a comparison of compensation does not yet cover all these job categories, data is collected for men and women, continue to direct attention to this from the internal Magnitude reporting system. issue where gaps are small but real. The male-female comparison is made using the median annual men-women wage ratios. Figures are calculated based on the median ratios for men’s and women’s annual wages on a comparable basis between 2011 and 2012, so that subsidiaries that exited or entered the scope between 2011 and 2012 are not included, in particular the subsidiaries resulting from Danone’s merger with the former Unimilk group in Russia. This reporting covers 97% of this population, and 84.5% of the whole group. Supervisors, Workers ETS (*) 2011 Sustainability 1.03 1.04 Report 2011 comparable 1.03 1.04 basis with 2012 2012 1.00 1.06 Gap -0.03 0.02 % of total 97% 97% employees 2012 (*) ETS: Employees, Technicians and Supervisors. The results can be read as follows: 50% of subsidiaries pay their male and female “Employees, Technicians and Supervisors” at the same level on average, for all levels and all positions; and 50% of subsidiaries pay their male “Workers” an average of 6% more than their female counterparts. A 3% improvement of the ratio can be noted compared with 2011, for Supervisors and ETS, and a 2% increase in the gap for Workers. Danone Sustainability Report 2012 151 Performance performance HUMAN indicators RIGHTS Investment and procurement practices 153 Non-discrimination 156 Freedom of association and collective bargaining 156 Child labor 157 Forced and compulsory labor 157 Security practices 157 Indigenous rights 157 152 Danone Sustainability Report 2012 Investment and procurement practices HR1 Percentage and total number of • the group implements them via the Danone Way approach, which applies to 89% of the group sales and includes 16 key practices relating to Social significant investment agreements and Environmental Responsibility, including a specific that include human rights clauses Human Rights dimension (see page 41 of this report); or that have undergone human • the 7 Fundamental Principles are the basis for the rights screening RESPECT program launched in 2005 (see page 46 of this report) which aims among other things at ensuring the Danone’s commitment to comply with and promote application of these principles by the group’s suppliers. human rights principles has been defined, deployed and promoted to employees and suppliers through a variety of means and in several phases: • Danone joined the United Nations Global Compact in 2003, and reaffirmed its commitment in 2009; • in 2005, the Seven Fundamental Principles (see below) defined by International Labor Organization conventions were addressed in an agreement between Danone and the IUF, and were the subject of joint audits of 42 of the group’s subsidiaries from 2009 to 2012; The Seven Fundamental Social Principles are: 1. Child labor 5. Health and safety at work The company does not employ children aged under 15. If the law sets The company ensures that the workplace and its environment do not endanger a higher minimum working age or compulsory schooling is to a higher the nintegrity or health of employees. Action to reduce the causes of accidents age, it is this limit that applies. Educational programmes and training and improve working conditions is the object of ongoing programmes. are not included in this limitation. Sanitary equipment, canteens and housing provided to employees are built and maintained in accordance with applicable legal requirements. As a minimum, 2. Forced labor the company must provide employees with drinking water, clean toilets in The company does not use forced or compulsory labor, meaning any adequate numbers, adequate ventilation, emergency exits, proper lighting and work or service performed under threat or that is not consented to by access to medical treatment. the person concerned. 6. Work hours 3. Non-discrimination The company must ensure that applicable legal restrictions on working hours With due regard for applicable law, the company refuses to engage are complied with. The normal working week is 48 hours at most. Overtime is in any discriminatory practices. Discrimination means any distinction, on a voluntary basis. Employees have at least one day off each week, except in exclusion or preference limiting equality of opportunity or treatment. exceptional circumstances and for a limited period. It may be based on race, colour, sex, sexual orientation, religion, political opinion, age, nationality, family obligations or other considerations. 7. Pay The company ensures that: 4. Freedom of association and right to collective bargaining • no wage is lower than the applicable legal minimum; The company recognises and respects employees’ freedom of association and • all employees receive a pay slip; their right to freely choose their representatives. The company also recognises • employees receive a decent wage relative to country; employees’ right to collective bargaining. The company ensures that employee • wage rates for overtime are in all cases higher than for normal hours. representatives do not suffer any discrimination. Danone Sustainability Report 2012 153 performance INDICATORS HUMAN RIGHTS Investment and procurement practices In the framework of the RESPECT program, to ensure that all suppliers comply with these fundamental social principles, Danone has integrated a specific “Fundamental HR2 Percentage of significant Social Principles” clause into its General Terms of suppliers and contractors that Procurement. This clause is included in all contracts and is have undergone screening on compulsory for all suppliers. By signing the contract, the human rights and actions taken supplier undertakes to: • comply with the Fundamental Social Principles; In the framework of the RESPECT approach (see page 46), • promote respect for these principles among their own 2,361 suppliers have completed self-evaluations using the suppliers, subcontractors and partners; SEDEX platform. This represents nearly 70% of the 3,500 • give Danone the right to verify the application of these suppliers targeted by this approach around the world, principles, in particular through audits; chosen for their strong interdependency with the group in • if non-compliance by a supplier is identified during an terms of CSR, and the nature of their products and/or audit, draft a corrective action plan targeting all services: raw materials (except milk), packaging, logistics, identified non-compliance issues for approval by promotional products and other services. Among these Danone; 2,361 suppliers, 260 external SMETA audits have been • if a supplier refuses to draft a corrective action plan, or if carried out by external agencies, with non-compliance recurring non-compliance issues are raised in several issues broken down into the following categories. audits, recognize Danone’s right to terminate the contract with this supplier. Health, safety and hygiene 62% Working hours 14% Environment 7% Since 2009 the scope of supplier responsibility has been Wages 6% expanded to include the Environment and Business Ethics, Management systems 5% and the contractual clause has been amended accordingly. Work contract 4% Freedom of association 1% Child labor 1% The 7 Fundamental Social Principles on human rights are Housing conditions < 1% thus integrated into all agreements involving significant Forced labor < 1% investments, encompassing: Ethical practices < 1% • 70% of sales agreements with customers; • 90% of purchasing contracts with major suppliers; This table shows the breakdown of instances of non• 100% of acquisitions of majority interests in external conformities identified in 104 audits of Danone suppliers companies; carried out in 2012, the results of which were made • 100% of agreements concerning local community available on the SEDEX platform. They primarily concern development, in particular with NGOs in the audits completed in China, Brazil and Indonesia. framework of Danone Ecosystem Fund projects. 154 Danone Sustainability Report 2012 Four items continue to account for the great majority (89%) of non-conformity cases : Health, safety and hygiene, Working hours, Environment and Wages. ADD HR3 Total hours of employee training on Occurrences of this latter item are on the decline compared policies and procedures concerning with 2011, while non-compliance in the area of aspects of human rights that are Environment is proportionally on the rise. Items relating to relevant to operations, including the child labor and forced labor, priorities for the group, remain percentage of employees trained at very low levels. It should be noted that any cause for concern regarding either of these two topics leads to an Employees’ awareness of human rights practices is raised immediate demand for corrective action by the supplier as through two approaches: soon as it is flagged in the SEDEX self-evaluation, • The Danone Way program (see page 41 of this report) independent of the subsequent audit. Every Danone employee has received a Danone Inside Pack that describes the Danone Way approach and its 16 key practices. These materials provide information on human rights, particularly with regard to the ban on child labor and forced labor, diversity and equal opportunity, and safety at work. Among the approach’s 16 key practices, eight relate specifically to “Human Rights” and “Human Relationships”. • The RESPECT program (see page 46 of this report) The Procurement departments manage supplier compliance with regard to social responsibility, and in particular respect for human rights. A communication guide about the RESPECT approach including the Fundamental Social Principles was broadly distributed to the procurement function in 2010. In this area, 100% of purchasers have been informed. Beyond this, the number of hours of training and/or information is not consolidated at group level. Danone Sustainability Report 2012 155 Freedom of association Non-discrimination and collective bargaining HR4 Total number of incidents of HR5 Operations identified in which discrimination and actions taken the right to exercise freedom of association and collective An agreement was signed with the IUF concerning bargaining may be at significant anti-discrimination measures and promotion of diversity. risk, and actions taken to support Every year since 2009, a Danone representative and an IUF these rights representative visit several countries and sites together in order to promote these framework agreements and An agreement concerning the right to union organization concretely verify if they are applied on the ground. These has been signed with the IUF. Every year since 2009, a joint visits have been carried out in 42 subsidiaries. No case Danone representative and an IUF representative visit of discrimination was identified during these visits. several countries and sites together in order to promote these framework agreements and international employee Aside from these joint visits, information about cases of dialogue, and to concretely verify on the ground that the discrimination may be communicated via various channels: agreements have been implemented and adapted to local • reporting to the human resources department of each conditions. These joint visits have been carried out in 42 group subsidiary; subsidiaries. In addition, the IUF notifies central • reporting to staff representatives in the subsidiaries where management if it is informed of failure to respect freedom they are present; of association. • “local ethics” lines implemented in certain subsidiaries, such as in Indonesia, Mexico and the USA. Freedom of association is also one of the key practices monitored in all subsidiaries by the Danone Way approach The Danone Way program also includes prevention (see page 41 of this report), including a key practice on Social of discrimination, particularly through the implementation Dialogue that promotes employee dialogue in every group of on-site specific procedures and measures to identify and subsidiary. eliminate possible discriminatory actions. The Danone Way program thus encourages subsidiaries to: • implement the necessary conditions for electing staff representatives, whether unionized or not, in compliance with local legislation; • guarantee staff representatives’ independence with regard to management teams and political parties through the organization of ad hoc elections; • hold economic and social information meetings between staff representatives and management of each site, and with all employees; • confirm agreements between staff representatives and management by signing negotiated agreements. 156 Danone Sustainability Report 2012 Forced and Child labor compulsory labor HR6 Operations identified as having HR7 Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of significant risk for incidents child labor, and measures taken of forced or compulsory labor, to contribute to the elimination and measures to contribute of child labor to the elimination of forced or compulsory labor Respect for this principle is verified through the Danone Way program (see page 41 of this report), for which the This aspect is dealt with in the same way as the indicator abolition of child labor is a prerequisite. All subsidiaries are for child labor (HR6). required to put in place the necessary procedures and resources to ensure that there is no child labor at their sites. All the subsidiaries that completed the Danone Way assessment in 2012 were in compliance with this fundamental, and no non-compliance incidents were identified. Security practices Indigenous rights ADD HR8 Percentage of security personnel ADD HR9 Total number of incidents trained in the organization’s policies of violations involving rights or procedures concerning aspects of indigenous people and of human rights that are relevant actions taken to operations This criteria does not apply to Danone activities. Service providers in the security sector commit to comply with the RESPECT program’s Fundamental Social Principles, and are screened by the group manager in charge of life and property safety. Danone Sustainability Report 2012 157 Performance performance indicators SOCIETY LOCAL Communities 159 Corruption 161 PUBLIc policy 163 anTi-competitive behavior 164 compliance 165 158 Danone Sustainability Report 2012 LOCAL Communities S01 Nature, scope, and effectiveness • the creation of an exploratory on the ground program, prior to every new project. The main goal being to assess the hypotheses for adapting a project to of any programs and practices that a different environment, and to understand the barriers assess and manage the impacts of and opportunities for implementing any given project. operations on communities, A pilot project implemented in the Irish subsidiary of including entering, operating and the Medical nutrition division was able to be replicated exiting in Spain; • the creation of a guide to co-development, based on The aim shared by all Danone's social innovation initiatives feedback from project teams on the ground (subsidiaries is to strengthen teams’ skills around the following and partners) to efficiently equip future project teams to challenges: build their own partnerships(1). • understanding social issues and stakeholders; • measuring social impact; Measuring the social impact of projects • co-development and co-management, in particular launched with NGOs; The Danone Ecosystem Fund has oriented its regard to • the commitment of Danone employees to various monitor the projects it supports and to measure their social programs; impact. The overall goal of a social impact measure study is • internal and external communication about those to objectively evaluate, qualitatively and/or quantitatively, initiatives. what the projects supported by the fund and co-developed by Danone subsidiaries and their partners have changed in Integration of sustainable development social and economic terms in the lives of the programs’ issues into local strategies: towards greater beneficiaries. autonomy for subsidiaries To manage these innovative projects, Danone’s teams need Measuring social impact allows to: to develop new skills and attitudes. Cooperation with • identify any gaps in the programs as well as learnings partners from the nonprofit sector, measuring the impact of that were crucial to the project’s success, as part of a projects implemented, new governance and business continuous improvement; models: all this is knowledge that must be consolidated and • objectively assess the return on investment of these made available to the teams through training efforts, programs in terms of economic and social value creation; notably through the Danone Ecosystem Fund. • contribute to the progress of research in this area by using the fund’s projects as laboratories. Three major initiatives were launched in this framework in 2012: • the creation of a training program dedicated to “co-development” fundamentals and social innovation project management. An initial pilot was launched in Ukraine, with a second planned for 2013; (1) F  or more information, refer to the guide available at: http://ecosysteme.danone.com/guide_cocreation Danone Sustainability Report 2012 159 performance INDICATORS SOCIETY LOCAL Communities Two important initiatives took place in 2012: In addition to the indicators specific teach project, broader • The Progress Monitoring Grid (an internal tool for based elements define the scope of measurement: monitoring the fund’s projects) was adapted to enhance • creation of economic and social value; the environmental dimension of the projects in addition • robustness and longevity of the capacity created after to the three already addressed areas (economic, social fund financing ends; and health). • potential for replication on a larger scale; • empowerment of women, where this action is relevant. For example, the “environment” component of a Micro-distribution project might include the following Two projects supported by the fund in 2011 were used to indicators in the area of “packaging recycling”: test both the quantitative and qualitative impact measurement methodologies (see the 2011 Sustainable Development Report, page 209, for initial results). PACKAGING RECYCLING These two studies will continue in 2012/2013, and the fund has also launched two social impact measurement Volume collected annually studies in Mexico for the Pepenadores and Semilla projects. Studies in the Micro-distribution and Recycling clusters will continue in 2013 in partnership with the William Volume sorted Ratio of volume Davidson Institute at the University of Michigan and the annually sorted to volume recycled ESSEC’s SROI (Social Return on Investment) network. A project linked to the measurement of business and transformational impact is also underway with HEC • Global Impact Measurement has expanded. business school, the first pilot will take place in 2013 in the The Danone Ecosystem Fund has adopted a global Danone Dairy France subsidiary. approach to measure the impact of its projects (social, environmental and economic impact). This approach is based on a benchmark of all existing impact measurement methods and on interviews with international experts. The goal is to apply recognized impact measurement methods to key projects of the fund in the four of the five areas it addresses (Supply, Recycling, Services to individuals and Microdistribution), with a combination of qualitative and quantitative approaches. 160 Danone Sustainability Report 2012 CORRUPTION Danone’s Business Conduct Policy (BCP) was revised in There is also a mid-year reporting of allegations and proven 2009. It includes founding texts such as the Universal cases of fraud, in which corruption incidents are classified Human Rights Declaration, a list of Danone’s as “significant fraud,” whatever the amounts involved, in commitments to the United Nations Global Compact, order to collect complete information on this type of OECD guidelines and the Sustainable Development occurrence. Principles, which include in particular the Fundamental Social Principles and Business Ethics Principles, directly Since 2005 the DIALERT whistleblowing system has been referring to prevention of corruption. implemented to allow all employees to report to Danone management directly and in confidence of any breach of: The latest 2009 version of the Business Conduct Policy was • the group’s principles and procedures for internal distributed to all directors and managers (and even more control; broadly in certain subsidiaries) by the Human Resource • accounting and finance rules that could affect the Departments of the subsidiaries, and supported with special truthfulness of accounts and the financial situation of initiatives to inform employees. This topic is included in the the employee’s company or of another Danone Danone Way self-assessment, in the evaluation of the subsidiary; subsidiary control system (known as DANgo), in the • anti-corruption rules. internal semi-annual opinion survey, as well as in the internal audit program each time an audit in the The visibility of this whistleblowing system is verified subsidiaries addresses these subjects. The 2006 BCP during every subsidiary audit. There is an internal control Questions & Answers document updated in 2011. item (part of DANgo guidelines) that deals with this topic and for which each subsidiary must run an annual selfSince 2006, directors and managers sign a specific evaluation. clause in their employment contracts indicating that they are familiar with the Business Conduct Policy (BCP) and Since 2008, the DIALERT system has been extended to commit to compliance by themselves and their teams. Danone suppliers (letter from the subsidiaries to every Various tools have been provided to support effective major supplier and systematic inclusion in call for tender application of these principles (presentations, posters, Q&A documents) to allow them to report in confidence any booklets, etc.). A specific program to prevent fraud was also breach of the BCP rules with regard to themselves (in developed in 2006 and has been expanded every year since particular possible cases of corruption). The DIALERT then. system was extended in 2011 to include the WHO Code for Baby nutrition products. In addition to DIALERT, An information booklet was updated in 2011 and some councils have implemented local whistleblowing distributed once again to the Executive Committees of each systems. subsidiary, recommending that each subsidiary implements an annual fraud and corruption risk assessment. This channel produced a total of 60 valid ethics notifications in 2012. Around ten cases of confirmed fraud related to internal control led to appropriate sanctions. A training tool available on the web, as well as a questionnaire (COMPLY) were rolled out to raise awareness of corruption risks in the subsidiaries. Danone Sustainability Report 2012 161 performance INDICATORS SOCIETY CORRUPTION S02 Percentage and total number The overall results attest a significant improvement in terms of familiarity and distribution of these documents, and best practices related to professional and business ethics. of business units analyzed for Discussions were also able to raise new awareness risks related to corruption of this topic among employees on the ground; a summary of results was examined at the highest levels of Danone’s Within the group’s four divisions, every consolidated organization. Action plans were defined and are underway. subsidiary (integrated into Danone financial accounts) is covered by the group’s seven-point anti-fraud and anticorruption program. More particularly, the first element in this program is an annual evaluation by each subsidiary of S04 Actions taken in response internal and external fraud risk. to incidents of corruption S03 Percentage of employees trained Danone strongly condemns all corrupt practices, as highlighted in its Business Conduct Policy, distributed to all managers and to many employees in all the group’s in the organization’s anti-corruption subsidiaries. The sixth point of the anti-fraud program policies and procedures concerns the corrective and disciplinary measures to be applied within each entity. For major cases, a crossAll Danone employees were informed of the 2009 revision disciplinary committee (risks, internal audit, HR, safety, of the group Business Conduct Policy. This was achieved etc.) meets monthly to examine the investigations quality, through information meetings, presentations and questionfairness of decision and relevance of disciplinary measures. and-answer sessions, and distribution of documents with or without formal acknowledgement of receipt. Managers, Mid-yearly reporting on internal fraud has been in place for and in particular subsidiaries Executive Committees six years, with the participation of 175 subsidiaries, or members, received more extensive training and almost every entity of the group. There were 170 cases of information. Since 2009, an induction document has been suspected fraud registered in 2012, of which 120 proved to drafted and sent to the subsidiaries for transmission to each be actual fraud, a majority of which were minor (products new hire upon arrival. Titled “Danone Inside Pack,” it or materials stolen, minor misappropriations). None of contains several pages covering the Business Conduct these cases of fraud had a significant impact on Danone’s Policy. It was also distributed for the first time in 2009 to accounts in 2012. In the huge majority of cases identified, employees working in the subsidiaries. the employees implicated were dismissed following the fraud investigations. The business conduct survey first launched in 2010 in more than 160 group subsidiaries was repeated in 2011, Monthly meetings for monitoring cases of fraud are held at and supplemented by an analysis of the distribution of group headquarters to verify their effective follow-up and communication material on these topics (BCP, Danone appropriate management in terms of ethics and internal Inside Pack, etc.). control. 162 Danone Sustainability Report 2012 PUBLIc policy S05 Public policy positions and ADD S06 Total value of financial and in-kind participation in public policy contributions to political parties, development and lobbying politicians, and related institutions by country Danone considers lobbying as a positive action aimed at giving politicians and legislators the information they need As indicated in Danone Business Conduct Policy, the use to deal with current issues and define an appropriate of funds or other group assets, either directly or indirectly, legislative and regulatory framework adapted to an to benefit organizations of a political nature may only take increasingly complex environment. Danone has therefore place in the framework of the laws and regulations in effect reorganized its corporate teams in charge of public policy in each country, and must be applied with complete and lobbying. The goal is to better distinguish policy transparency. This use is only possible with formal development from factors related to the application and management approval. This rule became more restrictive in monitoring of regulations. The resources needed to extend the new 2009 version of the Business Conduct Policy. these activities to the subsidiaries have also been defined. However, Danone encourages its employees to be involved in their local community. These principles were further In 2011, Danone created a Public Affairs kit and the Public reinforced in the Public Affairs policy communicated to Affairs Policy, which were presented to the subsidiaries in Danone subsidiaries in January 2012. January 2012. These tools are used to define action areas and initiatives to be implemented by the subsidiaries. The deployment process has also been formally defined as a Public Affairs best practice (DOM) in the DANgo internal governance system to ensure that this policy is actively implemented and monitored every year in the group’s subsidiaries. Danone also takes active part in the efforts of industry associations working together to contribute to formalization of a public policy at both national and international levels. The group and its subsidiaries also maintain direct relations with the national authorities in the countries in which they do business. These relations are maintained in compliance with Danone Business Conduct Policy. Danone Sustainability Report 2012 163 performance INDICATORS SOCIETY anTi-competitive behavior Danone Business Conduct Policy includes the prohibition of anti-competitive practices. Danone expects its employees to observe applicable fair competition rules. No agreement ADD S07 Total number of legal actions for or arrangement that serves to reduce free competition may anticompetitive behavior, anti-trust, be made with competitors. The Business Conduct Policy is and monopoly practices and their distributed to all directors and managers (and more broadly outcomes in certain subsidiaries) by the subsidiary Human Resource Departments, that also support this communication with No legal proceedings are currently underway. appropriate initiatives to ensure that all employees are informed. Since 2006, not only directors but also all managers sign a specific clause in their employment contract indicating that they are familiar with the Business Conduct Policy and commit to compliance by themselves and by their teams. Specific awareness of these issues is raised among buyers through the regular distribution of a specific and more detailed Code of Conduct for Procurement, and among key account managers working directly with the mass retail sector. Regular training programs are also organized for Purchasing managers and members of the Management Committees. A Code of Conduct for functions in contact with customers was also rolled out in the subsidiaries in every country in 2011. 164 Danone Sustainability Report 2012 compliance S08 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for noncompliance with laws and regulations At Danone corporate level, no significant fines or nonmonetary disciplinary actions have been registered for non-compliance with laws and regulations. Danone Sustainability Report 2012 165 Performance performance product indicators responsibility Consumer health and safety 167 product and service labeling 171 marketing CommunicationS 173 CONSUMER PRIVACY 175 166 Danone Sustainability Report 2012 Consumer health and safety PR1 Life cycle stages in which health Danone takes defined nutrition goals into account in product design and measures them against competing products and safety impacts of products For new product launches, the Nutrition check included and services are assessed for in projects verifies the products’ nutritional positioning improvement, and percentage before they are launched. For example, Danimals of significant products and Crunchers, a children’s snack with cookies, was launched services categories subject in 2012 in the United Stated with only 11g of sugar and to such procedures 100 kilocalories per 100g cup serving; the Danimals flavored yogurt, designed for schools, was developed with Consumer health 13g of sugar and 80 kilocalories per 113g serving. Both products therefore already meet the criteria of the Children Prior to the product design process, Danone Food & Beverage Initiative Pledge on advertising to analyzes local nutrition situations and nutrition children, signed by the Danone subsidiaries Dannon patterns Company subsidiary and due to apply in 2014. In 2012 Danone continued to pursue the Nutriplanet program which involves collecting key data about local Danone regularly evaluates the nutritional quality nutrition and health situations and eating habits. Data was of its products following their market launch updated for some countries (France, Netherlands) and new In 2012 the NutriProgress program for nutritional quality data obtained for others (Italy, Russia, Algeria, Argentina, verification and improvement covered 20 subsidiaries in the Belgium and Ireland). Fresh dairy products division (1,526 Danone recipes evaluated), six subsidiaries in the Waters division In Russia, in addition to the Nutriplanet program already (58 Danone beverage recipes and 473 competing recipes; completed, the Nutrilife project provided precise mineral waters are not included in this scope) and quantitative information about dietary intake in 2,050 13 subsidiaries in the Baby nutrition division. infants aged between 6 and 36 months, in 20 different Russian cities. Results showed that iron intake was deficient The subsidiaries develop action plans based on those for 75% of the children, confirming the positioning of evaluations. In 2012, Dannon Company thus reduced the Malyuta, iron-enriched follow-on milk suited to the sugar content of Activia fruits by 8%. In addition, Activia nutritional needs of infants at this age. Danone’s survey of light with fruit now has no added sugar, corresponding to eating patterns launched in 2011 in Algeria also gained an 11% reduction in the product’s total sugar content and speed. Three studies were completed in France, India and 60 kilocalories per serving. Indonesia in 2012. In 2012 a total of 26% of sales corresponds to products In total, at end 2012 the Nutriplanet program covers improved between 2010 and 2012(1). At end 2012, 66% 45 countries: 24 countries for the Fresh dairy products of products complies with demanding internal goals for division representing 85% of its net sales, and 25 countries nutritional content. for the Baby nutrition division, or 70% of its net sales. 13 surveys cover the entire population (adults, children, babies and their mothers); 20 surveys target the babies and their mothers; 11 focus on adults and children over 3 years old; and nine have a specific component for the elderly. (1) 2  012 Scorecard results, Fresh dairy products, Waters, and Baby nutrition divisions. Danone Sustainability Report 2012 167 performance INDICATORS PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY Consumer health and safety Nutrition services and nutrition education Consumer safety programs for consumers increasingly undergo Danone implements a Quality and Food Safety policy scientific evaluations to measure their impact developed to focus its attention on consumers. The system Here are two examples: is based on a set of criteria to ensure product quality and The Blédina France subsidiary is a stakeholder in the safety and compliance with Danone specifications at Malin(2) program targeting low-income families. The each stage in the distribution chain, from product design program aims to promote healthy eating habits for children to consumption, everywhere and all the time. aged 0 to 3. Developed from 2009 to 2011 by ten public and private sector partners, including the French Red To bring all group operations into line with a recognized Cross, it is built on three pillars: nutrition education for food safety standard, wherever they are based, Danone has mothers, starting from pregnancy, promotion of chosen the FSSC 22000 standard. breastfeeding, and the distribution of vouchers for access to fresh fruit and vegetables and baby food products. The percentage of plants in each division having A scientific study of the program will run from 2013 ISO 22000 certification is given in the table below: to 2016 and monitor 752 families. % of ISO 22000-certified plants Danone Spain is continuing its Danone Sport Schools Fresh dairy products 96% program to encourage a healthy lifestyle and promote good Waters 72% social integration in 6to 12-year-olds living in underprivileged areas. Launched in 2004, the program is Baby nutrition 86% now sufficiently advanced to undergo a scientific impact Medical nutrition 100% study. Four times per year, all 5,000 children taking part in the program answer a questionnaire enabling 59 indicators At group level, the Quality department defines the quality to be measured. The Spanish Ministry of Health has policy and ensures its implementation: defining standards, honored the program as part of the NAOS Strategy for the systems and performance indicators consistent across the prevention of obesity(3). different divisions and monitoring their implementation. This policy is based on scientific aspects, best practices published by WHO (World Health Organization), the CODEX and on Danone’s own expertise in its products and manufacturing processes. Danone’s four divisions adapt this policy to the specificities of their business lines (manufacturing processes, number of ingredients, supply sourcing, etc.). Each subsidiary is responsible for policy implementation in compliance with local legislation and for integration of consumer expectations into the product development process. (2) http://programme-malin.com/ (3) http://www.esade.edu/newsletter/eng/nepa/120416_danone?ID_FOTO=22035 168 Danone Sustainability Report 2012 The performance indicators relating to consumer needs 2012 saw a new turning point with the development are monitored daily at the production sites. The indicators of a Quality culture “in hearts and minds”. The divisions below are analyzed at division level by the Quality launched various initiatives to roll out this approach departments and at a central level for overall governance: (FOQUAL in the Baby nutrition division, “I Love Danone • Food Safety Index, to guarantee product safety based on Yogurt” in the Fresh dairy products division, etc.). As a seven indicators (good hygiene practices, good result, product safety and compliance indicators rose by manufacturing practices, HACCP, control and 2% on average in all the divisions and customer monitoring plans, biovigilance and traceability); complaints dropped by 20% in the Fresh dairy products • product compliance, to assess that the group delivers division, 25% in the Medical Nutrition division and products in line with expectations, in every country around 2% in the Waters division. Despite a slight rise in where it does business; the number of customer complaints received by the Baby • feedback from consumers, to evaluate their level of nutrition division (marketingand supply-related claims), satisfaction. indicators progressed for complaints concerning the industrial process thanks to improvements made in These Quality indicators follow a positive trend overall. defective products and packaging and the absence of In 2011 all the divisions focused their efforts on improving foreign objects. prerequisite programs and complying with good manufacturing practices. In addition, to ensure that safe and healthy products are delivered to consumers, Danone’s Food Safety Center evaluates and manages potential and actual risks. Any risk likely to be carried by products at any stage in the lifecycle (from design to production) can be managed. Scientific monitoring, with the assistance of international experts (Nebraska and Wageningen Universities, the Tokyo National Institue of Health Sciences, etc.), allows emerging hazards to be identified and characterized as early as possible and developments in linked scientific knowledge to be assimilated. The divisions’ Quality Directors define the objectives and measures to be taken to keep these risks under control. The subsidiaries adopt the control plans and reinforce them if necessary to adapt to their specific activity and their local environment. Danone Sustainability Report 2012 169 performance INDICATORS PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY Consumer health and safety Lastly, food safety is a responsibility shared throughout the distribution chain, «from farm to fork». To ensure the harmonization of food safety management systems and to ADD PR2 Total number of incidents of noncoordinate management of the various stakeholders’ compliance with regulations and expectations, Danone participates in active international voluntary codes concerning health forums such as the GFSI (Global Food Safety Initiative) and safety impacts of products which involves all players in the food chain. This and services during their life cycle, organization aims to create a shared platform where players by type of outcomes can each report their specific features and requirements, in accordance with local regulations and the CODEX In the classification used by Danone, the concept of stipulations. «incident» concerns the subsidiaries. Being of limited scope, as they do not lead to formal litigation or sanctions of any This shared platform also allows Danone to standardize type, they are not consolidated. «Crises» however, as and coordinate supplier management in line with their defined by Danone, can extend beyond the subsidiary’s regular standards as well as the group specific requirements. scope of responsibility and have repercussions for the entire group; they are thus consolidated at group level. 17 food safety crises were recorded in 2012. Danone’s crisis management procedure includes blocking, withdrawing or even recalling products in some cases, in collaboration with the relevant institutions, where there is a serious or direct risk for consumer health. In all cases, and even if the incidents are classified as a “crisis” under Danone’s crisis management process, in-depth verifications and enquiries are systematically carried out into the complaints to establish whether or not the group is responsible. 170 Danone Sustainability Report 2012 product and service labeling PR3 Type of product and service In addition to labeling, many Danone subsidiaries have created information and education programs for consumers: 168 programs of this kind were active around the world in information required by procedures, 2012 including several programs at a national scale in the and percentage of significant concerned countries. Globally, around 180 million people products and services subject to have access to those programs (9). This does not include such information requirements nation-wide programs in the USA, reaching an additional 350 million people. Danone’s products feature a nutrition label complying with regulations. Fresh dairy products and beverages (except mineral waters) also include a detailed information label, as defined in Danone’s own Nutrition Information Scheme ADD PR4 Total number of incidents of nonCharter. The Charter is consistent with the nutrition compliance with regulations and labeling system defined by the FDE association (Food and voluntary codes concerning health Drink Europe), based on GDAs (Guideline Daily and safety impacts of products and Amounts, or recommended daily intake)(4) and applied by services during their life cycle, by many food industry firms. Outside Europe, group’s type of outcomes subsidiaries apply the Charter where it is compatible with local regulations and sufficiently easy for consumers to In the classification used by Danone, the concept of understand. «incident» concerns the subsidiaries. Being of limited scope, as they do not lead to formal litigation or sanctions of any In 2012 nutrition information was listed directly on the type, they are not consolidated. «Crises» however, as packaging of 94% of sales(5), either voluntarily or in defined by Danone, can extend beyond the subsidiary’s response to regulatory requirements. scope of responsibility and have repercussions for the entire group; they are thus consolidated at group level. In particular, 41% of products contained Front Of Pack-type nutrition information, by means of a «GDA In 2012, 2 crises were recorded in connection with nonfor energy» icon in Europe and any other locally recognized compliant labeling. Where there is a serious or direct risk system (such as a «healthy logo»)(6) outside Europe. for consumer health, Danone’s crisis management procedure includes blocking, withdrawing or even recalling Similarly, indications of serving size on packaging were products in some cases, in collaboration with the relevant provided for 81% of sales(7). institutions. The nutrition information listed on packaging is often In all cases, and even if the incidents are classified as a conveyed via the subsidiaries’ consumer relations “crisis” under Danone’s crisis management process, departments and/or websites: nutrition information in-depth verifications and enquiries are systematically communicated in this way in 2012 represented 90% carried out into the complaints to establish whether or not of sales(8). the group is responsible. (4) http://www.fooddrinkeurope.eu/uploads/publications_documents/GDAs_-_Guideline_Daily_Amounts.pdf. http://www.fooddrinkeurope.eu/news/press-release/fooddrinkeurope-commits-to-new-efforts-on-voluntary-gda-nutrition-lab/ (5) 2012 Scorecard results, for the four divisions. (6) 2012 Scorecard results, Fresh dairy products and Waters divisions. (7) 2012 Scorecard results, Fresh dairy products, Waters, and Baby nutrition divisions. (8) 2012 Scorecard results, for the four divisions. (9) 2012 Scorecard results, Fresh dairy products, Waters and Baby nutrition divisions. Danone Sustainability Report 2012 171 performance INDICATORS PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY product and service labeling PR5 Practices related to consumer Danone collects and efficiently processes feedback from consumers to ensure they are satisfied with the products offered to them satisfaction, including results Today, Danone obtains consumer feedback via most global of surveys measuring consumer communication channels, including social networks, using satisfaction a specially designed computer tool capable of processing each consumer request and turning it into concrete action. Maintaining relations with consumers through consumer focus and local Over 70 % of Danone’s sales, including its flagship community based service products, are screened via this tool in regions with differing The primary mission of Danone’s Consumer Services cultures and languages in order to respond to consumer Center is to develop and maintain relationships with expectations on a daily basis. customers. This Center allows the company to offer advice as well as information. Viewed as a local community based service, it also helps gather consumers’ comments, suggestions and reactions. The Consumer Services Center’s objective is to rapidly respond to demands from consumers and to create added value for the brands. The Center answers all kinds of questions about the products and brands, and more generally questions about dietetetics and nutrition. It also deals with claims linked to product quality. The Consumer Services Center can be contacted 24/7, on the internet, or by phone (as the number is on the packaging). The mailing addresses of the Danone subsidiaries’ Consumer Services Centers are also printed on packaging. In France, for example, Danone’s Consumer Services Center processes around 50,000 contacts per year by phone, traditional mail and email. Its scope of responsibility covers all Danone products sold on the French market. 172 Danone Sustainability Report 2012 Marketing Communication PR6 Programs for adherence to In 2012 48% of sales had a nutrition claim and 20% had a health claim(10). laws, standards, and voluntary Most of Danone’s advertising investments are dedicated to codes related to marketing the healthiest products. For example, in 2012 68% of communications, including advertising expenditures on Fresh dairy products advertising, promotion, served to promote products complying with internal and sponsorship daily consumption nutrition standards. Danone’s efforts focusing on responsible communication Danone has committed to complying with the ICC or take several forms. “International Chamber of Commerce Code for Responsible Food and Beverage Marketing In 2002 Danone introduced a procedure to ensure that Communication” (11). The code bans, for example, all the health and nutrition claims contained in advertising displaying or promoting behavior that conflicts communications are consistent, credible and with a healthy lifestyle, in particular lack of physical scientifically valid. Inspired by European regulations, this exercise and excessive eating and drinking. procedure applies to all group subsidiaries, except in In total, in the Fresh dairy products and Waters countries where more stringent local regulations are in divisions, ICC Code compliance is 94%(12). force. It covers all commercial communications that contain health or nutrition claims directed at the general Danone is committed to limiting advertising targeting public, consumers and health professionals. It includes children between the ages of 3 and 12 to products adapted industry advertising and promotional campaigns in which to their nutritional requirements, in line with public health reference is made to a Danone brand, registered trademarks priorities. and other trade names that may be interpreted as health or nutrition claims, packaging, labeling, TV and radio Danone has therefore joined several local and regional commercials, brochures, vouchers, infomercials or pledges. This commitment was first made in Europe (13) in advertorials, press documents, content posted online, and 2007, followed by the USA (14) in 2009, Brazil (15) generally any communication that will be seen by the and South Africa (16) in 2010, and Canada (17) and public. Switzerland (18) in 2012. In most countries, subsidiaries’ compliance with these pledges is verified by an independent This is a multi-step validation procedure involving all of the auditor and the audit results are published. company’s main functions (Research and Development, Regulatory Affairs, Legal, Marketing, Sales, Medical Affairs and Public Relations). (10) 2012 Scorecard results, Fresh dairy products, Waters, and Baby nutrition divisions. (11) http://www.iccwbo.org/Advocacy-Codes-and-Rules/Document-centre/2012/Framework-for-Responsible-Food-and-Beverage-Marketing-Communications-2012/ (12) 2012 Scorecard results, on 25 subsidiaries of the Fresh dairy products and Water divisions. (13) Europe: http://www.eu-pledge.eu/ (14) USA: http://www.bbb.org/us/childrens-food-and-beverage-advertising-initiative (15) Brazil: https://www.ifballiance.org/sites/default/files/Combined%20Pledge.pdf (16) South Africa: http://www.cgcsa.co.za/index.php?option=com_content&view=article&id=48:the-south-african-pledge-on-marketing-to-children&catid=1:latest-news&Itemid=50 (17) Canada: http://www.adstandards.com/en/ChildrensInitiative/default.htm (18) Switzerland: http://www.swiss-pledge.ch/fr/ Danone Sustainability Report 2012 173 performance INDICATORS PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY Marketing Communication Alongside the other European Pledge member companies, A Steering Committee has been established, comprising the in 2012 Danone participated in defining common functional VPs of the Baby nutrition division (Marketing, nutritional criteria(19) to identify products eligible for Medical Marketing, Sales, and Legal) and a regional VP. advertising to children. In Europe, these criteria will replace those previously defined by each company, starting in 2015. External audits, done by independent auditors, have been In the Fresh dairy products and Waters divisions, 68% of systematized in all the subsidiaries. It evaluates the effective expenditure on advertising directly targeting children compliance with the policy. under 12 concerned products complying with internal daily consumption nutrition standards. The 4-year objectives and all these upgraded governance tools, have been widely shared throughout the company, With regard to Baby nutrition, Danone acknowledges and appropriated by all senior executives of Marketing and the importance of the WHO Code (“International Medical marketing functions. The topic is at the agenda of Code of Marketing of Breastmilk Substitutes”)(20). each of the regular meetings involving Marketing, Medical Danone is committed to apply all laws and regulations on Marketing and Sales Departments, and the progress made marketing and promotion of breastmilk substitutes, and will be reported yearly at the Executive Committees of respects the mission of Public Health authorities to develop Baby nutrition division and of the group. health policies that are adapted to social and legal context and to their development objectives. Danone is committed to follow all national regulations in relation to the marketing and promotion of breastmilk substitutes. Further to legal requirements, in 2012, the Baby nutrition division has implemented its own internal policy and significantly reinforced its governance tools and processes in that matter, with one person in the Legal & Regulatory Affairs Department fully dedicated to it. The policy is accompanied by ambitious objectives in terms of ethical marketing practices by the subsidiaries, at a 4-year horizon. The policy will be made public in 2013. (19) http://www.eu-pledge.eu/sites/eu-pledge.eu/files/releases/EU_Pledge_Nutrition_White_Paper_Nov_2012.pdf (20) http://www.who.int/nutrition/publications/code_english.pdf 174 Danone Sustainability Report 2012 ADD PR7 Total number of incidents of For Danone, the rate of compliance of TV commercials was 94.7% in Hungary, 95.7% in Poland, 99.8% in Germany and 100% in Portugal and Italy. non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning Corrective action was taken to handle all cases of nonmarketing communications, compliance. It should be noted that none of these cases of including advertising, promotion, non-compliance detected by the audits gave rise to and sponsorship by type of consumer complaints or to objections by the public outcomes authorities. Compliance with the European Pledge Crisis management Danone’s commitment to limit advertising towards In 2012 the group recorded 2 marketing communication children under 12 in the EU countries is audited annually incidents stemming from consumer complaints or by external auditors in various European countries as part objections by a public authority; they were managed in the of the “EU pledge on advertising to children”. framework of the crisis management procedure. In all cases, and even if the incidents are classified as a “crisis” In 2012 the audit covered Germany, Hungary, Italy, Poland under Danone’s procedures, in-depth verifications and and Portugal. The 2012 audit report indicates a 98.3% of enquiries are systematically carried out into the complaints compliance with commitments by all committed players, to establish whether or not the group is responsible.. as regards TV commercials. CONSUMER PRIVACY ADD PR8 Total number of substantiated PR9 Monetary value of significant fines complaints regarding breaches for non-compliance with laws and of consumer privacy and losses regulations concerning the provision of consumer data and use of products and services This indicator is not consolidated at group level. At corporate level, no significant fines have been registered for non-compliance with the laws and regulations concerning supply and use of its products. Danone Sustainability Report 2012 175 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 This Sustainability Report has been prepared with design, coordination and editing services provided by the Department of Organisations Development and Social Dynamics. This report is also the product of an on-going dialogue with Danone’s stakeholders. Contacts : Franck Aimé Organisations Development and Social Dynamics Director Nathalie Viel Corporate Social Responsibility Director Xavier Marcadé Corporate Social Responsibility Manager Vincent Crasnier Photography credits: ©Agathe Philbé, ©Ale Ventura Photoalto, ©Andhy Zakaria, ©Angie, ©Aytunc Akad – Sipa, Press,©Eric Manas, Nature Director Martine Piaia Governance and Nutrition Policy Manager ©Felix Hug, ©Guillaume Beguin, ©Hellio Van Ingen, ©J. Damase, ©Jean Bibard, ©Jose Luis Pelaez Inc, ©Laurent Vautrin Angie, ©Luc Henri Fage, ©Mac Gregor & Gordon, ©Melanie-Jane Frey, ©Numico, ©Ohle, ©Opos, ©Robeiro, Robert Chandan Majority World, ©Rodrigo Cruz Sipa Press, ©Shutterstock, ©Thomas Haley Sipa Press, ©Travel Ink, ©William Alix Sipa Press, ©Danone Environnement, ©Danone, DR. Design: www.landmarks.be Danone 15, rue du Helder 75439 PARIS cedex 09 France Visitors: 17, boulevard Haussmann 75009 PARIS Tel: +33 1 44 35 20 20 Self-evaluation of the application of GRI according Blog : http://downtoearth-danone.tumblr.com/ to version 3.0 guidelines for the GRI with approval by www.danone.com KPMG Audit.
