Sustainability Report 2012 Compañía Minera Doña Inés de Collahuasi Census of vicuñas (vulnerable species) Biodiversity monitoring programme implemented in conjunction with Chile’s Agricultural Inspection Service (SAG) Photograph taken by Sergio Tordoya, a mechanic at Collahuasi’s Climatisation area Our reports: Development over time • First Health, Safety, Environmental and Community Report • Report includes the key issues and aspects of the ISO 26000 Standard • ISO 14001 certification for the environmental management of • Redefinition of Sustainable Development Policies all the company’s processes • Priorities focus on health, education, environment, community social development, job creation and entrepreneurship and the arts, culture and heritage • Collahuasi Educational Foundation created 2002-2003 2009 • Incorporation of Sustainable Development approach • Survey of stakeholder expectations in accordance with AA1000 SES Guidelines • First Sustainability Report prepared under Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Guidelines • Double external assurance: NGO Red Puentes and Deloitte • Creation of Supplier Development area • ESUSCON project in Huatacondo, a pioneer in renewable energy 2004-2005 2010 • Development of energy efficiency issues • Definition of strategic sustainability undertakings • Incorporation of biodiversity issues and protection of fauna • Audit of application of accountability principles • Incorporation of stakeholder concepts, identification and ties • Application of SEAT methodology • Adherence to UN Global Compact principles 2006-2007 2011 • First Report published annually including Financial Statements Reporte de • Creation of Vice-Presidency for Sustainability Desarrollo • Redefinition of Vision, Values and Strategic Objectives in all Sustentable areas of the company • More inclusive communication with employees 2012 Compañía Minera Doña Inés de Collahuasi • Company headquarters moved to Iquique in sign of • Integrated Waste Management Plan commitment to the Tarapacá Region • First mining company in Chile to measure its product and • External assurance and compliance with GRI Application Level organisational carbon footprint A+ 2008 2012 Commitments and results ACHIEVED PARTIALLY PARTIALLY PARTIALLY NOT ACHIEVED 2012 Objectives 2013 ACHIEVED ACHIEVED ACHIEVED 100% 75% 50% 25% NIVEL DE NIVEL DE COMMITMENTS 2012 RESULTS 2012 OBJECTIVES 2013 COMMITMENTS 2012 RESULTS 2012 OBJECTIVES 2013 CUMPLIMIENTO CUMPLIMIENTO Achieve a reduction compared to According to the report “Proceedings-February 2013.V Final”, Achieve a reduction compared to 2012 in the 2011 in the number of sanctions or the company received 5 fines from the Labour Inspection number of sanctions or fines from relevant Validate and implement the proposal In 2012, the model for management of community working Carry out an evaluation of the organisations and fines from relevant labour, health Service and SERNAGEOMIN for serious workplace accidents and labour, health and occupational health for management of impacts on groups was implemented, providing opportunities for the community working groups in Collahuasi’s area of and occupational health supervisory infringements of Mine Safety Regulation. This commitment was, supervisory bodies. the community that arose from community to express its economic, social and environmental influence and the results and effectiveness of the bodies. therefore, not achieved. the Socio-Economic Assessment concerns and interests in a public, transparent and participative new management model implemented in 2012 Carry out a comparative study for 2010-2012 of Toolbox (SEAT) study in 2011 of the way. based on SEAT. the evolution and final outcome of fines from positive and negative impacts of the supervisory bodies. company’s operations. In addition, a system of community relations management through an online platform, developed by the Community Incorporate the risk management In 2012, a risk management and monitoring system was Implement a common risk management plan in The SEAT is a tool for management Relations area and the Collahuasi Educational Foundation, was 50% of community relations developed by implemented in order to improve control and monitoring of and monitoring system in all areas implemented in practically all areas of the company, permitting the Environment, Safety, Occupational Health Anglo American. internal procedures as well as to manage information relevant for of the company, with performance 1) identification of the high risks in each area, 2) programmes and Safety, and Risk areas of the company. Collahuasi’s decisions as regards communities in a consolidated, targets for each area and evaluation of action to address them, 3) implementation of a system efficient and online manner. It includes an online reporting of results. of 12 inspection visits each month to verify and control the system, facilitates control of the area’s KPIs and permits effectiveness of action plans, and 4) preparation of monthly management of various aspects of work with communities and reports. Performance as regards risk was incorporated into its traceability. each area’s KPIs. 300 risks requiring plans and control have been identified. Completar e implementar sistema de In 2012, the AA1000 auditing process by BSD Consulting Based on the results of the AA1000 auditing The highest level of risk identification and management, 100% involucramiento con los principales continued, geared to evaluation of the principles of inclusivity process, establish coordination among the areas reaching 90%, was achieved in the Environment and Safety areas, grupos de interés, que permita (how the organisation incorporates the voice of its stakeholders of the company with direct responsibilities which worked together with the Risk area towards a common considerar sus inquietudes, mejorar in decisions about its strategy), materiality (how the organisation for priority stakeholders (suppliers, own and management plan. These teams also evaluate the environmental la comunicación y lograr mutua learns which are the most relevant issues for its stakeholders) contractors’ workers and communities) in and safety implications of the risks identified in other areas. colaboración. and response capacity (how the organisation responds to order to draw up and launch a first stakeholder its stakeholders’ main expectations and the issues relevant engagement plan. The CURA risk management software CURA has been key for them). This audit took place for coastal communities for management of information and development of the risk (Chanavayita, Cáñamo and Caramucho), the company’s own and Increase direct work with organisations and management and monitoring system. contractors’ employees and local suppliers. In this sense, the groups representative of coastal communities company sought to take account of the concerns of its external 50% Chanavayita, Cáñamo, Caramucho to increase Complete definition and approval of The process of approving the 20 sustainability standards was Progress in identifying risks and the and internal stakeholders and improve communication with social investment in programmes and projects the 20 sustainability standards. suspended in 2012 in order to focus on the risk management corresponding management plans in the them. that are significant for the communities’ quality system’s incorporation throughout the company and give priority company as a whole; integration of controls and of life and development. to implementation and integration of the 7 fatality prevention However, a coordinated stakeholder engagement and response follow-up in the CURA system. standards. This objective will be redefined in 2013 by the system that includes all the company’s areas with direct Generate mechanisms for direct relations with company’s new management. responsibilities in this field has yet to be implemented. indigenous communities in the vicinity of the company’s operations. Achieve progress on the This commitment and all its components correspond to the Evaluate the applicability and integration of the Strengthening of Technical Personnel Mining Technical Personnel Strengthening Plan (FORTEMIN) products planned for 2013 by the Mining Skills for the Mining Industry Plan as Implement as part of Collahuasi’s This system can be found in the Environmental Monitoring Improve the public part of the Environmental which was suspended in August 2012 pending reactivation of Council, in which Collahuasi participates, as regards collaboration agreements website an online information and section of the website. It covers Coposa, the Coposa Salt Monitoring section of Collahuasi’s website, Collahuasi’s expansion projects. This objective was, therefore, regards the company’s needs in the training and and the system for accrediting monitoring system for environmental Flat, Rosario, the Michincha Salt Flat, Puerto Patache and incorporating indicators of terrestrial biodiversity postponed but not abandoned. development of technical personnel. training institutions, the system of management indicators related to the Leaching area and contains monitoring indicators about management, environmental incidents and waste certification of technical skills and Progress was, however, achieved on the system for certification protection of biodiversity (terrestrial intertidal and phytoplanktonic communities in Patache, surface management. the engineering and conditions of technical skills. In 2012, Collahuasi and 10 other mining and marine flora and fauna), and groundwater monitoring points in Rosario, monitoring of for construction of the advanced companies established the Mining Skills Council (CCM) under the incidents, waste management and one of the groundwater water quality points in the Leaching technological training facility. auspices of Chile’s Mining Council in order to provide information other aspects. area, monitoring of water quality in two of the wells located 75% as an industry that permits alignment of the supply of training for 50% in the Michincha Salt Flat, monitoring of water quality in the technical and professional personnel with demand in the mining Jachucoposa Spring in the Coposa Salt Flat and measurement of labour market as regards both quality and quantity. In April 2013, air quality and, specifically, PM10 particulate matter in Coposa. the Council published two studies: “Labour Force of Large-Scale Mining 2012-2020” and “Framework of Qualifications for the Indicators of biodiversity protection (terrestrial flora and fauna) Mining Industry”. Its plan of work also envisages other products: and waste management have yet to be incorporated. “Training Packages”, “Quality Framework for Mining Training Programmes”, “Quality Framework for Training and Certification Publication in 2012 of book on Publication of this book was delayed until the first quarter of Publication and distribution of book on Results of Instructors” and “Labour Skills Certification System”. Results of Salt Flat Monitoring. 2013 so as to include the results of campaigns in September of Monitoring of the Michincha and Coposa Salt 2012. This is the only pending task. Flats. 02 03 page page ACHIEVED PARTIALLY PARTIALLY PARTIALLY NOT ACHIEVED ACHIEVED ACHIEVED ACHIEVED 100% 75% 50% 25% NIVEL DE NIVEL DE COMMITMENTS 2012 RESULTS 2012 OBJECTIVES 2013 COMMITMENTS 2012 RESULTS 2012 OBJECTIVES 2013 CUMPLIMIENTO CUMPLIMIENTO Approval and implementation of a The definitive version of the strategy was drawn up and is Approval of Biodiversity Strategy by Board of Start construction of the irrigation Since 2008, the need to improve agricultural irrigation has been Provide further support for water management biodiversity strategy with specific awaiting approval by the Board of Directors. Directors and implementation of lines of work; canal improvement project drawn up raised in the company’s working groups with the Pica community, by farmers in the Pica municipal district, lines of work for integration report on progress of implementation during and awarded in 2011 for the benefit giving rise to the Resbaladero Community Irrigation Canal implementing projects for the reconstruction of of protection of biodiversity 2013. of Pica and Matilla farmers. Improvement Programme. Topographic information about the a total of 3,355 metres of canals (720 metres for in Collahuasi’s operations and 50% canals was compiled and projects with a total cost of 30 million the Miraflores water users’ community and 2,635 expansion projects. pesos were prepared for presentation for funding under Law metres for the Resbaladero Bajo community). N° 18.450 administered by the National Irrigation Commission Studies will also be carried out and a project No environmental incidents of No environmental incidents of Category 3 or higher occurred in No environmental incidents of Category 3 or (CNR). for the Cóncava water users’ community for Category 3 or higher. 2012. higher. presentation to the CNR and implementation in They envisaged construction of 5,491 linear metres of irrigation 2014. 100% canals (4,946 linear metres, 161 linear metres and 441 linear metres for the Resbaladero, Altillo Chico and Alto Grande water Maintain support for optimisation of No fine or sanction for environmental According to the Legal Affairs area, this objective was achieved No fine or sanction for environmental incidents. users’ communities, respectively). management of water resources in the Pica incidents. since no fines or sanctions relating to the environment were municipal district. received in 2012. The CNR approved these projects in 2011, making available 100% a total of 297,945,626 pesos for their implementation while 100% Collahuasi contributed 308,621,203 pesos. The total cost of Award contract for Integral Waste The direct award process launched in 2011 was halted in favour Award contract for Integral Waste Management the projects reached 721,814,525 pesos. The farmers paid Management Service and start of a tender which was issued in September 2012 with its award Service and start implementation of integrated for official procedures, certificates, administrative expenses, implementation of integrated waste scheduled for June 2013. waste management plans; progress report. management plans. 25% supervisory fees, measurement station assistants, topographical survey assistants and remuneration of the irrigation allocation administrator for a total of 15,808,308 pesos. Collahuasi also Carry out annual internal audit of The annual internal audit was carried out by Bureau Veritas Carry out annual internal audit of the contributed a further 180,206,529 pesos for infrastructure not environmental management system in October 2012 and it issued a Recertification Audit Report environmental management system in included in the projects presented to the CNR. in accordance with ISO 14001. indicating compliance with both ISO 9001 and ISO 14001:2004. 100% accordance with ISO 14001:2004. The projects were completed at the end of 2012 and received Complete the Closure Plan update When the study was on the point of completion, it had to be put Update the Closure Plan in accordance with the their state subsidy. A significant level of water recovery has study started in the second half of on hold for adjustment to the new Law on Closure of Mine Sites new Law on Closure of Mine Sites (Law N° 20.551) been achieved and, as a result, irrigation every 15 days has been 2011 and incorporate results in the (Law N° 20.551) published in November 2011. As a result, this which came into force in November 2012. possible as compared to the previous 27 days. Plan. objective was postponed until 2013. 50% Review and reinforce application of An integral plan for application of the 8 fatality prevention Based on results of tests of the HCT/ The operational problems that Collahuasi experienced in 2012, In order to reduce water consumption, achieve the fatality prevention standards. standards was implemented in 2012. Reinforce training and application of the 7 TTD high density thickeners, a target with the resulting drop in its output, meant a decrease of around a target of an average annual consumption of fatality prevention standards with the objective of an average annual consumption 2% in overall water consumption at the concentrator plant. raw water of or less than 571 litres per tonne of The plan included 16 implementation and reinforcement of avoiding fatal or serious accidents. of raw water of or less than 571 However, the production process’s low efficiency meant higher mineral treated in 2013. activities in Collahuasi and contractor companies in different litres per tonne of mineral treated is unit water consumption which reached 622 litres per tonne of areas, monthly evaluation meetings, preparation and distribution expected to be achieved in 2012. mineral treated, below the target of 570 litres. of a manual, plans for each area of the company, recording of progress in the CURA system, a course for internal auditors, 100% Maintain or increase the 77.62% Efforts to avoid increased water consumption were reflected in Maintain or increase the 78% reuse of process a Collahuasi management course, courses for contractors’ reuse of process water achieved in 78% effective water recycling in the concentrator plant, above water achieved in 2012. advisors/supervisors, courses for Collahuasi operators and 2011. the 77.62% reuse of process water achieved in 2011. administrative personnel, audits and other activities. Twelve of Carry out annual internal audit of the the Plan’s 16 activities were 100% completed. 100% environmental management system in accordance with ISO 14001:2004. Obtain a good classification in OHSAS Good classification obtained and certification under OHSAS Obtain a good classification in OHSAS 18001 18001 Safety and Occupational 18001:2007 and Nch. 18001 0f. 2009 from Bureau Veritas and the Safety and Occupational Health Audit. Maintain the recovery of the Recovery of the water flow in the Jachucoposa Spring continued Maintain or increase the recovery of the water Health Audit. National Standards Institute (INN), respectively, for the period from 05/11/2012 to 04/12/2015. 100% Jachucoposa Spring, achieving a and, In December 2012, reached 38.3 L/s. flow in the Jachucoposa Spring achieved in water flow of at least 37.6 L/s in December 2012 when it reached 42 L/s. December 2012. 100% Reinforce and implement training on Plans and lists covering a total of 2,217 workers for training (1) in health risks for all new workers. health risks (noise, UV radiation, silicosis and others) belonging Start operation of the first high The high density thickener (OT22/SET) is still at the pilot test Start operation of the first high compression to operational vice-presidencies. Training received by 2,043 workers, corresponding to 90% of the total indicated. 100% compression thickener (OT22/SET) stage, with its start of operation scheduled for the second half thickener (OT22/SET) in the second half of that will permit thickening of tailings of 2013. 2013, permitting thickening of tailings to a 68% to a 68% concentration of solids. concentration of solids. Implement improved methodology Review of documents identifying aspects of improvement of Draw up long-term GHG mitigation strategies; for carbon footprint measurement measurement methodology and of audits of the Leaching and evaluate these strategies and obtain their and study mitigation measures to be Puerto Patache areas identifying mitigation measures for each approval by the Board of Directors. developed in the coming years. area. Measurement of carbon footprint and GHG emissions in 2012 100% was certified in March 2013 by the Spanish Normalisation and Certification Association (AENOR). The result will be published as a single document at the end of April 2013. Consolidate development of In 2012, the Energy and Greenhouse Gas Management System Carry out energy audit in the Concentrator area the Energy and Greenhouse Gas was developed in the Leaching area and Puerto Patache and work to obtain abatement curves; update abatement Management System and its began in the Concentrator area. This implied energy audits in the curves for the Leaching area and Puerto Patache. application in the Leaching area and first two areas and preparation of their respective abatement define energy efficiency targets for curves, consolidating the system’s implementation in these two Develop and implement software to automate other areas of the company. areas, and measures to increase energy efficiency were launched. the reporting system for the company as a whole 100% for carbon footprint and GHG measurement, facilitating monthly evaluation of indicators and results. This will be assured and evaluated by the Spanish Normalisation and Certification Association (AENOR). 04 05 page page ACHIEVED PARTIALLY PARTIALLY PARTIALLY NOT ACHIEVED ACHIEVED ACHIEVED ACHIEVED 100% 75% 50% 25% NIVEL DE NIVEL DE COMMITMENTS 2012 RESULTS 2012 OBJECTIVES 2013 COMMITMENTS 2012 RESULTS 2012 OBJECTIVES 2013 CUMPLIMIENTO CUMPLIMIENTO Award Alternative Renewable Energy In August 2012, the contract for the ARE project was awarded Progress in applying the same quality Concern about the state of safety equipment, work clothing and (ARE) contract to supply Collahuasi’s to SolarPack, with a capacity of 25 MW for the supply of 60,000 requirements and standards as transport of contractors’ employees is expressed in the document operations with 60,000 MWh/year as MWh/year. Supply will begin in October 2013. regards personal safety equipment, GSSO-REG-001-Regulation for Contractors and Subcontractors, from 2013. 100% work clothing and transport of page 25. It is not reported whether specific action has been taken contractors’ employees. as regards requiring and enforcing the same standards of safety Promote and supervise certification At the request of the contractor administration area, 556 profiles equipment and work clothing for their employees as provided by 50% of operations contractors. are reviewed in 2011-2012. The Contractor Regulation-Skill Collahuasi for its employees. Certification provides instructions for contractors to implement the skill certification process. In the case of improving the quality of transport services, a 100% tender is underway for the company’s own employees and will be Information about the number of employees of operations followed by a tender for contractors’ employees. contractors who received certification in 2012 is not available. Deepen and expand supplier The Goods Suppliers Development Programme was implemented Implement a second version of the local supplier Complete design of the Leadership The Cimientos (Foundations) Programme (1) was launched in Apply Leadership for Supervisors Training development programmes for with 15 regional suppliers who completed it in January 2013. The development programme, More Suppliers for Supervisors Training Programme 2012 to strengthen administrative skills at the supervisory Programme to 40% of the company’s supervisors. suppliers of goods, direct contractors Programme had a total budget of 60,799,800 pesos of which the Tarapacá 2013, with a base of 28 suppliers and apply to 20% of supervisors. level. This coaching programme covers all company employees and transport companies. government’s Economic Development Agency (CORFO) financed of goods and services through presentation, with supervisory functions (vice-presidents, managers, 50%. In addition, a Supplier Development Programme for Direct approval and implementation of a programme superintendents, heads of area, senior heads, first-line Contractors was implemented, with regional coverage and the co-financed by CORFO in the framework of an supervisors and operators and administrative personnel). In participation of 18 suppliers from different sectors and was agreement between mining companies in the 100% completed in August 2012. It had a total budget 94,981,317 of region (Collahuasi, BHP Pampa Norte, TECK 2012, the Programme, which is supported by consultants and includes courses, e-learning, exercises and a magazine, was which CORFO financed 30.55%. Quebrada Blanca and SQM). implemented in the Mine Operations Vice-Presidency, the Concentrator Operations Vice-Presidency, the Operational The Transport Suppliers Development Programme was not Launch a programme for the development of Services Vice-Presidency and the Human Resources area. implemented in 2012 since a programme for this purpose was internal suppliers, identifying suppliers of goods implemented in 2011 and is in operation. and services that have permanent relations with Collahuasi and the potential to grow in volume of Achieve a higher percentage of In 2012, 22 apprentices were hired (19 in the Mine area, 1 in the Complete implementation of Mine Area Training 100% business or are suppliers that need to improve incorporation of apprentices into Mine Maintenance area and 2 at the concentrator plant), up from School, increase the number of apprentices hired their performance. Projects that are feasible will the company than in 2011, increasing just 1 person in the Mine Operations area in 2011. for one year in the Mine Maintenance, Mine and be identified and at least one will be presented the intensity of pupils’ practical Concentrator areas as compared to 2012 (22 to CORFO with a company that is relevant for technical and labour skills training The Mine Area Training School (1) was implemented in 2012 people). Collahuasi and includes contractors related to and increased integration with the and enabled Collahuasi to strengthen the practical training of processes to be strengthened or improved. FORTECMIN project. apprentices once they have completed the formal programme, 100% thereby ensuring entry of operators in line with the standard Launch a programme for the development of defined by the company. A number of installations were improved world-class suppliers, identifying high-impact for this school. This was carried out without coordination with challenges for Collahuasi and innovative solutions the Collahuasi Educational Foundation’s FORTECMIN Programme from suppliers of goods and services that address since this was suspended in August 2012. these challenges. In this process, 2 or 3 solutions from large-scale suppliers that have important Implement the first stage of the In 2012, a diagnosis of the CMDIC brand was carried out benefits for both parties will be selected. strategy for being the mining (Integrated Diagnosis and Strategic Definitions, Almabrands) but industry’s preferred employer among no other specific activities towards this objective took place. the company’s own employees and those of contractors. Continue improving camp The following projects were undertaken: Finish and start operation in the first half of accommodation conditions by 2013 of installations almost completed in 2012: completing the projects underway Inca Gymnasium. Completed and in operation since December Pionero Pub (162 m2), multimedia room (80 and implementing those scheduled 2012, for use of Collahuasi personnel, area of 200 m2. m2) and S-type Pionero building (1,550 m2) for for 2012. Pionero Gymnasium. Completed and awaiting installation of contractors’ personnel; music room (100 m2) for machines, for use of contractors’ personnel, area of 339 m2. CMDIC personnel and 2 recreation rooms of 500 Construction of F Wing. Completed and in operation since m2 each. October 2012, 204 rooms for company employees with a recreation room on each floor, built area of 7,330 m2, parking Implement and complete in 2013 repair of area of 6,000 m2. The drinking water matrix of the Pabellón del Pionero kitchen in order to improve conditions Inca Hotel was also replaced. for the preparation of food and permit its preparation as Production canteen (640 m2); Projects underway for March/April 2013: remodel canteen 460, the Coposa canteen and 100% Pionero Pub. For use of contractors’ personnel, area of 162 m2. laundry room. Multimedia room. For Internet use of contractors’ personnel, area of 80 m2. Music room, Pabellón del Inca. For use of Collahuasi personnel to play musical instruments; acoustic facility with area of 100 m2. Construction of S-type building in Pionero. In operation since March 2013, 96 rooms for contractors’ supervisors, area of 1,550 m2. Recreation rooms. Completed and awaiting official permits to start operation, 2 rooms of 500 m2 each. 06 07 page page Introduction 10 page 01 chapter 24 page Our company Health and safety of 02 chapter 44 page our people Building relations of 03 chapter 56 page trust with our stakeholders 04 chapter 108 page Protection of the environment 05 Our energy management: climate change and efficient use of chapter 120 page natural resources 06 chapter 132 page Our water management Appendices 144 page 1.President’s message [1.1] Dear readers, I would like to invite you to read our 2012 Sustainability productivity and the taking of decisions that will be This Report also contains information about other Report which gives an account of a very particular sustainable in the medium and long term. important challenges that await us such as the year for Compañía Minera Doña Inés de Collahuasi strengthening of relations with neighbouring as regards our operations and the organisational In this Report, you will, therefore, find undertakings communities and the environment on which our changes that occurred. In particular, the Report refers and measures that seek to recover the trust of our activities necessarily have an impact. We recognise that to our relations with our principal stakeholders our stakeholders and deepen the sense of belonging and relations with and respect for the area and communities employees and the communities where we operate. corporate identity that, together, we are determined in which we operate are key for expanding our to strengthen. To this end, we have established production horizons, improving our results and creating Within the framework of transparency and commitment communications processes, based on a new approach, shared value. That is why, in 2012, we intensified the with which we have prepared this Report, I must in which not only the company’s managers but also processes through which we provide information to mention the tragic death of three workers in February its supervisors actively participate. We trust this will these communities and engage in open dialogue with and May 2012 as a result of lamentable workplace enable us to transmit clear and direct messages to them in order to increase the transparency of our accidents. We have made our condolences and our employees, facilitating cross-area cooperation and activities and their trust in them. solidarity known to their families but we are aware that ever greater integration in addressing our challenges. this does not suffice and are reinforcing the preventive We will, in this way, also be able to hear what our Finally, I would again like to invite you to read and safety mechanisms that provide all those who work at employees and collaborators need to tell us, thereby analyse this Report and to participate actively in this Collahuasi with the confidence that, as a company, we enriching the communication that is the basis of sound new stage in which our overriding objective will be to understand that they are our principal asset. co-existence. We are aware that a Sustainability Report be ever more sustainable and, through our projects, to should refer to events in the previous year but, in this contribute to Chile’s sustainable development. In mid-2012, two of our shareholders, Xstrata Copper case, also want to draw attention to our undertakings and Anglo American, decided to intervene Collahuasi in and the efforts that will be required in order to comply a process led by a representative of each of these two with them. Companies are part of a history and a companies. Prompted by a deficient safety performance chain of events that, as well as being reported, must and low output, this intervention resulted not only in be taken into account when making decisions. This the appointment of a new Executive President but also must, indeed, be our mission if we want to implement in a restructuring of Collahuasi’s management and, processes of continuous improvement and become the Jorge Gómez naturally, in the definition of new strategic guidelines. administration that our employees and collaborators President Our priorities for the coming years include safety, require. Compañía Minera Doña Inés de Collahuasi SCM 10 11 page page Survey of contractor satisfaction 48% Our people 81% 85% 81% 84% 83% 73% of employees from the Meal services Pullman del Norte Transmin Truck rental Accommodation/ Laundry service transport service transport service cleaning service Tarapacá Region. service Health and 3 8 417 safety fatal disabling lost days accidents accidents Construction and Financing of initiatives 329 participants repair of irrigation proposed by Community Community canals in Pica: Working Groups: 90 meetings Envisages reconstruction of 5,491 linear metres of 13 projects implemented or irrigation canals being implemented 61 24% Suppliers local suppliers of total contracts with suppliers correspond to companies in the Tarapacá and Arica and Parinacota Regions. 2. Numbers / figures / milestones 2012 12 13 página página 14 15 página página Award of contract for Product carbon footprint: Our energy construction of the first Copper cathodes management solar photovoltaic plant 0.3974 1.6433tCO2e/tonne Cu 1.6526 tCO2e/tonne Mo located in the Pozo Almonte tCO2e/Cu cathode concentrate concentrate municipal district. 208.927 tCO2e/year 1.536.196 tCO2e/year 8.487 tCO2e/year 38.3 L/s 12.6 L/s Increase of Water water flow in 2007 2012 resources Jachucoposa Spring 0 Environment significant environmental incidents 3. Scope of the Report Preparation of the Report [3.5] The process of defining the Report’s content and planning its preparation was led by the company’s Corporate Affairs area. The information contained in the Report was, in addition, documented and validated by the different [3.2] [3.3] areas of the company which participated in its preparation. This is Collahuasi’s seventh Sustainability Report and its publication reflects the company’s commitment Preparation of the Report involved the following stages: to communicating its annual performance transparently to society and, particularly, its stakeholders. Planning Gathering of primary and Assurance and validation secondary information 1 2 3 4 5 6 [3.1] [3.7] [3.10] [3.11] This Report sets out the highlights of Collahuasi’s The Report was prepared according to the technical Definition of Writing Publication materiality economic, environmental and social performance protocols of the G3.1 version of the Global Reporting between 1 January and 31 December 2012. It Initiative (GRI), with the indicators defined in the Mining also reports on the undertakings made in its 2011 and Metals Sector Supplement and, as its key pillars, Sustainability Report and describes its challenges the principles of the International Council on Mining for 2013 in areas related to sustainability, defined in and Metals (ICMM). The data measurement methods accordance with its policies. and baselines used in calculations are governed by GRI [3.13] For the past four years, the Report has been externally assured and validated as complying with GRI Application [3.8] [3.9] recommendations and protocols and do not have any Level A+. The assurance was carried out by BSD Consulting with reference to the principles of the AA1000 standards limitations of scope or boundary. Although Collahuasi on stakeholders as well as GRI principles. As in 2011, the views of civil society were assured by Red Puentes, an NGO, adheres to the principles of the UN Global Compact, which placed particular emphasis on the company’s compliance with its undertakings. this Report is not presented as a Communication on Progress (COP) but does include a table relating the GRI indicators to these ten principles. 16 17 page page 1.1. AA1000 audit 4. Relations with our For Collahuasi, relations with its stakeholders are of crucial importance since they are what ensure the initiative and highlighted the attitude of transparency it reflected. stakeholders sustainability of its business. For the second consecutive year, it, therefore, hired BSD Consulting to carry out an audit of stakeholder perceptions, including: This results of this process indicated that the communities to address perceive the the Region’s company economic, as seeking social and • verification of the three accountability criteria: environmental situation and the related local and [4.14] [4.15] [4.16] relevance, inclusion and response capacity regional problems. In this context, they highlighted improvements in areas such as monitoring plans and • detection of opportunities for improvement the modification of the company’s social investment funds. • optimisation of information gathered for the 2011 [4.15] Sustainability Report. In addition, they indicated satisfaction on the part In order to define Collahuasi’s principal stakeholders, of these stakeholders with the community relations a classification drawn up in 2011 that measures The following stakeholders were included in the audit: strategy implemented by Collahuasi, drawing attention to their transparency and the ties developed. This impact and influence. enables the company to create opportunities for Employees Contractors cooperation and coordination with the communities Suppliers Community located in its area of influence as well posing a challenge in the form of an opportunity to position Collahuasi as 1.2. SEAT Study * [SO9] [SO10] one of the Tarapacá Region’s leaders on community relations. Under this classification, the company’s priority stakeholders are: In 2011, Collahuasi carried out a study using the SocioEconomic Assessment Toolbox (SEAT)* to measure The process was implemented by Fundación Casa de Employees the negative and positive impacts of its operation and la Paz, an NGO, in three communities in the Tarapacá Authorities contribute to improved dialogue with stakeholders. In Region (coastline, Pica and Huatacondo). In addition, Contractors Local regulatory bodies June and July 2012, a feedback and assurance process the SEAT study’s results were presented to 33 regional, Communities was implemented in order to report the study’s results provincial and local authorities and to representatives Suppliers of goods and services Media and validate them with stakeholders. This took the of services, social institutions, indigenous organisations Unions form of workshops with local players, who valued the and the media. Shareholders In 2012, the company fulfilled its undertaking to work directly with the following stakeholders: employees, contractors, *What is SEAT? The Socio-Economic Assessment Toolbox (SEAT) is a management tool, developed by Anglo American, communities, the media, authorities and suppliers of goods and services. The criterion used to select stakeholders that is used to improve a company’s understanding of the positive and negative impacts of its operations, was the search for representative sectors offering greater opportunities for improvement in Collahuasi’s relations contribute to more structured dialogue with the players that form part of the context for these operations with its different stakeholders. and enhance the company’s ability to manage social issues and be at the forefront of transparency and accountability at the local level. The study enabled Collahuasi to gather social information in the field, compile data about environmental impacts and systematise the economic information available. 18 19 page page 5. Definition of materiality Company viewpoint Stakeholder viewpoint [3.5] Information gathered from primary and secondary a) Company viewpoint Comptroller (Santiago Diez) In addition, the following secondary documents were sources was used to define materiality and obtain Manager for Water Resources (interim) (José Luis reviewed: two broad viewpoints that of the company and of In order to obtain this viewpoint, semi-structured Delgado) its stakeholders as the basis for identifying and interviews took place with senior management and Manager for Contracts (Gerardo Herrero) • Preliminary report of AA1000 audit: employees, prioritising the most important issues to be covered by heads of strategic areas. Manager for the Environment (Héctor Lagunas) contractors, local suppliers and communities of this Report. Manager for Personnel Development and Caramucho, Cáñamo and Chanavayita Through these interviews, the issues and aspects Organisation (Daniel Cabrera) • AA1000 audit report for coastal communities, BSD A qualitative methodology was used, involving the most material for development of the business were Manager for Community Relations (Luciano Malhue) 2011 review of secondary documents, as well as a quantitative identified for inclusion in the Report. The people Manager for Risk (Sebastián González). • Coastal communities, Pica and Huatacondo, methodology for the analysis of data and content. On interviewed were: 2012 SEAT report prepared in accordance with this basis, it was possible to classify the information b) Stakeholder viewpoint methodology developed by Anglo American and define the most important aspects. Executive President (Jorge Gómez) • Collahuasi’s reputation among general public, V-P for Human Resources (Fernando Hernández) Stakeholders were consulted through: 2012, Feedback VP for Sustainability (Juan Carlos Palma • Collahuasi’s reputation among opinion leaders, VP for Administration and Services (Tomás • Workshops with the coastal community Feedback. Martínez) • Focus group with employees, contractors and VP for Projects (Deepak Bhasin) suppliers Manager of Collahuasi Educational Foundation 20 (Jaime Arenas) 21 page page 4.2.1 Material issues for stakeholders c) Material issues [4.17] The issues considered most important by stakeholders are shown below, together with the section of the Report in In order to define material issues, the information gathered from stakeholders was crossed with issues identified as which they are addressed: material from the company viewpoint and the resulting issues were classified as priority or secondary. Stakeholders Material issues Location of information A matrix was then prepared, highlighting issues considered priorities for both stakeholders and the company and Perception of pollution on coast. Protection of the environment. to be addressed in depth in the Report. Other issues of lesser importance located in the rest of the matrix are also Investment in local economic development. Our community relations management: Key projects in 2012 / Social Need for investment in local economic development. covered in the Report but in less detail. development. Perception of decrease in marine resources. Protection of the environment. It is important to note that the issues presented below are “material issues” for the preparation of this Report, Perception of decrease in water resources. Our water management: Protection of water resources. Investment in and improvement of education. Our community relations management: Education. reflecting the perceptions, needs, preferences and expectations of the different stakeholders consulted. They, Community Need for investment in and improvement of therefore, warrant particular attention on the company’s part so they can be addressed opportunely and proactively. education. Need for job creation. Our community relations management: Education; 3.2. Improvement of technical-professional education. Commitment to our suppliers: 2.1. Supplier development. Perception of improvement of community Our community relations management: Community relations Matrix Stakeholder Viewpoint/Company Viewpoint relations strategy. methodology. Need for investment in infrastructure and Our community relations management: Key projects in 2012. public spaces. Perception of low response capacity on part Our People: Our employees. 1Need to establish relations of trust of Collahuasi. 21 20 8 7 2 with the community. Need to improve channels of communication Our People: Our employees; 3.3. Communication with employees. 18 High importance 1 with company. 22 13 2Need to improve management of Need to improve accommodation conditions. Our People: Our employees; Benefits and quality of life [LA3]. 4 water resources. Need for inclusion in company from a Our People: Our employees; 3. Career plans, professional recognition 14 10 4Perception of improvement in strategic perspective. and communication with employees. 19 Concern about safety and occupational health. Health and safety: Employees. community relations strategy. Employees 11 Need to establish relations of trust with Our People: Our employees; 3. Career plans, professional recognition 7Need for development of communities company. and communication with employees. Stakeholder viewpoint Perception of absence or weakness of Our People: Our employees; 3. Career plans, professional recognition in area of influence. corporate identity. and communication with employees. 15 8Need to improve accommodation Mid-level importance Lack of knowledge of professional Our People: Our employees; 3. Career plans, professional recognition development plans. and communication with employees. conditions for company’s and Need to recognise employees' contribution to Our People: Our employees; 3. Career plans, professional recognition contractors’ employees. company. and communication with employees. 10Need for a social licence to operate. Construction of relations of trust with Our people: Contractors / Management Approach / Channels of 3 6 company. communication. 11Improve communities’ quality of life. Improvement in channels of communication Our people: Contractors; Channels of communication, Satisfaction Need to improve communities’ quality Contractors with company. survey. Improvement in accommodation conditions. Our people: Contractors; Improvements in contractors' of life. accommodation standards and quality of life. 13Perception of negative environmental Low importance Construction of relations of trust with Commitment to our suppliers: Supplier development. company. impacts (pollution, decrease of marine Suppliers Interest in development of local suppliers. Commitment to our suppliers: Supplier development. resources). Need to improve channels of communication Commitment to our suppliers: Supplier development. 14Interest in strengthening safety and with company. 12 5 17 Perception of absence of an environmental Protection of the environment. 16 9 occupational health. sustainability approach. Our energy management 19Interest in integration of company’s Our water management. Low importance Mid-level importance High importance Interest in contribution to regional Our community relations management: Education / Social investment. and contractors’ employees. development. Opinion leaders Need to develop projects with effective Our community relations management: Investment by strategic Company viewpoint contribution in the Region. product / Key projects 2012. Perception of labour turnover. Our People: Our employees. Interest in safety and occupational health. Health and safety. Perception of low investment in installation Our community relations management: Education / Key projects 2012. and development of capabilities. 22 23 page page 01 Our company 1. Company profile 26 2. Sustainability approach 34 3. Associations and memberships 36 4. Awards and recognitions 38 5. Ethics and transparency 39 6. Regulatory compliance 43 1. Company profile 1.1. Background Colchane Camiña [2.1] [2.2] Cariquima Compañía Minera Doña Inés de Collahuasi SCM produces copper concentrate, copper cathodes and TARAPACÁ REGION Tarapacá molybdenum concentrate. It is currently the world’s Paciﬁc Ocean Lirima Cancosa third largest copper deposit. Huara Iquique Pozo Almonte Huasco Salt Flat Bolivia Pica Pintados [2.3] [2.5] [2.8] Coposa Salt Flat Collahuasi is a mining contractual company that exploits district, are referred to as the “Cordillera Area”. From three open-pit mineral deposits in the Pica municipal the concentrator plant in Ujina, a 203-kilometre slurry Puerto Patache district of northern Chile’s Tarapacá Region. It operates pipeline transports copper concentrate down to the SLURRY PIPELINE Río Seco solely in Chile and does not have joint ventures with filter plant and port facilities in Punta Patache in the Grande Salt Flat other local or international companies. Iquique municipal district. The molybdenum plant is also San Marcos COLLAHUASI located in Punta Patache, along with the port terminal Its industrial installations and its Rosario, Ujina and from which the processed products are shipped to Huinquintipa deposits, located in the Pica municipal international markets, in the company’s “Port Area”. Calama 26 27 page page [2.4] The company’s administrative offices are located at Baquedano 902, Iquique, Tarapacá Region and at Avenida Management as of Dec 31, 2012 PRESIDENT Andrés Bello 2687, 11th floor, Las Condes, Santiago, Metropolitan Region. Jorge Gómez SAFETY AND OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH MANAGER Hans Sandoval [MM1] En 2012, Collahuasi increased its mining exploitation concessions by 13.05%, equivalent to 18,673 hectares, due principally to its expansion projects. CONCESSIONS: • Owner of 630 groups of mining exploitation concessions = 161,681 hectares • Owner of 371 mining exploration concessions = 143,300 hectares • Holder of concessions on 22,820 hectares through Sociedad Contractual Minera Michincha • Owner of 15,293.62 hectares of surface land V-P FINANCE AND V-P DEVELOPMENT V-P SUSTAINABILITY V-P ADMINISTRATION V-P HUMAN • Land with mining-industrial infrastructure = 13,108 hectares (10,562 hectares SALES AND SERVICES RESOURCES belonging to Collahuasi + 2,546 hectares corresponding to authorised easements). Michael Farrelly Mario Quiñones Juan Carlos Palma Tomás Martínez Fernando Hernández Expansion project V-P CONCENTRATOR V-P MINE V-P OPERATIONAL V-P EXPANSION OPERATIONS OPERATIONS SERVICES PROJECTS In 2012, Collahuasi was subject to a process of intervention that included management Dalibor Dragicevic Alejandro Vásquez Ana Salazar Deepak Bhasin restructuring. This followed a drop in output and an unsatisfactory health and safety performance and it was decided that, in this context, the company’s priority should be to set its existing operations in order before pursuing the development of its expansion project, known as Phase III. As a result, this project remains at the pre-feasibility stage and no date has yet been set for the start of the feasibility phase. Ownership structure [2.6] 44% 44% 12% Anglo American plc Glencore Japan Collahuasi Resources B.V. Management as of May 2013 Front row from left to right: Tomás Martínez; Hans Sandoval, Ana Salazar, Marcos Bermudez, Juan Carlos Palma, Fernando Hernández Back row from left to right: Michael Farrelly, Deepak Bhasin, Jorge Gomez, Dalibor Dragicevic y Mario Quiñones 28 29 page page Production process SULPHIDES LINE ROSARIO MINE SURGE PILE STOCK PILE MILLING & FLOTATION TRANSPORT IN MOLYBDENUM FILTER PLANT STORAGE & CLASSIFICATION 203-KM SLURRY PLANT DISPATCH OF PIPELINE COPPER UJINA MINE CONCENTRATE OXIDES LINE HUINQUINTIPA MINE PRIMARY SILO SECONDARY & MILLING & STACKING TRANSPORT AND LEACHING SOLVENT ELECTROWINNING DISPATCH OF OXIDES TERTIARY CLASSIFICATION CELL FORMATION EXTRACTION COPPER CATHODES CRUSHER CRUSHERS Key organisational changes [2.9] The intervention process implemented in 2012 included changes in the company’s senior management of 3. The following new vice-presidents were incorporated into the company: which the most important were: Ana Salazar in Operational Services. Alejandro Vásquez in Mine Operations. 1. Giancarlo Bruno Lagomarsino was replaced as Executive President by Miguel Ángel Durán and Roberto Darouiche, Dalibor Dragisevic in Concentrator Operations. representatives of shareholders Anglo American and Xstrata Copper, respectively, until 19 December 2012 when Tomás Martínez in Administration and Services. Jorge Gómez Díaz became the company’s Executive President. Fernando Hernández in Human Resources. Juan Carlos Palma, previously Vice-President for Legal and Corporate Affairs and Communities, became Vice2. Brett Harries left his post as Vice-President for Asset Management since this vice-presidency was eliminated President for Sustainability with responsibility for Environment and Energy Efficiency as well as the above from the company’s organisational structure. areas. 30 Mario Quiñones, previously interim Vice-President became Vice-President for Development. 31 page page It should be noted that Collahuasi is evaluating Sales (tonnes) different options for extending the useful life of its Product 2010 2011 2012 leaching processes. It is expected that the option to be Concentrate 462,293 428,960 245,202 adopted will be defined during the first half of 2013. Cathodes 38,485 36,159 37,814 Total copper 500,778 465,119 283,016 sales 1.3. Output [2.8] Molybdenum 4,567 6,687 1,943 In 2012, Collahuasi produced 282,096 tonnes of copper, [2.7] down by 37.8% on the previous year, while output of Markets served molybdenum also dropped by 70.7%. Information about sales includes customers who have Output (tonnes) a contract with the company as well as direct sales to Product 2010 2011 2012 shareholders. It should be noted that all Collahuasi’s Concentrate 465,207 417,282 245,288 output will gradually be transferred to the company’s Cathodes 38,836 36,002 36,808 shareholders for its sale. Total copper 504,043 453,284 282,096 output In the case of the molybdenum produced by Collahuasi, Molybdenum 4,476 6,659 1,953 99% is sold within Chile while the remaining 1% goes to South Korea. The drop in output was the result of both exogenous and operational factors, with the former including Collahuasi’s copper concentrate markets (DMTs*) Closure Plan the negative impacts of the Andean Plateau winter. End of processing of Operating costs also increased significantly due to a Country % of sales 2012 Processing of End of operations at End of operations at Definitive closure of Operation stocks of marginal sustained increase in the cost of inputs that included leachable minerals Rosario pit Ujina pit Collahuasi Japan 24% minerals electricity, fuels, labour and contractors. South Korea 3% Year of closure 2013 2033 2045 2058 2058 Chile 24% 1.4. Sales and markets served China 31% 1.2. Closure plan India 18% * DMT = dry metric tonne In the period covered by this Report, Collahuasi’s total [MM10] The objectives established for the closure plan to update the information used in the plan, ensuring copper sales, measured in tonnes, dropped by 39% are to comply with the relevant legislation, minimise compliance with the environmental regulation in force as compared to 2011. This reflected principally a 43% Collahuasi’s copper cathode markets (TMs*) Collahuasi’s future legal and environmental risks and (including Law Nº 20.551 on Closure of Mining Sites reduction in the volume of sales of copper concentrate reduce the costs of closure activities. and Installations and its related norms) as well as to which was partly offset by a 5% increase in sales of Country % of sales 2012 compile, analyse and assess existing closure criteria in cathodes. China 52% In 2012, Collahuasi continued to work on an update the light of the results in order to introduce changes US 36% of its closure plan and will pursue this further in 2013. in Collahuasi’s operations and mining plan. A budget of South Korea 6% US$200,000 has been allocated for the studies planned Holland 5% The present stage of the process focuses on studies Japan 1% in 2013. * TM = metric tonne 32 33 page page 2. Sustainability approach Sustainable development is a key pillar of Collahuasi’s 2.1. Our strategy and culture [4.8] business strategy, guiding its approach to its production process and relations with its surroundings. In 2012, Collahuasi’s values, strategic objectives and policies allow it to develop its business in accordance with its Vision. the company implemented important measures related to sustainability. Our corporate values A key initiative was the creation of a Vice-Presidency for Sustainability to bring together all the areas of the Safety Respect Honesty Passion Recognition Responsibility company’s activities that are related to sustainable development and represent a common corporate vision of the concept of sustainability, taking into account aspects related to the exploitation of natural resources, the cultural and social diversity of the area Our strategic objectives where the company has its operations and economic 5. Efficient use of capital 1. A safe and healthy work environment aspects of its operations. 2. The sustainable performance of our operations 6. Efficient management of the business 3. Use of capacity 7. To be the preferred employer in the mining sector 4. Cost competitiveness 8. Growth (development and projects) The period covered by this Report was also crucial 9. Maximisation of value for shareholders as regards community relations. In this context, the inclusion of the environment under the new VicePresidency for Sustainability played an important role in permitting even closer relations with communities, particularly as regards providing information, In 2009, in order to reinforce its culture and leadership, Collahuasi defined policies that are grouped into three understanding their concerns and achieving reciprocal areas, each with their respective scope and principles for taking decisions. benefits. This approach permitted a recuperation of the communities’ empowerment and level of engagement Policies (*) in the company’s activities. Personas Negocio Desarrollo sustentable In 2012, the company experienced a significant drop • Human resources • Risk management • Safety and occupational health in output, with a critical situation in its operations and • Ethics and conflicts of interest in business • Quality • Environment • Contracts • Community relations and corporate affairs an unsatisfactory safety performance (resulting in • Water resources three fatalities). In response, its shareholders opted • Energy (*) For further information about these policies, see www.collahuasi.cl. to intervene the company in a process whose priorities were to restructure management and the company’s internal organisation. 34 35 page page 2.2. Risk management [4.11] [1.2] [4.9] [SO3] [SO5] Collahuasi participates actively in public policy through Risk management at Collahuasi includes risks related to the business, the environment, safety and occupational its membership of different organisations and business health and legal risks. In addition, it covers risks arising from planned or unplanned changes so they can be associations, focusing on issues related to the mining identified, analysed, assessed and treated properly and then monitored, reviewed and mitigated. industry’s main challenges or, in other words, energy and water efficiency and human capital. In the case of The company’s intervention in 2012 also had an impact on risk management, shifting its focus to the management industry regulation, it keeps abreast of developments of emergencies away from the planning of a system as had been envisaged in 2011. This was largely the result of the and makes known its views through its membership of need to restructure management and re-establish leadership before addressing risk management systematically organisations such as the Chilean Mining Council and across the entire company. the National Mining Society (SONAMI). Progress was, nonetheless, achieved towards formalisation of the risk management structure. Organisations in the Tarapacá Region The risk management challenges towards which the company is directing its efforts are: 1. Iquique Chamber of Commerce, Industry and Tourism 1. To advance towards convergence of all the areas of the company in order to be able to implement the Sustainable 2. Tarapacá Development Corporation 3. Iquique Industrialists’ Association A.G. (AII) Management and Risk System; 4. Saltpetre Museum Corporation 5. Jiwasa Orage Indigenous Development Area 2. To develop a common risk management culture; 6. CONAMA Regional Advisory Council 7. Centre for Research and Development in Water Resources 3. To progress towards a form of joint work that includes more areas than those currently involved (safety and (CIDERH) environment) in order to guarantee coordinated and systematic management of the risks associated with the National organisations business. 1. National Mining Society (SONAMI) 2. Chilean Mining Council A.G. including its Energy Efficiency in Mining Roundtable and Climate Change Committee 3. Chilean-North American Chamber of Commerce (AmCham Chile) 4. Chilean-British Chamber of Commerce (Britcham Chile) 5. National Safety Council 3. Associations and 6. AcciónRSE 7. Centro de Estudios para el Desarrollo (CED) 8. Centro de Estudios Nueva Minería 9. National Energy Efficiency Commission (CNE) 10. Chilean Chapter of Transparency International 11. Global Compact memberships International organisations 1. International Copper Association (ICA) Cooperation agreements and alliances 1. National Service for Women’s Affairs (SERNAM) 2. Civil Registry Service [4.12] 3. National Forest Service (CONAF) Collahuasi adheres to the principles of the RAMSAR Convention on Wetlands, the International Council on Mining and Metals (ICMM) and the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and has obtained certification for its copper cathodes under European REACH norms. [4.13] Collahuasi participates in different regional, national and international organisations in line with its sustainable development approach and its interest in contributing to community development. 36 37 page page 4. Awards and recognitions 5. Ethics and transparency [2.10] Initiative Initiative Collahuasi renews membership of Collahuasi signs Ethics and Transparency International. Conflict of Interest Declaration. Prize Prize Recognition Description Description Awarded by the ChileanAwarded by Fundación Awarded by the Ministry Since 2011, the company has British Chamber of Chile and Revista Capital of Education In 2012, it signed the declaration annually renewed its commitment affirming knowledge of the Commerce as an associate member of Chile company’s Conflict of Interest Transparente, the Chilean chapter Policy and declared that it had of Transparency International. This no pending situations requiring organisation promotes transparent analysis under its Ethics Policy. First prize in mining sector practices, integrity and honesty in Outstanding performance of Best Carbon Footprint 2012 in Third Ranking of Leading Juan Pablo II Bicentennial public and private institutions and Companies Mining Secondary School combats corruption. on Climate Change Initiative Collahuasi renews its Authority Manual. Description In 2012, the company renewed its Authority Manual which includes provisions relating to ethics. 38 39 page page 5.1. 2.1. Open Line [4.4] rules at all times and at all levels of the organisation as well as among the external collaborators who participate in the company’s operations by providing goods and services”. Collahuasi has in place a confidential telephone service, known as the Open Line, which any person, direct As a member of Chile Transparente, the Chilean chapter of Transparency International, Collahuasi also adheres to employer or contractor can use to report to the highest its Code of Conduct which states that: “We reject corruption in all its forms because it causes poverty, creates social level of the organisation any practice or conduct that inequality, damages the environment and undermines democracy”. is unethical or infringes the law such as ill treatment, abuse, non-compliance with social security laws, fraud The risk of non-compliance with Law N 20.933 as regards the crimes it specifies is included in the company’s risk or bribery. management system. As a result, organisational risks related to corruption are analysed in all the company’s business units. [SO4] In 2012, 19 calls were made to the Open Line to report possible cases of fraud and incidents of [SO3] ill treatment. All were investigated but it was not Conflicts of interest always possible to verify the information and reach a conclusion because, in some cases, the caller did not All Collahuasi’s supervisory personnel have been informed about and trained in the company’s Business Ethics and identify the person involved. Conflict of Interest Policy and, in line with the company’s annual practice, answers were obtained from supervisors on this issue. It is important to note that other possible cases of fraud were also reported. These were channelled through Communication of policies non-institutional mechanisms and investigated by third parties in order to guarantee independence and All the company’s employees and contractors receive information about its policies on ethics and transparency impartiality. which are published on the Intranet and in posters displayed at visible points around its installations. In addition, the Human Resources Policy specifically mentions Law N° 20.393 on Company Criminal Responsibility in “cases of money At the end of 2012, it was concluded that, although the laundering, financing of terrorism and the bribery of any public official, whether in Chile or overseas committed by performance of the Open Line as a reporting system an individual for the direct benefit of the company” and companies’ obligation to adopt and implement a Crime was, in general, satisfactory, response times need to be Prevention System in accordance with this law. shortened. [HR4] Finally, in the case of ethics and transparency, an incident of discrimination was reported. This was resolved through an agreement in the courts. Law N° 20.393 The Law on Company Criminal Responsibility establishes that, in the case of crimes of money laundering, 5.2. How we combat corruption [SO2] [SO3] financing of terrorism and the bribery of any public official, whether in Chile or overseas, it is not only the person committing the crime but also the company that is responsible, providing the crime was committed [SO2] as a result of the company’s failure to comply with its duty to provide instructions and supervision. Collahuasi’s Human Resources Policy expressly For further information, see www.collahuasi.cl. mentions business ethics and conflicts of interest, stating that: “We demand compliance with our integrity 40 41 page page 6. Regulatory compliance In 2010, in response to this law which came into force in late 2009, Collahuasi implemented a Crime Prevention Model which comprises the following elements: • Appointment of a Crime Prevention Officer • Provision of sufficient means and powers to the Crime Prevention Officer • Creation of a Crime Prevention System • Supervision of the Crime Prevention System [SO8] • Option of certifying the Crime Prevention System. 5.3. Government financial assistance [EC4] 6.1. Main environmental incidents [EN28] The total financial assistance received from the government over the past three years is shown in the table below: In 2012, the Environmental Evaluation Service (SEA) notified Collahuasi of fines and sanctions imposed under its Resolution N° 125 and ruled on the appeal (related to outcrops of water in the Patache area) as follows: US$ thousand 2010 2011 2012 Fine(Unidades Tributarias Mensuales Non-compliance VAT export recovery -20,932 -145,097 -163,195 UTMS) Tax credits and reductions Resolution N° 19/2008 Section 4.2 Appeal accepted SENCE 613 843 895 Resolution N° 149/2004 Section 3.2.2 Fine increased from 500 to 540 UTMs Credit for donations 2,255 1,141 257 Resolution N° 149/2004 Section 4 Fine reduced from 100 to 90 UTMs Mining licences 1,053 107 110 Resolution N° 19/2008 Section 3.1 Fine reduced from 500 to 400 UTMs 6% fixed asset credit 40 38 42 110 KTPD Expansion Project Chapter 7, Point 7.3.7 Fine reduced from 100 to 90 UTMs Total -16,971 -142,968 -161,891 6.2. Labour incidents and inspections Since 2010, Collahuasi has been subject to seven inspections: two by the Electricity and Fuels Superintendency (SEC), two by the Labour Inspection Service, one by the Health Ministry’s Regional Office (SEREMI) and two by the National Geology and Mining Service (SERNAGEOMIN). As a result of the fatal accident that occurred on 26 May 2012, causing the death of employee Julio Piñones Canto, the company was fined 50 unidades tributarias mensuales (UTMs) under Resolution Nº 3546, issued by SERNAGEOMIN on 9 October 2012, for contraventions of the Mining Safety Regulation detected at the Rosario site (specifically the Rosario Mine). An appeal has been presented to SERNAGEOMIN’s National Director. 42 43 page page 02 Health and safety of 1. Material issues for health and safety 46 our people 2. Milestones 46 3. Management approach 47 4. Commitment to the health and safety of our employees, their families and the community 48 5. Joint Management-Worker Health and Safety Committees 52 6. Key figures 54 7. Our contractors’ safety 55 1. Material issues for 3. Management approach health and safety For Collahuasi, its undertakings as regards health and safety are a key priority. Safety is the value that characterises the way in which we live and work. In 2012, Collahuasi restructured its Health ad Safety area, focusing attention on preventive systems or tools through which to control risks that could cause serious or fatal accidents and reinforce the leadership of supervisors and contractors as a vehicle for ensuring awareness of these issues throughout the organisation. The value of safety is based on a policy that is transversal to all the areas of the company and is governed by three Stakeholders Material issues principles: Employees Concern for safety and occupational health Opinion leaders Safety and occupational health 1. Culture 2. Milestones For Collahuasi, safety is a value around which to provide knowledge and create a corporate culture. 2. Learning 0 8 disabling lost time accidents The experience of incidents accidents at Port that occur in the company is a Operations in 2012 417lost days valuable lesson for avoiding their recurrence. 3. Discipline Occupational Rigour in safety means setting disease rate 2012 Coresemin simple standards. and non-negotiable awards for our 46 0 contractors 47 page page 4. Commitment to the health and safety of our employees, their families and the community How Collahuasi addresses fatalities: tools feedback and serving as a vehicle for discussing 4.2 Educational and preventive initiatives [LA8] Emergency brigades opportunities for improvements in methods of work. In 2012, three fatalities occurred, involving two direct By fostering face-to-face two-way communication, it Under its Safety and Occupational Health Policy, The emergency brigades are formed by volunteers employees Cristián Araya of the company’s Plant favours the correct preparation and implementation of Collahuasi implemented the following initiatives in from Collahuasi or its contractors. These units are Maintenance area and Julio Piñones Canto of its Mine tasks. 2012 to benefit its employees, collaborators and their responsible for taking decisions and action at the start area and Erwin Ruiz Gacitúa, an employee of Consorcio families and, thereby, comply with its commitment to of an emergency (as, for example, a worksite situation Abengoa Kipreos Limitada, a contractor working in the 4.1 Training in safety and occupational health their health and safety: of danger or a situation with the potential to cause Projects area. serious injury or loss of human life). EIn 2012, as part of the development of a shared • OHSAS 18001 certification These fatalities led Collahuasi to reinforce its policies culture as regards the value of workplace safety, a • Standards for the Prevention of Fatalities (EPF) In 2012, the company reached a total of: and tools for the protection of the life of its workers. number of training activities took place for both the • Legal assurance of aspects of safety and company’s own employees and those of its contractors. occupational health in accordance with mine safety In response, it has implemented two important These included a programme of training in selfregulation (Supreme Decree 132), regulation of basic preventive tools: the Standards for the Prevention of Fatalities (EPF) and Visible Leadership. care as regards exposure to breathable particulate matter/free crystalline silica through the Silicosis workplace environmental and health conditions (Supreme Decree 594) and regulation of operations 181 Eradication Plan (PLANESI). Workers considered to be at Puerto Patache (Directemar) The EPF comprises eight standards for controlling highexposed, personnel of the Cordillera and Puerto Joint • Establishment of a baseline for the Exposed trained brigade level hazards and eliminating or minimising the risks of Management-Worker Health and Safety Committees Workers Monitoring Programme and proper check-up members fatalities or serious injuries that may be present in the and representatives of the Collahuasi Workers’ Union of workers showing problems in the medical test for company’s operations. In 2013, all the company’s own participated in this programme. work at altitude employees and those of contractors will be asked to • Talks on application of the change management In 2012, brigade members received training in: carry out a self-evaluation of how the EPF have affected In addition, training in the protocol for exposure to procedure their daily work. noise (PREXOR) was provided for exposed workers from • A3, A2 and A1 (risk management based on Anglo • Hazardous materials the company’s Plant, Leaching, Port, Mine Operation American’s standards) • Industrial fires Visible Leadership is a component of Safety and and Mine Maintenance areas. • Training on health risks • Rescue at altitude Occupational Health Management that reinforces • Ergonometric risks: training modules and • Use of the emergency kit. communication between workers and supervisors, distribution in operational areas of a book on permitting observation of conduct, providing positive Ergonometrics for Workers. 48 49 page page Emergency plans Through its programme of control of operational risks (PCRO), Collahuasi has been able to control its different In 2012, local emergency plans were also drawn up business units and the contractors they employ. Using 0 for all operational areas and offices where Collahuasi the CURA software, the most significant risks present personnel work in both Iquique and Santiago. in each unit were incorporated into the programme, with controls and action plans verified monthly. The Restec, Rescate y Técnología company provides lost time a Professional Brigade service and, in the case of an accidents in Family health emergency, sends personnel to control the situation. 2012 at Port In addition, it trains Collahuasi personnel to become Operations members of the company’s own brigades. In 2012, the In 2012, the coverage of the company’s antinumber of Restec employees effectively required as influenza vaccination programme was extended to professional brigade members was reduced from 22 “We value this achievement and have highlighted the role include worksites and Arica, Iquique, Antofagasta to seven since greater use was made of the company’s played by all our employees in building a safe workplace and Santiago. It benefited the company’s own employees, its collaborators and their families, internal brigades, increasing the effectiveness of based on making things happen and avoiding things administering over 6,000 vaccinations. response to emergencies. happening to us.” In the case of risk prevention, an Emergency Plan was Luis Veloso, Manager of Port Operations drawn up for the Phase III expansion and, during May, In the period covered by this Report, different was explained to all the communities close to the In 2012, the importance that the company gives to activities took place for families, including principally company’s operations such as Cáñamo, Chanavaya, workplace safety was reflected in the organisation of: talks on subjects such as nutrition, alcohol and Chanavayita, Pica, Pozo Almonte, Alto Hospicio and drugs. The company also offers a health phone line Iquique. Together with the company’s Community for employees’ families and, through the Employee Relations area, it was also presented to the Tarapacá Support Programme (PAE), offers employees and Region’s government authorities their families advice on legal, psychological and other 28 matters. This initial service is free-of-charge and, if The initiatives implemented by the company in a bid to more specialised assistance is required, the person is prevent fatalities were reflected in the fact that no lost referred to a professional whose cost must be covered time accidents occurred at Port Operations. emergency drills by the employee or the employee’s health insurer. to evaluate local emergency plans For the community, Collahuasi has also implemented a programme of medical attention provided by doctors who travel from Santiago to Iquique. 50 51 page page 5. Joint ManagementIn addition to the Joint Committees required by law, Collahuasi also has the following three committees: Worker Health and Safety Executive President Vice-Presidents Managers Committees Executive President Vice-Presidents Managers Sustainability Committee As required under Supreme Decrees 54 and 76, all the company’s employees and collaborators are represented by the Joint Worksite Management-Worker Health Extended Executive and Safety Committees (Cordillera and Puerto Patache). Committee (EXCO) In addition, all contractors with more than 25 employees working at Collahuasi Their functions are: comply with the legal requirement that they have a Joint Committee. There are, • Monthly review of performance and compliance with the safety and occupational health management established at present, 43 contractors’ Joint Committees which are coordinated and audited by the Worksite Committees. in order to achieve the company’s strategic objectives; • Management review of the different systems of norms that the company has decided to certify; • The EXCO is also responsible for approving structural procedures and the Safety and Occupational Health [LA6] The Joint Management-Worker Health and Safety Committees (CPHSs) are an integral part of Collahuasi’s Management Manual. overall safety management, facilitating instruction of employees on efficient management of the prevention of workplace risks. In particular, training focuses on the proper use of personal protection equipment, enforcement of health and safety norms and investigation of the causes of accidents resulting in fatalities or disabling injuries. SIGEI Leaders The purpose of the Integrated Management System (SIGEI) Committee is to Joint Committees in operation: Joint Committees in process of creation: control the safety and occupational health management of its respective business unit. 1) Cordillera Joint Committee 1) Iquique Joint Committee SIGEI Leaders (Integrated 2) Puerto Patache Joint Committee 2) Santiago Joint Committee Management System) 100% of employees covered 52 53 page page 7. Our contractors’ safety 7.1 Policy on Contractors 6. Key figures Collahuasi’s contractors carry out tasks that call for the management of hydraulic, electrical, potential, mechanical and other forms of energy as well as work A key feature of the company’s policy is the joint work undertaken by its Health and Safety area with each contractor’s risk prevention department. This approach at altitude and lifting operations. In view of the risks was maintained in 2012, seeking to increase integration Absenteeism, occupational diseases, lost days, workplace accidents and fatalities by gender: [LA7] entailed by work of this type, Collahuasi’s programmes and alignment between the parties. for the support of contractors in preventive safety and Occupational Absenteeism Rate Injury Downtime Rate Accident Rate N° fatalities Disease Rate occupational health management are based on three 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 fundamental principles: Men 366.1 726.5 911.65 0.12 0 0 16.03 14.33 14.23 0.37 0.26 0.27 0 0 3 Women 21.97 107.7 150.2 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Accident rate [LA7] 1. Culture 2. Learning 3. Discipline N° fatalities Total LTI (**) N° To educate personnel and To provide information at A key feature of the company’s accidents 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 lead contractors’ safety and every meeting with safety and policy is the joint work Collahuasi 0 0 2 9 7 8 health advisers in order to health advisers and contract undertaken by its Health Contractors 3 0 0 19 18 10 share knowledge and generate administrators about incidents and Safety area with each Projects * 0 0 1 1 4 3 a corporate culture on these during the previous month as a contractor’s risk prevention (*) (**)= Lesiones con Tiempo Perdido issues. source of lessons for each of department. This approach was the company’s different areas. maintained in 2012, seeking [LA7] to increase integration and alignment between the parties. Principal contractor milestones in 2012: Occupational Absenteeism • Recognition from the Regional Mine Safety Council (CORESEMIN) in the Outstanding Worker, Joint Health and Safety Committee and disease rate rate Risk Prevention Expert categories. • Preparation in conjunction with workplace safety and health insurers of a training programme for contractors. The programme, 0 911.65 men 150.2 comprising eight standardised workshops, was given at the company’s Cordillera worksite. • Scheduling of monthly meetings with contractors to evaluate their proper implementation of the systems in force at Collahuasi. 2012 women • Analysis at each meeting with contractors’ safety and health advisers of incidents that have occurred in order to increase awareness and knowledge of issues related to safety and prevention. In 2012, the integration of contractors’ risk prevention departments and Collahuasi’s Health and Safety area increased, principally as a result of the extended safety and occupational health meetings that took place monthly. It is important to note that the parties are aligned as regards risk control programmes. In 2012, Collahuasi had an accident rate of 0.27 with a total of 21 disabling accidents and 417 lost days, representing an injury downtime rate (IDR) of 14.23. Absenteeism rate Occupational disease rate Absenteeism 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 Contractors 17.53 19.9 na 0.36 0.29 na 54 55 page page 03 Building relations of trust with our 1. Corporate governance 58 stakeholders 2. Our people 60 3. Our community relations management 78 4. Education: Creating shared value in the Tarapacá Region 88 5. Commitment to our suppliers 98 1.Corporate governance Board of Directors • Executive Committee (EXCO) [4.1] Compañía Minera Doña Inés de Collahuasi is a contractual mining company owned by Anglo American plc, Glencore Xstrata plc and Japan Collahuasi Resources B.V. and its Board of Directors is formed by • Extended Executive Committee representatives of these three companies: • Sustainability Committee Chairman COLLAHUASI • Risk Review Process Committee John Mackenzie • Human Resources Committee • Major Projects Committee Japan Collahuasi Xtrata Copper Anglo American Resources B.V. (TODAY Glencore) [4.2] The directors are senior executives of the shareholder companies and do not hold executive posts in Collahuasi. Their role is to lead the business, applying the guidelines and standards agreed upon by the shareholders. [4.3] [4.5] In order to ensure independence and prevent conflicts of interest, Collahuasi’s directors do not receive any remuneration from the company nor are subject to evaluation by it. Directors Deputy Directors Deputy Directors Deputy [4.6] The company’s bylaws and the Shareholders’ Agreement regulate relations among shareholders and between Directors Directors Directors Collahuasi and its shareholders. • Alberto Oliveiro (Arg) • Robert Frank Drabik • Marcelo Glavic Ferrada (Ch) • Felipe Purcell Douds • Naotaka Hayashi (Jap) • Koji Kawamura (Jap) • Louis Irvine (Aus) • Peter Forrestal (Aus) • John Mackenzie (Sud) • Barry Murphy • Roberto Darouiche (Arg) • Marcelo Jo López (Ch) • James Beams (Sud) • Alejandro Mena Frau 58 59 page page 2.Our People Our employees Material issues for employees Stakeholders Material issues 1. Management approach Perception of slow response capacity on part of Collahuasi Collahuasi’s people are its principal asset and are, moreover, key for the development of a sustainable mining Need to improve channels of communication with the company operation. Need to improve accommodation conditions Employees Need to be included in the company from a strategic perspective Given the complex situation it faced in 2012, the company has focused on recovering its employees’ trust and sense Need to generate relations of trust within the company of belonging, with the long-term aim of being a “preferred employer”. Perception of absence or weakness of corporate identity Need for recognition of employees' contribution to the company Leaders of opinion Perception of high labour turnover To this end, it has striven to foster a safe and healthy workplace, promote initiatives that are conducive to integration, improve quality of life and strengthen communication and dialogue as well as emphasising the importance of talent and employees’ professional development. 60 61 page page Key figures Workforce [LA1] As of the end of 2012, Collahuasi had a total of 2,865 direct employees, including those with indefinite and fixed-term contracts and 49 participants in its Apprentices Programme. In 2012, 227 people joined the company. Turnover [LA2] In 2012, 270 people left the company (263 men and 7 women), down from 579 in 2011. As a result, the rolling turnover rate dropped to 9.5%. (This rate does not include participants in the Apprentices and Trainee Programmes.) Gender [LA13] Out of the company’s 2,816 direct employees (excluding participants in the Apprentices Programme), 98 were women, representing 3.48% of the company’s workforce. Eight of the company’s executives were women. Women’s participation was highest at the professional level, with 85 women out of a total of 98 persons, equivalent to 87%. Workforce Turnover Gender 2.865 270 98 direct employees left the women work at employees company Collahuasi 227 9.5% 87% new hirings rolling turnover of women rate employees are professionals Activities 2012 3.1 Recognition incentives Both the Career Development and Internal Mobility Plans include procedures in accordance with the Collahuasi has in place different systems of incentives objectives, scope and flows they are designed 1. Update of the Performance Management for recognising employees’ contribution to the to administer. Under the Internal Mobility Plan, Model. company’s results. vacancies are published and employees apply through Collahuasi’s website (http://www. 2. Completion of the Cimientos (Foundations) Level Incentive collahuasi.bumeran.cl/aplicantes/home.ngmf). Programme. An annual bonus tied to fulfilment of a Supervisors performance contract. Subsequently, applications are filtered and 3. Implementation of the Corporate Leadership Operators and Quarterly bonuses tied to copper and maintenance interviews take place to select the person to occupy Model. molybdenum output. personnel the post. 4. Definition of a Functional and Behavioural The company’s policy also includes other forms of In the case of the Career Development Plan, a Skills Model for supervisors and operators. recognition such as written and verbal congratulations policy of objective evaluations is applied in order in order to draw attention to a good performance and/ to minimise selection of persons without clear 5. Definition of a Talent Management Model. or important achievements that are aligned with its justification as regards their performance. vision and values. 6. Definition of a Job Valuation Model. In addition, after each five years with the company, Internal mobility employees receive a present in recognition of their commitment. In 2012, 25% of vacancies were filled through 3.2 Career plans the Internal Mobility Plan. This compares very favourably with a market average of between Collahuasi designs career plans in accordance with its 15% and 20%. employees’ different roles. For operators (OAS), it has a Career Development Plan and, for supervisors (SPS), an Internal Mobility Plan. In addition, it is working to design Succession Plans for both supervisors and executives. 64 65 page page 3.2.1 Performance evaluation 3.3.1. Direct channels of communication with employees [4.16] [LA12] Employees receiving regular performance and professional development evaluations, by gender Collahuasi uses different mechanisms to maintain direct, fluid and transparent communications with its employees. These differ in frequency, the audience they target and the issues addressed. Women Men Total % Número % Número % Número Mechanism Frequency Audience Issues Supervisors 12% 80 88% 575 85% 655 PASS meetings Daily Safety (more than 6 months with the company) 12% 74 88% 531 86% 605 Intranet Permanent Supervisors Different issues 7% 8 93% 104 15% 112 E-mails Permanent All employees Different issues Executives (more than 6 months with the company) 7% 7 93% 93 14% 100 Different issues Intiminero magazine Every two months All employees and news 11% 88 89% 679 100% 767 Different issues TOTAL indefinite contracts Noticias Collahuasi newsletter Every two months All employees 11% 81 89% 624 100% 705 and news Operators maintenance Different issues News programme on buses Fortnightly personnel and news Only executives and supervisors who have been with the company for at least six months are subject to performance Somos Collahuasi newsletter Monthly Contractors Different issues and news evaluation. Publication of Bulletin boards Permanent All employees notices In 2012, however, a pilot performance evaluation programme was implemented for operators (OAS) of the VicePublication of Collahuasi Online screens Permanent All employees notices Presidency for Development and the Port area. Safety and risk Area meetings Twice yearly Area employees management 3.3 Communication with employees Safety and risk Meetings with Executive President Yearly (or when required) All employees management The company’s intervention had repercussions for internal communications and, as a result, the Labour Relations and Internal Communications area modified its approach in order to achieve alignment of both the company’s own 5. Local hiring [EC7] employees and its contractors and generate greater commitment. The changes included: Under its labour policy, Collahuasi gives priority to hiring people from the Tarapacá Region, thereby contributing • Standardisation of communications between areas; to its growth and development. In 2012, 48% of new hires were from the Region. In addition, the company seeks • Preparation of a guide on executive communication; to promote local hiring through two training and educational initiatives: the Apprentices Programme and the • Modernisation of graphics; scholarships it provides for students at the Mining Technological Centre (CTM). • Inclusion of a contact e-mail in publications to encourage feedback. 66 67 page page Apprentices Programme 6. Benefits and quality of life [LA3] The Apprentices Programme has its origin in a government plan for the training of young people that seeks to In 2012, the company’s employees made use of benefits that include the system of educational scholarships for provide them with the skills required for their insertion into the labour market. By supporting the Programme, their children and health and social security benefits. Collahuasi can contribute to the development of young people from the Tarapacá Region and the north of Chile in general while, at the same time, preparing professionals for the company’s own future needs. Benefits 2012 • Scholarships for dependent children, administered by CCAF de Los Andes In 2012, 89 young people graduated from the Programme, up from 77 in the previous year. • Severance pay based on years of service (with no upper limit on years or income, starting from the second year) • Contribution to employees’ pension savings (2% of base wage from the company and 1% from the employee) Pupils entering the Programme’s courses in February and June were as follows: • Inflation-indexed base wage (100% of consumer price index) • Soft loan Area Course February June TOTAL • Life insurance Mine Mine maintenance 20 0 20 • Medical and dental insurance (company pays 100% of premium) Mine operation 28 29 57 • School accident insurance Benefits for supervisors • Housing assistance Plant Leaching operation 5 0 5 with indefinite contract • Academic Excellence Scholarship for employees’ children Operational services 14 0 14 • Academic Excellence Scholarship for employees Instrumentation 8 0 8 • Complementary benefits Plant operation 0 25 25 • Performance bonus TOTAL 75 54 129 • Holiday bonus • Scholarships for studying English abroad for employees’ children • Optional talks, courses and/or seminars related to the business Pupils graduating in the Mine and Plant areas: • Preventive medical examination • Leave of absence in excess of legal rights Entrants Graduates 2012 • Contribution to employees’ pension savings (2% of base wage from the company and 1% from the employee) February June Total 29 12 41 • Inflation-indexed base wage (100% of consumer price index) Mine Benefits for supervisors • Life insurance Plant 33 15 48 with fixed-term contract • Hospitalisation insurance (company pays 100% of premium) Total 62 27 89 • School accident insurance • Holiday bonus Place of residence of apprentices: • Severance pay based on years of service (with no upper limit on years or income, starting from the second year) • Contribution to employees’ pension savings (2% of base wage from the company and 1% from the employee) Place of residence Total • Life insurance Place of residence Total 7 • Medical and dental insurance (company pays 100% of premium) Alto Hospicio La Tirana 1 • School accident insurance Antofagasta 19 1 Lasana • Housing assistance Arica 26 Pica 2 Benefits for operators • Educational scholarships: preschool, primary, secondary and university Calama 8 1 and maintenance Pozo Almonte • Assistance for purchase of school materials and administrative Canela 1 1 personnel • Preventive medical examination Punitaqui 1 • Leave of absence in excess of legal rights El Loa San Pedro 1 • Academic Excellence Scholarship for employees’ children Huara 1 Tocopilla 2 • Higher education scholarship for employees Iquique 57 Total 129 • Higher education scholarship for spouse or partner • Mortgages Replacement bonus 68 69 page page 5.1 Employee integration initiatives 7. Labour relations [HR5] includes different channels of communication that provide it with information about perceptions of its In 2012, the People Relations area implemented a worksite integration programme to strengthen identification For Collahuasi, the right of its employees to freedom performance in different spheres. In addition, the with the company and the commitment of its own and contractors’ employees. In addition, it implemented a family of association and expression is a core value and, as date of renegotiation of the collective agreement integration programme to tighten ties with employees and their families. part of its Labour Relations area, it has a unit (ESED) was brought forward in order to proactively manage that promotes best labour practices and seeks to the needs expressed by employees and forestall As in previous years, celebrations took place to mark different dates such as Miner’s Day, Christmas and Independence ensure compliance with the legislation in force. possible conflicts that would damage both relations Day as well as other recreational activities, both at worksites and in cities in the company’s area of influence. These and development of the business. included the visits of employees’ families to the Cordillera Worksite and Puerto Patache, theatre productions related Collahuasi’s commitment to freedom of association to safety and talks on topics of interest such as the family and personal finances. is enshrined in its Internal Order, Health and Safety [MM4] Norms which state that: “The most absolute autonomy In 2012, Collahuasi experienced no strikes lasting more of trade unions in relation to the company and, if than one week. There were, however, a number of 24more than one exist, each other will be safeguarded; hour stoppages and mobilisations. similarly, the free exercise of the right to trade union affiliation and disaffiliation and workers’ welfare, [LA4] [EC3] whether union members or not, will be protected”. Out of Collahuasi’s direct workforce, 68% (1,361 employees) belong to a union while, in the case of Other measures to protect this right include an contractors’ employees, 42% (2,141 employees) are Clause 8 of Collahuasi’s collective agreement includes contributions agreement with the government’s Labour Inspection unionised. to employees’ pension savings. These contributions are of two types, Service for the control of disloyal practices. depending on the employee’s post: 8. Education and training Four mechanisms are available for employees to report employees engaged in heavy work who voluntarily decide to make an situations that affect their freedom of association or [LA10] additional contribution to their pension fund in the AFP system or to expression: In 2012, Collahuasi provided 236,372 hours of training make deposits in a voluntary pension saving account (APV) for an amount for its employees, equivalent to 84.5 hours per capita, of up to 2% of their social security-liable wage are entitled to a matching • Open Line down from 108.5 hours in 2011. This reflected an contribution from the company up to the 2% limit; • Audits optimisation of the allocation of training, tailoring it to employees engaged in semi-heavy work are entitled to a company • Field interviews an employee’s post and own particular needs. contribution equivalent to 2% of their base wage if they decide to make • Open doors policy for attending public. voluntary contributions or deposits of at least 1% of their base wage. In 2012, Collahuasi’s relations with its employees showed a significant improvement that was reflected in a reduction in conflicts as compared to the previous year. This progress was due principally to the company’s relations model which 70 71 page page Total and average hours of training by employee category: N° of employees Total hours Average hours 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 Total workforce 2,503 2,784 2,816 294,532 302,102 236,372 117.7 108.5 84.57 Executives 91 96 125 4,318 2,455 9,476 47.5 25.5 75.808 Supervisors 530 674 685 34,956 34,223 70,336 66 50.7 105.93 Operators/ maintenance 1,882 2,014 2,006 255,258 265,424 156,560 135.6 131.7 78.046 personnel 9. Wage ratio Men-women wage ratio [LA14] In order to determine the ratio of men’s wages to those of women, each wage range was separated and the average wage received by each group was calculated, permitting comparison at the same level of responsibility or for the same functions. The results reveal highly positive trends, with wage differences narrowing from 15% to 4% among executives and from 36% to 31% among supervisors. Wage differences Difference Average base wage N° of employees by employee (%) category and gender 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 Women 5,392,137 5,958,639 6,886,488 3 4 8 Executives 11% 15% 4% Men 5,994,844 6,875,527 7,150,470 81 87 117 Women 2,198,946 2,182,086 2,383,735 63 79 85 Supervisors 25% 36% 31% Men 2,745,688 2,974,969 3,114,960 498 589 600 Operators Women 913,840 1,152,269 1,219,962 6 6 5 18% 1% 1% Executives SUPERVISORES Men 1,081,831 1,159,560 1,223,416 1,777 1,862 2,050 VS VS [EC5] The lowest wage received by a Collahuasi apprentice in 2012 was twice Chile’s legal minimum wage (set annually for the period from 1 July to 30 June). This underlines the company’s commitment to developing competent and motivated personnel. 36% 31% 15% 4% 2010 2011 2012 Legal Minimum Monthly Wage (MMW) Standard Standard Standard Difference Difference Difference $172,000 entry-level entry-level entry-level with MMW with MMW with MMW wage wage wage Apprentices 330,000 + 92% 364,000 + 100% 364,000 + 112% Trainees 693,136 + 303% 718,525 + 295% 739,511 + 330% Operators (entry-level) 835,072 + 386% 865,660 + 376% 890,943 + 418% 2011 2012 2011 2012 wage difference wage difference 72 73 page page Our contractors Material issues for contractors Stakeholders Material issues Need to generate relations of trust with the company Contractors Need to improve channels of communication with the company Need to improve accommodation standards 1. Management approach Collahuasi considers its contractor companies as a strategic ally of its operation. It has, therefore, given priority to improving the quality of life and accommodation standards of their employees and implementing more fluid channels of communication. Through the latter, it hopes to receive constant feedback as an input for proactive management of the demands of these stakeholders. 2. Channels of communication with contractors [4.16] Collahuasi has placed particular emphasis on establishing sincere and close dialogue with contractors, creating direct channels of communication in order to be aware of their demands, interests, needs and expectations. Weekly meetings with contractors’ representatives serve as an opportunity to analyse the company’s performance as regards these companies and their employees. The suggestions, evaluations and identification of opportunities for improvement that arise from these meetings are used by Collahuasi to design action plans. In addition, the Somos Collahuasi newsletter, prepared monthly especially for this group, serves as a vehicle for formal and transversal communication. Satisfaction survey As a complement to its meetings with contractors, Collahuasi carries out a satisfaction survey in order to better understand their perceptions of the company. This uses a quantitative methodology, based on a sample of all their personnel. In its main results, it shows: 5.287contractors’ 81% 85% 81% 84% 83% 73% employees working in operations and Meal services Pullman del Transmin Truck rental Accommodation/ Laundry projects Norte transport service transport service service cleaning service service 74 75 page page Collahuasi also carries out rigorous evaluations of these services and, based on their results and those of the survey, The aim of these initiatives is not only to improve quality of life through the practice of sports but also to generate draws up strategies for making the necessary improvements. opportunities for social contact and entertainment. 3. Evaluation of contractors New hotel and maintenance software Contractors are evaluated through measurement of their compliance with different performance indicators. In 2012, two processes for the acquisition of software were launched. The first, a tender for a hotel management programme, is scheduled to be awarded in April 2013 and will enable the company to optimise allocation of rooms This evaluation process, which includes contractors’ safety and environmental performance and labour standards, and improve the booking process as well as providing more accurate information about the presence of users at the reflects the importance that Collahuasi attaches to the sustainable management of its operations. worksite and use of the camp. Collahuasi has also sought to generate a relationship that allows contractors to play a role that goes far beyond the In the second case, the acquisition involves maintenance software in order to provide clearer information about mere provision of a service. In future, it plans to incorporate initiatives and opportunities for improvement it has the company’s goods and permit preventive maintenance, thereby minimising contingency events. Alongside this identified into contracts and performance indicators in order to raise quality standards. initiative, Collahuasi has used a tool developed in-house, known as ELIPSE, to update two databases for equipment and goods at camps and for offices and peripheral camps. 4. Improvements in contractors’ accommodation standards and quality of life Project Status m2 built Pionero Pub (contractors) Completed and in operation 162 Multimedia Room (contractors) Completed 80 Pionero Gym (contractors) Completed 339 Repair of Pionero kitchen (contractors) Underway 640 Construction of S-type pavilion in Pionero Completed and in operation 1,550 Recreation room Completed 500 In addition to these improvements, the implementation of sports programmes is being evaluated, with yoga, spinning, gym dance, Pilates and other classes given by certified teachers and professionals. 76 77 page page Financing of initiatives Construction and repair of put forward through the 3.Our community relations irrigation canals in Pica Community Working Groups 329 Involves reconstruction of management 5,491 participants linear metres of irrigation canal 90meetings Material issues for the community 23projects Stakeholders Material issues Need for investment in and improvement of education Job creation Comunidad Perception of improvement in community relations strategy Creation of new local supplier development programmes Preferences for investment in infrastructure and public spaces Need for projects that effectively contribute to the economic development of the Tarapacá Region Líderes de opinión Need for projects that make an effective contribution in the Region Perception of low investment in creation and development of capabilities Start of construction of housing in Jardines del Desierto and Esfuerzo por un Techo projects of the Techos para Tarapacá programme 78 79 page page Collahuasi has identified its direct areas of influence as those around its logistics corridor (used by vehicles related to its operations) and those around its operations. As a result, the communities on which it has a direct influence are Cáñamo, Chanavayita, Caramucho, Huatacondo and Matilla. The company’s impact on these communities includes both positive and negative changes in their inhabitants’ quality of life in the social, environmental and economic spheres. During the period covered by this Report, there were no significant incidents with an effect on these communities. 1. Management 3. Community relations approach methodology [4.16] As the Tarapacá Region’s principal economic player, Collahuasi has supervisors for each of its different N° of Community N° of meetings Collahuasi is committed to the development and areas of influence. Community relations are channelled participants Pica – Matilla 166 23 strengthening of its communities, seeking to ensure principally through community working groups as Huatacondo 36 7 that the projects it undertakes are sustainable. The well as through support for the implementation of Chanavayita 62 28 company implements programmes and initiatives projects and programmes, working meetings and two Caramucho 36 21 to improve the quality of life of the inhabitants of mechanisms for requests and complaints. Cáñamo 29 11 the different communities in line with their needs, preferences and expectations. To this end, regular Each community is visited weekly or more frequently The community working groups arose from the meetings take place in community working groups that in the case of discussion, development and/or conclusions of the application of the Socio-Economic are inclusive, transparent and participative and comprise implementation of a project or of a contingency. Assessment Toolbox (SEAT), a management tool three panels: social, economic and environmental. developed by Anglo American, and from work with the Community working groups NGO Corporación Norte Grande which recommended The outcomes of these panels determine the focus construction of a cultural profile and identification of of investments, permitting the co-construction of The company’s methodology for community relations the socio-cultural processes of Andean Plateau and initiatives and their legitimacy in the eyes of the is anchored in regular meetings with the main local coastal communities. community. organisations. Each working group comprises three panels social, economic and environmental that As horizontal, transparent, inclusive and participative 2. Community relations enable the company to identify and gain in-depth understanding of the community’s concerns and vehicles, the working groups permit the development policy and approach [SO9] address them proactively. of relations of shared value through which the company generates trust in the community and the community Collahuasi’s approach to community relations is defined seeks to create value through sustainable projects. in the company’s Community Relations and Corporate Affairs Policy, which is one of its five sustainable development policies. 80 81 page page Structure of community relations 3.1. Relations with indigenous communities The indigenous communities located within Collahuasi’s area of influence are a focus of constant concern on the company’s part and, in the framework of Chile’s ratification of ILO Convention 169, it has undertaken to maintain fluid relations that permit improvements in these communities’ quality of life. COMMUNITY REGULAR CONTACT WITH COMMUNITY RELATIONS MANAGEMENT [MM5] Within its area of influence, Collahuasi maintains relations VARIABLES PLANNING LOCAL DEVELOPMENT EVALUATION EVALUATION KPI with the communities of Pica, Cancosa, Huatacondo, Matilla, Laguna PLAN UNDERWAY del Huasco and Collacagua which include members of indigenous communities. Collahuasi’s community working groups serve as a vehicle for relations with these communities, enabling it to ECONOMIC LARGE PROJS. PROJS. SUPPORT IMPLEMENTATION SOCIAL PANEL FOR PROJ. ECONOMIC PANEL KPI SMALL/MEDIUM IMPLEMENTATION CONTINUES strengthen ties, gain a deeper understanding of their cultural characteristics, needs and expectations and build relations of trust that favour improvements in their quality of life. In addition, the company participates in the Indigenous Development Area (ADI) in representation of the mining COMMUNITY COMMUNITY industry. SOCIAL INVITES COLLAHUASI WORKING GROUP by community ECONOMIC PANEL SMALL/MEDIUM SUPPORT SOCIAL PANEL IMPLEMENTATION CONTINUES KPI WORKING GROUP by community PROJS. (General Vision) (General Vision) Relations with government services and NGOs ENVIRONMENTAL • National Forest Service (CONAF) for development of the Alto Hospicio and Iquique PROG. WORKSITE ENVIRONMENTAL PANEL VISITS SUPPORT ENVIRONMENTAL PANEL IMPLEMENTATION CONTINUES KPI Environmental Improvement Programme and the Pintados Geoglyphs Development and Management Plan. • National Irrigation Commission (CNR) in co-financing the repair, construction and rehabilitation of irrigation canals in Pica. • Corporación Norte Grande, an NGO, which provides support for the community working groups and technical advice to the company’s supervisors and to communities for the TECHNICAL SUPPORT FOR COMMUNITIES preparation, evaluation, implementation and monitoring of projects. CNG • Institute for Agricultural Development (INDAP) for construction of wells and canals in C Matilla. • Regional Government, Pica Municipal Government, SEMINAGRI, INDAP, CNR and CONADI, with which the company cooperated in relief after the landslide emergency in Quisma and Camiña. * For further details, see Appendices of this Report. 82 83 page page 4. Key projects in 2012 [SO1] [SO10] 4.1 Social development Collahuasi’s approach to relations with communities in its area of influence is reflected in the projects implemented in 2012. All the company’s operations have adopted compensation and mitigation programmes, geared to community Since 2011, Collahuasi has had in place a protocol for implementation of its programmes, projects and funds for the development, that are the result of the community’s participation through the company’s different working groups. development of different communities or stakeholders. This ensures implementation of the initiatives envisaged in the different strategic areas defined by the Community Relations area and fulfilment of the company’s social The following projects have been developed and implemented through the community working groups: responsibility programme. Stakeholders Material issues Collahuasi defines stakeholders as those individuals and public or private institutions whose physical surroundings Football school are or may be affected by its activities. The company’s Community Relations area is responsible for ensuring that Community Entrepreneurship Fund the projects implemented are aligned with its strategy, the views of the communities and the development of the Co-financing of forest fire truck Tarapacá Region. Pica Construction of wells in Matilla Contribution to cultural identity activities Irrigation canal improvement project Reconstruction of irrigation canals This initiative, proposed through the Pica Community Working Group, is managed jointly by the area’s Preventive support unit and emergency provisions farmers, Collahuasi and the National Irrigation Commission (CNR). The project involves reconstruction of Maintenance and management of ESUSCON System (under agreement with University of Chile's Energy Centre) 5,491 linear metres of irrigation canals corresponding to the Resbaladero, Altillo Chico and Alto Grande Huatacondo Contribution of oil for generator water users’ communities. The project directly benefits the inhabitants and farmers of Pica by increasing Contribution to Huatacondo school the supply of water for agricultural irrigation with the resulting recovery in yields and increase in the Contribution to cultural identity activities calibre of the fruit produced. Community strengthening programme Caramucho Contribution to spearfishing sports activities The government contributes 49.1% of the cost and the other 50.9% is financed by the community with Support for participation of Caramucho in international spearfishing championship support from Collahuasi which, in addition, financed the topographical studies, the design of projects and the work not eligible for subsidies under the irrigation law. Expansion of neighbourhood centre Improvements to fire truck As of end-2012, the first stage of the project had been completed. This included principally improvements Football school to the Miraflores and Las Ánimas canals, totalling 3,454 linear metres. Chanavayita Programme to strengthen Fishermen's Union Study of fishing areas Contribution to cultural identity activities 4.1.1Techos para Tarapacá Programme Improvements to fishermen's canteen Programme to strengthen Fishermen's Union Collahuasi is collaborating with Un Techo para Chile (A Roof for Chile), an NGO, in a bid to eradicate shantytowns Cáñamo Contribution to cultural identity activities from the Tarapacá Region. Projects are designed to comply with five objectives: the new housing is well located, Acquisition of pump for use in fires technical construction standards improve, public spaces are well equipped, a social integration process is provided (*) More details about each of these projects can be found in the Appendices of this Report. for families moving to a new neighbourhood and management of real estate is efficient. 84 85 page page The projects will benefit 118 families from the El from the government’s Economic Development Agency 5.1. Social investment by geographic location Esfuerzo II Committee and 119 families from the (CORFO) for the implementation and co-funding of Jardines del Desierto Committee as well as 103 families projects, forming a highly successful public-private Social investment by geographic location, 2012 from the La Unión Committee for whom construction alliance that is an example at the national as well as Social investment, 2012 began in 2011. regional level. Community U$$ per inhabitant Santiago 0.1 Collahuasi has undertaken to ensure high construction For further details of the Supplier Development Región de Tarapacá 13.0 standards, financing the difference in cost with respect Programme, see page 105. Iquique 15.7 to basic housing. As a result, the projects represent the Alto Hospicio 37.7 best social housing currently planned in Chile. Pozo Almonte 43.5 Huara, Pisagua, Tarapacá 49.2 5. Social investment Pica 218.3 4.1.2Local supplier development [4.16] Borde Costero 1,310.0 Collahuasi forms part of the board of directors of the [SO10] Huatacondo 9,512.8 Iquique Industrialists’ Association (IIA), an organisation that seeks to boost development of the local supply Under the company’s Community Relations and 5.2. Investment by strategic product chain by matching supply and demand. In addition, Corporate Affairs Policy and in compliance with its the company participates in a Public-Private Working strategic objective of “the sustainable performance of In order to comply with its sustainable development Group, formed by 35 representatives of entities our operations”, the following specific objectives have objectives, Collahuasi has defined the following related to the mining sector, which has five strategic been defined: strategic areas for the development of shared-value pillars: Entrepreneurship and Community, Education projects. and Human Capital, Suppliers and Value Chain 1To project the business over the length of the Development, Small Mining and Safety. deposit’s useful life Social investment by strategic product (US$) 2To build trust and the company’s reputation in the eyes of the community Strategic product Investment (US$) Investment (%) This Working Group includes a Sub-Committee on 3To contribute to the sustainable development of Education 7,195,305 54% Suppliers and Value Chain Development. Led by Environment 3,052,169 23% the Regional Representative of the Mining Ministry the Tarapacá Region through the creation of value Community social development 1,994,762 15% (SEREMI) and including Collahuasi, BHP Pampa Norte, 4To interact with regional and local authorities and Health 462,916 3% Teck Quebrada Blanca, SQM and HMC, this Subcommunity and indigenous organisations in order to Arts, culture and heritage 335,302 3% Committee focuses primarily on the development of work together in the development of proposals for Entrepreneurship and job world-class suppliers. actions and their monitoring and control. creation 251,500 2% Total 13,291,954 100% In this context, Collahuasi’s Community Relations area (*) For details of investment by strategic product, see the Appendices of this has from the beginning supported the company’s Social investment (US$) Report. (**) Does not include sponsorships, Pica and Iquique Art Galleries or budget for Supplier Development area, which forms part of its 2010 2011 2012 community initiatives by small territorial, productive or community organisations. Procurement area, providing resources for its projects, 13,362,558 13,758,453 15,220,467 publicising and assisting in its work within the company and collaborating in the management of payments. The In 2012, Collahuasi’s social investment was up by 9.61% Supplier Development area has also received financing on the previous year. 86 87 page page 2. Management approach As part of its bid to foster social development, Collahuasi has undertaken to contribute to improving educational standards in the Tarapacá Region through the Collahuasi Educational Foundation (FEC). For the implementation of its programmes, the FEC applies a model under which it supports educational establishments in the adoption of the best practices identified by research in Chile into the effectiveness of schools catering for vulnerable children. In 2012, education accounted for 42% of social investment by Collahuasi. 4. Education: Creating Mission shared value in the To make a sustained contribution from Tarapacá Region a long-term perspective to improving education in the Tarapacá Region, focusing on technical-professional education in line with the company’s interest in supporting the sustainable development of communities close to its operations. 1. Key figures Investment in Collahuasi Educational Foundation (US$) STRATEGY MODEL STRATEGIC PILLARS 2,050,210 • To create a focus of application • The Collahuasi Educational • Improvement of primary and 2010 of educational practices of Foundation, together with technical schooling. 3,610,360 excellence, capable of irradiating its knowledge and experience its collaborators, seeks to improve the educational • Public-private alliance. • Empowerment of local players to other primary and secondary attainment of children and through collaboration in 2011 schools in the Region. young people through teacher management of results. professionalisation, high5,942,920 quality school management and the involvement of families. 2012 88 89 page page 3. Lines of action: Results for schools participating in the Educational Improvement Programme in the national SIMCE test of 4th year In order to fulfil its mission, the Collahuasi Educational Foundation (FEC) has defined the following lines of action: primary pupils: 3.1. Improvement of primary schooling IQUIQUE PROVINCE LANGUAGE MATHEMATICS School 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 The FEC has developed programmes, initiatives and research in a bid to improve pupils’ attainment and, in 2012, Chanavayita 185 241 230 260 235 174 200 212 279 269 developed the following projects in the area of primary schooling: Colegio Simón Bolívar 211 231 235 201 224 185 194 214 196 231 Escuela Gabriela Mistral 206 242 259 249 268 197 223 238 228 251 Stakeholders Material issue Escuela Plácido Villarroel 233 207 246 241 235 223 190 234 236 239 Primary Schooling Improvement Programmes Implemented since 2009 in 17 primary schools in the Tarapacá Region to improve the quality of education through integral advice on school management and learning processes that foster an Escuela Patricio Lynch 229 S/I 256 237 243 224 S/I 239 232 234 • Boosting Schools organisational change in these schools. Escuela San Marcos S/I S/I S/I S/I 252 S/I S/I S/I S/I 254 • Best School WEIGHTED AVERAGE 222 230 250 234 241 201 206 233 228 239 Diagnosis of schools participating in Primary In 2012, the schools advised by Aptus and Fundación Chile were in the final phase of the Schooling Improvement Programmes improvement plans implemented since 2009. In order to define the areas and focus of work in a new period of support, a study of the results was carried out by an external team. Study: “Results and projections of the DEL TAMARUGAL PROVINCE LANGUAGE MATHEMATICS Collahuasi Educational Foundation’s School 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 strategies of support for educational improvement” Escuela Básica Fronteriza Colchane 256 250 268 212 244 201 245 249 212 255 Best School Programme in Navidad and Juan In 2012, implementation of the Best Primary School and Best Secondary School Programmes Escuela Camiña 254 244 287 285 237 229 248 242 274 240 Fernández continued in Juan Fernández and Navidad, respectively, both of which were rebuilt by Collahuasi after their destruction by the earthquake and tsunami of February 2010. Liceo de Huara 236 211 248 235 209 227 217 214 194 181 Independent evaluation: SEPA test This measurement has been carried out since 2010 by the Measurement Centre of the Escuela Vertiente del Saber 261 214 262 230 259 269 210 272 235 266 Catholic University of Chile (MIDE UC) to assess the progress of the Educational Improvement Escuela Matilla de Nueva Extremadura 255 256 273 201 240 237 279 274 210 237 Programmes. Escuela San Andrés de Pica 263 230 271 282 252 252 212 255 268 268 Engaging Families Programme Implemented since 2010 in 7 primary schools in Iquique and Alto Hospicio, this Programme seeks FEC receives a letter from UNICEF’s to increase parents’ involvement in their children’s learning processes by improving institutional Escuela Básica La Tirana 225 245 242 234 225 211 228 197 203 209 representative in Chile stating that conditions and teachers’ skills as a way of contributing to pupil attainment. Escuela Básica Estrella del Sur 229 215 249 216 244 209 213 220 202 233 its alliance with Collahuasi has been a successful experience from which to Escuela Básica Pozo Almonte 240 237 253 248 233 215 220 240 225 226 learn. WEIGHTED AVERAGE 239 227 256 234 240 220 221 236 220 235 Entre Niños Programme The Entre Niños (Among Children) Programme seeks to support emotional-social development in the classroom through both teacher training and the application of the Psychoeducational Programme for pupils. Del Tamarugal School Libraries This project seeks to promote the development of critical and thoughtful reading, equipping Implementation Project children to read texts of all types as well as developing an interest in reading in the community related to the school. School Website Programme Launched in 2010, this Programme provides school with advice on the creation of their websites. Gabriela Mistral Prize for Certification of Launched in 2007 by the educational area of Fundación Chile and the National Certification Schools and School Management Council and, since 2010, with the participation of the Collahuasi Educational Foundation, the National Gabriela Mistral Prize seeks to promote school management and foster a culture of quality in schools in the Tarapacá Region. 90 91 page page Weighted average of results for schools participating in the Educational Improvement Programme in the national SIMCE test of 4th year primary pupils: 4th primary year SIMCE test Weighted average for schools participating in the Educational Improvement Programme in the Iquique Province Language Mathematics SCORE SCORE Schools participating in the Educational Improvement Programme in the Iquique Province showed a sustained improvement in 2008-2012, with a drop 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2009 2010 2011 2012 only in 2011. In both language and mathematics, they achieved significant progress, with their scores increasing by 19 and 33 points, respectively, exceeding the corresponding increases for municipal schools in the Region by 18 and 23 points. The increase exceeded that of municipal schools in the Region by 29-point larger increase than 18 points for Language and in municipal schools in the Region 23 points for mathematics in in 2012/2008. 2012/2008. 4th primary year SIMCE test Weighted average for schools participating in the Educational Improvement Programme in the Del Tamarugal Province Experience of the San Andrés de Pica School Language Mathematics “This support has had a direct impact on our SCORE SCORE school. We improved our score in the SIMCE 2012 test and are above the level of other schools in Chile with a similar socioeconomic level. Moreover, in 2011, we achieved an outstanding score at the national level.” Héctor Cuevas. Director, San Andrés de Pica School Testimony 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Same performance as 10-point larger increase than municipal schools in the Region in in municipal schools in the Region 2012/2008. in 2012/2008. 92 93 page page The schools in the Del Tamarugal Province that are participating in the Programme performed unevenly in language and mathematics, following a trend seen in many other schools in the Province, with a significant improvement only in 2010. In language, there was no significant improvement, at least not at the aggregate level, and, as in the Province as a whole, their SIMCE score increased by only one point. In mathematics, however, schools in the Programme achieved a 15-point increase in their score, five points more than municipal schools in the Tarapacá Region. 3.2. Improvement of technical-professional education The Collahuasi Educational Foundation is also committed to improving the quality of technical-professional education in the Tarapacá Region. In this field, it seeks to create effective ties between the education sector and industry and, particularly, the mining industry as a way of improving the attainment and employability of pupils from the Region’s seven technical-professional secondary schools. Milestones 2012 In order to comply with this objective, it develops the following programmes and initiatives: A. Secondary Technical-Professional Education Improvement Programmes: In a public tender, the Alto Hospicio Municipal Government awarded the Collahuasi Educational Foundation the concession to Programme administer the Liceo Minero Bicentenario S.S. Secondary Technical-Professional Education In 2012, the advisory phase of this Programme began in six technical-professional schools in the Juan Pablo II. Improvement Programme Tarapacá Region. Using a skills for employability model, the Preparado Minero (Prepared Miner) Programme Collahuasi Preparado Minero Programme provides tools to facilitate insertion into the labour market through the development of labour and entrepreneurship skills. As in the case of primary schools, the SEPA test of the Measurement Centre of the Catholic Month Milestone Independent evaluation University of Chile (MIDE UC) was used in 2012 to evaluate the seven technical-professional Start of classes with 9 courses and 170 students from 7th primary year through to 4th secondary schools participating in the Technical-Professional Education Improvement Programme. March year; each pupil was provided with a track suit, 2 t-shirts, a tie and a rucksack with exercise books As part of its Educational Improvement Programme, the Collahuasi Educational Foundation and set of school supplies. Relating to Collahuasi Programme implements the Relating to Collahuasi Programme to strengthen ties between the education Improvements in the school's infrastructure and equipment financed through the Education sector and industry. January-August Ministry's Bicentennial resources. The Collahuasi Educational Foundation contributed a fund for the acquisition of technological Start of use of new classrooms equipped with digital whiteboard, lockers, new furniture, curtains Implementation of language, mathematics August and didactic equipment to support the areas targeted by the technical assistance provided and data show. and science laboratories through the Technical-Professional Educational Improvement Programme. School inauguration attended by Mining Minister, Undersecretary of Education, Mayor of Alto Implemented in the Obispo Labbé School since mid-2008, this Programme provides pupils September Hospicio, Governor of the Tarapacá Region, representatives of Collahuasi and the Collahuasi specialising in electronics and electricity with training in information technologies, using latestEducational Foundation, regional authorities, pupils and parents. CISCO IT Essentials, Computer Hardware and generation technological media and teaching methods. The objective is to create a solid mass Software Course New library with 4,500 books provided for the school with the support of the Collahuasi of mid-level professionals prepared for insertion in the labour market or to go on to higher October education. Educational Foundation. November Admission process with 600 applications for 200 new places and 320 pupils enrolled for 2013. B. Liceo Minero Bicentenario S.S. Juan Pablo II Project Results and achievements In 2011, with the support of the Collahuasi Educational Foundation, the Alto Hospicio Municipal Government A year after the launch of this project, early achievements are already evident in measurements carried out by the presented the Juan Pablo II Secondary School to the Education Ministry’s Bicentennial Secondary Schools of Education Ministry. Excellence competition. It was judged the best project out of 94 schools from around Chile and became the Juan Pablo II Bicentennial Mining Secondary School. The Liceo Minero Bicentenario S.S. Juan Pablo II is recognised by the Education Ministry’s Committed to high academic standards and values, the school will offer new academic and work alternatives, National Director of Bicentennial Projects complemented by technical-professional specialisation alternatives geared to pupils’ employability in the mining for its excellent progress in mathematics and industry and the possibility of going on to higher education. This project was developed jointly by the Alto Hospicio language. Municipal Government, the Education Ministry and the Collahuasi Educational Foundation. 94 95 page page Bicentennial test The achievements are apparent in both tests, showing 7th year primary pupils that, with constant work and a sense of mission and commitment, progress is possible. In the case of the Experience of the Liceo Bicentenario Minero S.S. Juan Pablo II March 2012 SIMCE test, the Education Ministry drew attention to “The support of the Collahuasi Educational Foundation has been very important as regards Language 42% achievement the school as having achieved the largest increase in score in the country. management of the school’s personnel, implementation and administration of its resources and all its contribution to improving our school’s performance. Without doubt, the progress seen in our results is anchored in the strategic alliance between the Foundation, the Alto Mathematics 41% achievement SIMCE test Hospicio Municipal Government, the Education Ministry and the Educational Corporation of the National Agricultural Society (SNA Educa) and the different measures, plus good management, allow us to achieve good academic results. Without the Foundation’s support, 2nd year secondary pupils this school wouldn’t be what it is today.” December 2012 César Gavilán MATHEMATICS LANGUAGE Director, Liceo Bicentenario Minero SS Juan Pablo II Language 42% achievement POINTS Testimony 3.3. Tarapacá Quality of Education 2010-2020 41% Mathematics Initiative achievement In order to manage and develop a regional educational SIMCE strategy, the Collahuasi Educational Foundation, 2° Medio together with central government, regional and citizen organisations, has set up the Education and Work 2010 Roundtable. LENGUAJE 208PUNTOS Tarapacá Education and Work Roundtable 2010 – 2020 MATEMÁTICAS 179PUNTOS 2008 2010 2012 The Tarapacá Quality of Education 2010-2020 Initiative, launched in 2010, arose from a public-private alliance with the Education Ministry’s Regional Office, formed in response 2012 to the need to take a strategic approach to education. LENGUAJE 259PUNTOS In 2012, it focused on providing technical support for the Education and Work Roundtable and the management teams of the associated institutions in order to create awareness of the Tarapacá Quality of Education 2010-2020 Strategy and facilitate its implementation. MATEMÁTICAS 265PUNTOS 96 97 page page 5. Commitment to our Collahuasi’s suppliers have a strategic role in the company since they allow it to: suppliers Serve close to Provide accommodation Clean an area of 5 million 40 million equivalent to meals a year 3,5 million m2 bed-days a year Material issues for suppliers Transport Provide 1.5 million Stakeholders Material issues Suppliers Need to generate relations of trust with the company Need to develop local suppliers 600,000 kms of external Need to improve channels of communication with the company people a year transport 4 million kms of internal transport 98 99 page page Contracts with local companies 1. Management Objectives Approach • To address challenges that have a high impact 24% 76% The strategic importance that its suppliers have for Collahuasi is reflected in the company’s creation of a for the business through innovative and exportable solutions developed by suppliers; Supplier Development area. One of its key objectives • Improve management of relations between Collahuasi and its existing suppliers of goods is to establish collaborative working relations that and services; generate shared value, thereby contributing to the • Facilitate suppliers’ compliance with the Contracts with Other contracts regional companies development of all the parties’ businesses. company’s requirements; • Strengthen interaction between Collahuasi In 2012, Collahuasi worked with 571 suppliers of whom 135 were local companies. The company’s Supplier Development Policy establishes and new suppliers of goods and services; the principles that regulate the development of • Improve coordination between the Supplier Development area and other areas of the suppliers of goods and services in order to generate company; Contracts with local companies Contracts with a duration of more than 3 years value. Through its operational policies and practices, • Monitor and increase awareness of the area’s CONTRACTS WITH REGIONAL COMPANIES 2010 2011 2012 the company seeks to enhance its suppliers’ achievements and progress. competitiveness and, therefore, also conditions for the OTHER CONTRACTS sustainable economic and social development of the community of which it forms part. Collahuasi’s commitment to improving the productivity of its value chain by means of a change of paradigm 436 in the way it understands and relates to the context 313 Mission in which it operates is reflected in the World-Class Supplier Development Programme being implemented under an agreement between Collahuasi, other mining Collahuasi’s Supplier Development area seeks to create conditions that: companies in the Region, the Chilean government’s 289 215 Economic Development Agency (CORFO), the Mining 188 Facilitate suppliers’ compliance with the Ministry, the Regional Government and the Iquique standards established by the company; Industrialists’ Association (AII). This agreement 155 145 establishes a commitment to work in collaboration with 167 Increase the sustainability, quality and suppliers to foster their organisational transformation productivity of suppliers of goods and services 135 into world-class companies and, at the same time, through collaborative work. develop the capabilities of local suppliers. (For further 82 43 information, see page 105 (2.1).) 45 30 38 27 2010 2011 2012 CONTRACTS > 3 YEARS CONTRACTS > 3 YEARS OTHER CONTRACTS The supplier development projects so far implemented LOCAL COMPANIES by Collahuasi have been co-funded by CORFO, In 2012, 45% of contracts with Collahuasi had been in operation for more than three years and 17% corresponded generating a public-private alliance in concrete to local companies. initiatives that contribute to the development of the country as a whole as well as the Tarapacá Region. * In referring to suppliers, the concepts of regional and local are used interchangeably and include the Tarapacá and Arica and Parinacota Regions. The latter is included since 100 at least one company from that Region participated in some projects and, because it does not have the Tarapacá Region’s level of mining activity, contracts can be considered 101 page a contribution to its development. page Between 2008 and 2012, 103 companies participated in Collahuasi’s Supplier Development Programmes 2. Guidelines for relations with suppliers [EC6] (PDPs). The bases for Collahuasi’s relations with its suppliers are established in the company’s Contractual Policy. This defines the role of contractors, the norms governing commercial relations and the criteria regulating the process for hiring services. Supplier Development Programmes (N° of companies) Purpose of the Contractual Policy To establish the principles regulating commercial relations with suppliers of 61 tangible and intangible goods, including those who provide services or carry out work The External Services department of the under a service contract or, in other words, company’s Human Resources area carries contractors, in order to make efficient use out a monthly review of contractors’ of the company’s own resources and those compliance with their labour obligations available in the market that are required for towards employees. It also verifies the its operations. existence of work contracts and ensures 26 that these comply with the legislation in force. 8 2010 2011 2012 Local procurement [EC6] In 2012, Collahuasi acquired goods and services for US$1,793,480,554 as shown in the breakdown below: Type of Expenditure (US$) 2010 2011 2012 Own stock 273,773,777 266,154,824 209,884,703 Direct charge 303,523,950 145,085,128 234,595,698 Contracts 1,071,085,869 1,054,140,020 1,110,066,882 Projects 29,091,689 265,983,455 238,933,271 Total 1,677,475,285 1,731,363,427 1,793,480,554 102 103 page page Local and national procurement safety and health statistics and to make these available companies in the Region: Compañía Minera Teck Quebrada Blanca S.A., Compañía Minera BHP Billiton Pampa Norte to the authorities or Collahuasi whenever so requested S.A., Química y Minera de Chile S.A. and Haldeman Mining Company S.A. The initiative aims to improve suppliers’ The Tarapacá Region (Region I) accounted for 20.94% management skills and increase their capacity for entrepreneurship and innovation and ability to export, enabling of Collahuasi’s total procurement of goods and services them to offer high-standard solutions in line with the demands of a sector undergoing a process of expansion. in 2012, up by two percentage points on the previous 2.1. Supplier development [4.16] year. Under this commitment, Collahuasi seeks to strengthen suppliers’ competitiveness through the development of The strategic importance that Collahuasi’s suppliers capabilities that permit identification of problems in its business and the implementation of solutions in collaboration 2011 2012 have for the development and sustainability of its with suppliers. Santiago Region 66.92% 72.09% business reflects the current context of the company’s Region I 18.26% 20.94% operations, characterised principally by the increase The agreement establishes an undertaking to support the development of world-class suppliers and of local Region II 11.54% 4.23% in both global and local output of copper and other capabilities. Region VI 1.64% 1.49% minerals. Region V 1.07% 0.30% World-Class Supplier Development (innovation and exports) Region XV 0.45% 0.09% Forecasts suggest that, over the next two to three Region III 0.06% 0.33% decades, output of minerals will exceed accumulated An initiative that seeks to resolve challenges at mining operations together with regional suppliers or suppliers that have Region VIII 0.03% 0.20% production throughout the history of mankind. Description offices in the region and that have the potential to become companies that contribute significant value to mining so that they Region IX 0.01% 0.00% are recognised as companies that are world-class or on the way to becoming so. This implies that, in order to satisfy demand in the Region VII 0.00% 0.00% coming decades, producers will have to increase their To address challenges that have a high impact for the business through innovative and exportable solutions developed by Region IV 0.00% 0.34% Objectives suppliers of goods and services. competitiveness. Each signatory mining company defines the number of suppliers participating and the specific methodology for the Pro[HR1] [HR2] Collahuasi does not carry out specific human Goal Given this scenario, the challenge of achieving gains gramme's implementation. The common goal is for Chile to have a base of 250 world-class suppliers by 2020. rights audits of its contractors and distributors and in productivity is driving the development of more human rights clauses are not included in its investment innovative goods and services and of enhanced contracts. However, it requires that suppliers always This initiative supports the development of technological capabilities and management skills that enable companies management capabilities that permit more efficient comply with the relevant laws and regulation, rather to achieve international standards. World-class suppliers are defined as companies that: project implementation. than merely at the start of a tender process, and this is expressly stated in their contracts. • Have business management systems that are orderly, measured and comprehensible to all the organisation’s Suppliers that generate solutions for local challenges personnel; will, therefore, have an opportunity to target The company is working so that, in future, human • Offer a high-quality service in order to supply goods and services in line with the needs of each client; international markets and become competitive at the rights clauses and basic requirements are included in • Work to high standards of quality, providing a service or product that is well designed from the start, anticipating global level. contracts. clients’ expectations. Supplier development agreement [EC8] In addition, as required under Chilean legislation and regulation, the company requires that contractors In 2012, Collahuasi signed an agreement for the support comply with their obligation to maintain complete of supplier development with four other mining 104 105 page page Development of local capabilities Personnel Services and Industrial Protection, Roads and Energy areas. The initiative seeks to increase the critical mass of suppliers in the Region that have the capacity to address more complex challenges and incorporate them into the World-Class Supplier Development Programme. As a result of these meetings, business opportunities Description This calls for joint action on the part of the signatory mining companies, geared to strengthening for the transport suppliers were identified and strategic areas and suppliers’ capacity for management, entrepreneurship and innovation, enhancing their performance and generating shared value for both the supplier and the mining company. they were asked to provide information about their To strengthen the production chains of the signatory mining companies with regional suppliers by company, its equipment and personnel in order to carry enhancing the latter’s’ capacity for management, entrepreneurship and innovation in generating highquality products and services. out a diagnosis of its situation. On the basis of this information, a work plan has been jointly drawn up so Objectives Specific Objectives • To increase the base of regional suppliers (companies with their headquarters in the region) with which that those companies interested in providing services the signatory mining companies have commercial relations. • To improve the quality of the goods and services provided by regional suppliers to the signatory mining to Collahuasi comply with its requirements and are companies, with increased compliance with deadlines and undertakings. prepared to offer services when an opportunity arises. 2.2. Supplier Development Programmes, 2012 [EC6] 2.3. Participation in Expominera del Pacífico Duration Cost N° of Collahuasi participated in the 4th Expominera del Programme Objective Collahuasi contribution companies (months) (pesos) Pacífico trade fair, which took place in August 2012. participating Más Proveedores To strengthen the capabilities of This trade fair brings together the different players in Tarapacá (More local suppliers in order to increase Tarapacá Suppliers) transactions and production linkages 10 months $150,697,000 $31,000,000 (in cash) 28 the Tarapacá Region’s mining sector and is the area’s Supplier Development with Collahuasi and other regional principal business platform for the industry. Programme (PDP) mining companies. To improve the management skills Goods Supplier and quality of the procurement $30,399,900 = In 2012, a total of 244 companies, universities, suppliers process between a group of regional Development suppliers and Collahuasi in order to 12 months $60,799,800 $24,869,900 (in cash) 15 and small and mid-sized enterprises participated in the Programme $5,530,000 (in man-hours) maintain and deepen commercial event, which included business matchmaking meetings relations. as well as seminars on human capital, the economic To improve the management skills Direct Contractors and quality of services provided to $30,399,900 = outlook and trade with Asia. Supplier Development Collahuasi by a group of regional 12 months $60,799,800 $24,869,900 (in cash) 15 Programme suppliers in order to maintain and $5,530,000 (in man-hours) deepen commercial relations. A team of professionals from Collahuasi’s Contracts Preparation stage: and Procurement areas participated actively in To identify challenges at Collahuasi, seek solutions from suppliers able to matchmaking meetings with suppliers interested in address these challenges and select the companies to participate in the To be doing business with the company. Preparation Stage next development stage. $33,000,000 = defined on of World-Class 10 months $73,000,000 $13,000,000 (in cash) + completion of Supplier Development Programme Development stage: To work $20,000,000 (in man-hours) preparation For further details, see www.expomineradelpacifico. in collaboration to develop the stage. technical solution required by com. Collahuasi and, in parallel, develop the supplier organisationally (WorldClass Path). In addition, the company has deepened its relations with local suppliers through meetings with regional transport companies, creating political and technical working groups. A multidisciplinary team from the company participates actively in these working groups and comprises personnel from its Community Relations, Corporate Affairs, Procurement (Imports, Transport, Logistics and Supplier Development), Mine Maintenance, Contracts, Safety, 106 107 page page 04 Protection of the environment 1. Material issues for protection of the environment 110 2. Milestones 2012 111 3. Management approach 112 4. Protection of biodiversity 113 5. Waste management 116 6. Effluent management 118 7. Environmental incidents 119 1. Material issues 2. Milestones for protection of the 0 environmental Protection of environment incidents biodiversity strategies for management of of Category 3 or environmental impacts Stakeholders Material issues higher reported in implemented by Perception of pollution in the coastal area 2012 Collahuasi Community Perception of decline in marine resources Monitoring of Integrated environmental waste conditions management plan in the Puerto Patache 110 coastal ecosystem 111 page page 3. Management 4. Protection of approach biodiversity The core goals of the strategies for protection of the environment [MM2] ] In May 2012, Collahuasi signed a collaboration agreement with Chile’s National Forest Service (CONAF) in deployed by Collahuasi are to minimise environmental impacts and order to generate basic information and organise joint activities for the conservation of biodiversity. The initiatives regularly monitor the physical-chemical and biological variables of the undertaken included organisation of the International Queñoa Seminar which will take place in 2013. company’s areas of influence. Under the agreement, a meeting was held in October 2012 to update the Queñoa Conservation Plan, highlighting [EN11] The company undertakes a range of research activities in order the company’s experience in generating information about this species. to protect biodiversity and the cultural and historical systems that exist in areas close to its operations and to minimise impacts whether Sector Results Work with authorities Management Plan these are the result of the company’s use of land and water and/or of Favourable measurement by the Working meetings which resulted Joint redefinition of follow-up and authority of recovery of vegetation in modification of the monitoring activities of A-E polygons. the transport of inputs and products. Jachucoposa cover. Implies focalising management. system. Recovery of the Wetland is Wetland recognised in Resolution N°143/112 issued by Tarapacá Commission for the The activities undertaken focus on: Environment. Establishment of vegetation and No joint actions. Maintenance of terraces to reduce Chiclla Wetland improvements in water supply speed of water flow and reMaintaining the company’s social licence to operate; underway. establishment of vegetation. Developing an internal culture of care for the environment; Improvements in plantation, and its Presentation of current status of Identification of new sectors for establishment and installation of new queñoa reforestation programme reforestation, follow-up plan and Strengthening the role of sustainability within the company; Irruputuncu technologies to optimise water use. in meeting to update Queñoa incorporation of new technologies Volcano Incorporating the concept of sustainability into future projects Conservation Plan, held jointly with for establishing the plantation. Tarapacá Region CONAF. from the very start. 4.1. Interaction with biodiversity [EN15] Collahuasi has in place systems for monitoring flora and fauna in the areas close to its operations and maintains a register of sightings. 112 113 page page Monitoring of the ecosystem in Punta Patache Under this programme, general environmental conditions, birds and marine mammals are monitored and a specific study of the marine otter is being carried out. Monitoring focuses on determining the condition of communities (intertidal, subtidal and water column) in the project’s area of influence which stretches from Cáñamo in the north to Punta Patache in the south. Principal species monitored in habitats within the operation’s area of influence To date, no changes have been detected that could affect or threaten the ecosystems’ Habitat Species species. Coposa Salt Flat Flamingos, vicuñas Michincha Salt Flat Vicuñas Chiclla Wetland Wetlands (1.8 hectares) In the case of impacts that the company has identified as irreversible (Ujina Carcanal and Irruputuncu Volcano Queñoas (84 hectares) Punta Patache Marine otters, sea lions Capella Wetland), it has undertaken compensation, implementing a queñoa reforestation project in the Irruputuncu Volcano sector and transplanting vegetation from the Capella [EN12] [EN14] The company has taken all the necessary measures to conserve biodiversity, identifying its most Ravine to the Chiclla Ravine sector. significant impacts and deploying strategies for their mitigation and/or compensation. COPOSA SALT FLAT Strategies/ Sector Impact Measures Description of strategy Progress deployed Loss of Seasonal Generation of information about the area Resolution N°143 issued on 21 JACHUCOPOSA WETLAND vegetation monitoring, to understand the ecosystem’s behaviour November 2012 by Tarapacá cover due to seasonal irrigation and strengthen the company’s mitigation Commission for the Environment, drop in water and replanting in and compensation programme. modifying follow-up of transects after Jachucoposa table. some polygons. Permanent monitoring to assess the the sector authority (Agricultural IRRUPUTUNCU Wetland measure’s effectiveness and, on this basis, Inspection Service, SAG) observed an VOLCANO carry out annual planning to respond to the increase in vegetation cover and a authorities’ requirements. reduction in the elements that form part of the land without vegetation (Clause N°3 Resolution N°143/12). Loss of Seasonal Strengthening of the company’s mitigation Seasonal monitoring of the salt flat, vegetation monitoring and and compensation programme. finding increased presence of bird life Michincha Salt cover due to application of and land vertebrates. Flat drop in water water. table. CAMP Loss of Compensation Strengthening of the company’s mitigation Generation of information about the queñoas due with forestation and compensation programme which has so queñoa wood (number, diameter, CAMP to installation in the Irruputuncu far achieved 41% completion, equivalent to coverage) in the Ujina Carcanal of Ujina sector Volcano sector. 8,523 plants. The programme is at the stage sector. In the case of the Irruputuncu waste rock of testing the establishment of the queñoas Volcano forestation, installation of Ujina Carcanal dump. by eliminating irrigation in some areas and 20 waterboxxes, devices that permit applying technologies for efficient water more efficient water use by the plant. use by the plant. Monitoring during the year with In 2012, a description of the natural queñoa positive results. TAILINGS wood was prepared for the Carcanal area. DAM Wetland Twice-yearly Strengthening of the company’s Construction in 2012 of infrastructure covered by monitoring in compensation programme. In 2012, priority to reduce the speed of water flow, Rosario mine Chiclla Ravine was given to improving water supply in the incorporation of vegetable material MICHINCHA Capella ROSARIO SALT FLAT waste rock compensation area area as well as to the elimination of dead and soil filling. PIT UJINA Wetland dumps. for transplanting vegetable material and its incorporation PIT wetland species. into the area’s subsoil in an area of 1.8 hectares. REPRESA CHICLLA WETLAND No impact in Monitoring of Monitoring of the coastal system’s Activation of working group for WETLAND this area. physical-chemical population and communities, comparing the protection of the marine coastal area UJINA and population results with physical-chemical information in the Patache sector. CARCANAL CHICLLA aspects of the area in order to identify changes that could RAVINE in order to identify affect or threaten the ecosystems’ species. the condition of Punta Patache the coastal system Monitoring programmes in the area: in the port area. Bird and marine mammal monitoring in COPOSA Puerto Patache’s area of influence SALT FLAT Study of the marine otter in Punta Patache’s area of influence PUNTA Monitoring of environmental conditions in PATACHE the coastal ecosystem in Patache. TAILINGS SLURRY PIPELINE DAM 114 115 page page Waste generated by Collahuasi’s copper and molybdenum production processes Treatment/disposal Type of waste Units 2010 2011 2012 method Solid industrial waste Tonnes 5,126 5,609 5,253 Landfill Solid domestic waste Tonnes 1,931 1,485 1,472 Landfill Solid organic waste Tonnes 571 1,246 1,284 Landfill Tonnes 2,851 3,305 3,925 Final disposal company with Solid hazardous waste government authorisation Given the situation faced by Collahuasi during the period covered by this Report, implementation of some projects was halted, reducing assembly work and the construction of offices and other buildings. The increase seen in generation of solid hazardous waste during 2012 was due principally to maintenance and oil changes in a large part of the company’s mining equipment (trucks, shovels and drills), with the resulting increase in generation of used oil. 5.2. Integrated waste management plan [EN26] [MM11] In the second half of 2011, Collahuasi implemented its Integrated Waste Management Plan, a longterm strategy that includes recycling programmes (bottles, paper, wood and scrap) and reuse of materials. Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts 5. Waste management Initiative Impacts avoided Reduction in consumption of materials. Elimination of risk of ground contamination since, if 2011 6.6 tonnes 2012 4.25 tonnes (*) Recycling of electronic waste disposed of in places not properly equipped for this purpose, contamination with hazardous substances could occur. Reuse of bottles to produce new bottles, reducing 140,970 units 182,480 units Collahuasi is committed to management of the waste generated by its operations and consumption of mining inputs Recycling of plastic bottles consumption of materials and space occupied in landfill. and has implemented a number of different strategies and plans to facilitate and encourage reuse, recycling and Elimination of risk of contamination of ground with hazardous 1 tonne 1.2 tonnes Disposal of medical waste substances and of infection from waste impregnated with responsible disposal of these materials. biological residues. Elimination of paper, plastic bags, wood etc. as cause of visual 31 tonnes 29.72 tonnes Ecological brigades and cleaning of contamination in the ecosystems where Collahuasi's worksites [EN1] For the extraction of copper and molybdenum, the company uses materials that are handled carefully and in internal and other roads are located. an environmentally safe way in compliance with the regulation in force. The principal materials used are sulphuric Reduction in emissions of greenhouse gases as result of iron 9,274 tonnes 3,238 tonnes (**) Recycling of scrap smelting to produce new steel. Reduction in water and energy acid, petrol, diesel, LPG, NaSH, flocculants, tyres and steel balls. (For further information about consumption of consumption for steel production. materials, see page 169.) Elimination of risk of contamination of ground and water with 1,551 tonnes 2,194 tonnes (***) Recycling of used oil waste containing hydrocarbons. Increase in load Increase in load 5.1. Solid and liquid waste transported from transported from Increase in hazardous waste Reduction in number of truck journeys and, therefore, CO2 7 tonnes/truck 8.5 tonnes/truck transported by truck to final emissions. in 2010 to 8.5 in 2011 to 9.7 handler [EN22] Given Collahuasi’s commitment to management of the waste generated both by its own operations and tonnes/truck in tonnes/truck in 2011 2012 by its contractors, the company has in place strict controls in all its production areas in order to comply with the (*) The reduction as compared to 2011 reflects elimination of waste generated during this period. environmental regulation in force and its own Environment Policy. (**) In 2011, the yard cleaning contract was in operation during 10 months but only 4 months in 2012 due to postponement of the tender for the integral waste management contract. (***) The increase reflects an increase in the mine equipment in operation and the corresponding maintenance. Resiter, a waste management and treatment company, is currently responsible for managing the waste generated at Collahuasi’s worksite operations, cleaning roads and administering yards. 116 117 page page 6. Effluent management 7. Environmental incidents [EN21] In its Environmental Impact Studies and Declarations, Collahuasi undertook not to discharge liquid waste [EN23] In 2012, 17 environmental incidents occurred of which nine corresponded to spillages on unprotected ground. into any surface, underground, land or marine water body or course. Of these, two were considered more significant due, in one case, to the area of unprotected ground affected and, in The total volume of waste water generated by Collahuasi is shown in the table below: the other, because the spillage occurred outside the company’s worksite. Total waste water generated by type In 2012, the ground was the resource most affected by environmental incidents, accounting for 82% of spillages during the year. Total volume (m3/year) 2010 2011 2012 Treated sewage 369,109 413,159 379,987 (*) 0 environmental incidents Waste water 872,322 754,051 934,422 Water used for irrigation 178,786 273,031 224,772 (*) Includes treatment by mobile plant. of Category 3, 4 or 5 The volume of treated sewage showed a drop of 9% on 2011, reflecting a reduction of approximately 18% in the reported in 2012. workforce. The increase in the volume of waste water was a result of lower output of copper concentrate in 2012 which implied a larger quantity of water in the slurry pipeline. Material Significant spillages Volume (m3) Location Impact spilled Breakage in pipeline for 60 Tailings Cordillera 600 m2 of ground contaminated The waste water generated by Collahuasi and the treatment method used are shown in the table below: transporting tailings worksite (Ujina) 30 Collective VS-3 dissipating Spillage outside worksite, 200 m2 of Breakage in slurry pipeline concentrate station (outside ground contaminated Total waste water generated by treatment method and destination worksite) Breakage in leaching irrigation 40 Leaching solution Leach pads (Ujina) 550 m2 of ground contaminated matrix Destination Treatment method Total volume spilled 130 Evaporation Activated sludges Treated sewage ponds Category 1: Negligible. An incident that has caused negligible, reversible environmental impact, requiring very minor or no remediation. Evaporation Dissolved air flotation Category 2: Minor. An incident that has caused minor, reversible environmental impact, requiring minor remediation. Waste water ponds Category 3: Moderate. An incident that has caused moderate, reversible environmental impact with short-term effects, requiring moderate remediation. Irrigation of Inverse osmosis + nanofiltration Category 4: Serious. An incident that has caused serious environmental impact with medium-term effects, requiring significant remediation. Water used for irrigation Patache forest Category 5: Disastrous. An incident that has caused disastrous environmental impact with long-term effects, requiring major remediation. plantation 118 119 page page 05 Our energy management: climate 1. Milestones 2012 2. Management approach: mitigation and adaptation to climate change 122 123 change and efficient use of natural 3. Organisational carbon footprint 124 4. Product carbon footprint 127 5. Carbon footprint reduction initiatives 128 resources 6. Energy efficiency and alternative renewable energies 129 7. Fuel consumption 130 8. Electricity consumption 131 1. Milestones 2. Management approach: mitigation and Consolidation adaptation to climate of Collahuasi’s change Energy consumption is one of the critical aspects of the mining industry and, for its production processes, Collahuasi Award of Implementation requires important energy resources that include 95-octane petrol, LPG, fuel oil 6 and, above all, oil and electricity. contract for of 1 ª solar photovoltaic plant measurement of its carbon Energy Management From the very beginning, the company has sought to develop its activities sustainably in accordance with its environmental management system and the ISO 14001 standard. In this context, it identifies the project for footprint System measurement of its carbon footprint, launched in 2010, as strategic both in terms of its results and their subsequent located in the Pozo both organisational use in determining mitigation measures. The company’s Energy Management System, based on the ISO 50001 Almonte municipal and product standard, which is currently being implemented, has an important role to play in this field along with the company’s district in Puerto Patache constant quest to incorporate alternative renewable energy sources into its operations. It is crucial to ensure supply and proper management of these resources which have a direct impact on the company’s production costs and its results. 122 123 page page 3. Organisational carbon footprint Collahuasi became the first mining company in Chile to measure its product and organisational carbon footprint with the process and results assured in accordance with international norms by a third party. [EC2] In line with its policy of operating in harmony with the environment and society, Collahuasi measures and openly discloses In order to define the organisation’s boundary, all the operation’s activities that generate GHG emissions were taken its carbon footprint, leading the industry in this best practice. In into account, including its entire value chain from mining exploration through to the arrival of copper concentrate the period covered by this Report, the company consolidated its or cathodes at their port of destination. work of previous years, measuring its 2012 carbon footprint for products in accordance with the PAS 2050 international norms and its organisational footprint in accordance with the GHG Protocol and ISO 14064 standard. Carbon Footprint Non-binding international agreements and protocols related to climate change to which Chile has adhered point to increasing pressure to enter into environmental undertakings and a company’s carbon footprint (CO2 emissions per unit of output) is a factor that is taken into account when it seeks to market its products. Collahuasi, therefore, maintains the same proactive and strategic approach to this issue which it adopted a few years Indirect CO2 Direct CO2 ago, measuring and monitoring its carbon footprint on a monthly emissions emissions [EN17] [EN17] basis and using this information in the mitigation measures it is analysing and implementing. [EC16] [EC17] A carbon footprint is the total set of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions caused directly and indirectly by an individual, organisation, event or product. It is an internationally recognised Scope 1 Scope 2 Scope 3 indicator through which an activity’s total impacts on the environment can be dimensioned and managed. INPUTS EMISSIONS FUEL OF ELECTRICITY The strategic inputs considered Consumption of fuel by in calculation of the company’s Emissions as a result of the consumption of electricity trucks, machinery and light carbon footprint are those that vehicles controlled by the have a significant impact on acquired from generators. organisation as well as fuel for Collahuasi’s production cycle; operation of the cogeneration the most important are crusher plant. Also includes and mill linings, mill balls, emissions resulting from the lime, sulphuric acid, tyres and activities of contractors who lubricants. provide services related to fragmentation and overland transport of mineral and products since Collahuasi determines the operating parameters of these services. For further information, see the Report on Greenhouse Gas Emissions at Cía. Minera Doña Inés de Collahuasi 2011 and Appendices of the company’s 2011 Sustainability Report. 124 125 page page 4. Product carbon Collahuasi’s total estimated CO2 emissions in 2012 are shown in the table below: Annual emissions by scope (tCO2e) Scope Scope 1 Scope 2 2010 354,468 1,047,653 2011 477,130 930,531 2012 472,461 902,927 footprint Scope 3 179,454 368,008 378,274 Total 1,581,575 1,775,669 1,753,662 Since 2011, Collahuasi has calculated a breakdown of its emissions by product (copper cathodes, copper concentrate and molybdenum) in accordance with and assurance under the British PAS 2050 standard. Emissions generated by transport of personnel (tCO2e) Carbon Footprint [EN29] Indirect emissions as a result of the movement of personnel including air travel and overland transport to and from the worksite: 2010 2011 2012 Emissions generated by 1,466 2,256 1,968 air travel Emissions generated by 2,124 2,998 3,397 Copper cathodes Copper concentrate Molybdenum overland transport (*) concentrate 0.3974 tCO2e/Cu cathode 1.6433 tCO2e/tonne Cu concentrate 1.6526 tCO2e/tonne Mo concentrate Total 3,590 5,254 5,366 208,927 tCO2e/year 1,536,196 tCO2e/year 8,487 tCO2e/year Source: 2009 Guidelines to Defra / DECC’s GHG Conversion Factors for Company Reporting. (*) Emissions within and outside the worksite (buses). 126 127 page page 5. Carbon 6. Energy efficiency and footprint alternative renewable reduction energies initiatives [EN6] Collahuasi’s implementation of an Energy Management System based on the ISO 50001 standard, together with its annual measurement, monitoring and assurance of its carbon footprint, clearly testify to the company’s commitment to the sustainable development of its operations. Through the incorporation of alternative renewable 5.1. Abatement curves [EN18] energy (ARE) sources and energy efficiency technologies, the company has sought to strengthen its management of energy use and consumption, with the resulting benefits in terms of GHG emissions. The different areas of Collahuasi are committed to reducing the impact of the company’s operations in In 2012, the company continued with its work over the two previous years in identifying potential opportunities for terms of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. In order to improvements, related principally to the energy efficiency of its processes. The initiatives identified include: support their work, it is necessary to identify, evaluate, compare and implement proposals for energy efficiency • Use of LED technologies for office lighting and mitigation. To this end, the company launched an • Reuse of SEE SAG 1011 heat in showers initiative in 2010 to develop GHG abatement curves on • Reuse of SEE SAG 1011 heat in bioleaching the basis of which to calculate the cost-effectiveness of • Capture of energy from the Tailings Hydraulic Drop different proposals for mitigation. • Use of magnetic induction for warehouse and outside lighting • Use of solar systems to heat water for showers In 2012, Collahuasi worked on the development of the • Promotion of awareness of lighting in electricity rooms GHG abatement curve for Puerto Patache, analysing • Improvement of configuration of electrical circuits. and comparing specific proposals for reducing the emissions generated by this area of its operations. This In the period covered by this Report, the company faced a number of challenges that affected compliance with its showed a potential to reduce emissions by over 3,119 production targets and objectives as regards energy efficiency. tCO2e. Collahuasi is committed to making particular efforts to stabilise production and regularise the work it has been undertaking for a number of years in areas that include the energy efficiency of its processes. 5.2. Recognitions received 6.1. Implementation of Energy Management System in Puerto Patache For the second consecutive year, Collahuasi received the Best Carbon Footprint Prize from the Chilean-British [EN18] In 2011 and 2012, Collahuasi worked to develop and implement an Energy Management System that is Chamber of Commerce. In addition, the Revista Capital transparent, can be audited, is based on Chilean and international standards (ISO 50001) and envisages different business magazine and the Fundación Chile technology energy sources and their possible uses at the company’s installations. transfer institute awarded it their Best Management of Climate Change Prize. An internal communications campaign was implemented in order to reinforce the system and increased responsibility was assigned to the company’s executives in controlling energy consumption. The system was implemented in the leaching area in 2011 with positive results and this was followed by its implementation in Puerto Patache in 2012. Improved control of energy consumption and identification of consumption reduction opportunities throughout the value chain. Reduction in energy costs. Benefits of the Energy Reduction in GHG emissions and other environmental impacts. Management System for Continuous improvement in energy intensity (energy use/output). Collahuasi Confirmation of Collahuasi's commitment to sustainable development in eyes of external stakeholders. Preparation for future ISO 50001 and/or ISO 14067 certification as well as for other legal requirements related to GHG emissions. 128 129 page page 6.2. Alternative Renewable Energies (AREs) [EN6] ARE incorporation Other projects Through a tender, a contract was awarded for the purchase of energy from Due to the successful implementation and a solar photovoltaic plant located in the Pozo Almonte municipal district. operation of the ESUSCON photovoltaic project, The results of its environmental and technical-economic evaluation were which supplies electricity for the community of so positive that it was decided to increase the original contract for 30,000 Huatacondo (Tarapacá Region), it is planned to MWh/year to 60,000 MWh/year, corresponding to an installed capacity implement projects using clean and renewable of 25 MWp. The business model is based on an energy purchase-sale energy sources in other communities. In the contract, with the engineering, construction and operation of the plant case of geothermal energy, the company has administered by Spain’s Solarpack. In addition, a 300 kW solar photovoltaic continued to make progress towards a future plant will be built at Puerto Patache for research purposes, using different tender. photovoltaic technologies. This plant may be opened to the public for technical visits. Higher diesel consumption is the result of an increase in the number of trucks and the distances they travel due to the growth and natural expansion of the pit. This obliges Collahuasi to implement measures related to energy efficiency and control so as to improve its global management of energy resources. 6.3. Energy efficiency of processes 7.1. Cogeneration plant [EN5] Collahuasi strives to increase the energy efficiency of its processes through sustained reductions in energy consumption per tonne input in the plant and leaching process. Its commitment in this field is reflected in the For the purpose of carbon footprint measurement, the fuel used by the cogeneration plant, located at the worksite, achievement of figures that are below the average for the past three years. is considered rather than the energy generated since the process involves transformation of the primary fuel. Unit energy consumption by area (2011-2012) Output of cogeneration plant Mine Sulphides Oxides 2010 2011 2012 (GJ/tonNE movEd) (GJ/tonNE input) (GJ/tonNE input) 179,168 190,056 23,1921 20,12% 20,12% 20,12% 1KWh = 3,600KJ In the case of the mine, the intrinsic nature of an open-pit operation, an increase in the distance over which material has to be transported and hardening of the rock (primary rock) result in an increase in unit energy consumption. 8. Electricity consumption 7. Fuel consumption [EN4] The electricity consumed by Collahuasi’s production processes and for the company’s administration is shown in the table below: [EN3] The table below shows the historic fuel consumption related to the company’s direct emissions: Fuel consumption Electricity consumption Fuel consumption (GJ) Oil 95-octane Petrol Fuel oil 6 LPG Electricity consumption 2010 2011 2012 2010 3,961,485 11,714 290,244 67,119 MWh 1,303,753 1,282,656 1,263,601 2011 4,698,300 9,539 441,948 76,089 GJ* 4,693,511 4,617,560 4,548,963 2012 5,306,597 6,428 48,118 (*) 63,589 * 1 MWh = 3.6 GJ (*) This reduction is a result of a drop in electricity production by the cogeneration plant from 52,793 MWh in 2011 to 6,442 MWh in 2012. (1) This plant is not in operation. In 2011, some tests were carried out and legal discussions with its suppliers continue. 130 131 page page 06 Our water management 1. Material issues 134 2. Management approach 135 3. Protection of water resources 136 4. Efficiency in water consumption 140 1. Material issues 2. Management approach In order to harmonise the long-term security of water supply with conservation of the related biodiversity, Collahuasi Stakeholders Material issues has designed an integrated strategy for the sustainable extraction of groundwater and has high standards of water Opinion leaders Perception of the lack of a environmental sustainability approach Community Perception of a decline in marine resources management in place in all its processes, rationalising withdrawals in accordance with the type of activity or task being undertaken at its worksite. In line with its vision and long-term commitment, the company’s expansion plans necessarily take account of future water needs and evaluate different alternatives ranging from the rational and sustainable use of groundwater to the use of seawater. In parallel, Collahuasi also pre-drains and drains the sides of pits in order to control their stability and minimise risks to people and equipment. 134 135 page page 3. Protection Clarifying myths Collahuasi does not extract water from the Huasco Salt Flat. of water The company does not have water rights in the Huasco Salt Flat nor has it built installations to extract water from this area. Over ten years ago, it merely established wells for the purpose of studying the basin as a basis for submitting applications for water rights. The conservation and protection of biodiversity in the Huasco Salt Flat is, resources and will always be, a priority for Collahuasi. A large amount of water does not go down Collahuasi’s 3.1. Coposa water management strategy: Extraction slurry pipeline to be lost at sea. organisation plan The slurry pipeline consists of two tubes, one of seven inches and the other of eight inches, for the transport of copper concentrate from the worksite to the port for its Since 2006, as part of its environmental policies, Collahuasi shipment. The water that accompanies the concentrate does not exceed 40 L/s and, in other words, represents less than 4% of the water used by the company. It is subsequently has implemented a plan for organising water withdrawals evaporated in ponds and a forest plantation in the Patache sector, avoiding its disposal into the sea. from the Coposa basin in such a way as to avoid affecting the Jachucoposa Spring and surrounding wetland. Collahuasi does not extract large quantities of “fresh Until 2007, withdrawals from the Coposa basin took place water” from the Andean Plateau which could be used for other purposes. exclusively in the Pabellón Fault sector, an area whose water system is very closely connected with the Jachucoposa Almost half the water Collahuasi extracts is practically “brine” with such a high content of salts that it is comparable to the salinity of seawater. This salt water, extracted sector, resulting in a greater impact than originally principally from Coposa Norte, could not be used for agriculture and certainly not as drinking water. anticipated. In response, Collahuasi has since gradually relocated withdrawals to sectors where they have a lesser impact on the wetland and only 3% of the company’s water rights are now located in the Pabellón Fault sector, with the remainder distributed across areas such as Coposa Norte 3.2. Jachucoposa Spring (45%), Coposa Sur (35%) and Portezuelo (16%) that also form part of the Coposa basin but have less influence on [EN9] The Jachucoposa Wetland in the Coposa Salt Flat Basin is one of the sectors that has been most affected the Jachucoposa sector. These changes in water withdrawal by Collahuasi’s water withdrawals since 1998. Since 2005, the company has implemented a strict programme of points have permitted a gradual recovery of the natural reduction of withdrawals from the Pabellón Fault sector in order to fulfil its undertakings with the authorities and water flow in the Jachucoposa Spring. reverse impacts, particularly on the Jachucoposa Spring, and this has been reflected in a recovery of the latter’s natural water flow. 136 137 page page Programme of reduction of withdrawals from the Natural water flow in Jachucoposa Spring Pabellón Fault Sector MEASURED BY COLLAHUASI MEASURED BY NATIONAL WATER BOARD (DGA) AÑO Real flow extracted FLOW (L/S) 2007 750 L/s 45 2009 150 L/s 2010 50 L/s 40 2011 33 L/s 2012 18 L/s 35 Thanks to these measures, the natural water flow of 30 the Jachucoposa Spring has shown a sustained increase from 12.6 L/s in December 2007 to 38.3 L/s in December 25 2012 and has, in other words, tripled in five years. 20 Water flow in Jachucoposa Spring 15 2007 2012 10 DEC 2006 DEC 2007 DEC 2008 DEC 2009 DEC 2010 DEC 2011 DEC 2012 12.6 L/s 38.3 L/s Since 2007, the natural water flow in the Jachucoposa Spring has shown a clear tendency to increase, reflecting the effectiveness of Collahuasi’s water management in the Coposa basin. This has been anchored in a programme of modification of the places where it extracts groundwater, giving priority to those sectors which have less impact on the Spring and its surrounding Wetland. Thanks to these water management measures and other measures to improve the soil of the Wetland and In 2010 and 2011, the water flow in the Spring showed an above-trend increase due to the unusual snowfalls that increase its humidity, the surrounding area has shown occurred during the winter of 2010 and abundant rainfall in the summer of 2011-12. a rapid recovery. This is a tangible demonstration of Collahuasi’s commitment to maintenance of the production capacity of the water matrix it uses for its production processes and to its sustainable development. 138 139 page page 4. Efficiency in water Water withdrawal by source (%) consumption [EN8] Collahuasi’s main sources of water are located in the basins of the Coposa and Michincha Salt Flats in the 19% 23% 58% Andean Plateau of the Tarapacá Region. In addition, it obtains water from the drainage of its mine pits. Coposa and Michincha are endorheic (closed) basins surrounded by mountains and volcanoes that reach heights of over 5,000 metres. Mine drainage MICHINCHA COPOSA In 2012, Collahuasi’s total water withdrawals were down by 3% on the previous year, due partly to the reduction in the company’s copper output. The company nonetheless remains committed to developing a balanced water supply matrix and to limiting impacts on the environment, particularly in the Jachucoposa sector. 4.1. Water recovery and reuse Total water withdrawal by source [EN10] Collahuasi’s consumption of raw and reused water from in 2010-2012 is shown below: Total withdrawal by source Tipo Unidades 2010 2011 2012 Consumption of raw and reused water Units 2010 2011 2012 Coposa basin Groundwater '000 m3 23,523 20,858 20,675 Total raw water consumption by Collahuasi '000 m3 33,743 33,457 32,892 Michincha basin(*) Groundwater '000 m3 8,864 8,917 8,185 Total raw water consumption by concentrator plant '000 m 3 29,235 27,272 27,573 Mine drainage Groundwater '000 m3 4,505 6,862 6,575 Water reused from tailings dam and thickeners '000 m3 110,677 111,988 101,353 Total año '000 m3 36,892 36,637 35,435 (**) Unit water consumption at concentrator plant (L/tonne) 595 571 622 (*) Includes water from infiltration wells which corresponds to water recovered from the tailings dam. (**) The drop as compared to the previous year was due to lower copper output in 2012. The operational problems that Collahuasi experienced in 2012, which meant an important drop in its output, were also reflected in a 2% reduction in water consumption at the concentrator plant. However, the production process’s low level efficiency meant an increase in unit water consumption which reached 622 litres per tonne of mineral treated, ahead of the expected target of 570 litres. Collahuasi, however, made a great effort to avoid higher consumption and achieved an effective recycling rate of 78% in the concentrator plant, maintaining its position as one of the most efficient companies in the industry. 140 141 page page Water reuse 4.2. Improvements in tailings management 4.2.1. Increase in the number of thickener units As part of the company’s efforts to increase water efficiency in the plant, a new tailings thickener unit was built in 2012, improving water recycling in the copper concentration process and increasing water recovery from tailings before their disposal in the dam. Startup of this new HRT-3001 thickener began at the end of 79% 78% 77% 2012 prior to its full operation as from the first quarter of 2013. As a result, Collahuasi will be operating two of the largest water recovery units in the mining industry globally. 2010 2011 2012 New HRT tailings thickener to improve recovery of water from the process New thickener Tailings thickener units until 2011 Image: Google Earth. 142 143 page page Appendices 1. Complementary information 146 2. GRI content index 165 3. External assurance statement 170 4. Evaluation and assurance of commitments report 176 5. Feedback survey 179 1. Complementary Direct and indirect economic impact in 2012 [EC9] The global economic value of Collahuasi’s business has been estimated on the basis of operational procurement, information payment of remunerations and tax payments as well as their multiplier effect or indirect impact. This indicator shows the relative weight of the company’s operations in the main macroeconomic variables of Additional information is available on Collahuasi’s website (www.collahuasi.cl). Chile and the Tarapacá Region. In addition, it permits an understanding of the scope of these impacts which is important for improving performance in all aspects of the company’s management. These indirect impacts include 1.1 Economic Performance [2.8] the additional effects generated by the circulation of money in the economy. Dimensions of Collahuasi Collahuasi’s direct and indirect economic impact in 2012 was equivalent to US$4,202 million, down by 33.59% on the previous year. This drop reflected an important reduction in tax payments due to the impact of lower copper prices Workforce on the company’s revenues and lower profits in contrast to their upward trend in the previous three years. Dimensions of the reporting organisation 2010 2011 2012 Out of the company’s total economic impact, 76.9% was related to operating and investment purchases (business Direct employees impact), 14.02% to remunerations (personal income) and 9.02% to taxes and royalties paid to the central and local Annual average 2,295 2,695 2,842 governments (government). Year-end 2,419 2,784 2,865 Contractors' employees The company’s direct economic impact reached US$1,437.4 million (down by 40.4% on the previous year) while its Annual average 5,813 7,820 6,656 indirect impact was US$2,536.3 million (down by 172.4%). Year-end 5,086 7,571 5,073 Total annual average 8,108 10,515 9,498 COLLAHUASI’S ECONOMIC IMPACT Total year-end 7,505 10,355 7,938 DIRECT IMPACT 2009 2010 2011 2012 (US$ million) Financial data Remunerations 116.84 152.08 209.51 228.3 2010 2011 2012 Direct business 967.03 1,072.04 1,298.52 1,303.9 Net sales or net income (US$ thousand) 3,928,862 3,837,146 2,277,290 Payments to government 272.06 455.37 903.89 133.5 Capitalisation (broken down by debt and net equity) 1,355.93 1,679.49 2,411.92 1,437.4 Fixed assets and intangibles (US$ thousand) 3,225,604 4,069,943 4,704,666 Liabilities to banks (US$ thousand) 91.59 0 149.187 Net equity (US$ thousand) 3,475,150 3,992,559 4,487,457 INDIRECT IMPACT 2009 2010 2011 2012 (US$ million) Remunerations 184,61 204,29 331,01 360,8 Value generated and distributed (US$ thousand) [EC1] Direct business 1.431,20 1.588,10 1.921,78 1929,7 Payments to government 500,59 837,88 1.663,18 245,7 2010 2011 2012 2.116,40 2.630,27 3.915,97 2536,3 Income Gross sales 3,928,862 3,837,146 2,277,290 Income from financial investments 1,196 1,222 546 TOTAL IMPACT 2009 2010 2011 2012 (US$ million) Income from sales of fixed assets and others 40,188 3,495 164 Remunerations 301.45 356.37 540.52 589.2 Economic Value Generated 3,970,246 3,834,873 2,278,000 Direct business 2,398.23 2,661.14 3,220.30 3.233,6 Expenditure Payments to government 772.65 1,293.25 2,567.07 379.2 Operating costs 1,073,047 1,298,523 1,303,878 3,472.33 4,310.76 6,327.89 4,202 Employee wages and benefits 152,084 209,518 228,387 Payments to providers of capital 1,604,033 1,167,267 882 Source: Calculated by Excelencia & Gestión using the input-output matrix of the Central Bank of Chile. Payments to government* 455,369 903,892 133,520 Investment in community 13,363 14,825 15,220 Economic Value Distributed 3,297,896 2,691,037 1,681,887 Economic Value Retained 672,350 1,143,836 596,113 146 147 page * Does not include deferred taxes. page The multipliers estimated for Collahuasi’s direct effects in Chile show that each US$1 spent directly generates an Workforce by category and gender [LA1] additional US$1.62. Women Men TOTAL Similarly, the multiplier for direct expenditure related to personal income (remunerations) is 1.58 and, for direct 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 2012 business (business income) and payments to the government, 1.48 and 1.84, respectively. PRESIDENT & VICE-PRESIDENTS 0 1 1 7 6 10 11 MANAGERS & SUPERINTENDENTS 3 3 7 81 86 107 114 PROFESSIONALS 58 79 85 472 595 600 685 According to the results for Collahuasi’s direct and indirect impact, it accounted for an OPERATORS, ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF & SIMILAR 8 6 5 1,790 1,862 2,001 2,006 TOTAL 69 89 98 2,350 2,549 2,718 2,816* estimated 1.5% of Chile’s GDP in 2012, down from 2.5% in 2011. * Excludes 49 apprentices. Workforce by type of contract and gender [LA1] Collahuasi’s impacts and share of the mining industry Women Men Total Apprentice 49 49 Share of Chilean output (‘000 FMT) Indefinite 96 2,617 2,713 2010 2011 2012 Fixed-term 1 83 84 Collahuasi 504,043 453,284 282,096 Secondee 1 18 19 Chile 5,418,900 5,262,800 5,433,900 Total 98 2,767 2,865 Fuente: Cochilco 2012 Indefinite-contract employees by category and gender [LA1] Given the drop in Collahuasi’s output in 2012, it accounted for 5.1% of Chile’s copper output, down from 8.6% in 2011 and 9.3% in 2010. Categoría Femenino Masculino Grand Total Executive 8 104 112 Share of Chilean exports (US$ million) Operators, Share Share Share administrative staff 5 1,920 1,925 2010 2010 2011 2011 2012 2012 & similar (OAS) Collahuasi 2,299 1,574 442.2 Supervisors, professionals & 80 575 655 Total Chilean exports 70,897 3.24 81,411 1.93 78,813 0.56 similar (SPS) Chilean mining exports 44,360 5.18 48,865 3.22 46,986 0.94 Trainee 3 18 21 Chilean copper exports 41,170 5.58 44,438 3.54 42,722 1.03 Secondee 1 18 19 Source: Central Bank of Chile and Collahuasi Exports ProChile 2012 Total 97 2,635 2,732 Collahuasi’s lower share of Chile’s total exports and its mining and copper exports in 2012 was principally due to its Total workforce by region, gender and type of contract [LA1] lower output and sales. Region Total 1.2 Labour performance 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 12 13 14 15 Apprentice Employees Men 35 7 7 49 Indefinite Women 60 3 1 1 1 29 1 96 Workforce by type of contract [LA1] Men 1232 353 103 269 110 21 15 32 1 4 4 171 2 300 2617 Fixed-term Workforce by Operators / maintenance Women 1 1 Executives Supervisors TOTAL type of contract personnel Men 39 16 5 11 3 1 2 6 83 2012 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 Secondee APPRENTICE 0 0 0 0 0 0 84 146 49 49 Women 1 1 INDEFINITE 91 96 125 520 520 682 1,777 1,811 1,925 2,732 Men 3 3 1 11 18 FIXED-TERM 0 0 0 10 10 3 21 57 81 84 Grand Total 1367 382 109 280 117 22 15 32 2 5 4 214 2 314 2865 TOTAL* 82 96 125 530 530 685 1,882 2,014 2,055 2,865 148 149 page page Number of employees leaving the company by age and gender [LA2] Percentage of employees leaving the company by gender and region [LA2] Employees leaving the company by age and gender Region Women Men Total AÑO Mayor SEXO 18-19 20-29 30-49 40-49 50-59 Total 1 5.17% 94.82% 116 que 60 Men 0 1 4 0 1 0 6 2 100% 46 2010 Women 0 10 39 21 10 1 81 3 100% 10 Men 7 173 182 135 47 12 556 2011 Women 1 11 7 4 0 0 23 4 100% 24 Men 0 28 104 96 29 6 263 2012 5 7.69% 92.30% 13 Women 0 1 5 1 0 0 7 Total by age 2012 0 30 109 97 29 6 6 100% 2 7 100% 1 12-month rolling turnover rate * [LA2] 8 100% 4 13 2.63% 97.36% 38 12-month rolling turnover rate 15 100% 17 2010 2011 2012 Total SPS Total 2.95% 97.04% 271 (Supervisors, 11.3% 15.9% 19.0% professionals & Turnover: Number of employees similar) Employees by category, gender and age range [LA13] leaving the company/total Total OAS (Operators, employees. 1.2% 10.0% 5.9% administrative staff TRABAJADORES POR NIVEL JERÁRQUICO Y RANGO ETARIO & similar) Total compañía 3.8% 11.5% 9.5% SEXO 20-29 30-39 40-49 50-59 Mayor que 60 Total * Apprentices and trainees not considered in calculating turnover. President & viceMen 1 3 5 1 10 presidents Women 1 1 Percentage of employees leaving the company by age and gender [LA2] Managers & Men 31 46 25 5 107 superintendents Women 2 4 1 7 Employees leaving the company by age and gender (%) Men 76 232 203 77 12 600 Professionals AÑO Mayor Women 18 41 15 9 2 85 SEXO 18-19 20-29 30-49 40-49 50-59 que 60 Operators, Men 282 781 718 208 12 2,001 Men 0 16 66 0 16 0 administrative staff & 2010 Women 1 2 1 1 5 Women 0 12 48 25 12 1 similar Men 1.25 31.11 32.73 24.28 8.45 2.15 Men 358 1,045 970 315 30 2,718 2011 TOTAL Women 4.34 47.82 30.43 17.39 0 0 Women 19 45 21 11 2 98 Men 0 10.64 39.54 36.50 11.02 2.28 2012 Total by age 2012 377 1,090 991 326 32 2,816 Women 0 25 62.5 12.5 0 0 * Total excludes 49 apprentices. Number of employees leaving the company by gender and region [LA2] Union Membership [LA4] Region Women Men Total 1 6 110 116 N° union members % union members 2 46 46 2010 1,239 64% 3 10 10 2011 1,416 54% 4 24 24 2012 1,361 68% 5 1 12 13 6 2 2 7 1 1 8 4 4 13 1 37 38 15 17 17 Total 8 263 271 150 151 page page Training for employability [LA11] 1.2 Social performance Internal training programmes Financing for external training or education Projects implemented in 2012 Career Development Programme based on skills for operators and PICA Scholarship for supervisors maintenance personnel AMOUNT Training courses Benefit for financing postgraduate studies PROJECT ORIGIN OBJECTIVE SCOPE EXPECTED RESULTS INVESTED (US$) Training at Work Post Programme Benefit for course of free choice Football school Community To offer children, 55 participants, Reduction in levels of vulnerability 6,000 Diploma in Management Skills for the Mining Business (31 supervisors working adolescents and young including children, of children and young people in Pica Seminars and congresses and executives) group people a sports training adolescents and young and its surrounding area through the and values alternative people. discipline of sports. Programme of Training in Basic Supervision Tools Cimientos to keep them away (Foundations) Programme (for all executives and supervisors of Mine Language courses from drug and alcohol V-P, Concentrator V-P and Operational Services V-P consumption circles. Individual development plan for supervisors Coaching programme for executives and supervisors Entrepreneurship Community To set up and Support for productive Sustainable insertion of local 45,000 Trainee programme for professionals fund working implement an enterprises that add entrepreneurs in market opportunities, group entrepreneurship value to the local offering locally produced services and/ Training in basic skills fund for the Pica economy. or goods. Brigade members municipal district to support projects with Critical equipment courses a significant impact on the town. Co-financing of Community To improve the capacity 3,000 Pica-Matilla Significant improvement in the Fire 120,000 forest fire truck working of the Pica Fire Brigade inhabitants (direct Brigade’s capacity to respond to Health and safety group to combat fires on beneficiaries). emergencies effectively and efficiently, agricultural properties, reducing the risk of fatalities in the to provide rescue 7,000 inhabitants of community. 1. Training courses services in case of road nearby communities accidents and other (indirect beneficiaries). The training programme managed by the company’s Health and Safety area addressed the following topics and purposes. targeted both Collahuasi’s own employees and those of its contractors: Emergency in Agricultural To clear and clean Clearing of 11 wells Recovery of the Valley’s production 630,372 Quisma Valley community farm land and wells with heavy machinery capacity. Normalisation of activities of 1. Standard for prevention of fatalities (EPF) and Camiña working destroyed by the and 7 smaller wells with Valley’s inhabitants. group landslide. well-digging equipment. 2. Training and self-care for exposure to breathable particulate matter/free crystalline silica In Camiña, support for 3. Training in protocol for workplace exposure to noise clearing activities or operation of work gangs 4. Training in risks of exposure to UV radiation sent to the area. 5. Courses on first aid, use of extinguishers, risk prevention for joint management-worker committees, industrial Reconstruction of Farmers' To eliminate water 5,491 linear metres of Recovery of average of 50% of 1,800,000 hygiene and manual handling of loads irrigation canals working losses as result of leaks canals. irrigation water and increase in 6. Courses on fire fighting, rescue of injured persons and vehicle rescue group caused by poor state of production and calibre of fruit and in Pica irrigation canals. frequency of irrigation. 7. Course on radiological protection 8. Course on scaffolding assembly and work at heights 9. Basic courses on PASS system, Visible Leadership, Work Permits and Job Safety Analysis (JSA) Huatacondo 10. Course on accident information and investigation. AMOUNT PROJECT ORIGIN OBJECTIVE SCOPE EXPECTED RESULTS INVESTED (US$) ESUSCON Community To maintain and manage Huatacondo community. Ongoing operation of the system which 72,000 working Cóndor sustainable supplies electricity for Huatacondo. group energy system (ESUSCON). Preventive Community To generate actions Approximately 50 Reduction in sensation of uncertainty 1,400 support unit working through the acquisition inhabitants. and neglect in event of roads being and emergency group of inputs that help to impassable. Improvement in capacity provisions reduce uncertainty for for internal organisation in face of the community in the natural phenomena. event of being cut off. 152 153 page page Caramucho Investment by strategic product AMOUNT PROJECT ORIGIN OBJECTIVE SCOPE EXPECTED RESULTS INVESTED (US$) Proyects 2012 Community Community To implement social Approximately 120 Contribution to strengthening 4,000 Amount invested strengthening working and community identity persons. community integration and identity. (US$) programme group activities. Arts, culture and heritage 335,302 Theatre (Dance and Theatre Festival) 29,011 Maintenance of Corbeta Esmeralda Museum 306,291 Chanavayita Education 7,195,304 AMOUNT PROJECT ORIGIN OBJECTIVE SCOPE EXPECTED RESULTS INVESTED Educational Foundation 6,523,344 (US$) Mining Innovation Centre 149,661 Expansion of Community To improve the centre's Approximately 150 Fostering of participation of individuals 120,000 University scholarships 83,326 neighbourhood working installations for persons. and community organisations as result Improvements to Tarapacá Campaign Historical Route 438,974 centre group community activities of centre's Improvement. organised by different Entrepreneurship and job creation 235,797 groups. Implementation of Pica fruit packing plant 23,472 Financing of Community To improve response 600 inhabitants (direct Improvement in local organisation 1,400 Supplier development 212,324 repair of fire working capacity of Chanavayita beneficiaries). as contribution to progress in local truck group Fire Brigade for fires in development indicators. Health 462,916 the fishing village and Up to 1,200 people in Implementation of health project 462,916 along the rest of the summer. coast. Environment 3,052,169 Huasco workshops 64,335 Football school Community To support existing Approximately 50 Gradual reduction in violation of 6,000 working sports activities persons (children, rights and community appreciation Alto Hospicio Environmental Improvement Programme 136,680 group that seek to reduce adolescents and young of Collahuasi for specific support for Pica Wetlands Research Centre 189,278 consumption of drugs people). situations of this type. and alcohol among Drilling of wells in Matilla 72,755 adolescents and young Improvements to Pica-Matilla measuring stations and canals 1,832,328 people. Combat of white fly 557,379 Programme Fishermen's To improve capacity to 40 Union members and Improvement in Union’s internal 16,000 to strengthen Union negotiate terms of sale their families. organisation and increased income Recycling-Tricycle Programme 199,414 Fishermen's working of products. as result of higher sales, increase Community social development 2,010,466 Union group in members’ confidence in Union’s organisation, higher income and better Techos para Tarapacá 1,307,084 quality of life. Collaboration agreement with Civil Registry 10,188 Study of fishing Fishermen's To strengthen fishing 40 Union members and Improvement in sustainable 15,000 Multi-purpose sports pitches for Iquique neighbourhood associations 301,608 areas Union activity as Union's their families. management of fishing areas, increase Chanavayita Fishermen's Union Canteen 136,702 working principal economic role. in members’ confidence in Union’s group organisation, higher income and better Studies of Chanavayita fishing areas 15,704 quality of life. Total projects 2012 13,291,954 Improvement Fishermen's To diversify strategies 40 Union members and Increase in purchasing power of Union 136,000 Sponsorships by Corporate Affairs and Communities 843,715 of fishermen's Union for generating income their families. members and their families, reducing canteen working in STI 1 in Chanavayita. their economic vulnerability. Pica and Iquique Art Galleries 147,314 group Community Programmes (*) 546,292 Contributions for emergencies 630,372 15,220,467 Cáñamo AMOUNT (*) Corresponds to the budget for community initiatives by small territorial, productive or community organisations. PROJECT ORIGIN OBJECTIVE SCOPE EXPECTED RESULTS INVESTED (US$) Programme Community 16,000 to strengthen working Fishermen's group Union Acquisition of Community To create and train 25 persons. Improvement in community's 2,600 pump for use in working group of volunteers internal organisation and increase fires group for initial response to in self-confidence, improvement fires and other similar in local perceptions of Collahuasi's events. commitment to community's real problems. 154 155 page page Relations with government services and NGOs (below) Measurement carried out since 2010 by the Measurement Centre of the Catholic University of Chile (MIDE UC) to Alto Hospicio and Iquique Environmental Improvement Programme to develop environmental awareness assess the progress of the Educational Improvement Programmes. These evaluations also seek to assess pupils’ Independent evaluation: SEPA through activities related to use of and care for water and, for example, tree planting. attainment and the progress and value added in each of the classes in the 17 primary schools in the Tarapacá test The initiative seeks to: Region that receive support from the Collahuasi Educational Foundation. The results obtained are predictive of • reach a social and environmental diagnosis through participative surveys in establishments, institutions and schools’ scores in the national SIMCE test and permit educational management by teachers. neighbourhood associations; • develop a plan for production of plants to satisfy the project’s needs; Engaging Families Programme Implemented since 2010 in 7 primary schools in the Iquique and Alto Hospicio municipal districts, this • foster and support the participation of the municipal district’s educational establishments; Programme seeks to increase parents’ involvement in their children’s learning processes by improving National Forest Service • incorporate and evaluate the largest possible number of social organisations and vulnerable members of the FEC receives a letter from institutional conditions and teachers’ skills as a way of contributing to pupil attainment. (CONAF) population in participative work to improve the district environmentally. UNICEF’s representative in Chile stating that its alliance With advice from UNICEF, the Collahuasi Educational Foundation launched the book, Working Together: Pintados Geoglyphs Development and Management Plan to build facilities and enhance the appearance and with Collahuasi has been a Experiences of Family Engagement for Educational Effectiveness in the Tarapacá Region, analysing the lessons museology of the Pintados archaeological site. successful experience from learned and best practices and presenting conclusions that can be of use to other schools and the school The initiative seeks to transform Pintados into a site of heritage and tourist interest and develop environmental which to learn. system’s administrators in achieving progress in consolidation of an alliance with pupils’ families. education activities, ensuring its protection as part of the Pampa del Tamarugal National Reserve. The project is co-financed with the Tarapacá Regional Government. In addition, Collahuasi financed the initial Programa que tiene por objetivo apoyar el desarrollo afectivo-social en la sala de clases, tanto a través de la studies for the project’s design. formación de los docentes, como en la aplicación del Programa Psicoeducativo con los estudiantes de la escuela. Entre Niños Programme Co-financing of the repair, construction and rehabilitation of Pica irrigation canals. Este programa se aplica en el Liceo de Huara, Escuela Básica de Pisagua, Escuela Vertiente del Saber, Escuela National Irrigation This is the largest-scale project developed in northern Chile in recent years and has allowed farmers to Nueva Extremadura de Matilla y Escuela San Andrés. Commission (CNR) recover an average 50% of the available water which was being lost through leaks in the canals. This has had a positive impact on irrigation frequency, productivity and fruit calibre. This project seeks to promote the development of critical and thoughtful reading, equipping children to read texts of all types as well as developing an interest in reading in the community related to the school. This NGO provides technical support to Collahuasi supervisors who lead community working groups Del Tamarugal School Corporación Norte Grande in different places in the company’s area of influence. In addition, it supports communities in drawing Libraries Implementation The project consists in equipment of the area to be used, the selection and acquisition of books and the up, evaluating, implementing and monitoring projects. Project implementation of a computing system for their management in all the schools in the Del Tamarugal Province with which the Collahuasi Educational Foundation works. In 2012, the project was also presented to the Institute for Agricultural This project involves the construction of wells and canals in Matilla to provide water in areas that are educational community and library managers received training. Development (INDAP) not currently productive. Launched in 2010, this Programme provides schools with advice on the creation of their websites. Collahuasi collaborated with these organisations and the community in the Quisma Valley in Regional Government, Pica responding to the agricultural emergency caused by a landslide in Quisma where a high proportion of School Website Programme In 2012, its activities focused on advising schools as to the importance of maintenance of their websites so that Municipal Government, the population is indigenous and crops typical of the area are grown. they are informative, updated and communicate the school’s activities to the educational community. SEMINAGRI, INDAP, CNR and In addition, the company helped to mitigate the landslide’s effects in the Camiña area with the CONADI coordination of the Collahuasi Corporate Volunteer Force, which fosters employees’ participation in social initiatives. Launched in 2007 by the educational area of Fundación Chile and the National Certification Council and, since 2010, with the Collahuasi Educational Foundation as a member, the National Gabriela Mistral Prize seeks to Gabriela Mistral Prize for promote school management and foster a culture of quality in schools in the Tarapacá Region. Certification of Schools and School Management Education In the framework of the prize, two seminars were organised: an international seminar in January and a national seminar in August, both with top-level speakers and attended by over 300 teachers. 1.1. Primary Schooling Improvement Programme Schools supported by the Primary Schooling Improvement Programme: Programme implemented since 2009 in 17 primary schools in the Tarapacá Region to improve pupil attainment through integral advice on school management and learning processes that foster the development of SCHOOL CITY/TOWN MUNICIPAL DISTRICT Primary Schooling capabilities as a basis for organisational change in the schools participating in the two programmes: 1 Escuela Caleta Chanavayita Chanavayita Iquique Improvement Programmes • Boosting Schools Programme implemented by Aptus Chile in 7 primary schools in the Iquique Province; 2 Escuela Caleta San Marcos San Marcos Iquique • Boosting Schools • Best School Programme implemented by Fundación Chile in 10 primary schools in the Del Tamarugal Province. 3 Escuela Patricio Lynch Iquique Iquique 4 Escuela Gabriela Mistral Iquique Iquique • Best School The programmes implemented by Aptus Chile and Fundación Chile completed their first 4-year phase and, as from 2013, will focus on embedding improvements in order to achieve the schools’ permanent transformation 5 Escuela Placido Villarroel Iquique Iquique and significant progress in their academic results. 6 Escuela de Lenguaje Oasis del Saber Alto Hospicio Alto Hospicio 7 Escuela Simón Bolívar Alto Hospicio Alto Hospicio Diagnosis of schools In 2012, the schools advised by Aptus and Fundación Chile were in the final phase of the improvement plans 8 Escuela Nueva Extremadura Matilla Pica participating in Primary implemented since 2009. In order to obtain information about the schools and the results achieved, diagnostic Schooling Improvement studies were carried out by a team external to the Programme in order to define the areas and focus of work for 9 Escuela San Andrés Pica Pica Programme a new period support. 10 Escuela Vertiente del Saber Pica Pica 11 Escuela de Camiña Camiña Camiña Study: “Results and Based of the results of these studies, an aggregate study was then carried out which showed that a process of projections of the Collahuasi educational change had begun and that its first fruits, as well as complexities and obstacles, were becoming 12 Liceo de Colchane Colchane Colchane Educational Foundation’s apparent. In this context, the study confirmed the need to maintain and deepen the intervention strategies with 13 Liceo Huara Huara Huara strategies of support for a focus on educational improvement. 14 Escuela Básica de Pisagua Pisagua Huara educational improvement” 15 Escuela Básica de Pozo Almonte Pozo Almonte Pozo Almonte In 2012, implementation of the Best Primary School and Best Secondary School Programmes continued in Juan 16 Escuela Básica Estrella del Sur Pozo Almonte Pozo Almonte Best School Programme in Fernández and Navidad, respectively, which were rebuilt by Collahuasi after their destruction by the earthquake Navidad and Juan Fernández 17 Escuela Básica La Tirana La Tirana Pozo Almonte and tsunami of February 2010. 156 157 page page 1.2. Secondary Technical-Professional Education Improvement Collahuasi Educational Foundation congresses and seminars In 2012, the advisory phase of this Programme began in six technical-professional schools in the Tarapacá In order to contribute to analysis and debate about the quality of education in the Tarapacá Region, the Collahuasi Region. Secondary TechnicalEducational Foundation organised the following events: Professional Education This Programme seeks to optimise pupils’ attainment and generate an educational option and institutional Improvement Programme management that are in line with the needs of the labour market by providing integral technical assistance and implementing related programmes. In particular, it has focused its efforts on the implementation of two EVENT ORGANISER(S) PARTICIPANTS programmes: Best Technical Secondary School and Technical-Professional Talent. International Seminar: Talking about Municipal Using a skills for employability model, the Preparado Minero (Prepared Miner) Programme provides tools to 265 teachers, school directors and university Education, What State Education Do We Want Collahuasi Educational Foundation in facilitate insertion into the labour market through the development of labour and entrepreneurship skills. At lecturers for Chile? conjunction with Fundación Chile as part of the present, it is being implemented in 7 schools that are participating in the Collahuasi Educational Foundation’s Collahuasi Preparado Minero National Gabriela Mistral Prize for a Culture of Educational Improvement Programme. National Seminar: Professional Teaching Programme Educational Quality Career, A Pending Task for Education of 300 members of the school community Through this Programme, 56 teachers and school directors and 1,720 pupils in 3rd and 4th year secondary school Quality in Chile have received training. Regional Congress: School Effectiveness for 300 teachers, school directors and university As in the case of primary schools, the SEPA test of the Measurement Centre of the Catholic University of Chile Collahuasi Educational Foundation Education of Quality in the Tarapacá Region lecturers from the Region on each day. (MIDE UC) was used in 2012 to evaluate the 7 technical-professional schools participating in the Technical-Professional Education Improvement Programme. Independent evaluation These evaluations, carried out in 2011 and 2012, also seek to assess pupils’ attainment and the progress and Educational establishments supported by the Technical-Professional Education Improvement Programmes: value added in each of the classes. As part of its Educational Improvement Programme, the Collahuasi Educational Foundation implements the Relating to Collahuasi Programme to strengthen ties between the education sector and industry. In particular, COLLABORATOR PROGRAMME SCHOOL MUNICIPAL DISTRICT a series of activities developed under the Programme seek to familiarise pupils in their last year at 7 technicalRelating to Collahuasi Instituto del Mar Almirante Carlos Condell Iquique professional secondary schools in the Tarapacá Region with Collahuasi professionals and the company’s Fundación Chile Best Secondary School Programme processes. Liceo Padre Alberto Hurtado Cruchaga Pica Key activities include standard and technical worksite visits, talks and the provision of equipment. Colegio Inglés Iquique Con el fin de apoyar los focos de intervención de las asistencias técnicas de los establecimientos educacionales Technical-Professional Colegio Metodista William Taylor Alto Hospicio que participan del programa de mejoramiento educativo TP, Fundación Educacional Collahuasi, apoyó con un Conexium Talent Liceo Luis Cruz Martínez Iquique Implementation of language, fondo de recursos para el año 2012, la adquisición de equipamiento tecnológico y didáctico. mathematics and science Colegio Metodista Robert Johnson Alto Hospicio laboratories Con esto se busca mejorar y en algunos casos crear los laboratorios de lenguaje, matemáticas y ciencias que permitan elevar el aprendizaje de los alumnos en estas áreas, a través de recursos que faciliten la Bicentennial Secondary SNA Educa Liceo Bicentenario Minero S.S. Juan Pablo II Alto Hospicio implementación curricular y el desarrollo de habilidades de los estudiantes. School Implemented in the Obispo Labbé School since mid-2008, this Programme provides pupils specialising in CISCO Networking Fundación Red de Academias Digitales Colegio Obispo Labbé Iquique electronics and electricity with training in information technologies, using latest-generation technological media Academy and teaching methods to create a solid mass of mid-level professionals prepared for insertion in the labour CISCO IT Essentials, Computer market or to go on to higher education. Hardware and Software Course To date, 109 pupils have taken this course, acquiring the necessary skills in information and communications 1.3. Environmental performance technologies (ICTs) and 19 have obtained CompTIA A + certification from the Computer Technology Industry Association. CONSUMPTION OF MATERIALS 1.3 Tarapacá Quality of Education 2010-2020 [EN1] The materials used by Collahuasi in 2012 were as follows: The Tarapacá Quality of Education 2010-2020 Initiative, launched in 2010, arose from a public-private alliance with the Education Ministry’s Regional Office, formed in response to the need to take a strategic approach to Materials used education. Materials Materials Units 2010 2011 2012 Units 2010 2011 2012 Its aim is to make a systematic and significant contribution to improving the quality of education in the used used Tarapacá Region by implementing a strategic development proposal that addresses the principal problems and Sulphuric acid (tonnes) 179,477 121,424 132,675 Flocculants (tonnes) 751 739 694 challenges. Petrol (m ) 3 326 276 200 Tyres (n°) 622 635 665 In 2012, it focused on providing technical support for the Education and Work Roundtable and the management Diesel (m3) 101,969 113,258 142,321 Steel balls (tonnes) 46,470 39,868 36,184 teams of the associated institutions in order to create awareness of the Tarapacá Quality of Education 20102020 Strategy and facilitate its implementation. LPG (m3) 2,628 2,979 2,490 Mining oil (m3) 3,253 3,408 3,407 The Initiative’s plan of work is built around four pillars: institutional management, opportunities for analysis NaSH (tonnes) 2,906 1,626 1,977 and debate, corporate image and the publicising of the activities undertaken, and the Education and Work Roundtable. Opportunities for Analysis and Debate: The events organised seek to provide the members of the Roundtable Consumption of sulphuric acid increased slightly in 2012 due to higher intensity of use per tonne of mineral treated Tarapacá Education and Work with opportunities to analyse and debate issues related to improving the quality of education: 2010-2020 Roundtable − “Lessons of the experience of SIP and Aptus for a strategic vision for improving the quality of education in the in the leaching process. During the year, 8,081,435 tonnes of material were loaded on the pads, with an acid Tarapacá Region”, speaker Patricia Matte, September 2012. consumption of 15.79 kg/tonne of mineral input as compared to 15.02 kg/tonne in 2011. − “School syllabus and graduation standards in teacher training and performance”, speaker Carmen Sotomayor Echeñique, October 2012. − “Nursery school standards”, speaker Marcela Pardo, November 2012. − Presentation of educational experiences of members of the Roundtable in Regional Education Congress Higher diesel consumption was explained by a 9.5% fleet increase and a 6.3% increase in equipment availability organised by the Collahuasi Educational Foundation in November 2012. while higher tyre consumption reflected an increase in the fleet of extraction trucks. Lower consumption of steel Regional Educational Portal As part of its mission, the Collahuasi Educational Foundation carries out day-to-day work to increase balls was a result of the drop in production of copper concentrate. knowledge about and adoption of best educational practices through the development and implementation of a permanent and ongoing plan. In this context, it formed an alliance with the Educarchile portal to create a regional educational portal with the potential to become a powerful tool for dialogue among local players aligned with this strategy. 158 In 2012, the information required to give the portal a regional identity was gathered. It will be launched in 2013 159 page and a communications plan implemented to draw attention to its existence. page Higher consumption of NaSH reflected the quality of concentrate (higher ultra-fine content), a lower molybdenum BIODIVERSITY ore grade received in the collective concentrate and discontinuity in the feeding of concentrate into the slurry pipeline. [EN11] The following company installations are located in priority sites for the conservation of biodiversity: [EN2] In 2012, there was a reduction in the volume of oil reused to produce explosives (ANFO) for the blasting Location of Adjacent operational installations in Value of protected process. At 60,500 litres, this represented a 6% saving on diesel for ANFO production. In 2012, a total of 3,407 m of 3 Sector Type of operation installations relation to protected area area oil was used in mine equipment. Coposa Salt Flat and JachuCoposa Norte well field 17 km to north Water withdrawal Priority conservation site coposa Wetland Materials reused Units 2010 2011 2012 Conservation of biodiMichincha Salt Flat Michincha well field 5 km to north Water withdrawal versity Mining oil (litres) 209,515 284,940 60,500 Oxides plant, leach pads Conservation of biodiUjina Carcanal 35 m to south Production Dielectric oil (litres) 11,300 and Ujina waste rock dump versity Flotation cell Jachu Ujina and Represa Site protected by National (n°) 17 Concentrator plant 2.7 km to southwest Production agitators Wetlands Water Board (DGA) Perforations and instalWetland compensation Chiclla Wetland lations of Dulcinea-La 6.43 km to northwest Exploration area * Borracha pit The drop in reuse of mining oil was principally a result of difficulties in transporting this material to the plant. These Coposa Norte 20 km to difficulties were resolved at the beginning of 2013. Coposa Norte and PorteQueñoa tree compensaIrruputuncu Volcano north; Portezuelo 6 km to Water withdrawal zuelo well fields tion area ** south Shipment port and molybIn the period covered by this Report, dielectric oil began to be filtered as part of the maintenance of transformers, Punta Patache Puerto Patache 1 km to northeast Priority conservation site denum plant thereby increasing its useful life. Punta Patache Puerto Patache 1 km al Nordeste Puerto de embarque Sitio prioritario para la Planta Molibdeno conservación * Important for the conservation of fauna and Andean birdlife. Collahuasi’s share of demand for electricity in the Northern Interconnected Grid (SING) has evolved as follows: ** Species with conservation problems. [EN13] The habitats restored by Collahuasi are shown in the table below: 2010 2011 2012 Protected/restored habitat Status Condition of area Size of area Jachucoposa Wetland Restoration underway Good 8 hectares 9% 8% 8% Michincha Salt Flat Restoration underway Acceptable 3 hectares Jachu Ujina and Represa Wetlands Without intervention Good 23.8 hectares Chiclla Wetland Restoration underway Good 1.8 hectares Irruputuncu Volcano Restoration underway Good 60.3 hectares Analysis of the primary source of the electricity used by Collahuasi Restoration of the different areas continued in 2012 and it is expected that it will be completed once the authorities % of generation in SING verify compliance with the corresponding undertakings. Overall 82% 14% 2% 2% 5.1.1. Environmental investment and expenditure [EN30] The environmental management costs incurred by the company were as follows: Environmental management costs Coal Natural gas DIESEL Others Costos (US$) Integral waste treatment 7,072,000 Treatment of emissions 290,307 External certification of management systems 47,000 Other environmental management costs 2,352,251 Total 9,761,558 160 161 page page The environmental investments implemented by Collahuasi in 2012 were as follows: Annual direct emissions Scope 1 (tCO2e) 2010 2011 2012 Environmental investments Mine 292,138 359,804 420,298 Sulphides 5,088 44,813 12,868 Project (US$) Leaching 21,440 23,119 23,868 Air quality monitoring station 120,000 Cogeneration plant 31,917 39,199 6,503 Meteorological station 150,000 Others 3,886 10,195 8,924 R&D 3,186,728 Total Scope 1 emissions 354,468 477,130 472,461 Permanent water level and quality monitoring equipment 12,129 Source: Collahuasi Energy Efficiency Programme (EEP) Report, consolidated December 2009. Includes the emissions of all the company’s installations and equipment. Total 3,468,857 (*) Source: For the calculation of the GHG inventory, the methodology used was that proposed by the GHG Protocol (WRI/WBCSD). (**) Source: IPCC 2006. IPCC Guidelines for National Greenhouse Gas Inventories, Vol 2. Table 1.2: Net calorific values. (***) Source: GHG Protocol: Tool for stationary combustion. In addition to the amounts indicated above, the company also invested US$3,383,000 in the Environmental Impact Study for its Phase III Expansion (yet to be submitted to the authorities). The work undertaken included preparation of baselines for fauna, flora and vegetation, archaeology, oceanography, acid rock drainage and water resources. In the case of Scope 2 emissions, analysis of the primary energy sources used to generate electricity shows that, in 2012, coal continued to play an important role in the Northern Interconnected Grid (SING), implying that the ENERGY emissions factor of electricity supplied by this system also remained high. Energy efficiency initiatives Annual indirect emissions Scope 2 (tCO2e) 2010 2011 2012 Mine 42,993 47,284 59,784 [EN5] The ageing of mines as an operation advances means that the extraction and production of copper is ever Sulphides 822,940 723,713 686,596 more energy-intensive and the resulting increase in energy consumption per tonne of copper output poses a very Leaching 91,545 80,875 78,474 complex management challenge. Others 90,175 78,695 78,073 Total Scope 2 emissions 1,047,653 930,531 902,927 Energy consumption per tonne of copper content 2010 2011 2012 (*) Source: Collahuasi Energy Efficiency Programme (EEP) Report, consolidated December 2009. Includes the emissions of all the company’s installations and equipment. produced (*) Source: For the calculation of the GHG inventory, the methodology used was that proposed by the GHG Protocol (WRI/WBCSD). (*) Source: IPCC 2006. IPCC Guidelines for National Greenhouse Gas Inventories, Vol 2. Table 1.2: Net calorific values. GJ/tonne Cu (Cu sulphide + Cu (*) Source: GHG Protocol: Tool for stationary combustion. 17.57 20.29 34.21 oxide) Indirect CO2 emissions Videoconferences [EN17] The strategic inputs considered in the calculation of the carbon footprint which form part of Scope 3 are [EN7] Reduction of indirect energy consumption is shown in the case of the use of videoconferences as an alternative those that significantly impact Collahuasi’s production cycle. The most important are linings of crushers and mills, to business travel. In 2012, the number of videoconferences held by the company again increased significantly, mill balls, lime, sulphuric acid, tyres and lubricants. reducing travel for face-to-face meetings. The CO2 emissions of these strategic inputs are shown below: N° of videoconferences Videoconferences 2010 1,376 Other indirect emissions 2011 1,774 Scope 3 (tCO2e) 2010 2011 2012 2012 1,633 Mine 26,302 52,557 16,268 Sulphides 35,240 81,658 117,825 Leaching 36,826 12,400 62,461 EMISSIONS, DISCHARGES AND WASTE Others 81,085 221,392 181,720 Total Scope 3 emissions 179,454 368,008 378,274 Direct CO2 emissions Fugitive emissions [EN16] Collahuasi’s direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions are calculated using consumption of fuel by trucks and pick-ups and by the cogeneration plant. The energy used in the processes of the company’s different areas takes the [EN19] In the case of fugitive emissions, 65.2% of the refrigerants used by the company in 2012 corresponded to form of petrol, diesel, explosives, residual fuel oil and LPG. R-407C (Genetron), an ecological refrigerant. This was in line with the company’s undertaking to minimise the impact of its air emissions. The emissions factors used for indirect emissions in the Northern Interconnected Grid (SING) are those recommended by the International Carbon Bank & Exchange and the adaptation of the Revised 1996 IPCC Guidelines for National Greenhouse Gas Inventories: Reference Manual. 162 163 page page 2. Tabla Gri Emissions generated by refrigerants Amount (kg) 2010 441 2011 477 PROFILE Data measurement 3.9 16 2012 260 1. Strategy and Analysis techniques. Statement from the chair Effect of any re1.1 of the board of directors 11 statements of The only refrigerant used by Collahuasi that is subject to control under the Montreal Protocol and, by default, under 3.10 16 or general manager. information provided in earlier reports. Chile’s Supreme Decree (DS) 37 is R-22 (a non-ecological refrigerant) of which 90.4 kg were used in 2012. Key impacts, risks and 1.2 36 Significant changes in opportunities. 3.11 165 scope. Air emissions 2. Organisational Profile 3.12 GRI content index. 165 2.1 Name of the organisation. 26 3.3. Assurance Primary brands, [EN20] In 2012, Collahuasi improved the quality of information about its carbon footprint as a result of the 3.13 Assurance. 16 2.2 products and/or 26 continuous improvement established under the norms governing its GHG inventory. The international GHG Protocol services. 4. Governance, Commitments and Engagement requires independent reporting of Scope 1 emissions and these are shown below: 2.3 Operational structure. 26 4.1. Governance Location of the 4.1 Governance structure. 58 2.4 organisation's 28 Air emissions headquarters. Chair of the board of 4.2 directors in executive 59 Summary of GHG Emissions Countries where the posts. 2.5 26 organisation operates. CO2 CH4 N2O tCO2e Number of independent Nature of ownership 4.3 members of the board 59 2010 1.539,333 122 128 1,581,575 2.6 28 and legal form. of directors. 2011 440,153 23 122 477,130 2.7 Markets served. 33 Mechanisms for 2012 429,414 23 142 472,461 Scale of the 4.4 communication with 40 2.8 26, 33, 146 the board of directors. organisation. Significant changes Linkage between This breakdown improves the quantification of the principal gases emitted by the company. 2.9 during the reporting 30 4.5 compensation and 59 period. performance. Processes in place WATER 2.10 Awards and 38 4.6 to avoid conflicts of 59 recognitions received. interest. 3. Report Parameters Other water sources Training and experience Directors have experience in 3.1. Report Profile 4.7 of members of the the sustainable management of board of directors. their own companies. 3.1 Reporting period. 16 Collahuasi has entered into undertakings as regards maintenance of water flow not only in the Jachucoposa Spring Date of most recent Mission, values and 4.8 35 3.2 16 principles. but also a number of other water bodies that include the Michincha Spring and the Huinquintipa Ravine. Average previous report. Overseeing of flows in 2012 are shown in the table below: 3.3 Reporting cycle. 16 4.9 36 performance and risks. Contact point regarding 3.4 contraportada Collahuasi does not carry out the report. Evaluation of evaluations of this type; the Annual average performance of Variable Unidad Process for defining 4.10 directors are evaluated by 3.5 16 members of board of 2010 2011 2012 report content. the companies to which they directors. belong. Average flow of Jachucoposa Spring (natural) (L/s) 24.5 33.4 40.3 3.2. Scope and Boundary 4.2. Commitment to External Initiatives Average flow at Jachucoposa measurement station (natural + mitigation) (L/s) 66.3 60.3 58.2 All the company’s operations are included: the Ujina, Rosario Precautionary approach Average flow at Michincha measurement station (mitigation) (L/s) 4.7 4.8 4.5 4.11 36 and Huinquintipa deposits, or principles. Average flow at Huinquintipa measurement station (natural) (L/s) 7.5 17.3 28.2 3.6 Boundary of the report. its installations in Coposa Principles or and Puerto Patache and the programmes to which activities of its Iquique, Pica and 4.12 36 the organisation Santiago offices. It should be noted that the Coposa basin and the Huinquintipa sub-basin correspond to sources of which Collahuasi subscribes. Limitations on the is the only user. Michincha, on the other hand, is a shared basin from which water was extracted before the company 3.7 scope or boundary of 16 Principal associations to 4.13 which the organisation 36 began withdrawals, resulting in the disappearance of the Michincha Spring. However, in 2005, the company undertook the report. belongs. During the reporting to restore the total water flow of this spring and an artificial mitigation flow of close to 5 L/s is maintained as period, there were no joint 4.2. Stakeholder Engagement established in Environmental Permit (RCA) N° 167/2001. ventures, new subsidiaries, List of stakeholder Basis for reporting on leased facilities or 4.14 groups engaged by the 18 3.8 subsidiaries and others. outsourced operations that organisation. could significantly affect comparability from period to Basis for selection period. 4.15 of stakeholders with 18 whom to engage. 164 165 page page Approaches to Initiatives to reduce All hazardous waste generated 1. Labour Practices and Decent Work 4.16 stakeholder 18, 67, 104 EN7 indirect energy 162 by Collahuasi is transported engagement. consumption. and treated by companies in 1.1. Employment Chile. In 2012, 3,925 tonnes Workforce by Key topics and concerns 3. Water of hazardous waste were 4.17 23 employment type, raised by stakeholders. transported in 342 trucks from LA1 63, 148, 149 Total water withdrawal employment contract EN8 140 the Cordillera worksite and ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE by source. and region. Puerto Patache by GESAM, Economic management Water sources affected Weight of transported Number and rate of DMA 146 EN9 137 Transporte Moscoso y Moscoso, approach. by withdrawal of water. EN24 waste deemed LA2 employee turnover by 63, 150, 151 Transportes Alborada and hazardous. gender and region. 1. Economic Performance Total volume of water Transportes Pitancura for EN10 141 final disposal by Soluciones recycled and reused. Benefits provided to Direct economic Ambientales del Norte Ltda. LA3 69 employees. EC1 value generated and 146 4. Biodiversity (Sierra Gorda), Recicladora distributed. Ambiental (Calama), Crowan Return to work and Collahuasi does not have a Description of land and (San Antonio), Inacesa EN11 161 retention rates after register of days of leave related Financial implications its biodiversity value. (Antofagasta) and Celite Chile LA15* EC2 124 parental leave by to maternity and paternity for due to climate change. Ltda. (Arica). Description of impacts gender. the reporting period. EN12 114 Coverage of the on biodiversity. In its Environmental Impact 1.2. Labour/Management Relations organisation’s Studies and Declarations, EC3 70 Land disturbed or defined benefit plan MM1 28 Collahuasi undertook not to Employees covered by obligations. rehabilitated. discharge liquid waste into any LA4 a collective bargaining 71, 151 Habitats protected or land or maritime water body. agreement. Financial assistance EN13 161 EC4 received from 42 restored. It generates liquid industrial Notice periods are not government. Strategies, current waste only in the recovery of specified in the collective actions and future plans molybdenum and the filtering Minimum notice contract. However, in the 2. Market Presence EN14 114 of copper concentrate in Puerto for managing impacts LA5 period(s) regarding case of important changes in Range of ratios of on biodiversity. Biodiversity value of Patache and this is sent to organisational changes. the organisation, these are standard entry level water bodies affected the liquid waste treatment announced at least seven days EC5 72 Strategies, current EN25 by the reporting plant (nanofiltration and beforehand. wage compared to local minimum wage. actions and future plans organisation’s reverse osmosis), producing MM2 113 Number of strikes and for managing impacts discharges of water. permeate and reject water. Policy, practices and on biodiversity. Permeate water is reused in MM4 lock-outs exceeding 71 EC6 spending on locally103 the molybdenum production one week’s duration. based suppliers. Number species with process and to irrigate the EN15 habitats in areas 113 1.3. Occupational Health and Safety forestation area while reject EC7 Local hiring. 67 affected by operations. water is sent to the dissolved Employees represented 3. Indirect Economic Impacts 5. Emissions, Effluents and Waste air flotation (DAF) plant where LA6 in health and safety 52 the metals it may still contain committees. Investments in Greenhouse gas are removed and, once treated, EN16 124, 162 Absenteeism, lost days infrastructure and emissions. goes to the evaporation ponds. LA7 54 EC8 services provided 105 and fatalities. primarily for public Other indirect 6. Products and Services EN17 greenhouse gas 124, 163 Training in risk benefit. LA8 49 emissions. Mitigation of prevention and control. Indirect economic EN26 environmental impacts 117 EC9 147 Initiatives to reduce of products. Health and safety Life and complementary health impacts. greenhouse gas topics covered in formal insurance are stipulated in the EN18 128 LA9 ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE emissions and Percentage of agreements with trade collective contract signed in Collahuasi does not generate reductions achieved. products sold and their unions. 2010 and currently in force. Environmental packaging materials that are DMA 113, 123, 135 EN27 packaging materials management approach. Emissions of ozonereclaimed at the end of their 1.4. Training and Education EN19 163 that are reclaimed by depleting substances. useful life. 1. Materials category of products. Hours of training per LA10 71 Other significant air 7. Compliance year per employee. Materials used by EN20 164 EN1 116, 159 emissions. weight or volume. Fines and sanctions for Programmes for LA11 152 EN21 Total water discharge. 118 non-compliance with fostering employability. EN2 Recycled materials. 160 EN28 43 Weight of waste environmental laws and Performance and career 2. Energy EN22 116 regulations. LA12 66 managed. development reviews. Direct energy Total amounts of 8. Transport 1.5. Diversity and Equal Opportunity EN3 130 No movements representing consumption. overburden, rock, MM3 potential risks took place during Environmental impacts Composition of Indirect energy tailings and sludges and EN29 of transport of 126 EN4 130 the reporting period. LA13 governance bodies and 63, 151 consumption. their associated risks. products. workforce. Energy saved due Most significant 9. Overall EN23 118 Ratio of basic salary to conservation accidental spills. LA14 72 EN5 130, 162 Environmental men/women. and efficiency improvements. EN30 expenditures and 161 investments. Initiatives to provide EN6 energy-efficient 124, 130 SOCIAL PERFORMANCE products and services. Social management DMA 61, 75, 81, 89, 101 approach. * Indicators that correspond to the new version of GRI 3.1. 166 167 page page 2. Human Rights Disputes relating to 4.2. Customer Health and Safety 4.4. Marketing Communications land use, customary Given that it produces a 2.1. Investment and Procurement Practices No legal action has been filed Collahuasi does not evaluate MM6 rights of local commodity, Collahuasi does not against the company. the life cycle stages of its Human rights clauses in communities and undertake marketing activities. HR1* 104 indigenous peoples. Customer health and products since it is an extractive investment contracts. PR1 However, it continues to carry safety. mining company and, therefore, Marketing Grievance mechanisms In 2012, there were no disputes PR6 out corporate marketing Human rights screening does not market end products communications. HR2 104 used to resolve relating to land use, customary activities in the media and of contractors. for direct consumption. MM7 through the campaigns of the disputes referred to in rights of local communities and Employee training on MM6. indigenous peoples. Incidents relating business associations to which In 2012, no activities of this to health and safety it belongs. HR3 human rights policies No incidents of this type type took place. Operations with PR2 impacts of products and procedures. occurred in 2012. Incidents of nonNo incidents relating to SO9* negative impacts on 19 and services during compliance with non-compliance of this type 2.2. Non-Discrimination local communities. their life cycle. PR7 regulation of marketing occurred during the reporting Incidents of Prevention and 4.3. Product and Service Labelling communications. period. HR4 discrimination and 40 mitigation measures The quality of Collahuasi’s 4.5. Customer Privacy actions taken. SO10* implemented for 19, 84 copper cathodes is registered Complaints regarding No incidents relating to negative impacts on Product and service under the European REACH breaches of customer non-compliance of this type Freedom of association PR3 PR8 local communities. labelling. system and with the London privacy and losses of occurred during the reporting HR5 and collective 71 bargaining. 3.2. Artisanal and Small-Scale Mining and New York metals customer data. period. exchanges. 2.3. Child Labour 4.6. Compliance Operating sites where Incidents of nonIn 2012, Collahuasi did not No artisanal mining takes place Significant fines for artisanal and smallcompliance relating receive sanctions or fines for Purchase orders include clauses MM8 on the company’s operating PR4 non-compliance with scale mining (ASM) to information and incidents relating to product HR6 Child labour. requiring compliance with the sites or in the surrounding area. laws and regulations In 2012, no fines were received takes place. labelling. information and labelling. regulation in force in Chile. PR9 concerning the for non-compliance with this 3.3. Resettlement Using the flexibility provided provision and use of the regulation. 2.4. Forced Labour by the company's off-take organisation's products Community No community resettlements Purchase orders include clauses MM9 contract with its shareholders, and services. resettlements. took place in 2012. HR7 Forced labour. requiring compliance with the the volumes they received regulation in force in Chile. 3.4. Closure Planning Practices related to was adjusted in line with the PR5 customer satisfaction. reduction in Collahuasi's output 2.5. Security Practices MM10 Closure plans. 32 in 2012. Direct clients received Se entrega al 100% del personal 3.5. Corruption the volumes established in de seguridad el Reglamento mutually agreed delivery Interno de Orden, Higiene Risks of corruption in programmes for 2012. SO2 40 Training of security y Seguridad, que señala business units. HR8 personnel in human explícitamente “Comprender Percentage of rights. y aceptar los principios SO3 employees with anti36, 41 establecidos en la Declaración corruption training. Universal de los Derechos Humanos”. Actions taken in These principles are advocated (or adhered to) by these three entities: SO4 response to incidents 40 2.6. Indigenous Rights of corruption. Indicator Operations taking 3.6. Public Policy place in or adjacent to EC2-EC5-EC7-EN1-EN2-EN3-EN4-EN5-EN6-EN7-EN8-EN9-EN10-EN11-EN12-EN13-EN14-EN15-EN16-EN17-EN18-EN19-EN20MM5 83 Global indigenous peoples’ SO5 Public policy positions. 36 EN21-EN22-EN23-EN24-EN25-EN26-EN27-EN28-EN29-EN30-LA2-LA3-LA4-LA5-LA6-LA7-LA8-LA9-LA13-LA14-HR1-HR2-HR3territories. Compact HR4-HR5-HR6-HR7-HR8-HR9-SO1-SO2-SO3-SO4-SO5-SO6-PR1-PR2-PR3-PR4-PR8 Contributions to Collahuasi does not make Incidents relating to SO6 political parties or donations or contributions of violations of rights of No related incidents occurred related institutions. any type to political parties. HR9 EC1-EC8-EC9-EN1-EN2-EN3-EN4-EN5-EN6-EN7-EN8-EN9-EN10-EN13-EN14-EN17-EN18-EN19-EN20-EN21-EN22-EN23-EN24indigenous people and in 2012. ICMM 3.7. Anti-Competitive Behaviour EN25-EN26-EN27-LA1-LA2-LA3-LA6-LA8-LA9-LA10-LA11-LA12-LA13-LA14-HR1-HR2-HR4-HR6-HR7-HR9-SO1-PR1 actions taken. Legal actions related 2.7. Assessment No legal action of this type was to anti-competitive 1.1-1.2-2.3-3.13-4.1-4.2-4.3-4.4-4.5-4.6-4.7-4.8-4.9-4.10-4.12-4.13-4.14-4.15-4.16-4.17-DMA-EC1-EC2-EC5-EC6-EC7-EC8-EC9SO7 filed against the company in Operations that have behaviour and DMA-EN1-EN2-EN3-EN4-EN5-EN6-EN7-EN8-EN9-EN10-EN11-EN12-EN13-EN14-EN15-EN16-EN17-EN18-EN19-EN20-EN21Purchase orders include clauses 2012. been subject to human monopoly practices. ISO 26.000 EN22-EN23-EN24-EN25-EN26-EN27-EN28-EN29-EN30-LA1-LA2-LA3-LA4-LA5-LA6-LA7-LA8-LA9-LA10-LA11-LA12-LA13HR10* requiring compliance with the rights reviews and/or LA14-HR1-HR2-HR3-HR4-HR5-HR6-HR7-HR8-HR9-SO1-SO2-SO3-SO4-SO5-SO6-SO7-SO8-PR1-PR2-PR3-PR4-PR5-PR6-PR7regulation in force in Chile. 3.8. Compliance impact assessments. PR8-PR9 Fines and sanctions for 2.8. Remediation SO8 non-compliance with 43 In 2012, there were no laws. Grievances related to HR11* grievances related to human human rights. 4. Product Responsibility rights. 4.1. Materials Stewardship 3. Society Programmes and 3.1. Community MM11 progress relating to 117 Impact of operations on materials stewardship. SO1 84 communities. * Indicators that correspond to the new version of GRI 3.1. 168 169 page page 3. Assurance Statement on the Sustainability Report of Compañía Minera Doña Inés de Collahuasi Jorge Gómez Executive President Compañía Minera Doña Inés de Collahuasi ASSURANCE STATEMENT SCOPE AND LIMITATIONS BSD Consulting has carried out independent assurance of the preparation by Compañía Minera Doña Inés de The scope of our work includes the information in the complete version of the 2012 Sustainability Report of Collahuasi of its 2012 Sustainability Report in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G3.1 Guidelines. Compañía Minera Doña Inés de Collahuasi for the reporting period. An independent assurance process of Type 1, The assurance took place for the second consecutive year for the purpose of providing the company’s stakeholders providing a moderate level of assurance, was carried out in accordance with the principles of the AA1000 Assurance with an independent opinion on the Report’s quality, stakeholder engagement processes, adherence to the Standard 2008, including assurance of compliance with the company’s accountability process under the principles of principles of AA1000AS 2008 and the company’s sustainable management. Inclusivity, Materiality and Responsiveness. INDEPENDENCE METHODOLOGY BSD Consulting declares that the assurance was carried out independently and confirms that none of its personnel Assurance of the AA1000 process consisted in: has consultancy contracts or other commercial ties with Compañía Minera Doña Inés de Collahuasi. • Dialogues with company stakeholders (community, direct and contractors’ employees and local suppliers) to BSD Consulting has an AccountAbility licence as an assurance provider (AA1000 Licensed Assurance Provider) under assure compliance with the principles of AA1000: Inclusivity, Materiality and Responsiveness; registration number 000-131. • Assurance of the content of the 2012 Sustainability Report and its adherence to the GRI G3.1 Guidelines and OUR SKILLS the principles of AA1000AS 2008; BSD Consulting is an international company that specialises in sustainability. The assurance was carried out by a group of professionals with experience and specific training in external assurance processes. • Interviews with senior management in order to understand the integration of sustainability into the organisation’s strategy; RESPONSIBILITIES OF MINERA DOÑA INÉS DE COLLAHUASI AND BSD CONSULTING The preparation of the company’s Sustainability Report as well as of its content is the responsibility of Compañía • Review of the processes for definition of materiality and preparation of the 2012 Sustainability Report; Minera Doña Inés de Collahuasi. The purpose of the work of BSD Consulting is to validate the Report and assure its GRI application level. • Visit to the company’s installations in the city of Iquique and at the worksite to assure implementation of 170 171 page page improvements in the Pioneros contractors’ camp and the conditions of its canteen and recreation facilities for • internal communications. contractors’ employees; Finally and in relation to its communities, the company has permanently maintained fluid and transparent • Interviews with executives and personnel in key areas of the company related to management of relevant communication, improving its investment plans and engagement model in order to develop the initiatives that are issues; of interest to these communities in a participative way. It should be noted that, for these stakeholders, the following issues continue to be important and call for special attention on the company’s part: • Assurance of the quality and reliability of a significant sample of GRI indicators and selected data through interviews, support documents and review of the information system. • external assurance of environmental issues in fishing villages; • improvements in communication and participation in the definition of investment projects; PRINCIPAL CONCLUSIONS AA1000AS 2008 PRINCIPLES • training with a focus on employability. In the assurance process, it is important to draw attention to background information that is relevant to the conclusions we present to the company and its stakeholders. This refers particularly to the management intervention The company is working on these issues and developing improvements that may be presented in 2013. process to which the company was subject in 2012 by two of its principal shareholders (Anglo American and Xstrata Copper now Glencore) and the internal implications of this process. 2.MATERIALITY REFERS TO THE ISSUES NECESSARY FOR STAKEHOLDERS TO TAKE DECISIONS ABOUT THE COMPANY’S ECONOMIC, SOCIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE The audit process took place during this period and it is, therefore, important to note that the company sought to strengthen its internal structures, deepen its industrial safety policies following the fatalities that occurred in 2012 The company’s definition of materiality is clearly reflected and is aligned with stakeholders’ expectations. referred to by the company’s President in his Message in the 2012 Report and address the challenges posed as regards sustainability in the context of this new administration. The company has engaged in permanent dialogue with its stakeholders with the intention of identifying the most material issues and, in this way, gaining a better understanding of their expectations. We could observe the current management’s commitment to reinforcing its efforts and commitments to stakeholders, particularly, the company’s own and contractors’ employees, and to strengthening corporate culture Key material issues include the company’s conduct on environmental matters as reflected in measurement of and good relations with communities. the carbon footprint of its products as well as the operation, its concern about climate change and its first solar photovoltaic plant, combined with the implementation of concrete measures such as: Many of these commitments were developed in 2012 and will begin to show results in 2013. • energy efficiency and alternative renewable energies (AREs); 1.INCLUSIVITY ADDRESSES STAKEHOLDER PARTICIPATION IN ORDER TO DEVELOP AND ACHIEVE A • fuel and electricity consumption; STRATEGIC RESPONSE TO SUSTAINABILITY IN THE ORGANISATION • reduction of its carbon footprint. In 2012, the company progressed in strengthening relations with its suppliers in order to foster their development The company clearly sets out its risks and measures for their management in a way that this is appropriate and and ensure the quality of its value chain. To this end, it established alliances with government bodies in order to transparent, indicating its negative as well as positive impacts such as the three fatalities that occurred in 2012. support these suppliers and improve their performance. The company has in place an adequate management system that enables it to monitor its commitments as regards Commitment to the development of local suppliers was also one of the company’s objectives and it advanced in the sustainability. implementation of new projects geared to these stakeholders. However, it is important to note that, among these stakeholders, the perception is that there remain opportunities for improvement, particularly as regards the long3.RESPONSIVENESS ADDRESSES MEASURES DEFINED BY THE COMPANY IN RELATION TO THE DEMANDS term vision that the company must build with these important stakeholders. OF ITS STAKEHOLDERS Although the company has maintained a permanent channel of dialogue with its employees, it is important to note In 2012, the company improved its responsiveness, aligned with material issues for sustainability and connected opportunities for improvement in areas such as: with its stakeholders’ expectations. Adherence to the GRI G3.1 Guidelines is clear, addressing the principal material issues. • identity and corporate culture; • integration of its own and contractors’ employees; The assurance noted the proper compiling of indicators that demonstrate the company’s commitments on social, • conditions of infrastructure at the Pioneros Camp; environmental and economic issues and that these are based on information and data gathered in accordance with GRI G3.1 protocols. 172 173 page page However, it is important that the company improve its responsiveness to some issues that are material to certain stakeholders such as its coastal communities. Although the company presents all the actions developed for these stakeholders, their perception is that further improvements are required in information about environmental aspects of conditions in their fishing villages. The targets and commitments established by the company are clear and can be monitored by stakeholders. GRI G3.1 APPLICATION LEVEL In accordance with the GRI G3.1 Guidelines, BSD declares that the 2012 Sustainability Report of Compañía Minera Doña Inés de Collahuasi complies with Application Level A+. The Report provides clear information on issues related to the company’s profile and describes its sustainability management processes. All the information related to economic, social, environmental, human rights, labour practices, society and product responsibility categories, aspects and indicators as well as Mining and Metals Sector Supplement indicators are developed and presented in this Report. Hugo Vergara Recabal Managing Partner BSD Consulting Group Santiago, Chile, 13 June 2013 174 175 page page 4. Report on evaluation of CMDIC’s Sustainability Report and assurance of commitments for 2012 Jorge Gómez Executive President CMDIC Dear Mr. Gómez, Please find attached the conclusions of the agreed evaluation and assurance work carried out by Red Puentes. However, we consider that the length of the Report is still not appropriate as regards its accessibility for different stakeholders. 1) Participation in stakeholder analysis by BSD Consulting. AA1000 Assurance Standard. 3) Assurance of commitments Red Puentes participated as an observer in the workshops held by BSD Consulting with communities on the coast, suppliers and the company’s own and contractors’ employees. We value the fact that, at a time of some crisis, CMDIC Complete information was available for assurance of CMDIC’s 30 commitments for 2012, all of which could be made the effort and took the time to study the demands and problems of its stakeholders and move forward in directly assured with greater ease than in the previous year given their more precise formulation. We also found its application of the AA1000 Assurance Standard. We recommend that the results of these workshops reports that, despite the company’s operational problems, there was a high level of achievement of and compliance with the are addressed since they contribute to better relations with priority stakeholders and, therefore, CMDIC’s greater commitments and noted that the company maintained its efforts to fulfil them. We consider that further progress as sustainability. We also recommend that the areas of the company whose performance relates directly to priority regards the company’s commitments calls for monitoring during the year, more participative evaluation mechanisms stakeholders (Human Resources, Community Relations, Corporate Affairs, Contracts and others) increase their in each area of the company responsible for the results and greater internal communication and knowledge of the coordination and complementation in addressing them. commitments for each particular year. 2) Evaluation of 2011 Sustainability Report and final pre-publication draft of 2012 Sustainability Report Our complete reports and recommendations have been supplied to the company’s Corporate Affairs area. Using its methodology, Red Puentes analysed 83 GRI 3.1 indicators contained in the 2011 Sustainability Report and Yours sincerely, found complete information for 50 indicators (62.2%), including particularly Environment, Community Development and Organisational Governance. For a further 21 indicators (25.3%), the information provided was sufficient while, for 12 indicators (14.5%), it was insufficient. All the 11 Mining Supplement indicators analysed were satisfactorily addressed and, in those cases where the information was considered insufficient (EC4, SO2, SO3, SO4, HR1, HR2, HR5, LA8, LA12, EN24, EC6, SO1), the observations were accepted by Collahuasi and Deloitte the company responsible for preparing the Report for the 2012 version. Information for human rights indicators HR1, HR2, HR5 is scarce Gilberto Ortiz Silva and the company needs to develop this issue further. It was noted positively that the 2011 Report and the current Red Puentes Chile Report represent a significant improvement as regards their design and the pedagogical quality of the information. June 2013 176 177 page page 5. Feedback Survey We would like to know your opinion of this Sustainability Report so as to take your comments and suggestions into account in continuing to improve our reports. 1. To which of the following groups of Collahuasi stakeholders do you belong? Shareholder Community in general (Iquique, Santiago) Investor Regional government Employee Regulatory body Customer Environmental group Supplier Business sector Contractor Other (please specify) Community in vicinity of Collahuasi operations ______________________________________________ (Pica, Huasco, Matilla) ______________________________________________ __________________________________ 2. How would you describe the following aspects of this Sustainability Report? A. Length B. Usefulness of the information presented C. Transparency and honesty Very good Very good Very good Good Good Good Satisfactory Satisfactory Satisfactory Poor Poor Poor Very poor Very poor Very poor D. Lay-out and design E. Clarity and ease of understanding Very good Very good Good Good Satisfactory Satisfactory Poor Poor Very poor Very poor 3. What improvements would you suggest for our next Sustainability Report? Why? _________________________________________________________________________________________________________ _________________________________________________________________________________________________________ _________________________________________________________________________________________________________ Please send your completed questionnaire to Bernardita Fernández, Corporate Affairs Manager: By e-mail: bernarditafernandez@collahuasi.cl By post: Avda. Andrés Bello 2687, piso 11. Edificio del Pacífico. Santiago de Chile. By Fax: (56 2) 2 362 6592 Thank you very much for your comments. 178 179 page page Compañía Minera Doña Inés de Collahuasi SCM Oficinas en Iquique Avenida Baquedano 902 Iquique, 1ª Región de Tarapacá, Chile Teléfono: +56 57 2417 777 Código Postal: 1100960 Oficinas en Pica Blanco Encalada 280 Pica, 1ª Región de Tarapacá, Chile Teléfono: +56 57 2741 258 Código Postal: 117007 Oficinas en Santiago Avenida Andrés Bello 2687, Piso 11 Las Condes, Santiago, Chile Teléfono: +56 2 2362 6500 Fax: +56 2 362 6562 Código Postal: 7550611 www.collahuasi.cl Reporte de Desarrollo Sustentable Compañía Minera Doña Inés de Collahuasi Ejercicio 2012 Dirección General: Vicepresidencia Legal, Asuntos Corporativos y Comunidades Desarrollo de contenidos: Deloitte Verificado por: Diseño: Interfaz Diseño Fotografía: Arturo Morales Alfredo Oñate Sergio Tordoya Archivo Collahuasi Impresión: Ograma Julio 2013 Para mayor información sobre los contenidos del presente Reporte, consultas, sugerencias y/o comentarios, favor dirigirse a Bernardita Fernández, Gerente de Asuntos Corporativos. Email: bernarditafernandez@collahuasi.cl Accionistas CMDIC
