2012-13 corporate responsibility report Our greatest contribution to society is contents making medicines that help people live 2 Message from the CEO 34 Conducting Our Business Ethically and Transparently longer, healthier, more active lives. But 4 2012 Corporate Responsibility Highlights 49 Supporting Strong Workplace Practices our company vision—to improve global 5 About Lilly 63 Engaging with Patients 6 Our Approach to Corporate Responsibility health in the 21st century—demands 66 Lilly Around the World 8 Key Performance Indicators and Goals that we do even more. 72 Fostering Environmental Sustainability 10 Improving Global Health 92 About This Report 17 Researching and Developing Innovative Medicines 93 Global Reporting Initiative Index 108 United Nations Global Compact Index Message from the ceo Message from the ceo 2012 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY HIGHLIGHTS About Lilly Our Approach to Corporate Responsibility In 1876, a 37-year-old man made a decision Over the last decade, we have transformed that changed the course of history. He had our corporate responsibility efforts, sharpImproving Global Health just returned from service in the U.S. Army. ening our focus on improving health for His wife had recently died from malaria, and people in lowand middle-income countries Researching and Developing he was raising his young son on his own, and strengthening the communities where Innovative Medicines with little money to their name. Despite we work and live. We’re balancing traditional these circumstances—maybe because of philanthropy—which dates back to the Conducting Our Business Ethically them—he took a risk. He started Eli Lilly earliest days of our company—with novel and Transparently and Company with the goal of creating approaches that put to work our scientific Supporting Strong Workplace trusted medicines at a time when untested and business expertise, resources, and the Practices elixirs peddled by questionable characters passion of our employees. We’re increasingly were commonplace. linking our corporate responsibility efforts Engaging with Patients together—and to our business—for greater He and subsequent generations of the Lilly impact and continuous learning. Lilly around the world family built a remarkable company focused on quality, discovery, and caring —a company FOSTERING Environmental that has made life better for millions of Improving Global Health sustainability people through its medicines to treat diabetes, infectious diseases, mental health disorders, Our new approach to corporate responsibility ABOUT THIS REPORT cancer, and more. Now, more than 137 is most vividly on display in our two signature years later, I along with nearly 38,000 Lilly global health programs focused on diabetes Global Reporting Initiative index colleagues are entrusted with carrying and tuberculosis. Through these programs, forward this proud legacy. we are partnering with leading health Through the Lilly NCD Partnership, we’re United Nations Global Compact Index organizations and governments to explore investing $30 million over five years to We humbly take up this task, striving as new approaches to complex global health strengthen diabetes care for people in Colonel Lilly urged, to “Take what you find challenges. Our goal: to find new solutions rural and urban settings in Brazil, Mexico, here and make it better and better.” that can be scaled up and replicated around India, and South Africa. We’re leveraging As a global biopharmaceutical company, the world, creating ripple effects and touching our nearly 100 years of diabetes experience our greatest contribution to society is even more lives. and knowledge along with the creativity About the Cover making medicines that help people live The Lilly NCD Partnership was launched and capacity of our partners to test new In isolated areas of South Africa’s Eastern longer, healthier, more active lives. This in 2011 to help fight the rising tide of nonapproaches, report on what works and what Cape, one of the many challenges is the growis the core of what we do. But our company communicable diseases (NCDs), which include doesn’t, and then advocate for the best ing prevalence of non-communicable diseases vision—to improve global health in the 21st heart disease, cancer, chronic respiratory solutions to be replicated. (NCDs). Lilly’s NCD Partnership, in cooperation century—demands that we do even more. diseases, and diabetes. NCDs are the leading The power of partnership is something with the Donald Woods Foundation, provides It calls us to continue along our company’s cause of deaths worldwide, with 80 percent we’ve explored for decades. In South medical assistance to community members, distinguished path of giving back and lifting of NCD-related deaths occurring in lowand Africa, for example, one of our NCD up in new and ever-better ways. middle-income countries. partners is Project HOPE, a remarkable including the women in the photo, many of whom traveled long distances for services at humanitarian health organization. Lilly’s the Hobeni Clinic. partnership with Project HOPE dates back PAGE 2 LILLY 2012-13 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Message from the ceo to 1959, and since then, we have contributed world, including through its partnership forging lasting relationships, and bringing back about $80 million in cash and in-kind gifts with Heifer International. Our goal is to lift personal insights and inspiration that make 2012 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY to support its diabetes education and training 100,000 families out of hunger through the us a better, more globally aware company. HIGHLIGHTS programs, disaster relief efforts, and product donation of livestock, training, and tools. It’s no accident that our employees long to be donations. Through the NCD Partnership, About Lilly There is no question that the complexity of of service to others. Continuing in the tradiwe’re now working with Project HOPE to global health challenges requires collaboration of the Lilly family, we seek to attract and Our Approach to Corporate operate a diabetes clinic and train healthtion across the private sector, governments, retain not only the best and brightest, but the Responsibility care workers in a township on the outskirts NGOs, donors, academia, and providers. In right people who fit naturally with our values of Johannesburg. In 2012, we were honored this spirit, Lilly, along with 12 other major and mission—employees who understand that Improving Global Health to receive Project HOPE’s inaugural Global healthcare companies, signed on to the what we do is second only to how we do it. Health Partner Award. Researching and Developing Guiding Principles on Access to Healthcare In short, corporate responsibility isn’t a Innovative Medicines Collaboration also powers the Lilly MDR-TB during the United Nations General Assembly department or a function at Lilly. It’s part Partnership, which was launched in 2003 to in September 2013. These industry-led of who we are and can be seen in all we Conducting Our Business Ethically fight multidrug-resistant TB. This hard-to-treat principles provide a common framework and Transparently do—from the medicines we make, to how we form of TB particularly afflicts people living in and help shape the cross-sector partnerships interact with each other and the customers cramped, unventilated homes often found in that will drive system-wide change as we Supporting Strong Workplace we serve, to our environmental practices, impoverished communities. It’s preventable collectively work toward and beyond the 2015 Practices and more. and curable if patients get the right medicine Millennium Development Goals. at the right time. But too often that’s not the You’ll find a detailed accounting of all our Engaging with Patients case: MDR-TB needlessly kills more than corporate responsibility efforts in this Lilly around the world 150,000 people each year. Strengthening Communities report—a snapshot in time of how we’re At the heart of our efforts to strengthen striving to live out Colonel Lilly’s timeless The Lilly MDR-TB Partnership is our largest FOSTERING Environmental communities are Lilly employees. I never call to “Take what you find here and make philanthropic effort ever—a $170 million sustainability cease to be amazed by the generosity of our it better and better.” commitment from 2003-2016. Through the partnership, we gave away our manufacturing people, who donate not only money, but also ABOUT THIS REPORT technology and know-how for two antibiotics their time, energy, expertise, and passion in Global Reporting Initiative index to other manufacturers; these two medicines countless ways. are still part of the last line of defense to cure One of my proudest moments each year United Nations Global Compact Index MDR-TB. In addition, we’ve partnered with is when more than 20,000 Lilly employees global health organizations to strengthen John C. Lechleiter, Ph.D. fan out across their local communities as awareness, prevention, and care, and funded part of our Global Day of Service. Armies of Chairman, President, and early TB discovery efforts aimed at finding Chief Executive Officer red-shirted volunteers do everything from desperately needed new treatment options. supporting patients and their families at November 2013 Our current focus is primarily in countries our NCD sites, to beautification projects, to with the highest burden of MDR-TB—China, working in food pantries, and more. They India, Russia, and South Africa—where we’re do in one day what would otherwise take training frontline healthcare providers and months or years to accomplish. improving access to safe, effective, high quality MDR-TB medicines. Through our Connecting Hearts Abroad program, we send at least 100 employees Another example of how we’re working each year to volunteer for two weeks in to improve global health can be found in impoverished communities. Through these the efforts of Elanco, our animal health life-changing service opportunities, our business. Elanco is helping break the employees are seeing firsthand the chalcycle of hunger in communities across the lenges that confront people living in poverty, PAGE 3 LILLY 2012-13 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Message from the ceo 2012 Corporate Responsibility Highlights 2012 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY HIGHLIGHTS Signed the new Guiding Invited to join the Institute of Medicine’s Opened a new LIFE (Lilly Integrated Fitness About Lilly Principles on Access to Roundtable on Health Literacy. Environment) facility at our Indianapolis Our Approach to Corporate Healthcare in 2013 with 12 headquarters to support the well-being of Responsibility other major pharmaceutical our employees. companies as part of a Improving Global Health call for more cross-sector Reduced energy intensity per square collaboration to expand foot of facility space by nearly 18 Researching and Developing access to quality healthcare. percent and decreased GHG emissions Sent more than 20,000 Lilly employees Innovative Medicines intensity by almost 17 percent since in 40 countries to volunteer in their local 2007, exceeding our goals of 15 percent communities through our annual Global Conducting Our Business Ethically Day of Service. reductions by 2013. and Transparently In 2013, announced a first for Supporting Strong Workplace the pharmaceutical industry—a Practices partnership to train minority clinical trial investigators. Committed $170 million in donations from 2003 to Decreased total waste Engaging with Patients 2016 through the Lilly MDR-TB Partnership, Lilly’s generation by nearly 27 largest philanthropic effort to date. percent between 2007 and Lilly around the world 2012 and reduced waste to landfill by approximately FOSTERING Environmental Raised Lilly’s 2013 CDP 62 percent. sustainability climate change disclosure Reduced our total Lowered water intake score to 86, above the industry recordable injury rate by ABOUT THIS REPORT to 12.4 billion liters, average score of 82 and 24 percent since 2007. a 9 percent decrease Global Reporting Initiative index significantly higher than Made approximately $700 from 2011 and a our 2012 score of 65. million in charitable nearly 37 percent United Nations Global Compact Index contributions, including reduction since 2007. cash and products. Integrated our Connecting Hearts Abroad volunteer program with the Lilly NCD Partnership in 2013, sending employees to volunteer at partner sites in South Africa. Recognized by DiversityInc as a “Top Company for Working Families” and cited as a model of workplace flexibility. PAGE 4 LILLY 2012-13 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT About Lilly Message from the ceo 2012 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY HIGHLIGHTS About Lilly Our Approach to Corporate Responsibility At Lilly, we make medicines that help people live longer, healthier, more active lives. Around the globe, we have forged 137 Improving Global Health productive alliances and partnerships that advance our capacity Researching and Developing to develop innovative medicines at lower costs for some of the Innovative Medicines world’s most urgent medical needs. years strong; founded on may 10, 1876, by colonel eli lilly Conducting Our Business Ethically and Transparently Founded in 1876, Lilly has a long history About Elanco of medical innovation, most notably in the Supporting Strong Workplace treatment of infectious diseases, diabetes, Elanco is a division of Lilly that focuses on animal well-being, animal productivity, u.s.a. Practices and depression. Today, our portfolio also includes oncology and bio-medicines. And and food safety in more than 75 countries. Engaging with Patients our emerging markets business unit works The company introduced its first product to deliver medicines to address unmet for veterinary use in 1953 and today offers Lilly around the world needs around the world. For additional more than 30 products. Elanco employs Headquartered in Indianapolis, Indiana, United States information about our corporate history more than 2,700 people worldwide, with FOSTERING Environmental and significant medical breakthroughs, offices in more than 40 countries. Its global sustainability visit the “About” section of www.lilly.com. headquarters is in Greenfield, Indiana, ABOUT THIS REPORT United States, which is also the base of its U.S. business operations. Elanco products Global Reporting Initiative index United Nations Global Compact Index are marketed primarily to cattle, poultry, and swine producers. Elanco Companion Animal Health develops pet medicines and 38,000 employees worldwide assists veterinarians in helping companion animals lead longer, healthier lives. 125 countries where products are marketed PAGE 5 LILLY 2012-13 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Our Approach to Message from the ceo 2012 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY HIGHLIGHTS About Lilly Our Approach to Corporate Responsibility Corporate Responsibility Key Performance Indicators Improving Global Health We recognize that the definition of corporate responsibility for global Researching and Developing Corporate Responsibility companies like Lilly continues to evolve. In addition to core areas like Innovative Medicines Goals for 2013 transparency and business ethics, workplace practices and policies, (2007 baseline, unless stated otherwise) Conducting Our Business Ethically and Transparently and environmental sustainability, we are increasingly asking ourselves 50% how we can partner with others to help address the profound disparities Supporting Strong Workplace Practices in health outcomes that exist in different regions of the world. Engaging with Patients New medicines and approaches are needed—including progress reduction in recordable injury, lost-time injury, and motor in areas such as mental health, cancer, and diabetes—where we vehicle collision rates Lilly around the world collectively have significant expertise. Our company vision inspires us to explore new, sustainable ways to treat more people in our 15% FOSTERING Environmental sustainability areas of therapeutic focus. This includes examining business ABOUT THIS REPORT opportunities to provide medicines to populations that are lower  Reduction in energy use and corresponding Global Reporting Initiative index on the economic pyramid. For more information about our current greenhouse gas emissions (both per square foot of facilities space)6, 7 work in this area, see Improving Global Health. United Nations Global Compact Index How Lilly Manages 5% Corporate Responsibility reduction in water intake, IN ABSOLUTE TERMS (2010 baseline)8 As a global company, Lilly governs priorities, actions, and outcomes. The corporate responsibility issues through SVPCAC also reports regularly to the 20% our global corporate affairs leadership. public policy and compliance committee The senior vice president of corporate of the board of directors, providing a link affairs and communications (SVPCAC) to the corporation’s highest governing body. reports directly to the chief executive Environmental issues are managed by Lilly’s reduction in waste to landfill, IN ABSOLUTE TERMS officer and sits on the corporation’s health, safety, and environment organization, (2010 baseline)9 executive committee, which facilitates which reports to the company’s president of direct engagement with other senior manufacturing, who reports to Lilly’s chief See footnotes on page 9. Lilly leaders on corporate responsibility executive officer. PAGE 6 LILLY 2012-13 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Message from the ceo Leadership on Issues The SVPCAC, SDGHPA, and SDCR play a of Access to Health Care critical role in engaging a range of external 2012 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY stakeholders—including government, HIGHLIGHTS Key Issues for Lilly Given the growing importance and comnon-governmental organizations, and plexity of healthcare access issues, in 2013, Lilly considers a variety of factors and stakemultisector private entities—in dialogue About Lilly Lilly named a senior director of global holder input to determine which issues on healthcare access and broader corporate health programs and access (SDGHPA), Our Approach to Corporate are most relevant or important to our responsibility topics. Staff from our corporate who works alongside the senior director of Responsibility business and our corporate responsibility responsibility and global health and access performance. These factors include patient corporate responsibility (SDCR). Both the departments collaborate and coordinate with needs, conversations and interviews with SDCR and the SDGHPA report directly to Key Performance Indicators the corporate secretary, government affairs, stakeholders, investor queries and feedback, the SVPCAC and sit on the global corporate investor relations, and community relations Improving Global Health business strategy and risk assessment, affairs leadership team. This operational departments to promote dialogue with key public policy dialogue and legislative debate, framework allows for cross-functional stakeholders. For more information on our Researching and Developing and employee interests. work and collaboration on healthcare approach to stakeholder dialogue, see The Innovative Medicines access and other corporate responsibility We consider the following corporate responsibilImportance of Stakeholder Engagement. issues from a global perspective. ity issues to be among the most important to Lilly continues to explore new ways of Conducting Our Business Ethically and Transparently our core business: gaining and sharing insights on a range of • Developing and producing safe and effecrelevant healthcare access and corporate Supporting Strong Workplace tive medicines; responsibility issues. Practices • Upholding ethical standards in business Engaging with Patients practice, research and development, and marketing; Lilly around the world • Addressing issues of access to medicines and their affordability; FOSTERING Environmental sustainability • Maintaining a diverse and engaged global workforce; and ABOUT THIS REPORT • Minimizing environmental impacts and waste. Global Reporting Initiative index United Nations Global Compact Index PAGE 7 LILLY 2012-13 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Message from the ceo Key Performance Indicators 2012 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY HIGHLIGHTS GOAL 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 About Lilly Financial Highlights Our Approach to Corporate Worldwide Revenue $18,633.5 $20,371.9 $21,836.0 $23,076.0 $24,286.5 $22,603.4 Responsibility ($ millions) • Key Performance Indicators U.S. Revenue $10,145.5 $10,930.1 $12,294.4 $12,865.6 $12,977.2 $12,313.1 Improving Global Health Europe $4,731.8 $5,333.5 $5,227.2 $5,106.4 $5,290.9 $4,259.7 Researching and Developing Other Foreign-Country $3,756.2 $4,108.3 $4,314.4 $5,104.0 $6,018.4 $6,030.6 Innovative Medicines Revenue Conducting Our Business Ethically Stock Price ($ at year end) $53.39 $40.27 $35.71 $35.04 $41.56 $49.32 and Transparently Dividend ($ per share) $1.70 $1.88 $1.96 $1.96 $1.96 $1.96 Supporting Strong Workplace Practices Research and Development $3,486.7 $3,840.9 $4,326.5 $4,884.2 $5,020.8 $5,278.1 ($ millions) Engaging with Patients Workplace Highlights1 Lilly around the world Recordable Injury Rate2 ( 50%) 1.44 1.18 0.92 0.96 1.09 1.10 FOSTERING Environmental (per 100 employees) sustainability Lost-Time Injury Rate ( 50%) 0.62 0.59 0.38 0.41 0.47 0.49 ABOUT THIS REPORT (per 100 employees) Global Reporting Initiative index Motor-Vehicle Collision ( 50%) 11.10 12.06 11.17 10.48 10.263 9.55 Rate (collisions per United Nations Global Compact Index million miles driven) Philanthropy Highlights4 Product Donations $240 $297 $335 $373 $549 $645 ($ millions) Cash Contributions $75 $53 $70 $57 $48 $55 ($ millions) Total Contributions $315 $350 $405 $430 $597 $700 ($ millions) 1 2013 goal, 2007 baseline for all three workplace-related metrics. 2 In previous reports, recordable injury rate was referred to as serious injury rate. 3 The 2011 collision rate was adjusted slightly from our last report to reflect more accurate data collection. 4 Total charitable donations include funding from both Lilly and The Eli Lilly and Company Foundation. PAGE 8 LILLY 2012-13 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Message from the ceo Key Performance Indicators (cont’d) 2012 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY HIGHLIGHTS GOAL 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 About Lilly Environmental Highlights5 Our Approach to Corporate Energy Consumption 12,900,000 11,900,000 11,300,000 11,200,000 10,800,000 10,900,000 Responsibility (million BTUs) • Key Performance Indicators Energy Intensity (million ( 15%)6 594 561 541 521 495 488 BTUs/1,000 square feet) Improving Global Health Greenhouse Gas Emissions 1,840,000 1,760,000 1,670,000 1,630,000 1,570,000 1,580,000 Researching and Developing (Scope 1 and Scope 2) Innovative Medicines (metric tonnes CO2e) Conducting Our Business Ethically Greenhouse Gas Emissions ( 15%)7 84.7 83.4 79.3 75.9 71.8 70.5 and Transparently Intensity (metric tonnes Supporting Strong Workplace CO2e/1,000 square feet) Practices Water Intake (billion liters) ( 5%)8 19.6 17.6 13.2 12.8 13.3 12.4 Engaging with Patients Water Intensity (million 1.05 0.864 0.605 0.555 0.549 0.549 Lilly around the world liters/million $ revenue) FOSTERING Environmental Waste Generation 379,000 387,000 287,000 228,000 242,000 278,000 sustainability (metric tonnes) ABOUT THIS REPORT Waste Generation Intensity 20.3 19.0 13.1 9.88 10.7 12.3 (metric tonnes/million $ Global Reporting Initiative index revenue) United Nations Global Compact Index Waste to Landfill ( 20%)9 32,000 22,300 14,800 15,900 10,900 12,300 (metric tonnes) Reportable Permit43 27 16 11 8 8 Limit Exceedances10 5 Following World Resources Institute guidance, energy use, greenhouse gas emissions (except Scope 3), waste, and water-use data are reported on an adjusted basis accounting for mergers, acquisitions, and divestitures, as appropriate, to ensure comparability, unless stated otherwise. 6 2013 goal, 2007 baseline. 7 2013 goal, 2007 baseline. This goal covers Lilly’s Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions. 8 2013 goal, 2010 baseline. Water intake as used in evaluating our progress toward our water-reduction goal is the total amount of water coming into a facility, including water pumped from bodies of surface water and groundwater, as well as water provided by a utility. It includes water used in processes, utilities, and other ancillary operations, such as irrigation. The term does not include groundwater pumped solely for treatment to satisfy regulatory actions or requirements (e.g., remediation activities where the water is not used for another purpose). Values do not include the water extracted from wells solely for the purpose of lowering the groundwater table(s) to maintain the physical and structural integrity of building foundations. 9 2013 goal, 2010 baseline. Lilly’s former and current waste-to-landfill goals do not include construction and demolition debris, biosolids from wastewater treatment plants, incinerator ash, coal ash if reused for mine reclamation or road base, and mycelia and urea reused for fertilizer. 10 Lilly classifies an event as a reportable permit-limit exceedance if it involves an exceedance of a numeric permit or license limit that must be reported to the regulatory authority. The reporting may be immediate (e.g., within 24 hours) or in a routine compliance report. These exceedances do not necessarily result in harm to people or the environment. PAGE 9 LILLY 2012-13 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT improving Message from the ceo 2012 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY HIGHLIGHTS About Lilly Our Approach to Corporate Responsibility global health improving global health • Providing Access to Medicines and More Pharmaceutical companies such as Lilly have traditionally sold their 30 Addressing Global Health Challenges Researching and Developing products in markets that have reliable infrastructure and the economic means to pay for innovative products. Philanthropic donations have $ MILLION Innovative Medicines helped to further expand access to medicines and health care to a Amount invested through Conducting Our Business Ethically relatively small number of people in low-income countries.11 the Lilly MDR-TB Partnership between 2012 and 2016 and Transparently Supporting Strong Workplace Now, however, governments and global health organizations Practices worldwide are looking for new, sustainable solutions that can Engaging with Patients Lilly around the world expand access to health care, and the pharmaceutical industry has an important role to play. There is a need for greater action—and 49 we believe we can be an important part of the solution. Number of countries where Lilly does not seek patents FOSTERING Environmental sustainability ABOUT THIS REPORT Providing Access to Medicines and More Global Reporting Initiative index United Nations Global Compact Index Around the world, there is a need for greater access to medicines and quality healthcare systems to deliver the meditargets for improving social and economic conditions in the world’s poorest countries by 2015. At Lilly, we have several initiatives 24 MILLION Estimated number of people in cines to people we serve. In addition, there that directly address many of the MDG Sub-Saharan Africa with diabetes is growing recognition of the importance of targets. These include: in 2030—almost double the current underlying environmental factors that conrate—and the highest projected • Eradicating extreme poverty and diabetes growth rate of any region tribute to poor health worldwide, including in the world over the next 20 years. hunger: Our animal health division, malnutrition, a lack of clean drinking Elanco, has committed to ending hunger water, and a lack of adequate sanitation. for 100,000 families or 600,000 individuals A wave of public-private partnerships has 80% globally by 2025 through a partnership with been launched since the United Nations Heifer International.® Learn more in the established the Millennium Development Strengthening Our Communities section Goals (MDGs) in 2000, creating specific Of all non-communicable disease (NCD) deaths occur in lowand middle-income countries 11 The World Bank classifies an economy as low income, middle income, or high income based on the country’s gross national income per capita. data.worldbank.org/about/country-classifications. PAGE 10 LILLY 2012-13 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Message from the ceo • Combating tuberculosis (TB), HIV/ needs, business expertise, and business AIDS, and other diseases: For more opportunity. Lilly and other global phar2012 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY than 10 years, the Lilly MDR-TB Partnermaceutical companies have embraced the HIGHLIGHTS Guiding Principles ship has worked with partners across the shared value approach as we look to expand globe to battle deadly multidrug-resistant access to medicines and health care. Lilly will The complexity of global health challenges About Lilly tuberculosis (MDR-TB). TB, a curable continue to engage in philanthropic support requires collaboration among private compaOur Approach to Corporate disease, continues to kill more than 1 of a variety of important issues. At the same nies, governments, NGOs, donors, academia, Responsibility million people each year, many of them time, we will focus on ways to harness the and providers. That’s why Lilly, along with also suffering from HIV/AIDS. Today, the full range of Lilly’s resources and exper12 other major healthcare companies, signed improving global health Lilly MDR-TB Partnership is focused on tise—human, scientific, and commercial—to on to the Guiding Principles on Access strengthening the capacity of healthhelp contribute long-lasting solutions to to Healthcare during the United Nations • Providing Access to Medicines and More care professionals to identify and treat pressing global health challenges. General Assembly in September 2013. These drug-resistant strains of TB, as well as industry-led principles provide a common Addressing Global Health Challenges In the summer of 2013, Lilly assigned a framework to help shape the cross-sector increasing access to much-needed medicross-functional access team, composed partnerships that will expand access to Researching and Developing cines. Learn more about this program. of representatives from finance, manufacquality healthcare. Innovative Medicines As global health organizations, countries, turing, marketing, and corporate affairs. and companies look at the MDGs, signifiThe team’s charter is to explore sustainConducting Our Business Ethically cant gaps are evident between those goals and Transparently and the reality for many people. Collecable business opportunities for expanding Differential Pricing access to Lilly medicines initially in midSupporting Strong Workplace tively, we are a long way from meeting dle-income countries with the aspiration Lilly advocates for policies that support Practices the public health goals we have all set over time to explore low-middle income differential pricing—i.e., the charging of diffor ourselves. There are many barriers countries and beyond. ferent prices based on a purchaser’s ability Engaging with Patients that currently stand in the way, including to pay. We believe that differential pricing inadequate funding, ineffective healthcan help balance the desire to have affordLilly around the world care delivery systems, lack of awareness Cost of Our Medicines able prices for low-income populations among potential patients of the care that while still rewarding innovation. FOSTERING Environmental Lilly strives to engage with governments is available, and, at times, even the social sustainability throughout the world to offer our products Currently, many countries reference the stigma that still surrounds certain types at sustainable prices that are affordable for price of medicines in other countries as of illness—including TB, HIV/AIDS, and ABOUT THIS REPORT local populations. Yet as overall healtha basis for setting prices for new medieven cancer in some cultures—that can care costs continue to rise, even people cations. This practice limits differential Global Reporting Initiative index prevent people from seeking treatment. with health insurance are paying a higher pricing because a discounted price meant In the summer of 2013, Lilly assigned a portion of costs out of pocket. For the uninto improve access in a lowor a middleUnited Nations Global Compact Index cross-functional access team, composed sured and underinsured, in both developed income country can be referenced by of representatives from finance, manufacand developing markets, we recognize that a high-income country. Entering into turing, marketing, and corporate affairs. the cost of medical treatment, as well as commercial contracts with healthcare The team’s charter is to explore sustainthe cost of prescription medicines, may be administrators can support the increased able business opportunities for expanding an obstacle to getting the care and mediuse of differential pricing, if those contracts access to Lilly medicines initially in midcines patients need. Prices for prescription are private and the discounted price cannot dle-income countries with the aspiration medicines, like other products, can differ be referenced. Lilly also supports efforts over time to explore low-middle income from country to country because of difto decrease the final price of medicine countries and beyond. ferences in currency value and market to patients; such efforts might include A new approach to complex global challenges dynamics—or they may be kept artificially minimizing taxes of all types and limiting is gaining significant traction: a concept known low by government price controls. Pricing markups applied in the supply chain. as “shared value.” Shared value encourages based on ability to pay is one way pharthe creation of sustainable, profitable busimaceutical companies, including Lilly, can ness solutions at the intersection of societal enhance access to medicines. PAGE 11 LILLY 2012-13 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Message from the ceo Countries Where Lilly Does Not Seek Patents 2012 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY HIGHLIGHTS losses without intellectual property protection About Lilly Our Approach to Corporate Responsibility $800M-$1.3B  improving global health Approximate amount pharmaceutical research companies would not be able to • Providing Access to Medicines and More recoup that they invest, on average, to discover and develop each new drug. Addressing Global Health Challenges Researching and Developing developing countries to provide effecInnovative Medicines tive patent protection for pharmaceutical products and thus stimulate economic Conducting Our Business Ethically and Transparently growth (through increased investment and Afghanistan // Angola // Bangladesh // Benin // Bhutan // Burkina Faso // Burundi // Cambodia // retention of local talent) and ensure the Central African Republic // Chad // Comoros // Democratic Republic of the Congo // Djibouti // Supporting Strong Workplace Equatorial Guinea // Eritrea // Ethiopia // Gambia // Guinea // Guinea-Bissau // Haiti // Kiribati // availability of innovative medicines. Practices Laos // Lesotho // Liberia // Madagascar // Malawi // Maldives // Mali // Mauritania // Mozambique // Lilly does not seek patents in Least Myanmar // Nepal // Niger // Rwanda // Samoa // São Tomé and Príncipe // Senegal // Sierra Leone // Engaging with Patients Solomon Islands // Somalia // Sudan // Tanzania // Timor-Leste // Togo // Tuvalu // Uganda // Developed Countries (LDCs), as defined Vanuatu // Yemen // Zambia by the United Nations. In these countries, Lilly around the world no Lilly patent can be said to prevent the manufacture or import of any Lilly FOSTERING Environmental Intellectual Property Protection expensive clinical trials that are then submitdrug. Nonetheless, access to medicines sustainability ted to regulatory authorities for approval of continues to be a major issue in these We believe that providing financial incenbiopharmaceutical products. countries, demonstrating that factors ABOUT THIS REPORT tives for pharmaceutical innovation is in other than intellectual property contribute everyone’s interest. Our ability to improve Without intellectual property protection, much more significantly to the problem of Global Reporting Initiative index outcomes for individual patients depends on pharmaceutical research companies would access to medicines. our discovering, developing, and commernot be able to recoup the approximately $800 United Nations Global Compact Index million to $1.3 billion that they invest, on cializing innovative pharmaceutical products. The profits we generate enable us to invest average, to discover and develop each new Product Donations in the research necessary to bring the next drug. Lack of strong intellectual property rights would have a chilling effect on the In the United States, we offer our medicines generation of new medicines to the market. industry’s ability to bring new lifesaving for free through our established patientLilly supports strong and effective protection medicines to patients around the world. assistance programs, which we call Lilly of intellectual property rights, including patTruAssist (www.lillytruassist.com). Learn ent protection for pharmaceutical products. Intellectual Property more about Lilly’s product donations in The biopharmaceutical industry is dependent in Developing Countries the Strengthening Communities section upon this protection, which grants the invenLilly recognizes the significant contributions of this report. tor of a new product an exclusive, yet limited, that U.S. trade laws and the World Trade period to develop and market the product. Organization (WTO) rules have made in the Lilly also supports a strong and effective area of intellectual property protection. We period of protection for the data generated by support their continued use to encourage PAGE 12 LILLY 2012-13 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Message from the ceo Addressing Global Health Challenges In September 2011, Lilly launched the Lilly NCD Partnership, with a commitment of 2012 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY $30 million over five years to work with HIGHLIGHTS In 2011, the Lilly Global Health Innovation Campaign was world-class health organizations in Brazil, About Lilly launched to improve the health of people living in impoverished India, Mexico, and South Africa—countries that suffer a large burden of NCDs. communities that frequently lack adequate health systems. Focused on diabetes, the Partnership Our Approach to Corporate Responsibility The campaign is an umbrella that encompasses two of Lilly’s aims to develop effective, efficient, and current signature programs: our long-standing program treating sustainable programs that can meaningimproving global health fully improve health outcomes for those in multidrug-resistant tuberculosis, the Lilly MDR-TB Partnership, need. The lessons from these programs Providing Access to Medicines and More and the Lilly NCD Partnership, a multipronged effort focused will have positive impacts on the immedi• Addressing Global Health Challenges on non-communicable diseases. Both programs aim to advance ate populations where the programs are in operation and will inform areas of substandiagnosis, treatment, and care capabilities, and, therefore, tial improvement at the country and global Researching and Developing Innovative Medicines improve outcomes through partnerships with leading global level. Moreover, the lessons can be used to and national health organizations. inform the company’s policies and engageConducting Our Business Ethically ment both in Least Developed Countries (as and Transparently defined by the United Nations) and in other emerging markets that Lilly serves. Supporting Strong Workplace The Lilly Global Health Innovation Campaign The Lilly NCD Partnership Practices employs a novel approach that immediately In 2013, we integrated our Connecting benefits healthcare providers and patients The burden of non-communicable diseases Hearts Abroad volunteer program with the Engaging with Patients and, in parallel, evaluates program outcomes. (NCDs)—such as diabetes, heart disease, Lilly NCD Partnership, offering employThe campaign’s operational framework and cancer—is a complex public health ees the ability to travel to South Africa to Lilly around the world threat. In lowand middle-income counvolunteer at one of our program partner includes three components: tries, this impact is exacerbated by the fact sites. Employees, including medical docFOSTERING Environmental • Research: Pilot comprehensive modthat healthcare systems have generally tors, pharmacists, diabetes educators, and sustainability els of health care that address critical been oriented toward infectious diseases— communications specialists, were carefully gaps in health systems and are based on even as the prevalence of NCDs is rising selected and vetted based on skills needed ABOUT THIS REPORT sophisticated research and detailed data rapidly. Yet many patients are diagnosed at the site. Read more in the Strengthening Global Reporting Initiative index collection, late, or not at all, or are not treated accordCommunities section of this report. • Report: Work with well-respected parting to standard protocols, which increases United Nations Global Compact Index the risk of late-stage complications and Read more about the work of the Lilly NCD ners to share data and lessons learned, imposes further drains on scarce resources. Partnership in Mexico. and • Advocate: Inform key stakeholders about program findings and encourage the adoption of proven, cost-effective solutions. Learn more about Lilly’s global health programs at www.LillyGlobalHealth.com. PAGE 13 LILLY 2012-13 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Message from the ceo Lilly NCD Partnership Summit Curing TB requires a regimen of several medicines that must be taken daily for six 2012 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY In July 2013, Lilly hosted the first NCD Focus on South Africa: to nine months. But many patients fail to HIGHLIGHTS Partnership Summit in Johannesburg, complete the treatment, take poor-quality Lilly’s NCD Partners: South Africa. The event brought our global medicines, or receive medication that is About Lilly Project HOPE and Donald NCD partners together to highlight their incorrectly prescribed, which can lead to Woods Foundation respective programs, share experiences, Our Approach to Corporate multidrug-resistant tuberculosis (MDR-TB). and learn from one another. Topics included Responsibility MDR-TB is even more virulent than TB, is Lilly is working alongside two partners in patient-care models, effective partnering, also highly contagious, and requires an even South Africa to combat the rising tide of technology integration, measurement, and improving global health more complex treatment regimen lasting up diabetes. evaluation. Our partners in Africa hosted to two years. Providing Access to Medicines and More site visits to their field operations, and local Project HOPE journalists participated in roundtable disThe WHO projects that as many as 2 million Lilly is helping to operate the HOPE • Addressing Global Health Challenges cussions to learn about our efforts. people worldwide may develop drug-resistant Centre, a five-year, community-based strains of TB by 2025—despite widespread Researching and Developing project that will improve the lives of efforts to achieve the 2015 Millennium DevelInnovative Medicines people at risk from or already living Stopping the Scourge of opment Goals related to TB. The fact is that with diabetes. The HOPE Centre will Conducting Our Business Ethically address gaps in the continuum of care in Multidrug-Resistant every time a patient is ineffectively treated for TB, drug resistance can take hold, dramatiand Transparently poor communities and model innovative Tuberculosis cally increasing the threat to patient health approaches to bring services to community Supporting Strong Workplace members in a sustainable, cost-effective TB, often thought of as a disease of the and the cost of controlling the disease. Practices way. The first two years will be based in past, continues to plague the world’s most The Lilly MDR-TB Partnership Zandspruit, a township on the western vulnerable populations. A preventable and Engaging with Patients outskirts of Johannesburg. curable disease, it is also one of the most Since 2003, the Lilly MDR-TB Partnership has contagious, and, when untreated, underworked with leading global organizations to Lilly around the world Donald Woods Foundation treated, or undiagnosed, spreads rapidly. battle MDR-TB. After two successful phases This partnership aims to improve the Especially deadly to those with weakened of work (2003–2011), amounting to $140 FOSTERING Environmental quality of health care and patient safety in sustainability immune systems, TB claims the lives of million in investments from our company, some of the poorest parts of South Africa. approximately 1.3 million people each year, funding of the partnership was assumed by Our work focuses on expanding access ABOUT THIS REPORT according to the World Health Organization The Eli Lilly and Company Foundation with a to medicines, as well as other treatment and care in remote, rural communities of (WHO). And 98 percent of those deaths occur final additional commitment of $30 milGlobal Reporting Initiative index the Eastern Cape. We are collaborating to in the developing world, according to the U.S. lion. The third and final phase extends from develop pioneering approaches, methAgency for International Development. 2012 through 2016 and focuses on two areas United Nations Global Compact Index critical for more effective MDR-TB treatodologies, and tools to ensure optimal According to the TB Alliance for TB Drug outcomes in our key priority areas: HIV/ ment: training healthcare providers, including Development, TB will rob the world’s poorAIDS, TB, diabetes, hypertension, and nurses, doctors and pharmacists, as well est countries of an estimated $1 trillion to maternal and child health. We also aim as informal caregivers, such as community $3 trillion over the next 10 years. Particularly to significantly reduce the costs of health volunteers, and improving the supply of and troubling, 75 percent of TB cases strike services and patient access, with a goal of access to safe, effective, and high-quality between the ages of 15 and 54, when replicating successes in other locations. MDR-TB drugs. Activities will be conducted people are typically at their most producprimarily in four high-burden MDR-TB countive economically. In fact, The World Bank tries: China, India, Russia, and South Africa. estimates that loss of productivity attributable to TB accounts for 4 to 7 percent of the gross domestic product of some countries. PAGE 14 LILLY 2012-13 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Message from the ceo 2012 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY The Challenges of Identifying HIGHLIGHTS MDs Diagnosis and Treating MDR-TB About Lilly There are many challenges associated with Our Approach to Corporate NURSES the treatment of MDR-TB, which does not Responsibility respond well to treatment with so-called Diagnosis “first-line medicines”—those used to treat improving global health TB. One challenge is lack of access to the PHARMACISTS full regimen of medications required. In Providing Access to Medicines and More Symptomatic/Care seeking fact, at the end of 2010, less than 16 percent of estimated MDR-TB patients globally re• Addressing Global Health Challenges Diagnosis ceived the medicines they needed. Because Treatment and support the availability of internationally quality-asResearching and Developing Innovative Medicines sured medicines to treat MDR-TB is limited, a key component of the Lilly MDR-TB COMMUNITY HEALTH WORKERS/ Partnership was to transfer the technology Conducting Our Business Ethically and Transparently PATIENT SUPPORTERS and know-how for manufacturing its two Symptomatic/Care seeking MDR-TB medications, capreomycin and cySupporting Strong Workplace Diagnosis closerine, to manufacturers in high-burden Practices countries. Lilly now works to improve access Treatment and support to all quality-assured medications available Engaging with Patients to treat MDR-TB by coordinating a coalition of global health partners, including the Bill Lilly around the world PATIENT JOURNEY and Melinda Gates Foundation, The Global Fund, WHO, and others to improve the FOSTERING Environmental Symptomatic/ Treatment Diagnosis supply of MDR-TB medicines. sustainability Care seeking and support Effective medicines are only part of the ABOUT THIS REPORT picture. MDR-TB is complex to diagnose in the first place. And the medicines used Global Reporting Initiative index Healthcare Provider Training to treat MDR-TB often have serious side effects, which makes staying on the treatPhysicians, nurses, pharmacists, and community health workers can all play a role in the screening, United Nations Global Compact Index diagnosis, and treatment of TB and MDR-TB patients. Oftentimes, a patient’s first step is seeking help ment regimen for up to 24 months even for symptoms from community health workers or pharmacists. Starting with accurate diagnosis—which more difficult. In countries where healthcan occur at many levels in the healthcare system, including from nurses and doctors in community care workers are scarce, significant human health clinics—treatment and support are critical. This is why the Lilly MDR-TB Partnership addresses resources are required to oversee treatment education and support at every level of patient identification and care. and compliance. Patients who must be hospitalized for the initial treatment period can increase the risk of MDR-TB transmission to staff and patients, particularly those already compromised by HIV/AIDS. There is an urgent need for additional training of healthcare workers to prevent the transmission of TB within healthcare facilities, as well as training those workers in diagnosis, treatment, and the monitoring of drug resistance. PAGE 15 LILLY 2012-13 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Message from the ceo 2012 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY HIGHLIGHTS The Lilly MDR-TB Partnership The Lilly MDR-TB Partnership Investment Achievements About Lilly The Lilly MDR-TB Partnership has trained The Lilly TB Drug Our Approach to Corporate Responsibility Discovery Initiative $30M Between 2012-2016 doctors and nurses to recognize, treat, monitor, and prevent the spread of MDR-TB. The battle against TB requires new, fasterThese healthcare professionals have raised improving global health Invested to train healthcare providers and to awareness to reduce the stigma of the acting medicines at affordable prices. The Lilly improve access to critical medicines in India, TB Drug Discovery Initiative, launched in June disease, promoted prevention, researched Providing Access to Medicines and More China, Russia, and South Africa. drugs to improve treatment, and advocated 2007, is a nonprofit public-private partnership focused on accelerating early-stage TB drug for some of the world’s most vulnerable • Addressing Global Health Challenges populations. Lilly has also worked with discovery. The initiative is run from a research Researching and Developing manufacturers in high-burden countries to facility in Seattle, Washington, and operates Innovative Medicines increase access to much-needed MDR-TB in partnership with the Infectious Disease Research Institute, Merck and Company, and Transfer of Medicines to medicines. Conducting Our Business Ethically the National Institute of Allergy and InfecRussian Partner Program highlights include the following: and Transparently tious Diseases. It brings together global • A total commitment of $170 million from An original goal of the Lilly MDR-TB Supporting Strong Workplace specialists for the systematic exploration 2003–2016, Lilly’s largest philanthropic effort Partnership was to establish pharmaceutical Practices of vast, private molecular libraries. To to date, which included donations of more manufacturing of much-needed drugs in date, Lilly has committed more than $20 countries suffering under a high burden of than 5.1 million vials of capreomycin and 5 Engaging with Patients million to this initiative. the disease. To achieve this objective, Lilly million capsules of cycloserine; Lilly also participates in other global worked with manufacturers in affected • Transfer of manufacturing technology for Lilly around the world countries to establish locally run, sustainable health initiatives, including the following: two Lilly medicines to seven companies in supplies of product, which could be used high-burden countries to increase the availFOSTERING Environmental • The Gates CEO Roundtable, where Bill to treat those in need for years to come. In ability of MDR-TB medicines; sustainability Gates and CEOs from innovative pharAugust 2013, this work hit a major milestone. • Investment of $20 million to discover new maceutical companies work together Our Russian technology transfer partner, ABOUT THIS REPORT tuberculosis medicines; in effective ways to provide solutions to Biocom, received approval from the WHO Global Reporting Initiative index global health issues of common interfor the manufacture of cycloserine, a Lilly • Training of more than 100,000 healthcare est, such as regulatory harmonization, medicine used to treat MDR-TB. With this professionals to better recognize, diagnose, United Nations Global Compact Index research and development, and access approval, achieved four years after submitand treat MDR-TB; and affordability of medications. ting its product dossier, Biocom is the first • Distribution of guidelines and toolkits to and only Russian pharmaceutical company more than 45,000 hospitals and clinics; and • The TB Drug Accelerator (TBDA), an to be approved by the WHO for any product initiative aided by $20 million from the and to meet WHO Good Manufacturing • Reaching millions of people in high-risk Gates Foundation, is a groundbreaking Practice (GMP) standards. communities through public awareness partnership between pharmaceutical campaigns. companies and academic researchers that aims to speed the discovery of essential new treatments for tuberculosis (TB). The long-term goal of the TBDA is to create a TB drug regimen that reduces TB treatment time from six months to one month. PAGE 16 LILLY 2012-13 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT RESEARCHING AND DEVELOPING Message from the ceo 2012 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY HIGHLIGHTS About Lilly Our Approach to Corporate Responsibility INNOVATIVE MEDICINES Improving Global Health Researching and Developing Innovative Medicines Lilly exists to discover and develop innovative medicines that 24 help people live longer, healthier, and more active lives. We • The Drug Development Process recognize that the best pharmaceutical products emerge from The Lilly Bioethics Program: Promoting Responsible Human Research an atmosphere of optimism and teamwork, and we seek out company-owned sites on top talent and external partnerships to help us achieve our five continents Animal Care and Use research and development (R&D) goals. This section discusses Diversity in Clinical Trials our current clinical development pipeline, our investments to Lilly Global Quality Organization spur the faster creation of effective medicines, and the new Conducting Our Business Ethically and Transparently ways we are funding R&D costs. We also discuss the important role that bioethics plays at Lilly, our commitment to upholding 100 Contract manufacturing Supporting Strong Workplace the highest ethical standards in our quality and manufacturorganizations in 45 countries Practices ing operations, the importance of diverse and effective clinical Engaging with Patients trials, our thoughtful and humane approaches to animal care and use, and global patient safety. 150 Lilly around the world FOSTERING Environmental sustainability Lilly’s Clinical Development Pipeline Lilly employees involved in the Lilly Bioethics Network (BEN), a ABOUT THIS REPORT We currently have one of the richest Phase (large) molecules, which are often given by virtual community of individuals who are interested in building III pipelines in Lilly’s history, representing injection. Our interactive pipeline website their knowledge in bioethics Global Reporting Initiative index a variety of Lilly therapeutic areas, includprovides details on each of our potential United Nations Global Compact Index ing diabetes, oncology, neuroscience, and new medicines in clinical development: autoimmunity. We continue to focus on www.Lilly.com/Pipeline. For easy access to developing a complementary mix of chemical clinical trial information, visit: www.clinical(small) molecules, taken orally, and biologics trials.gov and search using the tag “LY.” 362 the number of Lilly-sponsored diverse clinical trial sites PAGE 17 LILLY 2012-13 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Message from the ceo The Drug Development Process 2012 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY HIGHLIGHTS The research-based pharmaceutical industry is uniquely able to discover, develop, and produce lifesaving medicines for patients who need them. Yet pharmaceutical research and development is a complex and lengthy process. To demonstrate the safety and efficacy of a drug, by About Lilly law it must be tested in the laboratory, in living cells and organisms, in laboratory animals, and finally, in humans. After the drug-discovery process produces a promising lead, that compound is still a long way from being ready for testing in human subjects. Here is how the Our Approach to Corporate process unfolds in the United States.12 Responsibility 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 Improving Global Health Researching and Developing DRUG PRECLINICAL CLINICAL CLINICAL CLINICAL REGULATORY POSTInnovative Medicines DISCOVERY TRIALS TRIALS: TRIALS: TRIALS: REVIEW MARKETING PHASE I PHASE II PHASE III • The Drug Development Process The Lilly Bioethics Program: Promoting Responsible Human Research YEARS YEARS YEARS YEARS YEARS YEARS YEARS Animal Care and Use ~4-5 ~1 ~1.5 ~2.5 ~3 ~0.5-2 Indefinite Diversity in Clinical Trials Lilly Global Quality Organization RESULT RESULT RESULT RESULT RESULT RESULT RESULT Conducting Our Business Ethically 5k-10k 250 ~9 ~5 ~1-2 1 Complete NDA SUBMITTED and Transparently IND SUBMITTED additional postcompounds compounds compounds compounds compounds drug approved evaluated evaluated evaluated evaluated evaluated marketing testing Supporting Strong Workplace as required by Practices regulators Engaging with Patients TOTAL COST13 $674MM $150MM $273MM $319MM $314MM $48MM $1.8B Lilly around the world File Investigational New Drug (IND) application File New Drug Application (NDA) with FDA FOSTERING Environmental with U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) sustainability ABOUT THIS REPORT Global Reporting Initiative index United Nations Global Compact Index 12 We have adapted the phase chart from PhRMA and supplemented it with cost data from a recently published article on R&D productivity: Paul S, Mytelka D, Dunwiddie C, et al. How to Improve R&D Productivity: The Pharmaceutical Industry’s Grand Challenge. Nature Reviews Drug Discovery. 2010; available from: doi:10.1038/nrd3078. Accessed October 25, 2011. 13 Figures provided are capitalized, meaning they account for the cost of capital to complete each phase. The $1.8B total estimated cost includes the cost of all projects that fail during the drug discovery and development process. PAGE 18 LILLY 2012-13 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Message from the ceo Focus on Timely Valued higher value, and improved outcomes for individual patients. These goals are at the 2012 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Medicines heart of Lilly’s vision for biopharmaceutical HIGHLIGHTS Lilly’s Commitment At Lilly, we are focused on the quality—not innovation, and are also one of the five qualto Diabetes just the quantity—of our R&D efforts. To ity attributes of our timely valued medicines About Lilly ensure we can bring needed medicines to strategy. To help realize the promise of There is no group of patients with whom Our Approach to Corporate patients worldwide who are waiting, we have tailored therapies, Lilly explores tailorLilly has a longer and deeper history than Responsibility shifted our R&D strategy to deliver what we ing for every single molecule that comes those impacted by diabetes. Lilly was the call “timely valued medicines” to patients. from its labs, using a variety of approaches first company to make insulin commercially Improving Global Health to identify meaningful differences across available, offer human insulin, develop the “Timely” means our medicines reach patient populations. first analog insulin and, working with Amylin, Researching and Developing patients with unmet needs while maintainbring to market the first GLP-1 (glucagon-like Innovative Medicines ing data and patent protection. “Valued” While tailoring makes more sense for some peptide) medication. means our medicines are high quality and therapeutic areas and not others, tailored • The Drug Development Process come with robust, competitive data accepted therapies can significantly increase value More than 90 years after the discovery of for individual patients and healthcare insulin, Lilly is more committed than ever to by healthcare administrators and regulators. The Lilly Bioethics Program: Promoting administrators. When successful, they facilmeeting the needs of people with diabetes. Responsible Human Research We believe consistent application of our timely itate delivery of the right medicine to the In addition to our portfolio of marketed valued medicines strategy will help us return products, we are investing in one of our Animal Care and Use right patient at the right time, and, hopeto sustainable growth post-2014 and beyond. largest diabetes pipelines ever—including fully, result in improved health outcomes. Diversity in Clinical Trials three molecules currently in Phase III clinical For healthcare administrators, tailored therdevelopment. Lilly Global Quality Organization Development Center of apies mean they can be more confident of Diabetes is a significant national public Conducting Our Business Ethically Excellence (DCOE) the value for which they are paying because health problem in China, affecting nearly 90 our studies will be designed to demonstrate million Chinese. The state-of-the-art Lilly and Transparently Lilly’s DCOE uses a variety of tools includthe benefits of a given medicine to a specific China Research and Development Center ing critical chain, advanced analytics, and patient population (e.g., those who possess a (LCRDC) in Shanghai is investigating the Supporting Strong Workplace Practices tailored therapies to move potential new particular gene or biomarker). unique features of diabetes in Asian patients medicines more efficiently through the and identifying novel mechanisms of action, development process. The DCOE helps For patients, tailored therapies can Engaging with Patients which is expected to lead to breakthrough streamline internal operations, guide mean an individualized, patient-specific therapies for people there with diabetes. The Lilly around the world resource allocation, and ensure that all of treatment regimen based upon personal LCRDC is just one significant R&D investour R&D efforts are being directed in the characteristics, such as the following: ment exemplifying Lilly’s commitment to FOSTERING Environmental most efficient manner possible. innovation in diabetes care and improving • Phenotypic characteristics (such as age sustainability outcomes for people with diabetes around the or weight), world. In January 2011, Lilly formed a straABOUT THIS REPORT Tailored Therapies • Established biomarkers (such as HbA1C tegic alliance with Boehringer Ingelheim to levels), and jointly develop and commercialize a portfolio Global Reporting Initiative index Not all medicines affect every individual • More novel markers emerging from of diabetes compounds. in the same way. Individual differences in United Nations Global Compact Index new tools and technologies (such as a person’s biochemistry, as well as other pharmacogenomics, bioimaging, and factors, can determine the ultimate effecbioinformatics). tiveness of a given treatment. Personalized medicine, also known as “tailored therapeutics,” promises to deliver greater precision, PAGE 19 LILLY 2012-13 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Message from the ceo The Lilly Bioethics Program: Promoting and processes are established and applied throughout the company and to contribute 2012 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY HIGHLIGHTS Responsible Human Research to pharmaceutical bioethics through external service, collaborations, and scholarly endeavors. About Lilly The purpose of the Lilly Bioethics Program is to assist employOur Approach to Corporate ees in identifying and addressing bioethics issues related to Part-time efforts include the following: Responsibility Lilly’s research and development (R&D) activities. It is designed • The Bioethics Advisory Committee, a cross-functional committee composed of Improving Global Health to address the increasingly complex ethical challenges in today’s senior leaders from across the company, fast-paced biotechnology environment. In so doing, the program as well as two academic experts in the Researching and Developing Innovative Medicines promotes ethical drug R&D, safeguards the integrity of the scienfield of bioethics who offer guidance on projects and consultations; tific process, and protects patients’ rights and well-being. The Drug Development Process • The Lilly Bioethics Network (BEN), a As the Program grows, it continues to involve bioethics issues. To achieve these goals, virtual community of more than 150 Lilly • The Lilly Bioethics Program: Promoting more people internally in ethics training, with The Lilly Bioethics Program focuses on four employees who are interested in building Responsible Human Research the aim of creating a cohort of “functional core activities: their knowledge in bioethics; Animal Care and Use experts”: a group of employees capable of • The Bioethics Specialist Team, a subgroup • Establishing and articulating company relating ethical thinking and knowledge of the BEN comprising Lilly employees Diversity in Clinical Trials positions on key bioethics issues, back to different functional areas across with specialized knowledge, experience, the company (see information on Bioethics • Consulting with Lilly staff on research ethand skills in bioethics and an ongoLilly Global Quality Organization Leadership Academy). Lilly’s commitment to ics questions, ing commitment both to develop in this Conducting Our Business Ethically bioethics education and training is evidenced • Conducting internal education and training area and to support the Lilly Bioethics and Transparently by an increasing variety of educational offeron bioethics, and Program; ings, including a day devoted to bioethics • Contributing to internal collaborative Supporting Strong Workplace • The Bioethics Leadership Academy lectures and discussion with invited external projects that integrate bioethics into R&D Practices (BELA), an internal, six-month, expeexperts. The Program is also committed operations, as well as external projects riential training program designed to to external engagement, demonstrated by that contribute to the advancement of the Engaging with Patients establish a cohort of Lilly employees with presentations at professional and academic field of bioethics as it relates to pharmadistinct bioethics skills. BELA participants Lilly around the world conferences, posting and communication of ceutical applications. work through a curriculum, participate in bioethics position statements, and serving specified activities, and develop a project FOSTERING Environmental on industry, academic, and government comThe bioethics program is structured as an to help them respond to bioethics issues sustainability mittees addressing bioethics issues related independent organizational unit led by a vice related to their functional role in the comto biomedical research. president of bioethics and a senior advisor pany and the pharmaceutical industry. ABOUT THIS REPORT who oversees full-time professional staff as well as several part-time efforts of staff from Global Reporting Initiative index Bioethics Program Organization various functional areas across the company. Lilly’s Approach to Bioethics United Nations Global Compact Index The innovative and multidimensional The full-time staff members have specialized Lilly strives to maintain the highest standards program continues and enhances the work training in bioethics and are responsible for of ethical behavior in all aspects of the combegun in 1999, when Lilly became one of the the program’s development, oversight, and pany’s business, consistent with its brand. first pharmaceutical companies to establish deliverables (comprising the four core activia standing bioethics committee to systemties). The primary goals for the staff are to atically identify, evaluate, and communicate ensure Lilly’s bioethics principles, positions, PAGE 20 LILLY 2012-13 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Message from the ceo Protecting Research Subjects’ Lilly’s Bioethics Framework Summaries of New Bioethics 2012 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Rights in Clinical Trials and Bioethics Positions Position Statements HIGHLIGHTS Lilly’s bioethics framework (see right) is In 2010, to provide researchers with guidCompassionate Use of About Lilly the basis for a single global standard that ing principles and practical tools, Lilly Investigational Medicines Lilly applies to the conduct of clinical trials developed a bioethics framework specifiOur Approach to Corporate worldwide. Our practices are consistent with cally to describe and evaluate the ethics of Occasionally, patients with serious or lifeResponsibility the Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacdeveloping, conducting, analyzing, and threatening diseases or conditions seek turers of America’s Principles on Conduct of disclosing results from studies involving access to promising investigational mediImproving Global Health Clinical Trials, in addition to the applicable human subjects (Bioethics Framework for cines outside of a clinical study setting. This laws and regulations of the country or counHuman Biomedical Research). The frameis called compassionate use, but is also Researching and Developing tries in which a study is conducted. work incorporates company values, ethics known as expanded access, early access, and Innovative Medicines emergency use. Patients who seek compasprinciples from widely recognized global Lilly is a global company serving the medisionate use do so either because standard guidelines, and scholarly literature. The Drug Development Process cal needs of a global population. In choosing treatments have failed or they cannot locations worldwide to conduct clinical trials, The Lilly Bioethics Program employs the biotolerate approved medications, and because • The Lilly Bioethics Program: Promoting Lilly considers the local prevalence of the ethics framework when conducting ethical they are unable to participate in a clinical Responsible Human Research disease under study and the medical research analyses to answer consultation questions study. Because it is unknown during clinical Animal Care and Use capabilities of the candidate institutions. and to develop bioethics positions. development whether an investigational Diversity in Clinical Trials In addition, Lilly works with local ethics Flowing out of the framework, the Lilly medicine is safe and effective, compassioncommittees and/or health authorities, as Bioethics Program has developed bioethics ate use involves unidentified risk and may Lilly Global Quality Organization create a false sense of hope in patients. appropriate, to ensure that conducting the positions on relevant and emerging topics proposed research in each location is scienincluding the following (summarized below): Compassionate use also can negatively Conducting Our Business Ethically tifically and ethically justified. These decisions impact the conduct of ongoing or future cliniand Transparently • Compassionate use of investigational take these factors into consideration: cal studies (due to competing logistics and medicines, resource allocations) and subsequently delay Supporting Strong Workplace • The risks and benefits for research • Continued access to investigational the regulatory approval and broader availPractices participants, medicines, and ability of a new medication. Lilly anticipates Engaging with Patients • The potential for the research to yield • Pediatric clinical development of drugs compassionate use requests for investigaimportant scientific advances, and devices. tional medicines targeted to treat serious Lilly around the world and life-threatening diseases and develops • The relevance of the research to local health The complete list of Lilly’s bioethics position medicine-specific guidelines for when such a FOSTERING Environmental needs, and statements is available for review online. request may be considered. In general, Lilly sustainability • The intent to register the drug in the authorizes a compassionate use program host country. based on the investigational medicine’s ABOUT THIS REPORT In applying these considerations, Lilly places phase of development, benefit-risk profile, Global Reporting Initiative index paramount importance on the safety and wellavailability of alternative treatments, and being of the individual research participants. probability and timing of regulatory approval. United Nations Global Compact Index PAGE 21 LILLY 2012-13 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Message from the ceo Continued Access to Pediatric Clinical Development Investigational Medicines of Drugs and Devices 2012 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY HIGHLIGHTS An investigational medicine, that is, a medicine Lilly ensures special protections are in place being studied for human use, is usually not whenever children are involved in research. About Lilly locally commercially available at the concluWhen it can be reasonably anticipated that sion of a clinical study and, as a result, clinical a given Lilly medicine or device may be Our Approach to Corporate study patients who are benefiting from an frequently prescribed for a specific pediResponsibility investigational medicine are not able to access atric illness or condition, Lilly believes it is the treatment. Under certain conditions (listed appropriate—and may even be necessary—to Improving Global Health here), Lilly may offer continued access, also investigate such uses via clinical studies. Researching and Developing known as “post-trial access,” to an investigaImportant considerations in Lilly’s planning Innovative Medicines tional medicine after a patient’s participation for any potential pediatric medicine or device in a clinical study has ended. Any offer of conare the seriousness of the illness or condiThe Drug Development Process tinued access to an investigational medicine tion that would be treated, the unmet medical will be made in the context of a clinical study need that exists, and the availability of existing • The Lilly Bioethics Program: Promoting setting in accordance with local regulations. approved pediatric treatments. Ultimately, Responsible Human Research Lilly will determine the extent and timing Animal Care and Use of any pediatric clinical studies based upon discussions with regulatory agencies. Diversity in Clinical Trials Lilly Global Quality Organization Conducting Our Business Ethically and Transparently Supporting Strong Workplace Practices Engaging with Patients Lilly around the world FOSTERING Environmental sustainability ABOUT THIS REPORT Global Reporting Initiative index United Nations Global Compact Index PAGE 22 LILLY 2012-13 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Message from the ceo ANIMAL CARE AND USE 2012 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY HIGHLIGHTS Animal studies remain a vital component of the discovery and Lilly Animal Care and Use Principles About Lilly development of innovative medicines for both humans and animals. Regulations that govern the approval of our products When other acceptable alternatives do Our Approach to Corporate not exist, Lilly researchers conduct in vivo Responsibility for human and animal use dictate that we use animals for testing studies on animals to assess the potential when alternatives do not meet regulatory standards. At Lilly, efficacy and safety of compounds for Improving Global Health human use. When conducting such live we believe we have a moral, ethical, and scientific responsibilanimal assessments, all personnel must Researching and Developing ity to ensure the welfare of animals used for any purpose by our comply with our global policy on animal Innovative Medicines company. Our policy and standards regarding the use of animals care and use. They must also adhere to the following principles: The Drug Development Process are based upon the U.S. Government Principles for the Utilization • Studies must be designed and conducted The Lilly Bioethics Program: Promoting and Care of Vertebrate Animals Used in Testing, Research and with due consideration for the relevance Responsible Human Research Training. of the study to human or animal health, and to the advancement of scientific • Animal Care and Use All Lilly-owned animal testing facilities are require Lilly researchers and contractors knowledge. Diversity in Clinical Trials accredited by the Association for the Assessto adhere to the Lilly Animal Care and Use • Animals must be provided with living ment and Accreditation of Laboratory Animal Principles, even if these principles are more conditions that are appropriate for the Lilly Global Quality Organization Care (AAALAC). AAALAC provides indepenstringent than applicable local laws. Lilly species and that will contribute to their Conducting Our Business Ethically dent review and confirmation of appropriate also encourages animal research and animal health and well-being. and Transparently animal care and use. Lilly also uses the supply companies globally to obtain and • Personnel who care for animals or who services of third-party facilities located at maintain accreditation from the AAALAC. design or conduct animal studies must Supporting Strong Workplace various sites around the world. These third be appropriately qualified and trained. Practices parties include contract research organizations or third-party operations that conduct The Lilly 3Rs Initiative • Animals must be treated humanely to Engaging with Patients research on behalf of Lilly, supply animals to eliminate or minimize pain and distress. As part of our ongoing commitment to Lilly, or supply feedstuffs to animals at Lilly. ethical research, in 2012, senior leadership • Lilly has adopted “3 Rs”: replacement of Lilly around the world More than 95 percent of the animals used in created the Lilly 3Rs Initiative, a more formal animals in studies whenever scientifipharmaceutical research for Lilly—including articulation of the animal care and use cally valid and acceptable alternatives FOSTERING Environmental sustainability at third-party facilities—are rats and mice. strategy and practice at Lilly. The Initiative exist, reduction of the number of animals benchmarked similar activities among global used, and refinement of procedures to To monitor practices on animal research and minimize distress to the animals. The ABOUT THIS REPORT pharmaceutical companies and set goals welfare, Lilly maintains a global oversight 3Rs will be applied prior to the start of program of all animal testing facilities for Lilly, including increased awareness of Global Reporting Initiative index any study involving animal testing. with which we do business, including visits the 3Rs by encouraging the communicaby trained specialists to conduct welfare tion of strategies for reduction, refinement, • Studies involving animals must be United Nations Global Compact Index designed and conducted in accordance evaluations. Lilly requires all employees and and replacement of animal use within the company; enhanced employee training on with applicable local regulatory guidance. all third parties involved in our research to adhere to all applicable country and local the 3Rs; and the dissemination of 3Rs inforlaws, regulations, and standards regarding mation through a new global database and the care and use of animals. Moreover, we increased internal networking. PAGE 23 LILLY 2012-13 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Message from the ceo In 2013, senior management at Lilly also and technologies capable of dramatically Critical Path Institute, and the Innovative established and directed a new 3Rs Steering enhancing the delivery of timely valued mediMedicines Initiative in Europe, Lilly is help2012 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Committee to accomplish several objectives: cines to patients who are waiting. ing to create much-needed industrywide HIGHLIGHTS standards of practice for things like risk• The creation of an internal 3Rs Award to Our philosophy of external partnership based monitoring, clinical site training, data About Lilly recognize accomplishments with existing models involves custom approaches designed standardization, and other efforts that will techniques or with new research approaches, to leverage external resources, scientific Our Approach to Corporate simplify the drug development process. such as use of tissue-based models, analytic expertise, and development capabilities along Responsibility and computational models, study refinewith Lilly capacity and capability to advance Globally, Lilly partners with governments ments, or environmental enhancements; molecules and technologies that complement to identify solutions to improve access to Improving Global Health • The support of 3Rs research at external and supplement our internal pipeline. medicines in developing and less-developed Researching and Developing organizations in collaboration with the countries. These solutions might include For example, Lilly’s Open Innovation Drug Innovative Medicines National Centre for the 3Rs based out of donations of cash and products for patientDiscovery (OIDD) program is a Web-based the United Kingdom; assistance programs, global humanitarian platform that provides external researchThe Drug Development Process efforts, and other charitable endeavors, as • The establishment of company guidelines ers, who may not have previously worked well as public–private partnerships. In addiThe Lilly Bioethics Program: Promoting for the use of nonhuman primates. Lilly has with us, a free point of early entry into Lilly’s tion to traditional partnerships, we find and Responsible Human Research not used chimpanzees in research since the drug discovery process and, in doing so, may facilitate medical innovations through Lilly late 1980s. Careful consideration is given uncover innovation above and beyond what • Animal Care and Use Ventures and Lilly Asia Ventures. These two when other nonhuman primate species are Lilly researchers are producing in their labs. funds invest in start-up biopharmaceutical Diversity in Clinical Trials used in research, and these new guidelines This innovative concept occurs with very little and medical technology companies via early will address the use of those species. investment on Lilly’s part and has been very Lilly Global Quality Organization expansion-stage investments. successful in terms of the numbers of highquality compounds submitted. Conducting Our Business Ethically Forming Partnerships to Create Increasing the Speed and Transparently Lilly actively participates in more than 50 Global Health Solutions public-private partnerships and consortia of Innovation Supporting Strong Workplace that pursue innovative methods and technoloAt Lilly, we value partnerships. Our history Practices To help us identify the most promising has proven—and our ongoing collaborations gies capable of dramatically enhancing the molecules as soon as possible, Lilly is continue to prove—that by working together, delivery of tailored therapies and improving Engaging with Patients developing and implementing methods to we can discover, develop, and deliver the pharthe quality and efficiency of drug discovery establish “proof-of-concept” (proof that Lilly around the world maceutical therapies that will help people live and development. These types of partnerships a molecule works in the body as intended/ longer, healthier, and more active lives. offer tremendous opportunity for innovation theorized) sooner than ever before. Working FOSTERING Environmental by bringing together the best and brightest Lilly has a long history of creating partnerearlier in the drug development process, we sustainability scientists in academia and industry to solve ship models designed to bring innovation to hope to lower a molecule’s potential attrition critical unanswered questions. ABOUT THIS REPORT patients, starting back more than 90 years rate. Lilly has goals to utilize this methodolago with our collaboration with Frederick An example of this is Lilly’s work with the ogy of establishing early proof-of-concept for Global Reporting Initiative index Banting and Charles Best, two academics at National Institutes of Health (NIH), includat least two-thirds of our pipeline. the University of Toronto with whom we made ing an agreement to utilize Lilly’s phenotypic United Nations Global Compact Index We are using biomarkers to help generate the first commercially available insulin used drug discovery assays to screen NIH’s dataearlier proof-of-concept data in humans to treat patients with diabetes. At that time, base of 3,800 preclinical molecules for their to decrease the odds of late-stage pipeline the only known way to keep these patients potential to be developed into medicines for attrition. We are also employing “adaptive from dying of excess blood sugar was to put patients suffering from a variety of diseases. seamless study designs,” a component of them on a near-starvation diet. Further, by teaming up with other pharmaour DCOE Advanced Analytics hub. GenerToday, Lilly has a diverse set of collaborations ceutical companies, academic colleagues, ally speaking, adaptive study designs aim established that pursue innovative methods and government agencies in partnerships to use the information generated in clinical such as TransCelerate BioPharma, the studies as it emerges, in a blinded fashion, PAGE 24 LILLY 2012-13 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Message from the ceo not simply when the studies have been comLilly’s scientific infrastructure and talent, these future of drug discovery and development pleted. As such, they are a natural attempt scientists may uncover innovation above and as they look to make important contribu2012 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY to be smarter and faster about determining beyond what Lilly researchers are producing in tions to the general scientific community. HIGHLIGHTS who benefits and, just as important, who their labs. The pre-competitive nature of the research does not benefit, from a potential medicine. enables Lilly and academic scientists the About Lilly The platform consists of three components: opportunity to jointly publish their results. Our Approach to Corporate • TargetD2, or target drug discovery, which Responsibility Building the Pipeline of the Future screens submitted molecules for their potenCross-Industry Collaboration: Finding and correctly identifying promistial to interact with known disease targets. TransCelerate BioPharma Initiatives Improving Global Health ing new molecules is a time-consuming and • PD2, or phenotypic drug discovery, which The largest ever initiative of its kind, painstaking task. And yet it is the only way that screens submitted molecules in complex TransCelerate BioPharma Inc. is an indeResearching and Developing pharmaceutical companies, including Lilly, are cellular assays with the goal of identifying pendent non-profit organization formed to Innovative Medicines able to discover the essential building blocks potential new medicines acting by novel identify and solve common drug developThe Drug Development Process for the medicines of tomorrow. For Lilly, and mechanisms or pathways. ment challenges with the end goals of the industry, to remain relevant and competi• The third component screens molecules improving the quality of clinical studies and The Lilly Bioethics Program: Promoting tive, we must find new pathways to innovation. for their potential in the fight against mulbringing new medicines to people we serve Responsible Human Research faster. Founded by major healthcare, pharmatidrug-resistant tuberculosis (MDR-TB) Innovation Starts Here —a form of tuberculosis (TB) —through ceutical and biopharmaceutical companies, • Animal Care and Use Introduced in 2011, “Innovation Starts Here” is The Lilly TB Drug Discovery Initiative. the organization evolved from discussions at Diversity in Clinical Trials Lilly’s global, companywide initiative designed various forums for executive R&D leadership External “Innovation Starts Here” programs to create and sustain a dynamic environment to discuss relevant issues facing the indusLilly Global Quality Organization include the following: to foster innovation and quality science. The try and solutions for addressing common Conducting Our Business Ethically initiative aims to remove barriers to collabo• The Lilly Innovation Fellowship and Transparently ration and promote the best thinking between Award fosters post-doctoral career our people, programs, and partnerships. It development and prepares recipients for Supporting Strong Workplace Dalvir Gill, Ph.D., Chief Executive also supports our broader commitment to careers in the pharmaceutical industry by Practices Officer of TransCelerate “ speeding the delivery of medicines to patients establishing a true industry/academic partand driving sustainable R&D outputs. nership where a post-doctoral fellow and Biopharmaceutical companies often Engaging with Patients academic mentor are paired with a Lilly spend an extraordinary amount of Lilly around the world Open Innovation Drug scientist. Scientists selected for an award effort monitoring clinical trials—data Discovery Platform will receive up to four years of salary and from each patient, for every study, at FOSTERING Environmental benefits as Lilly post-doctoral scientists. In addition to Lilly’s own R&D efforts, we every global site, is reviewed—yet, sustainability For more information, visit Lilly.com/LIFA. continue to invest in ways that supplement our there isn’t much evidence to indicate pipeline through collaboration with external • The Lilly Research Award supports that this level of review is effective at ABOUT THIS REPORT scientists, and the Open Innovation Drug Disresearch collaborations between Lilly identifying systemic errors or subcovery (OIDD) platform is one of the ways we scientists and some of the best scienstantially improving the quality of data Global Reporting Initiative index do this. Lilly’s OIDD platform is unique in that it tists and research institutions worldwide, gathered. Despite this, monitoring United Nations Global Compact Index aims to remove barriers to sustainable innovafocusing on early-stage research, such as approaches have remained unchanged. tion with a novel transactional model between the development of new assays, validaIn this position paper, we have outLilly and external scientists. Launched in 2009, tion of disease targets or biomarkers, and lined a methodology—procedures, OIDD is a Web-based platform that provides improvement of preclinical models. It is a two-way, collaborative program in which algorithms, a toolkit—for risk-based external researchers—who may not have previmonitoring that we believe will be ously worked with Lilly—with a point of entry scientists in academia gain invaluable access to research tools to conduct basic effective and efficient for our member ” into our drug discovery process. By providing research; in turn, Lilly scientists receive companies and others. external investigators with direct access to critical information to help inform the PAGE 25 LILLY 2012-13 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Message from the ceo TransCelerate BioPharma Initiatives 2012 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY When it launched, TransCelerate BioPharma chose to focus on five initiatives related to clinical trial efficiency with shared goals of increased quality, patient safety, HIGHLIGHTS and accelerated development timelines. About Lilly initiative objective benefit Our Approach to Corporate Standardized Approach for High-Quality, Develop a standard framework for • Improvement in data quality and patient safety Responsibility Risk-Based Monitoring targeted, risk-based clinical trial for clinical trials monitoring • Reduction in effort expended on low-value activities Improving Global Health Researching and Developing Shared Investigator Site Portal Establish a single, intuitive interface • Ease of use and harmonized delivery of content and Innovative Medicines for investigators services for investigators • Reduce investigator burden The Drug Development Process • Reduce member company costs The Lilly Bioethics Program: Promoting Shared Site Qualification and Training Establish a single, intuitive interface • Improved quality of clinical sites and accelerated study Responsible Human Research for investigators start-up times • Animal Care and Use Diversity in Clinical Trials Clinical Data Standards—Efficacy (in Accelerate current efforts underway • Increased quality of clinical data and enablement of Lilly Global Quality Organization Partnership with CDISC and CFAST)14 through CDISC to establish efficacy industry end-to-end data flow data standards Conducting Our Business Ethically and Transparently Comparator Drugs for Clinical Trials Establish a supply model to source • Reduce the cost and effort for comparator drug sourcing Supporting Strong Workplace comparator drugs between companies • Reduce the chance of counterfeit drug in study supply chair Practices for use in clinical trials • Share critical data—e.g., stability data Engaging with Patients Lilly around the world FOSTERING Environmental sustainability ABOUT THIS REPORT Global Reporting Initiative index United Nations Global Compact Index 14 CDISC is a global, open, multidisciplinary, nonprofit organization that has established standards to support the acquisition, exchange, submission and archive of clinical research data and metadata. The Coalition for Accelerating Standards and Therapies (CFAST), a joint initiative of CDISC and the Critical Path Institute (C-Path), was launched to accelerate clinical research and medical product development by facilitating the establishment and maintenance of data standards, tools and methods for conducting research in therapeutic areas important to public health. CFAST partners include TransCelerate BioPharma Inc. (TCB), the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA), and the National Cancer Institute – Enterprise Vocabulary Service (NCI-EVS), with participation and input from many other organizations. PAGE 26 LILLY 2012-13 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Message from the ceo Funding Innovation and the prevention of migraine headaches. The worldwide rights to develop the antibody have 2012 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Discovering Value been licensed from Lilly in an innovative colHIGHLIGHTS TransCelerate BioPharma Lilly uses external financing and innovalaboration that leverages Lilly’s capabilities Principles and experience developing the antibody. About Lilly tive business models to supplement, but not The activities of TransCelerate BioPharma replace, our core R&D investment strategy, Arteaus, using a virtual team and collaboratOur Approach to Corporate are built upon a shared set of principles, looking for targeted areas where external ing with Lilly’s Chorus function, will develop Responsibility fostering a spirit of collaboration. funding makes sense to achieve our strategy the antibody through Phase II clinical studies by way of diversity of investment and risk to demonstrate proof-of-concept in migraine PRINCIPLES OF COLLABORATION Improving Global Health reduction. Ultimately, this is good for our prevention. Upon completion of the Phase II • Recognize shared commitment for the business and for the speed with which we can Researching and Developing betterment of the whole study, Lilly will have the option to continue provide treatments to patients that need them. development of the antibody at pre-negoInnovative Medicines • Leverage existing assets and technology tiated terms including milestones and The Capital Funds Portfolio The Drug Development Process • Promote, but don’t insist upon, universal royalties. adoption of solutions Formerly known separately as The Risk and The Lilly Bioethics Program: Promoting Reward-sharing Collaboration and The MirChorus: Lilly’s Virtual Drug • Capitalize on the influence of the industry Responsible Human Research ror Portfolio, The Capital Funds Portfolio is a Development Organization and existing best practices • Animal Care and Use mechanism created by Lilly to reduce the risk Established in 2002, Chorus is a small, that is inherent in our own pipeline by tapping cost-effective, and operationally indepenDiversity in Clinical Trials challenges. Membership is open to all comaccess to external value and funding. Through dent early-phase virtual drug development Lilly Global Quality Organization panies who can contribute to and benefit from The Capital Funds Portfolio, virtual companies organization residing within Lilly’s Global these shared solutions. financed by independent investment funds External Research & Development group. Conducting Our Business Ethically acquire molecules from Lilly or external Chorus specializes in drug development and Transparently TransCelerate launched in September 2012. sources. The virtual companies then deterAt that time, the organization chose to focus from candidate selection to clinical proof mine the scope and manner of execution to of concept. Once clinical proof of concept is Supporting Strong Workplace on five initiatives related to clinical trials, develop early-stage molecules from approxiPractices designed to increase efficiency, reduce costs, achieved, the molecule is offered for sale mately one year before testing in humans to to biopharmaceutical companies, including and enhance patient safety. Charter Members, determine clinical proof-of-concept. If the Engaging with Patients each retaining a permanent seat on the Board Lilly. Molecules for development can origiproof-of-concept studies are positive, the nate from Lilly or from external sources. of Directors, include: AbbVie, AstraZeneca, molecules are offered for sale to biopharmaLilly around the world Boehringer Ingelheim, Bristol-Myers Squibb, ceutical companies, including Lilly. Chorus conducts early-stage development Eli Lilly and Company, GlaxoSmithKline, Johnwork using a virtual model and strives to FOSTERING Environmental son & Johnson, Pfizer, Roche, and Sanofi. In The first major milestone for The Capital Funds deliver robust, high-quality data packsustainability April of 2013, TransCelerate welcomed six new Portfolio was an agreement by an independent ages that enable definitive “go” or “no-go” ABOUT THIS REPORT member companies bringing total memberfund to license the portfolio’s first two invesdecisions. Using this approach, the Chorus ship to 16; they include: Astellas Pharma Inc., tigational medicines (announced in February function has been able to determine whether Global Reporting Initiative index Biogen Idec, Braeburn Pharmaceuticals, EMD 2011). The first is a molecule developed preto advance or terminate a molecule’s develSerono, Inc., Forest Research Institute, and clinically by researchers at a major academic opment about 12 months earlier and at a United Nations Global Compact Index Onyx Pharmaceuticals. institution that is being studied as a potential lower cost than the current industry model. treatment for congestive heart failure; the In June 2013, TransCelerate announced the second molecule was developed by Lilly. first major milestone of its five clinical trials initiatives when the organization released a Another example is a molecule being position paper outlining a methodology for developed by Arteaus Therapeutics, a productrisk-based site monitoring that could sigfocused biotechnology company funded nificantly modernize and streamline the way by Atlas Ventures and OrbiMed Advisors. studies are conducted and monitored. Arteaus is developing a novel approach for PAGE 27 LILLY 2012-13 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Message from the ceo Improving the The project focuses on five key questions about the clinical research volunteers’ 2012 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Clinical Study Experience experiences: Mary Short, RN, MSN, Lilly HIGHLIGHTS principal research scientist, The quality of the medicines we can offer • Why do volunteers enter clinical studies clinical development “ About Lilly to patients depends, in large part, on the and what are their fears and expectations? quality of the clinical study data we generUltimately, a parent’s perspective ate. Clinical trials are central to helping us • What is the relationship between volon the benefit-risk profile of a study Our Approach to Corporate Responsibility learn about the ways molecules interact unteers’ satisfaction with their study determines the successful enrollment with potential patients. Therefore, we are experience and their behaviors within the of children in clinical studies via the Improving Global Health exploring ways to improve the clinical trial study? informed consent process. Accessexperience, including improving recruiting, • What is the volunteers’ experience and ing the parent perspective during the Researching and Developing speeding enrollment, increasing adherence level of satisfaction as they enter, particiInnovative Medicines development process could guide pedito therapies, and increasing the percentage pate in, and complete a Lilly study? atric clinical study design to improve of volunteers who complete studies. • Why do potential enrollees decide not to the child/parent clinical study experiThe Drug Development Process By devoting ourselves to understanding the participate? ence. It also has the potential to help The Lilly Bioethics Program: Promoting experiences of clinical study participants, • Why do enrolled volunteers drop out (and bring medicines to pediatric patients Responsible Human Research we will be better positioned to improve if it is because they are dissatisfied, what more quickly by speeding enrollment, • Animal Care and Use those experiences. In turn, we believe this caused their dissatisfaction)? as well as to increase both adherence will lead to an improvement in the quality of The project’s second stage, being conto therapy and the percentage of chil” Diversity in Clinical Trials the data we obtain from studies. We believe ducted in collaboration with the nonprofit dren who complete studies. Lilly Global Quality Organization study volunteers who have a positive experiCenter for Information & Study on Clinical ence are more likely to adhere to the study Research Participation, will facilitate focus Conducting Our Business Ethically protocol, complete their intended study pargroup discussions with volunteers. Lilly will and Transparently ticipation, and potentially be more positive use these insights to develop and validate Increasing Efficiencies when talking with others about their clinical standardized quantitative measures of the In 2012, Lilly and Merck joined Janssen Supporting Strong Workplace study experience. clinical study volunteer experience across Research & Development LLC on a global Practices several countries and disease areas. cross-pharmaceutical Investigator DataEngaging with Patients bank created to eliminate redundancies Patient-Centric Approaches In a separate program, which also aims to and increase efficiencies in conducting Lilly around the world improve volunteer experiences with clinical Lilly’s “Volunteer/Patient Experience clinical studies. The Investigator Databank research, Lilly has begun to incorporate Measures” program, launched in 2012, is serves as a one-stop repository housing key FOSTERING Environmental the parent perspective in study design designed to help us understand and improve information about investigators and clinisustainability processes for pediatric research. Through the experiences of research volunteers in cal study sites, such as infrastructure and the program, which began in 2013, Lilly our clinical studies. While many existing Good Clinical Practice training records. By ABOUT THIS REPORT employees who are parents of children initiatives examine which studies volunteers storing critical information in one place, the with medical conditions volunteer to be Global Reporting Initiative index choose to participate in, Lilly’s goal is to databank will reduce time, cost and duplicacontacted when a need arises to provide a understand why patients make particular tive efforts, making it easier for companies parent’s perspective on a pediatric study United Nations Global Compact Index choices involving clinical research. to identify appropriate study sites and protocol. The questions cover topics such investigators for future clinical studies. as the frequency and duration of visits, the Investigator sites that have opted-in to data appropriateness of formulations and dosing, sharing will have their relevant information and what potential barriers to participaaccessible to other pharmaceutical compation exist. After piloting the project with nies participating in the collaboration. Lilly parent volunteers, the program will be expanded to include non-employees, such as parents from advocacy groups. PAGE 28 LILLY 2012-13 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Message from the ceo Diversity in Clinical Trials 2012 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Coleman Obasaju, M.D., Ph.D. Senior Medical Director, HIGHLIGHTS The impact of disease isn’t the same for everyone. Research has Lilly Oncology Global Leader, About Lilly shown that health disparities exist between groups of people who Diversity in Clinical Research “ are different from one another. Minorities often suffer a disproporLilly’s goal is to help improve indiOur Approach to Corporate Responsibility tionately higher incidence of certain diseases, such as stroke and vidual patient outcomes. Because diabetes, compared to whites. For example, we know that African medicines don’t work the same for Improving Global Health everyone, we need to understand how Americans are twice as likely to have diabetes and Hispanics are medicines work and the safety profile Researching and Developing 1.7 times more likely to have diabetes than Caucasian Americans.15 in the patients likely to take them. And Innovative Medicines because culture can strongly influence As scientific technology has improved, it has Our Clinical Trial Diversity Strategy The Drug Development Process how patients define health perception, become increasingly clear that there are Lilly has taken a leading role in the industry lifestyle choices, and healthcare-seekdifferences in patients’ responses to mediThe Lilly Bioethics Program: Promoting in enrolling minorities into U.S. clinical trials. ing behaviors, we need to understand cines based on a variety of factors, including Responsible Human Research The strategy, which is part of the company’s relevant cultural differences that genetics, ethnicity, and cultural differences. ” goal to improve health outcomes for individual impact patient outcomes. Animal Care and Use Yet, historically, fewer minority patients have patients, includes the following elements: participated in clinical trials, resulting in more • Diversity in Clinical Trials limited information on a given medicine’s safety • Translating patient materials into Spanish, Lilly Global Quality Organization and efficacy in racially and ethnically diverse • Providing physician-education materials healthcare disparities through ongoing populations. These realities make it critical for that include background information on the community and national outreach. Conducting Our Business Ethically Lilly to help increase the enrollment of minority different needs of distinct patient groups, and Transparently populations in U.S. clinical trials. Since we began our focus in 2008 on • Partnering with advocacy organizations to increasing minority participation in clinical Supporting Strong Workplace We need more diverse representation in raise awareness about health disparities and trials, we have accomplished the following: Practices clinical trials to gain insights for making the need for diversity in clinical trials, and medicines that will be the most effective • Added more than 360 new clinical trial • Actively recruiting investigators to work Engaging with Patients for all people who use them. Lilly aims to sites with minority patient populations of with diverse patient populations. better match the demographic composimore than 25 percent; Lilly around the world We’re also looking at how cultural beliefs tion of clinical test groups with the disease • Developed education materials to raise prevalence rate in the general population. impact everything from diet to attitudes awareness of clinical trials in partnership FOSTERING Environmental Our clinical diversity strategy is designed about health and healthcare-seeking with the National Medical Associasustainability to help account for the patient differences behavior. We want to know how different tion (NMA), National Hispanic Medical ABOUT THIS REPORT that may affect clinical outcomes. We feel populations interact with the healthcare Association (NHMA), American Medical this strategy will help us better understand delivery system and with doctors, and we Association (AMA), and Education NetGlobal Reporting Initiative index the efficacy, side-effect profiles, and risks want to know how they adhere to doctors’ work to Advance Cancer Clinical Trials in minority groups, which are the fastestprescription orders—anything that can help (ENACCT); and United Nations Global Compact Index growing segment of the U.S. population. us to understand what influences their • Presented to groups such as NHMA, health. The inclusion of diversity also is NMA, AMA Commission to End Health essential in our extensive health educaCare Disparities, and American Association initiatives globally. We’re focused on tion for Cancer Research on the benefits ensuring multicultural groups have access to physicians, practices, and patients in to healthcare information to decrease participating in clinical trials. 15 Diabetes Data/Statistics. The Office of Minority Health. Available at minorityhealth.hhs.gov/templates/browse.aspx?lvl=3&lvlid=62. Accessed September 30, 2103. PAGE 29 LILLY 2012-13 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Message from the ceo 2012 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY HIGHLIGHTS Training Minority Clinical Trial Investigators Study: Stepping Up Efforts Improves Minority EnrollAbout Lilly In 2013, Lilly and The Center for Drug Development and Clinical Trials at the Roswell Park Cancer Institute in Buffalo, New York, announced a first for the pharmaceutical industry—a ment in Clinical Trials Our Approach to Corporate partnership to train minority clinical trial investigators. There are approximately 10,400 Lilly conducted a study to find ways to increase Responsibility oncologists in the United States, but approximately 1 to 2 percent are African American and enrollment of diverse populations in clinical approximately 2 to 3 percent are Hispanic. The goal of the new initiative is to train 75 to 150 trials and to make trials more accessible in Improving Global Health minority oncologists in the conduct of clinical trials. minority communities. Released during the Because medicines don’t work the same for everyone, it is important to understand the safety American Association for Cancer Research Researching and Developing profile in patients likely to take them. Coleman Obasaju, M.D., Ph.D., senior medical director, Lilly annual meeting in 2011, the study assessed the Innovative Medicines Oncology and global leader of Diversity in Clinical Research, is heading up the effort for Lilly. By impact of ethnicity on the second-line treattraining more oncology minority investigators, Dr. Obasaju and his team aim to reach even more ment of non-small cell lung cancer. When Lilly The Drug Development Process populations. For his work, Dr. Obasaju has been awarded the prestigious Scroll of Merit by the started the observational study, only 19 percent The Lilly Bioethics Program: Promoting National Medical Association for increasing minority participation in clinical trials. of participants came from minority populations. Responsible Human Research The partnership will include a three-day clinical research workshop, “Reducing Cancer Disparities To boost the proportion of underserved minorThrough the Training of a Diverse Workforce,” conducted for minority physicians across the ity participants, the company made several Animal Care and Use enhancements, including the following: country. Workshops, which will begin in the spring of 2014, will run through 2016. • Diversity in Clinical Trials Specific workshop goals include the following: • Selecting new trial sites that were likely to include more than 50 percent minority patient Lilly Global Quality Organization • Enhancing clinical research in minority and underserved populations by developing a cadre of populations, well-trained minority investigators; Conducting Our Business Ethically • Giving patients information about assistance and Transparently • Educating participants about the principles of good clinical trial design and providing the necessary programs that would help them secure tools required to conduct trials that are relevant to minorities and under-represented populations; treatments, Supporting Strong Workplace • Guiding participants to identify various challenges of clinical research particularly in minority and Practices • Making on-site visits to trial sites to identify underserved populations, and providing advice and education on how to overcome these challenges; and address existing barriers, Engaging with Patients • Providing ongoing mentorship to young minority investigators through career-long relationships • Translating materials into Spanish, with workshop faculty; and Lilly around the world • Sponsoring multiple advisory boards, and • Reducing cancer health disparities through increased clinical research targeting minority and underserved populations. • Conducting a survey of 241 clinical trial invesFOSTERING Environmental tigators and coordinators to assess the impact sustainability of protocol design on minority participation. ABOUT THIS REPORT The Result: Minority participation increased, with 43 Global Reporting Initiative index percent of the remaining enrollees representing multicultural populations. United Nations Global Compact Index “While the study fell short of its planned patient accrual, with only 434 of 1,000 patients enrolled, it proved that minority participation in clinical trials can increase dramatically with targeted interventions,” said Coleman Obasaju, M.D., Ph.D., senior medical director, Lilly Oncology. “We will apply these learnings to future trials right from the start.” PAGE 30 LILLY 2012-13 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Message from the ceo Diversity in Lilly-Sponsored Clinical Trials in North America (2013 Sites) 2012 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY HIGHLIGHTS 82 52 About Lilly Our Approach to Corporate Responsibility Sites in the West Sites in the Northeast Improving Global Health Researching and Developing Innovative Medicines The Drug Development Process 45 Sites in the Midwest 119 Sites in the Southeast 34 2 The Lilly Bioethics Program: Promoting Responsible Human Research Animal Care and Use • Diversity in Clinical Trials Sites in the Southwest Sites in Canada 22 6 Lilly Global Quality Organization Conducting Our Business Ethically and Transparently Sites in Puerto Rico Sites in Alaska and Hawaii Supporting Strong Workplace Practices In 2008, we set a goal that every study conducted with Engaging with Patients more than 25 clinical trial sites must select at least two sites meeting the diversity criteria. At that time, our focus Lilly around the world was on increasing the pool of new investigators as well as encouraging the selection of sites that treated diverse FOSTERING Environmental populations. A diverse site means the patient populasustainability tion is greater than 25 percent non-Caucasian. Over the ABOUT THIS REPORT years, Lilly has standardized and improved our efforts to identify, track, and select diverse sites. Global Reporting Initiative index United Nations Global Compact Index PAGE 31 LILLY 2012-13 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Message from the ceo LILLY GLOBAL QUALITY ORGANIZATION manages the Lilly Quality System, providing the foundational quality requirements for pro2012 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY cesses throughout the product development HIGHLIGHTS Lilly’s global quality team is an independent organization within cycle. An integrated structure of standards, About Lilly Lilly, comprising more than 2,400 individuals, including scientists, business processes, organizational controls, and management controls, the Lilly Quality pharmacists, and other technical quality professionals. The team is System is designed to assure that high-quality Our Approach to Corporate Responsibility involved in the entire lifecycle of the molecules we develop, working medicine and information get to every patient, across all phases of drug development. The team’s goal is to provide every time. The system harmonizes quality Improving Global Health approaches, as needed, among internal and effective guidance and quality oversight, collaborating with colexternal (contract) manufacturers of Lilly Researching and Developing leagues in research and development and manufacturing, to assure medicines, and provides the overall quality Innovative Medicines regulatory and Lilly’s quality standards and controls are followed. direction across the company. The Drug Development Process To ensure we are able to meet these stanbetween Lilly and our customers. Every day, dards, Lilly’s quality organization provides The Lilly Bioethics Program: Promoting Lilly Quality: Putting Patients at on-site support as well as conducts an annual Responsible Human Research we work to make sound decisions consistent the Center of Everything We Do with current regulations, science, and the best risk-based audit plan to oversee both internal Animal Care and Use interests of patients. Our goal is to always Lilly and external partner operations. Audit Lilly is known for superior quality—in our results provide us with the knowledge we Diversity in Clinical Trials clinical trials, our products, and the informacarefully listen to patients and customers, and to respond through continuous improvement. need to continue to make improvements to tion we provide to our customers. Producing our quality controls and systems. • Lilly Global Quality Organization quality medicines is our chief responsibilTo meet the expectation of quality that is Conducting Our Business Ethically ity, and it is what protects the bond of trust Lilly’s hallmark, our quality team updates and and Transparently Supporting Strong Workplace Practices Engaging with Patients Lilly around the world FOSTERING Environmental design deliver monitor sustainability Clinical Development Safety and Efficacy Data Safety ABOUT THIS REPORT Product Development Manufacturing and Distribution Product Complaints Global Reporting Initiative index Market Research Product Information Patient Experience United Nations Global Compact Index PAGE 32 LILLY 2012-13 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Message from the ceo Lilly Global Manufacturing We believe that focusing intently on both Risk Education safety and quality leads to improved per2012 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Nearly 8,500 individuals—about 25 percent of formance and productivity. To maintain When a regulatory agency approves a mediHIGHLIGHTS our employee base—compose Lilly’s global cine, it has concluded that, for the overall continuous improvement, global manumanufacturing organization. The group facturing invests in the people, processes, public, the medication’s benefits outweigh About Lilly operates 24 company-owned sites on five its risks for the conditions outlined in the technology, and facilities needed to ensure continents and manages relationships with that Lilly and Elanco products provide the product label. Still, accurate and up-to-date Our Approach to Corporate Responsibility about 100 contract manufacturing organizaquality people expect. The organization safety information is critical for healthcare tions in 45 countries. Global manufacturing’s constantly measures performance and proproviders and patients to best decide how Improving Global Health mission is to ensure a continuous supply of ductivity against its own stringent standards and for whom a medication should be used. the safe, high-quality medicines for which the and best manufacturing practices. We also Lilly’s role in risk management centers on Researching and Developing Lilly brand is known. use the Six Sigma process-improvement helping healthcare providers make informed Innovative Medicines system, originally developed by Motorola, to decisions about how and when a medicine The organization works across Lilly’s business pinpoint areas for ongoing improvement. should be used, how to monitor the patient for The Drug Development Process units to help deliver on company objectives potential adverse events, and how to comand optimize value through a commitment The Lilly Bioethics Program: Promoting municate to the patient about proper use of to scientific excellence, quality, cost effecGlobal Patient Safety Responsible Human Research the medication. The Patient Safety section tiveness, and integrity. All told, our global of Lilly’s website is available to educate key manufacturing function makes, packages, Lilly’s global patient safety organization is a Animal Care and Use external stakeholders about the role the and distributes about 4,500 variations of our team of more than 300 individuals, including pharmaceutical industry, the FDA, physicians, Diversity in Clinical Trials products (including different sizes, quantiphysicians, pharmacists, nurses, and other and patients play in ensuring medicines are ties, and label languages) for diverse markets drug-safety professionals. This group leads • Lilly Global Quality Organization safe and effective. around the world—60 percent on the pharmathe company’s efforts to report adverse Conducting Our Business Ethically ceutical side of the business and 40 percent events and continuously monitor the safety and Transparently for Elanco, our animal health division. of Lilly’s products through their entire life cycle, including the identification of changes Supporting Strong Workplace in the benefit/risk balance. Practices Engaging with Patients Lilly around the world FOSTERING Environmental sustainability ABOUT THIS REPORT Global Reporting Initiative index United Nations Global Compact Index PAGE 33 LILLY 2012-13 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Conducting Our Business Message from the ceo 2012 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY HIGHLIGHTS About Lilly Our Approach to Corporate Responsibility Ethically and Transparently Improving Global Health Researching and Developing Innovative Medicines Acting with Integrity Conducting Our Business Ethically For more than 137 years, the people of Lilly have approached our 100% and Transparently company’s business with a deep sense of responsibility to those • Acting With Integrity we serve—patients, physicians and other healthcare providers, The Importance of Stakeholder Engagement shareholders, suppliers, business partners, our workforce, and Percentage of Lilly employees trained in ethical Advancing Public Policy the communities in which we operate. Our actions are grounded in business practices Managing Our Supply Chain our core company values of integrity, excellence, and respect for Tackling the Threat of Counterfeit Medicines people. These values are not simply platitudes; they are infused Supporting Strong Workplace into the Lilly culture and guide all that we do. Practices At Lilly, how we do business is as important Ethics, Compliance, 1899 as what we do. We strive to be a leader in Engaging with Patients corporate responsibility. We demonstrate and Governance Lilly around the world our values through responsible business Our commitment to ethics and compliance practices that reflect our commitments to is born of our commitment to integrity. Our Year the Lilly Code FOSTERING Environmental strong governance principles; transparency; policies, our Code of Business Conduct was established sustainability patient, customer, and employee privacy; (which we call The Red Book), our compliethical product promotion; and stakeholder ance management systems, and our training ABOUT THIS REPORT engagement. Our participation in the public programs reinforce ethical behavior. policy process also demonstrates our values Global Reporting Initiative index As a global leader in the development, and affects how we do business. This section of the report describes our efforts in, and manufacturing, and sale of pharmaceutical United Nations Global Compact Index approaches to, these areas in greater detail. products, we have implemented—and we 86,000 It also highlights our work around ethical continue to refine and improve—programs supply chain management. designed to promote ethical conduct and instill a culture of integrity. We train all of our employees in ethical business practices Number of Lilly and have systems in place to detect potential suppliers in 2012 violations of the law and company policies. PAGE 34 LILLY 2012-13 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Message from the ceo We have invested significant resources The Red Book is designed to provide in our ethics and compliance programs, foundational guiding principles to help 2012 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY among them programs that focus on privacy, our employees navigate an increasingly HIGHLIGHTS The Lilly Code anti-corruption, and appropriate product complex global business environment. promotion. The elements of each program The Lilly Code, established in 1899 and About Lilly • Policies, standards, procedures, include training and communications illustrated in this 1932 version of the Code, and related materials. The inforOur Approach to Corporate designed to prevent potential issues from served as the company’s first mission statement and code of conduct. The Code mation summarized in The Red Book is Responsibility arising, as well as reporting, auditing, and established three areas of focus that endure amplified by policies, standards, and monitoring to detect potential compliance to this day. procedures accessible to employees on Improving Global Health gaps. We also have a robust investigation the company’s intranet. These documents process and corrective and preventive action Researching and Developing govern Lilly’s actions with respect to plans to address issues that are identified. Innovative Medicines specific areas, including anti-corruption, Ethics and Compliance privacy, product promotion, safety, mediConducting Our Business Ethically Program Oversight cal research, communications, securities and Transparently trading, record keeping, international Responsibility for ethics and compliance transactions, ethical interactions with • Acting With Integrity at Lilly starts at the very top and cascades external parties, interactions with governto all levels of the organization. Our board ment and public officials, payments, grants The Importance of Stakeholder Engagement of directors’ public policy and compliance and donations, meetings with healthcare Advancing Public Policy committee, consisting of five independent providers, gifts, product samples, and director members, exercises direct overmany other topics. We also have functional Managing Our Supply Chain sight of Lilly’s global ethics and compliance policies, standards, and procedures that Tackling the Threat of Counterfeit Medicines program. The board’s audit committee has apply specifically to particular areas of our direct oversight of financial matters and business. Supporting Strong Workplace some compliance-related audit matters. Practices Reporting, Monitoring, and Auditing Our chief executive officer routinely sets Engaging with Patients “the tone at the top” by speaking directly To detect possible compliance violations, to employees about ethics and compliance we maintain an internal disclosure system Lilly around the world issues through his blog, through audio and Code of Conduct, Policies, that includes a mechanism for anonymous video messages, and through global town Standards, and Procedures reporting. We also review business actions FOSTERING Environmental hall meetings. Our ethics and compliance programs include through a system of monitoring and audits. sustainability policies, standards, and procedures. We The global ethics and compliance organi• Internal Reporting. Lilly employees communicate our key compliance-related ABOUT THIS REPORT zation is charged with providing support are required to report to the company expectations through the following vehicles: for and assessment of compliance with any known or suspected violations of the Global Reporting Initiative index global company policies that apply cross• THe Red Book. We regularly update law, The Red Book, company policies, or functionally. The organization is headed by and disseminate our Code of Business official orders or decrees applicable to our United Nations Global Compact Index the senior vice president, enterprise risk Conduct, The Red Book. Available in 23 business. Employees are also encouraged management and chief ethics and complilanguages, this document emphasizes to report any other ethical concerns or ance officer, who reports to the CEO and the company’s values and the importance issues. Our toll-free Ethics and Complihas direct access to the board of directors’ of ethical decision-making, summarizes ance Hotline is staffed by an independent public policy and compliance committee. key principles from global company firm, 24 hours a day, seven days a week. policies, and provides examples for Due to differences in local law, local employees to practice applying these reporting processes can vary. principles to their decisions and actions. PAGE 35 LILLY 2012-13 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Message from the ceo • Monitoring. Lilly maintains an ethics • Employees receive targeted ethics and • Prospective recipients of grants and donaand compliance monitoring program. Its compliance training related to their spetions; and 2012 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY purpose is to evaluate whether the followcific job responsibilities. HIGHLIGHTS • Prospective business development ing have occurred: • New employees in the ethics and compartners. About Lilly -Compliance policies and procedures pliance group participate in a training have been implemented, and education session that focuses on Our Approach to Corporate -Employees have been trained on these understanding and implementing the elePrivacy Responsibility ments of an effective compliance program policies and procedures, and At Lilly, we are committed to complying with globally. Training continues on a periodic Improving Global Health -Management is providing sufficient privacy laws in all parts of the world and and as-needed basis. oversight of business processes and to acting ethically in our privacy practices. Researching and Developing • Our leaders communicate regularly with We work hard to meet our objectives of related results to support compliance Innovative Medicines employees to reinforce that they all must operating with transparency and honoring with company policies, standards, and conduct company business in an ethical the privacy of all of those with whom we government laws and regulations. Conducting Our Business Ethically and compliant manner, making decisions interact. We have a comprehensive global and Transparently The program has been standardized to and taking actions in line with the comprivacy program, including a global privacy include a global monitoring strategy, a pany’s values of integrity, excellence, and office and a chief privacy officer, designed • Acting With Integrity respect for people. risk assessment and monitoring plan with to protect the privacy rights of patients, The Importance of Stakeholder Engagement standard tools, and a process for reportInvestigations and Corrective Actions consumers, healthcare professionals, our ing metrics to business leaders and key workforce, medical research subjects, and Advancing Public Policy We take all reports of known or suspected others. As a part of this global program, we company stakeholders. violations of company policies, standards, and have adopted robust privacy policies. These Managing Our Supply Chain • Corporate auditing. Our internal procedures seriously, and we appropriately policies govern the collection of personal Tackling the Threat of Counterfeit Medicines auditing function, corporate audit services investigate all claims of potential wrongdoinformation necessary to our business (CAS), conducts both financial and noning that are brought to our attention. We seek operations and innovation. Our goal is to Supporting Strong Workplace financial audits of all Lilly affiliates globally to address inappropriate conduct as early as ensure that we always deliver on the promPractices to evaluate compliance with various compossible and to prevent future recurrences. ises we make to individuals whose personal pany policies and procedures. CAS audits To accomplish this, a five-stage investigation information we collect and use—that no Engaging with Patients include reviews of our anti-corruption proprocess is in place globally to conduct timely, data subject is ever surprised by the ways in gram and our policies that govern ethical thorough, and professional investigations. All which we have handled their personal inforLilly around the world interactions. Other groups at Lilly routinely investigators are trained to understand and mation. To do this, we have implemented FOSTERING Environmental audit additional regulated functions (e.g., follow this process and to meet local procereasonable technical, physical, and adminsustainability manufacturing, environment, and safety), dural and privacy requirements. istrative safeguards to protect both personal as described elsewhere in this report. and sensitive information from unlawful use ABOUT THIS REPORT Anti-Corruption Due Diligence and unauthorized disclosure, and we conduct Training and Communications regular monitoring and auditing. For more Global Reporting Initiative index Lilly uses anti-corruption due diligence We believe training is a necessary part of proprocesses to assess the appropriateness of information on our privacy policies, see United Nations Global Compact Index moting ethical behavior because all employees interactions with certain external parties, www.lilly.com/Pages/privacy.aspx. play a role in the success of our ethics and comincluding the following: pliance program. The company’s commitment to training and communication is visible through • Healthcare providers whom Lilly pays for many of our activities, including the following: services, including clinical trial research, or to whom Lilly provides other items of • Each year, all Lilly employees (and certain value, such as educational opportunities; company contractors) must complete training on The Red Book and certify that • External parties whom Lilly may authorize they have received, read, understand, and to interact with government officials on will abide by its requirements. the company’s behalf; PAGE 36 LILLY 2012-13 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Message from the ceo Transparency at Lilly These experiences have helped Lilly prepare to meet new obligations under the U.S. 2012 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Lilly is a leader in transparency, and experi“OPEN PAYMENTS” regulations (impleHIGHLIGHTS ence has taught us that transparency U.S. Foreign Corrupt menting the U.S. Sunshine Act) and are also regarding business practices that involve preparing Lilly to meet similar obligations Practices Act Investigation About Lilly financial payments to physicians helps to under the European Federation of Pharmabuild trust with the public and other stakeIn August 2003, we received notice that the Our Approach to Corporate ceutical Industries and Associations (EFPIA) staff of the U.S. Securities and Exchange holders. A look through the transparency transparency initiative. Responsibility Commission (SEC) was conducting an inveslens at our business practices allowed us to Lilly also dialogues directly with healthcare tigation into the compliance by Lilly’s Polish Improving Global Health confirm that collaboration and partnership providers and others about transparency subsidiary with the U.S. Foreign Corrupt between the industry and healthcare profesquestions through its Physician Payment Practices Act (FCPA). Subsequently, we were Researching and Developing sionals are necessary to further innovation. notified that the SEC had expanded its invesInnovative Medicines In addition, we believe that fair compensamailbox: payment_usmail-physician@lilly. tigation to other countries and that the U.S. tion is due to healthcare professionals for com Department of Justice was conducting a parConducting Our Business Ethically services rendered in the drug development allel investigation. In December 2012, we anand Transparently process, for medical education, or to support product promotion and commercialization. Marketing Practices nounced that we had reached an agreement with the SEC to settle its investigation. The • Acting With Integrity However, we understand that these relaOur commitments to ethical business settlement relates to certain activities of Lilly The Importance of Stakeholder Engagement tionships may be misconstrued if they are practices are reflected in how we market our subsidiaries in Brazil, China, Poland, and viewed as secretive. Transparency can also products. We introduce a medicine to the Russia from 1994 through 2009. Without Advancing Public Policy challenge us to view our business practices market only if we believe it addresses unmet admitting or denying the allegations, we Managing Our Supply Chain through the lens of external stakeholders. By patient needs. Once a product is approved for consented to pay a civil settlement amount listening and responding to stakeholders’ conuse, we communicate its benefits and risks, of $29.4 million and agreed to have an Tackling the Threat of Counterfeit Medicines cerns, we strive to continuously improve our market it in compliance with company policies independent compliance consultant conduct transparency and the way we do business. and applicable legal requirements, and monia 60-day review of our internal controls and Supporting Strong Workplace compliance program related to the FCPA. tor results for safety concerns. Practices As a result, we have taken a number of steps to provide information on how we interact Providing trusted, timely, and accurate inforEngaging with Patients with key partners in the pursuit of advancemation about our products is a vital part of ments in medicine. Lilly first began voluntarily our engagement with customers. We commurequirements; in some jurisdictions, they are Lilly around the world disclosing information to the public in 2004 nicate product information to our customers also submitted to regulatory authorities. FOSTERING Environmental when we published results from all of our in several ways. These include the following: clinical trials—even unfavorable ones. In We are committed to following leading trade sustainability • Direct interaction between our sales repan effort to increase transparency, we then association codes of conduct regarding resentatives and prescribers, and account appropriate sales and marketing practices ABOUT THIS REPORT began, in 2007, to disclose funding provided in managers and public and private health and interactions with healthcare professionthe U.S. in the form of educational grants and Global Reporting Initiative index care administrators; als. These include international, regional, charitable contributions. Also, as one of the requirements of its 2009 Corporate Integrity • Information provided to patients and and country-specific codes such as the United Nations Global Compact Index Agreement, Lilly has been required to disclose physicians through package labels and International Federation of Pharmaceutical payments, reimbursed expenses, and all inserts; and Manufacturers & Associations (IFPMA) (for transfers of value to U.S.-based physicians on • Product websites and direct-to-consumer emerging markets), the European Fedthe Physician Payment Registry (visit the Lilly communications in some markets (see to eration of Pharmaceutical Industries and Physician Payment Registry website on www. the right). Associations (EFPIA) (for Europe), and the lilly.com). In addition, Lilly publicly reports Pharmaceutical Research and ManufacturAll communications about our products are its financial support to patient organizations ers of America (PhRMA) code (for the United reviewed and approved internally (before based in Europe and our company’s U.S. politiStates) (see www.phrma.org/code-on-interuse) for compliance with applicable legal cal contributions. actions-with-healthcare-professionals). PAGE 37 LILLY 2012-13 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Message from the ceo Direct-to-Consumer Communications 2012 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY HIGHLIGHTS Given the increasingly complex healthAddressing Parents’ U.S. Corporate Integrity care system, patients are seeking more Advertising Concerns Agreement About Lilly information about diseases and treatments, asking questions, and evaluating Since October 2010, we have participated In January 2009, as part of the resolution of Our Approach to Corporate their options before making choices. As a in an initiative in the United States with a government investigation related to our Responsibility company responsible for developing new, the Parents Television Council (PTC) U.S. marketing and promotional practices innovative medicines, we are committed to to alert parents to broadcast television with respect to Zyprexa®, we entered into a Improving Global Health programs that will contain advertisements Corporate Integrity Agreement with the U.S. providing communications that are truthfor erectile dysfunction drugs. Lilly sends Department of Health and Human Services Researching and Developing ful, accurate, and balanced. We believe that to the PTC weekly broadcast schedules Office of the Inspector General, which Innovative Medicines direct-to-consumer (DTC) disease-state of Cialis® advertisements. The PTC pubrequires us to maintain our compliance communications—which are legal in the lishes advertising schedules for erectile program and to undertake a set of defined Conducting Our Business Ethically United States and permitted on a limited dysfunction drugs on the PTC’s website corporate integrity obligations for five and Transparently basis in some other countries—help to here: w2.parentstv.org/Main/Toolkit/ years. The agreement also provides for an raise awareness of diseases and conditions Ed_Sched.aspx. independent third-party review organiza• Acting With Integrity that are often undiagnosed, untreated, or tion to assess and report annually on the The Importance of Stakeholder Engagement undertreated. effectiveness of the company’s ethics and For similar reasons, we engage in DTC compliance program. This information is Advancing Public Policy used, along with other information, to build advertising in the United States, where we enhancements into our ethics and compliManaging Our Supply Chain adhere to PhRMA’s Guiding Principles on ance program. Direct to Consumer Advertisements about Tackling the Threat of Counterfeit Medicines Prescription Medicines and additional interSupporting Strong Workplace nal Lilly principles on DTC communications. Practices Engaging with Patients Lilly around the world FOSTERING Environmental sustainability ABOUT THIS REPORT Global Reporting Initiative index United Nations Global Compact Index PAGE 38 LILLY 2012-13 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Message from the ceo The Importance of Stakeholder 2012 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY HIGHLIGHTS Engagement Lilly France Convenes Patients’ Association Forum About Lilly At Lilly, our engagement with a wide range of stakeholder groups provides a basis for developing innovative medicines and enhances Lilly France recently convened its first-ever Our Approach to Corporate Patients’ Associations Forum, a full-day Responsibility our collective ability to improve patient outcomes, both of which conference with representatives from 23 are important to our business. patient advocacy groups that advocate for Improving Global Health patients with a wide range of conditions, Participating in dialogue and partnerships We follow our company principles and including Alzheimer’s disease, diabetes, and Researching and Developing with groups beyond our own company industry codes when interacting with psoriasis. The meeting included several Innovative Medicines workshops and roundtable discussions allows us to understand different viewthird-party patient and consumer advocacy points, explain our positions, and address groups. Our principles are built upon the about the challenges that the protocols Conducting Our Business Ethically governing clinical trials pose to patients and Transparently differences when they arise. We approach concepts of compliance with legal requirethese discussions through several departments, open and honest communications, and how they might be overcome so that ments at Lilly: public policy; government transparency, and a diversity of funding more patients are encouraged to participate Acting With Integrity affairs; advocacy; health, safety, and recipients. in such trials. For example, the advocates • The Importance of Stakeholder Engagement identified the need to provide more inforenvironment; and communications. This We seek to establish collaborative partnermation to patients before, during, and at the Advancing Public Policy Corporate Responsibility report and our ships that achieve the following: end of the clinical trial process. The Lilly related website are also part of that stakeFrance medical team built the program Managing Our Supply Chain holder dialogue. • Engage stakeholders on matters involvin consultation with a board of 10 patient Tackling the Threat of Counterfeit Medicines ing public policy, improving patient access advocacy groups constituted specifically This section of the report describes our to treatment options, and supporting for this occasion, along with the help of the engagement with advocacy organizations Supporting Strong Workplace market-oriented solutions to the healthcommunications, regulatory, and clinical and provides examples of our stakeholder Practices care issues we all face; operations teams. groups and engagement channels. • Build awareness about various disEngaging with Patients ease states, treatment options, and the Lilly around the world Engaging with Patient and importance of adherence to treatment Consumer Advocacy Organizations recommendations; FOSTERING Environmental • Provide educational information, tools, LillyPad sustainability We interact with advocacy organizations to and resources; address global healthcare challenges and to • Improve medical standards of care and Our LillyPad blog provides a dialogue with ABOUT THIS REPORT help shape the healthcare environment in ways foster productive communication between the public on matters that are of mutual inthat support patients. We believe that our role terest to us and to those following our indusGlobal Reporting Initiative index within this environment is discovering and patients and their healthcare providers; try. (See lillypad.lilly.com/) The blog, which developing breakthrough medicines, as well as and includes posts from a variety of professionals United Nations Global Compact Index providing information about these medicines • Serve varied populations and provide across Lilly, focuses on public policy issues and the diseases they treat to healthcare proeducational materials that are culturally such as health and wellness, innovation, and fessionals, patients, and their caregivers. appropriate and that respect the diversity job creation. It also describes our corporate of patients and caregivers. responsibility initiatives, advocacy efforts, Lilly values the independence of external and the work that our employees do every organizations, and we recognize that an day to make the world a healthier place in advocacy group’s scientific or educational which to live. Visitors may add comments to agenda, perspectives, and legal obligations contribute to the discussion. may differ from our own. PAGE 39 LILLY 2012-13 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Message from the ceo Who Are Our Stakeholders? 2012 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Stakeholder Groups and Examples of Engagement Channels HIGHLIGHTS Patients Employees 16 Investors About Lilly • Healthcare provider discussions • Live “global town hall” meetings • Daily interactions through our investor Our Approach to Corporate • Educational materials and programs • Intranet social collaboration/networking relations’ function Responsibility tools, including CEO blog • Industry investor conferences • Product package inserts and medication guides • Patient advocacy groups • Employee resource groups • Meetings in Indianapolis and major global cities Improving Global Health • Patient support and assistance programs • Employee surveys • Quarterly earnings communications Researching and Developing • Online product resources • Electronic newsletters • Annual meeting of shareholders Innovative Medicines • Hotline for ethics, compliance, and privacy • Annual report and other financial disclosures • The Lilly Answers Center telephone line questions/concerns • Periodic investment community update meetings Conducting Our Business Ethically • Direct-to-consumer advertising and Transparently HealthCare Professionals Government and Regulatory Organizations Suppliers Acting With Integrity • Online medical information resources • Policy education materials • Green procurement program • The Importance of Stakeholder Engagement • Disease-state educational programs • Published policy research • Product Stewardship Standard Advancing Public Policy • Advisory boards • Responses to written requests for information • Supplier self-assessments and qualifications Managing Our Supply Chain • Sales-force interactions • Oral and written testimony • Supplier audits that Lilly performs • Direct-mail communications • Written comments on proposed regulations • Supplier risk-assessment process Tackling the Threat of Counterfeit Medicines • The Lilly Answers Center telephone line • Policy discussions • Policy advocacy conversations with vendors Supporting Strong Workplace • Medication guides and package inserts • Advisory boards Practices • Online registries • Meetings and conferences Non-Governmental Organizations • Publications (manuscripts, posters, and abstracts) • Communication of studies Engaging with Patients • Partnerships to support patients and families • Medical letters • Lobbying activities • Partnerships to raise awareness about Lilly around the world • Patient-support programs • Educational briefings certain diseases • Lilly-sponsored symposia and scientific • Direct legislator and policy-maker engagement FOSTERING Environmental • Advisory board participation exchange meetings sustainability • Participation in annual conferences/ • Medical and commercial booths at congresses exhibitions ABOUT THIS REPORT • Interactions with Lilly physicians, scientists, • Company communications and medical liaisons • Memberships Global Reporting Initiative index • Contracting for clinical trial investigation work • Lilly-sponsored mobile apps that provide United Nations Global Compact Index physicians with easy-to-access research and clinical trial information Our business partners, including those involved in research, development, commercial, and manufacturing alliances, are also important Community Members Public and Private Healthcare Administrators stakeholders. Our office of alliance management performs about 15 “Voice of Alliance™” • Employee service on boards and committees • Account-manager interactions surveys per year of more than 2,000 responof local organizations • Disease-state educational programs dents, asking both our business partners and • Participation in local volunteer opportunities the Lilly employees involved in those partner• The Lilly Answers Center telephone line ships how the collaborations could be improved. • Employee-directed philanthropy • Online medical information resources • Advisory boards 16 Approximately 38,088 employees as of June 30, 2013. PAGE 40 LILLY 2012-13 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Message from the ceo In alignment with our corporate vision of “Improved Outcomes for Individual 2012 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY The Institute of Medicine defines health literacy as: Patients,” Lilly believes that clear health HIGHLIGHTS “ communication is a vital component of the degree to which individuals have the the healthcare delivery system in which About Lilly capacity to obtain, process, and underpharmaceutical companies play an imporOur Approach to Corporate stand basic health information and tant role. Our health education department Responsibility services needed to make appropriate has made a strong push in recent years to ” health decisions. improve healthcare communications and to Improving Global Health better connect with patients in ways that are health literacy pilot programs in progress both meaningful and actionable. to improve the way we communicate with Researching and Developing patients. One pilot program is evaluatIt’s not about oversimplifying our patient Innovative Medicines Improving Patient Outcomes resources; it’s about communicating in plain ing the informed consent documents that Through Health Literacy are required of individuals to enroll in our Conducting Our Business Ethically “living room” language so ordinary people clinical trials. Another pilot is focusing on and Transparently can understand medical information and the technical response documents used by Health literacy—or the ability to read, play a more active role in making appropriActing With Integrity agents in The Lilly Answers Center to more understand, and act on health information— ate decisions about their health. effectively respond to consumer ques• The Importance of Stakeholder Engagement is vital to achieving the best possible We believe we can play a role by helping to tions. A third pilot project originating in the healthcare results for each individual patient. address some of the gaps in healthcare comglobal patient safety division at Lilly aims to Advancing Public Policy It means being able to read an appointment munication. One way we have begun to do this improve readability of key product-related Managing Our Supply Chain card, follow a healthcare provider’s instrucis by partnering with nationally recognized documents intended for patients. tions, use a medical device, or understand health literacy experts to train employees and Tackling the Threat of Counterfeit Medicines medication instructions. Health literacy is As a result of work like this, Lilly was invited to help us assess, test, and implement new, not necessarily related to education level or to join the Institute of Medicine’s RoundSupporting Strong Workplace clear communication standards for the materigeneral reading ability. table on Health Literacy in 2013. Lilly is Practices als and resources that we share with patients. currently one of just three pharmaceutical According to the National Assessment of In 2012, our efforts received national reccompanies on the Roundtable, which brings Engaging with Patients Adult Literacy, two in five American adults ognition from the Institute for Healthcare together leaders from academia, industry, have difficulty processing the healthcare Advancement, which awarded Lilly its government, foundations and associations, Lilly around the world information they need to make appropriate Published Materials Award for outstandand representatives of patient and conFOSTERING Environmental health decisions. The American Medical ing achievements in health literacy for two sumer groups that have an interest and role sustainability Association reports that the most commonly educational pieces: Eating to Feel Your Best in improving health literacy. affected patients—low income individuals, and Being Active to Feel Your Best and their ABOUT THIS REPORT the elderly, people with limited educaBy participating on the Roundtable, we have Spanish counterparts, Comer para Sentirse lo tion, ethnic minorities, immigrants, and an opportunity to make a difference on the Mejor Posible and Estar Activo para Sentirse Global Reporting Initiative index individuals for whom English is a second national level and to directly support the lo Mejor Posible. The two brochures address language—have more medication errors, National Action Plan to Improve Health some of the building blocks of good health: the United Nations Global Compact Index hospitalizations, and higher levels of illness Literacy as outlined by the U.S. Department importance of making healthy food choices and than those with greater health literacy. of Health and Human Services. staying active. The health literacy problem is a crisis of We look forward to reporting on these Health literacy initiatives have also understanding medical information rather efforts and other health literacy initiatives expanded to other areas within Lilly. For than simply being able to access information. in the future. example, as of mid-2013, we have several PAGE 41 LILLY 2012-13 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Message from the ceo 2012 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY HIGHLIGHTS Expanding Our Diabetes Improving Health Through Engagement with Faith-Based Groups Outreach About Lilly Lilly has long recognized that churches and given out close to 1 million brochures. At Lilly, expanding our definition of diverother faith-based groups are powerful allies Individual churches within the Church of God Our Approach to Corporate sity to include people with a wide range of for improving health. We work with several in Christ have also become more engaged in Responsibility healthcare, social, and situational needs religious communities to engage stakeholders. keeping their congregations healthy. Many makes sense to us. Both in the United Improving Global Health Our ongoing relationship with the Church of of the churches now run diabetes-screening States and globally, we are expanding God in Christ, which has 6 million members, programs. Some have revamped the menus in our outreach and education for people Researching and Developing most of them African American, has achieved their church kitchens to create healthier meals. with diabetes who fast during the Muslim Innovative Medicines some excellent results. Several years ago, we And some have applied for grants through holiday of Ramadan. started working with the Church’s leaders First Lady Michelle Obama’s “Let’s Move!” Conducting Our Business Ethically Up to 1.5 billion people worldwide practice to distribute educational materials focused program. These churches are truly investing and Transparently the Muslim faith. The number of people mostly on healthy and active lifestyle choices. in the well-being of their members, and we with diabetes is growing at an alarming rate The leaders have asked many times for more are glad that Lilly has played a small role in Acting With Integrity in many areas with large Muslim populacopies of our brochures, and we have now their success. tions. Fasting during the holy month of • The Importance of Stakeholder Engagement Ramadan is an obligation for healthy adult Advancing Public Policy Muslims, and some experts suggest that up to 50 million people with diabetes worldManaging Our Supply Chain wide also observe the Ramadan fast. Community Conversations Tackling the Threat of Counterfeit Medicines For many people with diabetes, skipping or reducing meals can quickly result in serious Lilly is committed to helping improve healthy The initial results of the pilot program for Supporting Strong Workplace complications. Since we recognize that outcomes for people with chronic health Alzheimer’s disease have been encouraging. Practices many Muslims with diabetes wish to stay conditions. In the United States, one of our Stakeholders representing public health clinics, healthy while they fast, we are providing initiatives is Community Conversations, which emergency rooms, senior housing units, and Engaging with Patients Ramadan-focused educational materials. pulls together a variety of stakeholders in local law enforcement agencies have discussed new communities to identify and develop solutions approaches to help meet the needs of people Lilly around the world In the United States, we are developing to the systems of care that may impact patients and families affected by the disease. structured education tools to share with and their families. Lilly has worked alongside FOSTERING Environmental healthcare professionals and religious The program was originally developed to interested stakeholders to carry out Community sustainability leaders in five cities with large Muslim address a range of issues related to mental Conversations based on agendas that are driven populations. Globally, we’re providing health care. The Community Conversations by local needs and priorities. ABOUT THIS REPORT information on fasting and diabetes program in mental health has resulted in through a tool called Conversation Maps™. Community Conversations provides a broad better collaboration between law enforcement Global Reporting Initiative index These are visual “road maps” that facilitate spectrum of relevant stakeholders an opporagencies and the mental health profession group discussions so people with diabetunity to meet, hear from a technical expert, and patient advocacy organizations, better United Nations Global Compact Index tes can get more involved in managing discuss information, and create an action plan. integration of community resources and their disease. The new Ramadan-focused The program can lead to new partnerships, training programs for providers, and a Conversation Maps, which were developed engage new and existing partners on critiplatform for ongoing knowledge sharing and with the International Diabetes Federation, cal issues, advance priorities, and build links problem solving. were made available in more than 20 and connections to important resources. For By serving as a catalyst and a connector, Lilly countries in 2013. Read more about our example, Lilly recently brought stakeholders is playing an important role to improve Conversations Maps in the Patients section. together to talk about what can be done in the lives of people with mental illness and communities to address unique issues related Alzheimer’s disease. to Alzheimer’s disease. PAGE 42 LILLY 2012-13 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Message from the ceo Advancing Public Policy 2012 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY HIGHLIGHTS As a biopharmaceutical company that treats serious diseases, we Sustainable Innovation About Lilly play an important role in public health and related public policy Through our engagement in the public debates. We believe it is important for our company to participate policy arena, we strive to do our part in an Our Approach to Corporate “ecosystem” of innovation—an environResponsibility in global policy debates and form partnerships with various stakement where innovators can bring forth the holders to create innovative solutions to global health challenges. benefits of medical breakthroughs for all Improving Global Health nations and people and where these medical Our engagement in the public policy arena helps address the most breakthroughs can reach the people who Researching and Developing pressing issues related to ensuring that patients have access to need them. An “ecosystem” of innovation Innovative Medicines has several important elements, including needed medications—leading to improved patient outcomes. sound intellectual property protection and a Conducting Our Business Ethically functioning regulatory system.18 and Transparently Through our policy research, development, Political Engagement and stakeholder dialogue activities, Lilly Indeed, people cannot access medicines Acting With Integrity focuses on a number of dynamic areas that When engaging in lobbying efforts or makthat have never been invented. Therefore, are important to our company, our industry, ing political contributions, we comply with society benefits in the long term when The Importance of Stakeholder Engagement and the people we serve. We develop these the laws that govern such activities. All intellectual property protection encourpositions with the needs of patients foremost financial support and lobbying activity are ages creation and invention—such incen• Advancing Public Policy tives lead to solutions for unmet medical and will sponsor policy research to engage overseen at the board level by the public Managing Our Supply Chain with stakeholders while being informed.17 policy and compliance committee, which needs—and when regulatory systems are Throughout, we seek to strengthen our relais composed entirely of outside directors. transparent, predictable, and aligned with Tackling the Threat of Counterfeit Medicines global frameworks—such operations help tionships with the primary party responsible All decisions are made without regard for the private, personal preferences of the speed innovation to patients. Supporting Strong Workplace for the public health—government—and Practices collectively look for solutions that promote company’s officers and executives. All of Consequently, Lilly supports policies that improved patient outcomes. our employees must also comply with our balance the long-term benefits of medical Engaging with Patients global policies, core values, and legal obliinnovation with the high cost of developAt Lilly, these public policy efforts center gations, which are outlined in our written ing such technologies. Lilly around the world on areas that are critical for a sustainable Code of Business Conduct, The Red Book. innovation “ecosystem,” including intellecFOSTERING Environmental tual property, healthcare delivery, pricing Our annual report of Political Financial sustainability and reimbursement, regulatory system, and Support provides details of our company’s secure supply chain. More detailed informaU.S. political contributions, our memberABOUT THIS REPORT tion on key issues is available on lilly.com. ships in organizations that report lobbying In 2012, Lilly spent the Global Reporting Initiative index following amounts: • A total of $1,680,410 in political financial United Nations Global Compact Index support in the United States: $439,550 in corporate contributions and $1,240,860 through 17 These are examples of Lilly-sponsored policy research projects: the Lilly Political Action Committee (PAC). • A pilot study to identify areas for further improvements in patient and public involvement in health technology assessments for medicines, • $10.95 million on federal lobbying activi• Drug reimbursement recommendations by the National Institute for Health and Clinical Excellence: Have they impacted ties in the United States. This informathe National Health Service budget? tion is reported to the U.S. Congress in 18 You can read more about the ecosystem approach here. accordance with the Lobbying Disclosure Act of 1995. PAGE 43 LILLY 2012-13 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Message from the ceo In the United States, we are committed Memberships to backing candidates of any party who 2012 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY support public policies that contribute to In addition to direct political contributions, HIGHLIGHTS Anti-counterfeiting Measures Lilly maintains memberships in organizapharmaceutical innovation and the health needs of patients. When reviewing U.S. cantions that report lobbying activity to the U.S. About Lilly To ensure patients have access to trusted medicines, a secure supply chain is a nedidates for support, we consider a number federal government. We support organizacessity. The global problem of counterfeit of factors, including these examples: tions that champion public policies that Our Approach to Corporate medicines requires a sustained, long-term contribute to pharmaceutical innovation, Responsibility • Has the candidate historically voted or commitment. Despite the ongoing efforts healthy patients, and a healthy business announced positions on issues of imporclimate. Our annual report of Political FinanImproving Global Health of law enforcement and health authorities throughout the world, as well as the tance to Lilly, such as pharmaceutical cial Support also notes our memberships in Researching and Developing efforts of the pharmaceutical industry to innovation and health care? trade associations that report lobbying activInnovative Medicines increase the integrity of the supply chain • Has the candidate demonstrated leaderity to the U.S. government and to which we and support transnational law enforcement ship on key committees of importance contribute $50,000 per year or more. Conducting Our Business Ethically cases, the rate of counterfeiting continues to our business? and Transparently to increase significantly. Collaboration and What follows is a list of U.S.-based orga• Does the candidate demonstrate potential nizations that conduct lobbying activities cooperation are critical to stop this dangerActing With Integrity for legislative leadership? to which Lilly contributes a minimum of ous trend. Lilly is committed to working with a wide range of public and private • Is the candidate dedicated to improving $50,000 a year. Organizations with which The Importance of Stakeholder Engagement partners to reduce the threat to patients. the relationship between business and Lilly holds a board seat are noted to reflect • Advancing Public Policy To learn more, see Tackling the Threat of government? our greater degree of involvement in setting Counterfeit Medicines. To read more about • Does the candidate represent a state or priorities for these organizations. Managing Our Supply Chain critical elements within trade agreements, district where Lilly operates a facility or Tackling the Threat of Counterfeit Medicines see our trade agreements policy. has a large concentration of employees Memberships in 2012: or retirees? Board seat: Supporting Strong Workplace Practices • Would Lilly support have an impact on his • American Feed Industry Association or her campaign? activity to the U.S. government and to which • Animal Health Institute Engaging with Patients Eligible Lilly employees in the United States we contribute $50,000 a year or more, and • Biotechnology Industry Organization the activities of our Political Action Commitmay choose to make voluntary contributions Lilly around the world to the Lilly PAC. Lilly PAC donations, which • Greater Indianapolis Chamber of tee, the Lilly PAC, which is funded solely by U.S. employee contributions. are made in accordance with its budget, Commerce FOSTERING Environmental are determined annually by the Lilly PAC • Healthcare Leadership Council sustainability governing board, which is composed of 13 • Indiana Chamber of Commerce ABOUT THIS REPORT U.S.-based employees from various groups within the company. Support is divided • National Association of Manufacturers Global Reporting Initiative index between the federal and state levels and • Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacallocated among various candidates accordturers of America United Nations Global Compact Index ing to specific recommendations from Non-board seat: Lilly’s government affairs department and employee PAC members. Lilly PAC meets • Business Roundtable all disclosure requirements and is audited • U.S. Chamber of Commerce annually by Ernst & Young. PAGE 44 LILLY 2012-13 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Message from the ceo Managing Our Supply Chain Lilly Suppliers in 2012 by Type 2012 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY HIGHLIGHTS Ensuring our products are in stock and available globally wherever 4% About Lilly patients need them is one of our top priorities. As worldwide attention has increasingly focused on the need to monitor global supply Our Approach to Corporate chains to ensure reliability and safety, we at Lilly have continued Responsibility to invest in this area. Through better integration of Lilly-owned 95% Improving Global Health facilities and external suppliers, we have been able to provide a conResearching and Developing sistent flow of materials so we can manufacture our medicines in a 1% Innovative Medicines more efficient and effective manner. We view our supply chain as an Conducting Our Business Ethically extension of our operations, and we strive to instill our company’s and Transparently TIER A: Suppliers provide goods and operating principles within our supplier network. These include our services across a range of areas needed for Acting With Integrity support of the United Nations Global Compact principles, adherence general business functioning. These include general office supplies, travel services, to labor laws, development of a diverse supply base, and the promoTier C 1% Tier B 4% Tier A 95% The Importance of Stakeholder Engagement IT equipment, catering, and other routine services. Advancing Public Policy tion of sustainability efforts to minimize our environmental impact. TIER B: Suppliers provide raw materials and To learn more about our environmental impacts and how we work to other common commodities used for packag• Managing Our Supply Chain ing and manufacturing operations. These mitigate them, see Fostering Environmental Sustainability. include packaging materials, waste disposal Tackling the Threat of Counterfeit Medicines services, and energy. Supporting Strong Workplace in the manufacturing process. In 2012, most TIER C: Suppliers provide active pharmaPractices Lilly’s Supply Chain at a Glance ceutical ingredients, including specialty of our bulk manufacturing occurred in Lillychemicals. Suppliers in this tier include active Lilly maintains relationships with thousands owned sites, including three locations in the ingredient suppliers, contract manufacturers, Engaging with Patients of suppliers of materials and services. We United States, as well as facilities in Ireland, and research and development labs. categorize these suppliers into three tiers Puerto Rico, and the United Kingdom. Lilly around the world to help identify their potential impact to our Finishing operations, including labeling In 2012, Lilly used the services of approximately 86,000 suppliers. Supplier data include Elanco, our animal FOSTERING Environmental business from a supply risk19 perspective. and packaging, take place at multiple Lilly health division. sustainability See the chart for more detail. and third-party sites throughout the world. Distribution and warehousing activities are the maintenance of our inventory of critical ABOUT THIS REPORT located at or near each site. raw materials across the company. These Maintaining Quality, Safety, and We conduct annual business continuity and inventory levels are monitored quarterly to Global Reporting Initiative index Security of Supply supply risk assessments at each of our assure they are adequate. United Nations Global Compact Index Our ability to manufacture quality medicines sites. We also track and map suppliers by We have a number of ongoing initiatives to for the people we serve depends on the location, enabling a faster evaluation of our enhance the security of our supply chains quality and availability of the materials used supply risk by geographic area. Lilly’s raw and our extended distribution network. For material suppliers are evaluated according example, over the past few years, Lilly has to three levels of impact: patient impacts, played a leading role in the industry to help 19 Supply risk is the risk associated with Lilly’s dependence on commercial impacts, and health, safety, a third party for either services or materials that are critical spur the global adoption of Transported Asset to the operation of our business. Supply risk can come from and environment (HSE) impacts. For those Protection Association (TAPA) standards. many factors, including but not limited to supplier financial suppliers deemed to have a higher risk, Now commonplace across the industry, stability, the ability to produce or provide services in a quality manner, or the impact of a natural disaster on the supplier’s additional evaluations are conducted. Our these standards govern the warehousing and site. This risk is monitored on an annual basis, and mitigation manufacturing policy committee oversees shipping of goods. TAPA helps ensure that a plans are implemented and monitored to minimize it. PAGE 45 LILLY 2012-13 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Message from the ceo certain level of security for our pharmaceutienvironmental impacts across the product lifecycal transportation carriers and warehouse/ cle, see Fostering Environmental Sustainability. Charles Fisher 2012 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY distribution center facilities is met. HIGHLIGHTS In mid-2012, Lilly, in conjunction with the Senior Director, Global Supply Chain “ Securing a legitimate supply chain and other participating companies of PSCI, began About Lilly protecting consumers from counterfeit developing baseline supplier questionnaires At Lilly, we recognize that a detailed undermedicines is also a major focus for Lilly. See that address not only compliance with HSE standing of our entire supply chain is critical Our Approach to Corporate Tackling the Threat of Counterfeit Medicines standards, but also human rights and ethto meeting patients’ needs and expectations. Responsibility to read more about our broad-based antiics. We also began collaboration with PSCI We established an integrated system of poliImproving Global Health counterfeiting efforts, including product to conduct joint industry audits of selected cies, business processes, and governance serialization and traceability. suppliers. These on-site audits are aimed at structures to ensure our global supply chain ” Researching and Developing assessing and verifying the adherence of our is safe, effective, and responsible. Innovative Medicines suppliers to high standards in HSE perforOur Involvement in the mance, human rights, and ethics. Conducting Our Business Ethically Pharmaceutical Supply Chain Building on this work, in April 2013, Lilly modiand Transparently human rights standards as one piece of our Initiative fied its own self-assessment questionnaire to Supplier Code of Conduct. Acting With Integrity align with the PSCI template. In addition, we Lilly follows the Pharmaceutical Industry are beginning to align our on-site assessment The Importance of Stakeholder Engagement Principles for Responsible Supply Chain Conflict Minerals program to incorporate additional human Management, as set forth by the Pharmaceutical rights and ethics expectations. Lilly is concerned with the many human Advancing Public Policy Supply Chain Initiative (PSCI), an industry group in rights violations that occur in the Democratic which Lilly is an active participant. The PSCI prinAs part of Lilly’s ongoing supply-chain risk man• Managing Our Supply Chain Republic of Congo and the surrounding region. ciples, which Lilly adopted in 2009, were designed agement, Lilly suppliers in Tiers B and C are The conflicts that are occurring in this region Tackling the Threat of Counterfeit Medicines to align with those of the United Nations Global requested to complete a supplier self-assessmay be financed by the mineral mining of Compact; they represent high-level expectations ment questionnaire. Tier A suppliers must Supporting Strong Workplace cassiterite, columbite-tantalite, wolframite, set for industry suppliers in the areas of ethics, indicate that they support the PSCI principles Practices and gold. In support of the provisions in the labor, health and safety, the environment, and and sign a statement testifying to this effect. Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer related management systems. Suppliers in Tiers B and C must be available for Engaging with Patients Protection Act of 2010, Lilly is working to on-site assessments at Lilly’s discretion. develop a better understanding of the supThe vision of PSCI is that, through the Lilly around the world application of these principles, better social, Our ongoing work in this area will also include ply chain of “conflict minerals” used in our economic, and environmental outcomes will the development of a library of supplier capaproducts and will conduct due diligence to FOSTERING Environmental determine the origin of these raw materials result in a more sustainable pharmaceutical bilities and the development of workshops that sustainability supply chain for all involved parties. These will provide tools and materials to help our to avoid the inadvertent support of businesses ABOUT THIS REPORT include improved conditions for workers, suppliers and supplement their HSE programs. associated with human rights violations. This enhanced global economic development, and a work will require our suppliers to develop a Global Reporting Initiative index cleaner environment for local communities. thorough understanding of their supply chains. Upholding Human Rights We expect our suppliers to provide informaLilly fully embraces the vision of PSCI. We are United Nations Global Compact Index com¬mitted to influencing positive social and Throughout the Supply Chain tion regarding the origin of parts or products supplied to Lilly and whether those parts or environmental change in the pharmaceuti¬cal Lilly maintains a long-standing practice of products contain “conflict minerals.” industry, including helping to build our suppliers’ complying with local minimum-age laws and capabilities. Through our participation in PSCI, requirements and does not employ child labor, Lilly, alongside 16 other major pharmaceutical or forced or compulsory labor, in any of our companies, shares a goal of providing suppliers facilities globally. In 2011, Lilly revised our and service providers with common HSE, labor, global standards and procedures to include ethics, and business management standards. specific language about human rights, includTo learn more about Lilly’s work to mitigate ing our expectation that vendors abide by Lilly PAGE 46 LILLY 2012-13 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Message from the ceo Tackling the Threat of the globe. These standards are designed to help patients, pharmacists, and others 2012 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY HIGHLIGHTS Counterfeit Medicines determine if a given medicine is a fake or the real thing. About Lilly Counterfeit medicines, produced and distributed by global crimiSerialization, the unique identification of indiOur Approach to Corporate nal networks, are an increasing threat to patient safety. The vidual packs of medications, is a particularly promising technology. As each batch of finResponsibility Pharmaceutical Security Institute documented 2,018 incidents of ished product is packaged, a globally unique Improving Global Health pharmaceutical crime during 2012, a 1.6 percent increase over two-dimensional code is assigned and physi2011, with incidents reported in 123 countries. According to data cally marked on the product’s packaging. To Researching and Developing track and trace the movement of individual Innovative Medicines from the World Economic Forum, counterfeit drug sales generated packs, serial numbers can be recorded and an estimated $200 billion in illicit profits in 2011 alone. Every year, electronically linked to outbound deliveries Conducting Our Business Ethically to customers. As a result, some countries and Transparently healthcare providers, health authorities, and law enforcement have begun to require serialization, including agencies must spend an increasing amount of resources to combat pharmacy validation that a serial number is Acting With Integrity this growing threat. Lilly faces this same challenge. We employ valid, before dispensing a given medicine to patients. By requiring not only manufacturThe Importance of Stakeholder Engagement a variety of anti-counterfeiting strategies for our medicines and ers, but also wholesalers and pharmacies, to Advancing Public Policy are actively engaged in efforts to combat counterfeiting to protect record shipments and receipts of serialized Managing Our Supply Chain patients and the Lilly brand. products, a documented chain of custody can be established. • Tackling the Threat of Counterfeit Medicines Counterfeiting is an issue that has historimade a sustained, long-term commitment to Implemented correctly, serialization will help cally affected many developing countries, but address this problem. Our anti-counterfeiting Supporting Strong Workplace secure the legitimate supply chain, while the Internet has exacerbated the problem by strategy is composed of three key objectives: Practices simultaneously offering other benefits to serving as a platform to increase the avail• Securing the integrity of Lilly medicines patients and the healthcare providers who Engaging with Patients ability of these dangerous products globally. through the legitimate supply channels; serve them. These include automated checkIn the European Union (EU), approximately a • Deterring major counterfeiters of Lilly ing of expiry dates, a way to record the batch Lilly around the world quarter of all counterfeit goods detained in medicines through targeted investigations, number of specific medicines in a patient’s postal traffic in 2012 were medicines. Internet monitoring, and legal actions; electronic medical records, and a reducFOSTERING Environmental Today, counterfeit medicines are exported tion in fraudulent reimbursement claims for sustainability • Partnering with governments, non-governacross borders using conventional and unconmedicines not actually dispensed to patients. mental organizations, and trade associations ABOUT THIS REPORT ventional trade routes and shipping methods to raise awareness and to strengthen, enact, Lilly is making a considerable investment that change frequently in response to regulaand enforce anti-counterfeiting laws. in its packaging operations, distribution Global Reporting Initiative index tory and law enforcement actions. Products centers, and information technology infraare often made in one country, trafficked United Nations Global Compact Index structure to support this initiative, which through other countries, and ultimately sold Securing the Legitimate will include new technology on more than 30 to consumers in yet another country. Supply Chain packaging assembly lines around the world. Ensuring that patients can continue to The incremental cost of meeting these stanbenefit from safe medicines requires For many years, Lilly has used various types dards is significant: a roughly $100 million innovative approaches to expose and outwit of anti-counterfeiting and tamper-evident investment. Additionally, Lilly is working counterfeiters—and a broad, coordinated technologies as part of the overall strategy closely with other organizations to advocate effort among many stakeholders to give to protect patients. We are also putting for common serialization standards in the patients confidence in the safety and effisystems in place to meet emerging pharmaUnited States and globally. These efforts cacy of the medicines they take. Lilly has ceutical “track and trace” standards around will help doctors, pharmacists, and patients PAGE 47 LILLY 2012-13 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Message from the ceo around the world trust the legitimacy of the testing samples, testifying in court, and medicines they prescribe, dispense, and filing civil actions. Lilly also participates in John C. Lechleiter, Ph.D. 2012 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY receive, respectively. the World Customs Organization’s Interface HIGHLIGHTS chairman, president, and CEO, Public-Members (IPM) database, a secure Eli Lilly and Company, March 2013 “ online tool serving as an interface between About Lilly Deterring Counterfeiters front-line customs officers and the private Drug counterfeiters put at risk the Our Approach to Corporate Online and in the Field sector. IPM is used by customs agents to health of patients around the world by Responsibility help identify counterfeit products that cross Nearly 97 percent of online drug sellers are not producing substandard and sometimes national borders. legitimate under U.S. pharmacy laws. The vast lethal medicines. Putting an end to Improving Global Health majority of pharmacy websites do not require counterfeiting requires broad, coordiResearching and Developing a valid prescription to sell a medicine; others Partnering with nated action on a global scale. This new issue an on-the-spot “prescription” after a initiative between the pharmaceutical Innovative Medicines Global Stakeholders visitor completes an online questionnaire. This industry and INTERPOL is aimed at Conducting Our Business Ethically setting provides the perfect haven for counterIn March 2013, INTERPOL and 29 of the helping ensure that patients can trust and Transparently feiters to sell counterfeit medicines. world’s leading pharmaceutical companies in the safety and efficacy of the medi” joined forces to launch a landmark agreecines they rely on. Acting With Integrity Lilly is deeply engaged in efforts to close off ment to combat counterfeit medicines. The such illegitimate channels on the Internet. The Importance of Stakeholder Engagement three-year initiative is funded by an investWe are a founder and board member of the ment of nearly $5.9 million combined from Advancing Public Policy Alliance for Safe Online Pharmacies (ASOP), the companies involved and is designed is categorized by the U.S. Small Business a broad coalition of stakeholders with an Managing Our Supply Chain to forge strong partnerships between law Administration as a small business. interest in protecting patient safety and enforcement and industry to enhance the ensuring patients have access to safe and The mission of our supplier development • Tackling the Threat of Counterfeit Medicines global response to pharmaceutical crime. legitimate online pharmacies. In Europe, efforts is to accomplish the following: Supporting Strong Workplace we are an active partner in the European The program targets multiple issues, Practices Alliance for Access to Safe Medicines including combating branded and generic • Encourage diverse and small businesses (EAASM) and ASOP EU to further educate drug counterfeiting, as well as identifying to grow as they work with Lilly and to Engaging with Patients patients about the dangers of counterfeit and dismantling organized crime networks attract new business to our communimedicines and encourage Internet stakelinked to this illegal activity. Lilly was a ties—creating a greater quality of life; Lilly around the world • Utilize smaller niche suppliers to provide holders to take voluntary action to tackle leader in the formation of this important the problem of illegal online pharmacies. public-private partnership. competitive opportunities over larger, FOSTERING Environmental well-known companies—giving Lilly an sustainability Lilly works collaboratively with European advantage when achieving business objecABOUT THIS REPORT stakeholders (pharmacists, wholesalers, Supplier Diversity tives; and and parallel distributors) on the successful implementation of the Falsified Medicines Lilly aspires to broaden the participation of • Access additional expertise from diverse Global Reporting Initiative index small and diverse businesses in our supplier businesses to bring fresh perspectives and Directive. The Directive is an EU initiative designed to safeguard public health by network. Supplier Diversity Development cutting-edge opportunities from an often United Nations Global Compact Index regulating pharmaceutical supply chains (SDD) delivers value and creates a competiuntapped source of talented suppliers. and monitoring activity to help prevent tive advantage for Lilly by linking the external Since 2005, the U.S. Small Business counterfeit medicines from being dispensed capabilities of ethnically diverse, womenAdministration has recognized Lilly as to patients through legitimate supply chain owned, and small businesses to Lilly’s “outstanding” in our efforts to promote and channels in the European Union. internal business needs, helping to spur maintain supplier diversity, and we strive innovation and creativity. In so doing, we are to maintain this rating. In 2012, we spent a In addition, Lilly supports prosecutors better able to understand and connect with total of $500.5 million with 346 businesses and other law enforcement personnel in those we serve. Diverse suppliers are defined classified as diverse and 304 woman-owned the criminal prosecution of counterfeiters as those with at least 51 percent ownership businesses, as well as $714.7 million with around the world by gathering evidence, by an ethnic minority, a female, or one that 1,610 businesses classified as small. PAGE 48 LILLY 2012-13 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Supporting Strong Message from the ceo 2012 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY HIGHLIGHTS About Lilly Our Approach to Corporate Responsibility Workplace Practices Improving Global Health Researching and Developing Innovative Medicines At Lilly, we invest in our people, providing competitive salaries, robust training and development programs, and benefits to support 38,088 20 Conducting Our Business Ethically and Transparently their overall well-being. Our culture fosters collaboration and Supporting Strong Workplace engagement, builds teamwork, and inspires creativity. Our talented Practices and engaged employees are part of an enterprise that strives to worldwide workforce (as of June 30, 2013) make a positive difference in the lives of patients worldwide. Diversity and Inclusion Employee Health, Safety, and Wellness We’re proud to be recognized year over year Inspired levels of employee engagement and 75 as one of the best places to work. That’s a productivity are achieved through investments Engaging with Patients legacy instilled more than 137 years ago by that promote individual well-being and conour founder, Colonel Eli Lilly. His values of tribute to overall organizational health. Lilly around the world integrity, excellence, and respect for people number of different remain the hallmarks of our company and FOSTERING Environmental drive us in fulfilling our mission: making Compensation and Benefits nationalities represented in the workforce sustainability medicines that help people live longer, Lilly’s pay programs are designed to deliver ABOUT THIS REPORT healthier, more active lives. total compensation that is competitive with the market, drive a high-performance 50 We welcome and encourage a diverse, Global Reporting Initiative index multicultural workforce that is reflective of culture by rewarding top performers, and the patients we serve and are committed to be affordable for the business. Our pay-forUnited Nations Global Compact Index performance philosophy links individual and upholding the principles of nondiscrimination. We promote a culture of health and company performance with compensation  Approximate number of languages spoken at safety and are working hard to reduce our to help employees understand the relaIndianapolis headquarters injury rates across our company. tionship between the work they do and the company’s bottom line. Employees are evaluated annually for A Rewarding Work Environment 24% development and performance. The Creating an environment where our employprocess, which is required for all employees are able to bring their whole selves to ees, includes a set of tools and resources work is important for an innovation company designed to align individual work with Reduction in total recordable like ours. When employees feel they belong, company objectives and positively impact injury rate since 2007 they’re free to focus on what truly matters: performance through assessment, coachour patients. ing, and continuous improvement. 20 The majority of Lilly’s workforce are full-time employees. PAGE 49 LILLY 2012-13 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Message from the ceo company remain viable in an increasingly competitive environment. 2012 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY HIGHLIGHTS workforce highlights Lilly employees receive approximately 40 Freedom of Association Employees (as of June 30, 2013) hours of required training each year and Lilly recognizes the importance of freedom About Lilly have access to additional learning and Our Approach to Corporate 10,175 Indianapolis development programs based upon their of association in the workplace and respects the right of our employees to join associafunctional expertise and career aspirations. tions of their own choosing. We interact 944 Responsibility Indiana (excluding Employee development includes trainwith works councils and unions in several Improving Global Health Indianapolis) ing programs that encourage a diverse, countries outside the United States; we nondiscriminatory, and respectful working support these bodies and work productively Researching and Developing Innovative Medicines 5,815 United States environment. We require diversity training with them. The vast majority of our workers globally are not covered under traditional (excluding Indiana) for new hires in the United States; supervisors in the United States complete additional collective-bargaining agreements. In some Conducting Our Business Ethically and Transparently 21,154 Outside United States diversity training. countries where we operate, governments mandate working conditions, such as salary Our succession-management process increases, minimum wages, bonuses, number Supporting Strong Workplace Practices 7,700 Approximate number of identifies individuals who we believe have of weekly working hours, vacation time, and research and development the ability to lead at higher levels. We work overtime rates. These vary by country, and employees to develop women and diverse employees for we follow these mandates wherever they Diversity and Inclusion are required. Several of our affiliates have consideration for future openings in key posiEmployee Health, Safety, and Wellness 10% Estimated percentage of tions. Managers from each division assess employee councils that meet monthly with management to discuss workforce-related workforce at headquarters employees in their organization to determine Engaging with Patients born outside the United States which individuals have the potential to take issues that directly impact them, such as company policies and organizational changes. on more senior roles. These employees are Lilly around the world provided development opportunities in their Lilly invests in a wide array of benefits to organizations to grow in their leadership FOSTERING Environmental sustainability support our employees around the world. capability. Lilly also conducts leadership and/or female—participate in summer Depending on location, these benefits retreats globally for employees who repreinternship programs designed to help ABOUT THIS REPORT may include: retirement programs; health sent diverse talents and backgrounds. us recruit, retain, and develop a diverse coverage for individuals, spouses, domestic workforce. We have an extensive global In addition, Lilly sponsors a wide array of Global Reporting Initiative index partners, and eligible family members; disMBA internship program in 20 Lilly cultural and educational programs designed ability benefits; and life insurance. In some locations around the world with major United Nations Global Compact Index to develop and support women, people locations, we also offer health benefits to our emphasis in the United States, China, of diverse backgrounds, and people with retirees and their eligible partners, spouses, and Japan. In the United States, we seek disabilities both internally and externally, or survivors. Many of the benefit programs to recruit female MBA talent through a including the following: are flexible to allow employees to tailor partnership with the Forté Foundation, them to their individual needs. In the United • Center for Leadership Developa consortium of major corporations and States, we offer the same core benefit proment (CLD): Lilly is a long-time corporate top business schools. In addition to hiring grams to all regular-hire employees, which partner with the Center for Leadership MBA interns, we have an extensive propromotes fairness within the company. Development in Indianapolis, which fosters gram for engineering students to support the development of minority youth. One of our manufacturing and quality functions. the CLD’s initiatives is the annual Corporate A primary reason we offer our internship Learning and Development Youth Summit, where attendees interact program is to recruit full-time talent. We provide our employees with opportuwith senior Lilly leaders and learn tips on Lilly maintains a campus recruiting initiative nities to build careers that reward them how to succeed in business and in life. at many of the top colleges and universities personally and professionally. By enhancing • Summer Internships: Each year, more in the United States, including historically employee knowledge and skills, we help our than 150 individuals—many non-white black colleges and universities. In addition, PAGE 50 LILLY 2012-13 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Message from the ceo to gain exposure to diverse talent, we align Lilly employees are asked to participate with a number of national organizations, in an annual Pulse survey, which helps 2012 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY including National Society of Hispanic MBAs, understand employee morale and engageHIGHLIGHTS Privacy Concerns Black Data Processing Associates, National ment. Responses also give valuable feedback Black MBA Association, Asian MBA, Adelante, to our leaders about how they are leading We were the first in our industry to formally About Lilly Thurgood Marshall College Fund, National during this challenging period. The number implement a policy to protect the privacy Our Approach to Corporate Organization for the Professional Advancement of employees who participate in the survey of our employees’ genetic information, Responsibility of Black Chemists and Chemical Engineers, remained high in 2012, at 82 percent. Results with the goal of ensuring such information National Society of Black Engineers, Society of of the 2012 survey show that employees are cannot be used to discriminate in employImproving Global Health Hispanic Professional Engineers, The Society feeling more positive about Lilly, individual ment and benefit-related decisions. of Women Engineers, and The Consortium for work areas, and our leadership compared to Researching and Developing Graduate Study in Management. 2011. Overall employee “satisfaction in Lilly” Innovative Medicines rates also improved—from 68 percent to 74 percent. Our greatest strengths remained areas learn about the diverse populations our Conducting Our Business Ethically Recruitment, Hiring, and the same from 2011. These are in the areas company serves. and Transparently Retention Practices of engagement, integrity, teamwork, and Our colleagues who volunteer for these experiSupporting Strong Workplace accountability. Although we made some As a global company, we search around the ences return home as better employees and Practices progress over 2011 results, improvement is world for talented individuals. To address the stronger leaders. Since the program began, still needed in such areas as prioritization medical needs of millions of people, we must more than 400 Lilly employees have devoted Diversity and Inclusion and eliminating roadblocks that stand in the have a diverse group of employees who undernearly 24,000 hours of service to helping way of achieving results. Employee Health, Safety, and Wellness stand the varying needs of the people we serve. children, families, the elderly, and communiWe transfer employees from location to locaLeaders globally are being held accountable for ties in need. For more on this initiative, see Engaging with Patients tion for leadership development and staffing of higher levels of employee engagement at Lilly. the Engaging with Patients and Communities critical skill requirements. We hire locally and As part of this accountability, we asked leaders section of this report. Lilly around the world to take specific actions in their areas of responpromote from within whenever possible. We also provide an online tool for businesssibility. For example, leaders at Lilly Hong Kong FOSTERING Environmental We also pay particular attention to retention oriented social collaboration. “The Loop,” an took actions to address issues related to retensustainability rates. We believe that it takes time to deeply internal social-networking site, offers employtion identified in the annual employee survey. understand the drug development process. ees a platform for collaborating across teams, ABOUT THIS REPORT These included increasing positive communiAs a result, long-service employees are often functions, and geographies. Through it, our cations from leadership, creating an employee in the best position to cultivate the innovation workforce can tap into each other’s expertise, Global Reporting Initiative index appreciation bulletin board, re-evaluating that leads to the breakthroughs that custominsights, and creativity. awards, and allowing greater employee flexUnited Nations Global Compact Index ers expect. As a result, we pay particular ibility in decision-making. In Germany, the Piloted in the fall of 2010, the Loop now attracts attention to the interests of individuals. We leadership team focused on the need to reduce more than 20,000 regular Lilly users. Available want to see a clear indication that Lilly is a stress identified in the Pulse survey through to all employees, the online forum has helped place where people enjoy their work and find the development of the Lilly Balance Proour employees meet new experts within the it meaningful, where they want to build a gram, featuring recreational opportunities for company, expand internal professional netcareer, where they want to raise their famiemployees and a Zen balance room. works, and make new friends. lies, where they feel valued, and where they feel like they can make a contribution. Our signature employee-engagement proPopular uses include interactive internal newsgram—Connecting Hearts Abroad—allows letters, project coordination, personal interest employees to volunteer, on company time, for communities, senior leader communications, Engaging Employees two weeks around the world. Our volunteers employee wellness campaigns, and support for Effective employee collaboration is critiwork in communities where people lack access new business processes and tools. cal to our success, and we use a variety of to basic resources, including quality health care. Launched in 2011, the program is helpIn late 2012, The Loop won the Information programs and tools to engage our employees Week 500 Top Industry Innovator Award and foster and promote teamwork. ing employees from all different operational within the pharmaceutical industry. PAGE 51 LILLY 2012-13 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Message from the ceo Supporting Our People 2012 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY From baby boomers to millennials, working HIGHLIGHTS families to singles, we offer opportunities Lilly Korea named “Best Restructuring at Lilly for employees to balance the competing Family Friendly Company” About Lilly Lilly has been confronting a challenging facets of their lives to maximize success. business environment as we face the expiraIn 2011, Korea’s Ministry of Gender We invest in a number of programs around tion of several important Lilly patents. Our Approach to Corporate Equality and Family and the Ministry of the world to support our employees at work Responsibility Health and Welfare named Lilly Korea From 2009 to 2011, we eliminated nearly and in life. While program offerings vary a “Best Family Friendly Company.” This 5,600 full-time positions across Lilly, not Improving Global Health by location, our intent is to reflect multiple program encourages companies to create counting additions made in high-growth dimensions of personal well-being, includa family-friendly environment with a areas of our business, such as Elanco, Researching and Developing ing physical and emotional health, planning culture that supports work-life balance. diabetes, and business development, or in Innovative Medicines for a successful financial future, developFemale talent retention and productivity high-growth regions, like Japan. Now it’s ment within a career, establishment of improvement are also important goals of Conducting Our Business Ethically our goal to keep our headcount flat at least successful relationships, and the ability to this program. To receive the certification, through the end of 2014. That said, staffing and Transparently positively impact our communities. which is valid for three years, Lilly Korea levels in some areas will go up in some underwent a robust evaluation process that areas as we focus on urgent priorities—such Supporting Strong Workplace At our Indianapolis headquarters, employPractices reviewed internal policies and programs, as advancing our drug pipeline—and will ees can visit an on-site health clinic while also conducting employee surveys likely go down in others. for personal needs such as allergy and • Diversity and Inclusion and management team interviews over a influenza injections, mammography four-month period. There have been 106 In 2013, we announced we would need Employee Health, Safety, and Wellness services, laboratory tests, immunizations, companies, including public agencies, that to restructure in the U.S., resulting in a and wellness checkups, as well as care have been recognized by the Ministry to date, reduction of up to 30 percent of our fullEngaging with Patients for occupational injuries and illness. This and Lilly Korea is the only multinational time U.S. sales force, and that we would be campus also provides conveniences such as pharmaceutical company among them. closing our manufacturing site in Giessen, Lilly around the world multiple fitness facilities, two child develGermany, in 2014. About 125 full-time and opment centers, a credit union, and dry 100 flexible-staff employees will be affected FOSTERING Environmental cleaning services. at our Giessen site. We also plan to close sustainability our manufacturing site in Mexico City by mid-2015. The majority of the site’s 130 fullABOUT THIS REPORT Flexibility in the Workplace time employees and around 70 flexible-staff A New LIFE employees will be impacted. Global Reporting Initiative index For Lilly, flexibility in the workplace is about At our Indianapolis headquarters, a new Lilly strives to comply with all minimumbeing able to recruit and retain the best United Nations Global Compact Index LIFE (Lilly Integrated Fitness Environment) notice periods governing workforce talent in a competitive marketplace and to facility highlights our commitment to reductions and other significant operational prepare for the changing environment. It’s a supporting the well-being of our employchanges. These difficult decisions affecting mindset that focuses on business outcomes people’s lives are not taken lightly, and we and less on when and where the work is ees. Whether for physical fitness, stress relief, or personal development, the center strive to adhere to our core value of respect completed; and it’s grounded in collaborafor people as we carry them out. Depending offers an environment specifically designed tive relationships between employees and on location, Lilly offers a number of workfor employees to be at their best. The their supervisors. force transition services and severance pay. 24,000-square-foot facility features various In 2012, Lilly was recognized by DiversityInc group fitness classes including a cycling as a “Top Company for Working Families” studio, a bike hub for those who choose and was cited as a model of workplace to bike to work, bicycles for employees to flexibility. Our programs are also being recborrow, locker facilities, and an energy ognized at the local affiliate level (see the refreshment bar. Just outside the facility is a box above: Lilly Korea named “Best Family multipurpose track and soccer field. Friendly Company”). PAGE 52 LILLY 2012-13 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Message from the ceo Workplace Awards transgender (LGBT) employees. The company In addition, Lilly has been selected as a 2020 also has been named a Workplace Excellence Women on Boards Winning Company for com2012 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Across the globe, we’re frequently ranked Award finalist by Out & Equal Workplace mitment to diversity on our board of directors. HIGHLIGHTS as one of the best companies in the world Advocates and a Top Company for LGBT Women on Boards is a national campaign to at which to work. Some recent recognition Equality by Work Life Matters Magazine. increase the percentage of women on public About Lilly includes the following awards: • Top 50 Companies for Executive Women: Lilly corporate boards to 20 percent by 2020. Nearly Our Approach to Corporate • Top 50 Companies for Diversity: For the third has been recognized for the fifth year as a one third of Lilly’s board of directors is female. Responsibility year in a row, Lilly has been named to Divercompany that encourages women’s advanceSee Lilly.com for more honors. sityInc’s “Top 50 Companies for Diversity” ment by the National Association of Female Improving Global Health list (2013), which recognizes diversity best Executives (2009–2013). While not all-inclusive, the following map practices. provides a snapshot of Lilly’s global workplace Researching and Developing • Top Company for Working Families: Lilly was awards. Innovative Medicines • Top 100 Best Places to Work: Working Mother cited as a model of workplace flexibility for magazine (1995–2013). employees by DiversityInc (2012). Conducting Our Business Ethically • Best Places to Work, Corporate Equality • Top 20 Employers Survey, Science, Lilly ranks and Transparently No. 5. More than 3,600 people responded to Index: Lilly achieved a perfect score of 100 each year on the Human Rights Campaign the survey, which asks readers to identify the Supporting Strong Workplace (2006–2012). The index measures an organimost respected employers in the biotechnolPractices zation’s efforts toward creating an equitable ogy and biopharmaceutical industries. Diversity and Inclusion environment for lesbian, gay, bisexual, and Employee Health, Safety, and Wellness Engaging with Patients Global workplace awards Lilly around the world U.S. Puerto Rico UK Turkey China FOSTERING Environmental DiversityInc “Top 50 Diversity education Company of the year 2012 Best Employer by One of the best sustainability Companies for Diversity,” Aon Hewitt, Listed on employers in Shanghai “Top Company for Working Costa Rica Spain Forbes Turkey 2012 “Best ABOUT THIS REPORT Families,” Top Healthcare Named a great place 2012 ABC Award Companies for Women” list Korea Company, Best of the to work from the Great recipient, Voted Best Best Family Friendly Global Reporting Initiative index Best list Places to Work Institute Pharma Company of Pakistan Company the year; one of the Outstanding Achievement United Nations Global Compact Index Mexico Venezuela 2012 Best Workplaces Award from the president Japan Mexico Institute for Best Workplace from of Pakistan in recognition Great Places Women Equity Gender the Great Place to of the affiliate’s leadership to Work List Certification, Certified Work Institute in creating awareness of Socially Responsible diabetes and supporting Company by the Mexican Argentina healthcare providers Center of Philanthropy Great Places India to Work List Peru 2013 Top 15 on India’s Best Best Workplace from Companies for Rewards & the Great Place to Recognition, Listed on Work Institute 2012’s Top 50 Best Places PAGE 53 LILLY 2012-13 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Message from the ceo Diversity and Inclusion differences that may affect clinical outemployees to “behave so that the workplace comes and to help increase the enrollment is free of improper conduct and harass2012 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Year after year, Lilly has been recognized of racially and ethnically diverse populament, and other inappropriate forms of HIGHLIGHTS among the top companies in the United tions in clinical trials. This strategy will discrimination.” (For more on The Red Book, States for our commitment to diversity help Lilly better understand the efficacy, see the Ethics section of this report.) About Lilly and inclusion. Ensuring that diversity is side-effect profiles, and risks in minority sought, valued, and respected is critical to In addition to The Red Book, we have an Our Approach to Corporate populations. our company’s success. Our focus is finding Equal Employment Opportunity Policy and Responsibility The inclusion of diversity is also essential a Global Policy on Personal Information innovative medical solutions for patients, and we can only do that with a workforce in our health education initiatives globally. Privacy and Security. Improving Global Health that brings a wide variety of perspectives. Lilly is committed to cultural compeResearching and Developing tency and ensuring multicultural groups We are working to further embed diversity have access to healthcare information to Innovative Medicines within the culture at Lilly by weaving it into decrease healthcare disparities through John C. Lechleiter, Ph.D. Conducting Our Business Ethically every aspect of our business—from how we ongoing community and national outreach. Chairman, President, and Chief and Transparently hire our employees to our clinical trial and Executive Officer “ marketing practices. We are seeing good results from our emphaSupporting Strong Workplace sis on diversity. For example, we have been As we recruit the very best scientists Our commitment to diversity empowers named three times to DiversityInc’s list of Practices and physicians from universities and us to generate unique insights and ideas, “Top 50 Companies for Diversity,” which is medical schools around the world, we • Diversity and Inclusion create solutions, and deliver innovation to widely recognized as the premiere thirdsee an increasingly diverse population improve outcomes for individual patients. party diversity assessment in the United Employee Health, Safety, and Wellness We invest in and nurture relationships among the group of individuals who States. In the 2013 list, Lilly ranked 35th out with diverse groups of customers, partreally form the core of our company, Engaging with Patients of 893 companies that completed the survey. ners, advocates, suppliers, and community based as we are on innovation. And organizations to help us better serve our We recently have stepped up our diversity the way that our business is shifting in Lilly around the world patients. Lilly must have a diverse group and inclusion efforts with a more visible and terms of serving different populations FOSTERING Environmental of employees who understand the varying business-based commitment that focuses and different segments of different popsustainability needs of the diverse people we serve. on people in all areas of our global orgaulations than we have in the past, both nization. In our manufacturing arena, for here in the United States and in emergABOUT THIS REPORT Fostering a nondiscriminatory work enviexample, we promote the effort under the ing markets, has brought me, and the ronment and a culture of inclusion are key banner “What Makes You Unique Makes Us whole company, a greater awareness Global Reporting Initiative index priorities for us. For Lilly employees, embracStronger.” We have developed and adopted of how different we are with respect to ing diversity means understanding, respecting, a formal business case for diversity and the way in which medicine is practiced, United Nations Global Compact Index and valuing differences, including but not inclusion based on the notion that all manulimited to race, religion, gender, sexual orienthe way in which treatment is sought, facturing employees must feel included in tation, work style, national origin, and age. and the way in which people understand ” our operations and engaged in our mission. disease and approach therapy.” Our diversity commitment extends through In recent years, we have increased our leadthe full spectrum of our business, including ers’ accountability for developing diverse our clinical trial strategy and our supply talent globally. Lilly’s senior vice president chain. Promoting diversity externally is vital of global human resources and diversity as we strive to improve the health care our reports directly to our chief executive patients receive. For example, fewer minorofficer. Our top leaders also receive updates ity patients have participated in clinical quarterly on our diversity strategy, while our trials, resulting in more limited information board of directors receives reports annually. on a medicine’s safety and efficacy in these populations. Lilly has a clinical diversity Our Code of Business Conduct, The Red strategy to better understand patient Book, guides our approach to a nondiscriminatory environment. Our code requires PAGE 54 LILLY 2012-13 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Message from the ceo Corporate Diversity Strategy: 2012 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY HIGHLIGHTS marketplace workplace supplier About Lilly We must know We must leverage the We must strengthen our supplier base Our Approach to Corporate our patients individual strengths of and invest in our community with Responsibility our people our partners Improving Global Health Clinical trial diversity Recruiting and staffing Supplier networking and business Researching and Developing events Innovative Medicines Retention Patient education Partnerships with diverse supplier Conducting Our Business Ethically Employee resource groups Partnerships certification entities and Transparently Training Identification of spend opportunities Supporting Strong Workplace Flexible work arrangements amid supplier rationalization Practices • Diversity and Inclusion Employee Health, Safety, and Wellness Employee Resource Groups’ Impact (2012) Engaging with Patients Lilly around the world FOSTERING Environmental sustainability ABOUT THIS REPORT Global Reporting Initiative index United Nations Global Compact Index 10,000 members 50 satellite groups 7,000 internal community 3,000 external community globally service hours service hours PAGE 55 LILLY 2012-13 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Message from the ceo Lilly’s employee-led resource groups connect people from diverse backgrounds for 2012 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY networking and, at the same time, support HIGHLIGHTS African American Forum the company’s business objectives, including the commitment to creating an inclusive In the 1980s, a small group of African American managers met in a small conference room at Lilly About Lilly work environment. Employee Resource Corporate Center and formed the Black Affirmative Action Team (BAAT). Supported by senior leaders Our Approach to Corporate Groups (ERGs) help us understand our to increase minority recruitment, BAAT members worked to advance affirmative action goals and held Responsibility diverse patient populations globally and annual orientation sessions for newly hired associates. also provide a support network and sense of The group was small in number but members’ impact on the company’s diversity efforts has made a Improving Global Health community for employees. difference. Researching and Developing We have 10 ERGs: the African American Fast forward to 2013. The African American Network (AAN)—Lilly’s longest-standing employee Innovative Medicines Network, the Organization of Latinos, the resource group—is continuing the tradition established by BAAT of providing professional deLilly India Network, the Global Women’s velopment and networking opportunities, but these days the AAN is doing so on a much larger Conducting Our Business Ethically Network, the Middle Eastern Network, scale through year-round activities, including the annual African American Forum. and Transparently the Chinese Culture Network, the Eli Lilly This year marks a significant milestone for the AAN, which celebrated its 25th forum in August. Asian Network, PRIDE, Working and Living A record 847 employees, including top leaders, attended and celebrated the anniversary. The Supporting Strong Workplace with Disabilities, and Veterans Leadership Practices theme for the forum was “Honor the Past, Celebrate the Present, Equip for the Future.” Network. An estimated 10,000 employees belong to the organizations or have partici• Diversity and Inclusion pated in their events. Employee Health, Safety, and Wellness ERG members gave approximately 7,000 Engaging with Patients hours in 2012 to help Lilly’s business interLilly Saudi Arabia Leads in Gender Diversity Nationally nally and devoted 3,000 hours externally, Lilly around the world strengthening Lilly’s brand. This work is in Lilly Saudi Arabia has transformed its local workforce. Over the last three years, the affiliate transitioned addition to their regular job responsibilities. from having no female employees to being a national industry leader in gender diversity. FOSTERING Environmental For example, the Asia Women’s Network The process began in 2010 when Lilly Saudi Arabia sought and was granted permission by the national sustainability organizes 30-plus events a year in 10 Lilly labor office to have a “female section” at the Saudi location. In Saudi Arabia, men and women are locations. Events range from development restricted by law regarding when and how they can work together, although the separation of men and ABOUT THIS REPORT and leadership training to speaker programs. women is not absolute. Global Reporting Initiative index The organization encourages Asian women to Lilly Saudi Arabia restructured the local office to accommodate the labor office’s requirements and signed achieve their full potential as individuals and an agreement to attract Saudi nationals, particularly females. That’s when the culture change began. United Nations Global Compact Index leaders, both professionally and personally. Lilly Saudi Arabia now employs the highest percentage of females among all pharmaceutical firms in the nation. Thirty-two females work at the Saudi affiliate as medical educators, medical representatives, and office-based employees, composing 20 percent of the total workforce. Approximately 60 Fighting for Inclusion percent are Saudi nationals. We are proactive in working in the legal system to ensure that the communities in which we operate are open and welcomdevelopment of new medicines. We recruit That is why we continue to raise our voice in ing. We are coming from the perspective of worldwide for these highly skilled people opposition to a proposed Indiana constitua large Indiana employer with a global and in an intensely competitive environment for tional amendment, House Joint Resolution diverse workforce. excellent employees. Our ability to thrive in 6 (HJR 6), which seeks to ban same-sex Many of Lilly’s employees are scientists, our home state of Indiana is dependent on marriages and civil unions. Lilly views this medical doctors, pharmacists, and engian environment that is welcoming. proposed amendment as harmful and overneers who are critical to the research and reaching. In addition to restricting marriage PAGE 56 LILLY 2012-13 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Message from the ceo and civil unions, it could pose challenges to Alzheimer’s, diabetes, and cancer, we need 2012 minority employees the extension of domestic partner benefits. the world’s best, most innovative minds. 2012 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Lilly has advocated that HJR 6 be stopped. (percent breakdown, U.S. only) HIGHLIGHTS We believe this amendment detracts from About Lilly our ability to attract and retain talent, and Employee Diversity Data 7% African American it is detrimental to Indiana’s efforts to be In 2012, approximately 52 percent of our Our Approach to Corporate a life sciences leader, which requires a U.S. workforce was male, and 48 percent 7% Asian Responsibility critical mass of world-class talent in the was female. Global numbers were 54 perprivate sector and at our academic institucent male, 46 percent female. 3% Latino Improving Global Health tions. It will also place further burdens on Researching and Developing our lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender Minority employees made up approximately 20 percent of our U.S. workforce, breaking 2% Two or more races colleagues and will make them feel less Innovative Medicines welcome in our home state. down as follows: 7 percent African American, 7 percent Asian, 3 percent Latino, 2 <1% American Indian/Alaska Conducting Our Business Ethically Lilly is prepared to continue our strong native and Native Hawaiian/ percent two or more races, and less than 1 and Transparently advocacy against having this unfair lanother Pacific Islander percent Native American. guage incorporated into Indiana’s highest Supporting Strong Workplace legal document. Our 14-member board of directors included Practices four women, one Latino, and one person Lilly has joined a new grassroots organiof color. Overall, our senior21 management • Diversity and Inclusion zation called Freedom Indiana, which is is 24 percent female. For all management, dedicated to raising awareness and advowomen compose 36 percent. In the United Employee Health, Safety, and Wellness cating that Indiana will be better off if the States, for all management, minorities Engaging with Patients legislature sets aside HJR 6 so we can focus make up 15 percent, while senior manageon more pressing issues. Lilly donated ment is 10 percent minority. Lilly around the world $100,000 to the efforts. Our 14-member executive committee, Our involvement in this campaign is an imporwhich reports directly to our CEO, includes FOSTERING Environmental sustainability tant investment in our future. As we search four women, one Latino, and one African for answers to complex diseases, such as American. ABOUT THIS REPORT Global Reporting Initiative index United Nations Global Compact Index 21 “Senior leadership” is defined as the approximately 150 top positions at Lilly. PAGE 57 LILLY 2012-13 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Message from the ceo Employee Health, Safety, and Wellness GOALS: Injury prevention goals 2012 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY for 2013 (with a 2007 baseline) HIGHLIGHTS As one of the world’s top-10 providers of medicines, we strive to About Lilly make people’s lives better—including those of our own employees. 50% Indeed, the health and safety of our workforce is one of our greatest Our Approach to Corporate Responsibility concerns. We want our employees to be healthy and productive for the work they do at Lilly and in their lives outside of the workplace. Improving Global Health reduction in recordable Researching and Developing Lilly’s management systems for employee health and safety are injury rate22 Innovative Medicines incorporated into our overall health, safety, and environment Conducting Our Business Ethically policy. Our employees worldwide regularly collaborate on injuryand Transparently prevention programs and activities, such as finding ways to reduce 50% Supporting Strong Workplace ergonomic risks or enhance business processes to boost company Practices compliance. Diversity and Inclusion We believe that successful injury prevention In 2008, we set new goals to significantly requires all employees to be vigilant about reduce employee-injury rates. We report reduction in lost-time • Employee Health, Safety, and Wellness keeping themselves and others safe. Our our progress against these targets to senior injury rate Engaging with Patients health and safety programs are tailored to management and the public. Lilly measures each of our business areas, including sales and health and safety performance globally using Lilly around the world marketing, manufacturing, research and develrates of total recordable injuries and lost-time opment, and administrative global services. injuries.23 Our goals aim to reduce both rates 50 % FOSTERING Environmental by 50 percent by the end of 2013, compared sustainability with 2007 rates.24 Our third safety goal is to Safety Progress and Performance reduce collisions per million miles (CPMM), ABOUT THIS REPORT the rate of motor vehicle accidents, by 50 perWe believe that no employees should be hurt while doing their jobs at Lilly—ever. cent by the end of 2013, also compared with reduction in motor vehicle Global Reporting Initiative index collision rate Our workforce faces a variety of risks. For 2007. To meet these injury-reduction targets, United Nations Global Compact Index example, many of our employees spend we’ve focused on situations that pose the large amounts of time driving, and motor greatest risks for our employees worldwide: vehicle accidents can happen. Others are in slips, trips, and falls; motor vehicle collisions; laboratories where they work with potenand ergonomic risks. we had reduced the rates of recordable tially dangerous materials. Still others face The goals, which were aggressive and aspiinjuries and lost-time injuries by 24 and 21 potential musculoskeletal disorders from rational, accomplished what we hoped they percent, respectively, since the baseline working within a manufacturing setting. would: a change in workplace climate and year. The motor vehicle collision rate (per a reduction in the severity of injuries across million miles), meanwhile, dropped by 14 our global operations. At the end of 2012, percent during the same time period. 22 In previous reports “recordable injury” was referred to as “serious injury” rate. 23 The total recordable injury rate is defined by the number of work-related injuries and illnesses that require medical treatment beyond immediate first aid per 100 employees working fulltime for a year. The lost-time injury rate, which reflects the severity of serious injuries, equals the number of serious injuries that result in an employee missing at least one day of work per 100 employees working full-time for a year. 24 Recent acquisitions, such as ImClone and Elanco Kansas City, are included in the data in this report. PAGE 58 LILLY 2012-13 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Message from the ceo Although we have made solid progress, we company—ergonomic risk; slips, trips and if even one employee is subject to a lifedo not expect to meet our 2013 reduction falls; motor vehicle collisions; and everyday threatening injury in the workplace. 2012 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY targets. One primary reason for this is that safety—translating safety-related informaHIGHLIGHTS This project is timely for several reasons. A we are seeing more consistent reporting of tion into 12 languages, which was used by current decrease in recordable injuries is offinjuries in our facilities in emerging marleaders at all levels of the company to disAbout Lilly set by a flat or even growing rate of fatalities kets. We have worked hard to encourage all cuss injury prevention with their employees. and/or disabling injuries across the manuOur Approach to Corporate of our facilities to report injuries when they We continue to leverage these vital behaviors facturing sector. A Rand Corporation study Responsibility occur so our employees are treated immeas a conduit to injury prevention, conveyconcluded that no mathematical relationship diately, the injury is not aggravated, and we ing information to our employees through exists between injury rates and the probImproving Global Health can learn from the incidents and help avert posters, departmental meetings, and other ability of having a fatality. Although Lilly has similar events in the future. internal communications. Researching and Developing not had a fatality in manufacturing for many Innovative Medicines We have prioritized ergonomic assessEach of our business areas routinely anayears, we have had several injuries and near ments and improvements over recent years, lyzes injury data to improve injury prevention misses that could have resulted in fatality. Conducting Our Business Ethically focusing on ways to adjust the job to fit systems. We have placed significant emphaand Transparently The SIF prevention project is aimed at identhe employee, rather than the other way sis on employee behaviors, through activities tifying gaps in our operational processes around. We’re integrating ergonomic design that help demonstrate a commitment to Supporting Strong Workplace that could result in a fatality and/or disabling criteria into capital improvement projects safety and develop personal safety skills, to Practices injury. After benchmarking several compawithin the workplace, and we routinely host help workers identify their own roles in prenies that have been working on this issue training sessions for employees in all types venting injuries. This approach is critical for Diversity and Inclusion for several years, we developed a multistep of jobs. We continue to invest millions of us to increase employee participation toward process to reduce SIF-related risks. • Employee Health, Safety, and Wellness dollars in projects and experts to implement injury prevention at work and at home. employees’ ideas, further improving ergoIn the first step, we identify SIF precursors, Engaging with Patients Lilly’s risk-management programs cover nomic conditions in offices, laboratories, and which are defined as high-risk processes in all aspects of the business, with intense manufacturing plants. We evaluate our sales which management controls are either absent, Lilly around the world emphasis on mitigating catastrophic fleet vehicles for their ergonomic features ineffective, or not complied with, and—if events. We recently expanded our globally as well as their safety engineering features, allowed to continue or repeat—could reasonFOSTERING Environmental integrated process safety management sustainability crash test ratings, and energy efficiency. ably result in a fatality. Lilly will complete an program with increased focus on dustanalysis of five high-risk areas in 2013. In 2012, we continued to push toward explosion prevention at all applicable ABOUT THIS REPORT reducing the rate of motor vehicle collisions manufacturing and development sites. In the second step, we monitor each involving our sales teams, who spend much In addition, we have increased the scope operation’s progress toward eliminating Global Reporting Initiative index of their time on the road. Through our motor of laboratory safety at Lilly to put greater precursor risks. Risk management and United Nations Global Compact Index vehicle safety program, hseDIRECTIONS, emphasis on safety risks from discovery mitigation, in the form of new or enhanced thousands of Lilly sales representatives chemistry through process development. company standards, are communicated have received behind-the-wheel training. In globally. Each operation is accountable for addition to motor vehicle safety, the hseDISerious Injury and Fatality creating action plans aimed at eliminating RECTIONS initiative covers personal security, Prevention gaps identified by the precursor analysis. ergonomic risk, and sustainable fleets. The In 2012, we began a Serious Injury and program has also helped minimize disThe last step is to measure and prioriFatality (SIF) prevention project examining tize potential SIF events. This involves a tracted driving by employees. high-risk health and safety aspects of our quarterly review of injuries that resulted operations that are precursors to fatalities in or could have resulted in a SIF event. Injury Prevention Approach or disabling injuries. Through benchmarkThese injuries are categorically tracked and Beginning in 2010, we took a new approach ing with other companies, we have learned trended. The intent is to drive and maintain to injury-prevention education, implementthat companies with very low injury rates the SIF rate to zero. ing our Injury Prevention Corporate Initiative. and a strong safety culture can, at times, We focused on vital behaviors to prevent the have a fatality or disabling injury. An orgaLilly did not suffer any work-related fatalitop four causes of serious injuries at our nization cannot be considered “world class” ties in 2012. PAGE 59 LILLY 2012-13 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Message from the ceo Health and Safety Data 2012 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Total Recordable Injury Rate Lost-Time Injury Rate Motor Vehicle Collision Rate HIGHLIGHTS Per 100 employees Days (or) workdays per 100 employees Collisions Per Million Miles Driven About Lilly 2007 1.44 2007 0.62 2007 11.10 Our Approach to Corporate Responsibility 2008 1.18 2008 0.59 2008 12.06 Improving Global Health 2009 0.92 2009 0.38 2009 11.17 Researching and Developing Innovative Medicines 2010 0.96 2010 0.41 2010 10.48 Conducting Our Business Ethically and Transparently 2011 1.09 2011 0.47 201126 10.26 Supporting Strong Workplace 2012 1.10 2012 0.49 2012 9.55 Practices Diversity and Inclusion 2013 GOAL 0.72 2013 GOAL 0.30 2013 GOAL 5.50 • Employee Health, Safety, and Wellness Engaging with Patients The Total Recordable Injury Rate (TRIR)25 The Lost-Time Injury Rate (LTIR) has The rate of collisions per million miles Lilly around the world has dropped by 24 percent since 2007. dropped by 21 percent since 2007. Motor (CPMM) has dropped by 14 percent since TRIR reductions in areas such as slips, vehicle injuries are the largest contributor 2007. Implementation of behind-the-wheel FOSTERING Environmental trips, and falls or motor vehicle collisions to lost-time cases. The slight increase in training, the Global Mobile Electronic Device sustainability have been partially offset by an increase 2012 lost-time cases is primarily due to policy, and other defensive-driving techin ergonomic-risk injuries and illnesses, improved reporting. niques have begun to have a positive impact ABOUT THIS REPORT predominantly in administrative areas. on this rate. Although the downward trend Increased reporting of injuries in our in CPMM continues, our current rate of Global Reporting Initiative index emerging market locations represented a improvement is not sufficient to meet the significant contribution to the higher rates 2013 goal. United Nations Global Compact Index in 2011 and 2012. 25 In previous reports, TRIR was referred to as “Serious Injury Rate” (SIR). 26 The 2011 collision rate was adjusted slightly from our last report to reflect more accurate data collection. PAGE 60 LILLY 2012-13 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Message from the ceo Percent Breakdown of Promoting Employee Wellness In the United States, Lilly offers health-plan Recordable Injuries: coverage to employees, retirees, and their 2012 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY In June 2011, Lilly made a renewed investeligible dependents; plan participants may HIGHLIGHTS ment in the well-being of our employees obtain some Lilly-manufactured medicines 37% the launch of a new global comthrough at no cost. In the United States, Lilly provides About Lilly 7% pensation and benefitsRisk program, including Sprain/Strain/Ergo coverage for preventive-care services (such the formation of a wellness and productivity as annual physicals and cancer screenOur Approach to Corporate Responsibility 12% 15%The team has direct responsibility for team. ings) that go well beyond the requirements U.S. wellness strategy, work-life operations, 36% Slip/Trip/Fall health management and promotion, and established under federal healthcare Improving Global Health reform. Outside the United States, we deliver employee activities, as well as leaves and 27% disability. There are similar wellness teams competitive benefit packages and health Researching and Developing Innovative Medicines 25% Motor Vehicle at several of our global locations. coverage that vary depending upon location. Collision In many countries, our employees receive The mission of the wellness and productivity government-provided medical benefits. Conducting Our Business Ethically 20% 21%mirrors what we call the Lilly Promteam and Transparently At our Indianapolis headquarters, we have ise. Part of that promise is our commitment Other several on-site fitness centers for individual Supporting Strong Workplace to making medicines that help patients and group fitness activities. We have worked Practices live longer, healthier, more active lives. We with our food-service vendors to provide need to do the same for our employees and Percent Breakdown of a wider range of healthier dining choices Diversity and Inclusion their families in recognition that we experiLost-Time Injuries: and snacks—some of which are subsidized. ence the same individual stresses, issues, • Employee Health, Safety, and Wellness We provide showers and bike racks for our and challenges as all others. more than 150 Indianapolis employees who Engaging with Patients 21% When people hear the term “wellness,” commute to work by bicycle. We have also 7% Sprain/Strain/Ergo they Risk often think about the physical aspects made our headquarters smoke-free. Lilly around the world 14% 24% of health and fitness. To fulfill our promise24% to employees, we have broadened this Other efforts to support employee physiFOSTERING Environmental cal and emotional health include free sustainability Slip/Trip/Fall view of wellness by promoting the multiple gym memberships (both on-site and off dimensions that contribute to personal campus), disease-management and smokABOUT THIS REPORT 38% physical, mental, financial, well-being: ing-cessation programs, support groups social, Motor career, and community. In 2012, Vehicle Global Reporting Initiative index 33% 22% launched Fit for Life, a set of tools and weCollision for new mothers, health coaching, and a comprehensive employee-assistance proresources to help employees not only betUnited Nations Global Compact Index gram, including on-site psychologists. We ter17% manage their health but also to identify also promote financial well-being through those Otherthings that can contribute to a more a variety of financial advisory programs. healthy and active life. Some of the Fit for Many of the benefit offerings are available Life offerings include the following: free Sprain/Strain/Ergonomic Risk to spouse/domestic partner and qualified health screenings, well-being assessments dependents as well. Slip/Trip/Fall and plans, health coaching, and access to fitness centers. Motor Vehicle Collision Struck By/Against/Caught Between Other Company injuries are divided into accident categories so that we can analyze, communicate, and act upon global trends consistently. PAGE 61 LILLY 2012-13 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Message from the ceo 2012 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY HIGHLIGHTS Fostering Good Employee Health About Lilly Lilly is frequently recognized for the on-site healthcare services we provide to our workforce in the Our Approach to Corporate United States. Each year, our corporate health services department in Indianapolis logs more than Responsibility 31,000 clinical visits for employees’ personal needs, such as emergency medical services, allergy injections, preventive healthcare, body mass index (BMI) calculations, laboratory work, and care for Improving Global Health occupational injuries and illnesses. The corporate-based Employee Health Services (EHS) staff includes board-certified physicians, clinical psychologists, a pharmacist, nurse practitioners, medical assistants, Researching and Developing and registered nurses. Innovative Medicines In certain locations, our company provides on-site mammograms, gynecology clinics, laboratory Conducting Our Business Ethically work, and physical therapy facilities. Our colonoscopy program, which has performed more than and Transparently 18,000 exams since 1995, has one of the largest screening databases for colon cancer in the world. EHS offers employees medical and other health-related services closely linked with the health inSupporting Strong Workplace surance benefits we offer. Personal health coaches are available for assistance in managing certain Practices diseases and lifestyle challenges. We also offer a no-cost tobacco-cessation program, including nicotine-replacement products, and a free healthy-weight management program that includes Diversity and Inclusion counseling calls with a registered dietician or health educator. • Employee Health, Safety, and Wellness Lilly has twice won the American College of Occupational and Environmental Medicine’s Corporate Health Achievement Award (in 1997 and 2003) and has garnered the C. Everett Koop Award for Engaging with Patients excellence in health promotion (1998). In 2010, our health and wellness programs received the top award for large companies in Indiana from Healthiest Employers, LLC. Lilly around the world FOSTERING Environmental sustainability ABOUT THIS REPORT Global Reporting Initiative index United Nations Global Compact Index PAGE 62 LILLY 2012-13 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ENGAGING WITH PATIENTS Message from the ceo 2012 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY HIGHLIGHTS About Lilly Our Approach to Corporate Responsibility At Lilly, we are committed to shaping a healthcare environment with Improving Global Health better patient outcomes. This means going beyond medicine to do our Researching and Developing part to create a more accessible healthcare system with better treatInnovative Medicines ment options and better care. We also believe we can play a role in Conducting Our Business Ethically educating family members, thought leaders, stakeholders, and deci121 and Transparently sion makers who impact patient outcomes, both directly and indirectly. Supporting Strong Workplace Practices Patient-Assistance Programs including Alzheimer’s disease, cancer, diaNumber of countries where betes, and mental illness, and are aligned the Diabetes Conversation Engaging with Patients program has been launched. Our responsibilities to patients include with our business objectives. Our programs working within our sphere of influence and help us to gain valuable patient insights • Patient-Assistance Programs cooperatively across sectors to promote while offering patients the best treatments Lilly around the world access to medicines, including sponsoring possible. Lilly is a patient-focused business, patient-assistance programs. The patientand these programs help us stay true to our FOSTERING Environmental assistance programs demonstrate Lilly’s purpose. Moreover, we believe they are the 4 sustainability desires to improve patient outcomes and right thing to do. ABOUT THIS REPORT to continue our rich history of commitment in helping patients meet the challenge of We support many programs, including the $ MILLION obtaining access to Lilly medications. Through following examples. Global Reporting Initiative index Amount given to assist students the diverse patient-assistance programs living with mental illness for United Nations Global Compact Index supported by Lilly, a wide portfolio of valuable Diabetes Programs tuition, lab fees, and books medications is available to eligible patients. In the United States, Lilly TruAssist (www.lillyDiabetes Conversations truassist.com) provides access to products Created by Healthy Interactions in colfor eligible patients through several patientlaboration with the International Diabetes assistance programs. The majority of our Federation, Lilly Diabetes sponsors the 2.46 product donations are made through TruAsDiabetes Conversations program, featuring sist, which serves as the umbrella program for Lilly’s many patient assistance efforts. Conversation Map™ education tools. This innovative education method uses a unique, $ MILLION visual approach to facilitate interactive Lilly’s contribution in insulin group participation and empower people Supporting Patients with diabetes to become actively involved in products to diabetes camps We are also going beyond medicine to help managing the disease. The education tools, patients improve their health and manage available in 38 languages, have been launched their diseases. Our patient programs typiin more than 121 countries since 2008. cally focus on our core areas of expertise, PAGE 63 LILLY 2012-13 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Message from the ceo Type 1 Diabetes: participated in the Camps in Color program, Collaboration with Disney an art therapy-based initiative for children. 2012 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Requesting camps received $2.46 million in HIGHLIGHTS A child’s diagnosis of type 1 diabetes (T1D) Lilly Diabetes Supports insulin product and more than 18,400 educacan be overwhelming, and caregivers often Diabetes Scholars Foundational book packs. Lilly also provides camp About Lilly question if they will ever be able to get their tuition support through its partnership with tion with $100,000 Donation families back into any kind of daily routine. Our Approach to Corporate the American Diabetes Association. Both parents and the child may feel the In 2013, Lilly Diabetes donated $100,000 to Responsibility diagnosis is the end of their future hopes and the Diabetes Scholars Foundation scholarship fund for the second year in a row. The Improving Global Health dreams. This customer understanding served Mental Health Programs as the foundation for Lilly Diabetes to partner contribution supported the Foundation’s mission to empower young people with Researching and Developing with one of the most recognizable brands in Lilly Reintegration Scholarships the world: Disney. Lilly pairs its deep expertype 1 diabetes (T1D) to live their lives to Innovative Medicines Over the past 15 years, Lilly Reintegration the fullest. The Foundation used the donatise in diabetes care with Disney’s magical Scholarships have assisted students living tion to fund the Lilly Diabetes Tomorrow’s Conducting Our Business Ethically storytelling to encourage and inspire families with mental illness by directing more than Leaders Scholarships for students with and Transparently coping with a diagnosis of T1D for a child. $4 million to cover their tuition, lab fees, and T1D, as well as conference scholarships for Supporting Strong Workplace Launched in 2011, the collaboration offers books at nearly 350 schools across the United families to attend the 2013 Children with Practices healthcare providers and families a variety States. The program specifically benefits DIABETES® Friends for Life® conference of fun and educational printed resources individuals living with schizophrenia, schizoafin Orlando. In 2012, the Lilly Diabetes Engaging with Patients including a book series for younger children fective disorder, bipolar disorder, or major scholarships went to support 21 students featuring Coco, the first Disney character with depressive disorder who wish to attain a pursuing higher education, as well as 10 • Patient-Assistance Programs T1D. The flagship book, Coco and Goofy’s Goofy certificate or degree from an accredited instifamilies who attended the 2012 Friends for Life conference. Day, is now available in 17 languages around tution to help them secure employment and Lilly around the world the world through many pediatric endocrinoloreintegrate into society. Approximately 1,200 gist and other healthcare provider offices. students have received assistance from the FOSTERING Environmental sustainability Lilly and Disney also offer online content that scholarship—in pursuit of all levels of educaprovides advice and practical everyday tips tion, from high school equivalency degree to Lilly Reintegration Scholarship recipients for families affected by T1D at www.Spoonful. Ph.D.—attending state and private universigraduate with honors and, overall, have a ABOUT THIS REPORT com/type1. ties, community colleges, and trade schools. graduation rate far higher than the national Global Reporting Initiative index average (82 percent versus 55.5 percent27). When the program was founded in 1997, the While Lilly is proud that the program has met United Nations Global Compact Index goal was to demonstrate that if symptoms our goal, it is the students who have gone are controlled and the proper community beyond all expectations, embracing opportuniresources are in place, individuals battling ties, reaching their full potential, and showing mental illness can reintegrate into society. At society that they have the capacity to excel. the end of the 2012–2013 academic year, Lilly Reintegration Scholarship students graduLilly Camp Care Package ated with degrees such as Doctor of Veterinary Alzheimer’s Programs Medicine from Cornell University, Master of For more than a decade, Lilly has been one of Social Work from Grand Valley State University, “Worried About the largest providers of insulin and glucagon, Bachelor of Science in Business Administrayour Memory?” Campaign educational materials, volunteers, scholartion from New York University, Associate of There are nearly 36 million people living ships, and special guests to diabetes camps Science in Medical Lab Technology from Fortis with dementia in the world; about 800,000 through the comprehensive Lilly Camp Institute, and a Certificate in Accounting from of them are in the United Kingdom. Less Care Package. In 2012, 88 diabetes camps Southern Oregon University. The majority of than half of the people with dementia in the 27 Source: www.higheredinfo.org. PAGE 64 LILLY 2012-13 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Message from the ceo United Kingdom receive a diagnosis, yet we Oncology Programs know that early diagnosis leads to better 2012 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY care and support. To help people who have Lilly Mental Illness Program Oncology On CanvasSM HIGHLIGHTS concerns about dementia, Lilly has partRecognized Nationally The Lilly Oncology On Canvas: Expressions nered with the Alzheimer’s Society on the About Lilly of a Cancer Journey Art Competition and A program developed by Lilly for individu“Worried About Your Memory?” campaign. The campaign encourages people conExhibition honors the journeys people face Our Approach to Corporate als living with serious mental illnesses is the cerned about their memories to visit their when confronted with a cancer diagnosis. Responsibility first from a pharmaceutical company to be included in a distinguished national registry. doctors and seek diagnoses. Together, we The biennial competition invites individuals Improving Global Health Despite advances in treatment, individuhave enabled 1.7 million leaflets, 17,000 diagnosed with any type of cancer—as well als with serious mental illnesses, such as campaign posters, and 60,000 informaas their families, friends, caregivers, and Researching and Developing bipolar disorder and schizophrenia, die an tion booklets to be distributed to surgical healthcare providers—to express, through Innovative Medicines average of 25 years younger than the overall centers, health centers, and hospitals in the art and narrative, the life-affirming changes population, largely due to preventable United Kingdom. that give their cancer journeys meaning. Conducting Our Business Ethically conditions, such as cardiovascular disease and Transparently As a result, 16,000 people requested an The result is a compelling art collection and diabetes, which are often caused by that provides insights into the wide range poor nutrition and lack of exercise. Studies information packet and 2,000 people called Supporting Strong Workplace the Alzheimer’s Society helpline and refof emotions experienced by those touched have shown that our program, called Team Practices erenced our literature. Most importantly, by cancer. For more information, see Solutions and Solutions for Wellness, imwe know that 44 percent of people who www.lillyoncologyoncanvas.com/Pages/ Engaging with Patients proves the well-being of people living with requested a booklet went on to visit their Index.aspx. these illnesses, including improvements in patient body mass index, waist circumdoctors, and 15 percent of doctors noted • Patient-Assistance Programs ference, blood pressure, and knowledge PACE more people visiting them with memory Lilly around the world about their illnesses. Since Lilly introduced problems while the campaign was runLilly Oncology is dedicated to helping improve Team Solutions and Solutions for Wellness ning. Accurate and early diagnosis is vital the cancer policy environment—specifically FOSTERING Environmental in 1997, more than 38,000 healthcare if patients are to be able to live well with those decisions that impact the developsustainability professionals have used its resources. The dementia, and the “Worried About Your ment of treatments and patient access to program reinforces Lilly’s commitment to Memory?” campaign has played a small but care. In 2012, Lilly Oncology launched PACE ABOUT THIS REPORT the well-being of this frequently underimportant role in increasing awareness and (Patient Access to Cancer care Excellence), served population. The program’s addition an initiative that aims to encourage public understanding of the disease in the United Global Reporting Initiative index to the National Registry of Evidence-Based Kingdom. policies and healthcare decisions that speed Programs and Practices (NREPP)—an United Nations Global Compact Index the development of new medicines, assure online U.S. registry of evidence-based intercancer treatments respond to the needs and ventions for the prevention and treatment of mental and substance use disorders—means qualities of individual patients, and improve the program’s free online resources and patient access to the most effective cancer training materials will now be accessible to medicines. For more information, see the even more healthcare professionals, with PACE Network website. the potential to help many more patients. PAGE 65 LILLY 2012-13 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT LILLY AROUND THE WORLD Message from the ceo 2012 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY HIGHLIGHTS About Lilly Our Approach to Corporate Responsibility Each year, Lilly donates substantial amounts of products and cash, and Improving Global Health our employees volunteer their time and skills around the world. Our $ 700 history of community involvement is nearly as old as the company itself, MILLION Researching and Developing Innovative Medicines with a global reach that extends far beyond the medicines we make. Conducting Our Business Ethically Many of our donations—including those provided through The Eli Lilly Total Lilly charitable contributions and Transparently and Company Foundation—focus on improving access to medicines in products and cash Supporting Strong Workplace and quality health care. In 2012, we gave more than $700 million in Practices products and cash, a sizeable jump up from $597 million the prior year. Engaging with Patients We are increasingly linking our corporate responsibility efforts and 24,000 Lilly around the world charitable investments to our therapeutic and business expertise. • Strengthening Communities These investments are critical for the people they benefit—and for our company—at a time when society is demanding greater Hours donated by Lilly employees FOSTERING Environmental sustainability involvement from businesses such as our own. We aim to demonthrough Connecting Hearts Abroad program strate leadership by using our resources and our deep expertise to ABOUT THIS REPORT make a meaningful, measurable, and sustainable difference. Global Reporting Initiative index United Nations Global Compact Index Strengthening Communities All of our giving—both as a company and through The Eli Lilly and Company Foundation—focuses on advancing two goals. First, thereby creating value for society and our company. Second, we are strengthening the communities in which we live and work. 100,000 Number of families for whom we are improving health outcomes for those Read more about the giving strategy of The Elanco has committed to end hunger through a partnership in need. For company funded activities, we Eli Lilly and Company Foundation here. with Heifer International are increasingly seeking to do this through a “shared value28” lens; in other words, we are applying our unique assets and expertise to help address pressing societal challenges, 28 Porter, Michael E. and Mark R. Kramer. 2011. “Creating Shared Value.” Harvard Business Review. PAGE 66 LILLY 2012-13 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Message from the ceo In 2011, we began a new approach to The Eli Lilly and Company employee volunteerism, building on our Foundation Charitable Giving 2012 2012 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY long tradition of innovation and caring. Lilly HIGHLIGHTS Lilly raised its giving last introduced Connecting Hearts Abroad, a Total Dollar Amount: $26.4 Million year to help more people: program that sends at least 100 employAbout Lilly ees per year on two-week assignments to provide assistance in communities in need. 37% Lilly gave more than $700 million in charitable contributions in 2012 to help people Our Approach to Corporate Since the program began, Lilly employees Sprain/Strain/Ergo Risk Responsibility have devoted nearly 24,000 hours of service 17% living in impoverished communities, patients facing financial hardship, and families Improving Global Health to helping children, families, and 34% 15% struggling to recover from natural disasters, the elderly. amongSlip/Trip/Fall other needs. Researching and Developing Innovative Medicines At the local level, we focus our community 10% $26.4 Highlights include the following: investments on programs that improve Million 27% • We donated products valued at more Conducting Our Business Ethically patient outcomes, especially in Lilly’s Motor than $645 Vehicle million through our assistance and Transparently therapeutic areas of expertise, including efforts: diabetes, cancer, and mental health. In 19% Collision -U.S. patient-assistance programs, Supporting Strong Workplace Practices addition, we look for ways to enhance the 20% 21% Lilly TruAssist quality of life in communities in which Lilly Engaging with Patients has a presence. For example, in 2012, we Other -Global health programs, and made our largest United Way donation of -Disaster-relief efforts. Lilly around the world more than $12 million, which will primarily Health Care • We gave more than $55 million in cash and benefit local residents in our headquarters in-kind services to strengthen education, • Strengthening Communities state of Indiana. In addition, Lilly, through Employee Matching Gifts reduce hunger, and improve health and the Lilly Foundation, contributes to organihuman services in our communities. United Way FOSTERING Environmental zations strengthening public education sustainability in Indiana. Education U.S. patient-assistance programs: In 2012, more than 300,000 people received help ABOUT THIS REPORT Our animal health division, Elanco, focuses Community Development paying for their Lilly medicines through our on hunger relief and is developing the patient-assistance programs. This is an 18 Global Reporting Initiative index technology needed to feed a growing world percent increase in patients served over the population. Elanco has committed to previous year. United Nations Global Compact Index sustainably end hunger for 100,000 families globally through a partnership with the Charitable Donations nonprofit Heifer International®. ($ Millions)29 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Product Donations 297 335 373 549 645 Cash and In-kind Contributions 53 70 57 48 55 Total Contributions 350 405 430 597 700 29 Total charitable donations include funding from both Lilly and The Eli Lilly and Company Foundation. PAGE 67 LILLY 2012-13 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Message from the ceo Lilly Global Community Giving 2012 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY The programs captured in the map represent some of our biggest philanthropic initiatives. We also highlight several of these programs in HIGHLIGHTS greater detail elsewhere in this report. $ 30 $ 60 About Lilly Our Approach to Corporate Responsibility million over five years million since 2002 Disaster Relief The Lilly MDR-TB Partnership AMPATH We gave approximately $750,000 in cash and Improving Global Health China, Russia, South Africa, India Eldoret, Kenya product donations in 2012 following natural disasters. Researching and Developing This public/private initiative works to tackle Lilly’s more than 10-year partnership with Innovative Medicines multidrug-resistant tuberculosis (MDR-TB) Indiana University and the Moi Teaching and in high-burden countries. In 2011, Phase III Referral Hospital provides donations and Conducting Our Business Ethically launched with a $30 million philanthropic medicines to treat diabetes, mental illness, and Transparently Charitable Contributions commitment over five years (2012-2016) from and cancer. Through the AMPATH (Academic Worldwide The Eli Lilly and Company Foundation. This Model Providing Access to Healthcare) Program, Supporting Strong Workplace initiative works to improve healthcare provider Indiana University and Moi staff collaborate to In 2012, we gave more than $700 million Practices training and access to high-quality second-line improve patient outcomes. Lilly has donated in charitable contributions (including medicines. about $60 million in medicines since 2002. cash, products, and other in-kind donaEngaging with Patients tions) to organizations around the world, driven by an 18 percent increase in the 10k $ 30 Lilly around the world number of people served through our U.S. patient-assistance program, Lilly TruAssist. • Strengthening Communities families helped million over five years FOSTERING Environmental Elanco Heifer Partnership the lilly nCD partnership sustainability Zambia, China, Indonesia, India Brazil, India, Mexico, South Africa Global Day of Service Our Elanco animal health division has The Lilly NCD Partnership, launched in ABOUT THIS REPORT Our annual Global Day of Service is among committed to end hunger for 100,000 2011, provides $30 million over five years the largest single-day volunteer initiatives families—or 600,000 individuals—globally (2012-2016) to fight the rising burden Global Reporting Initiative index of any U.S. company. In 2012, more than by 2025 through a partnership with Heifer of non-communicable diseases (NCDs) 20,000 employees in 40 countries volunInternational®. To date, more than 10,000 in developing nations, with a focus on United Nations Global Compact Index teered in their local communities. families have been helped. diabetes. 800k vials of insulin donated 100 Lilly ambassadors $ 890k raised Life for a Child connecting hearts abroad Global Giving Sub-Saharan Africa, Asia, South America Brazil, Peru, Costa Rica, Morocco, Russia, East Africa, Guatemala, Haiti, Thailand, Ghana, Tanzania, China, India, Thailand Turkey, Zambia We have committed to donating more than 800,000 vials of insulin to the International Our Connecting Hearts Abroad program Since the launch of Lilly Global Giving in 2011, Diabetes Federation’s “Life for a Child” prosends at least 100 “Lilly Ambassadors” employees have helped raise nearly $890,000 gram between 2008 and 2015. As of the end of each year on two-week assignments to to support hundreds of global projects. Some of 2012, Lilly had donated nearly 345,000 vials to provide assistance in developing communithe most popular programs supported aim to help children who have no access to diabetes ties. In 2012, nearly 200 employees from 44 help children in Guatemala and Haiti, address treatment. countries volunteered as ambassadors in food insecurity and illness in Zambia, and impoverished communities in 11 countries. provide disaster relief in Thailand, Turkey, and East Africa. PAGE 68 LILLY 2012-13 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Message from the ceo Lilly Global Community Giving 2012 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY HIGHLIGHTS About Lilly Our Approach to Corporate 27 M $ 2.5 M Responsibility Improving Global Health number of meals to be education-focused grant to Researching and Developing delivered by the end of 2015 improve public education Innovative Medicines indy hunger network Mind Trust Grant Conducting Our Business Ethically Indiana Indianapolis, Indiana and Transparently Elanco is a primary sponsor of the Indy Hunger Our largest-ever education-focused grant Network (IHN), a coalition of hunger relief ($2.5 million over three years through 2012) to The Supporting Strong Workplace organizations in Indianapolis. IHN has a goal of Mind Trust is helping improve public education for Practices delivering 27 million meals by the end of 2015. underserved children in Indianapolis through programs such as Teach For America and by providing Engaging with Patients support for a novel charter school network. Lilly around the world • Strengthening Communities FOSTERING Environmental sustainability 2,000 20,000 12.69 M ABOUT THIS REPORT Global Reporting Initiative index $ United Nations Global Compact Index teachers supported pounds of watermelon donated by Lilly financially and strategically grown and harvested stem program Golden Harvest united way Indiana Augusta, Georgia Indiana Lilly is financially and strategically supporting Elanco employees grew and harvested In 2012, Lilly donated a record breaking the implementation of the Indiana Science more than 20,000 pounds of watermelon $12.69 million to the United Way. Initiative in our home state, supporting and 6,000 pounds of pumpkins on land 2,000 teachers serving 53,000 students. This owned and managed by Elanco Augusta investment is part of our commitment to to benefit Golden Harvest, a local food bank. encourage students to study and perform well in the subjects of Science, Technology, Engineering, and Mathematics (STEM). PAGE 69 LILLY 2012-13 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Message from the ceo Global Day of Service Among the top-supported projects by employees is the Copperbelt Livelihood Bart Peterson 2012 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Our annual Global Day of Service (GDOS) Enhancement Project in Zambia. The CopHIGHLIGHTS is among the largest single-day volunteer Lilly senior vice president of corporate perbelt Province faces a pervasive problem initiatives of any U.S. company. In 2012, affairs and communications “ of food insecurity, illness, and dependency. About Lilly more than 20,000 employees in 40 countries Elanco has partnered with Heifer InterOne of our goals with Connecting Hearts volunteered in their local communities. national to help more than 6,000 families Our Approach to Corporate Abroad is to give our employees an opporResponsibility In Indianapolis, Indiana, we focused our work through multiple interventions. These tunity to view the world through a different along six waterways as part of a larger citywide include training in animal husbandry and lens and bring their talents, energy, Improving Global Health collaborative known as Reconnecting to Our agricultural practices, as well as propassion, and compassion to serve people Waterways. Nearly 8,000 Lilly employees and grams to improve awareness about health, around the world. As we think about the Researching and Developing hygiene, and sanitation. Read more about Innovative Medicines other volunteers picked up litter, removed kind of company we want to be over the invasive plants, marked storm drains, and Elanco’s hunger initiatives on pages 68-69. next several decades, Connecting Hearts Conducting Our Business Ethically painted or installed public art projects. Abroad gives our employees—and Lilly—a and Transparently Connecting Hearts Abroad clearer view of the world, which can only ” Since the annual service day’s inception in make us a better company. Supporting Strong Workplace 2008, Lilly has contributed approximately Our signature Connecting Hearts Abroad Practices 475,000 volunteer hours at an estimated program sends at least 100 “Lilly Ambassavalue of nearly $10 million. dors” each year on two-week assignments Engaging with Patients to provide assistance in developing commuWatch a video about our GDOS Oncology on Supporting HOPE CanvasSM Story. nities. Through Connecting Hearts Abroad, Lilly around the world Lilly has sent more than 400 employees The Lilly NCD Partnership, launched in from its operations worldwide on service 2011, provides $30 million over five years • Strengthening Communities Employee Matching Gifts assignments in communities throughout (2012-2016) to fight the rising burden of FOSTERING Environmental Asia, Africa, Eastern Europe, and Latin non-communicable diseases (NCDs) in In 2011, Lilly introduced a new program that— sustainability America—communities that often lack developing nations, with a focus on diabefor the first time—gave employees across access to basic resources such as clean tes. In 2013—and for the first time—a team the globe a voice in how our company directs ABOUT THIS REPORT water, medical care, or quality education. of Connecting Hearts Abroad Lilly employee some of its philanthropic dollars through The Since the program began, Lilly employees volunteers traveled to Johannesburg, South Global Reporting Initiative index Eli Lilly and Company Foundation. have devoted nearly 24,000 hours of service Africa, to work with Project HOPE through Since its launch, Lilly employees have to helping children, families, the elderly, the Lilly NCD Partnership. United Nations Global Compact Index raised more than $890,000 through Lilly and communities in need. Ten Lilly volunteers in South Africa applied Global Giving and supported over 800 Upon returning from their service assignspecific skills and expertise to support the projects in the areas of health, hunger, ments, Lilly ambassadors share their work of the HOPE Centre in Zandspruit, education, the environment, and disaster experiences and insights with colleagues an extremely impoverished area on the relief. These contributions include personal through town hall style and team meetoutskirts of Johannesburg. The HOPE donations, a dollar-for-dollar match by The ings, blogs, and videos. The goal is to help Centre provides treatment and care to local Eli Lilly and Company Foundation of eligible employees gain a deeper global perspective residents and strives to inform, educate, donations, and application of a one-time and spark new ideas and ways of thinkand empower the community about health $50 foundation credit given to employees in ing about patients, ultimately making Lilly issues, especially diabetes and hyperten2011. Some of the most popular programs a better company. Watch a video about sion. At the HOPE Centre, the team of supported aim to help children in Guatethe program: Lima: A Connecting Hearts Lilly volunteers—which included doctors, mala and Haiti, address food insecurity and Abroad Story. pharmacists, diabetes educators, and comillness in Zambia, and provide disaster relief munication specialists—helped conduct in Thailand, Turkey and East Africa. PAGE 70 LILLY 2012-13 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Message from the ceo community screenings, worked with the Globally, Elanco develops the technolclinic support team to improve pharmacy ogy needed to feed a growing population. jeff simmons 2012 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY and lab operating procedures, developed Locally, we provide solutions to achieve HIGHLIGHTS Elanco president information sheets to help improve patient food security through community partner“ understanding and medication compliance, ships and initiatives to create awareness About Lilly In the next five years, Elanco will use its and supported nutrition education and peer and increase engagement. Personally, our resources to ‘break the cycle’ of hunger Our Approach to Corporate educator training. employees donate their time and talin 100 communities. We will make food Responsibility ents to break the cycle of hunger in their more secure for a sustainable period. By communities. Improving Global Health Elanco: Fighting Hunger breaking the cycle of hunger, we help Learn more about specific Elanco create hope and opportunity for the hungry at Home and Abroad initiatives here. while we experience hunger up close and Researching and Developing ” Innovative Medicines Elanco, a division of Lilly, focuses on personal. enriching lives through food and pet comBreaking the Cycle Conducting Our Business Ethically panionship. At Elanco, enriching life means Elanco supports diverse global projects and Transparently more than providing innovative products and through employee and customer engageSupporting Strong Workplace services; it means accepting responsibility ment to fight hunger and achieve food United Way Campaign for our community—and our world. security. Through Elanco’s innovations, Practices Lilly’s support of the United Way dates back In 2011, the world’s population reached 7 volunteer efforts, customer engagement, to the 1800s, when Colonel Eli Lilly sponEngaging with Patients billion on its way to a predicted 9 billion or and financial support, we’ve already begun sored the Charity Organization Society, a more by the year 2050. Between now and “breaking the cycle” in more than 20 forerunner of today’s charity. Over 92 years, Lilly around the world communities. 2020, we’ll see the fastest growth of the Lilly has raised more than $245 million for global middle class in history. By 2050, we’ll We’re committed to making a difference in the nonprofit organization. • Strengthening Communities have 3 billion more people move into the ways that are sustainable for at least a year middle class, living healthier, more producIn 2012, we donated a record-breaking FOSTERING Environmental and that achieve the following objectives: tive lives. But the fastest period of that $12.69 million to the organization, with 564 sustainability growth will occur between now and 2020. • Impact a specific group of people with a United Way affiliates receiving money from ABOUT THIS REPORT Historically, the first thing populations do hunger/food project, our campaign. As the largest gift in our as they gain income is improve their diets— company’s history, the donation represents • Involve Elanco employees for support, and Global Reporting Initiative index broadening beyond rice or beans to include the contributions of Lilly’s U.S. employees • Connect with Elanco key stakeholders and and retirees, plus a matching gift from milk, eggs, and meat. customers. United Nations Global Compact Index The Eli Lilly and Company Foundation. The Elanco is focused on breaking the cycle of Elanco provides all our employees with funds will help support the United Way of hunger in 100 communities by 2017. Our a half-day of paid time off per quarter to Central Indiana as well as other local United commitment complements the work of our volunteer with a local hunger project. UltiWays nationwide. products to help farmers deliver a safe, mately, our efforts will impact the following: affordable, and sufficient food supply. We believe enhancing efficiency and improv• 100 communities—We plan to “break ing technology in food production is critical the cycle” of hunger in 100 global comto solving world hunger. As the global munities by 2017 through local efforts and population continues rising and demand through partnerships with our customers. for protein increases, we must be able to • 100,000 families—A strategic relationproduce more with less. ship with Heifer International will help bring 100,000 families out of hunger. PAGE 71 LILLY 2012-13 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT FOSTERING Environmental Message from the ceo 2012 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY HIGHLIGHTS About Lilly Our Approach to Corporate Responsibility sustainability Improving Global Health Researching and Developing Innovative Medicines The medicines we make require the use of valuable resources, such as energy, water, and raw materials. We know that how we 86 Conducting Our Business Ethically and Transparently operate our business today can have a long-lasting impact on Supporting Strong Workplace people and the planet. That’s why Lilly takes a broad approach Practices to understanding and managing our environmental impacts Lilly’s 2013 CDP climate change disclosure score, Engaging with Patients across the product life cycle. We’re committed to conducting up from 65 in 2012 our business in a patient-centered and an environmentally, Lilly around the world socially, and financially responsible manner. FOSTERING Environmental 90% sustainability our Commitment and Approach • Our Commitment and Approach Lilly’s progress toward meeting our environA Life Cycle Focus Product Stewardship Rainwater capture rate at Lilly’s mental goals (see page 74) demonstrates headquarters in Indianapolis, Indiana, Performance in Operations the company’s commitment to reduce our Each stage of the pharmaceutical product life decreasing the site’s storm water environmental footprint. We believe implecycle includes distinct environmental, health, impact by 45 million liters annually Summary Data Table menting innovative, cost-effective, and more and safety impacts and offers opportunities for sustainable solutions creates ongoing busiimprovement. The graphic on the next page ABOUT THIS REPORT ness value. This section covers the broad provides an overview of our work to reduce the Global Reporting Initiative index range of our environmental activities, from potential impacts from our operations. 11 our approach and management systems, to United Nations Global Compact Index our work addressing environmental issues across our business, to performance data and examples illustrating progress. Number of Lilly sites globally that reported “zero-landfill” status in 2012 (indicating that they send less than 0.5 percent of generated waste to landfill) PAGE 72 LILLY 2012-13 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Message from the ceo Managing Environmental Performance Across the Product Life Cycle 2012 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY materials, water, and energy, HSE MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS AND STANDARDS HIGHLIGHTS About Lilly Our Approach to Corporate Responsibility Improving Global Health research and Materials and manufacturing sales and PRODUCT TRANSPORT AND development Natural Resources Marketing PACKAGING Researching and Developing Measuring, reporting, and Innovative Medicines We consider environmental factors Lilly, customers, and govreducing Lilly’s environmental At many Lilly sales and marketLilly considers many factors from the earliest stages of design ernments worldwide are impacts from manufacturing ing offices worldwide, we’ve in selecting product packagConducting Our Business Ethically and development. Our design for increasingly focused on the are central to the company’s established projects to improve ing, including sustainability and Transparently the environment initiatives related materials and chemicals used environmental sustainability environmental performance dimensions such as reducing to human health pharmaceuticals to make products. We work to program. Our manufacturing while increasing employee materials use and enhancing include green chemistry, environreduce use of materials, water, health, safety, and environment awareness and action. Lilly conpackaging recyclability. We Supporting Strong Workplace mental product risk assessments, and other natural resources tinually works to enhance the track the GHG emissions of (HSE) committee oversees Practices and an internal Environmental when possible. For more inforcompliance and sustainability fuel efficiency of our sales-force our product transportation and Development Review process to mation, see page 74. with applicable HSE regulations, vehicles to meet our internal distribution vendors, and we Engaging with Patients evaluate potential environmental policies, procedures, and stantarget to reduce overall fleet work with them to reduce those issues and opportunities during the dards while making certain we fuel use by 10 percent globally impacts while also ensuring Lilly around the world scale-up of medicine production drive continuous improvement by 2013. product integrity. For more to manufacturing levels. For more throughout the manufacturing information, see page 79. FOSTERING Environmental information, see page 77. organization. For more information, see page 81. sustainability • Our Commitment and Approach Product Stewardship Scope of Health, Safety, and ENVIRONMENTAL Performance in Operations Data in this Section product use product end of life Summary Data Table • Data in this section cover Lilly’s • Years are calendar years, unless stated Lilly is committed to underMedicines are intended to be used in standing the potential effects their entirety by patients, and unused global operations, including whollyotherwise. ABOUT THIS REPORT of pharmaceutical products in medicines cannot be recycled. As a owned subsidiaries, unless stated the environment. We support result, models of take-back, reuse, • Bureau Veritas provided independent, otherwise. Global Reporting Initiative index using science-based evaluaand recycling in other sectors, third-party verification of GHG tions to assess and reduce the designed to capture value from • Data may be revised compared to emissions data for Scopes 1, 2, and 3. United Nations Global Compact Index environmental risks of our pharproducts after use, are not a good fit prior reports due to changes in calcuView a statement about Scopes 1 and maceutical products. Through for our industry. We are working with lation methodology and other factors. 2 and a statement about Scope 3. In collaborations with industry customers and partners to ensure addition, Bureau Veritas verified the partners, academic researchcost-effective approaches are avail• Following World Resources Institute ers, and regulatory agencies, able for product end of life disposal percentage decrease from both the guidance, energy use, greenhouse gas we continually work to further that balance environmental risk, baseline year (2007) (GHG) emissions (except Scope 3), understand and proactively patient privacy, legal compliance, and and from 2011 comaddress any potential impacts security. We also support the proper and water-use data are reported on an pared to 2012 for the from the production, distribudisposal of syringes, needles, and adjusted basis accounting for mergers, following metrics: tion, use, and disposal of our other sharps used in home settings acquisitions, and divestitures, as approenergy intensity, products. For more information, to mitigate potential public health and priate, to ensure comparability, unless see page 77. environmental risks. We primarily use waste to landfill, and stated otherwise. education to achieve this. For more water intake. information, see page 80. PAGE 73 LILLY 2012-13 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Message from the ceo Lilly’s Environmental Goals 2012 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Setting, driving toward, and communicating our progress to achieve HSE performance goals are central to our HSE management approach. HIGHLIGHTS In 2008, Lilly established several HSE performance goals to minimize our impact on the environment and to reduce employee and contractor About Lilly injuries. We achieved our water intake and waste-to-landfill reduction goals significantly ahead of the target date and reset our goals for these measures, demonstrating our drive for continuous improvement. For information about progress toward our health and safety goals, see page 58. Our Approach to Corporate Responsibility 2013 Goals (baseline of 2007 unless otherwise noted)30 Improving Global Health 15% 15% 25% 40% Researching and Developing Innovative Medicines Conducting Our Business Ethically Reduction in greenhouse gas Reduction in water intake33 Reduction in waste to landfill33, 34 Reduction in energy intensity31 and Transparently emissions intensity31, 32 Progress through 2012 Progress through 2012 Progress through 2012 Supporting Strong Workplace 18% reduction Progress through 2012 37% reduction 62% reduction 17% reduction Goal achieved in 2009, four years early Goal achieved in 2009, four years early Practices Updated goal (2010 baseline) Updated goal (2010 baseline) Reduce water intake by 5%33 Reduce waste to landfill by 20%33, 34 Engaging with Patients Progress through 2012: 3% reduction Progress through 2012: 23% reduction Lilly around the world FOSTERING Environmental As described above, we’ve made significant progress against our 2013 environmental goals. To motivate Lilly to continually decrease our environsustainability mental impacts, we’ve launched a new set of goals for 2020. As in the past, we’ll continue to report our progress transparently. • Our Commitment and Approach 2020 Goals (baseline of 2012 unless otherwise noted)30 Product Stewardship 20% 20% 15% 20% Performance in Operations Summary Data Table ABOUT THIS REPORT Reduction in greenhouse gas Reduction of phosphorus emisImprovement in waste efficiency35 Improvement in energy efficiency31 emissions intensity31 sions in wastewater, in absolute while increasing recycling rate Global Reporting Initiative index terms (with a baseline of 2014) above 70% and decreasing waste to landfill34 below 10% of total waste United Nations Global Compact Index 30 Following World Resources Institute guidance, progress toward environmental goals is reported on an adjusted basis accounting for mergers, acquisitions, and divestitures, as appropriate, to ensure comparability, unless stated otherwise. 31 Per square foot of facility space. 32 This goal covers Lilly’s Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions. 33 In absolute terms. 34 Lilly’s former and current waste-to-landfill goals do not include construction and demolition debris, biosolids from wastewater treatment plants, incinerator ash, coal ash if reused for mine reclamation or road base, and mycelia and urea reused for fertilizer. 35 Per unit of production or relevant index. PAGE 74 LILLY 2012-13 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Message from the ceo How We Manage • Our Product Stewardship Standard provides a systematic way to manage 2012 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Environmental Issues product and process risks in our supply HIGHLIGHTS lilly’s health, safety, and chain and our operations, and during the Policies and Standards environmental policy use of our products. About Lilly Several policies and standards define our Encourages and expects each employee commitments and guide our efforts: HSE Governance Our Approach to Corporate to be environmentally responsible and to Responsibility Lilly’s formal HSE governance structure (see conduct work practices in a safe manner • Our global Health, Safety, and graphic) ensures that management of HSE in accordance with established policies, EnvironmentAL Policy sets environmenImproving Global Health issues is integrated companywide. Our global standards, and procedures. These practices tal expectations related to compliance and HSE committee—which includes senior are considered an essential measure of Researching and Developing environmental protection for our people and executives from key areas of the business— performance for all employees. Innovative Medicines operations. ensures proper oversight and plays a central Builds health, safety, and environment • Our Environmental Standard provides role in monitoring corporate performance Conducting Our Business Ethically considerations into all phases of the busimore detailed requirements and estaband ensuring continuous improvement. The and Transparently ness, including product and technology lishes the core governance requirements vice president of global HSE works closely discovery and development, facility design, to manage significant environmental and with the global HSE committee to set approSupporting Strong Workplace operation and maintenance, and product energy-related aspects of our operations. priate metrics and goals, assess company Practices delivery. • Our Management System Standard performance, and oversee compliance with Strives for an injury-free workforce and Engaging with Patients and Verification and Corrective all HSE regulations, policies, procedures, minimizes environmental impact through Action Standard define requirements and standards globally. The manufacturing Lilly around the world implementation of programs in our facilito ensure compliance with Lilly HSE stanHSE committee supports these efforts and ties and the surrounding communities that dards, applicable regulatory requirements, drives ongoing improvement throughout the reduce risks to employees, neighbors, the FOSTERING Environmental and other external HSE standards to which manufacturing organization. Executives and public at large, and the environment. sustainability the corporation subscribes. lead teams in each of our business groups Encourages and promotes waste minimiza• Our Global Engineering Standards and manufacturing, as well as Lilly Research • Our Commitment and Approach tion, the sustainable use of natural resourcgovern many environmental aspects of our Laboratories and general and administrative es, recycling, energy efficiency, resource Product Stewardship operations, such as energy use and GHG functions, manage governance for HSE in conservation, and resource recovery. emissions. those areas. Performance in Operations Summary Data Table ABOUT THIS REPORT Lilly Health, Safety, and Environmental Governance Structure Global Reporting Initiative index United Nations Global Compact Index Board of directors Executive Committee global hse committee LILLY RESEARCH GENERAL AND BUSINESS UNITS MANUFACTURING ADMINISTRATIVE LABORATORIES FUNCTIONS BUSINESS HSE MANUFACTURING lilly research LEAD TEAMS HSE LEAD TEAM laboratories HSE LEAD TEAM PAGE 75 LILLY 2012-13 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Message from the ceo Management Systems development of environmentally superior, impact at their sites. The green teams also efficient technologies, and best-practice engage internal and external experts to 2012 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY All Lilly business units have an HSE managesharing across our facilities. provide insight on environmental issues at HIGHLIGHTS ment system aligned with our Management work and at home. These teams implement System Standard, which is consistent with A total of more than $32 million has projects such as employee carpooling About Lilly third-party standards such as International been approved for investment in 121 programs, energy-efficiency initiatives, and Organization for Standardization (ISO) 14001, projects since 2006. This is in addition Our Approach to Corporate beverage container and cardboard recyOccupational Health and Safety Assessment to the amounts that are spent by those Responsibility cling. The green teams bring forward ideas Series (OHSAS) 18001, and the Amerifacilities independent of the global fund. for management approval and demonstrate can Chemical Council’s Responsible Care These projects have collectively saved Improving Global Health that projects are cost-effective and provide Management System (RCMS®). Our global nearly 940 billion BTUs of energy, avoiding environmental benefits. Researching and Developing HSE management system is also certified to more than 100,000 metric tonnes carbon Innovative Medicines RCMS, and almost half of our manufacturing dioxide equivalent (CO2e) of emissions. To extend the benefits of strong envilocations are certified to either ISO 14001, VolIn 2012, examples included these facility ronmental performance beyond our Conducting Our Business Ethically untary Protection Programs (VPP), or RCMS. improvements: operations, we also encourage employees and Transparently to act as better environmental stewards Audits • Speke, United Kingdom: An energy outside of their work and provide them Supporting Strong Workplace recovery initiative further increased the To assess performance, we audit a signifiwith information and resources to do so. Practices already high efficiency of the site’s two cant portion of our sites globally each year Examples include increasing composting cogeneration gas turbine units by capturfollowing the protocols outlined for each of and recycling in their homes, upgrading to Engaging with Patients ing waste flue gas heat to preheat boiler our Global HSE Standards. We use a riskmore efficient lighting at home, and using feed water, replacing use of steam. Lilly around the world based approach to determine which sites to public transport when feasible to decrease audit and then reassess those sites every • Alcobendas, Spain: The facility’s energy impacts from commuting. FOSTERING Environmental one to five years. Both external and internal team installed heat recovery equipment sustainability auditors participate in each audit conducted. in laboratory heating, ventilation, and air conditioning (HVAC) units to preheat • Our Commitment and Approach incoming air in the winter and precool the Energy, Waste, Water, and air in the summer, reducing mechanical Product Stewardship heating and cooling loads at the site. Natural Resource Use Performance in Operations Reduction Fund Summary Data Table Sustainable Culture at Lilly Making capital investments in technology and physical plant operations can The ongoing success of our environmenABOUT THIS REPORT have a substantial, positive environmental tal efforts is enhanced by our employees’ Global Reporting Initiative index impact. However, these projects compete commitment to sustainability. Hundreds of for funding with other essential projects employees, passionate about the enviUnited Nations Global Compact Index at each facility. To address this challenge, ronment and reducing impacts on local we established an Energy, Waste, Water, communities, make up dozens of “green and Natural Resource Use Reduction Fund. teams” globally. With the support of HSE The Fund helps pay for capital projects at representatives and management, these our facilities globally and promotes the teams work to reduce environmental PAGE 76 LILLY 2012-13 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Message from the ceo PRODUCT STEWARDSHIP 2012 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY HIGHLIGHTS Lilly takes a broad approach to understanding and managing our Lilly’s Product Stewardship Standard About Lilly HSE impacts across the product life cycle (see page 73). This improves our own performance and demonstrates our values, while Reflecting the breadth of productOur Approach to Corporate related sustainability issues, our Product Responsibility also meeting the expectations of customers and other stakeholders Stewardship Standard covers the following who are increasingly focused on Lilly’s progress in this area. areas: Improving Global Health • Emerging issues: Identifying, analyzing, Lilly’s Product Stewardship Standard Design for Environment Researching and Developing and managing new and emerging issues, defines our health, safety, and environInnovative Medicines mental requirements for assessing Lilly In many industries, including pharmaceuti• Procurement: Considering environproducts (see box). Numerous Lilly business cals, the majority of product environmental mental factors in purchasing decisions, Conducting Our Business Ethically impacts are determined at the design units and functional groups contribute to • Product discovery: Reviewing interand Transparently implementing this standard across the stage. In the development of our human nal and external research operations to Supporting Strong Workplace entire value chain—from product discovery health pharmaceuticals, we consider foster high HSE standards, Practices and development; through manufacturing, environmental factors from the earliest • Product development: Using inherently sales and marketing, distribution and use; phases of design and development. We take safer design principles such as green chemistry Engaging with Patients to final disposal. The scope covers both into account the materials and processes to identify and reduce HSE hazards from new internal and external value chain elements we will use to make products as well as products or processes where possible, and Lilly around the world globally. This approach is intended to intehow we will package those products to using appropriate safeguards throughout these grate product stewardship deeply into distribute to customers. This integrated activities, FOSTERING Environmental Lilly’s business. approach enables us to identify opportusustainability • Product packaging: Reducing the nities to improve product environmental We focus on the following areas: amount of packaging and using environperformance. Our Commitment and Approach mentally preferable materials when possible, • Using green chemistry to reduce the use while satisfying regulatory and customer re• Product Stewardship of energy, water, and hazardous materiquirements, meeting marketing objectives, als in our development and manufacturing Innovations in Green Chemistry Performance in Operations and preserving product integrity, processes; In the early 1990s, Lilly was one of the first • Distribution: Ensuring safe product Summary Data Table pharmaceutical companies to use green transport and warehousing while reducing • Reviewing materials used in devices to chemistry to transform our manufacturing associated environmental impacts, ABOUT THIS REPORT reduce their environmental footprint; processes to be inherently safer, more effi• Marketing and sales: Decreasing the • Reducing the environmental impact of cient, and more environmentally friendly. Global Reporting Initiative index environmental impact of promotional product manufacturing; Traditionally, pharmaceutical manufacturers materials, and communicating with cusUnited Nations Global Compact Index • Developing more sustainable packaging viewed the use of hazardous materials as a tomers about sustainability, practices; necessary part of making medicine. Green • Suppliers, contract operations, chemistry, by contrast, works to reduce and alliances: Evaluating and influ• Using science-based environmental risk or eliminate the use of hazardous materiencing the HSE performance of suppliers, assessments to evaluate the potential impact als where possible so protection, controls, contract operations, and alliances (see of our products in the environment; and and treatment are reduced or are no longer page 45 for more information about sup• Disposing of products responsibly at end needed. plier management), and of life. • Supply chain management: Establishing plans to ensure business continuity and appropriate emergency response if needed. PAGE 77 PAGE 77 LILLY 2012-13 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Message from the ceo The potential benefits of finding new and bethundredfold. For example, Lilly scientists environmentally benign solvents, such as ter ways to make pharmaceutical products recently published an article in Green 2-methyl THF, which is derived from furfural 2012 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY are substantial. Lilly’s approach to green Chemistry journal (see detail), demonstratand is considered a nearly carbon neutral HIGHLIGHTS chemistry in our human health pharmaceutiing a new type of Grignard reaction related to substance. cals is twofold: pharmaceutical production. This innovation About Lilly Lilly has also been a key contributor to the reduces PMI by more than 30 percent and • We seek improvements by reducing the Pharmaceutical Roundtable and has recently Our Approach to Corporate decreases the amount of metals and reacamount of hazardous material used co-chaired its workgroup on green chemisResponsibility tive raw materials required by more than 99 to make a product, increasing overall try. One focus area in 2012 was developing a percent. materials efficiency, evaluating chemical $100,000 research grant, for which academic Improving Global Health alternatives, and avoiding use of the riskiProviding our human health scientists with researchers and others can apply, to produce Researching and Developing est substances. useful information at key decision points safer solvents as potential replacements for Innovative Medicines • We strive to advance the underlying helps them make the best decisions when traditional solvents. We have also contribchemistry and engineering technologies using chemistry to design processes. To uted to the creation and public release of a Conducting Our Business Ethically used to make medicines through innovaaccomplish this, we have developed elecsolvent selection guide by the Pharmaceutiand Transparently tion, both internally and externally through tronic lab notebooks, used by chemists cal Roundtable that capitalizes on the best partnerships. within the company, which include informapractices of several companies. Supporting Strong Workplace tion and tools regarding process efficiency, Practices To support these efforts, we have established solvent selection, and materials of concern. Process Improvements for guidelines for both the quantity of materials When any researcher adds information to Evacetrapib Won the Lilly Green Engaging with Patients needed for the synthesis of a new product the notebook, it is easily available to all Lilly Chemistry Award and the restricted use of materials that could researchers worldwide. Lilly around the world The synthesis of evacetrapib, a small significantly increase the environmental and We have also established accountability for molecule in Phase III clinical development FOSTERING Environmental safety risks of a process. Development teams the routine use of green chemistry principles being studied for the treatment of high-risk sustainability incorporate these standards, along with in our human health business. Expectations vascular disease, had previously utilized other design criteria, as part of their Process to use green chemistry are built into our a reductive amination reaction using the Our Commitment and Approach by Design methodology when developing a product development objectives along with stoichiometric reducing agent sodium triacnew process and judging its suitability for • Product Stewardship other important criteria, such as quality and etoxyborohydride (STAB). While this process future manufacturing. We then complete a cost. Development teams are accountable performs well, STAB can release flammable Performance in Operations review to evaluate success in implementing for process efficiency and safety from the hydrogen gas on exposure to water. STAB these standards and share feedback with Summary Data Table point when candidate molecules are selected also poses concerns for material storage and the development teams (see Environmental through the development of a manufacturing handling and introduces further liabilities Development Review on page 79). ABOUT THIS REPORT process, and we monitor progress at major with waste removal. Since 2012, we have To measure progress in green chemistry, development milestones. shifted to a continuous iridium-catalyzed Global Reporting Initiative index we have established material use efficiency reductive amination process. This green standards at critical steps in the human Lilly also focuses on the use of greener and alternative reduces waste generation, uses United Nations Global Compact Index safer solvents. For example, we have made health product development process, includmaterials more efficiently to conduct the ing the Process Mass Intensity (PMI) factor, significant efforts to limit the use of dichloreaction, decreases hazardous materials a ratio of the total mass of raw materials romethane (a hazardous air pollutant) within use, and uses a more sustainable catalytic (including water) put into a process for every Lilly. The edivoxetine hydrochloride supply coupling protocol. This new process is also kilogram of drug produced. chain has historically used dichloromethane significantly safer and has the potential to to produce a key intermediate by an inefsave up to $80 million over the projected life We have developed several processes that ficient resolution process for the primary of the product. To increase these benefits, we improve environmental performance and active pharmaceutical ingredient starting also plan to use this process for other highenhance process safety by reducing the material. We developed a more efficient pressure reactions in the future. operational scale of the most hazardous amino acid-based approach that does not manufacturing steps by more than one use dichloromethane. This process utilizes PAGE 78 LILLY 2012-13 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Message from the ceo Environmental Evaluation, Authorisation, and Restriction reuse or recycle packaging throughout the of Chemicals (REACH) regulation, which supply chain. During recent years, we’ve 2012 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Development Review requires manufacturers and importers of saved thousands of metric tonnes of packagHIGHLIGHTS chemicals to collect and register informaing and millions of dollars through these Lilly uses an Environmental Development Review (EDR) process in our human health tion about the chemicals they manufacture efforts. We’re also collaborating with our About Lilly pharmaceutical business to evaluate or use. These regulations may also require distributors, retail pharmacies, and healthOur Approach to Corporate potential environmental issues and opporreplacing the most hazardous chemicals care providers to better understand the Responsibility tunities during the scale-up of medicine with safer alternatives when available. overall pharmaceutical packaging footprint production to manufacturing levels. The and ways to reduce it. We continue to assess the impact of these Improving Global Health EDR process helps us identify and address new and emerging global chemical manOur Product Stewardship Standard also potential impacts of manufacturing and agement regulations on substances we supports these efforts. It requires that in our Researching and Developing waste treatment, suggest process improveInnovative Medicines manufacture and on our raw materials. We procurement processes we consider the use ments, and share learning as new medicines are committed to ensuring our facilities of post-consumer recycled materials, prodcome through the pipeline and transition into remain in compliance with all relevant laws. ucts from certified sustainable forests, and Conducting Our Business Ethically and Transparently manufacturing. materials derived from renewable resources. An EDR conducted in 2013 identified signifiLilly’s paperstock suppliers in China, Europe, Supporting Strong Workplace cant opportunities for the recovery and reuse Materials Use and the United States have certified that they Practices source materials from sustainable forests of solvents for the manufacture of a product Lilly produces injection devices that patients in our pipeline. Compared to incineration of may use to administer some of our medias accredited by Forest Stewardship Council Engaging with Patients these solvents, this reuse would decrease cines. Due to the function of these products, (FSC) or equivalent entities. Lilly around the world GHG emissions by more than 83 percent they demand the highest standards of qualRecent examples of packaging innovation (equivalent to 4,300 metric tonnes CO2e per ity, sterility, and reliability. Assuring these include the following: FOSTERING Environmental year), while recovering solvent worth up to high standards are met consistently is our sustainability $5 million annually. The review of productop priority. Although our environmental • GIESSEN, GERMANY: We implemented tion at a contract manufacturer that makes design and materials selection efforts extend several packaging-process improvements Our Commitment and Approach an intermediate for this same process to this area, we use only virgin raw materials at our Giessen site in Germany in 2011 for uncovered additional solvent recovery opporto meet these standards and do not currently the launch of one of our products. Through • Product Stewardship tunities that would decrease GHG emissions use post-consumer recycled materials to these efforts, we reduced the reject rate, Performance in Operations from incineration by 87 percent (equivalent manufacture these devices. decreased waste by nearly four metric to 3,700 metric tonnes CO2e per year) at that tonnes per year, and have saved an estiSummary Data Table facility, while saving $3 million annually. mated $1.5 million annually. ABOUT THIS REPORT Packaging • INDIANAPOLIS, INDIANA: In 2010, a joint See more information about our environmental performance in manufacturing on Pharmaceutical packaging is highly effort by our packaging engineers and Global Reporting Initiative index brand teams in Indianapolis, Indiana, page 81. regulated and must fulfill many functions, including protecting product integrity during resulted in simplifying product sample United Nations Global Compact Index transit and storage, providing information, packaging for two products. Redesigning Global Chemical Management resisting counterfeiting, and protecting conthe blister (the protective plastic sleeve tents from tampering or access by children. that covers each individual pill) for one Lilly, customers, and governments product sample, removing the external Packaging is also a source of cost and waste. worldwide are increasingly focused on carton for the sample bottle for another Through our sustainable packaging efforts, the chemical substances used in prodproduct, and eliminating the wallet (the we continually review packaging technoloucts. Governments across many of the protective cardboard sleeve for blister gies and practices to reduce the amount of regions where we operate have developed packs) for both products will save an estipackaging used; to utilize lower environchemical management legislation, such mated $1.3 million yearly. mental impact materials, including recycled as the European Union (EU) Registration, content; to enhance recyclability; and to PAGE 79 LILLY 2012-13 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Message from the ceo Pharmaceuticals in the Lilly supports industry efforts to make In cases where patients do not finish their information about pharmaceuticals in the medication, reuse or recycling is not a safe 2012 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Environment environment and the environmental characoption due to the nature of our products. HIGHLIGHTS teristics of medicines readily available. Our Therefore, we support educating patients Using advances in analytical testing technologies, scientists at locations around the scientists have published articles and preand caregivers on how to properly dispose About Lilly world have measured trace amounts of sented on these topics and have participated of unused medicines because both groups Our Approach to Corporate residues of pharmaceutical products in the in discussions about the safety of pharhave an important role to play. In the United Responsibility environment that were not previously detectmaceutical residues in water at scientific States, we promote efforts to educate the able. These residues are widespread and meetings held by the U.S. National Academies public about proper drug disposal methImproving Global Health found mainly in streams, rivers, and other National Research Council, the WHO, the ods for unused medicines. For example, water bodies. Reported concentrations are U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, and both Lilly and the PhRMA trade association Researching and Developing extremely low—as low as one part per trillion European governmental sponsors. Summary support the SMARxT DISPOSAL™ program. Innovative Medicines results from environmental fate and effect Additionally, see Lilly’s Position Statement (equivalent to about one teaspoon of sugar dissolved in more than 3,300 Olympic-sized studies are available in our Material Safety on the Disposal of Unused Medicines in the Conducting Our Business Ethically swimming pools). An estimated 90 percent of Data Sheets and are routinely updated. United States. and Transparently the medicines found in the environment are As a precautionary measure, pharmaceutiWe also support the proper disposal of Supporting Strong Workplace due to excretion from patients after normal cal products are subjected to environmental syringes, needles, and other sharps used in Practices use as prescribed. and other testing as a part of registration home settings to mitigate potential public At the levels currently present in the environprotocols prior to marketing. Therefore, we health and environmental risks. Based Engaging with Patients ment, risks to human health are considered test and assess our medicines for potential on feedback from patients and healthcare Lilly around the world to be very unlikely. This is consistent with effects on the environment to meet curproviders, we believe that education offers findings of the World Health Organization rent regulatory requirements and internal the greatest opportunity to improve disposal FOSTERING Environmental (WHO), which evaluated selected investigastandards before launching new medicines. practices for sharps. We are working to sustainability tions conducted in Australia, the United We regularly update our testing protocols more effectively communicate this inforKingdom, and the United States. Although for new and existing pharmaceuticals as mation to patients through product user Our Commitment and Approach acute effects on aquatic life are considered knowledge and testing methods improve. manuals, patient education programs, to be insignificant at current levels, the We will continue to collaborate with regulaimproved sales force awareness, and • Product Stewardship availability of data on the potential long-term tory, academic, and research organizations updated information at The Lilly Answer Performance in Operations impacts is increasing and varied, and chronic to advance knowledge in this area. See Center. impacts on some aquatic life forms cannot Lilly’s Position on Pharmaceuticals in the Summary Data Table be ruled out at this time. Environment. ABOUT THIS REPORT As part of our commitment in this area, we Global Reporting Initiative index continually assess the emissions of active Product End of Life ingredients from all Lilly manufacturing Medicines are intended to be used in their United Nations Global Compact Index facilities. Lilly is committed to understanding entirety by patients. As a result, typical the potential effects of our products in the models of take-back, reuse, and recycling environment as well as in humans, and we that are designed to capture value from support using science-based evaluations to products (such as paper, beverage containassess and minimize related environmental ers, or electronic equipment) after use, do risks. We collaborate with industry partnot apply to our industry. We continue to ners, academic researchers, and regulatory work with customers and partners to better agencies to further proactively address any understand and ensure an effective approach potential impacts from the production, distrito product end of life issues. bution, use, and disposal of our products. PAGE 80 LILLY 2012-13 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Message from the ceo PERFORMANCE IN OPERATIONS 2012 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY HIGHLIGHTS We are committed to continually improving environmental perforenergy program mance across Lilly’s operations. This includes our most significant We are committed to using energy in the About Lilly areas of environmental impact—energy use, greenhouse gas (GHG) most efficient, cost-effective, and environmentally responsible manner. To do so, we esOur Approach to Corporate emissions, water use, and waste. We are also dedicated to maintaintablish energy-efficiency goals and implement Responsibility ing compliance with applicable legal standards, advancing our green energy management practices globally. Our Improving Global Health procurement, reducing non-GHG air emissions, and supporting approach includes the following elements: biodiversity efforts in communities where we operate. As a funda• Design for energy efficiency in new or Researching and Developing updated processes and facilities; Innovative Medicines mental part of our approach, we establish, work toward, and share • Operate our facilities and equipment Conducting Our Business Ethically progress against HSE performance goals (see page 74). efficiently; and Transparently • Monitor and report energy consumption Additionally, Lilly has implemented sevand resulting GHG emissions; Supporting Strong Workplace Energy Use and Greenhouse Practices eral global strategic initiatives to support • Conduct energy assessments and implement Gas Emissions these efforts, such as energy submetering initiatives to enhance energy efficiency; Engaging with Patients The topic of climate change is compelling govto enable monitoring and benchmarking • Utilize alternative energy sources, new ernments, companies, and citizens worldwide of facilities and utility equipment, use of Lilly around the world technologies, and best practices; and to act. We’ve responded to climate change by the Laboratory Energy Efficiency Profiler assessment tool, and retrocommisioning37 of • Participate in local, regional, and/or naFOSTERING Environmental setting and making progress toward aggreslaboratory and administrative facilities. tional forums to influence responsible and sustainability sive targets for improved energy efficiency cost-effective decision-making and policy and reduced GHG emissions. These efforts At three facilities, we generate electric development relative to energy. Our Commitment and Approach improve our environmental performance and power using photovoltaic arrays. At a fourth decrease energy use, which represents one Lilly site, we have entered into an agreement Product Stewardship of the most substantial operational costs for to purchase solar power from a third-party To expand benefits companywide, Lilly • Performance in Operations our research, manufacturing, and distribution provider that is constructing a nearly 10-MW employees share best practices in energy activities. Recognizing the connection between array adjacent to our facility. We continue to efficiency through several channels, such Summary Data Table GHG emissions and water use, we have also use renewable energy to diversify our energy as our global health, safety, and environconducted evaluations of water-stressed areas sources and decrease GHG emissions globment workshop, regional networks, and ABOUT THIS REPORT where we operate (see page 84). ally, using direct generation as well as direct Engineering Technical Center. The latter Global Reporting Initiative index Energy assessments are central to our and indirect purchases of renewable energy is a group of experienced engineers who approach. Since 2006, we have conducted from local utilities. Cogeneration, which provide consultation on operational issues, United Nations Global Compact Index 30 energy assessments at our most involves using an on-site engine to generate including energy forecasting and efficiency energy-intensive sites. These findings have electricity while also recovering usable heat initiatives to manage projected demand. contributed to approximately $137 million from the process to improve overall energy We also conduct a yearly internal awards in cumulative cost avoidance36 from 2007 to efficiency, is another important part of our presentation for HSE performance (which, 2012, while helping us to avoid more than approach. We currently feature three sites similar to the initiatives described earlier in 800,000 metric tonnes CO2e of GHG emiswith 10-MW, 4.3-MW, and 2.4-MW cogenerathis paragraph, also addresses water savsions during that same time period. tion units in operation. ings and waste reduction). 36 Lilly has calculated estimated cost avoidance due to energy efficiency improvements based on financial models, energy rates, and other factors. 37 “Retrocommissioning” refers to a structured process for identifying suboptimal performance in an organization’s lighting, heating, cooling, and other systems, and making adjustments as needed. PAGE 81 LILLY 2012-13 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Message from the ceo Progress toward goal—energy use 2012 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY 14,000,000 700 Climate Change-related HIGHLIGHTS MILLION BTUS/1,000 SQUARE FEET 12,000,000 600 Risks and Opportunities About Lilly 10,000,000 500 Lilly faces various climate change-related issues, MILLION BTUS 2013 Our Approach to Corporate 8,000,000 GOAL 400 risks, opportunities, and impacts in its global Responsibility operations, which we integrate into the frame6,000,000 300 work of our Corporate Responsibility and Improving Global Health Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) strategies. 4,000,000 200 Researching and Developing We regularly assess climate change-related 2,000,000 100 Innovative Medicines regulatory risks and opportunities through 0 0 our environmental regulatory technical 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 committee (ERTC), and physical and other Conducting Our Business Ethically and Transparently Direct Energy Indirect Energy Energy Intensity climate change-related risks through our Consumption Consumption ERM process. Information from these assessSupporting Strong Workplace ments informs our business strategies across Practices multiple components within the business. Other educational opportunities include the During 2012, the company’s Scope 1 and One set of risks and opportunities that Lilly Engaging with Patients following: Scope 2 GHG emissions equaled 1,580,000 focuses on relates to food animal production Lilly around the world metric tonnes CO2e, less than 1 percent (the production of animals used for human food • Energy-focused webinars and collaboraconsumption) due to our Elanco animal health greater than in 2011 (see graph at on page tion sites on the Lilly intranet, product portfolio. Food animal production FOSTERING Environmental 83). Lilly’s GHG emissions intensity improved sustainability • Use of our internal social networking site to by almost 17 percent compared with 2007, has a sizable impact on global GHG emissions, share best practices and make suggestions, surpassing the company’s goal of a 15 percent and our products and services help producOur Commitment and Approach improvement by 2013.39 The decrease in Scope ers sustainably deliver more food and address • Global Energy Day, a widely attended annual hunger globally while using fewer resources. employee event that includes poster pre1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions between 2007 Product Stewardship This decreases climatic and other environmental sentations, videos, contests, guest speakers, and 2012 is equivalent to the annual emissions impacts while making food safer, more afford• Performance in Operations and energy-focused informational booths to of about 54,000 passenger vehicles.40 able, and more abundant. For example, between promote awareness of and progress toward 1977 and 2007, efficiency-enhancing technoloSummary Data Table This year, we again reported several categoLilly’s companywide energy goal. gies reduced the carbon footprint per kilogram ries of Scope 3 GHG emissions, as included ABOUT THIS REPORT in the Summary Data Table on page 89 (and of beef produced by 18 percent, while also In 2012, Lilly’s energy use totaled 10,900,000 million BTUs, almost 1 percent more than not included in the graph on page 83). We are decreasing related water usage by 14 percent and Global Reporting Initiative index associated land usage by 34 percent.41 2011 (see graph). Since 2007, our energy committed to continually expanding the scope United Nations Global Compact Index intensity per square foot of facility space and quality of our disclosure in this area. To To increase awareness about these benefits, we has improved by nearly 18 percent, exceedsupport these efforts, we have initiated a analyze and communicate improved animal proing the company’s goal of a 15 percent project to gather energy and GHG data from ductivity and health as a means to reduce GHG reduction by 2013.38 our key suppliers to more effectively assess emissions as well as impacts on natural resource our Scope 3 emissions and overall carbon use (such as land, water, and fossil fuels). We footprint. share this information with food animal industry organizations; various non-governmental organi38 Following World Resources Institute guidance, progress toward environmental goals is reported on an adjusted basis accounting for mergers, acquisitions, and divestitures, as appropriate, to ensure comparability, unless stated otherwise. zations; multistakeholder groups, such as Global 39 This goal covers Lilly’s Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions per square foot of facility space. Roundtable for Sustainable Beef, U.S. Dairy Innovation Center, and National Pork Board; as 40 According to www.epa.gov/cleanenergy/energy-resources/refs.html. well as companies operating within the sector’s 41 Capper, J. July 2010. “Comparing the Environmental Impact of the U.S. Beef Industry in 1977 to 2007.” Abstract presentation at the American Society of Animal Science meetings. retail supply chain. PAGE 82 LILLY 2012-13 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Message from the ceo Designing Green Buildings in Decreasing Environmental Impacts 2012 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY HIGHLIGHTS $ 137 MILLION ENERGY COSTS LILLY SAVED FROM 2007-2012 Kinsale, Ireland In Kinsale, Ireland, Lilly’s new biotech facility, currently under construction, is in Sales and Marketing We use a scorecard at our sales and marketing affiliates in the Americas, Canada, and Europe About Lilly designed for the manufacture of future to identify and assess progress toward reduc$ biomedicines. The structure will have about ing energy use, water consumption, waste, and Our Approach to Corporate equivalent to 47 percent more floor space than the curtransportation. Each year, these affiliates look Responsibility A Stack of rent largest biotech building at the site, and for opportunities to enhance their environmenoriginally had been projected to increase tal performance by identifying and planning Improving Global Health $100 bills the site’s total energy use and costs by new projects and setting targets across more Researching and Developing taller as much as 70 percent. In the conceptual than 40 dimensions. Between 2012 and 2013, Innovative Medicines than phase, Lilly global facilities delivery group, the project’s architecture and engineering 10 of 25 affiliates moved up a performance level (the levels include Beginner, Follower, Conducting Our Business Ethically firms, and Kinsale site engineers partnered Good Citizen, Leader, and Best in Class). Eighty and Transparently the statue of to integrate energy efficient design considpercent of affiliates have returned a scorecard Supporting Strong Workplace liberty erations throughout the project. As part of this process, the extended team identified showing improved performance through new green initiatives. (ground to torch) Practices and documented 135 energy conservaAcross our sales and marketing organization measures, of which nearly 50 were Engaging with Patients tion, we are converting part of our fleet to TDI ultimately approved. These collectively (Turbocharged Direct Injection) clean diesel Lilly around the world Lilly’s 2013 CDP climate change disclosure have the potential to reduce annual GHG models to leverage our purchasing power and score increased to 86, compared to the emissions by more than 9,300 metric tonnes decrease our GHG emissions. At the same FOSTERING Environmental average score of 82 in the healthcare secCO2e and decrease water use by nearly 30 time, we are saving money and still providing sustainability tor and our company’s score of 65 in 2012. million liters yearly, compared to original high-quality fleet options with outstanding Our performance band also improved, projections, while saving an estimated $1.7 safety ratings for our representatives. ComOur Commitment and Approach from C to B. See Lilly’s recent CDP climate million in energy costs annually. pared with a similar-sized gasoline engine, change submission for additional detail Product Stewardship these diesel engines deliver about 30 percent about the company’s approach and perforbetter fuel economy and reduce CO2e emis• Performance in Operations mance in this area. sions by a corresponding amount. Summary Data Table Reducing Energy Use in Augusta, Georgia Progress toward goal—ghg emissions ABOUT THIS REPORT Lilly continually looks for opportunities, METRIC TONneS CO2e/1,000 SQuare FEET 2,000,000 90 Global Reporting Initiative index both large and small, at all of our facilities 1,750,000 80 to reduce energy use. For example, Lilly’s United Nations Global Compact Index 70 METRIC TONneS CO2e manufacturing site in Augusta, Georgia, 1,500,000 2013 optimized the operation of its air compresGOAL 60 1,250,000 sors to virtually eliminate unneeded use 50 1,000,000 during the facility’s fermentation cycles. 40 These improvements have reduced energy 750,000 30 use related to compressed air by 43 percent. 500,000 20 Based on 2012 production volumes, the 250,000 10 project decreased energy use by 4.5 million kWh, while saving $290,000 during the year. 0 0 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Production needs are projected to increase significantly over the next five years, which Scope 1 Scope 2 GHG Emissions Intensity will result in even greater savings. PAGE 83 LILLY 2012-13 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Message from the ceo Water Use In 2012 and 2013, we used the World creates a local business-continuity plan Business Council for Sustainable Developthat considers many possible sources of 2012 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Water remains an important issue for Lilly. ment’s Global Water Tool© and the United business interruption, including water HIGHLIGHTS Predicted future regional water scarcity, Nations Environment Programme’s Vital availability. increased costs, and climatic changes have Water Graphics tool to evaluate water About Lilly only strengthened our commitment to use Learn more in Lilly’s 2013 CDP water stress-related risks to our internal and water wisely. submission. Our Approach to Corporate externally sourced operations. Using busiResponsibility Manufacturing operations represent a ness-interruption criteria, we estimated In 2012, Lilly’s water intake42 was 12.4 majority of the water consumed by Lilly. In potential financial impacts for each type of billion liters, a greater than 9 percent Improving Global Health our operations that produce injectable prodrisk and assessed whether it is significant decrease from 2011 and a nearly 37 ucts, we require exceptionally high-quality to the company. percent reduction since 2007 (see graph Researching and Developing below). Major contributing factors to the Innovative Medicines water. In our utility operations, we use We evaluated more than 100 contract substantial amounts of water for cooling 2012 reduction included implementation of manufacturing sites to determine busiand to support steam boilers. Some sites a product-recovery process at one of our Conducting Our Business Ethically ness risk related to potential extended and Transparently have updated to waterless cooling systems, bulk production sites as well as pumping droughts. This analysis covered a range and others have installed technology that improvements at another bulk producof operations, from bulk active ingredient Supporting Strong Workplace reclaims water for this purpose. To a lesser tion location. An extended heat period that production sites that require the largest Practices extent, we consume water for domestic caused water shortages at some sites in amounts of water to packaging sites that uses in our offices (such as cafeterias, bathNorth America during the last two years consume the least. Through this assessEngaging with Patients rooms, and landscaping). Our Engineering also motivated more efficient water use. ment, we determined that extended Technical Center helps our sites to identify periods of drought should not significantly Lilly around the world water-saving technologies. Additionally, impact our business. We use inventory FOSTERING Environmental capital is available to sites through Lilly’s management practices to mitigate these sustainability Energy, Waste, Water, and Natural Resource types of risks, and each of our facilities Use Reduction Fund. Our Commitment and Approach progress toward goal—water intake Product Stewardship 20 • Performance in Operations Our 18 decrease Summary Data Table in water 16 intake from 14 BILLION LITERS 2007 through 2012 was ABOUT THIS REPORT 12 7.2 billion liters, Global Reporting Initiative index which would fill 10 NEARLY 2,900 8 United Nations Global Compact Index olympic-sized 6 4 swimming pools 2 0 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 GOAL (updated) 42 “Water intake” is the total amount of water coming into a facility, including water pumped from bodies of surface water and groundwater, as well as water provided by a utility. It includes water used in processes, utilities, and other ancillary operations, such as irrigation. The term does not include groundwater pumped solely for treatment to satisfy regulatory actions or requirements (e.g., remediation activities where the water is not used for another purpose). Values do not include the water extracted from wells solely for the purpose of lowering the groundwater table(s) to maintain the physical and structural integrity of building foundations. PAGE 84 LILLY 2012-13 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Message from the ceo These enhancements, which required no Waste capital investment, have increased softener 2012 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY performance from poor to near-optimum Lilly uses the following hierarchy to manage HIGHLIGHTS waste: and reduced water usage by more than 4.9 About Lilly million liters per year. Additionally, the site • Eliminate or reduce the amount of waste increased throughput between systems produced, Our Approach to Corporate regenerations, improved the predictability of when regenerations would occur, and • Reuse materials when possible (often Responsibility increased overall system capacity. These multiple times), Improving Global Health results will help reduce or avoid future • Recycle used materials to make new Rain gardens help reduce storm water runoff from hard capital expenditures. products, Researching and Developing surface areas. The team also developed additional recom• Recover energy from waste, Innovative Medicines mendations to further reduce water and salt • Treat waste to reduce toxicity and volume, Conducting Our Business Ethically use, as well as waste generation and operand and Transparently ating costs. Lilly will consider implementing • Send waste to landfill only when the these improvements in coming years. options above are not feasible. Supporting Strong Workplace Practices Improving Storm Water Due to increases in production, total waste Management in Indianapolis, Indiana generation rose by nearly 15 percent from Engaging with Patients 2011 to 2012, to 278,000 metric tonnes (see Lilly has begun capturing 90 percent of the graph on page 86). Specifically, the differLilly around the world rainwater that falls on its headquarters site ence related to increases in fermentation Underground capture and infiltration pipes reduce storm in Indianapolis, Indiana. By retaining water waste and a sizable amount of concrete FOSTERING Environmental on site and letting it seep slowly into the water discharges by 90 percent from parking lots and roofs. sustainability and soil waste associated with construcground, we have reduced the facility’s storm tion at one site, much of which was reused. water impact by 45 million liters annually, Between 2007 and 2012, however, total Our Commitment and Approach Decreasing Water Use which reduces the potential for pollution waste generation decreased by nearly 27 in Augusta, Georgia Product Stewardship and damage to waterways. We accompercent. The reduction is equivalent to the Lilly’s site in Augusta, Georgia, uses three plished this through techniques such as amount of waste that would fill about 10,000 • Performance in Operations water-softening units to treat process directing storm water to underground pipes garbage trucks.43 Summary Data Table water. Employees determined that the that allow the water to naturally infiltrate devices were experiencing inconsistent into the soil instead of entering the city During 2012, Lilly sent 12,300 metric tonnes ABOUT THIS REPORT softener cycles, which decreased system sewer system. We have also implemented of waste to landfill, up from 10,900 metric performance and water-use efficiency. After vegetation-assisted bioretention areas and tonnes in 2011, but approximately 62 perGlobal Reporting Initiative index careful analysis, project team members captured water for use on site in systems cent less than in 2007 (see graph on page adjusted the saline (softener) levels and designed for non-potable water uses. 86).44 During the year, 11 Lilly sites globally United Nations Global Compact Index significantly reduced rinsing times. reported “zero-landfill” status (indicatWatch this video to learn more. ing that they send less than 0.5 percent of generated waste to landfill). 43 This assumes each garbage truck has a capacity of about 10 metric tonnes. 44 These data do not include construction and demolition debris, biosolids from wastewater treatment plants, incinerator ash, coal ash if reused for mine reclamation or road base, and mycelia and urea reused for fertilizer. PAGE 85 LILLY 2012-13 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Message from the ceo waste generation 2012 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY 27% 450,000 25 METRIC TONNES/million $ revenue HIGHLIGHTS 400,000 decrease in total waste generaTion 350,000 20 About Lilly between 2007 and 2012 METRIC TONNES 300,000 Our Approach to Corporate 15 250,000 Responsibility the reduction is EQUIVALENT 200,000 to the amount of waste that 10 Improving Global Health 150,000 would fill about 10,000 100,000 5 Researching and Developing 50,000 Innovative Medicines 0 0 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Conducting Our Business Ethically garbage trucks and Transparently Hazardous Non-Hazardous Waste Generation Waste Generation Waste Generation Intensity Supporting Strong Workplace Practices progress toward goal—waste to landfill Engaging with Patients 35,000 Lilly around the world 30,000 FOSTERING Environmental 25,000 METRIC TONNES sustainability 20,000 Our Commitment and Approach Moving beyond Zero Waste in 15,000 Product Stewardship Surrey, United Kingdom 10,000 • Performance in Operations Lilly’s research and discovery facility in the 5,000 United Kingdom achieved zero-landfill status Summary Data Table in 2011. Building upon this accomplishment, 0 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 in 2012, the facility began to capture officeGOAL ABOUT THIS REPORT based compostable waste streams, redirected (updated) Global Reporting Initiative index certain animal bedding to incineration with energy recovery, and simplified waste-hanBenefitting Schools and Reducing tonnes of free lab equipment and office supplies United Nations Global Compact Index dling methods to enable a more consistent Waste through Teachers Day in to use in their classrooms. The total estiprocess. Among other results, during the Indianapolis, Indiana mated value of items donated was $100,000. year, the site reduced general waste by 6 percent, recycled 96 percent of all waste, and Since 2000, Lilly has assisted Indiana’s schools This event helps reduce our waste sent to landfills, streamlined the number of waste-handling while promoting reuse during our annual while also providing much-needed assistance to methods from 22 to just 6. Due to these “Teachers Day.” In 2013, teachers from 70 help schools stretch budgets and enable teachers efforts, the overall cost per tonne of waste schools around the state “shopped” from about to advance science in their classrooms. disposed decreased by 15 percent. 150 pallets containing more than 20 metric Watch this video to learn more. PAGE 86 LILLY 2012-13 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Message from the ceo Green Procurement other air emissions 2012 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Lilly continues to expand its green procure3,500 HIGHLIGHTS ment efforts to decrease the company’s environmental impacts and support markets 3,000 About Lilly for green products. Office supplies remain 2,500 an area of focus. We offer online purchasOur Approach to Corporate METRIC TONNES ing tools globally that inform employees Responsibility 2,000 who order office supplies if items with Improving Global Health recycled content are available. In 2012, Lilly 1,500 purchased more than 1,900 different office Researching and Developing supply products that contained recycled 1,000 Innovative Medicines material. During the year, an estimated 24 percent of the office supplies Lilly purchased 500 Conducting Our Business Ethically by volume in the state of Indiana qualified as 0 and Transparently “green” compared to 13 percent in 2009.45 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Supporting Strong Workplace We expanded our green procurement Practices program to cover areas such as product SO2 NOx Volatile Organic Compounds Particulate Matter transport, manufacturing, and research. Engaging with Patients In 2012, we transitioned our approach to shipping products related to clinical triBetween 2007 and 2012, our total air emisExamples include the following: Lilly around the world sions (not including GHGs) decreased by als requiring refrigeration from one-way • Guayama, Puerto Rico: Our facility shipping containers to reusable packaging nearly 54 percent, largely driven by changes FOSTERING Environmental maintains about 10 acres within its grounds that provides better thermal protection, is in manufacturing processes. Emissions sustainability as an ecological habitat conservation area easier to pack, and reduces the number of decreased in all categories except VOCs, to help preserve and restore the vibrant containers. These enhancements reduce which rose due to increased production Our Commitment and Approach plant life found in this location. The space environmental impacts while decreasing rates. Reductions in SO2 and NOx emissions is divided into three areas that focus on Product Stewardship costs to ship products to clinics. were driven by the divestiture of Tippecaeducation, reforestation, and preservation. noe Laboratories in 2009, as well as energy • Performance in Operations For more information about Lilly’s efforts in • Augusta, Georgia: Our manufacturefficiency improvements and changes to the Summary Data Table product packaging, see page 79. company’s fuel mix during the period. ing site manages a 650-acre farm in Burke County that is used for continABOUT THIS REPORT gency application of some of the facility’s Other Air Emissions Biodiversity nitrogen-rich by-products (which are Global Reporting Initiative index typically used by local farmers). The locaLilly tracks emissions of compounds Lilly has a long history of working collabthat can affect air quality. Currently, the tion’s Wildlife Habitat Team focuses on United Nations Global Compact Index oratively to protect habitat and reduce the company’s most significant air emissions, enhancing biodiversity at the site through impact of our operations on ecosystems. other than greenhouse gases, include the implementation of its wildlife manWe pursue a decentralized approach, volatile organic compounds (VOCs) as well agement plan. Ongoing projects include recognizing that biodiversity challenges and as sulfur dioxide (SO2) and nitrogen oxides improving Northern Bobwhite quail opportunities vary based on location, and we (NOx) resulting from the combustion of habitat, managing a 1.5-acre pollinator engage in conservation projects and habitat natural gas, oil, and coal. garden, and maintaining a waterfowl feedenhancements at many sites worldwide. We ing area. The team also collaborates with also support conservation efforts in the comthe local community on various outreach munities where our facilities are located. programs. 45 According to the definition of environmentally preferable at www.epa.gov/epp/pubs/guidance/finalguidanceappx.htm#AppendixA. PAGE 87 LILLY 2012-13 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Message from the ceo Using environmental capability assessments, we apply statistical process-control 2012 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY techniques to drive our key environmenHIGHLIGHTS tal compliance-related processes to be in control, compliant, and continuously About Lilly improving. We routinely assess nearly Our Approach to Corporate 50 environmental processes and use the Responsibility results to improve our control strategies. Reportable permit-limit exceedances Improving Global Health decreased from 43 in 2007 to eight in 2012, Researching and Developing an 81 percent reduction that equals the Innovative Medicines lowest level ever reported by the company. Of the exceedances in 2012, six were Conducting Our Business Ethically related to water, and two were related to air. and Transparently Waterfowl enjoy the wetlands area at our Clinton, Indiana, facility, which is open to the public. See the Summary Data Table on page 89 Supporting Strong Workplace for detail. Practices • Clinton, Indiana: In early 2011, we study of Kinsale Harbour with the UniverEngaging with Patients launched a project that showcases the sity of Galway. This study, which is ongoing, Environmental Awards and compatibility of conservation and farming, has suggested that the minor changes while protecting more than 300 acres at observed in the aquatic life on the seafloor Recognition Lilly around the world our manufacturing facility in this locaof the harbour are associated with storm FOSTERING Environmental tion. Lilly’s site is part of a 20-mile long events rather than treated wastewater sustainability conservation easement established in colfrom our facility. laboration with local conservation partners Our Commitment and Approach to permanently protect land along the Wabash River (see photo). Environmental Compliance Product Stewardship Climate change disclosure score of 86, • Indianapolis, Indiana: In 2012, we Lilly’s policy is to comply with applicable performance band B (2013) • Performance in Operations health, safety, and environment regulafocused our annual Global Day of Service Summary Data Table (GDOS) work near our global headquartions wherever we do business. Where ters along six waterways as part of a existing laws and regulations are inadeABOUT THIS REPORT larger citywide collaborative known as quate, Lilly applies its standards consistent Reconnecting to Our Waterways. Nearly with this policy. We believe compliance is Global Reporting Initiative index fundamental to maintaining our facilities’ 8,000 Lilly employees and other volunListed as the 77th greenest U.S. company (2012) teers participated. Learn more on page 70. “right-to-operate” in their local commuUnited Nations Global Compact Index nities. (For more information about our We also work to improve our understandHSE policies, standards, and management ing of the company’s impact on biodiversity. systems, see page 75.) If it is determined For example, Lilly has operated a bulk that we are out-of-compliance, we work to manufacturing site in Kinsale, Ireland, remedy the situation as quickly as possince 1982 and discharges treated wastesible and to continuously improve our Recognition of carbon-management prowater to the Kinsale Harbour. In 1978, performance. grams for United Kingdom operations (2012) we commissioned a long-term ecological PAGE 88 LILLY 2012-13 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Message from the ceo Fostering Environmental Sustainability Summary Data Table46,47 2012 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY HIGHLIGHTS 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 About Lilly Energy Use Our Approach to Corporate Energy Consumption (million BTUs) 12,900,000 11,900,000 11,300,000 11,200,000 10,800,000 10,900,000 Responsibility Energy Intensity (million BTUs/1,000 square feet) 594 561 541 521 495 488 Improving Global Health Energy Intensity (million BTUs/million $ revenue) 692 581 519 486 445 482 Direct Energy Consumption (million BTUs) 4,670,000 4,440,000 4,240,000 4,200,000 4,000,000 3,900,000 Researching and Developing Innovative Medicines Coal (million BTUs) 1,410,000 1,290,000 1,140,000 1,280,000 1,170,000 690,000 Natural Gas (million BTUs) 2,480,000 2,360,000 2,420,000 2,230,000 2,300,000 2,770,000 Conducting Our Business Ethically and Transparently Fuel Oil (million BTUs) 768,000 770,000 653,000 676,000 459,000 435,000 Liquid Propane (million BTUs) 18,600 22,300 29,600 23,000 15,900 700 Supporting Strong Workplace Practices Indirect Energy Consumption (million BTUs) 8,240,000 7,400,000 7,100,000 7,000,000 6,830,000 7,000,000 Purchased Electricity (million BTUs) 4,630,000 4,540,000 4,330,000 4,310,000 4,200,000 4,320,000 Engaging with Patients Purchased Steam (million BTUs) 2,990,000 2,610,000 2,310,000 2,200,000 2,240,000 2,200,000 Lilly around the world Purchased Chilled Water (million BTUs) 619,000 254,000 449,000 491,000 445,000 491,000 FOSTERING Environmental Greenhouse Gas Emissions sustainability Greenhouse Gas Emissions (Scope 1 and Scope 2) 1,840,000 1,760,000 1,670,000 1,630,000 1,570,000 1,580,000 Our Commitment and Approach (metric tonnes CO2e) Product Stewardship Scope 1 527,000 505,000 485,000 476,000 437,000 415,000 Scope 2 1,310,000 1,230,000 1,180,000 1,160,000 1,130,000 1,160,000 Performance in Operations Greenhouse Gas Emissions Intensity (metric tonnes 84.7 83.4 79.3 75.9 71.8 70.5 • Summary Data Table CO2e/1,000 square feet) ABOUT THIS REPORT Greenhouse Gas Emissions Intensity (metric tonnes 98.7 86.4 76.2 70.8 64.6 69.7 CO2e/million $ revenue) Global Reporting Initiative index Scope 3 Emissions (not included in metrics above)48 United Nations Global Compact Index Employee Business Travel (personal car, taxi, rental 65,000 65,000 63,000 72,000 67,000 99,000 car, rail, and air travel) (metric tonnes CO2e) Employee Commuting (metric tonnes CO2e) 76,000 76,000 76,000 72,000 71,000 72,000 46 Data may be revised compared to prior reports due to changes in calculation methodology and other factors. Some segments do not add up to totals due to rounding. 47 Following World Resources Institute guidance, energy use, greenhouse gas emissions (except Scope 3), waste, and water-use data are reported on an adjusted basis accounting for mergers, acquisitions, and divestitures, as appropriate, to ensure comparability, unless stated otherwise. 48 These data do not include sales-force travel using company vehicles, use of Lilly aircraft, or product distribution with Lilly vehicles. Those items are Scope 1 and included in the data above. PAGE 89 LILLY 2012-13 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Message from the ceo 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2012 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Product Transportation and Distribution (contracted) 30,000 26,000 39,000 43,000 50,000 45,000 HIGHLIGHTS (metric tonnes CO2e) About Lilly Waste Generated in Operations (metric tonnes CO2e) 103,000 83,000 60,000 68,000 72,000 74,000 Non-Kyoto Compound Emissions (refrigerants, VOCs, 14,000 33,000 15,000 23,000 55,000 15,000 Our Approach to Corporate Responsibility etc.) (metric tonnes CO2e) Water Use Improving Global Health Water Intake (billion liters)49 19.6 17.6 13.2 12.8 13.3 12.4 Researching and Developing Innovative Medicines Municipal (billion liters) 6.5 6.6 6.0 Surface (billion liters) 0 0 0 Conducting Our Business Ethically and Transparently Groundwater (billion liters) 6.3 6.8 6.5 Water Intensity (million liters/million $ revenue) 1.05 0.864 0.605 0.555 0.549 0.549 Supporting Strong Workplace Practices Waste Engaging with Patients Waste Generation (metric tonnes) 379,000 387,000 287,000 228,000 242,000 278,000 Hazardous Waste Generation (metric tonnes) 53,800 55,500 46,400 31,000 22,000 23,900 Lilly around the world Non-Hazardous Waste Generation (metric tonnes) 325,000 331,000 241,000 197,000 220,000 254,000 FOSTERING Environmental Waste Generation Intensity 20.3 19.0 13.1 9.88 10.7 12.3 sustainability (metric tonnes/million $ revenue) Our Commitment and Approach Waste Disposition Product Stewardship Beneficially Reused (metric tonnes) 253,900 198,700 201,600 148,800 176,200 211,400 Recycled (includes incineration with energy recovery) 31,500 102,000 28,800 45,000 35,500 33,600 Performance in Operations (metric tonnes) • Summary Data Table Treated (includes incineration without energy recovery) 49,100 49,700 35,600 12,300 13,300 13,600 ABOUT THIS REPORT (metric tonnes) Landfilled (metric tonnes) 44,700 32,600 21,200 22,100 17,000 19,800 Global Reporting Initiative index Landfilled (related to goal) (metric tonnes) 50 32,000 22,300 14,800 15,900 10,900 12,300 United Nations Global Compact Index 49 “Water intake” as used in evaluating our progress toward our water-reduction goal is the total amount of water coming into a facility, including water pumped from bodies of surface water and groundwater, as well as water provided by a utility. It includes water used in processes, utilities, and other ancillary operations, such as irrigation. The term does not include groundwater pumped solely for treatment to satisfy regulatory actions or requirements (e.g., remediation activities where the water is not used for another purpose). Values do not include the water extracted from wells solely for the purpose of lowering the groundwater table(s) to maintain the physical and structural integrity of building foundations. Data for breakdown of water intake by source are not available prior to 2010. 50 Our former and current waste-to-landfill goals do not include construction and demolition debris, biosolids from wastewater treatment plants, incinerator ash, coal ash if reused for mine reclamation or road base, and mycelia and urea reused for fertilizer. PAGE 90 LILLY 2012-13 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Message from the ceo 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2012 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Other Air Emissions HIGHLIGHTS Volatile Organic Compound Emissions (metric tonnes) 526 560 549 626 735 606 About Lilly Particulate Matter (metric tonnes) 311 293 384 200 146 115 Our Approach to Corporate SO2 Emissions (metric tonnes) 3,137 3,188 2,589 2,015 1,660 973 Responsibility NOx Emissions (metric tonnes) 1,205 1,322 1,125 877 794 708 Improving Global Health Ozone-Depleting Substances Potential 795 2,808 790 790 3,718 1,168 (kg CFC-11 equivalent) Researching and Developing Innovative Medicines Environmental Compliance Conducting Our Business Ethically Reportable Permit-Limit Exceedances51 43 27 16 11 8 8 and Transparently Number of Significant Spills 52 0 0 0 0 0 0 Supporting Strong Workplace Environmental Fines Paid ($) $96,900 $0 $12,000 $1,200 $340,00053 $732 Practices Energy, WASTE, WATER, and Natural RESOURCE USE Reduction Fund Engaging with Patients Expenditures ($ millions) $0 $6.5 $5.7 $4.1 $0.8 $1.1 Lilly around the world FOSTERING Environmental sustainability Our Commitment and Approach Product Stewardship Performance in Operations • Summary Data Table ABOUT THIS REPORT Global Reporting Initiative index United Nations Global Compact Index 51 Lilly classifies an event as a reportable permit-limit exceedance if it involves an exceedance of a numeric permit or license limit that must be reported to the regulatory authority. The reporting may be immediate (e.g., within 24 hours) or in a routine compliance report. These exceedances do not necessarily result in harm to people or the environment. 52 “Significant spill” in this report refers to any unexpected, unintended, abnormal, or unapproved dumping, leakage, drainage, seepage, discharge, or other loss of a substance that resulted in damage to the environment (i.e., human health, aquatic life, or wildlife) or a material event requiring reporting to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. Damage means the actual or imminent alteration of the environment so as to render the environment harmful, detrimental, or injurious. 53 During routine inspections in 2006 and 2007, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency identified potential weaknesses in our leak detection and repair program at our Lilly Technology Center facility in Indianapolis, Indiana. In addition, in 2006 we voluntarily reported to the state and city environmental agencies that we had exceeded an annual limit for air emissions. In response to these events, we have implemented numerous corrective actions and enhancements to our environmental programs. We paid a penalty of $337,500 in early 2011 to settle the case. There was no harm done to employees, neighbors, or the environment as a result of these events. PAGE 91 LILLY 2012-13 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ABOUT THIS REPORT Message from the ceo 2012 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY HIGHLIGHTS About Lilly Our Approach to Corporate This is Eli Lilly and Company’s 2012-2013 Corporate Responsibility data to collect and report. For example, following guidance from the World Resources Responsibility Report, which highlights progress and initiatives since our 2011-2012 Institute, we report progress toward environImproving Global Health Corporate Responsibility Update. mental goals on an adjusted basis accounting for mergers, acquisitions, and divestitures as Researching and Developing It also serves as Lilly’s annual Communication on Progress for the appropriate, to ensure comparability, unless Innovative Medicines stated otherwise. Our global health, safety, United Nations Global Compact (UNGC), of which Lilly is a signatory. and environment management system is Conducting Our Business Ethically The UNGC is a strategic policy initiative for businesses that are comcertified by an independent, accredited auditor and Transparently mitted to aligning their operations and strategies with 10 universally in accordance with the American Chemistry Council’s Responsible Care Management Supporting Strong Workplace accepted principles in the areas of human rights, labor, the environSystem requirements. Practices ment, and anti-corruption. An index to the UNGC indicators in this We welcome feedback on this report, as Engaging with Patients report can be found on page 108. More information about the UNGC it helps us to improve future reports. Lilly around the world can be found at: www.unglobalcompact.org. Please contact: Data and other updates contained in this Our financial information, which is prepared Robert Smith FOSTERING Environmental report are focused on the 2012 calendar according to the generally accepted accountSenior Director, Corporate Responsibility, and sustainability year and include global operations, unless ing principles (GAAP) in the United States, is President, The Eli Lilly and Company Foundation ABOUT THIS REPORT otherwise noted. We also discuss data and subject to our own internal accounting control E-mail: robsmith@lilly.com trends from previous years, where relevant, systems and to external third-party audits. (All and include some significant events and dollar amounts given are in U.S. dollars.) In Phone: 317-276-2000 Global Reporting Initiative index initiatives that occurred in the first half of addition to those external third-party financial United Nations Global Compact Index 2013. This report does not include joint venaudits, Bureau Veritas provided independent, tures, partially owned subsidiaries, leased third-party verification of greenhouse gas facilities, or outsourced operations. emissions data for Scopes 1, 2, and 3. Bureau Veritas also verified the percentage decrease This report is aligned with the Global from both the baseline year (2007) and from Reporting Initiative (GRI) G3 Guidelines, 2011 compared to 2012 for the following at the B application level. The GRI is a metrics: energy intensity, waste to landfill, and network-based organization that produces water intake. Otherwise, the content and data a comprehensive sustainability reporting in this report have not been externally verified. framework widely used around the world. An index to GRI indicators in this report Lilly follows structured processes to collect, is included on page 93. More information evaluate, and calculate the data we report, about the GRI and the application levels can to ensure appropriateness and accuracy. We be found at www.globalreporting.org. consider external standards in deciding what PAGE 92 LILLY 2012-13 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Global Reporting Message from the ceo 2012 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY HIGHLIGHTS About Lilly Our Approach to Corporate Responsibility Initiative index Improving Global Health Researching and Developing Innovative Medicines Standard Disclosures Part I: Profile Disclosures Conducting Our Business Ethically Reporting Key: Fully Partially Not and Transparently Supporting Strong Workplace Profile Practices Disclosure Description Reported Cross-reference/Direct answer Engaging with Patients 1. Strategy and Analysis Lilly around the world 1.1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organization. page 2 FOSTERING Environmental 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities. pages 2, 7 sustainability 2012 10-K, pages 16-19 ABOUT THIS REPORT 2. Organizational Profile Global Reporting Initiative index 2.1 Name of the organization. page 5 United Nations Global Compact Index 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services. page 5 PAGE 93 LILLY 2012-13 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Message from the ceo Profile 2012 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Disclosure Description Reported Cross-reference/Direct answer HIGHLIGHTS 2.3 Operational structure of the organization, including main divisions, The Board of Directors of Eli Lilly and About Lilly operating companies, subsidiaries, and joint ventures. Company are elected by the company’s shareholders to oversee the Our Approach to Corporate actions and results of the company’s Responsibility management. Lilly’s operational structure includes five main business Improving Global Health units: Lilly Bio-medicines, Lilly Diabetes, Lilly Emerging Markets, Lilly Researching and Developing Oncology, and Elanco Animal Health. Innovative Medicines Lilly Research Labs and the DevelopConducting Our Business Ethically ment Center of Excellence compose and Transparently the research and development areas of the organization. Manufacturing Supporting Strong Workplace and Quality have responsibility for Practices producing medicines and monitoring safety throughout our products Engaging with Patients lifecycle. Additionally, the company is supported by general and adminLilly around the world istrative capabilities including key organizations such as finance, inforFOSTERING Environmental sustainability mation technology, corporate affairs, and legal. ABOUT THIS REPORT For more information about our products and partners, consult the 2012 Global Reporting Initiative index Annual Report on Lilly.com. United Nations Global Compact Index 2.4 Location of organization's headquarters. page 5 2.5 Number of countries where the organization operates, and names of page 5 countries with either major operations or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability issues covered in the report. 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form. page 5 2.7 Markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, page 5, 40 and types of customers/beneficiaries). 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization. page 5 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding size, structure, page 52 or ownership. 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period. pages 3, 41, 51, 53, 62, 88 3.1 Reporting period (e.g., fiscal/calendar year) for information provided. page 92 PAGE 94 LILLY 2012-13 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Message from the ceo Profile 2012 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Disclosure Description Reported Cross-reference/Direct answer HIGHLIGHTS 3.2 Date of most recent previous report (if any). page 92 About Lilly 3.3 Reporting cycle (annual, biennial, etc.). page 92 Our Approach to Corporate 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents. page 92 Responsibility Improving Global Health 3.5 Process for defining report content. page 7 Researching and Developing 3.6 Boundary of the report (e.g., countries, divisions, subsidiaries, leased page 92 Innovative Medicines facilities, joint ventures, suppliers). See GRI Boundary Protocol for further guidance. Conducting Our Business Ethically and Transparently 3.7 State any specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the report page 92 (see completeness principle for explanation of scope). Supporting Strong Workplace Practices 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, page 92 outsourced operations, and other entities that can significantly affect Engaging with Patients comparability from period to period and/or between organizations. Lilly around the world 3.9 Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations, including pages 73, 74, 89-90 assumptions and techniques underlying estimations applied to the comFOSTERING Environmental pilation of the Indicators and other information in the report. Explain any sustainability decisions not to apply, or to substantially diverge from, the GRI Indicator Protocols. ABOUT THIS REPORT 3.10 Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information provided pages 8, 60, 89 Global Reporting Initiative index in earlier reports, and the reasons for such re-statement (e.g.,mergers/ acquisitions, change of base years/periods, nature of business, measureUnited Nations Global Compact Index ment methods). 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, No significant changes. boundary, or measurement methods applied in the report. 3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures in the report. pages 93-107 3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance page 92 for the report. 4. Governance, Commitments, and Engagement 4.1 Governance structure of the organization, including committees under the Proxy Statement, pages 11-16 highest governance body responsible for specific tasks, such as setting strategy or organizational oversight. 4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an Proxy Statement, page 7 executive officer. PAGE 95 LILLY 2012-13 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Message from the ceo Profile 2012 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Disclosure Description Reported Cross-reference/Direct answer HIGHLIGHTS 4.3 For organizations that have a unitary board structure, state the number Proxy Statement, pages 11-12 About Lilly of members of the highest governance body that are independent and/or non-executive members. Our Approach to Corporate Responsibility 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recommendations Shareholders can communicate with or direction to the highest governance body. the board of directors in writing via Improving Global Health the corporate secretary’s office. In general, formal mechanisms are not Researching and Developing in place for employees to make recInnovative Medicines ommendations directly to the board; however, the leadership team encourConducting Our Business Ethically ages employees to provide feedback and Transparently to management through a variety of Supporting Strong Workplace communication channels, including Practices a compliance hotline, internal town hall style meetings, and on the CEO’s Engaging with Patients blog. In addition, under the company’s processes for reporting suspected Lilly around the world ethics or compliance breaches, under certain circumstances designated FOSTERING Environmental employees are allowed or required to sustainability report the suspected breach directly to the relevant committee of the ABOUT THIS REPORT board of directors. Global Reporting Initiative index 4.5 Linkage between compensation for members of the highest governance Proxy Statement, pages 23-24; United Nations Global Compact Index body, senior managers, and executives (including departure arrangeThere is no explicit linkage between ments), and the organization's performance (including social and compensation and social and environmental performance). environmental performance 4.6 Processes in place for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts of page 34 interest are avoided. Proxy Statement, pages 14-15 4.7 Process for determining the qualifications and expertise of the members Proxy Statement, page 17 of the highest governance body for guiding the organization's strategy on economic, environmental, and social topics. 4.8 Internally developed statements of mission or values, codes of conduct, pages 35, 72-73 and principles relevant to economic, environmental, and social perfor2012 Annual Report, page 2 mance and the status of their implementation. Proxy Statement, page 14 PAGE 96 LILLY 2012-13 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Message from the ceo Profile 2012 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Disclosure Description Reported Cross-reference/Direct answer HIGHLIGHTS 4.9 Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing the organipage 6 About Lilly zation's identification and management of economic, environmental, and social performance, including relevant risks and opportunities, and Our Approach to Corporate adherence or compliance with internationally agreed standards, codes of Responsibility conduct, and principles. Improving Global Health 4.10 Processes for evaluating the highest governance body's own perforProxy Statement, page 17 mance, particularly with respect to economic, environmental, and social Researching and Developing performance. Innovative Medicines 4.11 Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is page 80 Conducting Our Business Ethically addressed by the organization. and Transparently 4.12 Externally developed economic, environmental, and social charters, principages 3, 10, 11, 25, 38, 46, 73 Supporting Strong Workplace ples, or other initiatives to which the organization subscribes or endorses. Practices 4.13 Memberships in associations (such as industry associations) and/or pages 44, 48 Engaging with Patients national/international advocacy organizations in which the organization: * Has positions in governance bodies; * Participates in projects or commitLilly around the world tees; * Provides substantive funding beyond routine membership dues; or * Views membership as strategic. FOSTERING Environmental sustainability 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization. page 40 ABOUT THIS REPORT 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage. page 39 Global Reporting Initiative index 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagepages 39-40 ment by type and by stakeholder group. United Nations Global Compact Index 4.17 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder pages 39-40 engagement, and how the organization has responded to those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting. PAGE 97 LILLY 2012-13 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Message from the ceo Standard Disclosures Part II: Disclosures on Management Approach (DMAs) 2012 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Reporting Key: Fully Partially Not HIGHLIGHTS G3 DMA Description Reported Cross-reference/Direct answer About Lilly DMA EC Disclosure on Management Approach-Economic Our Approach to Corporate Responsibility Economic performance page 8 Improving Global Health 2012 10-K, page 2, 23-38 2012 Annual Report, Executive Letter Researching and Developing Innovative Medicines and Financial Highlights Market presence pages 8, 10, 12 Conducting Our Business Ethically and Transparently Indirect economic impacts pages 67-68 Supporting Strong Workplace DMA EN Disclosure on Management Approach-Environmental Practices Materials pages 76-79 Engaging with Patients Energy pages 76, 81-83 Lilly around the world Water pages 76, 84-85 FOSTERING Environmental sustainability Biodiversity pages 87-88 ABOUT THIS REPORT Emissions, effluents and waste pages 76, 80, 81-83, 85-87 Global Reporting Initiative index Products and services pages 77-80 United Nations Global Compact Index Compliance page 88 Transport page 83 Overall pages 72-76 DMA LA Disclosure on Management Approach-Labor Practices Employment pages 49-50 Labor/management relations page 50 Occupational health and safety pages 58-59 PAGE 98 LILLY 2012-13 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Message from the ceo G3 DMA Description Reported Cross-reference/Direct answer 2012 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY HIGHLIGHTS Training and education pages 50-51 Diversity and equal opportunity pages 54-57 About Lilly DMA HR Disclosure on Management Approach-Human Rights Our Approach to Corporate Responsibility Investment and procurement practices pages 45-46 Improving Global Health Non-discrimination pages 54, 56 Researching and Developing Freedom of association and collective bargaining page 50 Innovative Medicines Child labor page 46 Conducting Our Business Ethically and Transparently Forced and compulsory labor page 46 Supporting Strong Workplace Security practices Practices Indigenous rights Engaging with Patients DMA SO Disclosure on Management Approach-Society Lilly around the world Community page 66 FOSTERING Environmental sustainability Corruption pages 34, 36-37 Public policy page 43 ABOUT THIS REPORT Anti-competitive behavior Global Reporting Initiative index Compliance pages 34-35 United Nations Global Compact Index DMA PR Disclosure on Management Approach-Product Responsibility Customer health and safety pages 32-33 Product and service labelling page 33 Marketing communications pages 33, 37 Customer privacy pages 37-38 Compliance pages 34, 37 PAGE 99 LILLY 2012-13 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Message from the ceo Standard Disclosures Part III: Performance Indicators 2012 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Reporting Key: Fully Partially Not HIGHLIGHTS Profile About Lilly Disclosure Description Reported Cross-reference/Direct answer Our Approach to Corporate Economic Responsibility Economic performance Improving Global Health EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed, including revenues, page 8 Researching and Developing operating costs, employee compensation, donations and other community Innovative Medicines 2012 10-K, investments, retained earnings, and payments to capital providers Item 8 beginning on page 40 and governments. Conducting Our Business Ethically and Transparently EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the page 82 organization’s activities due to climate change. Supporting Strong Workplace See Lilly’s 2013 CDP climate change Practices submission for additional detail. Engaging with Patients EC3 Coverage of the organization’s defined benefit plan obligations. 2012 10-K, page 73 Lilly around the world EC4 Significant financial assistance received from government. FOSTERING Environmental Market presence sustainability EC5 Range of ratios of standard entry level wage compared to local minimum ABOUT THIS REPORT wage at significant locations of operation. Global Reporting Initiative index EC6 Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on locally-based suppliers at significant locations of operation. United Nations Global Compact Index EC7 Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior management hired from the local community at significant locations of operation. Indirect economic impacts EC8 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services pages 10-11, 15, 68, 69 provided primarily for public benefit through commercial, in-kind, or pro bono engagement. EC9 Understanding and describing significant indirect economic impacts, page 67 including the extent of impacts. Environmental Materials EN1 Materials used by weight or volume. PAGE 100 LILLY 2012-13 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Message from the ceo Profile 2012 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Disclosure Description Reported Cross-reference/Direct answer HIGHLIGHTS EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials. page 79 About Lilly Energy Our Approach to Corporate EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source. pages 81-83, 89 Responsibility EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source. pages 81-83, 89 Improving Global Health EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements. pages 81-83 Researching and Developing Innovative Medicines EN6 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy based products and services, and reductions in energy requirements as a Conducting Our Business Ethically result of these initiatives. and Transparently EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and reductions achieved. Supporting Strong Workplace Practices Water Engaging with Patients EN8 Total water withdrawal by source. pages 84-85, 90 Lilly around the world EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water. page 84 FOSTERING Environmental EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused. sustainability Biodiversity ABOUT THIS REPORT EN11 Location and size of land owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, proGlobal Reporting Initiative index tected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas. United Nations Global Compact Index EN12 Description of significant impacts of activities, products, and services on pages 80, 87-88 biodiversity in protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas. EN13 Habitats protected or restored. pages 87-88 EN14 Strategies, current actions, and future plans for managing impacts pages 87-88 on biodiversity. EN15 Number of IUCN Red List species and national conservation list species with habitats in areas affected by operations, by level of extinction risk. Emissions, effluents and waste EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight. pages 82-83, 89 EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight. pages 82, 89-90 EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions achieved. pages 81-83 PAGE 101 LILLY 2012-13 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Message from the ceo Profile 2012 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Disclosure Description Reported Cross-reference/Direct answer HIGHLIGHTS EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight. page 91 About Lilly EN20 NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions by type and weight. pages 87, 91 Our Approach to Corporate Responsibility EN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination. Improving Global Health EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method. pages 85-86, 90 Researching and Developing EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills. page 91 Innovative Medicines EN24 Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste deemed hazConducting Our Business Ethically ardous under the terms of the Basel Convention Annex I, II, III, and VIII, and and Transparently percentage of transported waste shipped internationally. Supporting Strong Workplace EN25 Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of water bodies and Practices related habitats significantly affected by the reporting organization’s discharges of water and runoff. Engaging with Patients Products and services Lilly around the world EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and services, and pages 77-80 FOSTERING Environmental extent of impact mitigation. sustainability EN27 Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are page 80 ABOUT THIS REPORT reclaimed by category. Global Reporting Initiative index Compliance United Nations Global Compact Index EN28 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary pages 88, 91 sanctions for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations. Transport EN29 Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other pages 83, 89-90 goods and materials used for the organization’s operations, and transporting members of the workforce. Overall EN30 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type. pages 76, 91 Social: Labor Practices and Decent Work Employment LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, and region. page 50 PAGE 102 LILLY 2012-13 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Message from the ceo Profile 2012 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Disclosure Description Reported Cross-reference/Direct answer HIGHLIGHTS LA2 Total number and rate of employee turnover by age group, gender, and About Lilly region. Our Approach to Corporate LA3 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to tempopages 49-50 Responsibility rary or part-time employees, by major operations. Labor/management relations Improving Global Health LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements. page 50 Researching and Developing Innovative Medicines LA5 Minimum notice period(s) regarding significant operational changes, page 52 including whether it is specified in collective agreements. Conducting Our Business Ethically and Transparently Occupational health and safety Supporting Strong Workplace LA6 Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint managementLilly does not formally measure the Practices worker health and safety committees that help monitor and advise on percentage of our total workforce occupational health and safety programs. represented in joint managementEngaging with Patients worker health and safety committees. Lilly around the world An estimated 80 percent of our global workforce members utilize health FOSTERING Environmental and safety committees to assist in the sustainability management of local occupational health and safety programs. ABOUT THIS REPORT LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and page 60 Global Reporting Initiative index number of work-related fatalities by region. United Nations Global Compact Index LA8 Education, training, counseling, prevention, and risk-control programs in page 61 place to assist workforce members, their families, or community members regarding serious diseases. LA9 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions. page 50 Training and education LA10 Average hours of training per year per employee by employee category. page 50 LA11 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the pages 50-51 continued employability of employees and assist them in managing career endings. LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career develpage 50 opment reviews. PAGE 103 LILLY 2012-13 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Message from the ceo Profile 2012 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Disclosure Description Reported Cross-reference/Direct answer HIGHLIGHTS Diversity and equal opportunity About Lilly LA13 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per page 57 Our Approach to Corporate category according to gender, age group, minority group membership, and Responsibility other indicators of diversity. Improving Global Health LA14 Ratio of basic salary of men to women by employee category. Social: Human Rights Researching and Developing Innovative Medicines Diversity and equal opportunity Conducting Our Business Ethically HR1 Percentage and total number of significant investment agreements that and Transparently include human rights clauses or that have undergone human rights screening. Supporting Strong Workplace Practices HR2 Percentage of significant suppliers and contractors that have undergone None of Lilly’s suppliers and conscreening on human rights and actions taken. tractors have undergone a formal Engaging with Patients screening on human rights, though Lilly around the world in April 2013, Lilly enhanced its baseline HSE questionnaire to elicit FOSTERING Environmental information from suppliers identified sustainability as “higher risk.” This update included questions about compliance with ABOUT THIS REPORT human rights and ethics expectations. We are currently incorporating Global Reporting Initiative index these expectations into our on-site assessments of suppliers. Page 46 United Nations Global Compact Index contains a discussion on human rights in the supply chain. HR3 Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures concernEvery year, Lilly employees spend ing aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations, including the approximately 40,000 hours—a percentage of employees trained. minimum of one hour per person— undergoing mandatory training on our code of conduct. The Red Book covers a broad spectrum of basic human-rights issues. Non-discrimination HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and actions taken. PAGE 104 LILLY 2012-13 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Message from the ceo Profile 2012 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Disclosure Description Reported Cross-reference/Direct answer HIGHLIGHTS Freedom of association and collective bargaining About Lilly HR5 Operations identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association Our Approach to Corporate and collective bargaining may be at significant risk, and actions taken to Responsibility support these rights. Child labor Improving Global Health HR6 Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labor, page 46 Researching and Developing and measures taken to contribute to the elimination of child labor. Innovative Medicines Forced and compulsory labor Conducting Our Business Ethically and Transparently HR7 Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or page 46 compulsory labor, and measures to contribute to the elimination of forced Supporting Strong Workplace or compulsory labor. Practices Security practices Engaging with Patients HR8 Percentage of security personnel trained in the organization’s policies All security personnel worldwide, Lilly around the world or procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant including contractors in the United to operations. States, are required to undergo our FOSTERING Environmental sustainability code of conduct training, which covers topics directly related to Lilly’s ABOUT THIS REPORT core values of integrity, excellence, and respect for people. The trainGlobal Reporting Initiative index ing is not specifically directed at the topic of human rights but is closely United Nations Global Compact Index associated. Security personnel participate in diversity training to sensitize them to the uniqueness of each individual worker and the value they bring to our workforce. Security personnel are also expected to act in a professional and unbiased manner. Corresponding positive performance is valued and appropriately recognized. Indigenous rights HR9 Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous people and actions taken. PAGE 105 LILLY 2012-13 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Message from the ceo Profile 2012 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Disclosure Description Reported Cross-reference/Direct answer HIGHLIGHTS Social: Society About Lilly Community Our Approach to Corporate SO1 Nature, scope, and effectiveness of any programs and practices that page 52 Responsibility assess and manage the impacts of operations on communities, including entering, operating, and exiting. Improving Global Health Corruption Researching and Developing Innovative Medicines SO2 Percentage and total number of business units analyzed for risks related pages 34-36 to corruption. Conducting Our Business Ethically and Transparently SO3 Percentage of employees trained in organization’s anti-corruption policies pages 34-36 and procedures. Supporting Strong Workplace Practices SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption. Engaging with Patients Public policy Lilly around the world SO5 Public policy positions and participation in public policy development and pages 43-44 lobbying. FOSTERING Environmental sustainability SO6 Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to political parties, politipages 43-44 cians, and related institutions by country. ABOUT THIS REPORT Anti-competitive behavior Global Reporting Initiative index SO7 Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and United Nations Global Compact Index monopoly practices and their outcomes. Compliance SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary page 91 sanctions for non-compliance with laws and regulations. Social: Product Responsibility Customer health and safety PR1 Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products and pages 32-33 services are assessed for improvement, and percentage of significant products and services categories subject to such procedures. PAGE 106 LILLY 2012-13 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Message from the ceo Profile 2012 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Disclosure Description Reported Cross-reference/Direct answer HIGHLIGHTS PR2 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and volunAbout Lilly tary codes concerning health and safety impacts of products and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes. Our Approach to Corporate Responsibility Product and service labelling Improving Global Health PR3 Type of product and service information required by procedures, and pages 32-33 percentage of significant products and services subject to such information Researching and Developing requirements. Innovative Medicines PR4 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and volunConducting Our Business Ethically tary codes concerning product and service information and labeling, by and Transparently type of outcomes. Supporting Strong Workplace PR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction, including results of surveys Practices measuring customer satisfaction. Engaging with Patients Marketing communications Lilly around the world PR6 Programs for adherence to laws, standards, and voluntary codes related pages 37-38 to marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and FOSTERING Environmental sponsorship. sustainability PR7 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and volunABOUT THIS REPORT tary codes concerning marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship by type of outcomes. Global Reporting Initiative index Customer privacy United Nations Global Compact Index PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data. Compliance PR9 Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations concerning the provision and use of products and services. PAGE 107 LILLY 2012-13 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT United Nations Global Message from the ceo 2012 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY HIGHLIGHTS About Lilly Our Approach to Corporate Responsibility Compact Index Improving Global Health Researching and Developing Innovative Medicines UNGC PRINCIPLE INFORMATION IN REPORT Conducting Our Business Ethically Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally Managing Our Supply Chain, and Transparently proclaimed human rights. page 46 Supporting Strong Workplace Principle 2: Businesses should make sure they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Managing Our Supply Chain, Practices page 46 Engaging with Patients Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition Supporting Strong Workplace of the right to collective bargaining. Practices, page 50 Lilly around the world Principle 4: Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. Managing Our Supply Chain, FOSTERING Environmental page 46 sustainability Principle 5: Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labour. Managing Our Supply Chain, ABOUT THIS REPORT page 46 Global Reporting Initiative index Principle 6: Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of Diversity and Inclusion, page 54 employment and occupation. United Nations Global Compact Index Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. Fostering Environmental Sustainability, page 72 Principle 8: Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. Fostering Environmental Sustainability, page 72 Principle 9: Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally Fostering Environmental friendly technologies. Sustainability, page 72 Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion Conducting Our Business Ethically and bribery. and Transparently, page 34 PAGE 108 LILLY 2012-13 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
