Responsible Business Report 2012 Human capital development ........................................................ 43 CHAPTER 1 Health and safety................................................................................54 Introduction Work-life balance.................................................................................56 About this report................................................................................. 04 President & CEO’s message........................................................... 05 CHAPTER 5 UN Global Compact ......................................................................... 06 Environment CWT and Responsible Business ....................................................10 CWT’s environmental approach ................................................... 58 CHAPTER 2 CWT’s carbon management project ........................................... 59 CWT at a Glance Reducing CWT’s greenhouse gas emissions and managing energy consumption .......................................... 64 More environmental best practices in CWT geographies .... 66 CWT at a glance .................................................................................. 12 Enabling customers to be more environmentally friendly .... 68 CHAPTER 3 CHAPTER 6 Ethics, Compliance, Data Protection Responsible Products and Services Business continuity ......................................................................... 73 Our commitment to ethical business practices ..................... 17 CWT Travel Stress Index ................................................................ 77 Code of Business Ethics and Conduct ...................................... 19 CWT Meeting Optimizer ................................................................ 79 Prevention of corruption and anti-competitive practices .... 20 Global data protection and privacy program .......................... 26 CHAPTER 7 Community Involvement CHAPTER 4 Human Resources Our community involvement ........................................................ 81 Programs .............................................................................................. 82 CWT core values................................................................................. 30 Communication, employee dialogue and employee engagement ....................................................................................... 32 CHAPTER 8 CONTENTS Diversity and equal opportunity ................................................... 37 Glossary Talent acquisition .............................................................................. 41 Contents CHAPTER 1 Introduction About this report President & CEO’s message UN Global Compact CWT and Responsible Business Contents Chapter 1 Introduction 2012 Responsible Business Report CHAPTER 1 XX About this report B eginning this year, overlooked. The purpose of this Carlson Wagonlit initial publication is to serve as a Travel (CW T) will springboard as we progressively publish an annual consolidate and enhance our About this report xx Responsible commitments and initiatives. Business (RB) report, detailing the company’s commitments, initiatives This document also highlights how and progress. CWT has always we are progressively integrating the sought to act responsibly and over United Nations Global Compact xx President & CEO’s message the years, some countries have (UNGC)’s Ten Principles into our Human Rights reported individually on Responsible activities. In this way, it constitutes our Business. This document constitutes annual Communication on Progress the company’s first consolidated, report, as required by the UNGC. Human Resources Community Involvement corporate-level RB report. The report’s main objective is to review The report is available on CWT’s corporate website. For environmental CWT CWT Responsible CWT’s RB achievements and sample reasons, the report is not being Responsible xx UN Global Compact good practices. It covers existing printed. We recommend that Business Businessdomains domains xx policies and programs in the following you consider the environment widely-accepted Responsible before printing a copy for your Business domains -RB governance, own use. Responsible Products Responsible Business ethics and business behavior, & Services Governance human resources, environment, This first publication represents responsible products and services, a major step forward for CWT. and community involvement. The We welcome your feedback, report will serve as a baseline for suggestions and questions. To learn xx CWT and Responsible future efforts by examining where more about Responsible Business at xx Business we stand today and highlighting our CWT or to get involved, please contact Environment Ethics & Business Behavior various strengths and challenges. us through: responsiblebusiness@ carlsonwagonlit.com This report is not exhaustive. Some local initiatives may have been Copyright © 2013 CWT 4 Contents Chapter 1 Introduction 2012 Responsible Business Report XX CHAPTER 1 President & CEO’s message About this report xx I ’m pleased to announce that Carlson Wagonlit Travel has published its first global Responsible Business Report, a milestone in a long history of In today’s world, being a responsible corporate global citizen is a clear business imperative as well; customers, suppliers and other stakeholders increasingly take a company’s ResClearly, this is not a commitment made only in words; it’s a business imperative. Our customers, suppliers, business partners, communities and other stakeholders are operating in a socially responsible way. ponsible Business stance into acincreasingly making ethics and sustainability This comprehensive report provides count when making a decision to do a holistic and global view of CWT’s business with that company, or not. part of their decision making. They are looking President & CEO’s for a partner with a strong and proven track xx achievements, policies and practices Increasingly, customers and organizarecord. message in this area. tions want to work with companies that have a proven track record in In 2012, CWT signed the United conducting business ethically and Nations Global Compact (UNGC); sustainably. Douglas Anderson, President & CEO by joining, we agree to incorporate the Global Compact’s 10 Principles At CWT we strongly believe in Resrelated to human rights, labor, enviponsible Business and we are now xx UN Global Compact ronment and anti-corruption into holding ourselves accountable to an xx our operations and strategies. In even higher standard than before. fact, these 10 Principles are complementary to our own Code of Conduct I invite you to take a few moments to and core values. Becoming a signareview our 2012 Responsible Busitory of the Global Compact therefore ness Report, which reaffirms why deepens our existing commitment to CWT is a respected and trusted leaResponsible Business. der in business travel management. xx CWT and Responsible xx Business Douglas Anderson, President & CEO, Carlson Wagonlit Travel Copyright © 2013 CWT 5 Contents Chapter 1 Introduction 2012 Responsible Business Report XX CHAPTER 1 UN Global Compact xx About this report By signing the UN Global Compact in 2012, CWT formally committed to conduct its business in line with the Global Compact principles in the fields of environment, labor, human rights and anti-corruption. As a Global Compact signatory, we are making it known that we believe in the Ten Principles and the long-term benefits they yield. President & CEO’s message xx T he signing of the Global Compact signals our determination to operate in a way that nurtures respect, dignity and sustainability xx in all aspects of our business. As such, the UN Global Compact UN Global Compact xx constitutes an extension of our ongoing Responsible Business efforts, initiatives and goals. It supports our resolve to meet the increasingly high expectations for Responsible Business among our local and global customers. Joining the Global Compact strengthens our commitment to Responsible Business. It deepens and reaffirms our xx CWT and Responsible belief in operating in a way that nurtures respect, dignity xx Business and sustainability. The Ten Principles will become an integral part of our strategy, culture and day-to-day activities. Douglas Anderson, President & CEO Copyright © 2013 CWT 6 Contents Chapter 1 Introduction 2012 Responsible Business Report XX CHAPTER 1 UN Global Compact Ten Principles The UN Global Compact is the world’s largest voluntary corporate responsibility initiative, with over 10,000 business participants and other stakeholders from 140 countries. Since the year 2000, it has been a strategic policy initiative Throughout the report, for businesses committed to aligning their operations and strategies with Ten Principles in the areas of human we will be showing the xx About this report rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption. “We Support UNGC” logo beside initiatives and best practices that exemplify HUMAN RIGHTS how we in CWT live out these principles. President xx & CEO’s message Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. LABOR Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; xx Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor; UN Global Compact xx Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labor; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. ENVIRONMENT Principles 7, 8, 9 ENVIRONMENT For more about the United Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Nations Global Compact see Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and xx CWT and Responsible www.unglobalcompact.org xx Business Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. ANTI-CORRUPTION Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Copyright © 2013 CWT 7 Contents Summary Chapter 1 Introduction 2012 Responsible Business Report XX CHAPTER 1 Ten principles aligned to CWT core values The UN Global Compact and its Ten Principles not only support our Responsible Business strategy, but also complement the CWT core values that guide our conduct every day. xx About this report Customer Care: Putting the Commitment to Excellence: Cultural Diversity: Fostering needs of clients first and striving to Continuously seeking higher levels respect and team spirit in the President xx & CEO’s message continuously provide an outstanding of performance. workplace, embracing and level of service. leveraging the multicultural essence of the company, and providing equal The UN Global Compact is universally opportunities to talented individuals. Responsible Business especially recognized and respected. reducing environmental impact Becoming a signatory puts a global has become a priority for CWT spotlight on our commitment Many of the Ten Principles speak to and for most of our customers to ethics, human rights, human the importance of treating people with xx and suppliers, many of whom resources, responsible purchasing, respect and dignity – the foundation UN Global Compact xx are also signatories to the Global community involvement and of any organization that values Compact. Our shared participation and protection of the environment. diversity. CWT’s participation in Responsible Business effor ts Joining the ranks of the Global the Global Compact underscores can only help in advancing our Compact advances CWT on its path our commitment to eliminating customers’ Responsible Business toward best-in-class Responsible discrimination and working against strategies and goals. Business. unethical business practices. CWT and Responsible Business Copyright © 2013 CWT 8 Contents Chapter 1 Introduction 2012 Responsible Business Report XX CHAPTER 1 Reliability: Being a dependable Entrepreneurial Spirit: Integrity: Building productive, and trustworthy business partner, Approaching new challenges with longstanding relationships by committed to offering industrycreativity, resourcefulness and agility, being truthful and promoting open leading products and services. reacting quickly and effectively to communications. provide innovative solutions. CWT leaders support our Global Joining the Global Compact is, at its xx About this report Compact commitment by By incorporating the Global Compact core, a significant commitment to integ rating its Ten Principles principles into our business, integrity: how we conduct business, into business strategy, day-toCWT is not only deepening its and how we treat one another, our day operations and culture, Responsible Business efforts, but clients and the communities in as well as incorporating creating the opportunity to gain which we operate. As an adherent, President xx & CEO’s message them into top-level decisionnew perspectives and innovative CWT commits to report annual making processes. Every year, our practices from fellow signatories. progress openly and honestly and Responsible Business report will to uphold standards of responsibility present CWT’s engagement and that are universally accepted and efforts to employees, customers respected. and other stakeholders. xx UN Global Compact xx xx CWT and Responsible xx Business Copyright © 2013 CWT 9 Contents Chapter 1 Introduction 2012 Responsible Business Report XX CHAPTER 1 CWT and Responsible Business A comprehensive approach C reated in 2012, the stakeholders. This “materiality In many places, CWT employees xx About this report CWT Responsible analysis,“ conducted in 2012, have already implemented solid RB Business team covers lays the groundwork for CWT’s practices and undertaken noteworthy all aspects of Corporate Responsible Business strategy. RB initiatives. We will build upon Responsibility. The It takes into account emerging these valuable achievements by team’s mission is first to define and R B trends, regulatory issues, expanding and sharing them across President xx & CEO’s message coordinate an overall corporate environmental and societal concerns the company and around the world. strategy, and subsequently to and stakeholder expectations. It launch the appropriate initiatives includes input from customers, to implement it. The objective peer reports, industry and trade is to transition to a structured, association studies, benchmarks Our objective is to instill Responsible comprehensive approach companyand interviews with both internal and Business behavior at the core of our wide and to instill corporate external stakeholders. Internationally day-to-day activities and to transition responsibility at the core of our accepted standards and practices to a structured, comprehensive xx business. Achieving this goal will have also been taken into account, approach company-wide. UN Global Compact xx involve for example the creation of including the ISO 26000 standard, a network of Responsible Business the Global Reporting Initiative and the Françoise Grumberg, Senior Director, contributors and ambassadors UN Global Compact Ten Principle. Global Responsible Business throughout the company’s various departments and regions, as well With the groundwork completed, as a Responsible Business steering CWT is now setting priorities for committee. various RB challenges. At the same time, a dashboard is being CWT and Responsible xx To evaluate the Responsible established to manage the process We at CWT are fully cognizant of our responsibilities to all of Business xx our stakeholders, from employees and clients to partners and Business challenges facing the with all our internal stakeholders the communities where we do business. As we move forward, company, CWT has identified those and to measure progress over time. one of our key Responsible Business goals is to continue to issues which represent the most Particular attention is being paid to develop programs and services to ensure that stakeholders’ significant risks and opportunities meeting stakeholder expectations, sustainability expectations are tracked and addressed. for both the company and its which are increasingly high. Copyright © 2013 CWT 10 Contents Chapter 1 Introduction 2012 Responsible Business Report XX CHAPTER 1 Responsible Business governance At CWT, Responsible Business is a business imperative. It is how we operate with full attention to ethics, respect for our people and for the environment, while taking into account our customers’ and other stakeholders’ expectations. Our executive team oversees Responsible Business issues, providing impetus, setting broad strategy and following progress through regular updates. xx About this report T he position of Head of Global Responsible Business was created Executive Team President xx & CEO’s message to ensure a comprehensive approach to Douglas Anderson Kelly Kuhn Berthold Trenkel President & CEO President Asia Pacific EVP Traveler Responsible Business. It reports to & Transaction Services the EVP Global Human Resources and serves as the central coordinator Håkan Ericsson Pierre Milet President Americas (incl. North EVP & CFO for all Responsible Business efforts. Cathy Voss America and Latin America) The position consists in defining EVP Global Program Solutions David Moran and Meetings & Events strategic direction and developing Jerry Hogan EVP Global Marketing and xx specific programs and initiatives EVP & General Counsel Enterprise Strategy UN Global Compact xx across the company, in partnership Andrew Waller with experts in Responsible Jean-Luc Duchemin Kevin O’Connor President EMEA and Global Business areas and representatives EVP Global Human Resources EVP & Chief Information Officer Partners Network of the corporate functions and the three geographical Regions. A Responsible Business governance, reflecting the Responsible Experts in company’s matrix organizaGlobal Responsible CWT and Responsible xx Business each of the tion, will manage Responsible Responsible Business Business xx Ambassadors Responsible Business programs and initiatives, Business Ambassadors per Corporate Business track progress and share best Director per Region Function domains practices. Copyright © 2013 CWT 11 Contents CHAPTER 2 CWT at a Glance Contents Chapter 2 CWT at a Glance 2012 Responsible Business Report CHAPTER 2 CWT at a Glance Key facts & figures About us 2012 Key figures: 62 million A global leader in business travel By leveraging the talents and management, Carlson Wagonlit know-how of our people and Travel (CWT) helps companies and providing leading-edge technology, online and off-line transactions Nearly 20,000 organizations of all sizes optimize we help clients around the world their travel programs and deliver drive savings while delivering best-in-class service and assistance service and enhancing security and employees worldwide to travelers. sustainability. A diverse client portfolio of large corporations, CWT provides a total business travel CWT also plays a major role in small and mid-sized companies, government package. Customers can rely on us for meetings and events management, institutions and non-governmental organizations. air and ground transportation, hotel providing strategic know-how and Clients include one-third of the accommodation, and other travel a host of services and technology Effective Travel Management services. Thanks to our worldwide solutions that help companies Fortune Global 100 companies Eight keypurchasing levers to power, clients enjoy optimize the a travel optimize program their investments. lowest possible available rates. US$ 27.7 billion Our structure in sales generated by wholly owned operations and joint ventures Carlson Wagonlit Travel has two 97% shareholders: Carlson, a global hotel, restaurant and travel company, holds 55 percent of the company’s shares and Chase Travel Investment, client retention rate an affiliate of JPMorgan Chase & Co., holds 45 percent. Copyright © 2013 CWT 13 Contents Chapter 2 CWT at a Glance 2012 Responsible Business Report CHAPTER 2 Our products & services CWT offers flexible solutions that generate value for clients of all sizes. Working closely with customers to fully understand their goals, CWT provides products and services that balance and meet the needs of travel managers, business travelers, procurement professionals and C-level executives. These include: Business Travel CWT Meetings & Events Business travel is a key driver for getting things done. Providing end-to-end solutions for any meeting or event CWT organizes itself around Traveler Services and imaginable from creating a unique theme, to designing Program Services, with a variety of products and training sessions and team-building activities, we know services tailored to the specific needs of our travelers how to tie it all together to produce the desired results. and travel buyers. Traveler Services Dedicated sector: CWT Energy, Event Creation & Execution Strategic Meetings Ensuring travelers receive the Resources & Marine Helping clients give recipients Management support they need to be productive Helping these industries’ leading memorable experiences to deliver Assisting organizations holistically and safe during their trips. players get to and from their ma ximum value from every manage their meetings & events work sites safely and efficiently, occasion. using best procurement practices Program Services with specialized assistance from while enabling planners to deliver Giving travel buyers access to professionals dedicated to this Venue Sourcing unique meetings & events that information and tools to quickly type of travel Entry point for many into Strategic fulfill business objectives. adapt to ever-evolving internal and Meetings Management; tackling external dynamics. efforts to deliver savings, decrease risk, and keep meeting planners focused on results. Safety and Security Copyright © 2013 CWT 14 Contents Chapter 2 CWT at a Glance 2012 Responsible Business Report CHAPTER 2 CWT Voted “Most Admired Travel Management Company” by Readers of The Beat In September 2012, CWT was again named the “Most Admired Travel Management Company” by readers of The Beat, a leading online industry publication. This was the third consecutive time and fourth overall that CWT received the award. The Beat Readers’ Choice Awards, presented during The Beat Live conference, are based on a survey asking readers from around the world to select the company they most admire for its policies, management style and service to business clients in various supplier segments. CWT wins TTG Travel Award for Best Corporate Travel Agency in Asia-Pacific In October 2012, CWT was awarded the prestigious title of “Best Corporate Travel Agency 2012” in the TTG Travel Awards for 2012. This is the third time that CWT has received this award over the past decade. The announcement was made at the 23rd Annual TTG Travel Awards Ceremony & Gala Dinner held in Bangkok, Thailand. Since 1989, the annual TTG Travel Awards have recognized the best of the Asia-Pacific travel industry. The awards, organized by TTG Asia, honor top-performing organizations that have consistently proven to the industry their commitment to service excellence. CWT’s Partner in the Philippines, Rajah Travel, was also a winner, recognized as the Philippines’ Best Travel Agency. Copyright © 2013 CWT 15 Contents CHAPTER 3 Ethics, Compliance, Data Protection Our commitment to ethical business practices Code of Business Ethics and Conduct Prevention of corruption and anti-competitive practices Global data protection and privacy program for processing travel data Contents Chapter 3 Ethics, Compliance, Data Protection 2012 Responsible Business Report CHAPTER 3 Our commitment to Our commitment ethical business practices to ethical business Through internal ethics & compliance programs and policies, as well as practices external advocacy by joining internationally-recognized initiatives, CWT seeks to ensure the company consistently conducts business in an ethical way. T he CWT compliance management system is designed to prevent and detect violations of law, regulations and company policy and Code of Business to promote an ethical business culture across the organization. To Ethics and Conduct bring these goals to life, CWT has implemented a comprehensive Ethics & Compliance program that is consistent with best practice standards and evolving legal requirements. Our Ethics & Compliance management system includes but is not limited to: It all starts with integrity. We will succeed only A compliance governance Multiple compliance if we do what we promise, do what is right, structure, with senior management communication mechanisms, and we are open, transparent, and trustworthy. Prevention of corruption and involvement and oversight including, where allowed by laws It's very important to me personally that everyone and regulations, an anonymous in the company understand that the first principle anti-competitive practices Policies and procedures that ethics and compliance reporting is to do what is right; everything after that will fall into address specific areas of concern system dedicated to CWT’s place. business Dedicated compliance oversight Douglas Anderson, President and CEO functions and staffing Targeted, risk-based compliance monitoring and auditing Global data protection Multi-faceted training and education programs A protocol for responding promptly and privacy program to detected problems and implementing corrective action Copyright © 2013 CWT 17 Contents Chapter 3 Ethics, Compliance, Data Protection 2012 Responsible Business Report CHAPTER 3 A Corporate Compliance program 2012 Achievements serves as the backbone to a corporation’s overall integrity. The program helps to detect and Our commitment Nomination in March 2012 of a Global Compliance Leader responsible for the design, implementation and oversight of prevent violations of law, respond to ethical business to potential issues, proactively CWT’s compliance program. practices deter problematic behaviors and Launch of process to assign regional heads of compliance. actions, as well as reduce the likelihood of unethical activity by In 2013, employees will have Code of Business Ethics & employees, partners, contractors, Conduct Overview training available in 8 languages, with the officers and directors. objective to achieve 100% completion by July 2013. Code of Business Ethics and Conduct We joined TRACE International in June 2012. TRACE Lisa Beth Lentini, Vice President International is a non-profit membership association that Global Compliance pools resources to provide practical and cost-effective antibribery compliance solutions for multinational companies and their commercial intermediaries. An internal survey shows that, as of May 2012, 98% of Key compliance areas employees worldwide had reviewed CWT’s Code of Business Ethics and Conduct. As part of our continuous improvement Code of Business Ethics and Data privacy Prevention of corruption and efforts, in 2013 the Code of Business Ethics and Conduct Conduct anti-competitive practices acknowledgment will be part of the training on the Code. Competition/Anti-trust laws Anti-bribery/Anti-corruption Whistleblower reporting Trade sanctions Gifts, hospitality and Anti-money laundering entertainment Global data protection Payment Card Industry Anti-fraud and privacy program compliance Copyright © 2013 CWT 18 Contents Chapter 3 Ethics, Compliance, Data Protection 2012 Responsible Business Report CHAPTER 3 Code of Business Our commitment Ethics and Conduct T to ethical business he CWT Code of The CWT Code of Business Ethics in accordance with the spirit of are required to review the Code practices Business Ethics and and Conduct provides the principles the Code. The Code also prohibits of Business Ethics and Conduct Conduct serves as and policies that govern numerous retaliation against any employee and acknowledge their review the cornerstone ethical and legal issues. These who in good faith reports suspected and agreement to abide by its of the company’s range from legal and financial violations. terms. Understanding of the Code is Ethics & Compliance program integrity to conflicts of interest, further reinforced through mandatory and establishes the company’s confidentiality and data protection/ The Code has been translated into Ethics and Integrity Overview core values, ethical standards and privacy, employee and client 22 languages and is posted on our training as well as other specialized Code of Business expectations for its employees. relations, suppliers, competitive Intranet site, which also provides training in key compliance areas. Ethics and Conduct “Since its inception, Carlson practices, environment, prevention links to additional resources. The In 2013, we intend to offer all of Wagonlit Travel has earned an of corruption, and guidelines on Code is posted on our global our global employees Code of excellent reputation based on high corporate gifts. All employees are website in English for external Business Ethics and Conduct standards of business ethics and expected to understand and act review. All employees worldwide Overview training. conduct. The CWT Code of Business Ethics and Conduct serves as a useful reference to maintain these principles and guide us when the Prevention of corruption and right choices aren’t clear,” says CWT anti-competitive practices President and CEO Doug Anderson. “Every member of the CWT Board of Directors and the global leadership team is fully committed to conducting CWT’s business in accordance with the Code and Global data protection in helping to set the tone for our company. We are all individually and privacy program responsible for following both the Code and CWT policies.” Copyright © 2013 CWT 19 Contents Chapter 3 Ethics, Compliance, Data Protection 2012 Responsible Business Report CHAPTER 3 Prevention of corruption and anti-competitive practices Our commitment to ethical business practices C WT condemns corruption in all its forms and does not tolerate it in its business or in those it does business with. From the confines of our working environments, it is sometimes difficult to grasp the scale of the damage that bribery does to societies. It is not a victimless crime; far from it: Code of Business ANTI-CORRUPTION Ethics and Conduct CWT has designated anti-corruption as one of its highest compliance priorities. Principle 10 The Anti-corruption Compliance Program focuses on ensuring employee awareness of and compliance with applicable anti-corruption laws and Corruption … undermines democracy and the rule company policies. The program’s key elements include: of law, leads to violations of human rights, distorts Ongoing legislative/regulatory monitoring markets, erodes the quality of life and allows organized crime, terrorism and other threats to human security to Regular training of employees and intermediaries flourish. This evil phenomenon is found in all countries Prevention of corruption big and small, rich and poor…corruption hurts the and anti-competitive Annual program self-assessment with related poor disproportionately by diverting funds intended for practices enhancement plans development, undermining a government’s ability to provide basic services, feeding inequality and injustice Annual compliance risk assessment and audits and discouraging foreign aid and investment. Corruption with related mitigation plans is a key element in economic under-performance and a major obstacle to poverty alleviation and development. Regular status reporting to senior management Global data protection and the Board of Directors. and privacy program Kofi Annan, Former UN Secretary-General (UN Press Release, “Secretary-General lauds adoption by General Assembly of United Nations convention against corruption“, Oct. 31, 2003) Copyright © 2013 CWT 20 Contents Chapter 3 Ethics, Compliance, Data Protection 2012 Responsible Business Report CHAPTER 3 International industry initiatives UN Global Compact O C ur membership in TRACE International helps ensure that WT signed the United Nations Global Compact in 2012. The CWT’s anti-corruption policies and practices meet generally world’s largest corporate citizenship and sustainability initiative, Our commitment accepted best practice standards. TRACE International, Inc. the Global Compact commits its members to ethical business is a non-profit membership association that pools resources to 10 universally accepted principles in the to provide practical, cost-effective anti-bribery compliance areas of human rights, labor, environment practices solutions for multinational companies and their commercial intermediaries, and anti-corruption. Regarding corruption, the Global such as sales agents and representatives, consultants, distributors and Compact tenth principle stipulates that “Businesses should suppliers. For CWT, it provides a valuable resource to aid in continuing to work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion improve our corporate compliance efforts. Through our membership, we are and bribery.“ learning more every day about how to work collectively towards the global elimination of bribery. Code of Business Ethics and Conduct Industry associations TRACE International C WT subsidiaries actively participate in numerous national Provides local legal resources, including country-specific Gifts industry groups. On a corporate level, the company sponsors Prevention of corruption & Hospitality Guidelines and examples of best practices the Global Business Travel Association (GBTA, formerly NBTA), and anti-competitive in all regions worldwide. The world’s premier business travel practices Multilingual on-line and in-person anti-bribery training and meetings organization, GBTA provides its network of 21,000 program for member company employees business and government travel and meetings managers, as well as travel service providers, with networking events, news, education & professional Gifts & Hospitality Tracking software development, research and advocacy. To bolster legal efforts to ensure ethical travel industry practices on a worldwide scale, several members of CWT senior management joined IFTTA, the International Forum of Travel and Tourism Global data protection Advocates, in June 2012. and privacy program Copyright © 2013 CWT 21 Contents Chapter 3 Ethics, Compliance, Data Protection 2012 Responsible Business Report CHAPTER 3 Compliance tools C WT policy requires 100% integrity in all business practices. All employees must comply with applicable legislation, regulations Our commitment and company policies. All identified compliance violations are to ethical business addressed swiftly, consistently and fairly. practices The CWT global compliance management system is supported by an underlying corporate culture of integrity where every individual plays a key role in maintaining high standards of ethical conduct. Responsibility is clearly assigned for designing the compliance program, implementing program elements consistent with business needs and ensuring overall accountability for program results across the business. Code of Business Ethics and Conduct CWT compliance policies and procedures define acceptable and prohibited behaviors and provide employees with access to resources available to help them behave in a manner consistent with the company’s values (see pages 8-9 ). Key policies are reviewed periodically and revised as needed to address changes in law and/or the prevailing business environment. Prevention of corruption and anti-competitive practices Integrity is doing the right thing even when no one is looking. By doing the right thing, we build upon a culture of integrity that will be acknowledged by our clients, suppliers and employees. Global data protection and privacy program Jerry Hogan, Executive Vice President & General Counsel Copyright © 2013 CWT 22 Contents Chapter 3 Ethics, Compliance, Data Protection 2012 Responsible Business Report CHAPTER 3 Compliance governance BCC membership structure President & CEO EVP Traveler & Transaction (Chairman of the BCC) Services T EVP & CFO EVP & CIO Our commitment he CWT global compliance governance structure identifies to ethical business responsibility for designing the compliance program, EVP & General Counsel EVP, Global Marketing & implementing program elements consistent with business needs Enterprise Strategy practices and ensuring overall accountability for program results. Global Compliance Leader Regional Business Leaders Internal Auditor Global Responsible Business EVP, Global HR Leader Code of Business Ethics and Conduct Business Conduct Council Key Business Conduct Council responsibilities (BCC) Awareness, support Approval of new policies, in implementation, procedures, and versions of T dissemination and promotion the Code of Business Ethics he Business Conduct Council is the key compliance governance of the company’s overall and Conduct; body within the company. It was created in 2012 to establish and compliance programs, Prevention of corruption assure implementation of high ethical standards and business policies and procedures; Annual assessment of and anti-competitive conduct practices at CWT as well as ensure compliance with the state of compliance practices applicable global regulations company-wide. Collaboration in responding and ethics within the to material reports or organization; and, The BCC is responsible for convening thought leaders in the company inquiries from government to strategically address compliance and ethics issues throughout the or regulatory agencies; Members shall also carry out organization. It ensures management alignment and ultimate accountability such other duties as may be for the development, implementation, and management of compliance Review of complaints required from time to time. Global data protection best practices. In this way, the BCC supports management’s commitment received from internal and to sustain the highest level of trust with our customers and promote legal external sources, including and privacy program compliance and high ethical standards throughout the company. The BCC the Ethics Helpline; meets every other month in advance of Board meetings. Copyright © 2013 CWT 23 Contents Chapter 3 Ethics, Compliance, Data Protection 2012 Responsible Business Report CHAPTER 3 Global compliance leader T he Global Compliance Leader, a position created in 2012, is responsible for the design, implementation and oversight of CWT’s compliance program with ethical business practices and ANTI-CORRUPTION Our commitment legislation, including, for example, anti-corruption, anti-money HUMAN RIGHTS to ethical business LABOR laundering, trade sanctions, competition laws, travel regulations practices and other laws and regulations to which CWT is subject, as well as CWT’s Code of Business Ethics and Conduct. The Vice President ensures that CWT’s CWT Ethics Helpline compliance program meets or exceeds applicable legal and regulatory requirements to enable CWT to grow and continue to serve customers in a prudent and responsible manner. T Code of Business The Global Compliance Leader is responsible for ensuring that CWT’s he ability of employees to raise ethical questions and concerns Ethics and Conduct operations are consistent with a culture of integrity and for supporting and without fear of retaliation is critical to the success of CWT’s overseeing the global CWT Compliance Management System. The Global Compliance Management System. In accordance with local Compliance Leader and the General Counsel present the status of the regulations and requirements, employees may use the company’s company’s Ethics & Compliance program to the Board of Directors at every global Ethics Helpline to report compliance issues, concerns, regularly scheduled board meeting. violations or suspected violations of law or company policy. The Ethics Helpline is available to all employees 24/7. Our “no retaliation” policy prohibits retaliation against employees who report suspected violations in good faith. Prevention of corruption The Ethics Helpline is also available for external and anti-competitive Regional compliance parties to report suspected issues to the practices company, with Helpline numbers available on the company intranet and external websites. I The CWT Ethics Helpline is operated by The n addition to the Global Compliance Leader, four full-time Regional Network, a third-party vendor. Compliance Directors are being appointed to oversee and reinforce compliance policies in each of the company’s three regions. These Global data protection Regional Compliance Directors work closely with the Global Compliance Leader and the compliance organization, as well as with Corporate and privacy program Audit Services and the Legal Department, to deploy CWT’s Compliance program within their regions. Copyright © 2013 CWT 24 Contents Chapter 3 Ethics, Compliance, Data Protection 2012 Responsible Business Report CHAPTER 3 Education & training Internal communications O M ur compliance training program is designed both to any of CWT’s most-important compliance messages to educate employees about their personal and professional employees – including compliance alerts, messages and Our commitment responsibilities under the Code of Business Ethics and articles – are posted and available on the company’s to ethical business Conduct and to instill an ethical culture and a commitment intranet. A robust communication campaign will further to the highest levels of business conduct. The training program reinforce the visibility of the entire Ethics and Compliance practices provides general background covering major compliance and ethics areas to all program and help develop employee awareness. Periodic postings on the employees and specialized training to target audiences based on job function. company’s Yammer social network also strengthen employee engagement CWT has heightened its focus on middle management through enhanced in an ongoing internal compliance and ethics dialogue. communications and targeted training designed to enable supervisors to be more effective compliance role models and ethical leaders. Code of Business New senior managers within the company are assigned the CWT Senior Ethics and Conduct Leadership Integrity Webinar. The on-line training session focuses on such key areas as financial integrity, legal integrity, ethical decision-making and reporting expectations. In addition to legal and financial aspects, the session underlines how ethical behavior cultivates teamwork and productivity and promotes a positive image to employees, suppliers and shareholders. Beginning in 2013, the Global Leadership Conference will incorporate key compliance and ethics messaging for senior leaders within the company. These Prevention of corruption live, interactive sessions will complement the existing on-line training, in-person and anti-competitive training, and regular communications about compliance and ethics. practices All employees will be taking the Code of Business Ethics and Conduct training to support training received to date. Global data protection and privacy program Copyright © 2013 CWT 25 Contents Chapter 3 Ethics, Compliance, Data Protection 2012 Responsible Business Report CHAPTER 3 We are committed to protect the personal data of our clients’ travelers Our commitment to ethical business practices CWT global data protection and privacy program for processing travel data T o provide business CWT has had a Data Protection and Code of Business travel and meetings Privacy Program for over a decade Ethics and Conduct and events services to (see pages 27-28). The program is its corporate clients, reviewed on a regular basis to reflect CWT receives individual changes in the law and in internal data from the client’s travelers. For processes at CWT. The cornerstone instance, CWT holds traveler data in of the program is the CWT Data CWT has had a Data Protection and the database of CWT Portrait, CWT Protection Policy, published on the Privacy Program for over a decade. Program Management Center and CWT global website. The program is reviewed on a regular other global products, as well as its Prevention of corruption basis to reflect changes in the law back-office systems. There are over 60 countries with data and anti-competitive protection/privacy laws. CWT must and internal processes at CWT. The practices Laws known as “data protection” take into account, in particular, the cornerstone of the program is the CWT or “data privacy” seek to safeguard provisions set forth in the US Safe Data Protection Policy , published on the individual data and create obligations Harbor regulations, the Directive of CWT global website. for the collecting and processing of the European Commission, the Indian personal data. By collecting and Privacy Rules, and the laws of Brazil. Benedicte Bayi, Vice President & Assistant General Counsel Global data processing traveler data for purposes Other countries, such as Singapore, protection and of making travel reservations, CWT are enacting new data protection acts. must therefore comply with these Because of changes in existing laws privacy program data protection/privacy laws. and introductions of new laws, CWT regularly reviews its Data Protection and Privacy Program. Copyright © 2013 CWT 26 Contents Chapter 3 Ethics, Compliance, Data Protection 2012 Responsible Business Report CHAPTER 3 Data follows the trip and the traveler Every step of the travel process involves personal traveler data. CWT creates flows of personal traveler data in collecting the personal data, booking the trip, transferring the data to third parties, issuing the tickets and fulfilling, reporting on the travel spend and invoicing the trip. In doing so, CWT takes measures to store, secure, and delete the data. Our commitment to ethical business practices Traveler Data Report Name : _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ Email : _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ CWT consolidates Employee ID : _ _ _ _ _ transactional data Code of Business Cost center # : _ _ _ _ _ with reports through Ethics and Conduct CWT Program Collect Management Center Data is collected to create a Traveler Profile in Invoice CWT Portrait Prevention of corruption Transactional data is Fulfill and anti-competitive included in invoicing Book and other CWT practices 1 Transaction quality back-office tasks Data is transferred to: control & issue ticket create individual travel 2 Send travel reservations for online or document Global data offline bookings; 3 Data transfers for protection and CWT To Go, safety & travel suppliers privacy program security provider ... Copyright © 2013 CWT 27 Contents Chapter 3 Ethics, Compliance, Data Protection 2012 Responsible Business Report CHAPTER 3 5 measures of the CWT data protection program 1 INFORM INDIVIDUALS 4 NOTIFY AUTHORITIES Data protection/privacy policy Data protection/Privacy Our commitment Last revised on 31 May 2012 notifications to ethical business (to include a revision for the US/ In certain countries, CWT notifies Swiss Safe Harbor certification), data protection authorities about the practices the policy is published on the CWT nature of the data processing that global website. The policy informs CWT provides both to its corporate travelers about how CWT collects, clients as well as to its own staff. To processes, stores, transfers and store the personal data of travelers deletes personal data in the travel in data centers in the US, the US management process. affiliates of the CWT group are Safe Code of Business Harbor-certified. Ethics and Conduct 3 GIVE ACCESS 5 – AGREEMENTS Data protection/privacy officers The agreements with CWT clients /representatives typically include data protection Travelers access their data in the and privacy measures. Clients must profiles on CWT Portrait to update authorize CWT to transfer personal their data. CWT has appointed data to client’s suppliers. Prior to data country representatives who may transfer to other third parties (except also be data protection/privacy travel suppliers such as airlines, Prevention of corruption officers. computer reservation systems and anti-competitive 2 PROTECT DATA [GDS], hotels), the third parties practices Information security policies & must sign data transfer agreements standards to protect the personal data received CWT has information security and comply with applicable data measures in place to protect data protection and privacy laws. from unauthorized disclosure. These Global data policies and standards are available protection and on the CWT intranet for Information Security. privacy program Copyright © 2013 CWT 28 Contents 2012 Responsible Business Report XX CHAPTER 4 Human Resources xx CWT core values xx Communication, employee dialogue and employee engagement Diversity and equal opportunity xx Talent acquisition xx Human capital development xx Health and safety xx Work-life balance Copyright © 2013 CWT Contents Chapter 4 Human Resources 2012 Responsible Business Report As a provider of services, CWT recognizes that the quality of the services it delivers to customers CHAPTER 4 depends on the will and ability of its people to satisfy customer needs and expectations. Because the sustainability of the company’s success depends so heavily upon its people, CWT Human Resources CWT core values strategies and programs represent the foundation for the company’s approach to Responsible Business. Communication, employee dialogue and CWT core values employee engagement Core values guiding CWT Values day C B WT has about 20,000 employees in more than 150 countries, ecause CWT has a strong set of values, the company constantly Diversity and but we all have one thing in common: the core values which endeavors to enhance the ways in which all employees equal opportunity are at the heart of everything we do. The core values, along with understand and integrate them into their daily work. Paramount our Code of Business Ethics and Conduct, guide how we work, among these efforts is CWT’s annual Values Day, which creates the choices we make, the relationships we nurture and the an occasion to increase awareness of the CWT core values responsibilities we carry out every day. among employees, understand what employees think about these values, and stimulate a dialogue on how well we are living them. Talent acquisition Customer Care Reliability Putting the needs of clients first and Being a dependable and trustworthy In 2012, Values Day was designed as “an inspiring conversation,“ providing striving to continuously provide an business partner, committed to an opportunity for employees to share experiences and viewpoints and to outstanding level of service. offering industry-leading products acknowledge those people who bring the core values to life each day at CWT. and services. The goal was to focus in particular on helping colleagues connect to the core Human capital Commitment to Excellence values on a personal level and recognizing individuals who exemplify them. development Continuously seeking higher levels Entrepreneurial Spirit The wide variety of events organized at 350 CWT sites around the world was of performance. Approaching new challenges with tied together under the Making Your Connection theme. creativity, resourcefulness and agility, Cultural Diversity reacting quickly and effectively to Fostering respect and a team provide innovative solutions. Health and safety spirit in the workplace, embracing and leveraging the multicultural Integrity essence of the company, and Building productive, longstanding Work-life balance providing equal opportunities to relationships by being truthful and talented individuals. promoting open communication. Copyright © 2013 CWT 30 Contents Chapter 4 Human Resources 2012 Responsible Business Report CHAPTER 4 Living our values A CWT core values s part of this year’s Values Day Bringing the UN Global Compact to life celebration, more Communication, than four dozen employee dialogue and submissions were To highlight the importance of CWT’s recent signing of the United made to “Living Our Values,” a Nations Global Compact initiative, managers explained how employee engagement contest to highlight knowledge of the Global Compact’s Ten Principles relate to the company’s the core values and outstanding “Living Our Values” was part of core values during Values Day 2012. They underlined that the examples of how CWT employees a Yammer Values Day campaign UN Global Compact and its Ten Principles not only support our embody them in their daily business that included creation of a CWT Responsible Business strategy, but also complement the CWT Diversity and lives. As par t of the contest, Values Yammer group and a live core values that guide our conduct every day. equal opportunity employees were invited to submit global chat session (Yammer is photos or videos, poems or stories, our internal social media platform). See page 7 of this report dedicated to the UN Global Compact. or produce art or use their own Some 300 Yammer messages creative idea to demonstrate what were exchanged among group the values mean to them or how members in conjunction with Values Talent acquisition they or their team are living them. Day in 2012. Following the events, a survey was sent to capture main learnings from the site meetings. The success of Values Day 2012 Human capital confirmed the widespread interest development in CWT’s core values demonstrated by employees worldwide during the previous year’s events. The vast majority of CWT’s 20,000 global employees participated in Values Health and safety Day 2012 events. Integrity was cited as the company’s principal value, at the heart of everything we do and Work-life balance setting the framework for the other values. Copyright © 2013 CWT 31 Contents Chapter 4 Human Resources 2012 Responsible Business Report CHAPTER 4 Communication, employee dialogue CWT core values and employee engagement Communication, employee dialogue and employee engagement A comprehensive approach to internal communication CWT’s approach to internal communication aims at ensuring that all Diversity and CWT employees are engaged in relevant, interactive and personalized equal opportunity company communication. The approach strengthens connections among all employees to help drive engagement and alignment. Talent acquisition T he approach focuses in particular on several key areas: continually The communication team is informing all employees about what is happening at CWT and in constantly searching for ways to the industry; ensuring employees have a voice through multiple ensure employees at all levels of the channels including the employee engagement survey and CWT’s organization have a voice, actively Human capital social media platform; and helping the company’s approximately drive CWT’s goals and remain development 2,200 “people managers“ become more effective communicators who energized. Our goal is to ensure facilitate employee dialogue and adapt key messages to local issues and everyone at CWT is informed, engaged environments. and inspired for success. Health and safety Tom Scott, Senior Director, Global Employee Communication Work-life balance Copyright © 2013 CWT 32 Contents Chapter 4 Human Resources 2012 Responsible Business Report CHAPTER 4 Fostering dialogue Social dialogue in Europe C C CWT core values ommunication at CWT focuses both on team members and WT promotes social dialogue with staff representatives, where team leaders as critical audiences for nurturing a company-wide applicable . Topics vary from negotiating agreements on improving dialogue. This involves evaluating managers’ communications work conditions and health & safety, to discussing about Communication, skills and providing training and timely access to information, reorganization, compensation & benefits, company strategy, and employee dialogue and to enable them to communicate effectively and add pertinent ethics & compliance policies. Creation of new initiatives such as local context. work-from-home (on a case-to-case basis, or when and where applicable) are employee engagement also discussed. A community of managers has been created, along with a direct, regular outreach vehicle and a Yammer group for conversation and sharing of best In Europe, for example, and in accordance with the European Directive EC 2009/38 practices. Managers have also been provided with a framework to structure of 6 May 2009, a Special Negotiation Body (SNB) has been temporarily created Diversity and and formalize their communication as well as guidelines, materials and to negotiate about an agreement to establish a standardized process for dialogue equal opportunity regular opportunities for team discussions. with employees within the company. Major internal events have provided the CWT internal communication team Given CWT’s workforce in each European country, the SNB is made up of 26 with opportunities to support managers in conversations with their teams members representing Austria, Belgium, Bulgaria, Czech Republic, Denmark, such as the release of CWT’s New Heights 2015 strategy and Values Day Estonia, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Ireland, Italy, Latvia, Lithuania, Talent acquisition 2012 (see p. 30). Luxembourg, Netherlands, Poland, Romania, Spain, Sweden and United Kingdom. The first meeting between the SNB and CWT Central Management was held on February 29, 2012 in Amsterdam. The outcome of this first meeting was an Reaching out to managers agreement and adoption of internal rules and policies of the SNB by its members. Human capital development Launched in April 2012, Nexus is a monthly on-line publication Reaching travel counselors designed especially for CWT’s ‘people managers.’ In addition to T information on how to become a more effective communicator and leader, Nexus provides access to best practices, tips and templates he company’s networks of communicators continually work with Health and safety that managers can use in their day-to-day dialogue with members managers and leaders to address the specific communication needs of their teams. Created at the same time, the Yammer NEXUS of travel counselors who account for over 60 percent of the total CWT group is a platform providing access to all documents and a way workforce. By cascading information throughout the organization, Work-life balance to exchange ideas with other managers. CWT ensures travel counselors remain up-to-date and engaged during such events as team meetings and via printed or posted notices and email. Copyright © 2013 CWT 33 Contents Chapter 4 Human Resources 2012 Responsible Business Report CHAPTER 4 Providing a consistent Communication training framework for communication T CWT core values he company is launching classroom or online training sessions C and best practice sharing for people managers to ensure that they WT’s approach to communication is based on consistent have a minimum of training on how to be effective communicaCommunication, communication practices throughout the company via a network tors in a global environment, often with geographically dispersed employee dialogue and of communicators and direct communication to employee groups, teams. to ensure all employees have an appropriate level of knowledge employee engagement of CWT, its business and industry. Communication training focuses on such topics as communication principles, gap analysis, building a communication plan, communicating in a global and The framework provides multiple information channels for employees while geographically dispersed environment and practical guidelines for effective providing managers with content and tools for meaningful dialogues with communication. Managers are expected to create and execute an annual Diversity and employees. The company’s annual employee engagement survey and its communication plan for members of their teams. equal opportunity evolving array of internet tools and actions further contribute toward creating coherent, consistent communication. Talent acquisition Key 2012 achievements Employee voice Global Leadership Conference to ensuring cascade of key strategic messages Human capital Launch of New Heights 2015 strategic plan with widespread through social media development communication reaching all levels of the organization I Quarterly Leadership Calls for top 400 CWT leaders n a global, highly matrix organization such as CWT, it is important to foster ‘the personal connection’ with the company’s goals. The more Monthly manager-specific outreach – NEXUS launched employees feel connected to strategic goals, the more likely they are Health and safety to actively participate and prioritize those goals. Face-to-face meetings Manager-specific social media platform (NEXUS group in Yammer) are the best way to establish relationships and we encourage those at CWT; however, it is not always possible to gather employees in one place. Work-life balance Ongoing education and best practice sharing through Yammer CWT’s internal social media platform, Yammer, has had much success; today, CWT has over 10,000 employees using Yammer in over 800 groups. Copyright © 2013 CWT 34 Contents Chapter 4 Human Resources 2012 Responsible Business Report CHAPTER 4 Employee engagement CWT core values Employee engagement is an integral part of CWT’s strategic priority around developing its people. It also supports the creation of an engaging environment and prompts people to “go the extra mile” to better serve customers. Communication, employee dialogue and I employee engagement n the service industry, a highly 2. Realization: striving for 3. Work environment: enabling Since 2009, CWT has installed engaged workforce will lead business results and personal work processes and supportive a robust employee engagement to highly satisfied customers, development leadership process : cutting-edge innovation, 1. Engagement survey Diversity and and enhanced productivity. Encouraging people to go for Creating an easy-to-experience 2. Rigorous reporting equal opportunity Therefore, employee engagement best tangible results and to work environment with motivating 3. Analyses of results is a strategic priority for CWT and an pro-actively deliver opportunities leadership to enable success 4. Deep dives with focus teams opportunity to differentiate CWT in for development 5. Action planning a highly competitive market place. CWT aspires to build a workforce that: 6. Tracking & recognition CWT strives to become the best Talent acquisition workplace in our industry, enabling Consistently speaks positively us to attract the right talent, retain about the organization to and develop our people, and drive co-workers, potential employees, a culture of high performance. We and customers define three drivers for Engagement, Human capital namely: Has an intense desire to be part of development our organization 1.Relevance: feeling of belongingness and having a Exerts extra effort and engages sense of purpose in behavior that contributes to business success Health and safety Defining and communicating a compelling strategic direction while creating a culture of respect, Work-life balance team work and high energy Copyright © 2013 CWT 35 Contents Chapter 4 Human Resources 2012 Responsible Business Report C CHAPTER 4 WT has been measuring and analyzing the As of December 2012, 1,651 action items worldwide have been entered level of engagement in the employee engagement action planning website CWT core values of all its employees worldwide every year. 74 110 The company takes the survey very 67 seriously; the overall objective is 171 79 Communication, to raise employee engagement More than 90% of employees employee dialogue and to high-performance level in all responded to the 2012 CW T 66 regions and functions. To ensure Employee Engagement Survey, employee engagement the accuracy and objectivity of the conducted in June. The results show 203 survey results, the confidentiality very significant progress, as we are of individual answers is strictly now closing the gap with global 224 guaranteed. companies that have the highest 21 Diversity and levels of employee engagement. equal opportunity Overall, employee engagement 76 improved by three percentage 93 43 points in 2012 compared to the 73 previous year. 100 148 103 Talent acquisition The ultimate goal of the survey is to identify actions and initiatives that help make CWT a better place Communication Immediate Management to work for all. Each year, action Company Image Job Satisfaction items are executed to address Customer Focus Leadership Human capital the results of the engagement Development Performance Management development survey. As of December 2012, Diversity Recognition & Reward 1,651 actions have been Empathy & Respect Strategy & Direction implemented throughout the Empowerment Work Organization company around the world. Progress Engagement Working Relationships of these action plans is monitored Health and safety on a regular basis. Work-life balance Copyright © 2013 CWT 36 Contents Chapter 4 Human Resources 2012 Responsible Business Report CHAPTER 4 Diversity and equal opportunity CWT core values Promoting diversity & inclusion Communication, In today’s global environment, it is crucial to understand the diverse cultures, customs and needs employee dialogue and of employees, customers and regional markets. As a global enterprise, CWT seeks to ensure that its employee engagement employee body reflects the diversity of its business environment. W i t h 20 , 0 0 0 business every day. This guiding principle Diversity and employees includes fostering respect and a team equal opportunity representing spirit in the workplace; embracing and a b o u t 10 0 leveraging the multicultural essence nationalities, of the company, and providing equal CWT benefits from employees of opportunities to talented individuals. CWT’s cultural diversity is anchored in all ages, all walks of life and diverse one of the things that our employees Talent acquisition backgrounds. This rich tapestry This is also reflected in our recruitment do best: respecting each other. This enables each member of the CWT processes, which help to ensure the strong sense of mutual respect is team to develop new ways of looking highest quality choices and adhere a key characteristic of CWT. We at issues and contribute innovative to all local regulations. They also embrace all nationalities, cultures and ideas and creativity. respect company policy regarding styles and more. Our strong sense Human capital non-discrimination, equal opportunity of mutual respect combined with the development CWT’s Code of Business Ethics and recruitment by competency. international nature of CWT makes cultural diversity a and Conduct clearly confirms our true asset. engagement to recognize and respect CWT actively promotes diversity, the diversity of people and ideas, and to inclusion and equal opportunity for all. ensure inclusion and equal opportunity. The company aims to offer equal access Jean-Luc Duchemin, Executive Vice President, Health and safety to job opportunities and job training. Global Human Resources As one of CWT’s global six core values for all employees, diversity and by On Yammer, we have a Diversity & Work-life balance extension, inclusiveness are central to Inclusion group which is open for how CWT and our employees conduct anyone to join. Copyright © 2013 CWT 37 Contents Chapter 4 Human Resources 2012 Responsible Business Report CHAPTER 4 Examples of initiatives T CWT core values o connect, CWT’s workforce must mirror its customers. CWT recognizes the right of everyone to work in an environment where individual dignity is respected, and will not condone any form of discrimination or harassment. It is CWT policy to take disciplinary action against the offending party. Everyone in CWT is responsible for putting the diversity policy into practice and everyone is required to act responsibly to Communication, ensure a pleasant and inclusive working environment free of discrimination or harassment. LABOR employee dialogue and HUMAN RIGHTS Asia-Pacific employee engagement The company’s diversity policy is available to all employees in Asia-Pacific through Europe, Middle East, Africa the CWT intranet. The policy’s key message is strongly underlined: “CWT’s strength For example, the CWT Equal Opportunities policies in the UK and Ireland, is the diversity of our people. Each employee is recognized as an important member available on the intranet, support the CWT core value of Cultural Diversity. of our worldwide team. We respect the rights and dignity of all employees.” This is As stated in the policy: “procedures for recruitment, selection, training Diversity and also the region where 33% of the senior leadership team is female. and development and promotion are designed to ensure that no person equal opportunity receives less favorable treatment on the grounds of age, disability, gender In addition, Asia-Pacific started its own Diversity and Inclusion Council in August reassignment, marriage and civil partnership, pregnancy and maternity, race, 2012 with 20 members representing all countries across the region. Three areas religion or belief, sex (gender) and sexual orientation.” were identified as key areas for the Council to address, namely: Community Service, Education, and Diversity & Inclusion. Some of the activities scheduled in Talent acquisition 2013 at country level include: “Cultural Ambassador” featuring a “54 minorities”, to introduce team member to share their culture minority nationalities within CWT At CWT, employees are recruited, and background. China, including traditional dress, selected, developed and advanced based Human capital typical food, customs and habits. on merit irrespective of race, color, development Partnering with clients to speak to religion, gender, age, national origin, employees about diversity. The Australia / New Zealand sexual orientation, identity, marital office is organizing “Diversity & status or disability. It is important for “Best I Can” event where team Inclusion Day” on May 21st to us to have employees that reflect the members share their skills on coincide with the “World Day for Health and safety different cultures and clients we serve to photography, tour writing, and music. Cultural Diversity for Dialogue and create that point of difference in the marketplace. Development”. This will include Organizing forums and support foods from different countries as Work-life balance groups for first-time and/or single well as team members wearing Kai Chan, APAC Diversity & Inclusion Council Executive Sponsor; parents. their national dress. General Manager, Southeast Asia Copyright © 2013 CWT 38 Contents Chapter 4 Human Resources 2012 Responsible Business Report CHAPTER 4 The Americas With more than 20 volunteers In the U.S. CWT established its representing many levels CWT core values Diversity and Inclusion (D&I) and functions throughout the Council in 2007 to ensure diversity organization, the Council is and inclusion as a foundational organized into several sub-teams part of CWT’s culture. To show its focused on specific priorities and Communication, commitment to this program, the initiatives. Examples of these employee dialogue and D&I Council formalized its goal into include: Supplier diversity the following Vision and Mission employee engagement statements: • L.U.N.A (Latinos Unidos Network CWT recognizes the importance of establishing a more formal Association) supplier diversity program as a critical component for assisting Vision Enable CWT to be a • G.E.T (Generational Excellence our clients with the fulfillment of their diversity goals, and as an global leader in the travel industry Team) important way we can impact the success of diversity outside Diversity and by leveraging diversity as a means • GLBT (Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual and our own walls. To accomplish this, the Diversity and Inclusion equal opportunity of maximizing business potential for Transgender) Council is partnering with CWT’s procurement department to our employees and business drive progress on this front. partners Talent acquisition Mission Increase visibility and awareness of our diversity strategy within CWT to our employees, clients, and vendors through our Smart companies understand that a focus on diversity and inclusion communication, programs, and produces tangible business results, whether it relates to attracting Human capital actions and retaining top talent or bringing different perspectives to business development challenges. We want our employees to feel comfortable that they work in a multi-cultural environment and their skills and talents can be joined together to make our company a better place to work, ultimately making everyone more effective in this fast-paced company Health and safety and industry. That’s why I’m proud to lead the team of individuals at CWT focused on making diversity and inclusion more central to everything we do as an organization. Their efforts have a direct impact on CWT’s overall success. Work-life balance Sara Lissick, Diversity and Inclusion Executive Sponsor & Chief Financial Officer, CWT Americas Copyright © 2013 CWT 39 Contents Chapter 4 Human Resources 2012 Responsible Business Report CHAPTER 4 Women@Work Ensuring an accessible workplace in France T CWT core values I he CWT Women@Work initiative was initiated in 2010 to further drive CWT’s growth and market differentiation by creating a n France, CWT takes a very culture that leverages the unique strengths of both women and proactive approach to the Communication, men in key leadership roles. integ ration of disabled employee dialogue and personnel. The company As part of its commitment, CWT and industry demographics drive a greater mix of women at entry has been a member of CWT France has assigned 12 employee engagement level management, but the trajectory mirrors that of other companies as the Hangagés corporate network representatives to promote La employees advance. In fact, as of end of 2012, women accounted for 44% supporting the disabled since 2009. Mission Handicap internally and has of senior management (582 FTE), but 36% of N-2 (i.e. direct reports to And it also established in 2009 recruited 36 disabled employees Executive Team). La Mission Handicap, an internal between 2009 and 2012. Disabled Diversity and entity dedicated to promoting the members of the CWT workforce equal opportunity The effort to establish equal leadership opportunities for women within CWT employment of disabled people. benefit from appropriate chairs, is designed to support the company’s business goals by taking into account large computer screens, software the growing proportion of women among the company’s client base. Women for those with impaired vision and are key buyers or influencers in travel purchasing. In fact, 70 percent of CWT’s La Mission Handicap equipment for the hard-of-hearing. key client contacts are women. While women account for only 30 percent of The company has also worked Talent acquisition business travelers worldwide, the percentage of women travelers has been La Mission Handicap was set up together with various non-profit increasing steadily among younger generations. For example, women aged by CWT France to formally commit organizations and participated 24-to-34 account for more than 35 percent of business travelers worldwide. to reinforce recruitment, training in many forums focusing on the and support for the disabled by disabled. Moreover, CWT France ensuring that disabled employees has signed an agreement with Human capital benefit from easier workplace social partners, which further development a c c e s s i b i l i t y, w o r k s t a t i o n formalized its commitment in this adjustments, telecommuting, area for three years (2011-2013). and dedicated equipment and accommodation facilities. I n a d d i t i o n , C W T Fr a n c e i s committed to favor outside suppliers Health and safety whose workforce consists of at least 80 percent disabled people, for such services as printing of Work-life balance communications materials, catering and paper/cardboard recycling. Copyright © 2013 CWT 40 Contents Chapter 4 Human Resources 2012 Responsible Business Report CHAPTER 4 CWT core values Talent acquisition My Journey. My CWT. A t CWT, we have a Global Market Leadership Communication, unique and compelling To succeed in our New Heights 2015 global ambition, #1 in its industry employee dialogue and culture as an employer. which includes attracting, developing, and retaining Global One that is defined by employee engagement the right talent, we must ensure our recruitment Strong reputation our people, supported efforts successfully identify candidates who will align by our core values, and one that is with and strengthen our unique culture. These talented important to build upon to become Strong Moral Compass new employees will help us achieve our vision to be the the employer of choice in our industry. Diversity and employer of choice in our industry. Also, an effective employee experience Mutual respect equal opportunity Openness, integrity improves employees’ “discretionary” Employees treated as effort. Committed employees stay individuals Jean-Luc Duchemin, Executive Vice President, longer, perform better, and refer the Global Human Resources company to prospective employees. Achievement through Talent acquisition We all agree that our people are our Collaboration C competitive advantage. Attracting Winning through collaboration WT aims to be has identified the key attributes that the right people to the business is a Trust perceived as a great contribute to CWT’s unique culture cornerstone of great recruitment. The High quality co-workers company to work for, and values and how they can support CWT employer brand is as much about Human capital and as an employer recruitment. the employee experience as it is about Robust Development development of choice, if not the simply attracting the right talent. Opportunities employer of choice, within the Building on the work achieved to Learn and grow industry. To advance that goal, the date, human resources specialists The My Journey. My CWT initiative, Personal development company’s human resources funcare now defining ways to ensure that launched in 2012, then aims to drive tion has focused in particular over new hires not only align with CWT’s employee attraction and retention and Health and safety the past 18 months on clarifying the culture and values but have the capastrengthen CWT competitiveness. The You Drive Results company’s identity, to ensure that bility to strengthen them. This effort idea is to make the company’s unique Make a difference new employees have a clear definiinvolves all HR professionals within identity clear, especially to external Involvement Work-life balance tion of what to expect when they join. the company, but especially CWT’s audiences, by highlighting CWT’s key Voice your opinion Thanks to this effort, management roughly 2,000 hiring managers. attributes: Copyright © 2013 CWT 41 Contents Chapter 4 Human Resources 2012 Responsible Business Report CHAPTER 4 My journey. My CWT. will help make continuous learning and have an these cultural attributes clearer and intense desire to serve customers. CWT core values more visible to people who are The way that we will attract the right thinking about joining CWT. talent as part of our New Heights 2015 global ambition will revolve Our message is based on an around how our recruitment process Communication, overriding approach: at CW T, is designed to identify not only the employee dialogue and employees feel a genuine right skills and experience, but also respect for one another, act with the right “fit” culturally. This will employee engagement uncompromising integrity and enable us to identify people more feel proud of our global market likely to stay with the organization leadership. Employees value working and deliver higher levels of together, embrace opportunities for performance. Diversity and equal opportunity A global recruitment process Talent acquisition To ensure that CWT’s recruitment process identifies the right skills and experience, along with the right fit culturally, the company has launched a new global recruitment process. T Human capital development he global recruitment align recruitment with our strategic department point of contact, and process brings their specific added process aims at requirements. A specific tool kit the HR recruiter responsible for value. It requires all three main obtaining a level of has been created to ensure that managing the recruitment process. stakeholders to work together, recruitment quality that recruitment fits within the five CWT Under the new process, which calls bringing their unique skills is the same across all Attributes that characterize our for more transparency and faster and expertise to contribute to Health and safety countries we operate in. It is mainly employer brand. hiring, hiring managers will be more the success of the recruitment. based on our set of corporate involved in recruitment. Respect, communication and values and has been recently This global process focuses on three agreement are the foundations of Work-life balance organized and structured in a way key stakeholders: the manager who The new process ensures that a good partnership between all that will enable all recruiters to recruits, the Human Resources each stakeholder involved in the parties. Copyright © 2013 CWT 42 Contents Chapter 4 Human Resources 2012 Responsible Business Report CHAPTER 4 Human capital development CWT core values To ensure that CWT’s growth remains sustainable over time, the company assesses skills and Communication, performance against constantly changing customer and market requirements. As the world’s leading employee dialogue and travel management services company, CWT aims to reinforce its leadership role in every aspect of employee engagement its business. Talent and performance development, as well as employee recognition, are critical to this goal. T Diversity and he current emphasis on talent management within CWT aims equal opportunity at enabling the company to thrive in a more complex, more competitive environment while meeting growing employee expectations for a satisfactory work-life balance and meaningful jobs. The structured talent management approach will ensure that CWT has the leadership talent necessary to deliver against today’s strategies Talent acquisition as well as the leaders needed for tomorrow’s business challenges. Human capital Talent Development is about how to development bring the best out of people. With our talent management approach, we aim to make CWT more successful in business performance and to make Health and safety employees more successful in their job by enabling them to unleash their potential. Work-life balance Mark Karelse, Vice President, Global Talent Management & Learning Copyright © 2013 CWT 43 Contents Chapter 4 Human Resources 2012 Responsible Business Report CHAPTER 4 Talent management CWT core values Talent review process Talent assessment One of CWT’s ambitions is to be a company that attracts, develops, and retains Systematically, CWT also follows a philosophy for assessing potential using the right talent. As such, the company has integrated a talent review process a 360-degree assessment. CWT believes that a proven track record and Communication, into its talent management approach. As an example, below is the high-level sustainable strong performance is a sine qua non to be considered as employee dialogue and process for N-4 to N-2: potential. In assessing potential, the company looks at three elements: ability to learn; result capability; and, ambition. employee engagement Regional/Functional talent reviews in countries and departments Regional/Functional management team calibration meeting Diversity and equal opportunity ET members present talent review to CEO Talent acquisition ET calibration meeting One-on-one feedback to individuals by direct manager Human capital Individual development plans created in partnership development with individual, manager and HR Health and safety N = CEO 360° Assessment N-1 = Executive Team (ET) 360 is a mandatory activity once or every 2 years for everyone N-2 = direct reports of ET in the talent pool. It provides a basic input for performance Work-life balance etc. appraisal. Copyright © 2013 CWT 44 Contents Chapter 4 Human Resources 2012 Responsible Business Report CHAPTER 4 Career development and CWT core values succession planning Communication, Solid succession planning is a pre-requisite for Learning & leadership employee dialogue and employee engagement building sustainable leadership bench strength. We are passionate about identifying and developing development our own future leaders! Our global talent review process is an important enabler to give our people the Carlson Wagonlit Travel is committed to opportunity to join the talent program, if they have the providing learning solutions that enable Diversity and aspiration and the abilities. employees to improve performance, adapt to equal opportunity change and achieve business results. Mark Karelse, Vice President, Global Talent Management & Learning Our collective success rests with our ability to grow leaders within our Talent acquisition organization. “Critical leadership skills as with all learning needs continue to evolve and adapt in order to meet the constantly changing conditions and challenges of a global marketplace.“ Human capital development We want to create really global leaders and to act as a global organization. So, all our learning and leadership development efforts are aimed at developing people to become truly global leaders by helping them learn Health and safety how to manage diversity – what it means to do business in different organizations, in different countries with different regulations. Work-life balance Mark Karelse, Vice President, Global Talent Management & Learning Copyright © 2013 CWT 45 Contents Chapter 4 Human Resources 2012 Responsible Business Report CHAPTER 4 CWT University Leadership Compass T CWT core values CWT University is the newly globalized online Learning Management he Leadership Compass is designed to help us “navigate” what System (LMS) that puts all training content into one, easy-to-find place. It is most important to successful leadership at CWT worldwide. is the company’s principal vehicle for training deployment, learning-related It is a guide to stronger results as an organization, as managers Communication, registration, tracking, and reporting. CWT University offers individualized and as individuals. In line with this, five leadership success factors employee dialogue and learning tracks, enabling supervisors to create, monitor and manage these have been identified : tracks to support individual career and development goals. employee engagement Do What’s Right Inspire and Develop Our People Through its varied portfolio of learning opportunities focused on CWT products, Deliver Today Passion to Succeed services and deliverables, CWT University helps field teams increase revenue Build for Tomorrow and profitability, achieve team goals, diagnose clients’ needs and position Diversity and CWT in the best light, and more effectively sell to clients using value-based Our learning offerings are designed to develop the CWT leadership equal opportunity selling (VBS) to achieve sales/up-sell goals. competencies described in our CWT Leadership Compass. Talent acquisition Key CWT University features One centralized site for training content. The ability to push or assign specific curriculum to an audience. Human capital development Catalog search capabilities, which makes course information easier to locate. Increased flexibility in timing and method of learning. Health and safety Budget and schedule management to optimize use of limited training budgets and time. Work-life balance Reporting and tracking of learning history and progress. Copyright © 2013 CWT 46 Contents Chapter 4 Human Resources 2012 Responsible Business Report CHAPTER 4 Traveler and Transaction Services CWT core values Core Curriculum Communication, As the largest population within CWT, travel counselors play a key role in the company’s overall employee dialogue and performance. Launched in early 2012, the Traveler and Transaction Services (TTS) Core Curriculum employee engagement is the company’s first global training initiative covering all TTS employees worldwide. It provides a common foundation for employees, regardless of location, line of business, or service configuration. T Diversity and equal opportunity he TTS Core Curriculum To ensure that travel counselors are is designed to advance continuously informed, updates three goals: professional and other details can be found and The ultimate target is to have development, personal accessed through : every TTS employee become a CWT growth and competitive Certified Travel Counselor with a Talent acquisition advantage. ‘Global Booking License.’ The license reflects the counselor’s The TTS Core Curriculum content CWT Online – a repository for all enhanced capability to provide the consists of 50+ courses, rolled out updates on the program, including best booking experience to CWT in quarterly waves over 2012 and a current list of available courses customers anywhere in the world. Human capital 2013. The first four waves, consisting development of 31 courses, were launched in 2012. These included, for example, Berthold Trenkel, Executive Vice President, Traveler & Transaction Services CWT at a Glance, Organizational CWT University – where all the Structure,, Operational Excellence courses are hosted Overview, Fast Track Overview and Health and safety Carlson Hotels. Yammer – a “TTS Core Curriculum” In 2012, CWT University and TTS Core Curriculum generated 19,000 group has been formed in Yammer users and 2,100 learning items listed in eight different languages, of Work-life balance to serve as a forum for questions which 475 e-learning modules are available. and discussion on the program Copyright © 2013 CWT 47 Contents Chapter 4 Human Resources 2012 Responsible Business Report CHAPTER 4 Operational Excellence CWT core values As a company, we are determined to meet travelers’ expectations for a high-quality booking experience no matter where they call. The CWT Operational Excellence initiative focuses on driving the behaviors, Communication, processes and leadership that will ensure we have a sustainable future as employee dialogue and the world’s best. employee engagement O The Operational Excellence program helps drive our high service quality. perational Excellence In 2012, 69 sites in the EMEA region participated. A phenomenal amount is a formal program of work sits behind this; 3,000 members of the EMEA team are involved. Diversity and that analyzes This is about focusing on world-class delivery and establishing a consistent equal opportunity processes, tools and standard baseline of performance across all sites and all networks. people to ensure we deliver the most effective, consistent, pleasant experience Andrew Waller, President, EMEA and Global Partners Network to each traveler serviced. It is built Talent acquisition around the idea of a Model Business Travel Center, an “ideal site“ that Operational Excellence program goals: Operational serves as a benchmark for CWT Excellence benefits global standards. 1 Building a world-class service delivery process “Simply the Best Booking Human capital This end-to-end process analyzes Building the baseline & sharing leading practices Experience“ for our development everything from a site’s staffing and travelers leadership to its processes, training, Business growth performance management and Growing a culture of continuous improvement measurement of client satisfaction. This underpins our ongoing pursuit 2 Our customers demand to be served by the best Reduction of errors and payouts Health and safety of lower operating costs and Efficient and effective increased customer satisfaction. Reinforcing “working together“ as processes Work-life balance 3 CWT’s way of life Providing assistance Heightened employee engagement Copyright © 2013 CWT 48 Contents Chapter 4 Human Resources 2012 Responsible Business Report CHAPTER 4 Leadership development Harvard ManageMentor C CWT core values WT’s leadership development programs guide leaders to the To gain further insight in state-of-the-art leadership techniques and right development at the right time. The company’s talent tools, CWT and Carlson launched a new generation of e-learning development system includes a strong leadership development solutions for employees of both companies in late 2012. These new Communication, curriculum, early talent identification and international mobility. e-learning solutions consist of ten modules that enable participants employee dialogue and Establishing clear leadership expectations, these programs to draw on experts from Harvard Business Publishing. An outgrowth ensure that individuals have the information they need to support their of the recently launched partnership between Carlson and Harvard employee engagement development, fuel sustained success and prepare for the future. University, the initiative encourages peer-to-peer knowledge transfer across the Carlson group and interaction within the Harvard ManageMentor leadership development community. Diversity and equal opportunity Leading Leaders Program T he robust, six-month Leading Leaders Program, launched in Talent acquisition mid-2012, focuses on mid-level leaders – those that lead managers or senior professional staff – who demonstrate exceptional potential for growth within CWT. The goal is to develop leaders At CWT we are committed to strengthening our who are able to bring out the best in our people and ensure we leadership competencies to drive high performance are building an engaging, inspiring, high-performance work environment. and employee engagement. During the last few years, Human capital we made several inspirational leadership development development The program includes a 360-degree assessment, an in-person classroom session, and course electives based on individual needs. When fully deployed, programs available to managers in our organization so Leading Leaders will be launched in every region and will ultimately impact they would acquire contemporary leadership skills and 350-500 leaders. competencies. Health and safety Jean-Luc Duchemin, Executive Vice President, Global Human Resources Work-life balance Copyright © 2013 CWT 49 Contents Chapter 4 Human Resources 2012 Responsible Business Report CHAPTER 4 The Global Leadership Journey T CWT core values he Global Leadership Journey has been designed to build CWT’s key talent through formal development, assessment, coaching and an action learning project. The program is designed to model Communication, MBA programs. CWT has partnered with five top business schools employee dialogue and to deliver exceptional content. In addition, a leadership common theme is woven throughout the program. employee engagement The Global Leadership Journey is more than just a classroom program. Participants benefit from a 360-degree feedback process at the beginning of the program and support from a professional individual coach to help focus on Diversity and personal development. They also participate in a group action learning project equal opportunity to apply their knowledge and skills to a real business problem. The program consists of six sessions spread across Asia Pacific, EMEA, Latin America, and North America. The educational content includes business knowledge, leadership development and coaching, stretch assignments and Talent acquisition global awareness. Key figures 2012: Leadership Development Program participants Human capital development by the numbers Global Leadership Journey (GLJ): 19 CWT participants Leading Leaders: 130 participants Health and safety Leading Service Center Excellence (LSCE): 50 participants Work-life balance Leadership Foundation: 640 participants Copyright © 2013 CWT 50 Contents Chapter 4 Human Resources 2012 Responsible Business Report CHAPTER 4 Performance development CWT core values At CWT we aspire to become a high performance organization. We are driving superior performance by aligning the way we set targets and expectations, fostering Communication, a culture of development and feedback and assessing individual contribution to employee dialogue and reward high performance and to address low performance. employee engagement Mark Karelse, Vice President, Global Talent Management & Learning Diversity and equal opportunity Performance Management Process Mid-year reviews C D W T’s Per formance • Set Business Goals • Continued ongoing informal feedback Management Process • Review Success Factors • Review progress against uring mid-year Talent acquisition (PMP) maps the route • Set Development Goals Business Goals, Success reviews, managers Factors, and Developto success for each ment Goals meet with members employee. The PMP of their teams to ultimately increases employee Quarter Quarter discuss progress retention, promotes teamwork, and 1 2 against their business and individual Human capital improves employee satisfaction. goals (what) and the way they development execute those goals (how), as well The core of CWT’s PMP is quality as their personal development Quarter Quarter dialogue between the supervisor areas. These reviews also provide and employee. Ongoing, timely 3 4 an opportunity to identify changes • Continued ongoing discussions regarding performance to objectives agreed earlier in the Health and safety and development are critical for informal feedback • Review progress against • Managers prepare year and adjust agreements as Business Goals, success the annual review each employee’s success. Factors, and Development Goals appropriate. Work-life balance Copyright © 2013 CWT 51 Contents Chapter 4 Human Resources 2012 Responsible Business Report CHAPTER 4 Employee recognition C CWT core values WT knows that North America: bravo! APAC: GEM Awards UK & Ireland: CWT Heroes its people are its competitive advantage Employees in North America can The GEM Awards (Going CWT UK & Ireland initiated in 2012 Communication, they are at the core show their appreciation of their the Extra Mile), which spans the its CWT Heroes award to recognize employee dialogue and of everything that we colleagues for a job well done or entire Asia-Pacific region, recognizes employees and/or teams “for going do. And recognizing our employees’ for help extended through the truly outstanding performance and above and beyond in their role(s).“ employee engagement commitment and effort to contribute bravo! Program. All employees are behavior that are aligned with CWT’s Due to the success of the initiative, in making CWT successful is taken encouraged to submit their bravo! global core values. While employees it will be relaunched in 2013. very seriously by the company. recognition of a colleague online. The can recognize their colleagues for best bravo! entry for the month may demonstrating core values on an ad Employees are called out to Diversity and Various specific programs have been then be featured in the dedicated hoc basis, more formal individual/ nominate a colleague and/or team equal opportunity implemented at local and corporate bravo! section on the intranet. team awards are presented on a who they think best exemplify the levels across CWT’s operations. To Winners are selected according to quarterly and yearly basis.These awards criteria. A shortlist from highlight a few examples, below are their achievements in supporting key awards recognize outstanding the nominations will be derived some initiatives from regional and CWT values, including customer care, behaviors of individuals or teams quarterly. At the end of the year, 12 country level, as well as functional commitment to excellence, cultural in four categories: Voice of the winners will be declared. Talent acquisition and management level: diversity, reliability, entrepreneurial Customer, People and Culture, spirit and integrity. Quality and Productivity, and Denmark: General Manager Innovation. Winners are decided by for a Day the CWT Leadership Team in each country. All the yearly award winners The initiative was launched to give Human capital within each country are also eligible employees an opportunity to stretch development for an overall Regional Award per themselves by filling in the challenging category and/or a “President’s role of Denmark’s Managing Director Award” as nominated by the for a day. Employees who feel up to the president of the region. challenge are encouraged to submit their application.Those selected Health and safety engage in such activities as chairing an executive meeting, participating in other internal and external meetings, Work-life balance cooperating with colleagues from other CWT companies and other tasks on an ad hoc basis. Copyright © 2013 CWT 52 Contents Chapter 4 Human Resources 2012 Responsible Business Report CHAPTER 4 TTS Awards CWT recognizes from across the globe TTS employees who have delivered CWT core values outstandingly on their roles and responsibilities, based on client feedback and testimonials, and/or process improvements and successful change management implemented in their respective teams. Recognitions are celebrated during TTS People Appreciation Week and throughout the year Communication, at CWT Town Hall meetings and in CWT communications. TTS employees employee dialogue and have the opportunity to receive a plaque or certificate of appreciation from CWT for their achievements. In 2013, we will be introducing a Global Travel employee engagement Counselor of the Future Award. Carlson Fellows Award The Carlson Fellows Award is designed to recognize employees who exemplify the values and credo of Carlson in everything they do. Candidates for Service Awards the Carlson Fellows Award must have worked for the company for at least Diversity and In most wholly owned companies across the different regions, CWT gives five years. equal opportunity recognition to employees who have reached and rendered a certain number of years with the company in the form of long service awards. Depending on Recognized Carlson Fellows exemplify leadership attributes, such as setting the country and number of years, the award could be premium for seniority, direction, building high performance winning teams, doing what is right and medal of service, additional vacation days, etc. producing quality results. Talent acquisition CWT Global Finance Awards The Global Finance Awards program, initiated in 2011, provides recognition CWT CEO Awards for finance team members worldwide for their contributions during the prior The annual CWT CEO Award represents one of the ways in which the company year. Finance team members are nominated by their peers, managers and recognizes employee achievements that fully support CWT’s mission, values Human capital internal customers. Nominees are judged based on their achievements in and strategic priorities. development improving efficiency and/or timeliness, accuracy, customer service, driving enhanced profitability and reducing risk. In 2011 and 2012, several nominees The CEO Awards provide recognition to individuals or teams that deliver were recognized with Honorable Mentions for their significant contributions outstanding results in line with the Global Strategic Priorities – Growth, to CWT’s finance organization. Innovation, Efficiency, Supplier Value, Talent – or deliver exceptional business performance in the areas of customer service, performance, quality, employee Health and safety engagement and global collaboration. For 2011, the winners were recognized at the 2012 Global Leadership Conference held in Stockholm in February 2012; while for 2012, the winners were awarded at the 2013 Global Work-life balance Leadership Conference held in Miami in February 2013. Copyright © 2013 CWT 53 Contents Chapter 4 Human Resources 2012 Responsible Business Report CHAPTER 4 Health and safety CWT core values Carlson Wagonlit Travel is committed to providing a safe and healthy work environment for all its employees, including contractors and visitors to CWT premises. CWT ensures that all employees can Communication, carry out their work in a manner that is in accordance with health and safety regulations. employee dialogue and employee engagement E very reasonable effort manage and control their occupational a wide range of issues, from Through our membership with is made to promote a health and safety risks and improve workplace organization and the British Safety Council (BSC), Diversity and safe and healthy working OH&S performance). Here are a few burnout prevention to sexual we are able to deliver recognised equal opportunity environment by making more examples of health and safety harassment. The program includes training to our network of branch available appropriate initiatives: an external hotline available to Health and Safety Coordinators. resources to ensure that CWT all employees and their families These volunteers are trained on complies with all relevant health and Poland which covers not only professional the introductory level of National safety legislations in the countries in Employees at CWT Poland receive issues but also personal issues Vo c a t i o n a l Q u a l i f i c a t i o n , a Talent acquisition which it operates. initial health and safety briefings as well such as family problems, legal, workplace learning qualification. as periodic training. The initial briefing, conflicts and substance abuse. Furthermore, as part of the benefits In Australia and New Zealand, for which covers the country’s labor code, of our membership, a 24-hour example, specific Occupational Health CWT work regulations and first aid, United Kingdom & Ireland advice helpline through the BSC and Safety Policies & Requirements is required for all new employees. CWT UK & Ireland has well is available and accessible to our Human capital are available to all employees. CWT Ongoing training, provided every developed policies covering a Health and Safety Coordinators. The development subsidiaries in Belgium, Poland and five or six years, focuses on updated wide range of topics, with risk Facilities & Environmental Manager, the Netherlands have health and content and includes fire prevention assessments encompassing fire, a qualified Technician member of safety contingency plan policies. The and new techniques. Overseen by a first aid, Display Screen Equipment the Institution of Occupational Netherlands and Switzerland have member of the Human Resources (DSE), maternity, young persons, Safety & Health (IOSH), also serves also made their policies available via staff, the training is provided by an lone and night workers, stress and as the point of contact for all UK & Health and safety their respective intranets. CWT United outside vendor. wellbeing, driving on business and Ireland health and safety concerns. Kingdom and Ireland is aiming for manual handling. Also, routine OHSAS 18001 accreditation in 2013 Switzerland workplace inspections take place Work-life balance (OHSAS 18001 is an international The health and safety program and there are procedures in place standard that helps organizations at CWT Switzerland covers for accident/incident reporting. Copyright © 2013 CWT 54 Contents Chapter 4 Human Resources 2012 Responsible Business Report CHAPTER 4 Denmark At CWT Denmark, employees Germany A Safety Officer is named at each Netherlands CWT Netherlands has installed Singapore CWT Singapore won the Singapore benefit from natural ventilation, CWT Germany site, with coordination Company Emergency Response HEALTH Bronze Award in 2012, CWT core values which helps ensure an excellent provided by the company’s (CER) teams to ensure the health which was conferred by the indoor climate. In the canteen, food headquarters in Eschborn. CWT and safety of everyone at its sites. Singapore Health Promotion Board and beverages are 50 70% organic. Germany maintains employer’s The teams consist of 21 CWT for companies that demonstrate And a fitness room is available to liability insurance coverage, employees – CER officers – who excellence and commitment to Communication, employees all day. occupational health and safety are trained to provide first aid and employee health and wellbeing. employee dialogue and measures, and initiatives covering emergency care in the event of an CWT Singapore was recognized for health promotion. Health and safety emergency. outstanding efforts, and impressed employee engagement training is provided annually and the panel with regular organized external audits of the employer’s CER officers, who are certified physical activities and sports, health liability insurance coverage are during a two-day basic training and wellness talks, sponsored conducted by TÜV Rheinland. course, are responsible for health screenings, and even annual Diversity and preventing and fighting fires, influenza vaccinations. The team is equal opportunity reducing the impact of accidents, committed to strive for a Silver or providing suppor t by aler ting Gold Award in 2014. and evacuating employees and others in emergency situations, and carrying out fire evacuation drills Talent acquisition at least once a year. Each CWT location in the Netherlands is equipped with first-aid kits, fire extinguishers, Human capital evacuation floor plans and an development emergency and evacuation plan. Health and safety CWT Denmark office facilities Work-life balance Copyright © 2013 CWT 55 Contents Chapter 4 Human Resources 2012 Responsible Business Report CHAPTER 4 Work-life balance CWT core values A sense of well being directly correlates to employee engagement. As part of a broad effort to heighten engagement among all generations, CWT is examining the various ingredients that contribute to employees’ sense of well Communication, being on the job. A satisfactory work-life balance ranks high on the list. employee dialogue and Here are a few examples of how CWT is providing flexibility that contributes to employees’ work-life balance: employee engagement North America Netherlands: Work@Home CWT India Day CWT Indonesia Wins Dutch Telework Award and Family Week Company Outing The CWT Telecommuting Program Diversity and in North America makes it possible CWTNetherlands won the The Employee Engagement Team In 2012, CWT Indonesia organized equal opportunity for employees to work at home, TelewerkJaarprijs 2010 telework at CWT India organized a special its annual company outing by inviting on the road, and/or in a satellite award for its Work@Home program. set of events during Spring 2012 its staff from all over Indonesia to location. Eligible employees must The program gives employees the to help employees manage a spend the weekend together, and work full time, obtain approval from opportunity to work from home from healthy work-life balance and take take the time to get to know another their manager, be able to work a half day to several days a week. The time to appreciate and thank family by meeting face-to-face those with Talent acquisition with little supervision and have a award was presented by the Dutch members who provide support on an whom they normally only keep in demonstrated track record of strong E-work Foundation (a telework forum) ongoing basis. Celebrations started touch by email. During the event, performance. In addition to a safe, to recognize the organization that on May 28 with CWT India Day, CWT Indonesia also gave recognition quiet and suitable home workplace, has implemented “The New Way of followed by Family Week. The events to outstanding employees, as well telecommuting employees are Working” in an exemplary manner. The culminated with Taare Zameen as held parlor games and gave away Human capital expected to have appropriate forum cited Carlson Wagonlit Travel’s Par – a Gift for Children Program. door prizes. development internet and network capability. commitment to its employees and CWT India Day, Family Week and to employee retention as the main Taare Zameen Par included fun reason for presenting the award to activities to engage employees the company. and their family members. Games, activities, lunches and tours of the Health and safety Several other CWT units in offices were organized throughout Europe also offer work at home the week with the main focus on opportunities, including Belgium, celebrating relationships. Work-life balance Denmark, Germany, Poland, Sweden, Switzerland and the UK & Ireland. Copyright © 2013 CWT 56 Contents CHAPTER 5 Environment CWT’s environmental approach CWT’s carbon management project Reducing CWT’s greenhouse gas emissions and managing energy consumption More environmental best practices in CWT geographies Enabling customers to be more environmentally friendly Contents Chapter 5 Environment 2012 Responsible Business Report CHAPTER 5 CWT’s environmental approach CWT’s environmental As CWT fulfills its environmental responsibilities, the company focuses approach both on internal initiatives and on ways to help customers lower their environmental footprint. The former aims to reduce the environmental impact of CWT’s own activities. The latter is designed to enable customers to better evaluate, manage and reduce the impact of their business travel. CWT’s carbon management project ENVIRONMENT Principles 7, 8, 9 Reducing CWT’s greenhouse gas Management of environmental topics emissions and C managing energy WT’s Global Responsible Business team’s main environmental consumption mission is to implement a corporate strategy in order to reduce the company’s carbon footprint and thus minimize the environmental impact of its activities. This global strategy will also result in lower operational costs. Carbon emissions will progressively become one of the indicators of the company’s global More environmental operational performance. best practices in CWT geographies Enabling customers to be more environmentally friendly Copyright © 2013 CWT 58 Contents Chapter 5 Environment 2012 Responsible Business Report CHAPTER 5 CWT’s carbon management project CWT’s environmental Global greenhouse gas management T approach he CWT Carbon Management Project lays the foundation for a It consists of two main phases. systematic, company-wide approach to managing the company’s Phase One in 2012: Introduction of a global approach for measuring carbon emissions. The project will produce an overview of CWT’s greenhouse gas emissions. CWT’s carbon carbon footprint and provide a benchmark for future carbon management project reduction efforts at the corporate level. Phase Two in 2013 and 2014: Formulation and broad execution of action programs. These programs will be partly defined by capitalizing on the A broad program, coordinated at the corporate level and designed to support exemplary experience and initiatives of countries, such as the Netherlands the company’s climate change goals, was launched in 2012. and the UK (see pages 64-66) Reducing CWT’s greenhouse gas emissions and Global carbon management project objective T managing energy h e a p p r o a c h i n t r o d u c e d i n 2012 i s d e s i g n e d t o consumption broadly structure and deploy the company’s goals for reducing its own greenhouse gas emissions. It will enable the company to respond more completely and consistently to: More environmental Regulatory reporting requests The Carbon Disclosure Project is a not-for-profit organization of 500 best practices institutional investors holding US$ 64,000 billion in assets throughout in CWT geographies Requests from customers, who integrate the reduction of CO2 from business the world. Its mission is to enlighten the investment decisions of its travel into their environmental strategies members by assessing the carbon performances of the world’s 3,000 largest companies. Employee expectations regarding our societal and environmental Enabling customers responsibilities to be more environmentally friendly External requests from investors or rating agencies, in particular the Carbon Disclosure Project (see box). Copyright © 2013 CWT 59 Contents Chapter 5 Environment 2012 Responsible Business Report CHAPTER 5 Project scope A n accounting and carbon pilot was carried out in the UK, CWT’s environmental France, Germany, and the Netherlands to measure In 2012, CWT carried out a pilot carbon accounting and reporting project approach the precise carbon impact of their internal activities in 2011. in four countries (France, Germany, the Netherlands and the UK) based on their 2011 activities and relying on existing best initiatives in those The program will be expanded during its second phase countries. in 2013 and 2014. Based on experience gained during the pilot phase, CWT’s carbon the greenhouse gas inventory will be enlarged in order to cover countries To learn more: www.carlsonwagonlit.com/en/global/our_company/ management project representing a majority of the company’s revenues. corporate_social_responsibility Reducing CWT’s greenhouse gas emissions and managing energy consumption Pilot project methodology Greenhouse gas emissions sources CWT has drawn up an inventory of its activities according to the Greenhouse Gas Protocol methodology. The inventory includes the following direct and More environmental indirect emissions: best practices CWT has integrated all its direct emissions and some indirect emissions in CWT geographies Energy used by buildings Employee business travel into its 2012 pilot project inventory. Fuel consumption of vehicle fleets Employee commuting Emission factors Enabling customers The emission factors used, compatible with GHG Protocol methodology, are to be more those of the UK Department for Environment, Food and Affairs (Defra) and environmentally friendly the French agency for energy and the environment (ADEME). They include not only CO2 but all greenhouse gases responsible for global warming. Copyright © 2013 CWT 60 Contents Chapter 5 Environment 2012 Responsible Business Report CHAPTER 5 2012 Pilot project results The GHG Protocol, the methodology most often used throughout the world to measure and manage greenhouse gas emissions, defines three categories CWT’s environmental of emission sources (scopes 1, 2 and 3) approach The following were factored into the methodology for CWT’s pilot project: Scope 1 18% Breakdown of Scope 1: direct emissions arising from the combustion of fossil fuels in Scope 3 CWT’s carbon buildings (heating oil and gas), and a portion of professional travel (fuel for greenhouse gas 71% emissions in the 2012 management project the CWT vehicle fleet) Scope 2 pilot project according Scope 2: indirect energy emissions of buildings (electricity and urban heating) 11% to the GHG Protocol Scope 3: indirect emissions including professional travel (excluding the CWT methodology (see box) vehicle fleet) and commuting Reducing CWT’s greenhouse gas emissions and Results of the CWT 2012 pilot project: an annual total of 13,300 metric tons of CO2 equivalent for the four pilot countries (France, Germany, the Netherlands and UK) in 2011. managing energy consumption Buildings Commuting 22% The pilot inventory results show that, as is typical with service companies, Breakdown of 43% most emissions come from business travel (consisting of scope 1 and scope greenhouse gas 3) and employee commuting (from scope 3), which together represent 78% emissions in the 2012 of total emissions. Building-related emissions (from scopes 1 and 2) represent More environmental pilot project according Business travel less than a quarter of total emissions. best practices to emission sources 35% in CWT geographies Enabling customers Outlook for 2013 2014 to be more Following the pilot inventory, CWT will carry out a more extensive inventory of its greenhouse gas emissions in 2013 2014. It will progressively include environmentally friendly the countries which represent a majority of CWT’s revenues. At the same time, the company will further improve the monitoring of energy consumption of buildings and commuting. Copyright © 2013 CWT 61 Contents Chapter 5 Environment 2012 Responsible Business Report CHAPTER 5 Energy consumption of buildings Heating oil Gas Heating oil Gas 3% 3% 35% 28% Nearly 70% of the energ y consumed by buildings consists CWT’s environmental of electricity. The rest consists of gas and a negligible amount approach of heating oil (3%). This data only covers the four pilot countries, and is not representative of the whole company. KWh tCO2e CWT’s carbon Electricity Electricity management project 69% 62% Breakdown of energy Breakdown of greenhouse gas consumption in 2011 emissions from buildings four pilot countries 2011 four pilot countries Reducing CWT’s Train greenhouse gas Plane Plane Train 8% emissions and managing energy Business trips 53% 68% 2% consumption Employees in the four pilot countries traveled more than 28 million kilometers KM tCO2e during 2011. Air travel accounted for more than half, while car travel represented more than Car More environmental Car 30% a third. Rail travel accounted for nearly 10% of the total distance. best practices 39% in CWT geographies Nearly two-thirds of greenhouse gas emissions came from air travel in 2011, Breakdown of kilometres travelled Breakdown of greenhouse gas in 2011 four pilot countries emissions from business trips in and the remaining third is attributed to cars. 2011 four pilot countries Enabling customers In addition to the pilot project, CWT has conducted a separate carbon inventory in France to assess greenhouse gas emissions, reduce environmental to be more impact and respond to new regulatory obligations arising from article 75 of the Grenelle 2 Act. environmentally friendly (see next page: “Focus on the 2011 carbon footprint of CWT’s 3 entities in France: CWT France, CWT Distribution, and CWT Meetings & Events”). Copyright © 2013 CWT 62 Contents Chapter 5 Environment 2012 Responsible Business Report CHAPTER 5 Focus on the 2011 carbon footprint of CWT’s 3 entities in France: CWT France, CWT Distribution, and CWT Meetings & Events CWT’s environmental Methodology: Calculation of greenhouse gas emissions according to the GHG Protocol methodology. Emission factors taken into account were those of the approach “Base Carbone” (ADEME V 7.1). Buildings: Energy consumption was estimated from energy expenditure per supplier. Service charges were not included. Business travel: Business travel included the fuel consumption of leased cars and service vehicles. Fuel consumption of private vehicles for business purposes was estimated from reimbursements per kilometer. Travel by plane and train was extracted from the PMC carbon management system in km and tCO2e. CWT’s carbon Commuting: Commuting trips were estimated from the number of public transport cards reimbursed by CWT, with additional input from French National management project Institute of Statistics (INSEE) studies. Scope: The study was based on CWT CWT France CWT Distribution TOTAL * the three legal entities controlled M&E by CWT in France: CWT Distribution, Scope 1: Direct emissions 455 655 20 1 128 tCO2e Reducing CWT’s CWT France and CWT M&E. These Energy consumption of buildings (gas and heating oil) 155 620 0 776 tCO2e entities have in total about 2,000 greenhouse gas Energy consumption of company cars and full-time-equivalent employees. emissions and 300 35 20 352 tCO2e service vehicles managing energy Scope 2: Indirect emissions 80 120 5 207 tCO2e CWT France represented the majority consumption Electricity consumption of buildings 80 120 5 207 tCO2e of greenhouse gas emissions Scope 3: Other indirect emissions 2 550 1 225 115 3 886 tCO2e ( 59%). CWT Distribution accounted Other emissions due to energy (excluding scopes 1 and 2) for 38% and the remaining 3% CWT 85 75 5 163 tCO2e M&E. Commuting was the main (upstream emissions and online losses) source of emissions for all three More environmental Business trips (train, plane and private cars) 165 50 10 221 tCO2e entities (67%), followed by the best practices Commuting trips 2 300 1 100 100 3 501 tCO2e energy consumption of buildings in CWT geographies TOTAL 3 085 2 000 140 5 220 tCO2e (21%) and business travel (12%). *Note: Numbers may not add due to rounding Enabling customers to be more In 2011, greenhouse gas emissions from activities in France represented 5,220 metric tons of CO2 equivalent ( tCO2 e), i.e. 39% of greenhouse gas environmentally friendly emissions from the four countries included in the company’s pilot project. Copyright © 2013 CWT 63 Contents Chapter 5 Environment 2012 Responsible Business Report CHAPTER 5 Reducing CWT’s greenhouse gas CWT’s environmental emissions and managing energy approach consumption CWT’s carbon management project Energy efficiency in buildings CWT actively seeks to reduce the environmental impact of its offices. Here are examples of energy consumption management in Reducing CWT’s the UK and Netherlands. greenhouse gas emissions and CWT Netherlands lighting. Awareness campaigns have also been conducted to encourage staff managing energy Whenever new premises are selected, they must be energy efficient and to economize electricity. CWT UK has undertaken to open a dialogue with the environmentally friendly, such as the new CWT offices in Arnhem, Eindhoven owners of its offices to explore various way of reducing energy costs. consumption and The Hague. CWT Netherlands is also actively reducing the environmental impact of existing buildings, notably at the unit’s head office in Diemen. In 2012, CWT UK retained its category A rating with Achilles Verify, an accreditation which evaluates and monitors Efforts aim to reduce the company’s carbon footprint while optimizing sustainable procurement in the energy industry. The expenditure linked to energy consumption in a context of rising prices. company improved its accreditation score to an average More environmental value of 96% across all categories. CWT UK has won best practices CWT United Kingdom certification – which involves rigorous evaluation of candidates’ quality, in CWT geographies In the UK over the past three years, CWT has introduced a company-wide environmental and health & safety management systems, including training, Environmental Management System and achieved ISO 14001 accreditation. operations, and equipment – every year since 2010. The 2012 scores were The company has been recognized by a number of organizations, including 12% higher than the industry average score for health and safety assessment the UK Government’s Department of Environment, Food and Rural Affairs and 14% higher for environment. Enabling customers (Defra), for its sustainability performance. to be more CWT Germany, which obtained ISO 14001 certification in 2012, is also environmentally friendly In addition, as part of the implementation of the ISO 14001 environmental introducing measures to improve the energy efficiency of its buildings. standard, motion detectors have been installed in a number of offices to control Copyright © 2013 CWT 64 Contents Chapter 5 Environment 2012 Responsible Business Report CHAPTER 5 Controlling CO2 emissions linked to employee travel Few examples: CWT’s environmental approach In the Netherlands, the‘‘Our Work@ Several countries select their vehicle The company also sometimes Home’’ program has made it possible fleets according to environmental encourages the use of public to set up remote working procedures criteria and energy efficiency. Thanks transport, car sharing and bicycles. while respecting all legal health and to the use of cleaner vehicles, CWT For example, when an employee CWT’s carbon safety requirements. Employees use UK reduced its greenhouse gas event was held in 2012, CWT UK management project the latest technologies to maintain emissions significantly between calculated the environmental impact close links with their colleagues 2008 and 2011 from 480 to 162 of employee travel to the event, from home. In 2011, more than metric tons of CO2. and encouraged the use of more 75 employees (about ¼ of the sustainable modes of transport, such population in NL) work this way for as trains and shared cars provided Reducing CWT’s at least half of their weekly working at rail stations and airports. In this greenhouse gas hours. way, 35% of participants helped emissions and reduce the environmental impact managing energy of the event. consumption More environmental Controlling IT energy consumption I best practices in CWT geographies n IT, as in other domains, the company aims to reduce electricity consumption and its carbon footprint. In France, a program to reduce the number of servers, facilitate maintenance and replace printers produced significant results, reducing the company’s environmental Enabling customers impact. to be more environmentally friendly Copyright © 2013 CWT 65 Contents Chapter 5 Environment 2012 Responsible Business Report CHAPTER 5 More environmental best practices CWT’s environmental in CWT geographies approach Encouraging responsible purchasing Reducing and recycling waste CWT’s carbon management project CWT recognizes the importance of responsible purchasing. For example Carlson Wagonlit Travel sorts and recycles its waste in a number of countries. since January 2012, CWT Netherlands has been using a program that closely monitors the validity of its suppliers’ certification. This means that the In 2010/2011, CWT Netherlands rolled out a new method to collect spent proportion of purchases from certified suppliers is measured and tracked in printer cartridges, combined with a reduction in the number of multifunctional relation to total purchases. In 2012, 67% of purchase contracts were signed printers in use. With new software to monitor cartridge usage, CWT Netherlands Reducing CWT’s with certified suppliers, guaranteeing the origin, quality and compliance of began tracking printer cartridge recycling in 2011. Now, printer cartridges are greenhouse gas products. systematically recycled. emissions and managing energy Meanwhile, in the UK, collection points for various materials have been introduced for paper, plastic, metal, mobile phones, batteries and printer cartridges as part consumption of a Waste Resources Action Plans reduction program. Similar office waste Preserving natural resources reduction and recycling efforts are underway in the U.S. and Canada. The company progressively encourages employees to limit the use of paper and use electronic documents as much as possible. For example, CWT CWT Hong Kong was also recognized under the Caring Company Logo More environmental Germany uses only environmentally friendly paper (supplied by Deutsche award for their “Caring for the Environment” achievements. Highlighted best practices Papier VertriebsGmbH) and participates in the “Carbon Neutral Paper” initiatives included their implementation of mechanisms to minimize energy in CWT geographies project organized by Climate PartnerGmbH. As a further step to support the consumption throughout their office premises; recycling of used paper; battle against climate change, the company also supports the VER (verified reducing paper wastage; choosing a shark’s-fin-free menu for their employee emission reduction units) hydro-electric power project in Pueblo Nuevo Viñas, annual party; and CO2 emissions tracking for travelers through our travel Guatemala. program management tool. CWT Hong Kong also donated second-hand Enabling customers computers and equipment to Caritas HK Computer Workshop, who, in turn, to be more refurbished these computer sets and provided at low price or for free to the environmentally friendly needy, public schools and other Welfare Service Organizations. Copyright © 2013 CWT 66 Contents Chapter 5 Environment 2012 Responsible Business Report CHAPTER 5 Reducing and recycling waste (Continued) In the Americas, efforts to reduce the environmental impact of the company’s own activities are piloted by a CWT Americas Environmental Committee, CWT’s environmental which focuses on: approach Green printing – encourages reduced levels of printing by all employees by raising awareness and teaching people how to save paper. CWT’s carbon management project Green kitchen – strives to make kitchen and break room spaces at CWT offices more green by converting to reusable and washable dishes and utensils, using environmentally friendly cleaning products, etc. Green supplier – encourages preferred suppliers to respect our Reducing CWT’s commitment to the environment by requesting that they avoid printing greenhouse gas presentations or other documents, avoid using disposable products emissions and when bringing in food, etc. managing energy Recycling initiative – works with CWT offices across the U.S. and consumption Canada to ensure they are equipped to facilitate on-site recycling. CWT arranges third-party pick-up service in leased buildings where such recycling services are not already provided. Green power group – advocates for reduced use of gas and electricity More environmental through employee communication and education. The group conducts best practices an annual assessment of CWT Americas’ Carbon Dioxide Equivalent, in CWT geographies or carbon footprint, helping to drive continual reductions in emissions. Eco-friendly paper purchasing – currently exploring the potential for CWT to increasingly purchase eco-friendly paper products. Enabling customers to be more environmentally friendly Copyright © 2013 CWT 67 Contents Chapter 5 Environment 2012 Responsible Business Report CHAPTER 5 Enabling customers to be more CWT’s environmental environmentally friendly approach One of the most significant opportunities for CWT to contribute to the protection of the environment is by helping clients reduce the environmental impact of their travel. We achieve this by providing information that can influence their travel decisions and enable them to reduce their carbon CWT’s carbon footprint. management project At each stage of its service chain, CWT proposes services and tools to help customers make their sustainable development policies more effective. Reducing CWT’s greenhouse gas emissions and 1 Pre-travel reservations 2 3 managing energy Management consumption Ticketing & billing & optimization Calculate projected CO2 Benefit from e-tickets Measure CO2 emissions emissions with CWT Carbon for air & rail travel with CWT Program More environmental Calculator Management Center best practices in CWT geographies Evaluate potential alternatives Reduce paper consumption Inform business travelers with CWT Telepresence electronic fiscal documents with CWT Policy Messenger Enabling customers to be more environmentally friendly Copyright © 2013 CWT 68 Contents Chapter 5 Environment 2012 Responsible Business Report CHAPTER 5 Contributing to the sustainability of our clients’ travels CWT’s environmental approach CWT ‘s approach is to ensure that travelers have the tools and information to incorporate environmental considerations into business decisions: Calculating CO2 emissions CWT’s carbon The CWT Carbon Calculator is a tool available to travelers as they research and book travel. It enables them to compare management project carbon emissions generated by various options, including various airlines and air vs. rail decisions on routes where both modes are available. This tool assesses the CO2 impact of the trip depending on the itinerary, type of transport and flight class (if air travel is involved).The simulator uses Defra methodology. Reducing CWT’s greenhouse gas Some countries, such as the Netherlands, systematically provide CO2 emissions as part of trip data, helping to sensitize emissions and travelers to environmental issues. managing energy Reducing paper consumption ENVIRONMENT consumption CWT also helps reduce paper consumption through e-documents. Invoices are no longer printed; they are created, Principles 7, 8, 9 hosted and archived on an online portal. This solution also makes it possible to save up to 70% on the cost of processing an invoice, and to preserve natural resources. 98% of CWT customers have adopted this procedure. CWT also proposes e-tickets to customers. (see box) More environmental best practices in CWT geographies Enabling customers The increasing use of virtual, e-tickets is significantly reducing the quantity of paper consumed by customers. CWT has been systematically distributing to be more plane e-tickets for a number of years. Since early 2010, CWT has also actively participated in the development of e-tickets for the French national environmentally friendly railway (SNCF). Copyright © 2013 CWT 69 Contents Chapter 5 Environment 2012 Responsible Business Report CHAPTER 5 Greenhouse gas emissions dashboard A ll clients have access to the CWT Program Management CWT’s environmental Center, a tool that provides carbon emissions reporting and approach gives clients a comprehensive view of their travel program’s environmental impact. The tool’s dashboard can provide a range of information, such as carbon emission per period, per traveler, etc. What is more, projected carbon emissions for any given trip can CWT’s carbon be compared to actual, post-trip calculations. management project Emissions management Based on the reporting, travel managers can benchmark environmental impact, creating a baseline enabling them to actively reduce the carbon footprint of their business travelers. Reducing CWT’s greenhouse gas Offsetting greenhouse emissions and Homepage of the personalized CWT Program Management Center, managing energy showing a graph for a company’s CO2 emissions consumption gas emissions Some customers want to go one step further and offset the residual emissions of their travel. This is why CWT offers a carbon offset service to all of its clients. Carbon offsets can be arranged through the London based Carbon Neutral More environmental Company, the Climate Neutral Group in Utrecht, the Netherlands, or any best practices other preferred party. in CWT geographies Enabling customers Proposing travel alternatives to be more environmentally friendly CWT Telepresence customer tool provides an alternative to physical travel through teleconferencing. Copyright © 2013 CWT 70 Contents Chapter 5 Environment 2012 Responsible Business Report CHAPTER 5 Best practices in the UK: Best practices in the Netherlands: CWT’s environmental Estimating the overall cost of travel approach CWT UK’s Total Impact Report provides clients with a consolidated view of Integrated Compensation to the cost of business travel, including environmental impact. It focuses on three critical areas of cost and emissions impact: ticket cost, productivity of government customers the individual while travelling and carbon offset cost. By awarding a value to Integrated Compensation involves integrating the direct costs of CWT’s carbon each of these elements, especially when reviewing domestic UK mainland travel with the cost of carbon offsets for a particular trip. It enables management project travel, it is possible to see that, while some routes are cheaper at face value travel managers to avoid unwieldy, annual or semi-annual lump-sum when only ticket price is considered, the consolidation of the total impact compensation payments by allocating compensation costs to specific may show, for example, that rail travel can be the more cost-effective option. cost centers or travelers. The Integrated Compensation program has been implemented in close cooperation with the Climate Neutral Group. Reducing CWT’s Defra greenhouse gas Green Feather 2010 emissions and CWT UK was recognized by Department for Environment, Food and Rural managing energy Affairs (Defra) for helping the department achieve its sustainability objectives. CWT Netherlands has been awarded the ‘Greenest Initiative 2010 Feather’ One example included CWT encouraging a modal shift in transport choice for initiatives in the field of sustainability. The Dutch travel trade journal consumption from air to rail to reduce emissions. This helped Defra achieve its Sustainable TravMagazine presents Feather awards annually. They go to travel agents Operations on the Government Estate (SOGE) targets for business travel. that offer the best range in a specific category. The sector views the Feathers Entries were judged by Defra’s Procurement and Contracts Division, senior as a leading professional award. managers and a sustainability advisor. More environmental best practices GBTA Project ICARUS in CWT geographies CWT is proud to be an Advisory Committee Member of GBTA Project ICARUS – Europe. Project ICARUS is an initiative of the GBTA that conducts research, provides education and promotes Enabling customers sustainability in the business travel and meetings sectors. to be more CWT is the only travel management company engaged environmentally friendly in Project ICARUS, sharing experiences with others to facilitate an industry-wide shift to sustainable solutions. Copyright © 2013 CWT 71 Contents CHAPTER 6 Responsible Products and Services Business continuity CWT Travel Stress Index CWT Meeting Optimizer Contents Chapter 6 Responsible Products and Services 2012 Responsible Business Report CHAPTER 6 Business continuity Business continuity: Essential for sustainability A sustainable business is one where critical functions continue to be Business continuity performed even under the most challenging conditions. CWT’s Business Continuity Plan is designed to ensure ongoing service, consistency and recoverability in the event of a disruption and/or incident affecting any of the company’s wholly owned offices. T CWT Travel Stress Index he CWT Business Continuity Plan (BCP) aims to ensure that, in Business Continuity is not something the event of a disruption, implemented at the time of a critical functions remain disaster. It refers to those activities available for customers, suppliers, performed daily to maintain service, regulators and other entities. The consistency and recoverability. Business BCP is based on a formal Business Continuity Policy and is managed With 24/7 worldwide operations, Continuity Planning is a methodology CWT Meeting Optimizer that is followed by everyone in the according to three key performance the travel industry is vulnerable to indicators. As part of its mission, numerous risks and threats. CWT organization on a daily basis to ensure the CW T Business Continuity recognizes that preparedness for normal operations. Management team is responsible a crisis is critical to the long term for tracking implementation as well resilience of its business. In the event as crisis management. of a crisis situation, a swift response is Isabelle Bousquet, Senior Director, essential to the organization’s ability Business Continuity and Crisis Management to meet its operational objectives and priorities. Therefore CWT has established a Corporate Crisis Team to take over global coordination in the event of a crisis. Copyright © 2013 CWT 73 Contents Chapter 6 Responsible Products and Services 2012 Responsible Business Report CHAPTER 6 Business Continuity Plan: Robust business continuity The Business Continuity Plan for each company site is built around planning and validation three phases: preparation, activation and recovery. The plan includes checklists for each phase. For example, the Preparation phase Business continuity checklist describes actions to be T undertaken before any event occurs The company’s BCP It provides guidelines and a while the Recovery phase checklist covers a wide variety framework for CWT managers to describes action to be undertaken to of potential incidents, ensure appropriate management return to normal operations. from local to regional of disruptions and/or incidents CWT Travel disruptions. Potential affecting CWT as an organization. Every CWT office must test its BCP Stress Index activity disruptions include events and conduct at least two drills such as those resulting from the In addition to wholly owned every year. Corporate policy also failure of a CWT infrastructure countries, the requirement applies requires that all managers and component or a major event to CWT’s joint venture companies in BCP owners attend an initial BCP affecting the travel industry. In China, Indonesia and Japan. It also corporate training session and that many cases, the impact on CWT is applies to all support locations, such all staff attend Business Continuity a surge in demand as a result of, for as HQ offices, dedicated Business awareness training through CWT example, a strike action affecting a Travel Centers, U.S. military and University. CWT Meeting Optimizer carrier or flight controllers, weather government services, dedicated conditions impacting one airport, or Meeting and Events locations Company policy stipulates that a the grounding of a specific aircraft worldwide, and dedicated Energy “BCP owner” must be identified in type by an airline or manufacturer and Services offices. each CWT office. The BCP owner causing flight cancellations in a is responsible for completing, region. The Business Continuity Plan updating and maintaining the takes into account six scenarios: office’s Business Continuity Plan, CWT requires all of its wholly fire, pandemic, natural disaster, for ensuring training and training owned entities to have a detailed power outage, workplace violence records for all employees, and for Business Continuity Plan, built and IT and telecom failure. Plans ensuring that an audit is performed. upon a template developed by to manage IT and/or telecom Audits must be performed once a the company’s Corporate Business disruption are defined by IT and year, via the company’s Operational Continuity/Crisis department. telecom organization and managers. Excellence program. Copyright © 2013 CWT 74 Contents Chapter 6 Responsible Products and Services 2012 Responsible Business Report CHAPTER 6 Dashboard page: Watching and warning system to track and manage disruptions and responses T he CWT crisis monitoring system ensures timely activation of the Business continuity Corporate Crisis Team, with the company’s London Emergency Service Center (ESC) serving as the watchtower of CWT’s global network. In the event of a disruption/incident, the London Emergency Service Center is notified as soon as a local Business Continuity Plan (BCP) is activated. In CWT Travel addition to initial notification, every company site is required to update the Stress Index London ESC regularly as conditions evolve. The London ESC uses an analysis chart to evaluate the level of severity of the situation from 1 to 3 (see figure for traffic light). In the event of circumstances that cannot be adequately managed through activation of the local BCP, and/or country/regional teams, the London ESC is responsible for activating the Corporate Crisis Team (CCT) and the Crisis Communication Group (CCG). The Center collects all relevant available information and organizes initial CWT Meeting Optimizer briefings for the Corporate Crisis Team. Level 3: Escalate to global leadership with activation of the Corporate Crisis Team (CCT) Level 2: Monitor with country/regional support Level 1: Not critical; but monitor Levels of severity for emergency situation assessment Copyright © 2013 CWT 75 Contents Chapter 6 Responsible Products and Services 2012 Responsible Business Report CHAPTER 6 Disruption report and database C ompany sites send notifications and updates to the London The relevant crisis team (regional or corporate) will coordinate management ESC using a downloadable disruption report form. The Center of the situation with all locations involved. Business continuity manages a database to record and describe all disruptions reported per site. This data is used to provide semi-annual In the event of a crisis, CWT’s Corporate Crisis Team aims to: statistics to countries, regions and program management teams on the number and types of disruptions per site. Secure the immediate safety Ensure appropriate action to and well being of CWT avoid re-occurrence Crisis management employees and customers CWT Travel Protect our assets and maintain B Stress Index Inform all stakeholders normal operations or, if normal y their very nature, crisis events are unpredictable. The success operations cannot be of CWT’s response depends upon the capacity to act quickly Manage financial and legal maintained, resume the highest and decisively with limited information and unknown variables consequences possible level of operations as well as the ability to articulate the way forward for all staff. within the shortest possible time A crisis is a major disruption (such as fire, pandemic, natural disaster, power outage, workplace violence to an employee, IT and telecom failure, etc.) Business Continuity Management KPIs CWT Meeting Optimizer directly affecting the CWT organization and not solved only by activation of By the end of 2013 the Business Continuity Plan. 1. All CWT wholly owned offices (50 countries) have a A crisis can also be a situation of major disruption/incident potentially affecting Business Continuity Plan (BCP) in place, which is the safety and security of travelers. documented and tested, with two drills completed. A situation is also considered a crisis when the reputation and/or the brand 2. A dashboard will be in place to monitor the total number of the company are exposed and/or when a CWT employee is physically and types of incidents in all wholly owned CWT countries injured during the course of his/her work. (excluding IT & telecom incidents) All disruptions/incidents shall be reported to regional and/or headquarters 3. All executive members of the Corporate Crisis Team will be management in order to ensure the timely activation of the relevant crisis trained and will have participated in a full activation drill. organization. Copyright © 2013 CWT 76 Contents Chapter 6 Responsible Products and Services 2012 Responsible Business Report CHAPTER 6 CWT Travel Stress Index CWT’s innovative Travel Stress Index helps clients improve traveler well being and increase corporate productivity C Business continuity ompanies are responsible Business Travelers (October 2012) and travel as a strategic means to grow and for the well being of their The Hidden Costs of Business Travel compete effectively in the marketplace. To learn more, employees and CWT is (April 2013). In the first study, based More importantly, business travel has an visit the CWT Solutions looking to help clients on the responses of 6,000 business impact on a company’s most important Group website at address the stress that travelers, CWT found three main asset: its employees. For these reasons, CWT Travel www.cwt-solutionscan be associated with regular categories of stress: lost time, surprises other areas of the organization, such as Stress Index business travel. As part of CWT’s and routine-breakers. Human Resources and Responsible group.com continued focus on business travelers, Business, may be involved in making CWT Solutions Group, together In the second study, leveraging travel policy decisions. The CWT Travel with the Global Product Innovation nine data sources (including 15.3 million Stress Index, as a decision-making tool, team, launched the CWT Travel air transactions), CWT developed an will help our clients assess and adjust Stress Index in Q2 2013. The CWT algorithm to quantifiably measure travel their travel policies, and move from Travel Stress Index seeks to quantify stress and its corresponding impact on “travel policy” to “traveler policy.” the cost to the organization of the an organization. The results show that CWT Meeting Optimizer stress that employees can incur from the actual lost time (caused by traveltraveling, and use that information related stress) is on average 6.9 hours to help buyers make better travel per trip. The largest contributions to this With the Travel Stress Index, CWT offers policy decisions. Without this lost time arise from flying economy a different way to look at duty of care, information, many organizations class on medium and long-haul flights introducing the dimension of people to focus on small savings gained on (2.1 hours) and getting to the airport/ a short-term basis when they can train station (1.1 hours). The financial decisions on travel programs and policy actually achieve significant ones through equivalent of this 6.9 hours is US$ 662. which today are organized according a longer-term approach. to spend, safety and security and CO2 This type of examination enables emissions. As of the publication of this report, organizations to understand that beyond CWT Solutions Group has released the purely transactional aspect of the Vincent Lebunetel, Senior Director, two whitepapers: Stress Triggers for trip, they should recognize business CWT Solutions Group, Europe, Middle East & Africa Copyright © 2013 CWT 77 Contents Chapter 6 Responsible Products and Services 2012 Responsible Business Report CHAPTER 6 Business continuity Infographie CWT Travel Stress Index CWT Meeting Optimizer CWT Travel Stress Index—allows you to assess the impact of travel-related stress on an organization’s productivity levels. By quantifying that stress and its cost, CWT aims to help companies make smarter travel policy decisions. Copyright © 2013 CWT 78 Contents Chapter 6 Responsible Products and Services 2012 Responsible Business Report CHAPTER 6 CWT Meeting Optimizer Helping clients include environmental impact in meetings & events decisions Business continuity ENVIRONMENT Principles 7, 8, 9 A CWT Travel Stress Index Travel alternatives s part of its effort to help clients reduce their environmental impact, CWT has developed a unique on-line tool enabling clients to make environmentally optimal meeting and event decisions. The CWT Meeting Optimizer uses a CWT-developed, O patent-pending algorithm to take into account all CWT air, hotel and virtual meeting data, evaluating hundreds of thousands of combination ne way to reduce the environmental impact of a travel program possibilities. The results enable companies to select meeting destinations is by reducing travel altogether, by directing some types of travel based on the amount of carbon emissions expended to transport attendees to alternatives, such as web-conferencing or telepresence. CWT Meeting Optimizer to various locations. The CWT Telepresence offering helps clients redirect traveler behavior by handling the booking of telepresence rooms, with To use the CWT Meeting Optimizer, meeting organizers simply enter basic reporting that helps clients understand their total volumes for travel and travel meeting information (name, dates, and departing locations for all participants). alternatives and identifying areas for further improvement. The online tool then generates a list of potential worldwide destinations, including telepresence rooms, creating a prioritized list of potential venues. Destinations are ranked by overall cost, CO2 emissions, or total mileage according to the particular input details, search criteria and user profile settings. In addition to the CWT Meeting Optimizer, the CWT Green Meetings Calculator enables clients to measure the environmental impact of various options for destinations, transportation, lodging, communications and signage, venue selection, and food/beverage choices. Copyright © 2013 CWT 79 Contents CHAPTER 7 Community Involvement Our community involvement Programs Contents Chapter 7 Community Involvement 2012 Responsible Business Report CHAPTER 7 Our community involvement Playing an active role in local communities Our community involvement As part of our commitment to act as a responsible corporate citizen worldwide, CWT is actively involved in supporting the local communities where we do business. Our commitment comes to life through a variety of local initiatives to encourage and empower our people to support meaningful local community programs. I Programs n 2011 and 2012, CWT suppor ted dozens of benevolent activities worldwide, through a combination of direct company backing and company support for employees engaged in goodwill activities. In addition to financial contributions to worthy organizations, CWT support for philanthropic initiatives involved employee volunteering, employee donations and other forms. While they covered a wide range of social and community development programs, these initiatives largely focused on three areas: health, youth and homelessness. Selected examples are described in the next few pages. Copyright © 2013 CWT 81 Contents Chapter 7 Community Involvement 2012 Responsible Business Report CHAPTER 7 Programs Local involvement Our community Live examples: health involvement E ach year, CWT teams in the In 2011, two volunteer initiatives recruiting more disabled persons Black Dog Institute is a not-for-profit UK and Ireland target by the employees of CWT Denmark and improving their work conditions educational, research, clinical and a particular combined a focus on health with a to internal training and awareness community-oriented facility offering charitable concern for children. With company programs. specialist expertise in depression and initiative. In January support, employees donated to the bipolar disorder. Programs 2011, the compacountry’s Child Cancer Foundation At CWT France headquarters, ny’s employees as well as the World Childhood employees were encouraged to CWT North America provided voted to support Great Ormond Foundation. support Handicap International by support for a range of health-related Street Hospital Children’s Charity. participating in the organization’s 10 organizations and initiatives, including This charity exists to support Great Employees at CWT Italy likewise km foot race and 5 km walk in May the American Heart Association Heart Ormond Street Hospital (GOSH), supported children’s health during 2012. The company paid the event Walk, Bottle Caps for Cancer and the a world-leading children’s hospital 2011 through monthly contributions registration fee for all participating National Multiple Sclerosis Society created in of clothing, toys, furniture and other employees. Specialized in the field MS Walk. London in items to the charitable association of of disability, Handicap International 1852. During the the Bambino Gesù Children’s Hospital is a non-governmental, non-religious, CWT North America leaders course of our partnership employees in Rome. non-political and non-profit participate in the Carlson Executive were able to raise a total of £24,000 organization that works alongside Matching Grant Program, which for the charity. In 2012, the compaMultiple CWT teams in France people with disabilities, offering them enables executives to double the ny’s employees chose Macmillan provided a range assistance and supporting them in impact of their charitable donations Cancer Support as charity partner, of support for their efforts to become self-reliant. to eligible nonprofit organizations. for which they raised more than La Mission Handicap, £20,000. CWT is working with an entity within CWT In 2011, the Black Dog Institute was “Charity Champions” at each locaFrance focused on one of several charitable organizations tion in the UK and Ireland to set up creating more opportunities for the supported with donations from CWT fundraising tools. disabled. Initiatives ranged from Australia/New Zealand. The Copyright © 2013 CWT 82 Contents Chapter 7 Community Involvement 2012 Responsible Business Report CHAPTER 7 Doctors Without Borders Carlson Wagonlit Travel Germany has been supporting Doctors without Borders since 2006. The organization works in nearly 70 countries, providing medical aid to those most in need regardless of their race, religion or political affiliation. As part of its “Giving Our community Instead of Gifting” campaign, Carlson Wagonlit Travel Germany involvement sends E-cards instead of paper cards and donates a fixed amount to Doctors without Borders rather than giving out Christmas presents. Programs Local support Live examples: homelessness and affordable housing A s a corporate build a home in the Denver area. Habitat is getting support from other sponsor, CW T CWT further supported Habitat by CWT units as well. In 2012, CWT Nor th America making the partnership a central Egypt donated funds to cover the supported Habitat theme of its client event at the cost of building a new house for a for Humanity Global Business Travel Association’s homeless family. in multiple ways in 2011. The annual conference in Denver. The non-profit organization has helped so-called “Impact on the Gridiron” Leading up to the holiday season to build more than 500,000 decent, event was recognized by PR News’ in December 2011, CWT in Lille, affordable houses and served 2.5 CSR Awards in the ‘Event: CSR/ France provided support for Restos million people worldwide since Green Focus’ category. In addition, du Coeur, a non-profit organization its foundation in 1976. In North various CWT teams and individual that provides aid to the needy and America, CWT provided financial employees have long volunteered homeless. Employees donated support and volunteer labor from with local Habitat affiliates around food, health products, clothing, bed employees, clients, and partners to North America. linens and toys. Copyright © 2013 CWT 83 Contents Chapter 7 Community Involvement 2012 Responsible Business Report CHAPTER 7 Local solidarity Live examples: childhood E mployees at CWT the first U.S.-based global travel and CWT Americas wraps CWT teams in Italy provided support Our community Chile provided goods, hospitality company to sign the Code up each calendar year in both 2011 and 2012 to Occhi sul involvement food, clothing, school of Business Ethics and Conduct for with two weeks of Terzo Mondo Onlus (Eyes on the materials, Christmas the Protection of Children from Sexual organized community Third World), a non-profit group gifts and more to the Exploitation in Travel and Tourism. giving surrounding the holiday focused on education, vocational Manos y Naturaleza child support The Code is a voluntary initiative season, including donations to training, employment, health care center in 2011. The center supports developed by End Child Prostitution, area food shelves, holiday toy and hospitality. Since its founding disadvantaged children in two Child Pornography and Trafficking of collections, and group volunteer in 2003, Occhi sul Terzo Mondo neighborhoods in Santiago de Children for Sexual Purposes (ECPAT) activities. The activities are part Onlus has helped create nursery Chile. Employees also contributed in collaboration with the United of a broader employee initiative schools and secondary schools in Programs to the Centro de Retos Múltiples Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF) focused on responsible business Madagascar, Brazil, Swaziland, Kenya, Luz y Esperanza, a home for children and the World Tourism Organization. (Help your community), team Congo Brazzaville, India and Uganda. with mental retardation. As a Carlson company, CWT joins this recognition (Enjoy your team combat by supporting this initiative. and Applaud great work), In 2011, CWT became employee wellness (Reward the first global travel In 2012, CWT’s GBTA event was yourself), and communication management company held at Boston’s Symphony Hall (Tell us about it online). This to educate travelers and showcased the students initiative has been known as about child sex tourism and provide who participate in Project STEP, a the 10 Days of H.E.A.R.T. a means for reporting suspicious charitable organization that provides activity. Advisories are included on underprivileged children classical electronic itineraries issued in the musical instruction and other In Australia/ New Zealand, United States to destinations mentorship to which they would a weekly, company-sponsored known for the sexual exploitation of not otherwise have access. Thanks lottery provided funding in 2011 for children. The advisories are intended to Project STEP’s role in these the Starlight Children’s Foundation, to raise awareness of this illegal students’ lives, every graduate of which helps improve the quality of practice and provide travelers with the the program has gone on to pursue life for children around the world phone number for the U.S. Human higher education, and in some cases suffering from chronic and lifeTrafficking Hotline. In addition, CWT’s a professional musical career, when threatening illnesses and life-altering majority shareholder, Carlson, was most otherwise would not have. injuries. Copyright © 2013 CWT 84 Contents Chapter 7 Community Involvement 2012 Responsible Business Report CHAPTER 7 More actions O pportunities for giving are virtually limitless. While CWT focused In Italy, CWT is a corporate Golden Donor to Fonda Ambiente Italiano (FAI), on initiatives linked to health, childhood and homelessness in the national trust of Italy. A private, non-profit group, FAI supports protection 2011, other community involvement actions were prompted by and restoration of artistic heritage, owning properties including castles, gardens, Our community natural disasters or threats. For example, CWT Australia/New monastic buildings and other cultural assets in Italy. A competition was held for involvement Zealand contributed funds to the 2011 Queensland Appeal employees with winners receiving free admission to an FAI exhibition. from Floods as well as the Christchurch Earthquake appeal. When the H1N1 flu virus threatened to strike France in 2009, CWT people in Lyon donated funds In February 2013, CWT Hong Kong was awarded the Caring Company to the Red Cross to purchase surgical masks. Logo by The Hong Kong Council of Social Service (HKCSS) for their various responsible business achievements. One of the domains covered by In 2012, CWT Netherlands supported NL DOET, the country’s largest volunteer the award is “Caring for the Community.” CWT Hong Kong’s community initiative, organized by the Oranje Fonds. The Oranje Fonds, which focuses on involvement activities included conducting two visits to the elderly in Kwai social welfare in the Netherlands, helps promote participation in society by Chung Estate, participating in Hong Kong’s Flag Day (a day dedicated to Programs bringing people together, or enabling them to find a new place in society. CWT government-approved charitable fundraising), providing volunteer services Netherlands operates an annual charitable donation program. Organizations that to run a game booth for children in a shopping mall, and other general have received support over the last few years include the Liliane Foundation, community services. which helps ensure that children with disabilities in developing countries take a full and active part in everyday life, Unicef, the Ronald McDonald Children’s Fund, Stichting Doe een Wens (Make-a-Wish Netherlands) and Stichting Kappen Nou!, which combats senseless violence in society. All charitable institutions are Carlson Community Giving Campaign in carefully selected by CWT’s management team. As of January 2012, CWT offers the United States its employees in the Netherlands the possibility of spending one working day per year volunteering to serve the community. Employees are free to choose a In the U.S., CWT employees provide annual financial foundation, organization or charity that they would like to support. support to a mix of opportunities that make an impact in the community locally, nationally and internationally through the Carlson Community Giving Campaign. CWT participates in the campaign alongside one of its parent companies, Carlson, and other Carlson business units. Current campaign partners include the Greater Twin Cities United Way, American Diabetes Association, American Heart Association, American Cancer Society, Global Impact, and the Minnesota Environmental Fund. Copyright © 2013 CWT 85 Contents CHAPTER 8 Glossary Contents Chapter 8 Glossary 2012 Responsible Business Report CHAPTER 8 C Glossary C arbon Footprint Carbon Offsetting environmental and ethical terms. are considered negligent, and any 1] A carbon footprint, or A carbon offset is a reduction in In UN Global Compact definition, it damages resulting may be claimed D corporate greenhouse gas or sequestration of emissions of covers all principles and issue areas in a lawsuit for negligence. (GHG) inventory, is an accounting of carbon dioxide or other greenhouse of the Global Compact. The terms G a company’s operational emissions. gases, made in order to compensate “corporate sustainability”, “corporate reenhouse Gas (GHG) The most common GHG is carbon for or to offset an emission made responsibility” and “sustainability” are Protocol G dioxide (CO 2 ), which is why elsewhere. Carbon offsets are usually used interchangeably. Th e G r e e n h o u s e G a s greenhouse gases are often referred measured in tonnes of carbon dioxide Protocol (GHG Protocol), a decadeD to as “carbon”, however there are equivalent (tCO2e), a measure used efra long partnership between the I six different GHGs that make up an to compare the impact of greenhouse See United Kingdom DepartWorld Resources Institute (WRI) organization’s carbon footprint; gases based on their global warming ment for Environment, Food and the World Business Council potential (GWP). Carbon offsets are and Rural Affairs (Defra). for Sustainable Development 2] A Carbon Footprint is a measure derived from projects such as tree(WBCSD), is the most widely used K of the impact human activities (e.g., planting or renewable energy, etc. Due Diligence international accounting tool for individuals, organizations or regions) Comprehensive, proactive process government and business leaders to have on the environment in terms Corporate Greenhouse Gas to identify the actual and potential understand, quantify, and manage of the amount of greenhouse (GHG) Inventory negative social, environmental greenhouse gas emissions. Official N gases produced, measured in units See Carbon Footprint. and economic impacts of an website: www.ghgprotocol.org of carbon dioxide (CO2) or carbon organization’s decisions and dioxide equivalent (to account for Corporate Social Responsibility activities over the entire life cycle of a Greenhouse Gases O the global warming potential). Corporate Social Responsibility project or organizational activity, with Gases that cause climate change. (CSR) is often used as a synonym the aim of avoiding and mitigating The gases covered under the Kyoto Carbon Neutral for sustainability programs of negative impacts. Protocol are carbon dioxide (CO2), “Carbon Neutral” and “Climate Neutral”. organizations. Companies commit methane (CH4), nitrous oxide R Companies can compensate for CO2 themselves to be good citizens with Duty of Care (N20), hydro fluorocarbon (HFCs), emissions by offsetting. By compensating principles around environmental, A requirement that a person act per fluorocarbons (PFCs) and sulfur 100 percent of their emissions, social, ethical and other dimensions toward others and the public with hexafluoride (SF6). See Carbon they can claim to be “carbon neutral”. of sustainability. watchfulness, attention, caution Footprint. S By offsetting not only CO2 emissions and prudence that a reasonable but also the climate impact Corporate Sustainability person in the circumstances would. Global Compact of other greenhouse gases, an organization A company’s delivery of longIf a person’s actions do not meet See United Nations Global Compact can make itself “climate neutral.” term value in financial, social, this standard of care, then the acts (UNGC). U Copyright © 2013 CWT 87 Contents Chapter 8 Glossary 2012 Responsible Business Report CHAPTER 8 N Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) and definitions related to social on-Government decisions and activities on society C The Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) responsibility; the background, Organization (NGO) and the environment. is a non-profit organization that trends and characteristics of A Non-Government works towards a sustainable global social responsibility; principles Organization (NGO) is a legal Sphere of Influence economy by providing sustainability and practices relating to social entity created by private persons or Range/extent of political, contractual, D reporting guidance. For more on responsibility; the core subjects organizations with no participation or economic or other relationships GRI, see www.globalreporting.org/ and issues of social responsibility; representation of any government. through which an organization has Pages/default.aspx integrating, implementing and the ability to affect the decisions O promoting socially responsible ffsetting or activities of individuals or G ISO 14000 behaviour throughout the Offsetting is the practice organizations. Also ISO 14001:2004. ISO 14001 organization and, through its of companies financing is a management standard for policies and practices, within its projects that avoid, reduce or Stakeholder I environmental management sphere of influence; identifying capture greenhouse gas emissions. Individual or group that has an systems (EMS). The International and engaging with stakeholders; The alternative is to purchase and interest in any decision or activity of Organization for Standardization and communicating commitments, retire “pollution rights” from carbon an organization. (ISO) has many other standards performance and other information cap-and-trade markets. K dealing with specific environmental related to social responsibility. ISO Stakeholder Engagement R issues. ISO 14001:2004 provides 26000:2010 is intended to assist esponsible Business Activity under taken to create a framework for a holistic, strategic organizations in contributing to A responsible company opportunities for dialogue between approach to the organization’s sustainable development. Official should have in place a an organization and one or more N environmental policy, plans and website: www.iso.org. managerial system to integrate of its stakeholders, with the aim of actions. A related standard (ISO ethical, human rights, social and providing an informed basis for the K 14064) specifies principles and yoto Protocol environmental concerns into its core organization’s decisions. O requirements at the organization The Kyoto Protocol is an strategy and business operations. level for quantification and reporting international agreement Sustainable Development of greenhouse gas emissions and linked to the United Nations Responsible Travel Management 1] For a company, initiating a removals. Official website: www.iso. Framework Convention on Climate An integrated approach that allows sustainable development effort R org Change (U N FCC). The major organizations to enable corporate means reconciling business feature of the Kyoto Protocol is mobility in a cost-effective manner development and financial ISO 26000 that it sets binding targets for 37 while providing for the environment, per formance with social and A l s o I SO 26 0 0 0 : 2010 . I SO industrialized countries and the staff and the broader community. environmental responsibilities. S 26000:2010 provides guidance European community for reducing That’s what’s called Corporate S to all types of organizations, greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. o c i a l R e s p o n ​s i b i l i t y Social Responsibility or Responsible regardless of their size or More official information: unfccc.int/ Responsibility of an organiBusiness. It involves integrating location, on: concepts, terms kyoto_protocol/items/2830.php zation for the impacts of its human resources, environmental, U Copyright © 2013 CWT 88 Contents Chapter 8 Glossary 2012 Responsible Business Report CHAPTER 8 ethical and corporate citizenship United Kingdom Department C concerns into the company’s for Environment, Food and business and its relations with its Rural Affairs (Defra) stakeholders. See also Corporate Defra has published good Sustainability and Responsible introductory information on climate D Business. change and g reenhouse gas emissions on their website. The UK 2] Development that meets the has its own code of best practices needs of the present without for carbon offsetting and provides G compromising the ability of future a method for carbon footprint generations to meet their own analysis. Climate related overview: needs. https://www.gov.uk/government/ I organisations/department-forU nited Nations Global environment-food-rural-affairs Compact (UNGC) The UN Global Compact K is a strategic policy initiative for businesses that are committed to aligning their operations and strategies with ten universally accepted N principles in the areas of human rights, labour, environment and anticorruption. By doing so, business, O as a primary driver of globalization, can help ensure that markets, commerce, technology and finance advance in ways that benefit econoR mies and societies everywhere. For more on the UN Global Compact, visit the website www.unglobalcompact.org. S U Copyright © 2013 CWT 89 Acknowledgments Content: The Global Responsible Business team would like to thank all of our CWT contributors from across the globe, whose contributions and unwavering support have been instrumental in the completion of this report. Extracts have been taken from the following country responsible business reports: Netherlands, United Kingdom, and United States. Design: www.yohannjacob.fr Photos: P76 © Thinkstocks CWT, Global Responsible Business 31, rue du Colonel Pierre Avia 75015 Paris France www.carlsonwagonlit.com Copyright © 2013 CWT
