United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress This report serves as DTTL’s Communication on Progress to the United Nations Global Compact for 2012-2013. The table below contains information or references to material in the report that addresses the Global Compact principles. GLOBAL IMPACT UN Global Compact Principle Disclosure GRI Indicator Human rights 2013 Principle 1: Businesses should As a network, Deloitte recognizes that it has a responsibility to uphold human rights both in the workplace and LA8, LA13, HR5, support and respect the more broadly within its sphere of influence. Deloitte not only works to address human rights issues within its HR6, HR7, SO5, protection of internationally communities, but also seeks to respond to some of the urgent human rights challenges of our world in a manner PR2, PR8 proclaimed human rights; and commensurate with its ability to effect change within and across regions and borders. Principle 2: make sure that they HR5, HR6, HR7, In Deloitte’s workplaces, human rights typically take the form of non-discrimination and diversity in personnel are not complicit in human SO5 practices, privacy, professional development, and work-life balance. Deloitte values differences—in thought, rights abuses. style, culture, ethnicity and Deloitte has embedded concern for human rights in its core values, as a means of integrating respect for one another in the organization’s culture worldwide. Recruiting and retention activities reflect a desire to hire professionals who share Deloitte’s values and commitment to responsible business. DTTL and its member firms take seriously their duty to keep their people safe and the Global Security Office (GSO) continues to help ensure that Deloitte’s people are aware of particular risks before they travel. In FY13 GSO developed a series of general travel and country-specific e-learning courses. Deloitte professionals also have access to a comprehensive travel security website containing the latest security bulletins, assessments, country risk ratings, and other resources for travelers. In addition, DTTL recently introduced a mobile application from its emergency services provider, International SOS, which allows Deloitte professionals to receive the latest security and health alerts and to access other resources. Deloitte also demonstrated its commitment to this principle through its work during FY13 with the United Nations Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs (UN OCHA). UN OCHA identified leadership -particularly crisis leadership -as the area where the Deloitte network could have the greatest positive impact on the humanitarian sector. With OCHA, Deloitte co-created an innovative leadership summit for the UN’s most senior leaders responsible for coordinating life-saving assistance during humanitarian responses. The UN OCHA and Deloitte Leadership Summit for Humanitarian Coordinators was held in October 2012 at Deloitte University in Westlake, Texas. A one-day follow-up session was then held at the Humanitarian Coordinators annual retreat in Switzerland in May 2013. Please see “The Deloitte Talent Experience” section of this report for additional details on our approach to diversity and inclusion. The “Performance Numbers” section also provides metrics on our workforce diversity. See the “Global Talent Security” section for additional details on how we work to manage travel risk to our people. © 2013. For information, contact Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu Limited. UN Global Compact Principle Disclosure GRI Indicator Labor standards Principle 3: Businesses should Deloitte’s Shared Values and Ethical Principles prescribe that all interaction between Deloitte and its people, as LA4, HR5, SO5 uphold the freedom of well as interaction among Deloitte people, must be characterized by integrity, trust, and mutual respect. Listening GLOBAL association and the effective recognition of the right to to its people allows Deloitte to prioritize their interests and concerns, and address them with appropriate communications, policies, programs, and member firm services. IMPACT collective bargaining; Deloitte’s Shared Values and Ethical Principles also include non-discrimination and inclusion as integral parts of Principle 4: the elimination of all HR7, SO5 2013 the way the network functions. While DTTL and its member firms are united by this vision of inclusion, DTTL forms of forced and compulsory respectfully recognizes that implementation of related programs will be shaped by member firms and their labour; local and national cultures. Where appropriate, Deloitte also addresses non-discrimination and inclusion in the Principle 5: the effective community. Member firm learning development programs help people develop the skills necessary to work HR6, SO5 abolition of child labour; and cross-culturally. Principle 6: the elimination of EC7, LA2, LA13, Deloitte’s focus on diversity and inclusion earned the organization a third-place ranking in DiversityInc.’s Top discrimination in respect of SO5 10 Companies for Global Diversity. These diversity focus areas encompass ethnicity, age, disabilities, and other employment and occupation. factors relevant to particular member firms. Exploring inclusion in the 21st century workplace was the theme of the March 2013 two-day launch event of the Deloitte University Leadership Center for Inclusion. Deloitte also introduced the Inclusive Leadership Program in FY2013. Focused on developing the multicultural competencies, mindset, and behaviors to lead inclusively and leverage diversity to improve business decisions, the program is now part of the Global Lead Client Service Partner Program. Further details on the DTTL Global Ethics Program are in the “Ethics” section of this report. See also “The Deloitte Talent Experience” section of this report for a description of Deloitte’s approach to diversity and inclusion, and the “Performance Numbers” section for measures of Deloitte’s workforce diversity. Environment Principle 7: Businesses should DTTL believes that businesses and institutions need to become more sustainable in order to secure long-term EC2, EN18, SO5 support a precautionary prosperity for society and themselves. Member firms manage their sustainability programs at the local level, in line approach to environmental with the DTTL Corporate Responsibility Policy and their own policies and priorities. Several member firms have set challenges; GHG emission reduction targets, and these firms and others have programs focused on measuring and reducing GHG emissions and lessening other environmental impacts related to travel, building services, and office functions. Principle 8: undertake EN1, EN2, EN3, initiatives to promote greater EN4, EN16, EN17, Many member firms are actively pursuing sustainability initiatives, both inside and outside their physical office environmental responsibility; EN18, EN20, EN28, spaces. One notable accomplishment related to office greening was that in January 2013, DTTL and Deloitte U.S. and EN29, SO5 offices at 30 Rockefeller Plaza in New York were awarded the U.S. Green Building Council’s Leadership in Energy Principle 9: encourage the and Environmental Design (LEED) Certification at the Gold level for Commercial Interiors. EN2, EN18, SO5 development and diffusion of environmentally friendly Deloitte reported transparently and publicly on climate change risks, opportunities, action and performance technologies. by responding to the CDP’s (formerly Carbon Disclosure Project) 2013 Investor and Supplier climate change questionnaires. During FY13 we also increased by 50% the number of member firms reporting greenhouse gas emissions using environmental management software; member firms using this cloud-based reporting system now represent over 55% of aggregate member firm revenue. While member firms continue to advance improved environmental performance, our most important contributions to the sustainability agenda come through member firm services to clients. Deloitte member firms have more than 800 sustainability specialists helping clients transition to sustainable business models and practices that are expected to deliver topand bottom-line financial growth for the long term. Please see the “Environmental sustainability” section of this report for more information on Deloitte’s initiatives to manage its environmental performance as well as the environmental metrics in the “Performance Numbers” section. DTTL’s submission to the CDP can be found at www.cdproject.net. 2 © 2013. For information, contact Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu Limited. UN Global Compact Principle Disclosure GRI Indicator Anti-corruption Principle 10: Businesses should Deloitte maintains a steadfast commitment to ethics, quality and risk management, which supports the member SO3, SO7 work against corruption in all its firms’ abilities to serve the public interest and deliver services that consistently meet high standards. DTTL GLOBAL forms, including extortion and bribery. has a global anti-corruption policy that addresses matters such as bribery, facilitation payments, political and charitable contributions, and gifts and entertainment. This policy was supported with guidance to member firms IMPACT on conducting corruption risk assessment and third-party due diligence. All member firm people are required to annually confirm their compliance with member firm anti-corruption policies. Deloitte has embedded ethical 2013 issues and dilemmas into the business simulations experienced by all incoming member firm partners at the Global New Partner Seminar, an annual three-day leadership conference for this group of new leaders. Further, in FY13 a record 16 member firms were visited by DTTL and other ethics subject-matter experts, as part of the ethics practice review program, to measure compliance with global policy and support continuous improvement in ethics program management. In FY13, the annual member firm ethics survey, which measures awareness and effectiveness of member firm ethics programs, was implemented by 37 member firms. Results showed higher awareness of ethics programs and a greater belief that Deloitte has a strong ethical culture. In FY13 we created our own Anti-Corruption Academy within the Deloitte Global Center for Corporate Governance, with support from member firms’ Financial Advisory practices. The Academy works with member firm governance centers and their anti-corruption and public-policy experts to provide education and training on combating corruption, money laundering, and fraud; and to build effective compliance and internal-control programs. The first Academy took place on 7 March 2013 in Bogota, Colombia. Approximately 100 board directors and senior compliance officers attended In addition to maintaining and advancing our commitment to this area within Deloitte, we are highly involved in many external anti-corruption initiatives. These include efforts driven by the Business 20 (B20) – the business advisory group to the G20 leaders, the World Economic Forum’s Partnering Against Corruption Initiative (PACI) and its Global Agenda Council, the Business and Industry Advisory Committee to the OECD, and the UN Global Compact. During FY13 DTTL CEO, Barry Salzberg, participated in the dedication of the Notre Dame Deloitte Center for Ethical Leadership. This center for the research, teaching, and practice focuses its activities on ethical leadership with particular emphasis on character ethics that puts the role of individual character and values center stage in advancing ethical leadership in business. In addition, Deloitte member firms are engaged in anticorruption tool and guideline development for companies, and pro bono support to industry groups in this space. Please see the “Ethics,” “Economic Integrity” and “Independence” sections of this report for additional information on Deloitte’s commitment to combating corruption. Deloitte refers to one or more of Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu Limited, a UK private company limited by guarantee, and its network of member firms, each of which is a legally separate and independent entity. Please see www.deloitte.com/about for a detailed description of the legal structure of Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu Limited and its member firms. 3 © 2013. For information, contact Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu Limited.
