Contact persons: Bernd van Husen, Marlit Mencke, Valerie Asmus UN Global Compact Armacell’s Communication on Progress Report 2012 2 Table of Contents 03 04 06 About this Report Statement of Introduction to Continued the Armacell Commitment Group 10 42 28 16 Human Labour Environment Anti-Corruption Rights Standards 3 About this report Since 2006 the Armacell Group is a sustainable member of the UN Global Compact and consciously supports this initiative with its best efforts, advising all its stakeholders to respect its self-commitment. The UN Global Compact is a strategic initiative for businesses that are committed to aligning their operations and strategies with ten universally accepted principles in the areas of human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption. Armacell promotes and implements the ten principles and annually publishes a Communication on Progress (COP) Report. This Report covers all the policies, actions and outcomes of the Armacell Group from September 2011 until October 2012. This Report is a voluntary framework. 4 Statement of Continued Support Since 2006 the Armacell Group is a sustainable member of the UN Global Compact and consciously supports this initiative with its best efforts, advising all our stakeholders to respect our selfcommitment. In an increasingly complex global environment, the common values that are firmly anchored in the organizational structure, become an important guidance and the basis for a long-term company success. Common values form the basis for a professional behavior of our employees as to each other as to our business partners. We Patrick Mathieu created a specific Code of Conduct that CEO Armacell Group measures all our business activities worldwide. It builds on our basic values and commits all employees to ethical behavior. We consider ourselves accountable not only for our results, but also for the way in which the results are achieved. Only then it is possible to create a positive, customerfocused culture, where customers value the Armacell experience and build a continuous business relationship. 5 Statement of Continued Support Ethical and responsible behavior are the foundation of our company structure. We focus on sustainable and profitable growth through the development and manufacture of our products and thereby make a positive contribution to the community. With innovations in the energy and acoustic efficiency we contribute to sustainable growth. Armacell is a company that can be trusted. We clearly understand the importance of all ten of the Compact’s fundamental principles, and our COP report shows a range of different activities with respect to human rights, labor standards, protection of the environment and anti-corruption. To use resources as efficiently as possible, Armacell is constantly searching for ways to reduce raw material use, energy consumption and waste levels. Environmental awareness is linked to occupational safety, product stewardship and corporate citizenship. Commitment is a key importance for us. We will continue to endorse the UN Global Compact as an integral part of our daily business.” Patrick Mathieu CEO Armacell Group 6 Introduction to the Armacell Group About the company: Armacell is a global innovator in foam technologies and the world leader in the market for flexible technical insulation materials. Our wide range of products provides solutions for energy conservation and energy efficiency. Headquarters in Muenster, Germany Independent company with financially strong investors; approx. 2,440 employees worldwide representing more than 40 nations. Manufacturing at 19 plants in 13 countries on 4 continents, servicing 88 Sheet line at the countries, with 20 sales offices Muenster plant worldwide. Headquarter located in Muenster, Germany. www.armacell.com 7 Armacell‘s Plant Network A truly global operation with 19 plants in 13 countries. 8 9 Policies, Actions and Outcomes since September 2011 Policies, actions and outcomes in support of the UN Global Compact 10 Principles 1 and 2 Policies Principles 1 and 2  Armacell protects and respects Businesses international human rights should support and respect the  Among the core company values are protection of commitment and integrity internationally  These values and our concept of proclaimed ethically and legally responsible human rights; behavior are described in our Code of Conduct renewed in September 2012 http://www.armacell.com/WWW/armacell/INETArmacell.nsf/stand and make sure ard/F24C2B8D33873675C125794F00479C79 that they are not  Since 2006 we openly support the UN complicit in Global Compact in communication with human rights our business partners and the general abuses public Policies, Actions and Outcomes 11 Principles 1 and 2  Global Compact principles publicly supported on our website, in speeches, in the press, in product brochures, in contact with customers and suppliers http://www.armacell.com/WWW/armacell/INETArmacell.nsf/standard/6A4FF7D89467 FE2D80257700005C4B90  Principles supported through publications  Articles in the Global Compact International Yearbook 2011: “Energy efficiency is our business”  The endorsement of the UN Global Compact has been incorporated in our supplier assessments. Since October 2009, every new supplier has been asked to respect the Global Compact’s ten principles  Armacell's GC commitments incorporated into company presentation (shown to general public, customers, suppliers and other stakeholders) Policies, Actions and Outcomes 12 Principles 1 and 2  “We support” logo used on our stationery  Bulletins and regularly updated news regarding the Global Compact on the intranet  Contact persons appointed in all geographical zones who report on local activities  Financial contribution to the Foundation for the Global Compact Actions and Outcomes  Our employees support the principle in their day-to-day business life  In the past year, Armacell has not been subject to any investigations, legal cases or incidents involving Human Rights violations Policies, Actions and Outcomes 13 Principles 1 and 2  Emphasis placed on the social dimension of sustainability amongst Armacell management and employees with many local good citizenship projects supported worldwide, i.e. projects which help the local communities in which Armacell operates.  Regular donations in-kind for schools, hospitals, sports clubs and facilities for the handicapped in many plants worldwide − Germany (Münster): in Jan 2012 Donation of over € 3,000 to the daycare that works with handicapped children − Germany: Nov 2012: Donation of 1,000 ArmaSport mats to over 90 daycare facilities for children − Sri Lanka(Navithanveli): Ongoing programs comprise World Vision financial support and regular correspondence with 10 orphans/half-orphans (aged between 6 and 15) following 2005 Tsunami. Policies, Actions and Outcomes 14 Principles 1 and 2 − China(Panyu): Organizing activities among Armacell colleagues to visit elderly people in Panyu Shilou Rest Home (on every Women’s Day, March 8). − Spain: • Sponsorship of International Athletics Meeting in Palafrugell • Support of a local cancer association − UK: Sponsorship contribution of €6,000 per annum paid to local council for maintenance and keep up of the Community Garden and the underpass − France: Donation of €1,500 to the association ELA (European Lucodystroph Association) Policies, Actions and Outcomes 15 Principles 1 and 2 − Brazil: • Donation to APAE Parents of Special Children’s Association (Association of parents and friends of persons with intellectual disabilities in Pandamonhangba (where our plant is located) • In 2012, distributing small Christmas gifts such as footballs, plastic cars, dolls and basic food packages to poor children in Pindamonhangba. 2 employees and our truck involved. Policies, Actions and Outcomes 16 Principles 1 and 2  Co-operation with non-profit organizations − US: Since 2009, partnering with non-profit community rehabilitation organization OE Enterprises (Hillsborough, NC, www.oeenterprises.org) in the fabrication of insulation covers for irregularly shaped components (= fittings). •OE’s staff trained by Armacell to make Armaflex fitting covers. •OE developed detailed production protocol and explained the process to people with disabilities, they in turn produce the covers. •Extremely positive effects for all sides accelerated in 2012: Customers were extremely satisfied with the offer of a complete insulation system for their individual application needs. People from OE (who might have otherwise not been able to find a job in industry) produced not only standard fittings, but also large mechanical grooved fittings with excellent quality. Policies, Actions and Outcomes 17 Principle 3 Policies Principle3  Respecting and protecting the employees’ rights to engage in union Businesses activity and collective bargaining should uphold  Supporting the ILO Core Conventions, the freedom of adhering to internationally recognized association and principles including Labor Standards the effective  Providing all employees with recognition of guidance for their actions through the the right to new Corporate Philosophy A.R.M.A. collective Way bargaining  Emphasize the workplace safety Actions and Outcomes  Worker/employee representative bodies (e.g. works councils) established in most of our plants  Regular interaction between management and employees through various appropriate communication channels in all our plants  Additional safety regulations Policies, Actions and Outcomes 18 Principle 3 In order to  New: Introduction of the new corporate communicate the philosophy A.R.M.A. Way in September contents, all 2012, that provides all employees with managers of guidance for their actions Armacell worldwide have received the presentation “From Vision to Action” to present the contents to their employees. At the same time they are asked to consider in practical terms how they want to implement the A.R.M.A. Way together with their employees. Policies, Actions and Outcomes 19 Principle 3 • to improve the overall  Introduction of the Systematic performance Personnel Development Process • to have a in Sep. 2011 with regular worldwide appraisal interviews at the standardized headquarters in Muenster. In 2012 system for Armacell the system was rolled out • to receive an worldwide step by step for all overview of the salaried employees in order to distribution of identify personal development employees’ needs and training requirements, performances and consisting of: Annual Performance potentials and Development Review (APDR), facilitate succession People Review Conference, planning in the Implementation and monitoring of company development measures, Mid-Year • to analyze Review, Preparation for the APDR personnel development needs systematically • define objectives for all participants in this process in a standardized way related to the A.R.M.A. Way Philosophy Policies, Actions and Outcomes 20 Principle 3  New: Introduction of the Annual Performance & Development Review in 2012 in Europe and in 2013 in Americas, APAC, Indiawhich provides mutual feedback on the working relationship and is also a development dialogue between managers and employees − contribute to better communication between the employee and his manager − improve the employee’s qualification and personal development − encourage the employee to pursue corporate goals by setting objectives and to foster an open dialogue  New: the People Review Conference was introduced in 2012 for the first time at the headquarter in Muenster (Germany) and will be rolled out in whole Europe in 2013 − takes place once a year and goes top down to the third level − every manager presents the assessment and succession planning for his key positions/key employees to the group − at the end of the People Review Conference the group should have defined measures and successors for every key position/key employee − Policies, Actions and Outcomes 21 Principle 3  New: Additional workplace safety regulations since October 2012 − Employees from the production plants have to wear safety ankle boots at least of the category S1 − Employees from the logistic and the workshop departments have to wear safety ankle boots at least of the category S3 − All employees and all visitors who enter the production plants have to wear safety ankle boots  New in Germany: − at the request of employees, the employee newsletter “ArmaPlus News” was introduced with the aim of reporting on in-house topics; − a regular update message “MarCom News” informs employees about the actual media releases Policies, Actions and Outcomes 22 Principles 4 Policies Principle 4:  Armacell supports the ILO Core Conventions and will not do business [Businesses with any organization who uses forced should or child labor uphold] the elimination of Actions and Outcomes all forms of  Since the beginning of 2007, Armacell forced and has initiated and rolled out a project compulsory covering its suppliers worldwide, labour informing them about our support of the UN Global Compact's ten fundamental principles.  Follow-up among suppliers with changed focus: at the end of 2012/13 they are to be contacted again with special emphasis on Principle 10  Employees issued with a contract of employment which clearly states their terms and conditions including pay rates and overtime pay arrangements.  Performed “Kaizen” events with workers participation to improve packing on contlines Policies, Actions and Outcomes 23 Principle 5 Policies Principle 5:  Armacell supports the ILO Core Conventions and firmly dissociates [Businesses from child labor should uphold] the effective Actions and Outcomes abolition of  Armacell requires its suppliers to child labour sign documents confirming that they comply with the principles that call for eliminating all forms of forced and compulsory labor and abolishing child labor.  In 2012 Armacell opened a new plant in Seoul (South-Korea) and thereby created 30 new workplaces by firmly abolishing child labor.  Declaration letter of ethics Policies, Actions and Outcomes 24 Principle 6 Policies Principle 6:  Expressly mentioned in our Code of Conduct Businesses should uphold  Range of HR Policies which support the best practice in terms of labor and elimination of employment including Equal discrimination Opportunities Policy, Appraisal in respect of Procedure and Flexible Working employment Policy. and − Flexible work hours where occupation possible to facilitate work-life balance − Continuous concern to respect and promote the principle of nondiscrimination on all levels of our Human Resources Departments worldwide  Strict safety policy in place that is subject to continuous improvement Policies, Actions and Outcomes 25 Principle 6 Actions and Outcomes  Only qualifications, skills and experience as the basis for recruitment; placement, training and advancement of staff at all levels. − Germany: • setting up English language courses on different levels that are paid by the company for all employees at our headquarters in Muenster: 34 participants in 2011/12, 41 participants in 2012/2013 − Spain: • language classes of Portuguese, English, French, German • Excel and Access courses • Courses on personal abilities • Training on health and security • Technical capacities Policies, Actions and Outcomes 26 Principle 6  Reinforcement of our focus on education and training − In and around Muenster/Germany: Organizing and sponsoring discussions, workshops and seminars for pupils and students, informing them about measures to reduce energy consumption. • 12 internships for pupils in 2011, 23 internships for pupils in 2012 • As in previous years, regular events for pupils and students “Girls’ Day” (April 2012), “Schule und dann?”(April 2012) and participation in educational fairs in 2012 too. − New: School Engineering Working Group since January 2012 • Armacell founded a cooperation with a secondary school in Muenster (Germany) to give pupils the opportunity to visit the plant once a week and to learn drilling, filing and other manufacture activities − India: in 2012 Armacell India has sponsored education of 6 on–roll employees and 7 contract workers. The total funds utilized were 62,000 INR Policies, Actions and Outcomes 27 Principle 6  Global system of Armacell Achievement Awards in place that recognizes the efforts of every single employee regardless of position, race/ethnicity, country of origins or gender; graded as Initiative Award (for outstanding effort that demonstrates initiative and inspires others to higher levels of productivity), Leadership Award (recognizing an achievement that is superior in its’ effort and specific contribution), and President’s Global Award (for unique contribution to the overall mission and value of the company ) presented just once a year. − North America: 2011: 5 Initiative Awards, 1 leadership Award 2012: 1 Initiative Award − India and Middle East: 2011: 7 Initiative Awards, (many local awards on top) 2012: 1 Initiative Award − Europe: 2011: 20 Initiative Awards, 13 Inspiration Awards, 1 Pioneer Award 2012: 29 Initiative Awards, 13 Inspiration Awards, 38 Leadership Awards − Asia & Pacific: 2011: 18 Initiative Awards, 5 Pioneer Awards, 1 President’s Global Award 2012: 27 Initiative Awards Policies, Actions and Outcomes 28 Principle 6  Commitment to providing a safe work environment for our employees ( zero harm to people“). − Health and safety committees appointed in the plants. − OHSAS 18001 certification for the plants in China (Panyu and Zhangjiaguang) and in India (Pune). − Many safety practices in all our North American plants implemented over the past few years with the aim of getting certified as SHARP facilities; in 2011, SHARP certification for Mebane and Atlanta, Conover and South Holland expected to follow by 1st quarter of 2012. − In Muenster/Germany regular briefings in safety at work for all employees; in cooperation with the Berufsgenossenschaft Rohstoffe und chemische Industrie (BG RCI) instructing 19 new safety representatives. − In Spain: Full implementation of 5S in production areas (improved standards on housekeeping) Policies, Actions and Outcomes 29 Principle 6  2012: Introduction of World-class Armacell Mindset (WAM). WAM is a management approach to efficiency, a program to continuously improve the performance and competiveness of Armacell  As an integral part of the WAM program the LEAN culture concept with continuous improvement in the whole organization in North America was introduced. Rolled out in Europe and Asia as well in 2012, starting with Manufacturing and dependent upon understanding and involvement by all employees on all levels of the organizations. − Successful implementation requires that all employees are trained to change their working habits; training process already started (top-down process). Policies, Actions and Outcomes 30 Principle 7 Policies Principle 7:  Environmental protection is an integral part of the business strategy Businesses should  Environmental guidelines are in place support a in all our companies & manufacturing precautionary plants: all Armacell employees approach to worldwide are obliged to behave environmental responsibly towards the environment challenges and conserve natural resources on and off the job  Armacell commits itself to manufacturing products which pose no threat to the environment Actions and Outcomes  17 out of 19 plants worldwide ISO 9001 certified, 1 plant TS16949 registered  Continuous research on Life Cycle Assessment  Global Environmental Assessment on a global basis for all 19 manufacturing sites Policies, Actions and Outcomes 31 Principle 7  Global Environmental Assessment with external consultant in Jan/Feb 2013 on a global basis for all 19 manufacturing sites. The goal was to review environmental compliance based on legal requirements and also to get indications for environmental improvements. General outcome was that there are no material environmental issues.  Auditing of the biggest plants and the new ones, telephone interviews, checklists etc. at all other plants. Same Assessment was carried out in 2006.  Outcome: Site Reports / Exposés / Side Letter / Summary  All European Armacell insulation plants environmentally certified (ISO 14001) following the certification of the Polish plant in June 2011 (i.e. Muenster (DE), Friesenhofen (DE), Begur (ES), Oldham (GB), Sroda Slaska (PL)).  Following the certification of the Indian plant in June 2011, now 3 Asian plants ISO 14001 certified (Panyu (CN), Suzhou (CN), Pune (IN)). In total 17 out of 19 plants certified. Policies, Actions and Outcomes 32 Principle 7  Continuous research on Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) conducted for the first time in 2009 for the main elastomeric insulation product Armaflex, based on ISO 14040 methodology. The aim was to investigate systematically its environmental impact, relying on data from all Armacell production facilities and markets worldwide. − Energy balance: taking an average service life of 20 years, 140 times more energy saved through the use of Armaflex than needed for its production, transport and disposal. − Product's carbon / climate footprint: 150 times more CO2 emissions prevented over an average lifetime of 20 years than emitted while being produced. − In heating applications, where a service life of 30 years can be assumed, even better ecobalance: 270 times more energy saved and 500 times more greenhouse gas emissions prevented compared to production requirements. − Pay-back time for energy input needed to produce Armaflex just 50 days. Policies, Actions and Outcomes 33 Principle 8 Policies Principle 8:  Preserving and enhancing the quality of the environment around us as integral Businesses part of the Armacell business strategy, should explicitly stated in our Environmental undertake Guidelines initiatives to http://www.armacell.com/WWW/armacell/INETArmacell.n promote sf/standard/F26DF0CF83E1D686802576F0005F8BDB and in our Code of Conduct greater http://www.armacell.com/WWW/armacell/INETArmacell.n environmental sf/standard/F24C2B8D33873675C125794F00479C79 responsibility Actions and Outcomes  Active in appropriate associations to increase insulation standards for energy efficiency  Membership and active participation in US Green Building Council and in numerous other national organizations targeting renewable and green energy industries worldwide Policies, Actions and Outcomes 34 Principle 8  “European Industrial Insulation Foundation” (“EiiF”, www.eiif.org) was established, with Armacell as a founding member Aiming to raise Ongoing actions include awareness of energy• Communication saving potential which campaign “THE can be realized through INSULATOR” started in the optimal use of Nov. 2011, insulation, especially • Working on a European amongst industry and quality mark for governments. Up to sustainable insulation now energy efficiency in products, buildings has received a • Establishing the title of lot of attention whereas a TIPCHECK (=Quick the importance of check of technical industrial insulation for insulation energy efficiency has performance) certified been vastly engineer for identifying underestimated. the places within a facility which bear the highest saving potential with a rapid payback, first engineers certified in Oct. 2011. Policies, Actions and Outcomes 35 Principle 8  In co-operation with Ecofys, research on the average savings potential in industry. Preliminary findings show that heat loss savings of 45% would be possible if an existing system designed with current specifications was insulated at least cost-effectively. Report to be released in early 2012 using World Environment Day (every 5th June) to stimulate awareness of environmental issues.  Other initiatives to promote environmental responsibility: − Armacell India: As in previous year, also in 2012 a tree planting program was organized, 30 trees were planted in the surrounding areas of the production facility Policies, Actions and Outcomes 36 Principle 8  Armacell India: − In 2012 Armacell has organized Poster Competition on „Environmental Issues“ Painting from a child from India − Armacell has organized a Slogan Competition and a Suggestion Competition on „Energy Saving, Pollution Control & Water Conservation at Armacell − „Cycling for a greener and better tomorrow 2012“ Armacell has organized a cycle rally of around 14km for spreading awareness on preserving the environment. 37 Principle 8  Concrete training activities and seminars on the professional installation of elastomeric insulation materials provided in many different locations worldwide; special emphasis laid on environmental aspects and on correct installation of the flexible insulation material to ensure that no energy losses occur. − New Training Center at the company’s headquarters in Muenster opened at the end of Sept. 2011, optimal conditions for application training. In 2012:  Germany: as in the previous  CE South: 15 Application years, 1,000-1,200 trainings with total 163 participants (p) including participants: insulation contractors, Serbia (60p), Montenegro specifiers/engineers, (9p), Croatia (14p), Romania installers, trainees, (10p), Hungary (60p), construction supervisors were Slovenia (10p) trained in approx. 90  Austria: 4 trainings with seminars, not only in-house, total 45 participants: but also in schools and Sanität Heiung (15p), workshops. Isolierer Duschek Graz  Switzerland: a tree-day(10p), Isolierer SWK training with 15 participants Hennersdorf (8p),  Russia: 10 trainings (70p) Berufsschule Linz (12p) Policies, Actions and Outcomes 38 Principle 8  New: Certificate of Climate Protection − In 2011 Armacell has given valuable materials for recycling, thereby 493.45 tones of greenhouse gases were saved →this reflects the average annual CO2 emissions of 238 cars  New: Certificate of Sustainability − In 2011 Armacell has carried valuable contributions to the environment on cooperation with the group • Primary raw material savings of 3.484 tons • Energy generation and savings in the amount of 13.116 MWh • CO2 savings of 1.957 tones CO2 equivalent Policies, Actions and Outcomes 39 Principle 8  New: since November 2011 Armacell is the first manufacturer of flexible pipe insulation to provide CE-certified products − an expression and visible indication of the Armaflex products’ compliance with the Construction Products Directive − the majority of the Armaflex products achieve the class B/BLs3,d0 in the European fire test  New: Project in 2012-Recycling of colored bottles − In 2012 Armacell started a pilot project by recycling colored bottles Policies, Actions and Outcomes 40 Principle 9 Policies Principle 9:  Implementing a worldwide R&D strategy based on principles of Businesses sustainability and environmental should protection with specific research encourage the aims, including constant further development development of product formulations and diffusion that pose no threat to the of environment environmentActions and Outcomes ally friendly technologies  Following the development of formulations for the worldwide substitution of the widespread brominated flame-retardant agent decabrom-diphenylether (“decaBDE”), which has been under discussion in recent years due to its negative environmental impact, deca was substituted step by step  completely deca-free production already achieved in 2011 for the whole of Asia and Europe where it had been used previously. Policies, Actions and Outcomes 41 Principle 9  In 2011, developing and introducing formulations that do not use brominated flame retardants.  R&D strategy in 2012/13: − Develop elastomeric foams with excellent fire behavior but without brominated flame retardants and without antimony trioxide which are suspected of being potentially carcinogenic for humans, − Develop formulations without MCCPs (as plasticizer), − Further lower the thermal conductivity of elastomerics and PET materials through new developments which will result in significant savings in terms of material consumption and in energy savings for the user.  In 2011, as in 2010, we re-used 25-30% of our elastomeric by-products as valuable alternative raw materials worldwide, more than 90% in the plants in India, the United Kingdom and Saudi-Arabia.  Further work towards the target of zero waste generation in the production of elastomeric foams. Policies, Actions and Outcomes 42 Principle 9  with the effect of zero waste generation, product developments such as ArmaSound: trim material that cannot be re-worked back into the process may be reengineered into a high-performance acoustic foam, resulting in a win-win scenario for the environment. − Re-using waste materials reduces impact of disposal, while at the same time offering a solution for noise pollution.  Reduced weight and thickness compared to traditional systems allow for additional energy savings in application, while offering improved acoustic performance Policies, Actions and Outcomes 43 Principle 9  New in 2012: Armaflex Ultima (minimal smoke insulation material with Bs1,d0) − 95% of those killed in a fire are killed by smoke →new generation closed cell FEF insulation material that virtually rules out the smoke development − developed specifically for application areas with low smoke or elevated safety requirements ADVANTAGES FOR THE ENVIRONMENT: reduces energy losses and minimizes CO₂ emissions low thermal conductivity for high energy savings excellent protection against water vapor diffusion for long-term performance first flexible closed-cell insulation with Euroclass BLs1-d0 increased safety through superior fire performance and reduced smoke density reduction on thermal losses no condensation no PVC no LCCP or MCCP self-adhesive products LEED, DGNB, BASTA, BVB Policies, Actions and Outcomes 44 Principle 10 Policies Principle 10:  A specific Armacell Code of Conduct has been adapted to the new Businesses corporate values and published in should work September, 2012 against − Explicit statement to emphasize corruption in all Principle 10 of the UN Global its forms, Compact based on our five including company values: Customer extortion and Experience, Commitment, bribery Empowerment and Accountability, Sustainability, and Integrity − Describes how our values are implemented in practice. It defines the rules for our daily work, both internally and externally − Value of integrity makes up the largest part of the Code − Managers are expected to lead by example, to drive a culture as set out by our values and Code of Conduct 0 Policies, Actions and Outcomes 45 Principle 10 Actions and Outcomes  When introducing the Armacell Code of Conduct, our CEO wrote a bulletin published on our intranet and, in addition, sent to all our locations to be printed out and displayed on all notice boards − printed on posters and are hung up in public areas at the Armacell locations worldwide − the Code of Conduct has been translated into the languages of all countries where Armacell has a plant and a letter of acknowledgment has to be signed by every employee worldwide by the end of the year 2013 − In 2013 the contents from the Code of Conduct will be implemented into the introduction program for new employees Policies, Actions and Outcomes 46 Principle 10 − Hotline has been established for advice on ethical issues. − The Code of Conduct, part of the CEO Bulletin and our values were also published on our homepage. http://www.armacell.com/WWW/armacell/INETArmacell.nsf/standard/F24C2B8D33 873675C125794F00479C79 − A brochure has been prepared as a hand-out for new employees upon entering the company, to be used in all our locations worldwide. − An article was published in our ArmaPlus magazine in January 2012, which is intended as information for Armacell’s business partners. − In addition, personal letters have been prepared to our suppliers worldwide communicating our anti-corruption commitment and requiring the same standards of them; letter is in line with our letters to our suppliers sent out three years ago where we informed our suppliers of our commitment and of the Ten Principles. − A special logo was created to enhance visibility of the Code. Policies, Actions and Outcomes Armacell International Holding GmbH Robert-Bosch-Straße 10 48153 Münster Germany Fon: +49 (0) 251 76030 info@armacell.com
