Sustainability Report 2013 smart green About This Report This sustainability report is the ninth since KEPCO joined the UN Global Compact in August 2005. It describes the company’s progress in increasing our financial strength, reducing our environmental footprint and building strong communities. Guidelines This report meets the guidelines of Global Reporting Initiative G3.1 and selected parts of G4, which will become mandatory from 2015, and is based on materiality assessment of stakeholders. The financial data in this report are in accordance with the Korean IFRS. Reporting period This report discloses quantitative performance data from January 1, 2012 to December 31, 2012 and a part of activities and achievements done in 2013 which are of great importance. No significant change in the corporate size, ownership structure or business occurred in the reporting period. Scope of report This report primarily covers KEPCO’s sustainability management performance and also includes the performance in the environment section of six generation companies wholly owned by KEPCO (GENCOs: Korea Hydro & Nuclear Power, Korea South-East Power, Korea Midland Power, Korea Western Power, Korea Southern Power and Korea East-West Power).These GENCOs publish their own sustainability reports to ensure streamlined sustainability management of the KEPCO group. Commitment to credibility In an effort to ensure the credibility of the report, KEPCO had a third party review. The details of the review are in appendix “Third Party Review.” Distribution and feedback This report is published both in Korean and English. The feedback from the readers is welcome via postal mail, e-mail or the company website. You can direct your inquiries about this report to: 512, Yeongdong-daero, Gangnam-gu, Seoul 135-791, Korea Corporate Strategy Team, Future Strategy Department, KEPCO Tel. +82-2-3456-3524 Fax. +82-2-3456-3598 E-mail : ahnsunmi@kepco.co.kr Contents CEO Message 2 2012 Sustainability Management Highlights 4 Power Industry and KEPCO Overview 6 History of KEPCO 8 Sustainability Overview Power Industry Trend Reports 10 KEPCO Value System 12 Sustainability Management Mechanism 14 Key Performance Indicators for Sustainability Management 15 Governance Structure 16 Risk Management 18 Ethical Management 19 Issue Reporting & Performance Issue Selection Process 24 Issue 01 Customer Value Solutions 26 Issue 02 Global Growth 31 Issue 03 Future Growth Engine 36 Issue 04 Eco-Friendly Value for the Community 40 Issue 05 Carbon Emissions Reduction 50 Issue 06 Sharing and Mutual Prosperity 55 Issue 07 HR Development for the Future 64 Issue 08 Pleasant and Happy Work Environment 68 Appendices 73 Introduction KEPCO Sustainability Report 2013 2 CEO Message Warm-hearted KEPCO KEPCO is a maker of light and a producer of energy and heat. That means KEPCO should be a warm place. . . . The emphasis placed on a “warm-hearted” KEPCO is in line with the key trend of this day and age and of the current government. Specifically, I am referring to the economics of sharing, economic democratization and mutual prosperity. This year, KEPCO will continue fulfilling its corporate social responsibilities which reflect the unique nature of the company. Excerpted from the CEO’s New Year’s address, January 2013 3 Dear KEPCO Stakeholder! On behalf of KEPCO, I would like to express my sincere gratitude for your continued support and interest. Since KEPCO lit Korea’s first electric light 115 years ago, the company has provided a reliable supply of high-quality electric power to the country, thus contributing greatly to the development of the national economy and the livelihoods of Korean people. Today, the concerns of humanity lie in ensuring sustainable energy amid escalating conflicts involving the imbalance of resources, while we cannot escape from environmental issues and climate change which stem from energy consumption. Now is the time to engage in serious discussion about energy use in order to combat these challenges which will have a direct impact on our survival. KEPCO is committed to making a new start for the future of energy in order to find sustainable alternatives with which to overcome the energy crisis. First, we will maintain our core value to provide Third, we will take the lead in allowing easy access to stable and reliable power. clean and highly efficient energy. With the whole nation’s energy saving efforts, we can overcome KEPCO plans to aggressively develop new and renewable energy the threat of power shortages. In this light, KEPCO will involve the sources, such as wind and photovoltaic, both domestically and abroad. citizens and residents of Korea in the power facility construction KEPCO will work to improve energy infrastructure in developing process and place highest priority on the safety and interests of our countries and enhance the energy welfare of consumers to facilitate neighbors and communities. their access to energy. Moreover, KEPCO will expand the scope of smart grids and the use of advanced energy saving equipment to raise the level of efficiency in energy supply and demand. Second, KEPCO will aggressively expand into the global Fourth, we will realize a creative company ecosystem energy market to secure future growth engines. which is based on co-existence and communication. At present, KEPCO is carrying out 42 projects in 21 countries as of KEPCO will build a paradigm in which we grow together with small the end of 2012, and we will continue to offer a variety of energy and medium-sized enterprises and act on our motto “sharing light solutions to our stakeholders and raise our global brand value based with the world, sharing love with the community.” We are also on the quality and technological expertise we possess. committed to sharing value with stakeholders through transparent and open management. “Make the Earth a better place, make humanity happier.” KEPCO is determined to cultivate a quick-to-react culture of flexibility and openness which will gain us the trust of our stakeholders. We will reinforce management efficiency with creative thinking and ceaseless innovation and create new sources of income through the pursuit of R&D and overseas power projects. To this end, I kindly ask for your continued support and interest to help KEPCO leap forward as a global energy leader and contribute to building Korea’s creative economy. KEPCO CEO and President Cho Hwan-ik Introduction KEPCO Sustainability Report 2013 4 2012 Sustainability Management Highlights 01| Demand management 02 | Job creation Aggressive demand management reduced a load of KEPCO hired 1,745 employees of diverse 3,704MW which is equivalent to four units of nuclear power background: high school graduates, interns, plant, and avoided the need to have a rolling power cut. local and female talents. Before demand management 24days 13days Rolling power cuts 1,745 employees 638 full-time employees 9days After demand 8days 5days 1,062 interns management 2days 0 0 White Yellow Orange Red alert 03 | Global top electricity quality 04 | Sales amount to 2.9 trillion won in overseas business KEPCO ranked first alongside France out of 146 countries in terms of electricity quality in the KPMG KEPCO made the highest sales record from overseas Global Energy Competitiveness Index. business in 2012, up 20% from the previous year. 20% 515% 2012 29,072 2011 24,241 2010 15,648 Ranked first in electricity quality 2009 5,640 (unit: 100 million won) 5 05 | Core technology development 06 | Suppliers’ codes of conduct established and implemented first KEPCO developed one of the world’s most in the public sector aggressive CO2 reduction technology and won the Presidential Green Technology Award. To strengthen ethical management in the power industry, KEPCO established 12 detailed guidelines in ethics, society and environment Codes of conduct for Codes of conduct for KEPCO employees suppliers KEPCO partners 07 | Best customer satisfaction for 14 consecutive years KEPCO earned the best grade in the government’s assessment on public institutions’ corporate social Ranked 1st responsibility and product and service quality. for 14 years in a row 08 | Social contribution 09 | Successful implementation of the Jeju Smart Grid test project KEPCO practices energy welfare for socially marginalized and share sustainable values with stakeholders by KEPCO developed technology and commercialization creating social companies and supporting small and models for sustainable energy consumption based on medium-sized enterprises. the conclusion of the Smart Grid test project started since 2009. Energy Support for Procurement welfare establishing from discounts social startups SMEs 245. 6 380 4.2 Smart Grid billion won million won trillion won Introduction KEPCO Sustainability Report 2013 6 Power Industry Electric power industry Electricity is generated and consumed instantaneously, and the power grid and generation plants essentially have no and KEPCO storage. For stable power supply, reserve facilities are critical. The national grid is geopolitically isolated, leaving no chance of importing or exporting electric power, and Korea is highly dependent on imported energy resources (about Overview 96%). Power is generated in southern provinces and consumed in the metropolitan areas, which requires a long distance transport of electric power. Demand for power is not easily regulated by the market mechanism, and large investments are necessary to construct electric power facilities in order to secure supply capacity. Industry structure and responsibilities of KEPCO At present, six GENCOs, independent power producers and community energy suppliers generate electric power. KEPCO purchases the electric power via the Korea Power Exchange and sends it through its transmission and distribution grid to end users. KEPCO is a corporation incorporated under the Korea Electric Power Corporation Act for the purpose of promotion of power development, stabilizing power supply and demand and contribution to the national economy. KEPCO is classified as the market-based public corporation under the Act on the Operation of Public Organizations. KEPCO is carrying out the development, generation, transmission, distribution and sales of power, technology research and development, overseas business, investment or contributions, and the utilization of its real estate assets. Organization KEPCO has the two objectives: enhancing public interests through reliable power supply and increasing profitability through efficient resource distribution. We strengthen horizontal cooperation between organizations and departments while focusing capabilities on core and strategic businesses. ∷ Organizational structure (as of August 31, 2013) ∷ Executive Executive VicePresident President Vice President for Domestic and CEO for Overseas Operations Operations Controller & Audit Legal Corporate General Corporate The Korean Affairs Management Office Office Communications Electric Office Workers' Audit & Union Office of Power Inspection External & Supply Office International Management Cooperation Office Planning Management Power Project Marketing Nuclear Overseas Coordination Support Procurement Technology & Development & Operation Project business Division Division Division Engineering Division Division Division Division Division 8 Divisions, 33 Offices, 260 business offices 7 ∷ Company overview (as of December 31, 2012) ∷ Company name Korea Electric Power Corporation Headquarters #512, Yeongdong-daero, Gangnam-gu, Seoul 135-791, Korea Korea: 10 subsidiaries including generation companies and group companies Subsidiaries Overseas: 22 subsidiaries including investment KEPCO-invested companies and local offices Public listing Korea Exchange (1989, KRX), New York Stock Exchange (1994, NYSE) Assets Sales No. of employees Volume of electricity sales 145 trillion KRW 49.4 trillion KRW 19,278 4,666 billion kWh Korea Finance Corporation the government foreigners minority shareholders and others Shareholders 29.94% 21.17% 25.18% 23.71% ∷ Domestic power industry structure and the role of KEPCO ∷ The Korean government Supervision 5 4 Thermal power KEPCO group companies 1 Substation Transmission Distribution Sell &Purchase Sales and customer service Korea Power Exchange Overseas Mineral resources business development Customers 142 times 2012 CEO expressed his commitment to sustainability management KEPCO expressed its commitment to global corporate social responsibility management by joining the UN Global Compact in 2005 for the first time as a Korean company. The UN Global Compact is a UN organization established in 2000 to encourage companies to participate in the international community’s effort for sustainable development. KEPCO sustainability report was selected as exemplary by the UN in 2008. In February 2013, KEPCO CEO Cho Hwan-ik was selected as an interviewee, the only one among Korean CEOs for CEO Study 2013 of UN Global Compact. CEO Study has been published once every three years since 2007 to hear opinions of the CEOs of global sustainability leaders and formulate strategies for sustainability management. In the interview, Mr. Cho shared the role companies and CEOs have to play to promote sustainable economic development, and KEPCO’s challenges and strategies. KEPCO’s efforts to make sustainable energy, a better world will continue. ∷ KEPCO History ∷ Korea Electric Company was established (after the integration of Korea Lit the first electric Founded Electric Power Company, Renamed Korea Listed on the Listed on Won the first overseas lamp in Korea Hansung Electric Completed Supung Gyeongsung Electric Completed the nation’s Electric Power Korea Stock the New generation project (Geoncheongung Company Hydroelectric Power Plant Company and South first Kori Nuclear Unit 1 Corporation Exchange York Stock (Malaya Thermal Power Palace in Gyeongbok Korea Electric Company) (public offering Exchange Plant in the Philippines) Palace) of governmentissued stock) 1897 1898 1944 1961 1978 1982 1989 1994 1995 Sustainability Sustainability Overview Overview •Completed voltage upgrade to 220V for distribution •Started power supply to Kaeseong Industrial Complex World Energy •Published the first sustainability report Congress 2013 •Joined UN Global Compact in Daegu Celebrated the company’s 100th anniversary Won the Edison Award, established the •Ranked top for the independent business division system seventh consecutive Spun off six Commercial Created years in the integrity Completed the Completed generation operation of KEPCO Social Won the first Created KEPCO survey of the AntiJeju-Haenam Ulchin Units 3, subsidiaries the first 765kV Service Team nuclear power Rescue Squad Corruption & Civil submarine the Korean transmission lines plant project Rights Commission transmission Standard (UAE) •Ranked top for the 14th line (101km) Nuclear Power consecutive years in Plant customer satisfaction survey Company's 115th anniversary 1997 1998 2001 2002 2004 2005 2006 2009 2010 2012 2013 Sustainability Overview KEPCO Sustainability Report 2013 10 Power Industry Global Energy Paradigm Trend Reports Opened a global low growth era We are now in global financial crisis and low growth. Since we cannot expect rapid quantitative growth, we need to have qualitative growth. The advanced countries have tightened their economy and global energy companies are changing their fundamentals to have a lower-cost, higher-efficiency structure. In contrast, Asian emerging countries of China and India are rapidly growing, which shows the center of global consumption and investment is moving toward them. The move of an axis is both a crisis and opportunity: The growth of emerging markets provides new business opportunities while global competition to get them will get fierce. Energy demand from emerging countries, a strong rise of non-conventional resources According to the annual demand for power estimated by the IEA for 2035, the average demand in OECD is expected to increase by 1.1% while demand in China and India is projected to increase by 4.2% and 5.5%, respectively. This shift in energy is expected not only in terms of demand but supply. To compete with conventional resources such as oil and coal, non-conventional resources such as shale gas and oil sand will rise strong. In the U.S., following a boom in shale gas, its policy expanded the portion of gas. Behind the energy shift lies a heightening interest in clean fuel and a move away from fossil fuel which caused global warming. Recently, the shift toward renewable energy is slowing down due to a stalemate of the Convention on Climate Change, cut in financial support, and emergence of shale gas, but from the long-term perspective, the international community has a strong commitment to moving toward clean energy. IEA expects that renewable energy will account for 28.4% of the total generation in 2035. ∷ IEA estimated average growth in energy demand by 2035 ∷ Renewable energy 28.4% 5.5% 4.2% 4.3% 3.5% 3.3% Total power generation 2.7% 1.1% in 2035(IEA) OECD average China India Other Asian Middle East Africa Latin America countries Stronger emphasis on carbon reduction In December 2011, the Durban Platform was adopted at a meeting of the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change held in Durban, South Africa. Under the Platform, international society will complete carbon emissions reduction with legal force no later than 2015. Amid continued interest of the world on environmental regulation, the E.U. is reinvigorating the carbon market to prevent a sharp drop in certified emission reduction (CER) prices, and China established the CER trading market in 7 regions in 2013. The U.S. also put in place a climate change action plan which will expand the portion of renewables up to 20% by 2020. International energy cooperation policies are worth paying attention. The regional energy cooperation with China, Japan and Russia is expected to create added value. Eyes open on smart and clean energy A critical strategy to reduce CO2 emissions is to heighten the efficiency in energy consumption. More efficient energy use requires efficient energy management and a wider use of high-efficiency equipment. Accordingly, rising issues include precise demand forecast in response to abnormal temperatures and a two-way service with smart grid, and the technology development for higher efficiency. Also, utilizing the low-carbon, clean technology that has been developed, a low-cost, high-efficiency, and low-carbon energy mix is becoming a reality. Companies having technology are entering into the industry, which increases technology-driven competition. 11 Domestic Power Industry Trend 2015 Imbalanced supply and demand(short term) Less thermal power 21.2% generation, more A slowdown 2.9% in demand(long 2.9% term) renewable energy 2014 Recently, demand for electricity skyrocketed due to Power generation requires 16.3%fuel including coal, gas and extremely hot or cold weather and in the2.1 long % term, renewable sources. Over half of energy mix in 2012 the growth in demand will slow down. KEPCO will is thermal power, and renewable energy is expected 2013 resolve the imbalance in supply and demand with to expand with increasing 7.4% policy request for lowrigorous demand response management, and we are carbon energy. According to the 2013 Plan for Electric 2013 striving to identify long-term 2017 growth engines. 2020 Power Generation, renewable energy will increase to Sixth Energy Plan, demand targets 14% in 2020 Reflected and 20%the in plan andMeanwhile, 6th 2027. share the load contribution to peak of thermal power generation such as coal and gas is ∷ Share of energy in 2027 ∷ ∷ Growth in power demand ∷ expected to shrink. Coal By resolving challenges involving renewable2015 energy, 30.0% Gas 21.2feasibility % 24.6% such as poor economic and unfavorable 2.9% 2.9% location, energy mix should be realigned and2014 the cost of supplying electric power 16.3%should be stabilized. 20% 28.7% 20.1% 2.1% Facility construction as a social concern 2013 7.4% The Fukushima nuclear accident and nuclear waste 2013 2017 2020 treatment are rising as a critical issue in society, Sixth Energy Plan, demand targets greaterthedemand which leads toReflected 6th plan and social consensus forcontribution to peak loadin Renewable technological safety and economic feasibility of nuclear energy Coal ∷ Reserves ∷ power plant. In addition, complaints surrounding the 30.0% Gas construction of transmission lines and substations got 24.6% attention, which increases the tangible and intangible 2015 costs for resolving social conflicts. KEPCO is coming 21.2% 2.9% up with midand long-term approaches to earn trust 202.9 % % 28.7% 2014 20.1% toward the construction of power facilities and electric 16.3% power itself from the stakeholders. 2.1% 2013 7.4% 2013 2017 2020 Renewable Sixth Energy Plan, demand targets Reflected the 6th plan and contribution to peak load energy Mr. Kim Jin-tae, Managing Director of Samjong KPMG What are the current global and domestic trends energy and ESS, will offer a big opportunity and issues in the electric power industry? to KEPCO if the company makes aggressive Global trends in the power industry include the investments in technology development. increasing importance of new and renewable energies Domestically, the imbalance in supply and and energy storage systems (ESS). Conditions such as demand can be an opportunity to reflect current increasing oil prices and depletion of fossil fuels have realities to the tariff, but at the same time, it necessitated a wider use of renewable energy and the may also present a threat in terms of a decrease development of ESS for the efficient storage of energy. in public trust and an increase in private power The main issues emerging domestically include the generation capacity. imbalance of supply and demand for electric power and greater fairness in the tariff system. It seems to be In what direction should KEPCO which has a a time for us to build public consensus on the power 115 years of history go forward in the next industry as a whole including power generation and the 100 years? electricity tariff system. The world cannot sustain itself without electricity and nobody can live without it. Since everyone is a Will those trends and issues pose crises and stakeholder, KEPCO should manage the company opportunities to KEPCO’s sustainability more transparently with open communication to management efforts? If so, what will they be? earn the respect and trust of the people it serves. The greater importance of Asia in terms of global energy In this light, KEPCO should become a global dynamics, as well as the rising need for renewable leader in the power industry. Sustainability Overview KEPCO Sustainability Report 2013 12 KEPCO “Global Top Green & Smart Energy Pioneer” Value System KEPCO is growing as an energy leader in global green growth. We build competitiveness and make the earth cleaner with green and smart technology. We are committed to contributing to the development of the global industry, economy and society by exploring overseas markets. By facilitating challenge and innovation, we are determined to be a global leader in the future energy industry. r Dom vide est n pro ic p ow tio er lu Glob ion al e lut ne Global National so rgy Champ Champ so vider 2020 pro Job creation and contribution to the national economic MISSION development through sustained growth r LowReliably supply power and contribute eato c e cr arbon alu CSR Energy , sm to the national economic development r v Leader Frontier me ar Sust rgy ainabl ne ec te EN & SMART ENE er us elop to dev GRE R GLOBAL TOP PIONEER GY Global Excellence Customer Respect VISION Performance Driven CORE VALUE KEPCO WAY We enhance the quality of life. Challenge & Innovation We contribute to the advancement of the national and Social Responsibility global industry, economy and society. We make the earth a better place, and the humanity happier. 13 Kim Jae-eun, CEO of the Institute for Industrial Policy Studies What are the recent trends in sustainability KEPCO should play, which will subsequently have a management? positive impact on Korean society. A leader thinks sustainability management begins from the point of contact with the customer. In which way should KEPCO move forward to Customers tend not to be aware of corpora te create shared value? strategies or policies, but they have a clear concept Shared value begins at the point where we of products and services in their mind. Against this recognize the coexisting interests of society and the backdrop, more companies are focusing on the company. The power industry has much potential development of sustainable products and services, in terms of creating shared value. By supplying ecoand the most important approach toward the friendly energy, it can promote the economic and sustainable products and services is innovation in the environmental development of society, and by value chain. encouraging efficient energy consumption, it can play a pivotal role in sustainable energy use. In terms of sustainable consumption, what KEPCO can also participate in eco-friendly energy contributions can the electric power industry projects in developing countries in areas including make toward economic/environment/social hydropower generation and CDM to guarantee development? people’s basic right of access to energy, and at Try to look at sustainability management from the same time, develop infrastructure in those the perspective of the overall value chain of the communities. This will contribute to the economic power industry and we will be able to identify new and social development of those countries. In other opportunities and roles. Not only stable supply words, global projects will lead to building a business and energy demand, but also sustainable fuel model for the power sector and creating meaningful development and the inducement of optimized shared value by supplying green energy and building energy consumption by consumers are the roles infrastructure. Create Enhance reliability new growth in domestic business engines Fulfill social •Sustained globalization responsibility •Demand growing in emerging countries •Globally recognized power quality •Transition to low-carbon energy Expand •Competence and experience global in overseas business business •KEPCO brand power Opportunity Strength Weakness Threat SWOT ANALYSIS STRATEGY •Vulnerable to fluctuations in oil prices and foreign exchange rates •Weak price decision making •Slowdown in domestic demand •Isolated power network •Fierce global competition •Stronger environmental regulation and demand for social responsibility Sustainability Overview KEPCO Sustainability Report 2013 14 Sustainability Basic operational mechanism KEPCO has 12 action items and key performance indicators in economy, environment and society. Management Mechanism Organization KEPCO has been operating a Corporate Sustainability Management (CSM) organization since 2005 in order to more systematically carry out sustainability management. Sustainability management activities are supervised by the Strategic Planning Team under the Future Strategy Department for a strategic, systematic approach and carried out by the departments (offices) in the head office and branch offices nationwide. ∷ KEPCO Substitutability Management Development stages Mission Statement ∷ KEPCO selected direction and actions required in the three key areas of economy, environment and society to raise the level of sustainability management. We will make continuous efforts to create higher value to share with stakeholders. ∷ Sustainability management system ∷ Vision Global Top Green & Smart Energy Pioneer Economy Environment Society Action Plans Strengthen basis for Establish low carbon and green Strengthen partnership future growth growth management with stakeholders Key Action Items Economy: sustained growth Environment: value creation Society: trust building Human: respect for human Mr. Ryu Young-jae, CEO of Susinvest What are the key factors regarding KEPCO’s thing that requires improvement, however, is the strategies for sustainability management limited amount of information regarding governance amid the global economic downturn? compared to that about the company releases on the KEPCO is involved in the power business, which is by environment and society. More efforts should be made nature sensitive to environmental regulations, and to show sustainability management performance and thus the company should formulate strategies for improvements in a transparent manner. sustainability to develop green energy technology and dominate the market. As a public company, What are the shortand long-term challenges in KEPCO should ensure sound financials, a stable the course of boosting KEPCO’s performance in supply of electric power, shared growth with SMEs corporate social responsibility investment? and a good relationship with the communities it In the short-term, more transparent disclosure and serves. increased communications with stakeholders should help investors with decision making. In the longer How would you assess KEPCO’s sustainability term, non-financial factors should be incorporated management efforts to date? into financial factors in order to show how they KEPCO has undertaken diverse endeavors for impacted the company’s performance and what sustainability management in terms of environment, financial performance really means in a broader society and governance. KEPCO also discloses sense. CSR investors place great importance in the information related to sustainability management company’s management and adjustment capabilities to stakeholders through its online portal, business by integrating environment, as well as social and reports and sustainability management reports. One governance risks with financial risk. 15 Key Performance Indicators for Sustainability Management KEPCO put in place key performance indicators (KPIs) in three major areas of economy, environment and society, in association with mid-to long-term strategies and management goals. 95~100% Over 100% achievement Performance 2012 Area Key performance indicators 2012 Target Achievement rate 2013 Target Performance 2010 2011 Electricity sales (GWh) 4,342 4,551 4,691 4,666 4,805 Overseas Sales (KRW 100 million) 14,248 24,224 27,540 29,007 31,044 Overseas Installed Capacity (MW) 3,502 3,406 3,816 3,744 4,367 Fuel Self-Sufficiency (%) 5.0 7.0 9.4 9.4 13.7 Economy Outage (minutes) 15.2 12.4 12.1 12.1 11.9 R&D investment (KRW 100 million) 3,211 2,427 3,113 1,878 3,045 Development of core strategic 4 6 6 19 technology (items/cumulative total) Green product purchases (%) 91.7 91.2 92.1 94.2 91.8 Underground T&D lines (%) 14.3 14.7 15.1 15.1 15.6 T&D loss rate (%) 4.0 3.7 3.7 3.6 3.7 Load factor (%) 75.9 77.4 75.8 78.2 75.8 Environment Demand response management (MW) 3,151 3,248 2,886 3,704 3,817 Domestic renewable energy New indicator 5.0 development (MW) CDM project (cases/cumulative total) 13 21 24 24 26 GHG emissions (CO2-1,000 ton) 2,036 1,249 1,919 1,307 2,211 Integrity as a public enterprise (points) 9.4 Exempted 9.2 8.7 9.0 Public perception 98.1 98.8 98.9 98.9 99.1 (customer satisfaction) Support for SMEs (KRW 100 million) 120 134 110 131 104 Purchase from SMEs (%) 68.5 70.5 66.9 68.1 70.1 Job creation (persons) 132 155 683 683 818 Volunteer service (h/person) 5.6 11.3 15.0 15.2 15.5 Industrial Accident Rate (%) 0.020 0.021 Below 0.032 0.036 0.026 Society Welfare satisfaction points) 70.0 70.8 71.0 70.8 71.3 Education and training hours 74.6 54.5 59.0 59.7 80.0 (per person) Employees with competence in overseas 1,044 1,044 1,383 business (persons) Female employees (%) 42.0 25.4 20.0 36.5 20.0 Employees with disabilities (%) 2.9 3.0 3.0 3.4 3.0 Information disclosure (%) 87.5 90.7 90.5 90.6 90.7 Sustainability Overview KEPCO Sustainability Report 2013 16 Governance Composition of the Board of Directors For a sustainable, independent decision making of the Board of Directors (BOD), KEPCO appoints a majority of BOD Structure members from those outside the company. The BOD consists of 15 members: seven executive (standing) directors including the CEO and eight non-executive (non-standing) directors. The BOD is chaired by a non-standing director in order to ensure a free, fair discussion about overall business management. The external directors are those experts in the areas of economics, academics and engineering who contribute to sustainability management by providing advice in business management and 119 Rescue Squad. Appointment and term in office of directors The appointment procedure and term in office are specified in the Act on the Operation of Public Organizations and the Articles of Association. When appointing the CEO, KEPCO receives applications for the candidate. The CEO is recommended by the Nomination Committee, consisting of non-standing directors and non-government members, approved by the Public Organizations ∷ Main resolutions and reports in 2012 ∷ Operation Committee and a resolution of the shareholders’ meeting, requested by the Minister of Trade, Industry and 2.22 1st meeting Energy, and finally appointed by the President for the term of three years. A standing director is appointed by the CEO after a resolution of the shareholders’ meeting. Among the standing IPP 3 project company directors, those who will also act as an audit committee member are recommended by the Nomination Committee, management system approved by the Steering Committee, requested by the Minister of Strategy and Finance, and appointed by the President. The term is two years. 3.15 2nd meeting The appointment of a non-standing director is recommended by the Executive Recommendation Committee, approved companies outside Korea by the Public Organizations Operation Committee and a resolution of the shareholders’ meeting. The non-standing director is then appointed by the Minister of Strategy and Finance for the term of 2 years. company to manage the Hornsdale wind farm in Australia The operation of the BOD and the prevention of conflict of interests 4.12 3rd meeting The BOD deliberate and vote on important management issues such as management goals, financial management for a non-standing member and evaluation plan, budgets and electricity tariff in accordance with the Articles of Incorporation and the BOD regulations. The criteria matters regarding economic, environmental and social performance are separately reported to the BOD. Also, if Conditions and Supplementary Power Supply necessary, the BOD invites experts or any person concerned to listen to their opinions. Terms and Conditions A director who has special interest with a resolution is not allowed to vote on the resolution under the BOD regulations. 5.17 4th meeting Those who do not participate in the meeting due to special interest are not counted as an incumbent director. A minute is created with the meeting date and time, place, list of participants, resolutions and vote results. The minute is disclosed on the KEPCO website without confidential management issues included. and the first quarter report of the Audit and Inspection Office Also, the executive directors may not carry out for-profit activities in accordance with the article that prohibits the 7.5 5th meeting concurrent holding of more than one office under the Act on the Operation of Public Institutions. purpose company for the development of Western South Sea offshore wind power project Composition Activity Evaluation 7.19 6th meeting BOD PrePerformance examination meeting deliberation mine in Australia Explanation Regular monitoring Receive 8.3 Executive meeting resolution 7th meeting Performance evaluation Non-standingdirectors’ meeting Management meeting D-7 D Report to the BOD meeting Conditions and Supplementary Power Supply Terms and Conditions Feedback & Rolling Midand long-term financial management plan Deliberation Notification Identify areas to improve/ 8.16 8th meeting Audit Nomination Expert of meeting reflect to plan Committee Committee Committee non-standing member and evaluation criteria 10.15 9th meeting technology and the second quarter report of the Audit and Inspection Office Executive directors (Standing members) management plan 11.8 10th meeting for equity investment regarding the construction and operation of the UAE NPP project Inspection Office and the conclusion of a contract 11.9 11th meeting for a non-standing member and evaluation criteria CEO Executive Vice President Executive Vice President Executive Vice President Executive Vice President 12.27 12th meeting of Management Support of Power Technology & of Marketing and Division Engineering Division Operation Division Cho Hwan-ik Park Kyu-ho Paek Seung-jung Kim Byung-sook Koo Bon-woo 17 Evaluation and Remuneration Following consultations with the Nomination Committee, the CEO signs a pact with the Minister of Trade, Industry and Energy with respect to management objectives and key issues to be achieved and addressed during his or her tenure. Every year, the progress made with regard to this pact is reviewed by the Performance Appraisal Board for Public Corporations which is composed of experts from various fields. The standing directors are required to set management objectives and sign a pact with the CEO, and they are evaluated every year for performance-based remuneration. The non-standing directors are assessed for their performance to be considered for reappointment. The directors’ remuneration is decided within the range approved at the BOD meeting, and non-standing directors receive expenses for work. Effective BOD Selected as In order to invigorate the board operation and realize responsible management, KEPCO strengthened the preTop 5 Companies deliberation process, built a system where non-standing members can regularly offer management advice, expand the in 2012 real-time management disclosure system, and bought a liability insurance policy. With these systematic mechanism of East Asia Governance 30 the BOD governance, KEPCO became the first public corporation to be included in top 5 companies in “2012 East Asia in 2012, for the first time as a Governance 30” organized by Asia CSR Expert Committee, which assessed 6 criteria including BOD structure. public corporation Composition and operation of the Audit Committee ∷ BOD operation in 2012 ∷ Received ESG A grade The Audit Committee is charged with oversight of from Korea Corporate Governance business management and accounting. The Committee Service in 2012 (5 years in a row) oversees and supports the BOD to help management decision making maximize corporate value in a system of checks and balances. The Committee is composed of and operated by three directors of the BOD: one standing member and two 12 60.8% 51 resolutions 12.8% Portion of BOD meetings Preliminary non-standing members with one accounting or financial deliberation (12 reports revised rate for consideration) resolution expert. The Committee is chaired by a non-standing member to ensure a transparent and reasonable oversight system. In 2012, 12 audit meetings were held where it voted on 11 resolutions including the annual audit plan for ∷ Maximizing the non-executive 2012 and received 10 reports for consideration. The 92.9% 91.4% 75.4% directors’ competency ∷ BOD meeting Non-executive Portion of appropriateness and performance of the auditing participation directors' non-executive activities of the standing auditor are evaluated by the participation directors' · Build database of potential directors comments Expand · Professional organization’s executive Performance Appraisal Board of Public Enterprises. the pool recommendation committee · Internal recommendation ∷ Increased rate of revised resolutions and deliberation time as a result of more intensive deliberation process ∷ Support · Operate and monitor a management system information sharing system Rate of resolution Deliberation time per · Visit overseas project sites (3 times) (UAE, revision 12.8% resolution 37 minutes On-site management wind farm in China) · Island power project (2 times) 8.9%P▲ 56%▲ · Power supply war room 24 minutes · Participate in the Property Disposal 3.9% Expertise Deliberation Committee utilization · Advise 119 Rescue Service Team · Engage in expert committees by area · Regular management proposal system 2011 2012 2011 2012 Nonexecutive directors (Non-standing members) Former full-time advisor Former advisor to the Professor of Politics Advisor to Korea Standing auditor for Professor of Chemical Visiting professor at to SK Energy, BOD Saenuri Party for state and Foreign Affairs at Institute of Industrial BC Card Engineering at Yonsei Korea University Chairman affairs Hanyang University Technology University Mr. Lee Tae-sik Mr. Shin Il-soon Mr. Kim Kyung-min Mr. Chung Hae-ju Mr. Nam Dong-kyun Mr. Kim Jung-hyun Mr. Rim Ju-hwan Sustainability Overview KEPCO Sustainability Report 2013 18 Risk Building the enterprise risk management response system KEPCO formulates its Risk Management Plan every year to prevent crises that threaten the company such as business Management management risks, natural disaster, bad publicity and conflicts. The departments in charge of respective types of risk manage manuals to ensure greater responsibility, and assessment on manuals by risk type is done regularly to raise the efficiency of risk management. Risks are classified into 10 types in four areas including those that occurred in the past, those that are likely to cause a crisis to KEPCO if one occurs, those that are likely to result in a potential risk. In order to eliminate and minimize risk factors and to promptly respond to crises, KEPCO built a risk management portal, based on which the company runs simulation training by risk type on a regular basis and in an effort to efficiently utilize resources and capabilities when an actual crisis comes. ∷ Risk alert and response system ∷ Risk monitoring Cancel warning Preventive activities Detection Risk increase Crisis Resolved White alert Assessment Yellow alert Orange alert Response team Red alert Preparations Response Recovery Internal control system For greater transparency, KEPCO is operating an internal control system to satisfy the requirements of the Korean Act on External Audit of Stock Companies and the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, as the company is listed on the New York Stock Exchange. Every year we disclose the operating status of the internal control system to KRX and the Financial Services Commission, and submit an external auditor’s attestation report on internal controls to the US SEC. These compliance efforts allow KEPCO to meet global standards in accounting transparency. Since the internal control system was first introduced to KEPCO in March 2005, which includes six generation companies, in accordance with Article 2-2 of the Act on External Audit of Stock Companies, the system was redesigned as an internal control system in the ERP environment in November 2006. As the International Financial Reporting Standard (IFRS) was adopted by listed companies in 2011, the control procedure was standardized into a work process centering on consolidated financial information. KEPCO will continue to discover control points to raise awareness about risks and their prevention in daily activities. We will meet the needs of financial information users by improving these processes and reinforce corporate social responsibility with transparent accounting. ∷ Operation of the internal accounting management system ∷ Financial Supervisory KRX Service Matters on the internal control system Evaluation External auditor Opinions in the audit Disclosure report Board of Directors Reporting White alert Evaluation Reporting Reporting Evaluate the operation of the internal control management (Must have related regulations and organization) Internal controller 19 Ethical KEPCO is a leading organization in anti-corruption efforts in the public sector. KEPCO earned the highest grade in anticorruption competitiveness assessment organized by the Anti-Corruption and Civil Rights Commission for 7 consecutive Management years from 2006, and our anti-corruption plan was introduced on the ACRC website as an exemplary case. In order to become an ethical company that is respected and trusted by the people, we formed a preventive ethical management environment by expanding a culture of integrity, and strengthened corruption control activities. ∷ Integrity assessment of public institutions ∷ 9.56 points 9.47 points 9.56 points 9.45 points 9.33점 9.08 points Ranked Ranked Ranked Ranked Ranked Exempted Ranked 2nd 1st 1st 1st 1st 4th (2/9) (1/19) (1/10) (1/13) (1/21) from (4/26) evaluation 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Systematic corruption diagnosis and monitoring In an effort to diagnose and monitor corruption and to bolster integrity, KEPCO has been carried out internal integrity surveys every year since 2003. We set our integrity target which are used as a criterion in internal management assessment. To improve integrity, we press ahead with system improvement in areas prone to corruption. The headquarters provides integrity consulting services to branch offices with low integrity levels. Mr. Park Byung-il, Managing Director of Gallup Korea What is the relationship between the sustainability efforts to build a Clean KEPCO. KEPCO carries management of a company and corporate ethics out internal integrity surveys twice a year and a and transparency? survey on the integrity of senior level employees Corporate ethics and transparency is a prerequisite to once a year. As a result, bribery rates have improving the sustainability of a company. If ethics and shown a constant decrease since 2004 and never transparency is omitted, sustainability management exceeded 0.01% in 7 surveys conducted since cannot be achieved. 2010. In the past, corporate management focused on profit creation, but today, the value of transparent and What is your recommendation for KEPCO to ethical management has become as significant as profit become a global energy leader? making. Enhancing corporate ethics and transparency is Warren Buffet said, “It takes 20 years to build also a necessity in becoming a global company, a reputation, but only five minutes to ruin it,” emphasizing the importance of integrity and Please assess KEPCO’s efforts and performance in trust. This is what KEPCO, a company trying achieving a “Clean KEPCO.” to become a global energy leader, should In June 2013, Gallup Korea conducted a survey on remember. Achievements in corporate ethics the integrity of KEPCO. One of the outcomes was and transparency are laurels which shouldn’t that responses stated “it is hard to have dinner with be rested upon, as even the slightest dent in KEPCO employees due to their ‘too rigorous’ integrity the company’s armor can ruin the company’s standards.” This demonstrates the strict standards and credibility. This should never be forgotten. Sustainability Overview KEPCO Sustainability Report 2013 20 Rigorous measures against corruption KEPCO strengthened the punishment of corruption, and adopted a one-strike out system for those employees who received money and entertainment, and a three-strike out system for those who committed embezzlement, negligence or misappropriation. To reinforce the information collection of corrupt behaviors, we operate a reporting system under which KEPCO employees, general public and the employees of KEPCO partner companies can report any corruption cases whether under their name or anonymously. We regularly distribute anonymous envelops to encourage employees to report any irregularities. With the operation of the report system, 21 corruption cases were identified in 2012, and 45 employees who were found to have committed irregularities after investigation were punished with dismissal and other penalty. Expansion of ethical management system KEPCO established the Codes of Conduct for Suppliers which incorporates the 10 principles of the UN Global Compact, OECD company guidelines and ILO labor and environment guidelines in July 2012 for the first time as a public organization. We ensured practicality of the codes of ethics by integrating with electronic bidding system and including this in the requirements of tender participation and a special condition for contract. In May 2012, KEPCO signed the KEPCO Group Joint Compact on Integrity and Ethical Practices with 10 subsidiaries in an effort to act on and expand ethical management. The companies share anti-corruption best practices and jointly held an integrity and ethics festival. Suppliers’ Codes of Conduct guideline ∷ KEPCO Suppliers’ Codes of Conduct ∷ Ethical standard Social standard Environmental standard Employees’ Codes Suppliers’ Codes of Conduct of Conduct labor regulations and safety regulations BUSINESS subcontracting PARTNER technology of employees race and gender Codes of Conduct 27,049 companies including Lotte E&C and Cockatoo (Australia) Select a partner with a fair collusion-free system KEPCO has developed and operated a KEPCO collusion-free system since July 2013 designed to prevent collusive bids and encourage fair competition. Currently, the system governs those produced by large companies and will be expanded to all products supplied to KEPCO. Save procurement costs Anti-collusion system Prevention Curb electricity tariff hikes Promote fair competition Detection Enhance the public convenience Trade Commission and interest Partnership Achieve a national best practices policy project Contribute to the state affairs 21 Expanding integrity culture and ethics education KEPCO runs the ABC Program designed to provide ethics education and programs customized to executives, employees and stakeholders. We also put in place the IRS Process which includes the operation of inspection team and an anonymous report center for a constant control of corruption risks. ∷ IRS Process ∷ ∷ ABC Program ∷ Ethics leadership Inspection Reinforcement A ction first by leaders (executive) participants) status report of general managers (March 2012) center Bottom-up participation B ottom-up approach (employee) candidates for promotion) Regulation Revision (September 2012) Cooperative ethics management (twice) C ollaboration (stakeholders) partners (187 companies) System Operation Integrity and ethics education with anonymity KEPCO pushes for diverse and creative ethics education programs including cyber integrity training and the development of leaders for anti-corruption, which laid the foundation for executives, employees and stakeholders to requests for favor make the right decision in an ethical dilemma. In 2012, integrity training was provided to 762 students of the KEPCO Academy including those newly employed, and collusion 8,668 employees (including 942 who work in corruption-prone areas) took integrity courses. Also, 95 leaders for anticorruption were nurtured in the integrity leadership courses. Other integrity trainings include the sessions held in branch offices organized by the standing audit director (13 offices/2,672 employees) and the integrity and ethics festival (326 employees). ∷ Complaint cases reported to Sinmungo ∷ Trainee (number) Number of Courses 2010 sessions 2011 Team leaders Employees Total 3,646 2,699 2012 KEPCO Academy integrity training 20 87 385 472 2,653 Complaint handling Cyber integrity training 11 731 8,718 9,449 98.8% Decrease in number of complaints Integrity leadership course 5 95 95 Lectures of the Auditor General 13 385 2,287 2,672 Other inspection organizations’ training 3 326 326 Total of trainees 1,203 11,811 13,014 Number of current employees 1,481 17,797 19,278 Completion rate 81% 66% 67.5% Complaint handling system 2011 KEPCO integrated complaint receiving channels, such as the Internet, 2012 external organization and calls, into one called “Sinmungo” to 2,699 2,653 Complaint systematically handle complaints, their handling process and results. handling In principle, those who filed a complaint can get response within 7 98.8% business days, and KEPCO Ombudsman composed of independent e in number of complaints people conducts a quarterly review on complaints and their handling for transparent and sensible operation of our complaint handling system. The Sinmungo system received 2,653 complaints in 2012, and 98.8% of the received cases were handled within 7 business days. As a result of constant efforts to enhance systems and practices, the number of complaints has been down since 2011. Sustainability Overview KEPCO Sustainability Report 2013 22 Code of Ethics Enacted in Feb. 1996 1st Revision in Dec. 2003 2nd Revision in Jan. 2005 3rd Revision in Dec. 2009 4th Revision in Dec. 2010 We are truly proud that KEPCO has contributed to the development of the national economy and society by providing the best quality service and electric power to all customers. That pride and self-confidence is now being leveraged to make KEPCO a global power company that continues to grow and develop together with all stakeholders. To this end we are pursuing core values, which are “Global Excellence,” “Customer Respect,” “Performance Drive,” “Challenge & Innovation” and “Social Responsibility.” We understand that fair and transparent operation, firmly grounded in corporate ethics, is essential for us to achieve that end. Therefore this Code of Ethics has been adopted and all employees are required to follow it as the standard for correct behavior and proper decision making. and perform tasks in a fair and faithful manner. them proud of our company. participate in public interest activities as a member of society so as to contribute to the development of the nation and society. Chapter 1 General Provisions values through continuous changes and innovations. This Code of Ethics is the standard for correct behavior and 3. We disclose corporate information in a transparent proper decision making. It must be complied with by all manner, provide more opportunities to participate KEPCO employees in order to create a corporate culture in the company decision-making process and help based on fairness, transparency and business ethics. shareholders and investors exercise their rights. Chapter 2 Basic Ethics for KEPCO Employees Chapter 5 Ethical Treatment of Employees 1. We share company’s core values and vision, fulfill 1. We respect each and every employee, give equal our duties and pursue personal and company growth opportunities to them according to their competence, through continuous self-development. and neither discriminate nor provide special treatment 2. We abide by all laws, perform tasks in a fair and faithful on the basis of gender, educational background, manner, make no unfair profit and strive to maintain religion, age, or disabilities. personal dignity and the company reputation. 2. We fully support employees’ efforts to develop 3. We recognize that both labor and management are themselves and grow into the professionals necessary owners of our company and take the lead in pursuing for our company to succeed. We also create a work shared growth and co-prosperity built on trust and environment that encourages creative and empowered understanding. thinking and behavior. 3. We establish a pleasant and safe work environment and strive to make employees proud of the company based Chapter 3 Ethical Treatment of Customers and Suppliers on mutual trust and understanding. 1. In the spirit of respecting customers, we always put customer value first and earn customers’ trust by providing them with the best quality electricity and services. Article 6 Ethical Treatment of the Nation and Society 2. We respect the order of the market economy based 1. We continuously grow and develop through reasonable on the principle of free competition and compete with and responsible management so as to contribute to the others in good faith on the basis of mutual respect. development of a nation and society and fulfill social 3. We provide a fair chance to suppliers, perform tasks in a responsibilities as a corporate citizen. mutually equal position and seek win-win growth with 2. We promote safety awareness to protect employees and suppliers by providing them with diverse kinds of support. customers in the spirit of respect for all people. Understanding the importance of protecting the environment, we comply with Korean and foreign environmental laws and regulations Chapter 4 Ethical Treatment of Shareholders and Investors and endeavor to protect the environment and prevent 1. We make sound profits through efficient management pollution. and transparent performance so as to protect the 3. We abide by Korean and foreign laws and regulations returns of shareholders and investors. and international agreements, and we respect the 2. We pursue the sound growth and development of our culture of host countries and contribute to their company over the long term by enhancing corporate economic development. Issue Reporting & Performance Issue Selection Process Issue 01 Customer Value Solutions Issue 02 Global Growth Issue 03 Future Growth Engine Issue 04 Eco-Friendly Value for the Community Issue 05 Carbon Emissions Reduction Issue 06 Sharing and Mutual Prosperity Issue 07 HR Development for the Future Issue 08 Pleasant and Happy Work Environment Issue Reporting & Performance KEPCO Sustainability Report 2013 24 Issue Selection KEPCO carried out a materiality assessment to understand the interests of stakeholders and their impact on the company, as well as to focus our sustainability report on those issues that are important and affect internal decision Process making. The assessment was composed of four steps: prioritizing, review, confirmation and report of issues from a pool of 30 issues based on an analysis of domestic and international trends, best practices of sustainable management and media research. This assessment has helped KEPCO management establish the level of priority for each issue and take a structured approach to the significant issues among them. step 1 step 2 step 3 step 4 Identification of Issues Prioritize Review Confirming and Reporting Internal issues Organizational impact Review by independent By area experts Review by management External issues Interest of stakeholders Issue Key Materiality pool issues assessment ∷ Material Assessment Matrix ∷ Business impact (A, B) 5.00 Appropriate power reserves and Eco-friendly value of the expansion of supply capacity power supply chain Responsible management system centering on BOD Future growth engines Green power technology (Clean energy, high-efficiency Responsible management development and commercialization smart grid, sophisticated system centering on BOD generation technology Stable power supply to contribute Stronger eco-friendly management system to economic development (pollution prevention, ecosystem protection, Climate change and low environmental management system) carbon green growth Mutually beneficial management for SMEs Communication and harmony with communities Global leadership in power technology Overseas power projects and Risk management against resources development Community involvement and uncertainties in management Future-oriented human strategic social contribution resources development Organizational innovation and Improved quality of life of employees stronger performance through welfare enhancement 5.00 Social interest (C, D, E) Following the materiality assessment process, KEPCO drew issues. For economy, stable supply of power, expansion of overseas business for creating growth engines, and technology development were selected. For environment, green values in the overall value chain of the power industry and green technology development to tackle climate change were chosen. For society, the virtuous cycle of sustainable values for the participation and development of the communities, future-oriented human resources development and work life balance were selected. 25 Stakeholder Clarify classification with internal/external External General public/customers, Relevant organizations Overseas business partners classification groups (Government, National assembly) Expand overseas business Employees in Korea, to create growth engines Internal Employees overseas Labor union Participation of stakeholders KEPCO’s customers include all residents of Korea who use electricity, the people in countries where KEPCO is 2012 Korea undertaking projects, related organizations and corporations. Customers are categorized based on the characteristics SNS Award of stakeholders into shareholders, creditors, the government, civic groups, suppliers and employees. Our customers in public sector (August 2012) participate in decision making and the selection of sustainable management issues through shareholders meetings, investment presentations, the ombudsman system, several committees and the Voice of Customers. KEPCO analyzes customer needs through VOC and works to provide better services. Through the operation of a service proposal system, we adopted 144 proposals and incorporated them into our business activities. ∷ VOC performance ∷ External Customers Interfaces Cyber Customer center Other system Phone call Others Total No. of cases 21,779 13,228 1,669 1,240 199 38,115 KEPCO is facilitating two-way communication via Facebook, Twitter, Me2day and other social networking tools. Partners KEPCO held four meetings between KEPCO management and partner companies in 2012 and arranged management at home and visits to the headquarters of those partners. KEPCO’s SME support system and cyber counseling center handle abroad difficulties experienced by our suppliers, which are subsequently considered in efforts to improve our system. Regarding investor protection and investors’ right to know, we disclose corporate information. KEPCO has been selected as a company with good corporate governance in 2008, 2010 and 2012 in an evaluation by the Korea Exchange and Corporate Governance Service which recognized the company’s exemplary disclosure practices. ∷ Corporate disclosure ∷ Shareholders Category Regular disclosure Fair disclosure Voluntary disclosure Group company SEC disclosure 2010 4 16 38 4 43 2011 4 15 47 4 65 2012 4 19 32 4 43 KEPCO operates a disclosure management system to review disclosure rates quarterly and strengthen internal training. In 2012, the company implemented a real-time information sharing system with the government to enable automatic information requests and response notifications, which reduced the time required to handle requests for information from 240 minutes to 3 minutes. In addition, KEPCO is widening the scope of understanding and communication through community contributions in regions including that where the company’s headquarters is moving and where transmission lines are being built, while partnerships are being established between the company and nearby communities. We also reach out to local communities near Naju where KEPCO’s new headquarters will be located and Milyang where new transmission line passes through, and through “one office, one community” sisterly relationship in an effort to Government/ widen the understanding and communication with these communities. society ∷ Disclosure of information ∷ ∷ Shorter request handling time ∷ Category 2010 2011 2012 240 minutes Number of information subject to disclosure 321 236 426 3 minutes Number of disclosed information 281 214 386 Disclosure rate (%) 87.5 90.7 90.6 2011 2012 Employees/ KEPCO has established a number of communication channels including the Junior Board, CEO morning meetings, Internal labor union KEPCO Today newsletter, Day of Management Report, and labor management workshops. Issue 01 Customer Value Solutions Highest customer Outage duration Voltage maintenance factor satisfaction 14 years in a row 12.07 min/ household 99.93 % Prevented supply-related Built a smarter power network Expanded the mobile-based billing emergencies for 19 days including digital substations system What we’ve done KEPCO’s primary responsibility is to reliably provide high quality WHAT electricity to end users. The service with which we provide electric power has been evaluated as being among the best. KEPCO develops technology and apply new engineering HOW techniques to prevent loss in the course of transmitting power. We enhance customer satisfaction by improving customer service. KEPCO promotes demand-responsive supply and contributes to WHY the nation’s economic advancement. This is the objective of the corporation and our reason of existence. 27 Issue 1 Customer Value Solutions Stable power supply Thorough Demand-side KEPCO has made an all-out effort to supply reliable power in order to overcome power shortages experienced since 2010 management saved by realigning demand-side management. In 2012, thorough demand-side management saved 3,704MW, equivalent to 3,704MW the output of four nuclear power plant units, and prevented 41 emergency power supply incidents including 9 rolling blackouts. As insufficient reserves are expected until 2014, KEPCO will continue to run demand response projects yearround by identifying new means to induce curtailment in energy consumption, developing energy efficiency programs, and distributing high-efficiency appliances. Based on the outcome of projects, KEPCO maintained one of the world’s highest load factors (76.3%) in 2012. ∷ Load factor trend ∷ Category 2010 2011 2012 Load factor (%) 75.9 77.6 76.3 Peak demand (MW) 71,308 73,137 75,987 Average power (MW) 54,185 56,723 58,012 ∷ Load factor by nation (2012) ∷ 76.3% 64.7% 67.8% 59.7% 60.6% Korea U.S. U.K. France Japan Professor Won Jong-ryul of Anyang University What do you think upset the balance recently management policies designed to let consumers between power supply and demand? recognize the power supply crisis and encourage Power consumption in Korea has increased constantly their participation in overcoming it. KEPCO should since the 1970s due to the rise in living standards and also drive the industry structure away from high greater pursuit of convenience. Despite the continued energy consumption to low energy consumption. rise in fuel prices, electricity prices have remained low compared to gas and oil, which has contributed What words of encouragement would you to a surge in heating and cooling with electricity. give to KEPCO as it tries to earn the trust Accordingly, power demand hits new records every year and respect of the public? and the need to build power plants continues. As the With more than a century of history, KEPCO has construction of power facilities leads to issues regarding laid the foundation of industrial development, environment and social consensus, the vicious cycle in return for which the opinions against KEPCO’s continues. corporate management are getting stronger. KEPCO needs to face this as it continues to What leadership role should KEPCO play to contribute to national and power industry resolve shortages in the electricity supply? development by sharing fruit and promoting The paradigm of the power industry has moved from the mutual advancement to get rid of negative provider to user. It is necessary to implement demand images. Issue Reporting & Performance KEPCO Sustainability Report 2013 28 Electricity sales As the domestic economy faltered in 2012, electricity sales recorded a 2.5% increase from the previous year, which stood at 466,592GWh. Meanwhile, electricity rates were raised and the sales amount rose 13.8% to 46.23 trillion won. Even with an annual sales increase and the company’s efforts to reduce costs, which resulted in a cost reduction of around 700 billion won in 2012 alone, KEPCO recorded a net loss of over 3 trillion won in 2012 due to rising international energy prices, the electricity tariff under production cost, and the account receivables accumulated by the fuel cost pass-through system. Business conditions in the power industry, including a slowdown in power demand, stronger regulations on greenhouse gas emissions and energy price hikes are not expected to be favorable to KEPCO. Not to be even more negatively affected by these unfavorable conditions, the company will strive to enhance its financial performance by creating new profit engines including overseas power projects, implementing sustained cost reduction measures and operating a reasonable tariff system such as the fuel cost pass-along. With a strong commitment to bolster the company’s financial KEPCO thoroughly complies with fair trade rules and regulations in an effort to establish a fair, free trade environment in business, and has never been fined or faced a non-monetary sanction. KEPCO has also never donated any money to a political party or received subsidies of any kind from the government. ∷ Power Service Charter ∷ We are the driving force of the ∷ Sales trend ∷ national industry. We will abide by the following in order to reliably Category 2010 2011 2012 provide electricity and quality service so that customers can satisfy. Volume (GWh) 434,160 455,070 466,592 Amount(KRW trillion) 37.4 40.6 46.2 We are the driving force of the national industry. We will abide by the following One, in order to reliably provide electricity and quality service so that customers can satisfy. Customer service KEPCO continues to improve its customer-oriented operating system to satisfy the diverse needs of customers. In 2012, We will maintain affordable KEPCO allowed customers who requested electricity use to pay new installation in installments. We provided support and stable electricity tariff funds for the replacement of old transformers that were in use for over 15 years in high-voltage apartment buildings. Two, based on the cost method. The supply of 154kV was expanded from 500,000kW to 600,000kW in the interest of national economics. KEPCO also reduced security deposits for small tenants so that customers can actually feel the effects of the efforts we make in customer service. We will think and act from the The customers can make reservation for any customer service on the Internet and get replies in the name of the Three, perspective of customers and handle head of branch offices for their complaint or question. Electricity charges are billed via cell phone and email. For the the requests promptly, precisely and kindly. expansion of paperless billing, the smartphone application service is in greater use and 3.88 million households started to use the application in 2012 alone, with the total number of IT-based billing users standing at 8.16 million. KEPCO plans to expand the mobile cyber branch to accommodate the needs for ubiquitous service based on smartphone. Such service will allow customers to view the information on their electricity use and file complaints regardless of time and place, which boosts the customer’s right to knowledge and convenience. Product liability for customers KEPCO has implemented the Power Service Charter since May 1999. Based on the service standards, we provide quality customer service and compensate for any inappropriate services. Ms. Joo Kyung-sook (customer) “KEPCO’s smart customer service makes life easier!” “KEPCO offers its own smartphone application. I hope many people can use this application for different purposes and for greater convenience. KEPCO cyber or mobile branches provide diverse useful information Excellent customer service which will make your life a bit easier.” for 14 consecutive years 29 Issue 1 Customer Value Solutions Operation of T&D facilities Outage duration KEPCO’s SAIDI stood at 12.07 in 2012, among the world’s best, a 2.8% year-on-year decrease which was achieved by 12.07 min/ household diagnosing distribution lines with high-tech IT equipment, such as thermographic and ultrasound cameras and optical binoculars, and transmission lines from helicopters. KEPCO plans to decrease its SAIDI to around 7 minutes by 2020 by bolstering the power quality management capacity, for example, working to prevent a blackout initiated by highvoltage customers, strengthening the support for customer facilities, and enhancing the expertise of personnel in charge of T&D facility diagnosis. In terms of T&D loss rates, KEPCO recorded 3.57% in 2012, one of the lowest among advanced countries. This was achieved with KEPCO’s constant effort to reduce power loss: integrating the operation of 154kV light duty transformers, equilibrium operation of distribution lines, using low-loss transformers, removal of idle transformers, and allowing the use of cut-out switches for agricultural transformers during the suspended period of electricity use. Lower T&D loss rates are translated into higher efficiency in energy supply. ∷ Power quality comparison ∷ Category KEPCO(2012) U.S.(2009) U.K.(2011) France(2011) Japan(2008) SAIDI (min/household, year) 12.07 120 68 73 10 T&D loss rate (%) 3.57 6.1 7.7 7.2 5.0 T&D facility development For better power supply, KEPCO carried out 33 transmission and 31 substation projects, which expanded facilities in a timely manner. When constructing power facilities, KEPCO utilizes a site construction process where all stakeholders participate in order to protect the environment, property and the health of stakeholders. This process, which respects humans, helps minimize conflicts when constructing facilities. KEPCO also applies information technology to power facilities to build smart T&D networks like digital substations. The company is reducing construction costs and bolstering the efficiency of power facilities by developing new technology and engineering techniques including reduced connections on underground transmission cables. KEPCO plans to enhance its network efficiency by developing new technologies including high voltage direct current (HVDC) and energy storage systems (ESS) which take into account trends related to more renewable energy plugged in from an offshore wind power complex to be built off Korea’s southwest coast, thus increasing demand for power, and an ever more complicated power system. ∷ T&D facilities ∷ Year 1990 2000 2010 2011 2012 765kV 595 835 835 835 345kV 4,935 7,281 8,580 8,653 8,770 Transmission line (c-km) 154kV~ 14,497 18,706 21,261 21,761 22,017 Total 19,432 26,582 30,676 31,249 31,622 Distribution line (c-km) 231,263 351,264 428,259 435,549 442,640 No. of substations 319 483 731 749 768 Issue Reporting & Performance KEPCO Sustainability Report 2013 30 Business infrastructure innovation KEPCO strives to ensure financial soundness with profit making measures such as innovating its engineering and procurement system, cost reduction in construction and operation processes, enhancing its power trading system, asset utilization, preventing profit leaks and expansion of overseas business. These efforts resulted in a cost reduction of 690 billion won in 2012; in 2013, KEPCO will ratchet up effort to cut costs and generate profits to offset an expected increase in power supply cost. ∷ Standing in the market ∷ KEPCO has identified issues and improved across 900 standard operation procedures (SOPs) since November 2011 in order to innovate its work 29 standings processes. Such actions paid off in the form of strengthening the company’s horizontal decision making system, innovating work processes 235 by ensuring that enterprise SOPs meet ISO standards, and clarifying 264 responsibilities and rights with regard to the process at each step. 271 32 standings 548 580 591 2011 2012 2013 ∷ Distribution in financial value ∷ 13,000 2010 Lenders 14,000 2011 16,000 2012 Interest paid (unit: 100 million won) Shareholders N/A 252 -1,462 Government -1,636 National tax 57,407 342,101 399,508 Partner 42,675 387,263 429,938 companies 39,977 440,591 480,568 Procurement, Electric power labor service purchased 443 Community 363 372 Social contributions + Local government taxes 13,044 1,6311,541 16,216 Executives and 13,101 1,859 1,648 16,608 employees 13,741 2,073 1,745 17,559 Payroll cost Retirement Welfare payment expenses Issue 02 Global Growth 21 countries Sales in overseas business Generation capacity from equity investment 42 projects 2.9 trillion won 6,181MW Poured first concrete for Won a 1,200MW thermal Awarded the company’s first overseas the first NPP unit in the UAE power plant project in Vietnam wind farm project in Jordan What we’ve done Utilizing over 110 years of experience in Korea’s power sector, WHAT KEPCO looks to boost profits while contributing to economic value creation in countries where we do business. KEPCO’s overseas business began with a power generation HOW project in the Philippines in 1995, while today, we are carrying out 42 projects in renewable, nuclear, thermal energy, T&D and mineral resources development in 21 countries. To overcome slowing growth in demand in Korea and rise WHY as a global energy company, KEPCO is expanding into the global market. Issue Reporting & Performance KEPCO Sustainability Report 2013 32 Global Network As of the end of 2012, KEPCO possesses a generation capacity of 6,181MW in equity investment overseas and recorded KRW 2,908.5 billion in sales outside of Korea. The company will continue to improve profitability and enter into global power markets in partnership with Korean construction companies and equipment manufacturers, which will ultimately create new jobs. Kazakhstan · Substation, 500kV/220kV China London office · Shanxi (Coal, 6,290MW) · Inner Mongolia (Wind, 991MW) Jordan · Gansu (Wind, 99MW) · Fujeij (WIND 90MW) · Liaoning (Wind, 225MW) · Al Qatrana (Gas, 373MW) · IPP3 (Diesel,573MW) UAE Beijing office Niger · Barakah (Nudear, 5,600MW) Tokyo office · Imouraren (Uranium) · Shuweihat S# (Gas, 1,600MW) India · Distribution Grid Philippines · Ilijan (Gas, 1,200MW) · Cebu (Coal, 200MW) Riyadh office · Naga (Coal/Oil, 243MW) Hanoi office Saudi Arabia · Rabigh (Oil, 1,204MW) Nigeria · Petroleum Indonesia Johannesburg office · Bavan Resources (Coal) · Adaro energy (Coal) Australia · Moolarven (Coal) · Cockatoo (Coal) · Bylong (Coal) 33 Issue 2 Global Growth Canada New York office · Denison (Uranium) · Cree East (Uranium) · Waterbury (Uranium) · EFI (Uranium) · STM (Uranium) Dominican Republic · Distribution Grid Mexico · Norte II (Gas, 433MW) 7 overseas offices Power generation 9 projects in 12 countries Nuclear power 1UAE Project Thermal power 10 projects in 7 countries Renewable energy 1 Chinese project Transmission & distribution 17 projects in 12 countries Mineral resources development 12 projects in 4 countries ∷ Sales from overseas projects ∷ Classification 2010 2011 2012 Total (100 million won) Thermal 6,537 7,971 9,661 47,578 Nuclear 6,014 11,674 14,901 32,589 Mineral resources 1,710 4,076 3,826 9,892 T&D 56 404 697 1,521 Total 14,437 24,125 29,085 91,580 Issue Reporting & Performance KEPCO Sustainability Report 2013 34 Nuclear power On December 27, 2009, KEPCO was awarded the contract for a US$18.6 billion nuclear power plant project in the UAE by the Emirates Nuclear Energy Corporation (ENEC). The project will see built four Korean standard 1,400MW reactors (APR1400) totaling 5,600MW, with the first unit to be completed in May 2017, and the subsequent units to be completed one every year until 2020. After the UAE nuclear deal, KEPCO entered into subcontract agreements with its group companies and private companies to successfully complete the project and build premium nuclear power plants. At present, KEPCO is designing an NPP best suitable for the UAE conditions and manufacturing and purchasing main equipment. The pouring of first concrete was carried out for the first unit in 2012 and the second unit in 2013, evidence of the project remaining on schedule. KEPCO is actively formulating localization strategies and has held nuclear road show events for Saudi Arabia, South Africa and Vietnam, which are among the countries planning to build their first nuclear power plant. ▲NPP construction in UAE ▲Signing of contract for Nghi Son II project in Vietnam ▲Wind farm in Inner Mongolia Thermal power Following the completion of the Philippines Malaya thermal power project in 1995, as of early 2013, KEPCO has since expanded its overseas business activities to China, UAE, Saudi Arabia and Mexico. In early 2013, KEPCO was awarded the right to build the 1,200MW Nghi Son II thermal power plant project by the Ministry of Industry and Trade of Vietnam. Renewable energy projects In 2011, KEPCO won an additional 93MW wind power project in Inner Mongolia, China, proving to the world energy market the excellence of KEPCO in wind power, and at the same time earning KEPCO carbon credit worth 1 million tons. In terms of wind power, KEPCO is constructing or operating wind power facilities with a capacity of 1,315KW in Gansusheng, Inner Mongolia and Liaoning in China. In 2013, the company won the 90MW Fujeij wind power construction and operation project, the first wind power plant in Jordan, by the Ministry of Energy and Mineral Resources of Jordan. The Jordanian wind project is the fifth contract awarded in the Middle East, which solidified KEPCO’s stance as the second independent power producer in Jordan. In the future, KEPCO will diversify its renewable energy portfolio into photovoltaic and geothermal energy, develop and deploy CCS technology on a commercial scale, and enter into hydropower development in Central and South America and Southeast Asia. Mineral resources development Amid the projected depletion of fossil fuel and increasing fluctuations in raw material prices, KEPCO needs to stably procure generation fuel while curbing electricity tariff hikes caused by fuel price increases. Against this backdrop, KEPCO is undertaking overseas resources development projects. For bituminous coal, as of the end of 2012, KEPCO is operating five projects including the Bylong mine in Australia, which will provide the company with an off-take of 20.46 million tons of coal by 2020. At the same time, KEPCO seeks profits from dividends and sales commission through the equity purchase of coal mining companies, and tries to identify future business opportunities with investment partners. For uranium, KEPCO is implementing six projects including equity investment in Denison, Canada, with an off-take of 1,115 tons as of 2020. The practical knowledge earned from developing and operating the Bylong mine will lay the foundation for KEPCO to invest in mines for direct operation, and the optimization of the company’s portfolio by development stage, such as exploration, development, and production, as well as by geographical region, will enable KEPCO to have a stable supply of natural resources. At the same time, the company plans to enter the into trading business in order to overcome geographical limitations and maximize the value of mineral resources, two areas of future concern which have already developed. 35 Issue 2 Global Growth Local staff overseas KEPCO employs local people in the countries in which it has business activities, a practice which creates quality jobs and contributes to the country’s economic value. As of 2012, KEPCO’s local staff overseas totals 236 employees in the Philippines, Jordan and Mexico, with over 40% of senior managers being local employees. KEPCO strives to maintain fairness in salary level and promotion opportunities between local and Korean employees, and faithfully assumes our social responsibility in human rights protections considering local laws and regulations. ∷ Salary and the proportion of senior managers ∷ ∷ Local employees in overseas offices (unit: people) ∷ Classification Nation 2010 2011 2012 Classification 2010 2011 2012 Legal minimum Philippines 24/32 24/34 25/34 Philippines 314 188 186 wage/ Starting salary Jordan 26/163 30/163 30/163 Jordan 11 9 7 (KRW10,000, month) Mexico 16/108 16/108 Mexico 15 43 Philippines 50.0 51.1 51.7 Proportion of Philippines (October 2011), the number of Filipino employees local senior Jordan 11 41.6 50.0 decreased. managers (%) Mexico 41.6 53.5 SPECIAl FEATuRE KEILCO is responsible for operating the 1200MW gasgeneration capacity. Befitting the plant’s large KEILCO undertakes scale, its electricity sales stand at US$1.156 fired combined-cycle power plant, the second overseas KEPCO’s overseas power project for KEPCO following the first Malaya project in billion per year. As of the end of 2012, the project the Philippines. plant’s aggregate sales were US$1.34 billion Ilijan power plant is the second largest station in the and aggregate net profit amounted to US$573 country, accounting for about 10% of the nation’s total million. These figures represent the valuable achievement made by 13 KEPCO and about 130 Filipino employees. The secret of high profitability at KEILCO is the trust it garners from Filipino consumers for its high quality electricity. With only 1.16 days of annual unplanned outages recorded last year, KEILCO provides a stable electric supply in Luzon, an area where the power supply is normally precarious. ▲Ilijan power plant ▲IKEILCO Ilijan power plant staff Issue 03 Future Growth Engine R&D investment 6 strategic 640 187.8 billion won technologies intellectual property rights Highest level globally in CO2 Successfully implemented five pilot Developed a smart distribution operation emissions reduction technology Smart Grid projects in Jeju system, which is an international standard What we’ve done KEPCO is focusing its energy on R&D for 15 strategic WHAT technologies in order to become a globally recognized company and to create future growth engines. KEPCO is working to turn developed technologies into HOW commercial projects. These include clean energy development, high-efficiency smart grid technology and value-added generation technology. KEPCO is aggressively investing in technology development in WHY order to overcome limited growth in domestic demand and fierce competition in the global market. 37 Issue 3 Future Growth Engine Development of green & smart technology KEPCO selected 15 technologies in 3 groups – clean energy technology, and high-efficiency SG technology and value187.8 billion won added generation technology – in an effort to strengthen its competitiveness in winning and executing overseas in R&D investment power projects. Major strategic technologies include offshore wind power, carbon capture and storage (CCS), HVDC, 351 applications smart grid, and energy storage system (ESS). We will work hard to develop these strategic technologies and concrete commercialization strategies with the ultimate objective of creating new growth engines. for industrial property rights 289 papers published ∷ 15 contents in 3 technology groups ∷ GROUP High value-added Clean energy High efficiency generation Share in R&D technology SG technology technology PRIORITY Export projects (short-term) Wind power IGCC-SNG Micro-Grid HVDC ROMM Smart Plant 40% New business Photovoltaic energy creation (mid-term) Bio & geothermal energy Smart Grid ESS Resources development 20% Future market (long-term) CCS Superconductivity Desalinization of sea water 10% Stronger operation projects (operation) Enhanced efficiency and facility improvement to secure KEPCO’s own value proposition 30% KEPCO’s annual R&D investment strategy involves the development of low carbon, green technology for the creation of future growth engines, and the enhancement of technology competitiveness of power facilities and operational efficiency of power system, which is attained by prompt development of core technology. In 2012, KEPCO invested 187.8 billion won, or 6.4% of net sales, in R&D for developing strategic technologies and operation technology customized to specific business areas and for expanding the company’s research infrastructure. KEPCO published approximately 289 papers in Korean and international journals, while about 351 cases of industrial property rights were applied for in the company’s name. KEPCO also established an open innovation system to strengthen its technology-centered management system and developed human resources necessary to create growth engines with the help of educational institutions at home and abroad and KEPCO’s in-house HRD center. 15 technologies in three technology groups were selected by the company: clean energy, high-efficiency smart grid and value-added power generation technology. This strategic identification of key technologies will strengthen KEPCO’s competitiveness and competency in winning and carrying out power projects abroad. Strategically important technology includes offshore wind power generation, carbon capture and storage, high voltage direct current, and smart grid and energy storage systems. KEPCO is committed to securing a fast track for the development of these core technologies and making a technology-based business strategy with the ultimate aim of creating new growth engines. Issue Reporting & Performance KEPCO Sustainability Report 2013 38 ∷ Major green technology development in 2012 ∷ Category Main achievement Awarded the President’s Developed KEP-CO2P2, CO2 absorbent, and attained a reduction level Commendation of over 85% (June) for Green Technology CCS Won the President’s Commendation at the fourth National Green (November 2012) (Carbon Capture Technology Awards and Storage) Awarded power generation plant the 10 Green Energy Operated a 0.7MW pilot plant (March) and completed 100MWe basic Technology Award design (September) by the Ministry of Knowledge Economy (June 2012) Succeeded in technology verification of five projects at the Jeju Smart Grid testbed Smart Grid Completed international standard 5 smart grid Awarded the 10 Green Energy Technology Award by the Ministry of demonstration projects Knowledge Economy (June) at the Jeju testbed (May 2013) Successfully operating distribution-level (22.9kV) commercial lines from August 2011 Superconductivity Manufactured direct current 80kV and alternating current 154kV cables and developed evaluation technology HVDC (direct (December) current power transmission) Mr. Wi Young-ho, senior researcher at KEPCO Pressure from the global community to reduce CO2 emissions is growing. What are some technological solutions which will enable the electric power industry to respond to this? Technological responses include increase in energy efficiency, wider use of renewable and nuclear energy, and carbon capture and storage (CCS). The surest solution to cut CO2 emissions in the power generation stage would be CCS technology. How would you evaluate KEPCO’s CCS technology? KEPCO’s CCS is one of the world’s best. Its post-combustion carbon capture with wet scrubbing is being deployed at the Boryong thermal power plant on a 10MW pilot facility, the largest in Korea. KEPCO is building a 10MW pilot plant, the world’s first and largest, at the Hwadong thermal power plant to enable environment-friendly and innovative dry scrubbing carbon capture. How would you describe your mission as a KEPCO researcher to build a world using “clean, smart, sustainable” energy? I feel a sense of responsibility, burden and pride at the same time. I try to overcome the burden of wondering, “Can I really do that well?” with the sense of responsibility that “I must do it,” at which time I assume the responsibility with pride that we can create the clean energy world we dream about. 39 Issue 3 Future Growth Engine Smart Grid Smart grid refers to a next generation power grid that integrates power technology and information technology to make the power grid more intelligent and advanced, and provides high-quality electric power service and maximize the efficiency of energy use. KEPCO focuses on smart grid project to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and expand the use of renewable energy to combat global warming, and increase stability in power supply and energy efficiency. In accordance with the national roadmap for smart grids announced in January 2010, KEPCO carried out technology testing in Jeju testbed from December 2009 to May 2013, and based on the outcome of the test, we will participate in smart grid expansion project and contribute to creating the first ever nationwide smart grid by 2030. In Jeju testbed, we installed smart meters, intelligent transmission and distribution system, digital substations and electric vehicle infrastructure, and tested the integrated operation of intelligent power grid, real-time tariff, demand response, energy management system, power facility monitoring and automatic recovery and an electric vehicle charging and payment system. As a result, we developed technology and a commercialization model for peak load shedding, load balancing, reduction in power line loss and outage duration and system integration with renewable energy sources. By 2020, Advanced Metering Infrastructure (AMI), or smart meters, will be installed in 22 million households, and the AMI operation system will provide services to allow customers to have an efficient energy use. The establishment of energy storage system will disperse peak loads and help use energy efficiently. We will continue developing products and services for sustainable energy consumption including EV charging infrastructure, and contribute to building the national smart grid. KEPCO will continue to play a leading role in building the national smart grid and promote mutual growth of large and small companies in this area, with the ultimate aim of contributing to the development of the national economy. Present Future Northeast Asian Super Grid KEPCO is preparing for a midand long-term global super grid project to develop power resources within the Northeast Asia region, create mutual benefits by utilizing differences in electricity prices and peak time, and identify new growth engines by exporting electric power. It is a large-scale project involving Russia, China and Japan, as well as Korea, and is expected to enhance the operational efficiency, promote the development of power sources such as gas and hydroelectric power, and develop renewable energy including wind and photovoltaic power. In 2012, KEPCO started a government-led project to analyze the feasibility of a Korea-Russia super grid, which will continue until September 2014. Regarding a Korea-Japan super grid, KEPCO signed a cooperation agreement with a power research institutions and will continue evaluating the project until January 2014. These efforts will give birth to a business strategy for Northeast Asian super grid project by 2014. Issue 04 Eco-friendly Value for the Community Investment in environment Underground distribution network ISO14001 & 2,194.7 billion won 15.1 % CTS certification Adopted the green Expanded eco-friendly Cut peak load by 3 million kW management system power facilities using demand response What we’ve done KEPCO places importance on protecting the environment WHAT throughout the entire supply chain from power generation to transmission and consumption. KEPCO is developing and attempting to apply a variety of technology HOW to reduce carbon emissions in power generation, reduce loss in transportation, and increase efficiency in consumption. KEPCO assumes its full social responsibilities on a basis of WHY “green” management and is working with the government on a GHG and energy emissions target management system. 41 Issue 4 Eco-friendly Value for the Community Integrated Green Environment Management System In 2007, KEPCO established the Midto Long-term Environmental Management Master Plan to conduct environmental management in a more systematic way in pursuit of sustainable development. The midto long-term goal of our environmental management is to enhance environmental management capacity to be included global top 5. To this end, we have prepared strategies and action plans in four areas according to the master plan. In October 2013, we adopted the green management system which is an upgraded version of the master plan. We also rolled out the master plan and will enhance our environment management a step further by getting feedback on the implementation of the plan. ∷ Green management policy ∷ ∷ Integrated green environment management system ∷ Environmental vision Global Energy Group Leading the Creation of Environmental Value Goal ECO GLOBAL TOP 5 Reinforce the Integrated Improve Capacity to Strengthen External Respond Proactively to Strategies Environmental Respond to Partnerships Climate Change Management System Environmental Risks Action plans Action items 11 items in 3 areas 8 items in 4 areas 7 items in 4 areas 7 items in 3 areas ∷ Integrated environment management roadmap ∷ 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Lay the foundation for Establish the Introduce the green Operate a green Green management low-carbon green environmental management system management system system certification growth management system 2 Certification for the environmental management system KEPCO obtained ISO14001, the certification for environmental management, for its five sites in 2007, and for all sites in 2008. In 2010, the company also received certification for nuclear power plant construction and operation management. In order to bolster environmental management, KEPCO prepared for the enterprise certification for green management systems in 2012 and plans to obtain certification in 2013. Green management system is a Korean system which adds resources and energy, GHG emission control and environmental social responsibility to the conventional environmental management system. KEPCO will take the lead in green management by constantly upgrading its environmental management system. Issue Reporting & Performance KEPCO Sustainability Report 2013 42 Eco-friendly Power Value Chain Integrated green environmental Encourage management system eco-friendly Build and operate power facilities management to that respect local communities KEPCO group companies Enhance environment efficiency Generation Ensure objectivity and transparency of facility site selection Expansion of Expand eco-friendly power facilities eco-friendly that respect local communities facilities Use GHG-free power facilities and prevent global warming Stronger Reduce T&D loss rates management Transmission of facility Control electromagnetic field and operation protect the ecosystem Reasonable management of Efficient management of peak loads electricity Enhance the efficiency of electricity use demand Sales 43 Issue 4 Eco-friendly Value for the Community Generation KEPCO and its power generation subsidiaries strive to build an organic cooperation system in generation, transmission, distribution and sales toward an eco-friendly supply chain for electricity. Environmental investments and costs KEPCO’s six generation companies have all obtained ISO14001 certification, while three of them obtained KSI 7001 (green management system) in 2011. Overall environmental investments and costs of the generation companies totalled KRW 537.7 billion in 2012. ∷ Thermal efficiency of power plants (%) ∷ ∷ GENCOs environment investment and expenses in 2012 ∷ (unit: 100 million won) 40.6 1,507 1,470 39.5 39.5 922 706 659 38.2 113 1995 1998 2001 2012 KHNP KOSEP KOMIPO WP KOSPO EWP ∷ CO2 emissions (kg/MWh) ∷ Construction and operation of power generation facilities in a way which “respects” local communities 472 474 463 464 KEPCO’s GenCos conduct environmental impact assessments with regard to the impact of construction and expansion of their power plants on the natural environment and traffic. The post environmental impact assessments are carried out for five years after the completion of the project, with the result being reported to the government on a yearly basis. 2009 2010 2011 2012 Enhanced environmental efficiency The GenCos have expanded the use of clean energy sources and operating systems such as desulfurization, denitrification and dust collection, to reduce SOx, NOx and dust emitted from the power generation process. GenCos also operate comprehensive waste water treatment facilities to physically and chemically treat waste water for reuse or discharge, while desulfurized gypsum generated from coal-fired power plants is reused for cement production. The chemical oxygen demand(COD) and suspended solids(SS) emissions by GenCos are 0.940(g/MWh), 0.296(g/MWh) respectively in 2012. The GenCos focus on minimizing the amount of the emissions in accordance with the law about Preservation of Water Quality and Aquatic Ecosystem. ∷ Pollutant emission trend ∷ Category 2010 2011 2012 SOx (g/MWh) 159 148 186 NOx (g/MWh) 295 284 297 Dust (g/MWh) 8 8 8 Issue Reporting & Performance KEPCO Sustainability Report 2013 44 Transmission To guarantee a stable power supply, KEPCO constructs transmission and distribution facilities in a timely manner and ∷ Underground transmission lines in cities (%) ∷ operates them efficiently. The company strives to maintain eco-friendly power transmission by ensuring objectivity and transparency in site selection, expanding eco-friendly facilities that respect local communities, reducing T&D loss rates, 97.5 97.9 97.4 protecting the ecosystem and controlling electromagnetic fields. Objective and transparent site selection In order to increase objectivity and transparency in regard to site selection, KEPCO applies sophisticated scientific 2010 2011 2012 techniques. In January 2009, a site selection system based on community participation was expanded to include all construction projects. The Site Selection Committee composed of local residents, local government, local council and experts select a site, which ensures objectivity and transparency. In addition, from 2008, town hall meetings at which presentations are given to residents should be held not only for projects subject to environmental impact assessment, ∷ Underground distribution facilities(%) ∷ but all projects. KEPCO launched an Open House system in September 2010 where additional meetings are held and 15.1 presentations given to residents who did not attend the first meeting. 14.3 14.7 Eco-friendly construction of power facilities KEPCO is expanding the construction of eco-friendly power facilities for minimum interference with the environment 2010 2011 2012 and developing environmentally friendly materials, equipment and construction methods. We use more aesthetically pleasing tubular steel poles and applied spacers, as well as semi-underground engineering which requires minimum space and improves the overall environment. In order to prevent GHG emissions, KEPCO has also developed and applied epoxy mold insulated switches to replace the existing SF6 gas. KEPCO has promoted the revision of laws and regulations on the installation of power facilities so that the depth for underground tunnels is reduced to minimize the time required for excavation. Furthermore, ensuring space for ground facilities within buildings became required by law in an effort to minimize inconvenience of pedestrians caused by obstruction of ground equipment installed on the street. The company has also laid the foundation for beautifying the urban landscape by requiring overhead communication lines to be buried along with distribution lines by law. T&D loss reduction Through the application of load balancing operations on intelligent distribution systems, the development and use of high efficiency equipment including low loss cables and transformers, and loss reduction achieved by enlarging the capacity of T&D lines, T&D loss rates decreased to 3.57% in 2012, one of the lowest rates in the world. KEPCO will maintain the lowest loss rate to curb the additional construction of facilities and indirectly contribute to GHG emission reduction endeavors. ∷ T&D loss rates ∷ 11.40% 6.69% 5.46% 4.50% 3.99% 3.69% 3.57% 1971 1981 1991 2001 2010 2011 2012 Electromagnetic fields and ecosystem Electromagnetic fields (EMF) generated from power facilities have an extremely low frequency of 60Hz, which do not flow far, while the strength of these fields fades rapidly as the distance grows. For the safe operation of its power facilities, KEPCO operates its power facilities within 1/6 of national EMF standards. The company also operates an informative website on EMF (www.emfsafe.kr) and an experience center in an effort to alleviate groundless concerns and conflicts about the safety of EMF. We provide an EMF measurement service, carry out research projects to scientifically manage EMF and pool different opinions from various channels. The total area of power facilities in ecosystem protection zones is 48 ㎢ and we do not construct new transmission lines in preservation areas to protect biodiversity. 45 Issue 4 Eco-friendly Value for the Community Sales ∷ Types of demand side management ∷ KEPCO is committed to demand-side management (DSM) and the stable supply of electric power, and has thus enhanced the efficiency of its equipment, which contributes to the nation’s energy conservation policies. In 2012, KEPCO implemented proactive DSM measures amid an unprecedented power shortage and reduced 3 million Kw of peak load, enabling the company to supply electric power without any outages. A new DSM program was also adopted and improved, which secured 3.99 million Kw in load (equivalent to four nuclear power plant units). Efficient management of peak demand The number of DSM days in 2012 was 80, up 122% compared to the previous year. The 3,189 person-strong DSM staff assumed the responsibility of operating the customer energy saving mechanism to encourage participating customers to practice energy saving measures. In regard to daily supply shortages, the mid-day notice system helped enhance KEPCO’s capability to respond to emergency supply shortages. The company also adopted a critical peak price (CPP) on a pilot basis to secure demand responsive loads through price signals. ∷ Demand management in 2012 ∷ Before DSM After DSM Category Supply capacity DSM (unit: 10,000kw) Peak load Reserves Peak load Reserves Winter season 7,951 7,725 226(2.9%) 342 7,383 568(7.7%) (February 2) Summer season 7,708 7,694 14(0.2%) 265 7,429 279(3.8%) (August 6) ∷ Potential rolling outage prevented with DSM ∷ Potential rolling outage prevented with DS 2,790,000kW 140,000kW DSM Before DSM After DSM ∷ Reductions by DSM mechanism ∷ Average daily Total reduction Category Details reduction (GWh) (10 thousand Kw)) Weekly Provide subsidies to customers who reduce electricity consumption 147 360.8 notice during the load control period as notified by KEPCO Provide subsidies to customers who reduce peak usage by going on Period vacation or postpone maintenance/repair of electricity facilities during 200 196.1 designation the summer peak period Install a load control system for customers who sign a contract with Direct load KEPCO and directly control the load of customer sites during critical 127 7.2 control power shortages. The customer receives a subsidy in return. Issue Reporting & Performance KEPCO Sustainability Report 2013 46 •Utilized a power supply capacity from private •Improved supply capacity with daily notice system generators (400,000kW saved per day on average) : In cases where demand forecast failed and a supply •Run emergency generators in public institutions shortage occurs for the day and a mandatory power cut (700,000kW) •Strengthened load clipping through emergency energy •Greater participation in energy saving systems for Stronger saving system demand response Strengthened designated periods or dailyl notice (2,830,000kW) : Penalties are imposed on violations to increase management supply system compliance •Appointed personnel in charge of demand management (3,189 persons) Peak clipping efforts in 2012 Expended cooling demand management Public energy •Campaigns to encourage demand response •Cooling storage system and peak load management and technology saving campaign management and enhance awareness devices (54,000kW) development : Demand management award and stronger public •Remote control system of building heating/cooling energy saving campaign devices (20,000kW) •MOU on subtitle broadcasting with terrestrial •Inverter freezers (17,000kW) broadcasting systems and mock trainings (4 times) Higher electricity use efficiency As part of national efforts to achieve low-carbon green growth, KEPCO has expanded the use of new high-efficiency equipment such as LED lighting. In 2010, the company started to install LED lighting and LED emergency lighting, and worked on the development of new programs such as an intelligent lighting auto-control system. KEPCO has also strengthened its target marketing to integrate eco-friendly high-efficiency devices in design from the early stage of construction by establishing closer relationships with public institutions. The wider use of such high-efficiency devices reduced power consumption as much as 378,613MWh and CO2 emissions by 160,529 tons. KEPCO will continue to implement dynamic load management linked with the reserves level and build a web-based demand-side management system. We will also encourage the wider use of high-efficiency devices to boost electricity use efficiency. ∷ Support for low-income families with high-efficiency LED lighting (2012) ∷ Low income Traditional Category Poultry farms LED signs Total families markets Number of lights 79,083 112,410 61,177 7,425 250,095 CO2 reductions (ton/year) 3,551 13,247 6,044 11,081 33,923 Savings on electricity bills (100 million won/year) 9.0 11.7 10.9 20.0 51.6 KEPCO will operate a load management system flexibly in link with reserve level and lay the foundation for web-based constant demand management system. Also, we will distribute more eco-friendly high-efficiency devices to enhance the efficiency of power facilities. ∷ High-efficiency LED lights in office buildings ∷ 23,175 41,931 12,944 23,175 1,275 9,551 8,102 0% 854 739 55.3% 13% 30.7% 1% Fluorescent Incandescent ~2009 2010 2011 2012 Total light Others LED Halogen light 47 Issue 4 Eco-friendly Value for the Community SPECIAl FEATuRE Energy saving activities at Dongkuk Steel time in Korea lights On March 27, 2013, KEPCO awarded appreciation plaques to 10 customers who contributed to a stable power supply. One of them, Dongkuk Steel, actively participated in KEPCO’s energy saving program by adopting a 30% energy saving electric furnace for the first time in Korea. We met Mr. Lee Hee-kyun who leads the demand management team. Energy conservation is a life or death issue Energy conservation is a life or death issue, not Dongkuk Steel, a major contributor to the stable supply of power only for the company to survive, but for everyone to coexist. Based on this know-how, we will continue carrying out demand side management, contributing to the power supply.” We saw an artisan spirit in the production of premium steel, which is the basis of the company’s energy saving efforts. Enhancing environmental efficiency In 2012, KEPCO implemented strong energy saving measures in response to the government’s energy consumption reduction policy. To encourage an energy saving mindset among employees, KEPCO designated a period in summer and winter during which the entire company goes on an energy diet. The company carried out an intensive PR effort for energy saving, encouraged an eco-lifestyle including such measures as complying with room temperature guideline, and laid the foundation for systematic and efficient energy consumption by coming up with improvement measures through energy diagnosis and installing energy saving equipment. KEPCO plans to replace 64% of lighting with highly efficient LED lights by 2013. Incandescent and halogen lights were replaced in 2011; fluorescent lights installed in most offices are being replaced with LED lighting based on a yearly plan. ∷ 2012 energy saving drive ∷ 5 5 Energy saving campaign Cut in energy use in KEPCO office buildings 氣 Office temperature regulation Wear long underwear & Turn off lights Use the staircase Pull the plugs out 1,691,000 kWh “Cool-Biz” Below 18℃ Over 28℃ New dress code ▼ 8.3% Issue Reporting & Performance KEPCO Sustainability Report 2013 48 Environmental Costs Environmental expense calculation 7.64% 2.55% In accordance with KEPCO’s environment accounting system, environmental expenses in 2012 were 2,194.7 billion won, or 4.45% of total sales. This money has been invested in the construction of eco-friendly power facilities, reduction of 5.44% TYD loss, distribution of renewable energy facilities and environmental restoration. In future, KEPCO will strategically employ an environmental accounting system to disclose management decisions and environmental expenses to stakeholders in a prompt manner and raise environmental value. 84.37% Reduced use of energy and water In 2012, KEPCO made intensive efforts to cut electricity consumption in order to fulfill the targets as set out under Stakeholder activities / 1,851.4 billion won GHG, energy control system and winter/summer seasonal power supply and demand programs implemented by the Follow-up measures / 55.2 billion won government. KEPCO used 26,520 TOE of energy and 1,616,000 tons of water. By utilizing high-efficiency equipment and Compliance with regulations and other activities / increasing efficiency of facilities, KEPCO’s average energy consumption went down by 422,000 TOE between 2009 and 120.1 billion won 2011. Water usage was reduced by 1,408,000 tons during the same period. This was discharged into the sewage system Prevention / 168 billion won with no water recycled. ∷ 2012 energy and water saving measures ∷ System Infrastructure building headquarters building being built in Naju. ∷ Energy use(TOE) ∷ ∷ Degree of energy intensity (TOE/trillion won) ∷ ∷ Water consumption (1,000 tons) ∷ 29,957 3,465 29,265 2,908 26,520 764.21 1,616 672.76 536.84 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 ▲ Energy intensity = Energy consumption÷sales Eco-friendly company vehicles ∷ Eco-friendly company car rate ∷ KEPCO is committed to reducing pollution from company The proportion of Year 2010 2011 2012 eco-Friendly cars vehicles. In 2012, KEPCO owned 3,174 company vehicles, an 8-vehicle increase from the previous year. Of these, Company vehicles 1,738 1,753 1,811 80.7% 1,811 are passenger cars, of which 80.7%, or 1,462, are Eco-friendly cars in total 1,422 1,437 1,462 compact or hybrid cars. At least 80% of newly purchased Compact cars 1,362 1,377 1,402 cars will be compact or hybrid cars. Fuel consumption Hybrid cars 60 60 60 for company cars in 2012 was 6,399,000 liters with a fuel efficiency of 7.44 km/L. The proportion of 81.8 81.9 80.7 eco-friendly cars (%) 49 Issue 4 Eco-friendly Value for the Community Facilitating recycling Cost Reduction of To proactively respond to domestic and overseas environmental regulations and to fulfill its corporate social 1.3 billion won by recycling waste responsibility for environment protection by reducing waste and preventing pollution, KEPCO has been committed to resource recycling. Waste generated in 2012 totaled 56,858 tons, 1% less than the 2011 level. By recycling waste, KEPCO saved 13.1 billion won. The company will continue to identify recyclable resources and promptly reuse equipment that can be repaired and renovated in order to save resources and cut costs. ∷ Total materials used ∷ ∷ Waste generated and recycled by type (2012) ∷ Material Generated Recycled 2010 2011 2012 Material Recycle (%) (ton) (ton) (ton) Concrete 432,196 417,324 464,161 Concrete 92,060 92,060 100 Metal 62,907 54,147 56,846 Metal 32,985 32,985 100 Earthenware 1,816 2,130 2,069 Earthenware 7,350 7,350 100 Electric cable 30,811 25,983 27,594 Electric cable 21,992 21,992 100 Others 8,804 4,999 4,529 Others 1,881 1,881 100 Total 536,534 504,583 555,199 Total 156,268 156,268 100 Purchasing green products In 2012, KEPCO purchased green products worth 7.5 billion won, equivalent to 96.3% of total consumable supplies. The The proportion of company plans to use more eco-friendly products by sharing related information within the company and giving extra green product purchases points to certified green products when evaluating products for procurement . 94.2 % ∷ Green product purchases (KRW million, %) ∷ 2010 2011 2012 Total Green Total Green Total Green Rate (%) Rate (%) Rate (%) purchase products purchase products purchase products 7,856,241 7,203,788 91.70 8,078,445 7,365,203 91.17 7,058,782 7,496,144 94.2 Control of PCBs In response to the National Implementation Plan under the Stockholm Convention, KEPCO operates a systematic control system to eradicate polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) completely. Transformers which are no longer used are rigorously controlled in accordance with PCBs manual, and those containing over 2ppm of PCBs are handled by a professional company. Until 2012, the total number of transformers handled was 192,812. KEPCO plans to manage PCBs safely throughout the process of transformer removal, storage, analysis, and disposal, and develop new engineering techniques for economic and stable PCB disposal. Control of SF6 In order to prevent global warning caused by greenhouse gas emissions, KEPCO operates a recovery and recycling system for SF6, a gas used to insulate power facilities. The company has developed and applied a high-efficiency SF6 recovery system from 2009, and the SF6 recovery level was strengthened to 99% when equipment is removed and 97% when equipment is under regular check. As a result, the SF6 recovery rate, which used to be around 80%, was raised to 97% in 2011. KEPCO remains committed to reducing SF6 emissions by strict management and strengthened worker education. Issue 05 Carbon Emissions Reduction CDM profits GHG emissions reduction RPS implementation costs 23.2 billion won 49% (compared to the average emissions in 2007-2009) 515.5 billion won Established the KEPCO Group Built the Carbon Asset Worked to formulate a GHG GHG management system Management System reductions master plan What we’ve done KEPCO is contributing to sustainable national development WHAT by taking the lead in the government’s green initiatives while curbing climate change as a public institution in the energy sector. KEPCO is reinforcing its carbon management system at HOW the enterprise level and focusing its energy on technology development to cut carbon emissions in all steps from power generation to consumption. KEPCO has joined in efforts to protect the environment by WHY initiating carbon emissions reduction as a company in the energy sector, a major contributor to GHG emissions. 51 Issue 5 Carbon Emissions Reduction Joint response of the KEPCO Group toward climate change Change the Stronger request Opportunities Higher composition to expand to create new generation of generation renewable markets costs fuels energy Responding as one group Affecting the power industry Establish responsive Formulate Develop Develop low mechanism under GHG reduction renewable carbon energy the Convention on implementaenergy system Climate Change tion plan technology | Korea Hydro & Nuclear Power Co., Ltd. | Korea South-East Power Co., Ltd | Korea Midland Power Co., Ltd. | | Korea Western Power Co., Ltd. | Korea Southern Power Co., Ltd. | Korea East-West Power Co., Ltd. | Technology Working-Level and Technology Group on Climate and Climate & Change Climate Change Exchange climate Environment Collaboration Collaboration Comprehensive change information Change Committee Committee renewable energy realignment Chairman: KEPCO CTO Members: Executives of 6 GENCOs Secure Carbon Credits Expand R&D Activities Create New Growth Engines through Proactive Response to Climate Change 2 Strengthen Efforts to Build Response Reduce GHG Emissions Infrastructure Korea is a non-Annex 1 country when the Kyoto Protocol took effect in February 2005, but Korea voluntarily set the goal of reducing GHG emissions by 30% of the expected GHG emissions by 2020. To achieve this, we are running a GHG emissions target monitoring system from 2012. As the power industry is a heavy GHG emitter, KEPCO will be affected by climate change mechanisms including the emissions trading to be implemented from 2015. KEPCO and GENCOs foresee climate change issue as both a crisis and opportunity and come up with effective measures. In an effort to proactively protect the environment and respond to the changes in energy paradigm, KEPCO and GENCOs expanded the Climate Change Cooperation Committee to the Technology and Climate Change Cooperation Committee in June 2008. The CTO of KEPCO chairs the Committee with GENCO executives participating as members; under the Committee are two working-level consultative bodies for stronger implementation: climate and environment change consultative meeting and renewable energy consultative meeting. The renewable portfolio standard (RPS) is a system that makes it mandatory for private generation companies with an installed capacity of over 500MW to generate electricity with renewable energy. RPS went into effect in 2012, and this year’s mandatory RPS rate is 2.5% with implementation costs of about 515.5 billion won. The rate is expected to go up to 5% by 2017 and 10% by 2022. Issue Reporting & Performance KEPCO Sustainability Report 2013 52 ∷ Joint efforts of the KEPCO Group in a response toward climate change ∷ Joint Response Future and improvement of transmission and distribution facilities Plans CER trading Accumulated GHG KEPCO is implementing domestic and overseas clean development mechanism (CDM) projects in order to play an active emission reductions role in facilitating the global carbon market and securing certified emissions reductions (CERs). KEPCO earned 2 million until 2012 tons of CERs in 2012 from wind power projects in China with profits totaling 14.3 billion won. In Korea, the company 2.65million ton carried out the first phase (from October 2011 to April 2012) of a CDM reduction project for the distribution SF6 gas reduction started in February 2011 whose performance is being verified by an Designated Operational Entity. Amid a slowdown in the EU CER market affected by the global financial crisis, KEPCO is bracing against management risks following CER price reductions by selecting and implementing in phases domestic and overseas CDM projects. We plan to analyze the financial impact from the global carbon market and build a Carbon Asset Management System designed to systematically manage carbon costs. ∷ Overview on CDM ∷ Annex I countries (developed countries) carry out GHG reduction projects by investing in renewable energy development in non-Annex I countries (developing countries). Reductions CER Reductions Previous reductions Investment Emissions Emissions & technology before CDM after CDM support Non-Annex I (developing) Annex I (developed) countries countries Receive technological and financial Achieve reduction targets by support from developed countries combining emissions reductions reduce GHG emissions under the Kyoto Protocol 53 Issue 5 Carbon Emissions Reduction ∷ Carbon Footprint Label ∷ Efforts to lower GHG emissions Anticipating the launch of GHG and energy target monitoring system and CER trading system (2015), KEPCO established hange voluntary reduction plan with 2020 KEPCO GHG Reduction Master Plan. Carbon Asset Management System and tec global carbon management certificate will strengthen carbon management of the company. Our development and setoclima pon application of GHG lowering technology will help us proactively work on changes in management environment from climate change. Res GHG emissions management KEPCO emitted 1,308 thousand tons of GHG in 2012, a 49% reduction in average emissions from 2007–2009. This GHG emissions reduction of reduction was made by the adoption of high-efficiency recovery technology for SF6, which is responsible for 76% of 49% (from the 2007~2009 total GHG emissions, in 2011. The technology minimized emissions and increased the recycle rate. average) 1 Carbon management system 2 Stronger GHG control Build an eco-friendly power supply process with systematic GHG emissions reduction and monitoring Midand long-term carbon management strategies Low Carbon System Set the vision and goals for carbon management Formulate the strategy for 2013-2020 by phase 2020 master Government Preemptive plan for CO2 target response to reduction monitoring CER trading Carbon Asset Management System 2020 mid-term goal SF6 emissions Group joint Manage CER and GHG emissions and scenarios reduction and response, by step energy saving benchmarking BP Monitor CDM business and GHG emissions 2 projects including an offshore wind 2013 GHG emissions reduction project off of Korea’s southwestern target: 380,000 tons coast registered with the UN CDM Performance analysis and global promotion 2.59 million tons (bases) 26 Attained global certification CTS by Carbon Targeting a 24 Trust in UK 380,000 ton Published a report disclosing carbon management (15%) cut 8%↑ 2013 2012 2013 cumulative cumulative ∷ Degree of GHG emissions intensity(1,000 ∷ GHG emissions trend ∷ tons CO2-eq/trillion won)∷ (Unit: 1,000 tons CO2-eq) 2,953 2,796 51.96 2,176 2,037 1,308 28.74 1,250 26.48 2010 2011 2012 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 ▲ GHG emission intensity = GHG emission÷sales Issue Reporting & Performance KEPCO Sustainability Report 2013 54 From a midand long-term perspective, KEPCO has developed and expanded the use of switches made of eco-friendly materials and will soon achieve an SF6-free environment. As the Act on the Allocation and Trading of Certified Emission Reductions passed the National Assembly in May 2012 and will take effect in 2015, KEPCO is working on the establishment of the Carbon Asset Management System (CAMS) for the comprehensive management of carbon assets including GHG and carbon credits through integration with the real-time GHG emissions monitoring system. In May 2013, KEPCO obtained CTS, an energy and carbon management certificate granted by Carbon Trust of the UK government. The company also participated in the Carbon Disclosure Project with the goal of making public its carbon management efforts and become a leader in carbon management. Mr. Seo Jung-il, Senior Manager at KEPCO KEPCO obtained CTS certification in August which account for 70% of total GHG emissions, 2013. Please explain in detail what this means. the company has adopted high efficiency recovery The global energy carbon trust standard (CTS) certificate and recycling technology. was developed and is issued by Carbon Trust, an international climate change consulting organization Keen interest has been expressed in established in the United Kingdom in 2011, to certify KEPCO’s global leadership role in curbing reductions in greenhouse gas emissions. The CTS GHG emissions. Please describe the big certificate and its authority is globally recognized. About picture and direction KEPCO must take to 900 companies around the world including 5 Korean reduce emissions. companies including Samsung Electronics have obtained KEPCO has set a voluntary goal to cut GHG the CTS. This certification demonstrates that KEPCO’s emissions by 40% (from the 2007-2009 level) by carbon management meets global standards. 2020. To this end, we are actively implementing measures such as making a SF6-free environment What is the core of KEPCO’s climate change by expanding eco-friendly facilities, constructing strategies and GHG reduction efforts? office buildings that minimize energy use, and KEPCO established the 2020 GHG Reduction Master Plan creating a Carbon Free Island. KEPCO is also in preparation for the GHG target monitoring system striving to maximize the value of carbon assets and emission trading system. In order to minimize SF6 with our carbon asset management system. emissions from transmission and distribution facilities, Issue 06 Sharing and Mutual Prosperity Discounts for energy welfare 10,680 Purchase of SME products 245.6 billion won social contribution activities 4.2 trillion won Announced a new vision for socially Open sales channels overseas and Create jobs at social enterprises responsible management lower entry barriers for SMEs What we’ve done KEPCO shares sustainability values with stakeholders by enhance WHAT energy welfare for the socially marginalized and promoting co-development with SMEs. KEPCO makes public information on electric energy, provides HOW discounts for energy welfare, supports social enterprises and carries out co-prosperity project with SMEs. KEPCO believes that electric energy is public goods and people WHY regardless of income and class should have easy access to electricity and enjoy the benefits. Issue Reporting & Performance KEPCO Sustainability Report 2013 56 Social Contribution ∷ CSR management vision announcement Social contribution strategy and system (Oct. 2012) ∷ In order to fulfill corporate social responsibilities, 295 community service groups carried out voluntary services tailored to power business. We are also doing social contribution activities in the countries where we have business. In October 2010, we announced a new vision for CSR management for the first time as a public institution to show our commitment to becoming a global CSR leader who contributes to the happiness of the humanity and society. We will actively identify and carry out CSR programs customized to the recipients’ needs, those that create jobs and global CSR activities. New Vision Global leader in social contribution who contributes to the happiness of humans and society ∷ Social contribution system ∷ KEPCO-specific Job creation Community service groups social contributions activities Global volunteer group Social enterprise support group 119 Rescue Service Team Customized volunteer Global social activities contributions Social contribution activities KEPCO’s social contribution has been implemented in a sustained and systematic manner since 2004 when KEPCO community service groups were created. Love Fund Matching Grant Utilizing Love Fund, employees’ monthly contributions, and Matching Grant, KEPCO employees reach out to socially vulnerable people including multi-cultural families, North Korean defectors, elderly people living alone, sister communities, social welfare facilities and those recipients of the national basic living support, and we carry out volunteer works such as checkup and repair of old electricity facilities, meal service, wall papering, bathing, cleaning, conversation and mentoring. Support for children and youth By forming sisterly relationship with 287 community children’s centers nationwide, we had 2,261 rounds of volunteer activities, helping study and experiencing cultural events, and providing meals. Also, we had 1,409 mentoring sessions ∷ Eye Love Project ∷ with 721 children and teenagers from socially marginalized families and opened KEPCO Green School designed to let students realize the value of energy during vacations. 60 40 40 Eye Love Project As a company that generates light, KEPCO is involved in a project which gives light of hope. The Eye Love Project 10 supports eyesight recovery operations for low-income families. Between 2011 and 2012, KEPCO signed a support agreement with the Korean Foundation for the Prevention of Blindness and financially supported 150 blind people until 2011 2012 2011 2012 2012 and 100 in 2013. We plan to expand the project to give the light of hope to 100 people at home and abroad every year until 2021. In Korea Overseas 57 Issue 6 Sharing and Mutual Prosperity Ms. Kim Hyun-mi, KEPCO employee/119 Rescue Service Team member What was the motivation for you to join the can never forget all of these memories. Reaching KEPCO 119 Rescue Service Team? out to people in need of help and offering relief The precious experience I gained through volunteer and rescue activities is something I really enjoy activities during my college years has guided me to doing. this rescue service team, while the memories of those people I met while working on the team continue to It must be tough for KEPCO to execute serve as motivation for me. rescue activities for the first time as a public company. What is the sense of What are the most memorable experiences mission and devotion you have as a rescue you have had while working as a rescue service team member? member? In order to provide more help and aid by After a heavy snowfall, I had to clear snow which went combining the efforts of my colleagues, I will up to my waist with a shovel for the first time in my life. prepare myself through continued training and Other experiences include hearing the words of those education. This team goes to the sites assuming elderly people living alone, whose blood pressure I full responsibility with a sense of passion. Please checked and attached pain relief patches and who were keep a close eye on the activities of KEPCO’s 119 happy to see and talk to me. The moment when they Rescue Service Team. tightly held my hands with their deep wrinkled hands. I Support for children and youth By forming sisterly relationship with 287 community children’s centers nationwide, we had 2,261 rounds of volunteer activities, helping study and experiencing cultural events, and providing meals. Also, we had 1,409 mentoring sessions with 721 children and teenagers from socially marginalized families to support them in realizing their dream. Support for social enterprises KEPCO promotes value creation and co-prosperity by developing social enterprises. We signed the MOU on the tripartite social responsibility and selected 4 enterprises to whom a total of 380 million won of business startup support was ∷ Plan for social enterprise development ∷ provided. This effort effectively created jobs for the socially vulnerable. We implement Micro Credit Project, which collects a small portion of payment from employees to create a fund of 13enterprises 180 million won, which then was lent to 5 social enterprises in financial difficulty and 3 low income families without 10 security. In 2013, we plan to engage in pro bono activities and donate talent to help social enterprises continue their 7 growth. ∷ KEPCO’s support for social enterprises ∷ 2013 2014 2015 Financial support Business model ncubating Foundation for Customized to Technology/ establishment power business management advice A total solution of “establishment – incubating – sales channel development” helps social enterprises successfully start business. Employment Profits 1,500 1,000 60 billion 500 40 billion 200 20 billion 2012 2013 2014 2015 Issue Reporting & Performance KEPCO Sustainability Report 2013 58 SPECIAl FEATuRE KEPCO launched the Happiness Up social enterprise making) and 8 other cooperatives were selected. The Happiness Up Program support program with a fund of 380 million won KEPCO Hope Café Project is designed to support social that gives wings in 2012 to create jobs for socially vulnerable enterprises and social venture companies, and in a to social enterprises people. The program provided support to 4 social contest, Jari Inc. (for opening Café and creating jobs for enterprises: Bluenet (standby power control system youth from socially vulnerable families) was selected development, 200 million won), 1cmAD/Benefit and will open the first KEPCO Hope Café near Hongik (media content making on energy saving, 50 million University. The total support amounts to 500 million won), Communication Woodi (development of game won: 400 million won for 9 cooperatives and 100 application that promotes energy saving, 50 million million won for Hope Café. By cooperative company, won), Art and Community Network (Educational and each receives from 10 million to 50 million won. The experience programs development utilizing KEPCO selected projects will get professional education and Museum and Promotion Center, 80 million won). business consulting until the cooperatives are firmly KEPCO is carrying established. For a public corporation, KEPCO is the first out projects case to support the establishment and incubation of for identifying social enterprises, which expects to create about 60 cooperative business jobs and vitalize the local economy. model and creating Also, an MOU on one regional office having Hope Café in 2013. sponsorship with one social enterprise (14 enterprises) The Cooperative was signed to support the self-reliance and sustained Business Model growth of those enterprises. Hope Rainbow Project Identification with Micro Credit (the fund from a small portion of Project is designed the payment employees get) provided 180 million to give growth won to 5 social enterprises for business management momentum to social improvement. We also donated old office appliances. enterprises. In a KEPCO will continue to have innovative contribution contest, Cooperative activities, rather than one-time donations, to support Onli (environmentsocial enterprises to grow. friendly handicraft Mr. Park Myeong-hak, Director of Energy School Please briefly introduce Energy School. culture energy class will facilitate communication Energy School is a place where we have active about energy conservation and its value. communication about the social and cultural values of energy by going beyond passive energy conservation to What is the dream of Energy School? What experience and learn the various aspects of energy we do you think is the best way for KEPCO and are exposed to in our lives and through our culture. social enterprises to build shared value together? What are the most interesting activities and Energy School strives to create a life culture themes for participants? community using energy as a medium and Of all the Energy School courses, in which people from combining social and cultural values of energy 13 to over 70 years old participate, the highest level with the cultural imagination of humanity. We of satisfaction has been toward practical workshops believe that social enterprises like Energy School including the repair class which combines utilities and KEPCO can create future-oriented value by and imagination, as well as the course designed to identifying and supporting innovative ideas about strengthen the capacity for energy self-sufficiency. A life on-site needs. 59 Issue 6 Sharing and Mutual Prosperity Energy for everyone, “Greater Energy Welfare” KEPCO strives to expand energy welfare with a variety of support measures for low income households. Residential customers are suspended from the limited electricity supply measure during hot (July to September) and cold (December to February) days and guaranteed with minimum access to electricity by installing a current limiter even when they have not paid their bills and become subject to the suspension of electricity. We also give discounts for social welfare facilities and provide financial support to a group of selected low income families from those who have bills unpaid for at least three months under the Energy Sharing Program. ∷ Discounts for electricity bills ∷ (Unit: 10,000 households, 100 million won) No. of Category Beneficiaries 2010 2011 2012 households The disabled, veterans, patriots, low income Welfare discounts families, social welfare facilities, families 182 1,786 1,912 1,969 with at least three children Less progressive tariff Large families with at least 3 children, 42.8 963 808 487 for residential users customers on life support system Amount subsidized in 2012 Beneficiaries Discount type (100 million won) The disabled, veterans, recipients of Fixed amount (up to 8,000 won) 1,104 national basic livelihood support Welfare facilities, 20% of bill 865 families with at least 3 children Large families, Apply a grade lower tariff 487 customers on life support system KEPCO is committed to warm energy for everyone by expanding energy welfare policies in a more systematic way. Move to clean, efficient energy Better tariff and Better energy service greater welfare implemented with discounts for low income households systematic energy Upholding welfare policies the basic right to electricity Welfare discounts/subsidies Basic right to energy basic livelihood support in line with the rationalization communities, the recipients of basic livelihood support of tariff and social welfare facilities with nighttime heat pump boilers consumption 50 % Enhance energy efficiency Green energy activities season (November to March) (220W 660W) families, when the system is adopted Abolish the suspension of current limiter installations Issue Reporting & Performance KEPCO Sustainability Report 2013 60 SPECIAl FEATuRE Global social contribution With the expansion of KEPCO’s overseas business, the won for water service, road construction, school request for corporate social responsibilities is getting foundation and medical service. stronger in the countries such as the Philippines, In 2013, we are involved in volunteer service Jordan and Mexico where we are implementing power for an elementary school near our power plant projects. In those countries, we initiate a variety of where we improved the school roof and taught CSR activities and volunteer service such as eyesight art, music and traditional play. recovery surgery and scholarship programs. In partnership with Red Cross in Manila, we Providing volunteer service such as medical support and have financially supported eyesight recovery scholarship programs in Batangas, the Philippines operations since 2011 for children who are from Last February, a team of about 20 people including poor families and had difficulty learning. (3 KEPCO employees and doctors are providing volunteer children underwent the surgery and one is going medical support in Batangas, the Philippines, where we through the process.) operate the Ilijan power plant. We provided 1.57 billion ∷ Social contribution activities in the Philippines ∷ Category 2010 2011 2012 Medical service 13 sessions (8,596 people) 11 sessions (6,608 people) 6 sessions (1,875 people) Scholarship 66 occasions (12,888 people) 43 occasions (3,501 people) 18 occasions (1,292 people) Community support near power plants 285 sessions (affecting 28,872 people) 187 sessions (affecting 21,197 people) 153 sessions (affecting 16,524 people) ∷ Electrification in rural areas in the Philippines ∷ Category Performance On-grid method (extension) 484 projects completed (Jan 2011) Off-grid method (photovoltaic power generation) 270 projects completed (Jan 2011) Consulting for the distribution line construction for Zaatari Camp From July to September 2013, KEPCO carried out a on the ways to improve distribution facilities and project to improve distribution lines in a refugee camp stable operation. We also presented an effective in Jordan. At the request of the UNHCR, KEPCO sent business model and designed the tariff and a group of consultants to Zaatari Camp for Syrian metering system. refugees. Zaatari Camp is located 90km north of KEPCO will continue its global social contribution Amman, the capital of Jordan, where more than 120,000 in order to earn trust and respect from the local Syrian refugees who escaped from civil war stay. communities and become a public company that KEPCO employees met the manager of the camp and the fully assumes its social responsibilities. personnel responsible for electric power and consulted 61 Issue 6 Sharing and Mutual Prosperity A story of hope about Maika and Babi In Batangas, Luzon Island, Philippines, there are Walking along the meandering road from Maika’s children who have special relationship with KEPCO. home leads to a very narrow alley where we can Maika, an eight year old born cross-eyed, and five year find Babi’s house. old Babi. With the financial support under KEPCO’s Babi lives with her father, mother, brother and Eye Love Hope Angel Project, they went through the younger sister in a small room. Babi’s recovery first operation last year and are waiting for the second is closely monitored before the operation. While operation. Babi was having fun with her sister, her mother After the first operation, they have recovered a lot. sees her with concerned eyes. I hope she can Maika’s mom can smile now. “KEPCO gave a big hope see the bright sky soon. “Thank you, KEPCO. to my son and family. I look forward to completing the I love you,” said Babi shyly. KEPCO and Babi operation and seeing him be healthy and happy just like communicate through light. other kids.” 40 12 11 6 4 2 2 2 1 2012 Eye Love Hope Angel Eyesight Recovery Surgery Project Philippines Mexico Jordan China Mongolia Nigeria Indonesia South Africa Total Shared growth with SMEs Growth sharing strategies With the ultimate goal of becoming a “Global Top Green & Smart Energy Pioneer growing together with SMEs,” KEPCO strives to promote growth of SMEs along with us with 3 strategies of supporting exports, lowering entry barriers and reinforcing support for SMEs. Supporting SMEs’ exports KEPCO supported SMEs in 10 countries including Indonesia and Venezuela taking advantage of KEPCO brand power, initiating an export of 36.41 billion dollars in 2012, 39% up from the previous year. We signed the UAE NPP project as a team that includes SMEs, which is 190 million dollars in exports with the effect of creating 3,326 jobs. From this year, we plan to implement the KEPCO Trusted Partner Project to promote the export of SMEs and open exhibition centers for SME products in KEPCO overseas offices. ▲ Lowering entry barriers In order to lower the entry barrier to the procurement at KEPCO, we reduced the list of items that require advance registration by more than 25% in 2013 and improved qualification evaluation criteria to widen tendering opportunities. From this year, in order to facilitate cooperative R&D activities, we expanded the portion of cash support to 100% and do not any more impose penalty on projects where members worked hard with sincerity but failed. Reinforcing the support for SMEs In April 2013, for the first time in Korea, we held the KEPCO Electric Fair with 230 booths participating, where we gave Promoting Reinforcing opportunities to expand the sales channels to 147 SME growth of SMEs marketing & PR partners. At the expo, business meetings for purchases worth 95.4 billion won were arranged and contracts worth 9.2 billion won were signed. TRUSTED PARTNER In 2012, 68% of our procurement, or a 4.2 trillion won purchase was from SMEs. We provided a cooperation R&D fund of 3.3 billion won and supports for the international certification in Lowering Expanding sales quality, environment and safety & health worth 450 million entry barriers channels abroad won. These efforts contributed to the enhancement of quality and technological competitiveness of SMEs. Issue Reporting & Performance KEPCO Sustainability Report 2013 62 SPECIAl FEATuRE A road we walk together, KEPCO held KEPCO Electric Fair in April, 2013. The social responsibilities and, beyond that, realizing a road worth walking fair was organized to promote shared growth, which shared values that contribute to public interests KEPCO Electric Fair 2013 was the first of its kind in Korea, and ran a variety of society. of programs such as legal counseling, management consulting and R&D support to help SMEs resolve ∷ Counselling for startups ∷ management difficulties and innovate. Partnership Product System and 147 SMEs and 9 large companies participated in Total registration purchase technology exhibition booths and over 20,000 individuals including 36 cases 32 cases 31 cases 99 cases employees of electric power SMEs, public organizations, small business owners and general public visited the ∷ Counselling for SMEs ∷ fair. 429 companies had counselling sessions. All in all, the fair received positive responses. Financial Export R&D Total support support To upgrade its shared growth strategy, in 2013 KEPCO 44 cases 5 cases 23 cases 72 cases classified the strategy into three areas—supporting exports, lowering entry barriers and reinforcing support for SMEs—and 15 policies. This fair was organized as ∷ Expanding sales channels at home and abroad ∷ (Counselling worth 95.4 billion won, contract accounting to 9.2 billion won) one of the policies. It was not just an event to give support for SMEs but a Amount (100 million won) venue to offer new business Cases Domestic opportunities and exchange Export Total sales technology to ultimately 477 394 560 954 achieve convergence and creation with SMEs, small business owners, electric Amount (100 million won) power group companies, Contracts Domestic large companies and Export Total sales foreign buyers. KEPCO is 15 30 62 92 committed to fulfilling Mr. Kim Pyung, CEO of EWOOTEC Please briefly introduce your company. opportunity to go global based on joint marketing EWOOTEC possesses the technology to detect the and provided management support through location of underground facilities and maintain them. KEPCO’s management consulting program. The We have around 30 domestic and international patents partnership has showed a significant influence in and play a role in building the national infrastructure. the growth of EWOOTEC. How has EWOOTEC’s partnership with KEPCO What words would you offer to KEPCO as helped your company? it strives to increase its partnerships with There was a need for ultra-precision location detector SMEs? technology for the installation and maintenance Based on EWOOTEC’s experience for mutual of underground power facilities. Our technology growth with KEPCO, we want to demonstrate the met these requirements and since 2007, we have importance of partnerships in the global market. partnered with KEPCO. Having been selected as a It is our wish that the exemplary case of jointly KEPCO Trusted Partner recently, we are benefiting from exploring global sales channels and enhancing KEPCO’s overseas network and marketing capabilities the national competitiveness would be EWOOTEC. and improving our partnership with KEPCO. This We are grateful of KEPCO’s efforts to stick has helped us develop technology and enhance the together and never fail. competitiveness of our products. It has also secured an 63 Issue 6 Sharing and Mutual Prosperity Growth of the KEPCO group companies For the shared growth of group companies, win-win competition will be pursued on the basis of the autonomous and responsible management of each group company, but when it comes to overseas business and national projects requiring synergies within the electric power industry, KEPCO and GENCOs form a cooperative system to pursue comprehensive “coopetition”*. Also, to stably supply electric power and enhance the competency of the KEPCO Group, we are trying to procure fuel economically, strengthen cooperation in R&D, jointly expand overseas business, and jointly respond to climate change. Shared growth of KEPCO Group Reinforce competitiveness and create synergies(Coopetition) Win-win competition among group companies Cooperation for shared growth Cooperation Subsidiary Subsidiary Subsidiary Subsidiary Raise corporate value Reinforce the cooperative system of facilities Improved management efficiency of GENCOs Stable supply 1,800MW of electricity 78.4% in 2012 Economic purchasing KRW 47.6 billion of savings of generation fuel Group CEO meeting Issue 07 HR Development for the Future Created Hired high school graduates for 1,044 1,745 jobs 28.8 % specialists for overseas business Employ the largest number of interns Expand the performance-based Build a pool of human resources for among public corporations (1,062) payment system global competitiveness What we’ve done KEPCO hires an increasing number of people to stabilize WHAT power supply and create growth engine. We assume social responsibility by employing those from different social background in a balanced way. KEPCO deploys diverse hiring process such as open recruit and HOW internship. We hire more high school graduates, talented people from provincial areas and female workers while creating growth momentum by developing employees competent to work in overseas business. WHY KEPCO takes the lead in resolving the social problem of youth unemployment, improving performance with newly hired talented human resources, and achieving national goals of job creation and balanced hiring. 65 Issue 7 HR Development for the Future Establishment of the ideal employee model and the strategic management of human resources For better business management and the creation of growth engines, KEPCO established the ideal employee model, and we identifies, develops and manages professional human resources in strategic link with the model. The “global pioneer” model was established based on corporate vision, growth strategy and analysis of external environment with systematically formed competency models such as leadership and practical work. We do a fair human resources management based on personality and aptitude tests and reflecting the employee model. ∷ KEPCO Employee Model ∷ In the global market of unlimited competiGlobal P tion, KEPCO global pioneers are armed with the determination to become a global no. 1 eer ion energy group and with a persevering pioneering spirit. Passionate Generalist Entrepreneur Value Creator Challenger ∷ Strategic relationship between the employee model and competency model ∷ step 1 KEPCO ideal employee model step 2 Competency model and HR management Sharing corporate Common Leadership Work values Vision Strategies for growth Identifying KEPCO strategically competency required Sharing model Analyzing competencies corporate environment values Internal environment Global External Identifying Pioneer environment practically Competency based personality/ required aptitude tests to strategically competencies manage human resources Employee survey Management interview Employee questionnaire Secure Develop Evaluate Compensate Retain ∷ Demand management system to identify educational needs ∷ Survey the needs Develop courses based Survey the satisfaction/ Pull opinions about Confirm education for professional on the needs materiality level of trainees educational needs plan for the training of all courses by area next year Needs Course Course Needs survey survey Confirmation by area development diagnosis by area of needs Personnel management and compensation system To establish a fair compensation system based on employee performance, we raised the portion of incentives and payment based on ability and performance (23%) and put in place a bonus system within departments and price bonus. We position talented employees who complete special educational courses in areas with growth potential such as overseas business, and an open recommendation system for selecting employees at important departments leads to fair and transparent HR management. Issue Reporting & Performance KEPCO Sustainability Report 2013 66 Open employment, good jobs KEPCO has increased the number of recruits even amid unfavorable business conditions in order to maintain a stable supply of power and meet the government objectives of reducing youth unemployment. New employees are injected to create a young, flexible organization and sustainable growth engines. We hire people based on capabilities and competencies regardless of educational background, age and gender. We are also employing high school graduates, interns, talented people in provincial areas and female talents. We also hire more people to explore new business such as overseas business and green growth technology development, and have the largest number of interns in an effort to create jobs and tackle youth unemployment. ∷ New employment composition ∷ Category 2010 2011 2012 Regular workers 132 155 683 (high school graduates) (34) (42) (197) (those from provincial areas) (73) (55) (303) (female) (24) (36) (214) Interns 1,008 971 1,062 ∷ Mechanisms to hire people from various backgrounds ∷ Category Details 2012 performance Adoption Women A 20% quota 31.3% 1998 Those from provincial areas A 30% quota 44.3% 2007 46 interns with employment opportunities Vocational high school 78 high school graduates in open recruitment 152 2011 graduates * 104 interns separately in the second half of 2012 (hired in February 2013) Men of national merit 5-10% extra points 50 1961 The disabled 10 regular workers, 74 interns 84 2006 199 interns with employment opportunities Interns 863 interns with employment preference (including those 1,062 2012 with disabilities) Others/balanced hiring North Korean defectors, island residents 4 2012 Mr. Kim Ye-geol, KEPCO employee as of 2012 You were a topic of conversation in 2009 when I want to be a leader in exploring and developing you set your aptitude and goals and entered new areas in the power sector, and utilize my Sudo Electric Technical High School at the top of strong command of a foreign language in the your class instead of advancing to high schools global market. As KEPCO has contributed to the specializing in science or foreign languages. national development, I want to be an engineer What message would you like to share with who contributes to the national development, students who are considering their aptitudes too. and goals? I think what really matters is that they have various What do you want to say to KEPCO, the experiences and find what they really like. We tend to company with which you have chosen to become interested in something and then try to figure share your future? out what we like. As this repeats, students will create I hope that KEPCO becomes a company for the their own perspectives and a sense of confidence, which people by reliably providing electricity, and a will be a guide in determining their academic and career leader in the global energy industry. I will try paths. harder to this end. We may face hardship down the road, but let’s overcome any difficulties we What does your dream have in common with meet and move forward to a bright future. Go! the vision of KEPCO? Go! KEPCO! 67 Issue 7 HR Development for the Future Creative HR development KEPCO provides educational opportunities to all employees in order to strengthen their capabilities and special education customized to nurture globally competitive employees. In 2012, a shift training for overseas business developed 1,044 specialists by activity area, and the creation of a talent pool (1,387) allows strategic HR management. Also, we promotes innovation of corporate culture and communication through mindset innovation training. ∷ Mindset innovation training ∷ ∷ Budget and number of trainees ∷ Track Track Ⅰ Ⅱ Category 2010 2011 2012 Category 2010 2011 2012 Crisis/sense Opportunity/creativity Total budget General 22,394 21,209 19,618 855 966 1,884 (domestic business) (overseas business) (business expenses) managers (7.4%) (8.0%) (8.2%) and higher (Common) Internal 75 78 64 Pride-up, sense of crisis, Senior 3,235 3,030 6,270 empathy with need for change managers (28.2%) (25.0%) (27.1%) Budget for External 117 92 205 education 7,400 8,106 14,954 Internalize Creative thinking/ Employees core actions innovation (64.4%) (67.0) (64.7%) 192 170 269 Total (0.86%) (0.80%) (1.37%) Total 11,490 12,102 23,108 All Together, Enjoy Change! ※ 2013 target: education budget of 28.8 billion won, 44,807 recipients ※ Average hours of education in 2012: 59.7 hours/person 2 days/16 hours ∷ Special education program for overseas business in 2012 ∷ Number of Category Period Methodology trainees Basic Basic project support course 680 2 weeks Business basic/EPCM basic courses Generation/renewables/ Intensive 300 5-7 months Intensive courses by overseas business activity international agreements Localization for strategic areas 16 1 year Nurture regional specialists Long-term IB-MBA 20 10 months MBA customized for overseas business education at external O&M OJT dispatched to the plant 18 2-9 months O&M OJT dispatched to the plant institutions KINGS 10 2 years Master’s degree course in nuclear industry Total 1,044 Life long education KEPCO supports self-development and work performance enhancement through e-learning courses in humanities, leadership, and work-related skills. Prospect retirees receive outplacement education to support their successful retirement life. The blended learning of on-line and off-line courses in 26 subjects in 7 programs including change management, asset management and business startup & employment enhanced access and efficiency of education. Issue 08 Pleasant and Happy Work Environment Industrial accident rate Female employees Those with disabilities 0.036 % 31.3 % 3.4 % Certified safety health management Have 421 employees enjoy maternity Established a Happy Workplace system in 12 offices protection system What we’ve done KEPCO strives to create a pleasant and exciting work WHAT environment where creative ideas develop based on organizational culture of trust and open communication. KEPCO operates the Happy Workplace Campaign and community HOW service groups, and strives to achieve safety and health management and gender equality. Workplace is where we develop ourselves and spend the most WHY hours of a day. Individual happiness is key to sustained growth of the company and a fundamental element of growth momentum. 69 Issue 8 Pleasant and Happy Work Environment Low turnover rate Happy Workplace Campaign 0.6 % KEPCO is carrying out the Happy Workplace Campaign to create a pleasant and fun work environment where creative (Those who left the ideas develop based on organizational culture of trust and open communication. The main drivers are trust among company:118) employees, pride in the company, and fun at workplace, and the campaign involves activities such as improving team Long years of service get-together practices and having Family Day. 18.7years (Average service) When Happy Workplace is realized, we look forward to the day in the morning. TRUST PRIDE FUN Maintain trust Raise pride Create a fun among employees in the company workplace ▲ Happy Workplace Portal ▲ Daddy’s play school ▲ Happy Family Day ▲ Family workplace tour Digital mentoring To share the latest trends, junior employees become mentors of senior employees or senior management. In March 2013, to maximize work satisfaction level through flexible thinking and open communication, KEPCO had digital mentoring Mentee Mentor agreements between 307 junior employees and 307 executives and senior managers. ▲ Mentor new employee and mentee CEO ▲ Digital mentoring compact to create a happy workplace Issue Reporting & Performance KEPCO Sustainability Report 2013 70 Cooperative labor management relationship ∷ KEPCO Today & Junior Board Website ∷ Reliable labor management relationship is an essential requirement for a company’s performance enhancement and sustainable development. KEPCO is committed to pursuing mutual development by strengthening communication and cooperation between labor and management. ∷ Relations of performance and To facilitate cooperation and communication, we held compensation ∷ 1,004 labor management consultative meetings at headquarters and branch offices and 335 management Performance assessment issue presentations to share important issues. Two-way ∷ Labor management consultative meeting ∷ Individual Team communications are promoted to share management issues, deliver opinions from workplaces and express fresh management ideas. The Junior Board composed of young employees and senior managers initiates bottomup management proposals and KEPCO Today, corporate Basic Performance newsletter made by selected employee reporters, is salary based salary published to promote communications. Yearly assessment Salary for the year results are is determined accumulated for the entire term of based on the year’s Performance-oriented compensation scheme performance employment The compensation consists of basic salary and performance-driven salary. By strengthening the link between MBO performance assessment and compensation, we differentiate salaries based on ability and performance. { Cyber welfare center } Welfare programs KEPCO B2E Mall Welfare content KEPCO develops and runs numerous welfare programs to create a healthy corporate culture and raise employee satisfaction levels through a work life balance. The cyber welfare center is in operation which shows welfare programs by category while diverse professional services are offered at corporate rates from shopping malls, accommodations, travel agencies and other companies. Happiness Up (Web-based) Safety health management KEPCO announced and is sharing among all executives and employees its health, safety, environment (HSE) policies designed to achieve highest HSE. We wholly revised and is implementing safety health management manuals reflecting K-OHSMS 18001 to meet the international standards. We had the period for industrial safety and health (JuneJuly, 2012), strengthened safety health education and published Safety Zine. Welfare service Employee/ close to lif family involvement Particularly, to prevent accidents in construction sites, safety patrol teams were formed at the head office level and conducted special diagnosis on 361 construction sites nationwide. Safety and health education is a requirement to complete for all employees of partner companies for their enhanced health and safety. Also, we are working to get certification for enterprise safety health management system in order to make systematic HSE activities and an autonomous safety culture take root and to boost credibility in overseas business. In 2012, 12 firstlevel branch offices out of 23 obtained certification, and in 2013, the rest 11 offices and all partner companies plan to get certification. Category 2009 2010 2011 2012 Disaster prevention policies Average industrial accident rate of all industries (%) 0.70 0.69 0.65 0.59 such as National Emergency KEPCO employees in accident (people) 11 4 4 7 Management Agency and Korea Power KEPCO industrial accident rate (%) 0.055 0.020 0.021 0.036 Exchange ※ Civilian victim (one death, one injury) disasters For improved quality of life and learning proper health information, a variety of disaster site health management programs and e-learning health education are being provided for all employees. Disaster prevention program General medical checkups conducted every year are to enhance health conditions of employees, and special medical checkups are done every two years which include System detailed blood test. With the help of external institutions, no smoking campaign, metabolic syndrome when a disaster occurs counseling, precision physical checkups are provided and well received among employees. For the employees working overseas or on business trip, we adopted the Safety Guard System in 2012 and expanded health management at branch offices with less than 50 employees in the first half of 2013 by commissioning it to professional institutions. 71 Issue 8 Pleasant and Happy Work Environment Human Rights Management KEPCO pledges not to discriminate against its employees on the basis of gender, educational background, religion, age, and disabilities as is explained in Chapter 5 (Employee Ethics) of the Code of Ethics. KEPCO will also faithfully abide by ILO Convention No. 111 Concerning Discrimination in Respect of Employment and Occupation. In order to create an Expect to sign on the MOU on organization with no discrimination and to enhance awareness about human rights through education, it has become human rights management with the mandatory to offer education on sexual harassment and the prevention of prostitution, with counselors receive courses National Human Rights Commission from external organizations. All employees including personnel in charge of security take human rights education for the first time as a Korean periodically. company (October 2013) In addition, personnel management complaint system is in operation to protect the human rights of employees. If an employee files a complaint with the system, a process is run for fact-finding and the complaint is considered during the next personnel reshuffling. The complaint handling results are disclosed to the employee who filed, and any unfavorable treatment following the use of the system is prevented systematically. For the period of this report, no human rights related law suits were raised via the system. SPECIAl FEATuRE For the human rights Dial 123 minus the area code to be connected to a time as a public corporation. If a customer calls and protection of workers who KEPCO call center. As calls come in relentlessly, call lashes out in a violent and abusive manner, the do “emotional labor” center employees listen to customer inquiries and offer counselor has been trained to give a verbal warning immediate answers. Ms. Jung Mi-young has been working of possible legal recourse as the first step and KEPCO’s concerns and here for about 10 years. Although she is a veteran, she subsequently relays the call to his or her manager. solutions gets stressed out sometimes because she has to always Then, an automated answering system warns of respond to customers kindly regardless of her current legal measures and the call is ended automatically. state of mood. Ms. Jung is a so-called “emotional laborer.” In 2013, emotional labor has risen as a social issue. Since What are the toughest difficulties counselors individuals working in this field have to constantly provide undergo as you always have to be kind services in a spirit of kindness, their complaints and regardless of your emotional state? hardships were considered as personal issues, and thus It is hard to act on our emotions. Especially when few measures were implemented to assist them. In light offensive comments which belittle women or of a of its importance, KEPCO has attempted to address this sexual nature are directed toward me, it gets even issue. The human rights of these call center counselors harder. who work to realize customer satisfaction are as important as the value of customer satisfaction itself. You must have rewarding moments, but also In July 2013, KEPCO created and began operating manuals a fair amount of hardship. Recently, KEPCO on how to respond to ill-willed complaints for the first adopted a manual system to respond to illintended calls. Has the system really made a difference? Before the system was adopted, we could never end such calls from our side and were forced to stay on the line sometimes for an hour or two. After the system was put in place, we can move on to the next step according to the process, and thus I feel reassured. Please tell us what social perceptions have to change regarding emotional labor. What additional efforts should companies make? It is important that society begins to see the Ms. Jung Mi-young, counselor at KEPCO Call Center difficulties suffered by emotional laborers as a She handles about 130 calls daily. The KEPCO Call Center has 170 counselors who primarily handle social issue not as an individual problem. I hope all notifications that someone is moving in or out of their residence and issues regarding the electricity bill. companies adopt measures designed to relieve the types of stress our emotional laborers go through. Prevention of child and forced labor KEPCO complies with the Labor Standards Act and ILO Convention No. 105 Concerning Abolition of Forced Labor, and the principle in Labor Standards, one of the United Nations Global Compact’s top 10 Principles. There is no record of child or forced labor at KEPCO. Privacy protection KEPCO has implemented technical security measures such as Internet firewalls and system access controls to protect the privacy of customers and prevent illegal data leaks. KEPCO also provides education on the importance of privacy protection on a regular basis. Issue Reporting & Performance KEPCO Sustainability Report 2013 72 Gender equality and family-friendly company ∷ Family-friendly Portal ∷ KEPCO is operating a professional counseling center for establishing a mature and healthy culture for gender equality. We are also family-friendly systems by the stage of life and the Family-Friendly Portal to share relevant information. We have built and operated a maternity leave planning system to relieve the psychological burden of those who are on maternity leave and utilize a pool of replacements to minimize the impact on work. Also, we have flex-time program to guarantee the time for taking care of a child and the company childcare center to support the employee’s work life balance. We are running a retirement pension system to help employees lead a stable life in an aging society. As of 2012, there were 288 subscribers to the individual retirement pension scheme worth 22.1 billion won. KEPCO puts in place a fair compensation and promotion mechanism for male and female employees, with the basic starting annual salary for university graduates at 27,170,000 won regardless of gender. As a result of the company’s efforts to nurture female leaders, the number of female senior managers has constantly increased from only 7 until 2000 to 147 in August 2013. ∷ Female employee trend ∷ Regular Senior Year workers managers 2012 214(31%) 31 2008 282 200 82 2011 36(23%) 7 Returning rate after 2009 305 2010 24(18%) 5 maternity leave 212 93 2010 347 99.4% ∷ Flex-time working system ∷ 196 139 51 6 2011 2012 2013 2011 389 99.4% Category 180 200 52 2 (plan) Hourly work 18 41 100 2012 421 99.7% Flexible work hours 21 140 187 217 638 Remote work 80 Infertility leave Flex-time work system for childcare Reduced work hours for childcare Maternity leave Maternity leave (childbirth) (childcare) ∷ Company childcare center ∷ Company childcare center makes mothers happy. “We try to give education “I like being able to sticking to the basics of respond to the situation development. We focus my kid is in. That relieved on problem solving “beginner” moms like me. capabilities rather than Company childcare center study to help children is an essential facility that reach their potential. We makes moms happier” will try to make happier Woo Hyun-kyung kids.” Shim Myung-hee Head of KEPCO Employee Childcare Center Selected as the Best Childcare Center in terms of character building education organized by the Ministry of Education, Science and Technology and the Ministry of Employment of those with disabilities Health and Welfare (August 2012) KEPCO gives preference when hiring people with disabilities to help them become economically independent and active members of society, and we strive to improve working environment. We give additional points in open recruitment and run internship for the disabled in an effort to give greater employment and work experience opportunities. As of the end of 2012, 669 people with disabilities are working at KEPCO, which is higher than the legal requirement of 3%. Category 2010 2011 2012 Regular worker 19,952 19,626 19,969 Disabled employees 583 582 669 Employment rate 2.92% 3.00% 3.40% Appendices Independent Assurance Statement 74 GRI Index 76 Financial Information 78 KEPCO Group Companies 79 Awards and Initiatives 81 Associations and International Membership 82 Glossary 83 Additional Information 84 Appendices KEPCO Sustainability Report 2013 74 Independent To the Stakeholders of : Korea Electric Power Corporation (KEPCO)commissioned the Korea Productivity Center (the “Assurer”) to provide an Assurance independent assurance of its 2013 Sustainability Report (the “Report”). Statement/ Responsibility and Integrity Korea Korea Electric Power Corporation (KEPCO)is responsible for the reliability and accuracy of all information and opinions Productivity presented in this “Report”. The Assurer holds the responsibility which lies solely in providing a third party verification of the content in the “Report”. As an independent assurance agency, the Assurer was neither involved in the process Center of preparing this “Report” with Korea Electric Power Corporation (KEPCO), nor in any conflicts of interest that may undermine our independence. Assurance Standard and Objectives The independent verification process was planned and performed in accordance with the AA1000AS (2008) Assurance Standard to provide Type 1 moderate level of assurance. This is achieved through the evaluation of the organization’s adherence to the AA1000APS Accountability Principles (2008) of Inclusivity, Materiality and Responsiveness. Additionally, the assurance was performed to ascertain the organization’s adherence to the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G3.1 Guidelines in preparing and presenting sustainability performance information. Assurance Limitations Based on the aforementioned assurance standards, the Assurer performed verification of the organization’s sustainability performance during 2012, however the assurance did not include the reliability of data financial performance, public domains and information linked with the website. Site inspection was performed at the head office. Therefore, the Assurer clearly states that any additional verification conducted in the future may issue varied results. Assurance Methodology The assurance was undertaken following the methodology specified below: 1. Verified the coverage rate and presentation method for economic, environmental and social indicators specified in the GRI G3.1 Guidelines 2. Verified consistency with the principles dictating the content and quality of sustainability reports based on the GRI G3.1 Guidelines and Some additional reporting on the GRI G4 Guideline indicators have been checked for suitability. 3. Verified the appropriateness of identifying key issues and the responsiveness to the content presented in the Report by the material analysis methodology, media research and benchmarking. 4. Verified the appropriateness of the report content with other sources for incorrect information through comparative analysis. 5. On-site verification at the head office and plant has been conducted to confirm evidences for key data and information as well as internal processes. Findings and Conclusions It is the Assurer’s opinion that the Report fairly and accurately presents the sustainability efforts and performance of Korea Electric Power Corporation (KEPCO). Followings are results of assurance according to AA1000 Accountability Principles (2008) of Inclusivity, Materiality and Responsiveness. The principle of inclusivity articulates that organizations should include stakeholders in developing and achieving an accountable and strategic response to sustainability. The principle of inclusivity articulates that organizations should include stakeholders in developing and achieving an accountable and strategic response to sustainability. Bases on the findings of these assurance efforts, it is evident that Korea Electric Power Corporation (KEPCO) defined major stakeholders and presented communication channels for each stakeholder group to adhere to the principle of inclusivity on management decisions and sustainability issues. Korea Electric Power Corporation (KEPCO) identified 6 key stakeholders as shareholders, creditors, government, NGOs, suppliers and employees. Korea Electric Power Corporation (KEPCO) should further enhance stakeholder engagement initiatives by managing the issues collected through stakeholder communication channels more comprehensively and incorporating them into broader areas of its business operations. The principle of materiality articulates that organizations should focus on issues relevant and material to both the organization and its major stakeholders. The Assurer found that Korea Electric Power Corporation (KEPCO) identified sustainability issues relevant and material to the company and its stakeholder through a wide range of methods through benchmarking, media analysis, and stakeholder engagement through the materiality assessment. Korea Electric Power Corporation (KEPCO) identified 20 issues in the Report and presented these material issues in a fairly balanced manner. 75 The principle of responsiveness articulates that organizations should be responsive to issues that may have impacts on stakeholders’ performance. The Assurer found that Korea Electric Power (KEPCO) successfully promotes sustainability placing an emphasis on strengthening future growth, low-carbongreen management, strengthening partnerships with stakeholders as 3 key areas. Based on such efforts, the Assurer appreciates Korea Electric Power (KEPCO) to achieve sustainability management across its business and present strategic direction for supplying power and stability for future growth through committed strategic communication. Recommendations The Assurer commends Korea Electric Power Corporation for making a variety of efforts to improve sustainability, resulting performances, and presents the following recommendations to enhance future sustainability reports and sustainability management. 1. The Assurer recommends the promotion of the materiality assessment and stakeholder engagement process in the sustainability report publication to determine and develop strategic direction. The results of the stakeholder engagement and materiality assessment process should regulate the standards across the organization in the sustainability assessment. 2. The Assurer recommends Korea Electric Power (KEPCO) to establish and presentsustainability issues for review to the Board of Directors in addition to forming a Sustainability Management Committee and Subcommittee to examine, companywide, sustainability issues for decision making in order to avoid crises and maximize opportunities. 3. The Assurer recommends creating a sustainability data management process. to perform a detailed analysis and provide information of how Korea Electric Power Corporation (KEPCO) creates financial and non-financial value while maintaining a consistent management process with formal data collection and management procedures. September 2013 Hong Jin Chairman Korea Productivity Center 000-81 Dong Soo Kim, Tae Hoo, Park Seung Tae, Cheong Director Team LeaderSenior Fellow Expert adviser Sustainability Management Center Sustainability Management Center Sustainability Management Center The Sustainability Management Center of the Korea Productivity Center is an assurance agency officially certified by AccountAbility, which established AA1000, the international standards for stakeholder participation and verification, and has qualifications to perform independent assurance engagements. Our Assurance Committee is also comprised of competent experts who have in-depth experience in sustainability management consulting and assurance and completed the relevant professional training. Appendices KEPCO Sustainability Report 2013 76 GRI G4 Index GRI G4 response mechanism Reporting level : ●Fully ◐Partially ×Not reported N/A Reporting Remarks KEPCO has been building a concrete response Category No. Description Page process to the GRI G4 guidelines announced in level May 2013, which are designed to respond to Governance G4-35 The procedure of delegating the authority of the highest decision making organization to the chief executives and the staff regarding the economy, environment and social issues 16 ● different sustainability management standards and policies. We reviewed the current status of The appointment of executives responsible for the economy, environment, society and their authority G4-36 to report to the highest 16 ● G4, identified improvements and developed key decision making organization performance indicators. Based on this, we will deRoles of the highest decision making organization and chief executives in the course of establishing, velop content and increase the satisfaction level G4-42 approving and revising the strategies, policies and goals regarding the economy, environment and 16 ● of indicators. society G4-43 Measures to strengthen and improve the management capabilities of the highest decision making organization regarding the economy, environment and society issues 17 ● ∷ KEPCO 3-Year Road Map for GRI G4 ∷ G4-50 The nature, number and resolution procedure of material issues reported to the highest decision making organization 16 ● Goal Tasks 2013 Target 2014 Target 2015 Target GRI G4 analysis ■■■■■ ■■■■■ ■■■■■ G4-52 Procedure and standards of determining payment 70 ● GRI G4 Complement and identify ■■□□□ ■■■■■ ■■■■■ G4-56 Codes of conducts or ethics regulating the reporting organization’s core values and principles, and actions 22 ● improvements Response framework Establish targets □□□□□ ■■■■■ ■■■■■ Environment G4-EN4 48 ● Develop and manage key G4-EN5 48 ● □□□□□ □□□□□ ■■■■■ performance indicators G4-EN18 GHG emissions intensity (total GHG emissions/sales or the number of employees) 53 ● Develop content applying ■□□□□ ■■■□□ ■■■■■ GRI G4 GRI G4 index adoption Increase satisfaction of □□□□□ ■■□□□ ■■■■■ GRI G4 Index Reporting level : ●Fully ◐Partially ×Not reported N/A GRI G3.1 Index Category No. Description Page Reporting Remarks level 1.1 Statement from the most senior decision maker of the organization about the relevance of 2 ● Strategy and sustainability to the organization and its strategy analysis 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities 12 ● 2.1 Name of the organization 7 ● Organizational 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services 6 ● profile 2.3 Operational structure of the organization 7, 79 ● 2.4 Location of organization’s headquarters 7 ● 2.5 Countries where the organization operates 32, 33 ● 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form 7 ● 2.7 Markets served 6 ● 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization 7 ● 2.9 Significant changes regarding size, structure, or ownership Cover ● 2.10 Awards received 81 ● Report 3.1 Reporting period Cover ● parameters 3.2 Date of most recent previous report Cover ● 3.3 Reporting cycle Cover ● 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents 84 ● 3.5 Process for defining report content 24 ● 3.6 Boundary of the report Cover ● 3.7 Limitations on the scope or boundary of the report Cover ● 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, and other entities that can significantly affect Cover ● comparability from period to period 3.9 Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations Cover ● 3.10 Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information provided in earlier reports, and the Cover ● reasons for such re-statement 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, boundary, or measurement methods Cover ● applied in the report 3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures in the report 76 ● 3.13 External assurance for the report 74 ● Governance, 4.1 Governance structure of the organization 16 ● commitments 4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the BOD is also an executive officer 16 ● and 4.3 Number of members of the BOD that are independent and/or non-executive members 16 ● engagement 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recommendations or direction to the BOD 16 ● 4.5 Linkage between compensation for members of the BOD and executives and the organization’s performance 17 ● 4.6 Processes in place for the BOD to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided 16 ● 4.7 Process for determining the qualifications and expertise of the members of the BOD 16 ● 4.8 Statements of mission or values, codes of conduct, and principles relevant to economic, 14 ● environmental, and social performance 4.9 Procedures of the BOD for overseeing the organization’s identification and management of economic, 16 ● environmental, and social performance 4.10 Processes for evaluating the BOD’s own performance, particularly with respect to economic, 16 ● environmental, and social performance 4.11 Precautionary approach or principle addressed by the organization 18 ● 4.12 Externally developed economic, environmental, and social charters, principles, or other initiatives to 81 ● which the organization subscribes or endorses 4.13 Memberships in associations and/or national/international advocacy organizations 82 ● 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization 25 ● 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage 25 ● 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement 25 ● 4.17 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement 25 ● Economic EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 30 ● performance EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organization’s activities due to climate change 51 ● EC3 Coverage of the organization’s defined benefit plan obligations 72 N/A EC4 Significant financial assistance received from government 28 N/A EC5 Ratios of standard entry level wage compared to local minimum wage at significant locations of operation 35 ● EC6 Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on locally-based suppliers at significant locations of operation 35 ● EC7 Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior management hired from the local community at 35 ● locations of significant operation EC8 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services provided primarily for public benefit 28, 55 ● EC9 Significant indirect economic impacts 55 ● 77 Reporting level : ●Fully ◐Partially ×Not reported N/A Reporting Category No. Description Page Remarks level Environmental EN1 Materials used by weight or volume 48 ● performance EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials 48 ● EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source 48 ● EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source 48 ● GENCO performance EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements 48 ● EN6 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy based products and services, and reductions in energy 47, 48 ● requirements as a result of these initiatives EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and reductions achieved 47, 48 ● EN8 Total water withdrawal by source 48 ● EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water N/A Tap water only EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused 48 ● EN11 Location and size of land owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high 44 ◐ biodiversity value outside protected areas EN12 Significant impacts of activities, products, and services on biodiversity in protected areas and areas of high 44 ◐ biodiversity value outside protected areas EN13 Habitats protected or restored N/A EN14 Strategies, current actions, and future plans for managing impacts on biodiversity 44 ● EN15 Number of IUCN Red List species and national conservation list species with habitats in areas affected by N/A The whole nation is its business district. operations EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight 53 ● EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight 53 ● EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions achieved 52-54 ● EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight 43 ● EN20 NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions by type and weight 43 ● EN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination 48 ● EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method 48 ● EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills 43 ● EN24 Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste deemed hazardous under the terms of the Basel Convention 43 ◐ EN25 Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of water bodies and related habitats significantly affected 44 ● by the reporting organization’s discharges of water and runoff EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and services, and extent of impact mitigation 41, 51 ● EN27 Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are reclaimed by category N/A EN28 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for noncompliance with N/A environmental laws and regulations EN29 Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and materials used for the 44 ● organization’s operations, and transporting members of the workforce EN30 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type 48 ● LA1 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type 7 ◐ Labor performance LA2 Total number and rate of employee turnover 69 ● LA3 Benefits provided to full-time employees 70 ● LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements 70 ● LA5 Minimum notice period(s) regarding operational changes 70 ● LA6 Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management–worker health and safety committees 70 ● LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities by region 70 ● LA8 Education, training, counseling, prevention, and risk-control programs in place to assist workforce members, 56, 70 ● their families, or community members regarding serious diseases LA9 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions 70 ● LA10 Average hours of training per year per employee by employee category 67 ● LA11 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued employability of employees 67 ● and assist them in managing career endings LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews 65 ● LA13 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per category 16, 72 ● LA14 Ratio of basic salary of men to women by employee category 72 ● LA15 Return and retention rate after maternity leave by sex 72 ● HR1 Percentage and total number of significant investment agreements that include human rights clauses or that 71 ◐ Human rights have undergone human rights screening performance HR2 Percentage of significant suppliers and contractors that have undergone screening on human rights and actions taken 71 ◐ HR3 Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures concerning aspects of human rights 71 ● HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and actions taken 71 ● HR5 Right to exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining 70 ● HR6 Measures taken to contribute to the elimination of child labor 71 ● HR7 Measures to contribute to the elimination of forced or compulsory labor 71 ● HR8 Percentage of security personnel trained in the organization’s policies or procedures concerning aspects of human rights 71 ● HR9 Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous people and actions taken 35 ● HR10 Number and rate of assessments of human rights oversight and impact 71 ● HR11 Human rights related law suits/responses/resolved cases through official complaint handling system 71 ● SO1 Programs and practices that assess and manage the impacts of operations on communities 43 ● Social performance SO2 Percentage and total number of business units analyzed for risks related to corruption 21 ● SO3 Percentage of employees trained in organization’s anti-corruption policies and procedures 21 ● SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption 20 ● SO5 Public policy positions and participation in public policy development and lobbying 19 ● SO6 Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to political parties, politicians, and related institutions ● 0 won SO7 Total number of legal actions for anticompetitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices and their outcomes 20 ● SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for noncompliance with laws and regulations 20 ● SO9 Businesses having potential, negative impact on the local communities 55-63 ● SO10 Prevention and reduction activities of businesses having potential, negative impact on the local communities 55-63 ● Product PR1 Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products and services are assessed for improvement 44 ● responsibility Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations concerning health and safety impacts of products PR2 and services ● No violations of relevant regulations PR3 Type of product and service information required by procedures 28 ● PR4 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations concerning product and service information and ● No violations of relevant regulations labeling PR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction 28 ● PR6 Programs for adherence to laws, standards, and voluntary codes related to marketing communications 25 ● PR7 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations concerning marketing communications ● No violations of relevant regulations PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer information protection ● No violations of relevant regulations PR9 Monetary value of significant fines for noncompliance with laws and regulations concerning the provision and ● No violations of relevant regulations use of products and services Appendices KEPCO Sustainability Report 2013 78 Financial Consolidated Statement of Financial Position (unit: 100 million won) information Account The 52nd period (As of December 31, 2012) The 51st period (As of December 31, 2011) Current assets 139,335 137,676 Financial information 1. Cash and cash equivalents 19,550 13,879 with the adoption of IFRS 2. Trade receivables and others 71,846 72,741 3. Inventory 34,403 38,518 4. Other current assets 13,536 12,538 Non-current assets 1,322,193 1,227,003 1. Tangible assets 1,223,762 1,123,849 2. Intangible assets 8,838 8,487 3. Investment interests 48,909 44,854 4. Other non-current assets 40,684 49,813 Total assets 1,461,528 1,364,679 1. Current liabilities 188,171 177,412 2. Non-current liabilities 762,715 649,227 Total liabilities 950,886 826,639 1. Capital stock 40,536 40,536 2. Retained earnings 325,643 357,691 3. Other components of equity 132,709 134,476 4. Non-controlling interests 11,754 5,337 Total shareholders’ equity 510,642 538,040 Total liabilities and shareholders’ equity 1,461,528 1,364,679 Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income The 52nd period The 51st period The 50th period Account (As of December 31, 2012) (As of December 31, 2011) (As of December 31, 2010) 1. Sales 494,215 434,557 395,066 2. Cost of sales/other sales and management expenses 502,394 444,761 378,320 3. Operating loss/profit -8,179 -10,204 16,746 4. Other revenues 3,740 3,174 5,369 5. Other expenses 746 1,476 698 6. Other profits (loss) -17,819 1,657 1,182 7. Financial profits 11,284 6,076 5,914 8. Financial cost 30,683 25,189 25,584 9. Gains/loss on equity method 1,859 1,204 1,041 10. Gains on the disposal of relevant companies -89 27 -274 11. Income before income tax -40,633 -24,731 3,696 12. Income tax expenses -9,854 8,199 4,388 13. Net income -30,779 -32,930 -692 Net income from controlling interests -31,666 -33,705 -1,200 Net income from non-controlling interests 887 775 508 [ Notes ] A part of the financial performance of 2011 became different from the amounts disclosed in 2012 sustainability report. The major reasons for the change are the following two: 1. Change in handling accounts receivable under the fuel 2. Other revenues, other expenses, other gains under the cost pass-through system Public Organization Financial Settlement Guidelines of (Previous) Accounts receivable were considered as sales. the Ministry of Strategy and Finance (Current) Accounts receivable are recognized as reduction (Loss) Change in account system from the cost of sales. → (Impact) Decrease in current (Previous) Include in operating loss/profit assets/accounts receivable in 2011, increase in non(Current) Exclude from operating loss/profit (Earnings current assets/non-current financial assets from public organization contributions are included in revenues.) → (Impact) Increase in revenues in 2011, decrease in operating loss/profit (△ 684.9 billion → △ 1,020.4 billion won) 79 GENCOs (As of the end of 2012) Korea South-East Power Korea Midland Power Korea Western Power Co., ltd. (KOSEP) Co., ltd. (KOMIPO) Co., ltd. (WP) Address: 534 Taeheran St. Gangnam-gu, Seoul Address: 38 Taeheranro 114 gil. Gangnam-gu, Seoul Address: 534 Taeheran St. Gangnam-gu, Seoul Employees: 1,947 Employees: 2,175 Employees 1,844 Paid-in capital: 290.1 billion won Paid-in capital: 137.3 billion won Paid-in capital: 158.9 billion won www.kosep.co.kr www.komipo.co.kr www.westempower.co.kr KOSEP is operating the Samcheonpo Thermal KOMIPO is operating the Boryeong Thermal WP is operating the Taean Thermal Power Plant Power Plant and Yeongheung Thermal Power Power Plant and the Seocheon Thermal Power as base load. As of the end of December 2012, Plant as base load. As of the end of 2012, KOSEP Plant as base load. As of the end of December WP has an installed capacity of 8,409MW, which has an installed capacity of 8,199MW, which in2012, KOMIPO has an installed capacity of includes cludes 6,909MW from 11 bituminous coal units 8,402MW, which breaks down as 4,000MW of 4,000MW of eight bituminous coal units (84.3%), 922MW from 10 LNG combined cycle eight bituminous coal units (47.6%), 3,700MW (47.6%), 2,998MW of 24 LNG combined cycle units (11.2%), and 325MW from anthracite units of 10 LNG combined cycle units (44%), 400MW units (35.7%), and 1,400MW of four oil units (4.0%). Under the long-term power supply plan, of two anthracite units (4.3%), and 285MW of (16.7%). Under the long-term power supply Yeongheung Thermal Power Plant units 5 & 6 four oil units (3.4%). Under the long-term power plan, WP is building Pyeongtaek combined cycle are under construction with an installed capacsupply plan, KOMIPO is building Sinboryeong unit (900MW). ity of 1,740MW. The Yeosu Power Plant unit 1 units 1 & 2 (2,000MW) and Seoul combined (350MW), which is shut down, is being replaced cycle units 1 & 2 (1,000MW). with thermal power plant. Equity share 100% Equity share 100% Equity share 100% Korea Southern Power Korea East-West Power Korea Hydro & Nuclear Co., ltd. (KOSPO) Co., ltd. (EWP) Power Co., ltd. (KHNP) Address: 512 Taeheran St. Gangnam-gu, Seoul Address: 512 Taeheran St. Gangnam-gu, Seoul Address: 512 Taeheran St. Gangnam-gu, Seoul Employees: 1,935 Employees: 2.080 Employees: 9.337 Paid-in capital: 228.8 billion won Paid-in capital: 282.9 billion won Paid-in capital: 1,212.2 billion won www.kospo.co.kr www.ewp.co.kr www.khnp.co.kr KOSPO is operating the Hadong Thermal Power EWP is operating the Dangjin Thermal Power KHNP is operating nuclear power plants as base Plant as base load. As of the end of DecemPlant and Honam Thermal Power Plant as base load and hydroelectric plants as peak load. As ber 2012, KOSPO has an installed capacity of load. As of the end of December 2011, EWP has of the end of December 2012, KHNP has an 9,240MW, which an installed installed capacity of 26,035MW, which is combreaks down as 4,000MW of eight bituminous capacity of 8,816MW, which includes 4,500MW posed of 23 nuclear units of 20,716MW (79.6%), coal units (43.3%), 4,553MW of 31 LNG comof 10 bituminous coal units (51.0%), 2,100MW 16 pumped storage and power generation units bined cycle units (49.3%), 640MW of 8 oil units for 17 LNG combined cycle units (23.8%), of 4,700MW (18.1%) and 21 hydroelectric units (6.9%), and 41MW of 19 wind units (0.4%). Un1,800MW of six oil units (20.4%), and 400MW of of 592MW (2.3%). Under the long-term power der the long-term power supply plan, KOSPO is two anthracite units (4.5%). supply plan, KHNP is building five nuclear power building Samcheok Green Power (2,000MW) and plant units (6,600MW), which are Sinwolsung Andong combined cycle (400MW). unit 2, Sinkori units 3 & 4, Sinulchin 1 & 2. Equity share 100% Equity share 100% Equity share 100% Appendices KEPCO Sustainability Report 2013 80 KEPCO Group companies and companies with equity investment KEPCO Engineering & KEPCO Plant Service & KEPCO Nuclear Fuel Co., ltd. Construction Company, Inc. Engineering Co., ltd. Address: 2354 Yonggudaero, Giheung-gu, Address: 45 Jungjailro, Bundang-gu, Address: 989-242 Daedeokdaero, Yuseong-gu, Yongin City, Gyeonggi Province Seongnam City, Gyeonggi Province Daejeon City Employees: 2,223 Employees: 4,621 Employees: 922 Paid-in capital: 7.6 billion won Paid-in capital: 9 billion won Paid-in capital: 93.2 billion won www.kepco-enc.com www.kps.co.kr www.knfc.co.kr KEPCO Engineering & Construction (E&C) was KEPCO Plant Service & Engineering (KPS) is KEPCO Nuclear Fuel is the only nuclear fuel defounded to achieve self-reliance in design techa comprehensive plant service company and sign and manufacturing company which was nology of nuclear and thermal power plants. provides high-quality maintenance services for established to localize nuclear fuel and achieve Based on safety and economy, KEPCO E&C depower plants (nuclear, thermal, hydroelectric), technology self-reliance. KEPCO Nuclear Fuel veloped Korean Standard OPR1000 and APR1400 transmission and substations, and industrial is providing nuclear fuel for all light and heavy and became a globally competitive nuclear powfacilities. KPS is responsible for commissioning water reactors in Korea and will supply fuel to er plant design company. KEPCO E&C exported maintenance of power plants under constructhe UAE nuclear power plant. It is developing 500, 800, 1,000MW standard thermal power tion, and ordinary maintenance, planned outand supplying two kinds of high-quality modified plant design technology and has competitiveage and other repair & maintenance of power nuclear fuel. High performing nuclear fuel for ness in transmission and substation, renewable plants in operation, contributing to preventing export is under development and expected for energy and project/construction project manunplanned shutdowns and improving the capaccommercial supply from 2016. agement, contributing to the enhancement of ity factor. KPS also expands its global business national energy competitiveness. in 25 countries including the U.S., Australia and Saudi Arabia. Equity share 74.86% Equity share 70.0% Equity share 96.4% KEPCO Knowledge, Data & Equity investment companies Network Co., ltd. (KDN) Address: 60 Hyoryeongro 72 gil, Seocho-gu, Seoul Employees: 1,230 Paid-in capital: 64 billion won Korea Electric www.kdn.com Power Industrial Development Korea Since KEPCO Knowledge, Data & Network (KEPCorporation Gas CO KDN) was founded as the IT provider of KEP(KEPID) Corporation CO, KDN has offered total IT services, growing into a global electric power IT company. KEPCO KDN has been mainly engaged in development/ operation of information systems, electric power 29.0% 24.5% IT, and the development and maintenance of IT infrastructure, intelligent distribution system, and information security. KEPCO KDN is now striving to enhance PLC AMIand smart distribution system to realize smart grid. Korea District Heating Corporation LG Uplus 19.6% 8.8% Equity share 100% 81 Awards and Awards received in 2012 Initiatives Date Award details Organization January 2012 No. 1 for 7 consecutive years in anti-corruption policy Anti-Corruption and Civil Rights Commission March 2012 This Year’s Project in South America in 2011 Euromoney June 2012 2012 Green Energy Award Ministry of Knowledge Economy August 2012 2012 Korea SNS Prize in public sector Korea Blog Business Association September 2012 The 38th National Quality Team Contest Gold Prize Ministry of Knowledge Economy September 2012 Minister’s Prize for performance sharing best practice Ministry of Knowledge Economy November 2012 The 4th National Green Technology Award President Prize Government November 2012 German International Invention Exhibition Gold Prize Nuremberg Invention Fair December 2012 Highest customer satisfaction level for 14 consecutive years Ministry of Strategy and Finance Major initiatives Initiative Period Transparent Society Pact signed among CEOs of 18 public corporations and Korea Independent June 2005 Commission Against Corruption Renewable Portfolio Agreement signed with the Ministry of Commerce, Energy and Industry July 2005 Agreement to comply with UN Global Compact and 10 principles August 2005 Transparent Society Pact in the Electric Power Sector with 11 KEPCO Group companies and major electric September 2005 power companies Integrity Pact between KEPCO and partner companies (1,519 companies, 18,135 persons) January 2006 Agreement with private-sector organizations on business cooperation in the area of the environment June 2007 (UNEP National Committee for Korea, Korea Green Foundation, Korea Women’s Environmental Network) Second Renewable Portpolio Agreement signed with the Ministry of Knowledge Economy July 2009 Accession to UN Global Compact in Korea December 2009 Sisterhood partnership with 36 traditional markets August 2011 Joint Agreement on Integrity and Ethical Practices of KEPCO Group companies (10 companies) June 2012 Cooperative Shared Growth Pact in the Power Equipment Sector June 2012 Select 65 power industry SMEs as KEPCO Trusted Partners July 2012 Appendices KEPCO Sustainability Report 2013 82 Association and Name Objective Date International Korean Institute of Electrical Engineers Promotion and development of academics and technology related to electrical engineering 1961 Organization Korea Standard Association Exchange of information on technological standards, including industrial standardization and quality management 1964 Memberships Korea Electric Association Promotion and development of electric industry 1965 Korean Member Committee of the Enhancement of international relationship in the energy area 1969 World Energy Council Korea Atomic Industrial Forum Exchange of nuclear technology at home and abroad 1975 Korea Electrical Engineering & Basic research and nurturing of human resources with regard to electric power 1989 Science Research Institute industry Korean Society for Quality Exchange of information among quality management organizations to improve 1995 Management quality management activities Korea Nuclear Society Technology development and academic exchange with regard to nuclear power 1995 Korean Institute of Electrical & Academic exchange and cooperation between industry and academia regarding 1996 Electronic Material Engineering electrical and electronic material engineering Cooperation among electric power companies & experts of East Asia and the AESIEAP 1998 Western Pacific Protection of the rights of US electric power companies and provision of EEI 2004 information on the electric power industry Korea New & Renewable Energy Promotion of new and renewable energy industry and information sharing 2004 Association AEIC Technological exchange among electric power companies in North America 2008 Korea Invention Promotion Exchange of needs and trends of IPR market 2009 Association Korea Smart Grid Association Smart grid information sharing and mutual cooperation 2009 Korea Nuclear Association for Export of Korean standard nuclear power plant, analysis of overseas nuclear 2011 International Cooperation trends, mutual cooperation and information sharing in the nuclear industry 1. AESIEAP: Association of the Electricity Supply Industry of East Asia and the Western Pacific 2. EEI: Edison Electric Institute 3. AEIC: Association of Edison Illuminating Companies 83 Glossary Gas Insulated Switch Gear (GIS) A complex switching device which opens or closes Electric Quality The quality of electricity provided is represented as an electric circuit which is insulated with sulfur blackout time, voltage & frequency margin and total hexafluoride (SF6) gas harmonic distortion (THD) Community Energy System (CES) Electricity Effect Valuation System A type of power business that generates electricity using A technique to select ideal sites for constructing a small-capacity generator and supplies electricity to transmission and substation facilities. Quantifies the users within the designated district directly without effect of electricity on the natural, social and technology going through the power exchange market environment by using GIS and CAD and analyzes the weighted importance of the effect. Results are rendered Base Load Generator in 3D images A generator which keeps running at a constant output due to little output adjustment according to demand Self-Sufficiency Rate control. Currently coal-fired thermal power generators KEPCO defines Self-Sufficiency Rate as the ratio of the and nuclear power generators are running as base load amount of a given fuel secured to the amount of a given generators fuel required Emissions Trading System (ETS) Ice Storage Cooling Facility The system that sets the total quantity of greenhouse An advanced cooling system that stores ice or cold water gas emissions of all advanced nations and imposes a by using off-peak electricity during the night and uses certain amount of emission quotas. Countries exceeding it for cooling during the day. Distributes the increasing the quota can purchase emission rights and those under cooling load to the night time zone and helps improve the quota can sell emissions load imbalance between day and night Load Factor Certified Emission Reduction (CER) The ratio of average power as compared with the peak CERs are carbon credits issued by the CDM Executive power during a given period. Used as the indicator Board for emission reductions achieved by CDM projects representing the efficiency of power facilities Carbon Capture and Storage CCS technology captures carbon dioxide generated from Demand Control fossil fuel before emitted into the air and apply pressure All the activities to satisfy electricity demand at a to liquefy and store. minimal cost by changing customers’ electricity use patterns. Load control and energy efficiency Clean Development Mechanism (CDM) improvement are major methods for demand control An arrangement allowing industrialized countries with a greenhouse gas reduction commitment to invest in Transmission & Distribution Loss projects that reduce emissions in developing countries Electricity loss incurred while electric power flows from as an alternative to more expensive emission reductions power plant to substation, transmission/distribution in their own countries lines, and finally point of consumption, mainly due to resistance C-km (Circuit Kilometer) Length of one cable made up of three lines. One of the Smart Grid most generally used units for the length of transmission “Smart grid” refers to an electric power grid that line incorporates information & communication technologies Energy Storage System (ESS) to maximize efficiency for greater eco-friendliness Global Compact Renewable Portfolio Agreement (RPS) UN Secretary-General Kofi Annan presented 10 universal Regulation that requires the increased production of principles in the areas of human rights, labor, the energy from renewable energy sources environment and anti-corruption, calling for business leaders to join an initiative called the Global Compact Energy Intensity aimed at promoting business transparency and Energy consumption per US$ 1,000 of GDP corporate social responsibility. The operational phase of the initiative was launched at UN Headquarters in July Electricity Reserve Rate Electric power in reserve against contingencies or to Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) meet sudden surges in electricity demand A body of the United Nations Environmental Programme in charge of developing globally applicable guidelines Greenhouse gases for sustainability reporting Elements of air generated either naturally or artificially, which may contribute to global warming when there HVDC is an excessive increase of their proportion in the High voltage direct transmission current which converts atmosphere. Refers to gases like carbon dioxide (CO2), alternating current to direct current for transmission methane (CH4), chlorofluorocarbon (CFC), nitrous oxide and converts into alternating current again for use (N2O), and sulfur hexafluoride (SF6) Appendices KEPCO Sustainability Report 2013 84 Additional All Sustainability Reports (issued from 2005) including this one and Annual Reports can be downloaded on the website of KEPCO. Additional information of the management of KEPCO is available on the websites below. Expressions such information as forecast, expect and estimate are the description of the analysis of future as of today. Therefore, for specific risk or uncertainty, please refer to Form 20-F. Classification Website Address Financial Supervisory Service’s DART Business Report dart.fss.or.kr (data analysis, retrieval and transfersystem)/company overview Form 20-F US Securities and Exchange Commission www.sec.gov Annual Report KEPCO homepage/Investor relations/management www.kepco.co.kr Statistics of Electric Power KEPCO homepage/Investor relations/Investor resources/ www.kepco.co.kr in Korea Statistics of electricity Social contribution KEPCO homepage/Sustainability www.kepco.co.kr Management Information of Public Institution Information www.alio.go.kr Public Institutions Management System, the Ministry of Strategy and Finance https://mobile.twitter.com/iamkepco https://www.facebook.com/iamkepco http://me2day.net/iamkepco Contact information For more detailed information on this report, please contact us at: 512, Yeongdong-daero, Gangnam-gu, Seoul, Korea (zip code: 135-791) Strategic Planning Team, Corporate Planning Department, KEPCO Phone: 02-3456-3523 Fax: 02-3456-3598 E-mail: ahnsunmi@kepco.co.kr Please direct your other inquiries to: Financial information: Accounting Office, Treasury Team (sks@kepco.co.kr) Ethical management: Anti-corruption Team, Audit & Inspection Office (lieutkim@kepco.co.kr) Environmental management: Green Growth Strategy Team, Technology Division (moonstar@kepco.co.kr) Social contribution: Social Contribution Team, Corporate Communications Office (kjk9780@kepco.co.kr) Reader feedback Your valuable feedback on 2013 KEPCO Sustainability Report is always welcomed to improve the quality of sustainability management and sustainability reports. Please send us your feedback by posting on KEPCO website or by e-mail/postal mail. 512, Yeongdong-daero, Gangnam-gu, Seoul 135-791, Korea Tel. +82-2-3456-3114 www.kepco.co.kr
