Esquel Group of Companies Communication on Progress – 2013 Our Commitment This year marks the start of our new journey towards sustainable development. In January 2013, we launched our very first Esquel Sustainability Council to integrate, innovate and motivate the Esquel group towards its sustainability journey. Headed by our top executives and a distinguished professor, the Council will navigate Esquel’s journey on four key areas: People, Planet, Community, and Product. In this communication on progress report, we will touch on some of our developments in sustainability. We will also report systems, activities and outcomes that demonstrate the integration of the UNGC 10 Principles into our operations. This report covers period from 1 July 2012 to 30 June 2013. Finally, same as before, we express our commitment and support to the UNGC and its 10 Principles covering human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption. 1. HUMAN RIGHTS Principle 1. Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; Principle 2. make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. We have internal Group policies and procedures that guide and control the implementation of internationally proclaimed human rights and the exclusion of abuses. The main policies and procedures are: • Esquel e-Culture. Our five e-values are: Ethics, Environment, Exploration, Excellence, and Education. It guides the way each Esquel employee thinks and acts. It also serves as the foundation of our business and the reputation of the Esquel brand. • Esquel Workplace Code of Conduct (COC). With reference to the e-Culture, our COC states our position on international human rights and sustainability standards and principles. It covers employment relationship; forced labor; child labor; harassment or abuse; non-discrimination; environment, health and safety; freedom of association and collective bargaining; Systems compensation; and hours of work. Specific policies and procedures to each principle, such as grievance mechanism, are available at each factory and at our headquarters. • Supply Chain Management. We implement our COC across our supply chain by seeking suppliers who share our values. Our Procurement policy defines our support for and adherence to fair competition and compliance with legal and ethical standards. We have also provided our suppliers with information on the workplace standards we believe in and expect to see at our supplier facilities. • CSR Internal oversight system: We have a CSR headquarter team charged with overseeing labor practices and environmental impacts throughout our operations. This internal oversight system includes, but is not limited to, reporting and tracking of various workplace activities, internal monitoring, and active follow up on areas identified as needing improvement. Further, as a Participating Supplier of the Fair Labor Association, we see to it that our systems adhere to the detailed principles outlined in the FLA Charter. 2013 Esquel Communication on Progress Page 1 of 12 Our policies and procedures are cascaded to our employees, suppliers and partners through trainings, communication, and monitoring. Some of our activities include: • FLA Accreditation. Applied for the Fair Labor Association (FLA) accreditation to verify if our systems are at par with international standards. The FLA Accreditation is by far the highest recognition in the apparel industry. Being FLA accredited will mean that one’s management systems are sufficiently effectively to ensure respect and safeguard of workers rights in line with international and local laws and regulations. • Policy Update. Updated our Workplace Code of Conduct and policies and procedures in line with the new FLA Workplace Standards. • Translation. Translated our new Code of Conduct to different languages known to our workers. Activities • Training. Provided workplace code of conduct training for all employees at all levels. • Supplier management. Enhanced our supplier selection and evaluation through our Code of Conduct. • Internal Oversight. Expanded the scope of our internal CSR oversight system on fabric mills, accessories, outsourcing factories, and suppliers. Conducted Headquarter CSR internal reviews on all apparel factories. • Higg Index. Pilot-tested the Higg Index in collaboration with the Sustainable Apparel Coalition (SAC). • P.A.C.E. Program. Rolled-out of the P.A.C.E. program to other Esquel factories. P.A.C.E. stands for Personal Advancement and Career Enhancement. It aims to equip female workers with life skills essential in adapting to society and in enhancing their efficiency in the workplace. Here are the achievements as a result of the above activities: • The FLA Board awarded us the “FLA Accreditation” in February 2013. This is an important recognition to our systems because the FLA Accredited also conveys a message that the company systems are sound and effective in respecting and safeguarding workers rights in line with international and local laws and regulations and the FLA Standards. • Completed the updating of our code of conduct in line with the FLA Code. • Translated our Code to 8 languages known to our workers. Outcomes • Trained over 50,000 employees on the Esquel workplace code through e-trainings and classroom orientations. • Fabric mills, accessories, outsourcing factories and material suppliers were made aware of Esquel’s Code of Conduct. CSR assessments were done at factory premises. • Headquarter CSR team completed internal reviews at all apparel factories. In addition, FLAappointed third-party audit firms conducted unannounced audits at randomly selected Esquel apparel factories. Esquel CSR headquarters submitted corresponding corrective action plan reports to the FLA according to agreed timelines, and monitored completion of corrective measures. • Completed Higg Index assessments at selected apparel factories. • Female workers in our China factories were trained on the P.A.C.E. program. 2013 Esquel Communication on Progress Page 2 of 12 2. LABOR Principle 3. Business should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4. the elimination of all forms of forced labor and compulsory labor Principle 5. the effective abolition of child labor; and Principle 6. the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. With 55,000 employees under our care, we understand the importance of respecting and protecting the rights of our employees. We have policies and procedures defining daily operational standards in relation to freedom of association and collective bargaining, forced labor, child labor, discrimination, harassment and abuse, and respect of employment and occupation. • Esquel e-Culture. (Refer to Section 1 on Human Rights, Systems) • Esquel Workplace Code of Conduct. (Refer to Section 1 on Human Rights, Systems) • Policies and Procedures on Human Resource Management (HR). Policies include, but not limited to: Equal Employment Opportunity, Recruiting Process, Hours of Work, Probation, Promotion, Performance Management, Termination, Retirement, Compensation and Benefits, Security & Safety, Grievances, Freedom of Association, Anti-Harassment Policy, Conflict of Systems Interest, and Training and Development. Included in our recruitment policies are age verification procedures to prevent the recruitment of child labor, and labor agent screening procedures to reduce risks associated with illegal recruitment. Further, our management is involved in detailed evaluations of labor agents in countries employing foreign workers to reduce potential recruitment problems. They also travel to the foreign workers’ country of origin to oversee the recruitment process and to ensure appropriate messages are given to the potential workers. • Policies and Procedures on Environment, Health and Safety (EHS). Policies include, but not limited to: Hazard Identification and Risk Assessment Guidelines, Accident Investigation Guidelines, Emergency Preparedness Guidelines, Safety Signs and Usage, Personal Protective Equipment Guidelines, Occupational Health Management, and Chemical Storage Management. • CSR Internal oversight system: (Refer to Section 1 on Human Rights, Systems) 2013 Esquel Communication on Progress Page 3 of 12 With over 20 factories worldwide, we have dedicated teams at each site overseeing and managing human resources and environment, health and safety issues. Here is a selected list of our implementation activities in addition to activities listed under “Human Rights”: • Integration. Integrated applicable international and local laws and regulations to company policies and procedures on HR and EHS. • Re-certification. Re-certified factories on WRAP and ISO standards. • CSR Conference 2013. Effective communication and employee training are keys to success in our CSR work. In May 2013, we held our 3rd CSR conference in Hong Kong, under the theme of “Inspire Innovation.” The conference served some 40 CSR practitioners from various Esquel factories, as well as from our customers. We had guest speakers from NGOs, Risk assessing companies and in-house experts. In addition, we launched our new code of conduct through an innovation contest. Participants were given the opportunity to take part in different activity based learning during the conference and lastly, they were given souvenir shirts on “Inspire Innovation” to remind them of our strategy to drive CSR in our company. • Fire Safety Olympics. To enhance a fire safety awareness of all employees, our factories held its first Fire Safety Olympics in Gaoming, China. Most of our Gaoming employees attended the event. The event included games like putting off fire, fire evacuation, and safety quizzes. In addition, we also designed and printed fire safety postcards for employees to send to their families and friends. • Training programs. People development is the heart of our people strategy. Trainings are strategically planned and executed both at headquarter and local levels. Headquarter Training Activities & Development organized around 100 training programs for management staff. These trainings (number of trainings in parenthesis) include: on-boarding trainings (4), management trainings (43), technical trainings (16), fun-&-learns (16), line reviews (9), on boarding programs (4), and factory and company visits (5). Factory Training & Development teams conducted on-boarding trainings to all employees which include the Esquel Code of Conduct, Company History, policies and procedures and grievance mechanism, among others. • Trainer Appreciation Award 2012. To continuously acknowledge the contribution of our employees from non-training functions, we held our annual Trainer Appreciation Awards. This award aims to appreciate employees who devoted time and effort to lead and organize learning activities which drive knowledge sharing and continuous learning. They are also our “Continuous Learning Ambassadors.” This year, we are proud to recognize 7 Honorable Star Trainers, 44 Outstanding Trainers, and 43 Outstanding Management Trainee Mentors and Coaches, who have contributed to the Education e-culture. • Worker Engagement Activities. All Esquel factories organized various employee events to further our employee engagement and development. Some examples are: the International Women’s Day, Children’s Day, Mini-library, Employees’ Fun Day, and Workers’ Celebration Day, children's day, World environment day, Earth hour, EHS week, Health promotional campaigns and motivational speeches for employees. Special activities were organized to recognize and reward various talents of employees through the “super talent competition’ & most courageous women competition held for women’s day commemoration. • Worker-Management Communication Activities. All our factories has worker-management communication systems which consist of trade unions, grievance mechanism, and committees which ensures that we are continuously connecting and listening to our employees 2013 Esquel Communication on Progress Page 4 of 12 Highlights of our achievements are as follows: POLICIES & SYSTEMS • HR policies were updated according to local government new regulations and the FLA Benchmarks. • EHS policies and procedures were updated also in line with applicable standards. • All policies were made accessible to employees through the company intranet, bulletin board and orientations. • All factories renewed their certifications on ISO 9001, ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001 as applicable. TRAININGS • Completed the CSR Conference which trained 40 CSR practitioners and communicated our CSR best practices to customers. Outcomes • Completed the trainer appreciation award which recognized 94 in-house part-time trainers. • Completed the Fire Safety Olympics which communicated safety measures to at least 10,000 employees, not counting the postcards that were sent out. • Completed trainings on updated HR and EHS policies to all concerned employees. • Completed machine safety, ergonomics and related technical trainings and refresher trainings for workers. • Completed annual occupational health examinations for concerned workers. WORKER-MANAGEMENT COMMUNICATION • Conducted meetings on trade union matters and negotiations with legally recognized trade unions in our factories. • All factories organized various employee relations events and activities such as International Women’s Day, Earth Day, Children’s Day, Mini-library, Employees’ Fun Day, and Workers’ Celebration Day, motivational lectures for employees 2013 Esquel Communication on Progress Page 5 of 12 3. ENVIRONMENT Principle 7. Business should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8. undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9. encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Green manufacturing can be traced at every step of our operations, from cotton farming to spinning, weaving, dyeing, knitting, and apparel and accessories production. Our guiding principles and measures are stated in the following policies: • Esquel e-Culture. (Refer to Section 1 on Human Rights, Systems) • Esquel Workplace Code of Conduct. (See section 1, Human Rights, Systems) Systems • Policies and Procedures on Environmental Management. Some of the environmental policies are: Environmental Management System Audits, Control of Treated Water and Chemicals in the Waste Water Treatment Plant, Environmental Management Review, and Environmental Training. All policies are drafted in line with ISO 14001 and ISO 14064 guidelines. • CSR Internal oversight system: (Refer to Section 1 on Human Rights, Systems) • Research & Development. Our R&D systems are engineered to ensure that we are always one step ahead of competition in terms of quality, innovation and design. Part of this system is the certification on of our products on internationally recognized eco-friendly standards. Highlights of our environmental initiatives are as follows: • Re-certification of factories on ISO standards. • Completed the SAC Higg index on all garment factories. • Environmental awareness trainings. • Sustainable farming through: organic cotton cultivation, natural pest control utilization, handpicked cotton process, drip irrigation method. • Energy saving measures through: installation of frequency inverters, use of energy efficient lighting, installation of skylights, installation of water curtains, steam powered air-conditioning Activities system, and turbo-dyeing. • Emissions control through: wholly-owned thermal power plant and desulfurization of waste lye. • Water conservation initiatives through waste water treatment plant, cold pad batch pretreatment and dyeing technology, recycling condensed and cooling water, green washing, wet processing center innovation, low temperature pre-treatment technology, heat exchange system for waste water, and low liquid ratio dyeing. • Research with Nano technology institute of Sri Lanka for waste water treatment using Nano technology • Research and development of innovative green products and product certifications • Tree-planting activities in selected sites 2013 Esquel Communication on Progress Page 6 of 12 Main achievements in the reporting year include: SYSTEMS • The environmental management system of our factories in China, Sri Lanka, Mauritius, Malaysia and Vietnam were all certified under ISO 14001. • Our facilities in China Gaoming have been certified under ISO 14064 to track and setup plans to reduce greenhouse gases (GHGs) emission. • We were awarded the Green Enterprises Award in 2011. • Esquel has received the Hangseng Pearl River Delta Environmental Award – Silver Award in 2012 and Bronze Award in 2011. • Esquel has appointed independent 3rd party to conduct a comprehensive environmental assessment for the fabric mills under the NGO – IPE’s supervision and participation in late 2012. • Headquarter CSR worked with the factories to complete SAC HIGG Index environmental index for all factories. TRAINING • In addition to the trainings listed in Sections 1 (Human Rights) and 2 (Labor), all our factories completed environmental awareness campaigns like tree planting, tree donations, and green living. SUSTAINABLE FARMING • The use of natural pest control helped reduced pesticide consumption by 20-30%. • Drip irrigation method reduced water consumption by 20%. Outcomes • Our sustainable farming initiatives resulted to increase in cotton yield, and in farmers’ income and quality of life. ENERGY SAVING • Esquel has appointed independent consultant Honeywell to conduct an energy audit for the Esquel facilities in China Gaoming in early 2013. • Overall annual energy consumption fell by 42% from 2005 to 2011, which is about 184 million kWh savings per year, or equivalent to energy needs of 92,000 families. This initiative also led to a reduction of 269,000 tons of harmful greenhouse gases. • Installation of frequency inverters resulted to 30% reduction in energy consumption; • Factories and offices replaced over 56,000 light tubes with high efficiency fluorescent light tubes and reflectors, resulting to 50% savings on light tubes. • Installation of skylights made possible for our factories to use more natural lights, thereby reducing reliance on energy and electricity. • Installation of water curtains at factories resulted to better ventilation and cooling, and 80% reduction in electricity consumption. • Use of steam powered air-conditioning systems resulted to 80% reduction in electricity. • Turbo-dyeing of cotton and yarn saved 8 million kWh of energy. EMISSIONS CONTROL • Wholly-owned and operated thermal power plant led to enhanced energy efficiency and reduced carbon dioxide emissions. • De-sulfurization of waste lye led to reduction in sulfur dioxide emissions by 600 tons per year; • The boiler system in one garment factory at Yang Mei has switched the fuel use from diesel to a much more eco-friendly biofuel to greatly improve the air emission quality. • Deodorization system was installed at the wholly-owned wastewater treatment plant to minimize the odor generated during the wastewater treatment process. 2013 Esquel Communication on Progress Page 7 of 12 WATER CONSERVATION • Overall water consumption fell by 54% from 2005 to 2011, which is equivalent to 7.4 million tons of water, sufficient to meet the needs of 37,000 households. • Waste water treatment plant neutralizes 32,000 tons of waste water from mills and factories. • A wastewater recycling program have been started since 2012 to recycle 5,000 tons of treated wastewater per day into operation use through advanced ultra-filtration and reverse osmosis technology. There is plan to eventually expand the program to recycle 20,000 tons of treated wastewater per day. • Cold pad batch pre-treatment and dyeing technology resulted to 70% reduction in water and 80% reduction in energy consumption. • Recycling of condensed and cooling water from dyeing and finishing operations led to savings of 2.2 million tons of water and 100,000 tons of steam. • Processes on apparel treatment, pre-treatment and finishing were changed to use ecologically advanced and bio-degradable products only. • Wet processing center recycled water in the apparel washing process up to 5 times. • Low temperature pre-treatment technology for cotton bleaching resulted to 45% reduction in water, 49% reduction in steam, and 42% reduction in electricity used. • Adaption of heat exchange technology for waste water reduced steam consumption by 36,000 tons annually. • Use of low liquid ratio dyeing technology led to annual savings of 1.2 million tons of water, 46,000 tons of steam, and 9.7 million kWh of energy. INNOVATIVE GREEN PRODUCTS • Our products were certified on: (1) OE Blended & OE 100 Standards of The Organic Exchange, (2) Global Organic Textile Standard, (3) Oeko-Tex Standard 1000, and (4) Global Recycle Standard • Wrinkle-free shirts. These shirts eliminate the need for ironing. • PerformanceCareTM shirts. Shirts with this trademark take pride in its durability as compared to ordinary cotton shirt. • Elemental textile. A successful collaboration with Novozymes (a company specializing in biotechnology), elemental textile is the only textile that uses substantially less water, emits less carbon dioxide in the process of manufacture, and consumes significantly less processing time. An ideal fabric for green living and green fashion. 2013 Esquel Communication on Progress Page 8 of 12 4. ANTI-CORRUPTION Principle 10. Business should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery At Esquel, we place great emphasis on ethical behavior. All Esquel employees are expected to maintain an impeccable ethical behavior under all circumstances. Policies related to anticorruption are: • Esquel e-Culture. (Refer to Section 1 on Human Rights, Systems) Systems • Esquel Workplace Code of Conduct. (Refer to Section 1, Human Rights, Systems) • HR Policies. Acceptance of Advantages and Conflict of Interest. • Supply Chain Management. (Refer to Section 1, Human Rights, Systems) • CSR Internal oversight system: (Refer to Section 1 on Human Rights, Systems) A list of selected activities is as follows: • Activities e-Culture trainings given to all employees. • Headquarter internal audit and CSR teams conducted internal reviews on business transactions and operations. Audit reports were sent to senior management for review and remediation. Some of our achievements are: Outcomes • Completed internal audits on all selected factories and offices. • Completed CSR internal reviews on all garment factories, selected fabric mills, accessories, and outsourcing factories. 2013 Esquel Communication on Progress Page 9 of 12 5. CROSSCUTTING: ENGAGEMENT & TRANSPARENCY We want to be an agent of positive change in our industry and in the communities where we operate. As a result, we actively seek and engage reputable organizations on the topic of corporate sustainability. This section presents some of our partner organizations and achievements realized through collaborative efforts. LABOR 5.1 Fair Labor Association (http://www.fairlabor.org/) The Fair Labor Association is a non-profit organization seeking to combine efforts of companies, civil society organizations, colleges and universities to protect workers’ rights and improve working conditions of factories worldwide by promoting adherence to international labor standards. We are a Participating Supplier (PS) affiliate of the FLA since 2008. As a PS, we have worked with the FLA in the development and refinement our Workplace Code of Conduct, our internal oversight system, and our public reporting. We have also had FLA assessors at our factories to conduct unannounced audits. Following each audit, we have submitted corrective action plan reports and have conducted our own follow-up reviews. Our affiliation with the FLA drives our commitment to continuous improvement and transparency. The FLA publicly posts our list of factories and any audits they conduct on their website. In February 2013, the FLA Board voted in approval of the accreditation of our systems. This accreditation acknowledges the effectiveness of our systems to ensure respect and protection of workers rights in relation to international and local laws, regulations and standards. 5.2 Better Work Vietnam (http://www.betterwork.org/sites/VietNam/English/Pages/index.aspx) Better Work Vietnam (BWV) is a part of the Better Work global program, which is a partnership between the International Labor Organization (ILO) and the International Finance Cooperation (IFC). It aims to improve working conditions and promote competitiveness in Vietnam’s apparel industry through multi-stakeholder engagement and factory development programs. We are continuously participating in and working with BWV. As of the writing of this report, we have 3 factories in Vietnam that are members of BWV. They work with Better Work assessors and assist them in their factory audits, meetings and activities. In addition, our Headquarter CSR team also hosted one of the BWV meetings here in Hong Kong. We believe our partnership with BWV will not only lead to the continuous improvement in workplace conditions, it will also enable greater competitiveness in Vietnam’s apparel industry. 5.3 P.A.C.E (Personal Advancement & Career Enhancement) (http://www.bewhatspossible.com/pace) P.A.C.E is a female garment worker-focused initiative founded and funded by Gap Inc. P.A.C.E. focuses on enhancing life skills of female garment workers through series of trainings and activities. In 2010, Esquel joined force with P.A.C.E. and its partner organizations, namely, Swasti, ICRW (International Center for Research on Women) and Beijing Qianqian Law Firm, to pilot and launch the program in our selected site in China. Our female workers were equipped with an array of life skills, including, time and stress management, communication, legal and financial literacy, problem solving 2013 Esquel Communication on Progress Page 10 of 12 and decision making skills, enabling them to fulfill their responsibilities both at home and in the workplace. 5.4 HERproject (Health Enables Returns) (http://herproject.org/) Sponsored by J. Crew, Esquel launched HERproject, in collaboration with BSR (Business Social Responsibilities) and Maria Stopes China, in our factory in Changzhou this 2012. This women’s health-focused, peer education program has come to its 6th year, benefitting more than hundreds and thousands of female workers worldwide. 5.5 The Employers Federation of Ceylon (http://www.employers.lk) The EFC is the largest employers' organization in Sri Lanka. Its membership of some 525 companies represents an employee base of over 440,000 people. EFC is part of the ILO Global Business and Disability Network The Employers' Federation of Ceylon (EFC) established the Employers' Network on Disability to promote the employment of people with disabilities within the Sri Lankan business community in 2000. Esquel Sri Lanka operations joint hands with EFC in the Disability networking event in 2008 and since then increased the number of disable employment in the manufacturing plants in Sri Lanka. ENVIRONMENT 5.6 Sustainable Apparel Coalition (http://www.apparelcoalition.org/) Esquel shares the vision of sustainable operations which affect positive change on people, the environment, and the community. Being a founding circle member of the Sustainable Apparel Coalition (SAC), we collaborate with leading apparel and footwear companies and social and environmental organizations to address challenges and maximize opportunities in the industry. Our goal is to develop ONE system to measure sustainability throughout the supply chain. Since 2010, we have contributed to the development of the SAC index (now called the Higgs Index) through working groups, discussions, reviews and testing of the SAC index in our factories. 5.7 The Institute of Public and Environmental Affairs (http://www.http://www.ipe.org.cn/) The Institute of Public and Environmental Affairs (IPE) is a non-profit organization based in Beijing. It monitors environmental performance of companies and facilitates public participation in environmental governance. The IPE’s database enables visibility into the environmental performance of factories in China. Esquel is in partnership with the IPE through their Green Choice Alliance program. We access their database to evaluate suppliers and to drive improvements in our supply chain. 5.8 Natural Resources Defense Council (http://www.nrdc.org) The Natural Resources Defense Council (NRDC) is one of the most prominent environmental action groups headquartered in New York. We support them by providing information and assistance to 2013 Esquel Communication on Progress Page 11 of 12 their research work. An example of our collaboration with the NRDC is the published study entitled, “NRDC’s Ten Best Practices for Textile Mills to Save Money and Reduce Pollution.” 5.9 National Cleaner Production Center of Sri Lanka (http://www.ncpcsrilanka.org) The National Cleaner Production Centre (NCPC) is the foremost Cleaner Production solutions provider in Sri Lanka. The centre was established by UNIDO under the Ministry of Industry and Commerce to assist enterprises in adopting Cleaner Production (CP). Founded in early 2002, the centre has over ten years of experience promoting Cleaner Production and resource efficiency in various industrial and non-industrial sectors in the country. NCPC is a member of the UNIDO/UNEP Global Network of Cleaner Production Centres and is also a member of the Resource Efficient and Cleaner Production Network (RECP.Net). Esquel Sri Lanka operations join with NCPC in late 2012 for assessing and implementing cleaner production concepts in the manufacturing process. End of Report 2013 Esquel Communication on Progress Page 12 of 12
