COMMUNICATON ON PROGRESS Implementing UN global compact principles in Scanjet Marine AB 2013 1. Introduction I am pleased to confirm that Scanjet Marine AB reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labor, Environment and Anti Corruption. In this our second annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to integrate the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. Yours sincerely Niklas Falkmer _____________________ Managing Director 2. Scanjet Marine AB Scanjet Marine AB is an experienced supplier of tank management equipment including tank level gauging and well known for being the world’s leading producer of tank cleaning equipment and anti-pirate water cannons. The leading product range for marine and offshore applications For any marine and offshore application, Scanjet Marine, part of Scanjet group design and produce a full range of fixed and portable tank cleaning equipment, marine protection systems (anti-pirate water cannons), as well as together with the group ,high level alarms, vapour emission control systems and tank level gauging equipment suiting any type and size of tank using alternative technologies. After sales and Service Scanjet can provide users with a skilled and efficient worldwide network of sales and service representatives. Service kits are rapidly available and easy to order. Spare parts are produced in our own Scanjet factories and are available within 24 hours. Legally, Scanjet is governed by a Board of Directors. With a deputy council and in communication with the Board they jointly formulate Scanjet´s political views. Members of the Council are elected by the board of Directors wich include the owners. The Managing Director and management oversee the daily activities of the 66 employees and co-ordinates the activities of the number of network groups linked to Scanjet Marine and Scanjet group. Our leading position in the market enable us with the power to change and implement our initiatives, not only internally within our own organisation, but also globally to ensure that our network understand the UNs basic principles. 3. Our approach to the 10 principles In the autumn of 2011 Scanjet Marine AB signed up for the UN Global Compact program. At that point we could define a number of stakeholders which were sorted to the main three following areas. These were: • People (employees and members) • Society (locally) • Society (globally) In this connection we decided to implement our initiatives in two stages. The first stage would thus concentrate on implementing initiatives within the organization to ensure that all members of staff understood UNs basic principles and ensure the willingness to implement sustainable solutions throughout the organization. The second stage would hereafter be directed at initiatives outside the secretariat, first towards our members, and later toward society, locally and finally globally. To make sure that all initiatives were employee borne, we made it a point in the existing steering committee of the company, which became responsible for choosing and implementing the internal initiatives within stage one. Now, as of autumn 2013 this is maintained as part of daily work. Our approach concerns the ten principles : Human Rights • Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and • Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Labour • Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; • Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; • Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and • Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Environment • Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; • Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and • Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Anti-Corruption • Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. HUMAN RIGHTS ANTI-CORRUPTION ENVIRONMENT LABOUR 4. Contents of Scanjet Marine CSR policy – year two The first set of CSR initiatives, which made sense in the context of our organization, has been initiatives concerning labor (employee rights) and environment. A continious monitoring of the initiatives have been performed since the first COP, see further point 4.3. 4.1 The environment The environmental impact of our business association and our possibilities for reducing the carbon footprint is smaller in scale than in many other industries. Even so, we find that it is important to be aware and do something about the things and areas we can affect. We have therefore adopted a greener working policy, in which environmental considerations are essential. By this reason, all new printers, consume con¬siderably less power than old equipment , and the supplies are sustainable. This applies not only to consumption but also disposal and transport of packaging. By centralizing and optimizing our document systems we have decreased our paper consumption and the excess disposal of such is now performed in recyclable ways. With regards to lighting, we chose low-energy solutions wherever possible, buying energy efficient light bulbs. All computers and network are modern and energy efficient with centralized storage and in addition to the mentioned we have installed new telephone systems in order to reduce CO2 emissions from travelling. Company cars where needed, are purchased with environmental impact in mind. Brand is chosen thoroughly in terms of lower emission abilities towards other brands, where also such things as usage frequency and designated location is taken in to consideration. We have this past year also continued the project with decreasing emisions together with one of the group companies wich rapidly decrease emissions and pollutive substances in our product area and segment of expertese. Goals We wish to continue to find areas where we can reduce our CO2 emissions, one area is to optimize our product development and manufacturing to decrease environmental and energy impacts although already low due to proactive measures. How do we monitor and evaluate performances The steering committee regularly informs the organization, which and if initiatives have been initiated through teh company newsletter that reaches all employees. 4.2 The working environment and health of the employees Scanjet Marine AB believes that all employees have the right to individual freedom of expression and opinion. This is upheld by regular meetings between management and employee groups and bimonthly office meetings. We also have a highly developed intranet where all employees have access to the latest information regarding working laws, rights and health directives set by the Swedish government. In addition to this, all employee positions have written job descriptions and annual meetings is performed where this is tracked to find deviations where descriptions and communication may be unclear, or whether improvements can be implemented for the general happiness of the employees. The data collected from employee interviews and surveys, where such things as information to the employees is measured, or whether the information flow is sufficient within the organization is continuously presented to concerned director for initial action, responsible director for human resources matters reports this information directly to the board for matters that require immediate action, action that has been taken throughout the year and requested non implemented action. In line with our written HSE policy we try to find , prevent or improve any deviations to the same. Part of our ISO system and quality handbook we conduct work place assessment, which showed a few areas of employee discontent. The findings were acted upon immediately to improve the satisfaction of the employees. In having a good working environment, lies also having good health. A bad working environment affects the health of the individual and vice versa – and both have an impact on employee wellbeing and motivation. Some of the initiatives we have implemented thus aim at promoting and protecting our employees’ physical wellbeing. The employee rights therefore include ergonomic work place assessment, fresh fruit, and health inspections of the employees by consultant doctors. We also occasionally perform team building events. Possibilities to influenza vaccinations, massage, and annual sports and social activities is of course independently used but means for this is provided within the organization for those who such wishes. Goals It is our goal to have a high rate of employee satisfaction and low sickness absence. Monitoring and evaluating performances Constant dialogue with the employees is deemed the best way of securing a good working environment and preventing stress. The management therefore has a responsibility of monitoring the employees wellbeing, both on a regular basis and annually where all employees is given additional time to express their view upon the organization privately with a responsible person ,separated from the person that regularly performs such tasks so that all employees can discuss topics freely without pressure of retaliation or stress. 4.3 Measurements and outcome As the points three and four was important for us from the start we have monitored the organisation as well as taken our responcibility towards the environment which resulted in a new more environmentally friendly product now released on the market, majorly decreasing emissions and need of energy for our field of engineering and clients which was one of our goals in the first COP. Information and questions regarding the new product can be sent to us, it will however not be a part of the COP as the intention is not to be a forum of promotion, but what we conclude is that our environmental goal was reached and exceeded by far. We have also monitored the employees satisfaction with the company since the latest COP on the subjects as follows. Note that the digit after each listed subject is presented in the diagram below. * Management (1) * Effectiveness / Guidance (2) * Information (3) * Development (4) * Cooperation (5) * Communication with for the employee, closest manager or supervisor (6) * Personal development dialogue (7) * Working environment / happiness (8) The data presented as a diagram in 4.3.1 was collected via questionaires by for its purpose designed third party HSE software (specifically for measuring HSE points). The data collected has been anonymously given by the employees, point based, the values below is a product of a great number of sub questions (span from 1 to 5 where 5 is total satisfaction or 100%). LEVEL OF SATISFACTION 5 4.5 4 3.5 3 Previous year Current Year 2.5 Average 2 1.5 1 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 SUBJECTS MEASURED DIAGRAM 4.3.1 OVERALL SATISFACTION OF EMPLOYEES The conclusion is that we have a high level of satisfaction, in many cases more than 80% of maximum value of the questionaires, where the percentage is to be seen as an index figure between years. If we had only considered this data as a thermometer of happiness only a less than maximum happy figure would lead to immediate actions and wich for an unexperienced reader would look strange, the diagram is to be seen as a HSE index for our company specifically and it it is a high value overall. In addition to the above we have also collected similar data from our clients and the outcome is as positive where the sales department and HSE cooperates continiously for a good relation towards our clients. We have as part of the supplier assessment program for our company not found any deviation from the ten principles since the latest COP (this also applies to the whole chain of work, no matter if it is a client, sub contractor employee or supplier). 5. Future initiatives In 2013 and 2014 our focus will be further directed towards our own organisation but also towards our suppliers that yet have not joined Global compact where applicable. We are planning to continue with: • Advicing our suppliers to register within the global compact framework • Encourage equal opportunities in recruitment, training and promotion, especially for female applicants. • Actively inspire our staff to give advice where needed to other organizations and employees on Corporate Social Responsibility issues , in order to increase general awareness. • Inspire our product development teams to implement environmentally friendly solutions where applicable. • Perform further HSE related activities for the employees in order to keep and further raise the high happiness with the company where possible Scanjet Group provide responsible and innovative tank cleaning solutions and products for the marine and industrial industries. As well as being a world leader in this field, Scanjet Group also produce state of the art products and services such as Level Gauging Equipment, High Level Overfill Alarms, Vapour Emission Control Systems. The Scanjet Group also provide industrial, offshore and marine engineering design services.
