Progress Report 2012 The LEGO Group LEGO® bricks On average Laid end to Connecting produced in every person end... with the LEGO 2012 on earth owns Group 45.7 billions 86 3.4 million Facebook 5.2 ‘Likes‘ LEGO® bricks millions/hour x18 25 million YouTube video views 87 ...the number of 4.6 LEGO® bricks sold in 2012 would reach more than 18 times around million LEGO® thousands/min. the world Club members Contents Introducing the LEGO Group Outside the LEGO Group 7 The LEGO Group 120 In dialogue with the world 14 Sustainability – the LEGO® way – how we listen and respond 29 Letter from Jørgen Vig Knudstorp, 135 Issues in a global supply chain – our approach CEO of the LEGO Group 149 Playing it forward supporting our communities 153 Philanthropic outreach – access to quality play and learning for children 2012 Progress 38 Highlights 42 The value of play and learning Performance and compliance 47 Respectful collaboration 165 Governance 172 2012 performance data The brick 182 The LEGO Group’s policies, positions and 59 Playing safe – the safety of our bricks strategies 73 Sustainable parts – the environmental impact of 183 About the report our bricks 185 Assurance statement 188 Global Reporting Initiative and United Nations Making LEGO® play materials Global Compact compliance table 91 Sustainable production – reducing the impact of making LEGO® bricks 103 Safe workplaces – the health & safety of LEGO® employees If you would like to read the LEGO Progress Report 2012 from a GRI perspective, 109 Smart people – smart products please go to Global Reporting Initiative and United Nations Global Compact – the LEGO Group and its people compliance table at page 188 Introducing the LEGO Group The LEGO Group In the LEGO Group everything is about making children’s play with LEGO® toys as positive an experience as possible. We believe this is best done through high-quality products. The founder of the company Ole Kirk Kristiansen was determined that his company should always provide children with products where; ‘Only the best is good enough’. We still live by this creed. It is our mission to ‘Inspire and develop the builders of tomorrow’ – a reflection of our fundamental belief in the value of play and learning in society and for children in particular. Through this mission we serve the company’s ultimate purpose to inspire and develop children to think creatively, reason systematically and work collaboratively to Introducing the LEGO Group 7 release their potential to shape their own future. As a consequence of this it is natural for us to stand up for, and ensure, children’s right to play. The LEGO Group makes play experiences for children of all ages The range of products that the LEGO Group brings to the market is very broad and varied, building on the diversity, creativity and imagination of the consumers we serve. Our products range from the LEGO® DUPLO® range of pre-school products, the iconic brick in all its colours and sizes, play themes such as LEGO Friends, LEGO Technic and LEGO City, licensed themes developed with partners such as Star Wars and a series of licensed products including books, video games, storage solutions, apparel, bags, stationery and smaller accessories. For the older child and adults we market LEGO Technic, LEGO MINDSTORMS and exclusive collectors’ items. To complete the LEGO® world we have also designed board games and digital games built on the LEGO® idea of playful learning, to establish a bridge between the physical and digital world. Our financial performance 2012 marks the eighth consecutive year of growth for the LEGO Group, with sales of LEGO products growing considerably all over the world. The LEGO Group’s revenue increased by 25% in 2012 to DKK 8 The LEGO Group Progress Report 2012 23,405 million, and profit before tax amounted to Financial Highlights DKK 7,522 million in 2012. The LEGO Group LEGO® market position Today, the LEGO Group has a global market share of 8.6% which is an increase of 1.5 point compared to last year. We regard growth as the result of our (mDKK) 2012 2011 2010 constant focus on quality consumer experiences Revenue 23,405 18,731 16,014 and a way to inform us of how well we live up to our values. We want consumers to have a play experience which delivers satisfaction beyond Expenses (15,453) (13,065) (10,899) what they had expected whenever and wherever they interact with the LEGO Group or one of our Operating profit 7,952 5,666 4,973 products. We plan to continue the strategy of striving to be the best and not necessarily the biggest toy Financial income (430) (124) (84) manufacturer. Read more about our 2012 financial and expenses performance in the LEGO Group Annual Report. The LEGO Group in the world Profit before 7,522 5,542 4,889 • Our Headquarters: Billund, Denmark income tax • Concept and product development: Denmark, Germany, China and the USA Net profit for the year 5,613 4,160 3,718 • Own production: Denmark, Czech Republic, Hungary and Mexico The above financial indicators are taken from the LEGO Group’s Annual • A small part of production is sourced from external Report. The complete Annual Report can be found at www.lego.com suppliers, mainly Asian • No. of employees at 31.12.2012: 12,264 10 The LEGO Group Progress Report 2012 Introducing the LEGO Group 11 When it all began in 1932 1958 The first LEGO® brick is introduced 1974 The LEGO Group adds figures to the and children can now enjoy a new type play experience and personality is now of play and learning experience a vital part of learning 1932 Ole Kirk Kristiansen, a Danish joiner and 1980 LEGO Education begins to develop 1997 The first computer game is launched carpenter, begins making wooden toys and publicise teaching materials and a digital era for the LEGO Group to support the play and learning has begun experience with LEGO products Sustainability important role in the town’s life and development from a village of three houses and a general store – the LEGO® way in the 1930s to a town of approximately 30,000 people today. As the company grew out of a small, rural society, the sense of community and obligation was there from birth and inherited by all later generations. However, as we become a global player in the toy industry, and as stakeholder expectations and demands increase, we understand that a more formalised approach to corporate responsibility and citizenship is necessary. This led to the LEGO Group signing the United Nations Global Compact in 2003. The LEGO Group strives to address its 10 principles, as In the LEGO Group we want to leave a positive reflected in this progress report. impact – for both our stakeholders and the wider community. We are committed to caring for the The LEGO Group’s promises society that children will inherit and to inspire and In 2008 we defined four key promises to our main enable them to build the society of tomorrow. stakeholders. Now, and in the future, these set the direction for everything we do when it comes to our This is how we describe our intent to integrate sustainability efforts and business in general. sustainability in our business, namely as a core part of our business strategy. Our efforts in support of The four promises as defined in the LEGO® Brand sustainability must be integrated in the way we run Framework: our business – ‘the LEGO® way’, where only the best is good enough. Play Promise: Joy of building, Pride of creation We want children of all ages to experience joy and Our approach to sustainability grows out of Billund, pride when exploring their creative potential with Denmark. This is where our founder Ole Kirk our products and services. We want parents to be Kristiansen set up his company and played an certain that the playful learning experience their 14 The LEGO Group Progress Report 2012 Introducing the LEGO Group 15 children have will develop the skills and confidence The four promises of the that will prepare them for the future. LEGO® Brand Framework Planet Promise: Positive impact We want to leave a positive impact in the world – be it in respect to our stakeholders or to the wider community. We are dedicated to improving the society our children will come to live in, and for them to build on. Partner Promise: Mutual value creation We want to ensure that it is a rewarding experience Mission Inspire and develop the builders of tomorrow for both the partner and the LEGO Group to work Vision Inventing the future of play together, whether the partner is a customer, business Play Promise Partner Promise partner or supplier. Joy of building. Pride of creation Mutual value creation Promises Planet Promise People Promise People Promise: Succeed together Positive impact Succeed together We want employees to experience the strong Spirit Only the best is good enough sense of purpose, spirit and collaboration, Imagination Creativity Fun Values creative adventure and execution excellence that Learning Caring Quality characterise the LEGO Group at our very best. We want people and our company to succeed together. To make a positive impact in line with our Planet Promise, we pay special attention to three focus areas: Pioneer Safety, Support Children’s right to grow, and Care for Nature, where the Respectful Stakeholder Dialogue underscores all of them. Tangible targets ensure we can manage our direction and accomplish the goals set for the company by 2015 and beyond. 16 The LEGO Group Progress Report 2012 Introducing the LEGO Group 17 The LEGO Group’s Planet Promise permanent target. Pioneering safety for employees – Positive Impact is an ambition which will place us among the ‘top 10 companies globally’ with an injury rate of only 0.6 per million working hours in 2015. The vision is always to Planet Promise Positive impact strive for zero injuries. In 2012, we reduced the rate from 2.1 to 1.9 but regrettably did not reach our safety Support Children’s target of 1.8. However, we are confident that we are on Pioneer Safety Care for Nature right to grow the right journey with regard to workplace safety, as we witness a constant decline in our safety statistics. Respectful Stakeholder Dialogue In line with the implementation of our ‘Care for Nature’ Planet Promise, our long term ambition is to generate enough renewable energy to balance The LEGO® play and learning experience is in its our ongoing energy needs. We have done this simplest form about using logic and reasoning, by working hard to improve our energy efficiency along with imagination and having fun. We and through our parent company, investing in new demonstrate our support to children’s development wind capacity. We are progressing as planned with through the number of children that we reach. By the commissioning of a wind park, which will be 2015 we want to reach 100 million children through operational by 2014/2015. The investment by KIRKBI sales, and 1 million children through philanthropy. A/S will certify that by 2020 we will balance our Since 2009, 600,000 schoolchildren have been energy consumption. Our zero waste ambition is a involved in learning with LEGO products through the long-term commercially driven ambition which we are LEGO Foundation Care for Education programme, constantly advancing towards while simultaneously and 350,000 children received product donations investigating the feasibility of reaching. In 2012 we through LEGO Charity in 2012 alone. achieved our goal of a recycling rate of 88%. Safety is important to us and it is in our culture. Respectful stakeholder dialogue To excel in the field of toy safety it is an ongoing Our company seeks a respectful stakeholder target to produce the highest quality of safe dialogue. Respectful in the sense that we aim to be products – zero product recalls is a key target for transparent, open and honest on issues that matter the LEGO Group. In 2012, we also accomplished this to our stakeholders. Children are the single most 18 The LEGO Group Progress Report 2012 Introducing the LEGO Group 19 important group for us to be in dialogue with. We do this in various ways to learn everything we can about The eight most material topics their play wishes, expectations and ways of learning. And part of our brand experience is interacting with the brand and company as a customer, supplier or employee. We work actively in ongoing relationships with numerous toy industry associations, media, local • product safety communities, interest groups and trade associations to keep developing our company and the industry • the play and learning towards making a greater positive impact. And we experience children get from take part in single-issue debates that we find to be relevant for children and our products. our products, services and operations The issues that matter to our stakeholders We know that each and every day – through our • the play and learning products, services, play experiences and our experience children get from business operations – we have an impact on children. We want this impact to be a positive one, leaving our product received through children stronger and more resilient worldwide. As a philanthropy consequence, we in the LEGO Group must work with issues that are material to our stakeholders. The eight • employee safety most material topics were arrived at using a five-step evaluation of materiality linked to the stakeholder • anti-corruption engagement standard AA1000. • respectful dialogue As part of our work to develop the second-generation of our sustainability ambition, we are planning a new • climate change and process of engaging stakeholders to review the material issues for the LEGO Group in 2013. • waste 20 The LEGO Group Progress Report 2012 Staying sustainable – an interview with the owner In 2012, the LEGO Group continued its focus on sustainability. Kjeld Kirk Kristiansen represents the third generation of the family-owned company, and he answered a few questions on the topic. How can the LEGO Group make a positive impact in the world? “I believe that with our products in the hands of children, we are making a significant impact on the future of this world. The physical experience with our toys stimulates children’s imagination, creativity and learning, and thereby helps them to grow and develop as individuals. They are the builders of tomorrow. And of course, our operations must be safe for our employees and partners, and as clean and rewarding as possible for both the world and the local communities where we are present.” Introducing the LEGO Group 23 “The physical What will you do to aid this development as the owner family? experience “The LEGO values are deeply rooted in our company, and we see it as our primary task to do everything we can to ensure that they are still a fundamental with our toys part of our culture. We also acknowledge that we need to work in partnerships to deal with some of stimulates the greater challenges that the world – and children in particular – is facing. We will contribute with the children’s unique knowledge and experience we have: how children learn and develop through play.” imagination, Which sustainability issue do you think is the most challenging for the LEGO Group? creativity and “I’m truly pleased with our investments in renewable energy and our approach to develop buildings learning. They that can make a positive impact on society. Our vision – to reach as many children all around the world with LEGO experiences – must go hand in are the builders hand with the sustainable growth of our business. For me, maintaining and living out the LEGO values of tomorrow” and keeping employee motivation and consumer satisfaction high, are a risk in a time of global growth. I believe this could be a a potential challenge for keeping our business sustainable in the future.” Introducing the LEGO Group 25 Playing with LEGO bricks ® is about endless creativity and possibilities Letter from Jørgen Vig Knudstorp, CEO of the LEGO Group Dear reader, The LEGO Group has a vision of inventing the future of play. This may seem rather fluffy in a world where concrete targets and measures defined by numbers are in high demand. To us, however, inventing the future of play is tangible. We want to pioneer new ways of playing, continuously develop new play materials and revise our business model of how we innovate, operate, sell and interact with our stakeholders. We develop, manufacture and market play materials, so children are our core target group. But to us they are much more than that. Children are our role models. And children are our vital concern. We want all our activities to have as positive an impact Introducing the LEGO Group 29 as possible on the world we live in today and the planet that our children will inherit. This is reflected “We want all our activities to in our efforts on the sustainability and responsibility agenda. We believe that the most important positive impact we as a company have is through our products, services, play experiences, and the quality and safety of our products is consequently have as positive a key priority for the LEGO Group. Therefore, it is satisfactory that 2012 was another year with zero an impact as possible on the product recalls and a very strong outcome on our Net Promoter Score, which expresses children’s and adults’ excitement about the LEGO play experience. In 2013 the new European Toy Safety Directive will world we live in come into force. The LEGO Group fully supports high safety standards, and we have spent considerable today and the planet that our resources in recent years to make sure that we are fully compliant with the new and very detailed requirements, especially within the area of chemicals. In 2012, we also investigated the emergence of children will new materials. Using the highest quality and safest materials for our products will always be first priority. At the same time we want to improve the inherit” sustainability of the materials we use, and therefore we are investigating a potential renewable solution for our product material. Our ambition is to use 100% renewable energy sources by 2020, and our parent company’s announcement in 2012, of an investment in wind 30 The LEGO Group Progress Report 2012 Introducing the LEGO Group 31 power, which will balance the expected future anniversary. It was always the ambition to run a energy consumption of the LEGO Group, is a very healthy business that behaved responsibly towards important step in that direction. At the same time all its stakeholders. We believe that creating value it is also very encouraging that we continued to for all our stakeholders is the only sustainable way improve our energy efficiency in 2012. Our very for us to thrive as an independent, family-owned ambitious target for work-related injuries was not company. In our new framework and strategy for met in 2012. However, it is uplifting that we have sustainability and responsibility we aim to integrate seen a positive development in workplace safety. this mindset even further into the core operating But as everything we do is based on our company model of the company. philosophy: ‘Only the best is good enough’, we will continue to set and meet very ambitious goals, and Jørgen Vig Knudstorp our results leave no room for complacency. During 2013 we will be defining an updated overall framework and strategy for all our sustainability and responsibility efforts to update and replace our 2015 ambitions. We expect this work to be finished during 2013 in order for us to be able to put the strategy into action from 2014/15. With this Progress Report, we hold ourselves accountable to our stakeholders and report on how we delivered on our sustainability and responsibility targets in 2012. Our corporate governance helps ensure that we also live up to our commitment to the 10 principles of the UN Global Compact. We signed the Compact in 2003 as the first company in the industry and continue to support this initiative. In 2012, our employees, management and the third and fourth generation of the founding family together celebrated the LEGO Group’s 80th 32 The LEGO Group Progress Report 2012 Introducing the LEGO Group 33 2012 Progress Our purpose is to ‘Inspire The LEGO® brick has and develop the builders qualities that allow you of tomorrow’, and doing it to be artistic, scientific, through play – children’s intuitive and deductive, most important work. sensual and analytical all That it is how they learn, at the same time. In a safe develop and find meaning environment, the bricks in life. It is one of the most provide play experiences natural and vital activities that make you comfortable in human life. And it is the with uncertainty and able business we are in. to frame a problem. These are the skills of those We believe that all children who will build a better in the world have the right tomorrow. to play and learn with products that are safe both online and offline. 2012 Progress 61 Highlights Compliance with the EU Toy Safety Directive 2013 61 Compliance with the EU Toy Safety Directive 2013 66 Ensuring children’s safety online 73 73 Ambition for innovation of sustainable materials 80 Integration of product life-cycle analysis Ambition for innovation 83 Optimising packaging solutions of sustainable materials 92 Reaching energy efficiency and recycling of waste targets 95 Full-scale commitment to renewable energy 103 Spotlight on safety culture 120 Increasing consumer engagement and feedback 138 Continuous dialogue with suppliers 83 Optimizing packaging solutions FOCUS World Robot Olympiad The World Robot Olympiad (WRO), for which LEGO Education is the principal sponsor, is a robotics competition for children and youngsters which offers a fun and challenging playground for them to experience their first success within science, technology, engineering and maths. The ambition of the WRO is to make children aware of, and become inspired to, pursue a life within science and enable future generations to solve some of the challenges our planet faces. The competition has more than 17,000 teams representing 35 countries and is still growing. Everybody can enter the competition and go all the way to the global final, which in 2012 took place in Kuala Lumpur in Malaysia. With more than 400 teams from 30 countries participating in Kuala Lumpur, the World Robot Olympiad was truly a grand event. Learn more at: http://wroboto.org/ The value of play The LEGO Group and the LEGO Foundation participate actively in supporting these and learning developments through a series of initiatives which all come together to support our overall philosophy. The next sections outline some examples. To highlight a few we; • are involved with UNESCO on “Strengthening the Engagement of the Private Sector in Education” • participate in OECD’s Innovative Learning Environments programme • work with the EU Commission for Education and Culture to influence dialogue through panellists • work with the Clinton Global Initiative committee on Early Childhood Education The LEGO Group has a strong philosophy on play • are members of the Partnership for 21st Century and learning. It is part of our heritage and reflected Skills in United States schools in our name, which is really an acronym covering two • are members of the Global Business Coalition for Danish words LEg and GOdt, which translates as Education to promote access to education for all ‘play well’. To support the right to play as a universal and the right to quality learning experiences right for children comes without saying. Great • engage with Ministries of Education across efforts are done in collaboration across the LEGO the world; influencing dialogue and providing Group including our department for educational inspiration for the ministries in promoting more products and the LEGO Foundation including the playful learning environments for children LEGO Learning Institute, which carries out academic research in the field of play and learning. A part of Improving childhood in partnership this work is our full support for the United Nations It is a fact that childhood – and thereby the Convention on the Rights of the Child. And as one possibilities of the individual child to develop to element of children’s right to play, we believe that all its full potential and contribute meaningfully as children in the world have the right to play and learn a global citizen – looks very different in different with products that are safe both online and offline. locations of the world. 42 The LEGO Group Progress Report 2012 2012 Progress 43 Just consider a few facts, from UNESCO, such as: • 1 billion children are being deprived of one or FOCUS more services essential to their survival and A question from World Wide Fund development • 51 million children are unregistered at birth, for Nature (WWF) leaving them without access to social security Frederik Lynge, The LEGO Group: Corporate Relations Manager We engage with children and families and health care WWF Denmark: in many ways: via our physical • 67 million children do not attend primary school How does the LEGO Group utilise its products, our online platforms, and potential to reach millions of children numerous building events. One – a number which rises markedly for secondary and families with its values and vision event which we encourage children and tertiary schooling of a sustainable society? to participate in is the FIRST® LEGO League challenge. The programme reaches more than 200,000 children These are huge global sustainability challenges aged 9-14 years in 70 countries and invites them to solve a societal issue and one that the LEGO Group alone will have through natural science and build a difficulty addressing. It requires the concerted solution with a LEGO MINDSTORMS robot. We are still in the early days of effort of many parties in the public, private and assessing how the LEGO Group best civil sectors. We recognise that the LEGO Group can contribute to a sustainable society. can play a part in this effort, leveraging our global brand and relationship with children in all corners of the globe. By collaborating in relevant partnerships we believe we can have a positive impact on the child-rights situation. 44 The LEGO Group Progress Report 2012 FOCUS Respectful Academic research on the value of play collaboration In 2012 we continued our participation needs to be improved as increasing in Toy Industries of Europe. The LEGO urbanisation, rising stress of family life, Group supported, and the LEGO and changes in the educational system Learning Institute helped facilitate, are jeopardising the opportunity to a report on the value of play and play. In 2013, through the Toy Industries education of children. The report of Europe, we will seek to expand the was presented at the European dialogue with policy makers to discuss Parliament and includes a number of these important issues for children’s recommendations for policy makers. well being. The report finds that the provision of time and space for children’s play Learn more at http://www.tietoy.org We acknowledge the importance of the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child, and child rights are integrated in our ongoing human rights impact assessment, in order for us to understand and plan how we, as a business, can best and most meaningfully support child rights in the future. We also support the Children’s Rights & Business Principles, which through 10 principles encompass the areas where a business potentially impacts children’s rights, negatively as well as positively. We support all 10 principles, however we want to focus where our impact is greatest, and according to our analysis this is: 2012 Progress 47 FOCUS Understanding how toys ­establish social relations The LEGO Learning Institute is part of the LEGO Foundation and has the ambition to bring academic knowledge and insight to new audiences, while at the same time generating helpful feedback for the people who design and build the LEGO® play experiences. Over the years a profound understanding of how children learn and play has been accumulated. In 2012, the LEGO Learning Institute started out as collaborator in an EU research network that consists of 13 European research institutes, clinical centres and private enterprises which span the biomedical sciences and the humanities. The EU network focuses on the ways in which objects and toys create a shared meaning between people. This includes an investigation of how toddlers and young children understand toys, objects and cultural artefacts and the links between play objects and social relations. The LEGO Learning Institute facilitated workshops with the academic experts to discuss how the LEGO System as a creative medium, can be used to support collaboration among people. Principle 5: Ensure that products and services are a focus on children and children’s development, safe, and seek to support children’s rights through learning and creativity. them – through our strong product-safety focus. Read more on page 61. One initiative was the LEGO Foundation’s donation of LEGO Education Innovation Studio (LEIS) Principle 6: Use marketing and advertising that and teaching courses to all schools in Billund respect and support children’s rights – where we Municipality. The new specialist classroom gives work to set high standards for our own marketing, students an opportunity to work far more creatively both offline and online. Read more on page 135. with problem solving, thereby bringing other skills into the learning process. The knowledge and Principle 7: Respect and support children’s rights in experiences from the LEIS initiative will be shared relation to the environment and to land acquisition with other projects. and use. Read more on page 90. The LEGO Foundation will establish an international Principles 1 and 10: Meet their responsibility to kindergarten and school of top standards based on respect children’s rights and commit to supporting the LEGO methodology, showcasing how this can be the human rights of children and reinforce applied in an institutional setting. The two facilities community and government efforts to protect and will make it easier to attract both non-Danish fulfil children’s rights – where we collaborate with employees and Danish families to Billund. The school UNICEF and Save the Children. Read more on page will open in August 2013. 45 and 151. To give children and parents from across the world The Town of Billund, Denmark: Capital of Children a fun and informative insight into LEGO play, values In 2012, the LEGO Foundation and Billund and history when visiting Billund, a new experience Municipality founded the Capital of Children centre is expected to be inaugurated in 2016. The Company to explore a unified vision to develop centre will combine academic knowledge about the Billund into a special place for, about and with developmental aspects of play with the brick itself – children – a Capital of Children. The town will to enable children and their parents to see and feel become a national as well as an international what LEGO play offers. gathering point for children – attracting businesses, researchers and many others with 50 The LEGO Group Progress Report 2012 2012 Progress 51 FOCUS A consumer story – making LEGO® models down-under Good morning LEGO, I run a LEGO Club as a volunteer at Mona Vale Library on Sydney’s Northern Beaches in Australia. It’s for children aged between about 3 and 12. It’s an exercise in pure, creative energy! Most of the LEGO® products were donated, along with plenty of instruction books. The children create their own models, combining bricks and colours in ways that reflect their individual imaginations. These ‘freefor-all’ sessions are fun, encourage co-operation and team work, and bring out the LEGO fan in all of us (including parents and grandparents)! Regards from Alan (Submitted November 25, 2012, by Alan Smith, Australia.) Photo: Braden Fastier/Newspix Through a Twitter campaign (#LEGOstory) consumers had the opportunity to submit a mail with their personal LEGO story for inclusion in this report. The brick The LEGO Group has In 2012 the LEGO Group’s promised to take the corporate reputation was lead in respect of safety positioned as the 10th towards consumers. best among companies This means working to in the global survey by ensure that children can Reputation Institute. always play safely with LEGO® products. That promise makes product safety a top priority for both physical and digital products. 56 The LEGO Group Progress Report 2012 The brick 57 Product safety Playing safe – the safety of Indicator Product recalls (a our bricks 2012 dedication 0 2012 realisation 0 • Systematical risk assessment (mechanical and chemical) in product development • Systematic approach to identify potential product safety risks and address by solid action plans • Fast response to potential quality and product safety issues reported by consumers With everything we do to make our products safe, 2013 roadmap • Proactive identification of risks and the marketing of them appropriate for children, • Focus on early stages of product development we live up to our commitment to act where we can in terms of children’s rights, in support of the Children’s 2013 target 0 Rights and Business principles no 5. ‘Ensure that products and services are safe, and seek to support children’s rights through them’ and no 6. ‘Use marketing and advertising that respects and supports children’s rights’. The overall indicator used to monitor product safety is the number of product recalls we perform in a year. Since 2004 we have performed only two product recalls. Again in 2012 we met our target of zero product recalls, and this will also be our target for 2013. In addition, we take the feedback 58 The LEGO Group Progress Report 2012 The brick 59 we get from hundreds of thousand of consumers with mechanical testing of elements from the through our Net Promoter Score survey to find out start of production proper, and regular spot if consumers experience any safety-related issues checks are carried out during production with with the product. You can read more about this in the both measurements and tests. In addition, normal section ‘In dialogue with the world – how we listen chemical tests are performed on raw materials. This and respond’ on page 122. level of analysis goes beyond compliance with legal requirements but is applied to ensure that only the Starting at the very beginning absolute safest and cleanest materials are used. Our focus on product safety starts with the materials we use. We work with raw-material suppliers and We believe that in setting the highest standard for approve materials based on our ingredients lists. To traceability, safety and performance of chemical our knowledge, this is unique in the toy industry. We safety assessments, we ensure our compliance with adopt the most advanced measures to manage the laws and regulations as well as industry standards chemistry and chemicals that go into making LEGO® for the production of toys. products and to minimise the risks to health and environment that these chemicals present. And we Having this deep knowledge of the raw materials we believe in producing high quality products that last use to make our products places the LEGO Group year after year, maybe for generations. in a stronger position when it comes to anticipating or responding to changes in requirements from new On top of the chemical safety assessment of the legislation, new scientific information, and when we materials used, all new LEGO elements will already want to initiate and implement changes of our own. at the drawing board undergo a safety assessment regarding mechanical/physical safety, electrical Preparing for a new directive safety, hygiene, and flammability. Only when an One example is the chemical requirements from element has been internally approved in the the new European Toy Safety Directive, which will assessment can it be used in a new LEGO product. come into effect in 2013. The new directive lays down more stringent demands for materials and related Assessment at the element level is only the first documentation, which we fully support. step in an approval and control process that also includes an entire safety assessment for each The LEGO Group has interpreted the new Directive new LEGO model. A toy safety report concludes in the strictest manner and significant resources 60 The LEGO Group Progress Report 2012 The brick 61 Item number 8066: LEGO Technic Off-roader consists of 141 elements. It goes through 443 checkpoints before the product is released for sale. have been spent on screening our material portfolio and verifying compliance of every single substance and each raw material. Our internal processes and IT-systems allow us to be in complete control of the detailed documentation that is linked to every single LEGO product and the raw materials that have been used to produce it. A LEGO® building set is not finally released for sale to consumers until we have verified that all the necessary test reports, certificates and approvals are in place. To illustrate the amount of documentation needed before a LEGO® product is released to the market, we can use a random item number 8066 which is the LEGO Technic Off-roader consisting of 141 elements. For this product our IT system monitors 443 checkpoints which all have to be confirmed before the item receives the final internal approval and is released for sale. Our way of performing safety assessments at both the element and model level has been in place for many years but as a response to the new Directive we have chosen to expand and refine it. In order for our assessments to fully cover all possible chemical aspects, the LEGO Group has invested heavily in testing all raw materials, to reconfirm that they contain only substances which are listed on the ingredients lists which we have approved one by one for every plastic resin, decoration ink, etc. To make this possible we have expanded our team of The brick 65 chemical experts whose main task it is to evaluate in discussions with children and parents to better and communicate the list of ingredients we require understand the challenges and opportunities from all our suppliers of raw materials. experienced by them. Efforts like these are fundamental for the LEGO Group to learn about the All LEGO® play materials comply with all the realities a child’s life online brings with it. regulations in our many different markets, the European and the US toy regulations being the two We support and comply with the Federal Trade of greatest significance. Our quality policy and our Commission’s Child Online Privacy Protection Act ISO 9001 certified quality-management system forms (COPPA) as well as articles of the 1989 United the basis for quality control and the continuous Nation’s Children’s Rights Convention, stating, monitoring we perform. amongst other rights, that children have the right to participate in play and the right to protection. For This is the LEGO® way of ensuring that all our example, in accordance with COPPA rules, we do not building sets are safe in every respect and also of a engage directly with children under the age of 13 on high and consistent quality which our customers and third-party social media platforms, where we find we consumers can always trust as – ‘Only the best is cannot fully moderate and protect children. good enough’. Ensuring children’s safety online Children spend more and more time playing online. They see it as a natural extension of the physical world and boundaries between the two are blurring. As a consequence, our commitment to support children’s right to protection and safety – as stated in the Children’s Rights and Business Principles – now also extends to the online world. We expanded our focus on online safety in 2012. We joined forces with the UK-based Safer Internet Centre and celebrated the Safer Internet Day in February, where the LEGO Group’s staff participated 66 The LEGO Group Progress Report 2012 The brick 67 FOCUS A consumer story – making a human connection with LEGO® bricks Dear LEGO, I have a seven years old son who I have attached some photographs is on the autism spectrum. While of Christopher’s creations. My Christopher has difficulty with verbal husband and I are extremely grateful expression and social interaction, that this medium exists and for the he has a brilliant and creative mind. opportunities it has provided for us to His visual and spatial reasoning is interact and understand our son. profound. For the past year, he has been increasingly using LEGO® I sincerely thank you for your time bricks as a means of expressing in reading this email and for the himself – communicating about and opportunity to express our gratitude. sharing with us his interests, ideas, and experiences. I cannot tell you how Warmly, Francesca important this is for us. Christopher’s therapists regularly use LEGO® bricks as part of his therapeutic (Submitted on November 29, 2012, by intervention with great success. We Francesca, USA) work with a wonderful doctor who Photo: Tower of stairs – private specialises in autism and OCD, and he Through a Twitter campaign believes Christopher to be extremely (#LEGOstory) consumers had the gifted. He has encouraged us to seek opportunity to submit a mail with their out ways to develop and nurture personal LEGO story for inclusion in Christopher’s talents. this report. Stay true to our promise to leave a better world for our children Sustainable parts – the environmental impact of our bricks The LEGO Group’s Planet Promise obligates us to do what we can to reduce the environmental impact, and common sense tells us to focus our efforts where it matters most. We acknowledge that using raw materials, producing and packing and distributing LEGO® products have an impact on the environment. Our greatest environmental impact arises from the raw materials that we use, as activities like raw material extraction amount to approximately 60% of total CO2 emissions in the full product-value chain. Processing raw materials into products counts for approximately 25% and is where we have the biggest direct influence. A new materials strategy Our consumers deserve the highest quality and safest materials we can possibly use in the The brick 73 CO2 emissions in the The simplified life cycle of product value chain the LEGO product Environmental impact Our Landfill / Incineration Waste 60% focus Recycling Retail 25% LEGO production Materials Processing Distribution Use End of life Raw materials Suppliers and resources Value Chain Estimated environmental impact based on 2010 full value chain climate inventory calculation. The brick 75 manufacture of our products, and that will always be our first priority. As stated in our Planet Promise, we want to make a positive impact. This goes for the LEGO Group itself but we also work closely with our supply chain to do the same. We are therefore constantly on the lookout for product materials which minimise the environmental impact. The LEGO Group has a long-term ambition to use only sustainable materials and investigate our use of fossil fuels in relation to our products. The fact of the matter is that it is a necessary ambition if we are to stay true to our promise to leave a better world for our children. First steps As a consequence, the LEGO Group will actively FOCUS engage in activities to ensure development of future materials. We are exploring co-operation with both Where do large, established and smaller, cutting-edge material LEGO® bricks suppliers with a view to developing partly and fully bio-based materials which are suitable for LEGO® come from? products and production. The LEGO® bricks start out as a fragment distilled from crude oil. Through a number of chemical The present materials are carefully selected and processes the large molecules from refined to perfection over the years regarding their crude oil (or plants) are converted into small defined types of molecules. The physical properties. These unique properties like small molecules are coupled into a strength, durability, clutch power and color fastness long chain of molecules to make for example the material Polyethylene. makes the building system possible and thereby All plastic materials for our bricks are constitutes the basis for the overall LEGO® experience. made in this way. Maintaining these properties in the LEGO® bricks after The brick 77 FOCUS How environmental focus can change design The redesigned LEGO® DUPLO® wheel base element shows how transparency on environmental impact can guide design towards reduced environmental impact. The new base being fully in plastic reduces the overall environmental impact by approximately 10-20% and the innovative design is cheaper to make than the previous wheel base which had metal axes. a shift to an alternative material, makes the search a real challenge. Maintaining these properties is a prerequisite for the unique LEGO play experience. Co-operative Targets will be set to reduce material production’s CO2 footprint. We will advocate an ambitious target for reducing energy consumption (CO2 equivalence) in the material value chain – from nature to brick. The exact target will be defined together with partners in this massive development project. The sheer scope alone of such an effort makes it a partnership-based effort. Many steps are involved in covering the entire value chain from oil/plant to the moulding machine, and the development of the machinery and processes necessary to produce plastic can best be tackled in co-operation. It may also involve a number of different industries. FOCUS Benchmarking Taking environmental impact into account product Two full CO2 value chain assessments done in 2007/8 and in 2010/11 clearly show that material choice has a sustainability big environmental impact. Raw material production is The non-profit organisation Climate Counts assesses the world’s largest not part of the LEGO Group’s operational boundaries, organisations’ climate impact. The and the direct influence is therefore limited. However, LEGO Group is among the evaluated companies. In the 2012 edition of the the choice of product material is part of the design category ‘Toy and children’s equipment’, process for the LEGO products and we have the LEGO Group ranked second best with a score of 70 out of 100. developed two generic Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) models to be used in development of packaging and Read more at: http://climatecounts.org elements. The models are the starting point in making 80 The LEGO Group Progress Report 2012 FOCUS the environmental impact transparent to designers thereby enabling evaluation of different choices. 18% reduction Optimizing our packaging solution – making in product smaller boxes from certified wood packaging After close dialogue and collaboration efforts A substantial decrease in the size of with some of our main stakeholders, the LEGO LEGO product packaging will take Group will begin in 2013 to reduce the size of its effect in 2013, after a series of positive pilot tests conducted in partnership product packaging. This is in line with our life-cycle with retailers. Reducing the amount analyses which show that packaging constitutes of packaging by 18% by 2015 at the latest has several advantages: less approximately 15% of the environmental impact from environmental impact through savings a full value-chain perspective. on materials and transport, consumers can better handle the packaging, and retailers have room for more items on Back in 2011 we began the work of gaining full their shelves. traceability of the fibre based raw material we use With most of the product range in for packaging materials in order to reduce the the new smaller boxes already on shelves in 2013, an initial reduction of environmental impact. about 12% has already been gained. We focus on: Reducing the size of boxes is a fine balancing act – it must still be relatively easy for LEGO employees • Reducing the amount of packaging to pack the boxes. The actual LEGO® bricks in the boxes will be the same, • Using recycled fibre-based raw materials when it providing the same quality building is possible and on average at least 75% and play experience as always. • Securing sustainable sourcing via FSC certification We are ahead of schedule with our implementation and projections are that carbon emissions from the product packaging will be reduced by 10% once fully implemented. By implementing smaller boxes a reduction of 18% of the cardboard used is achieved, which is approximately 4000 tonnes a year. In line with our target, we use and will continue to use on The brick 83 FOCUS average a minimum of 75% recycled materials for our primary LEGO box packaging. A question from World Wide Fund Sourcing certified paper materials for Nature (WWF) In 2012 we arranged with our suppliers to begin Frederik Lynge, Corporate Relations they prefer to keep the LEGO product delivering the print and packaging we use for our Manager, WWF Denmark: and pass it on to the next generation How is the LEGO Group engaged in rather than dispose of it. We have core products and large parts of our marketing promoting a system for recycling the focused on making our products ready materials as wood based materials certified by the plastics in old products? for recycling; one example could be how we redesigned a LEGO® DUPLO® Forest Stewardship Council (FSC). Specifically, the The LEGO Group: wheel base element. We now make print and packaging materials are based on fibres Reuse and recycling of products are the new wheel base fully in plastic and essential and we fully support this that reduces the overall environmental from FSC, certified forests, reclaimed/recycled fibres approach. In 2010 we launched a impact by approximately 10-20%. and fibres from FSC Controlled Wood. This is one project to clarify the options for return Improvements like this, are the solutions. However, the high quality of constant ambition in our Design for way we take on responsibility in the fight against the product is in most cases valued Disassembly project. (See page 80 for deforestation – helping to support children’s right to by consumers to such an extent that more information). a healthy environment. By 2013 we aim for all print and packaging for core LEGO® products and the main part of all marketing materials to be FSC certified, and we will begin to label it as such by 2014. The ambition is that by 2015 all paper used by the LEGO Group for printed materials, packaging, building instructions, brochures and in store materials will be FSC certified. At the same time, the LEGO Group will impose the same requirement on its partners producing licensed products. The brick 85 Making LEGO ® play materials The builders of tomorrow This is in line with principle deserve that we do what no. 7: Respect and support we can to mitigate climate children’s rights in relation change. In the LEGO Group to the environment and we acknowledge that to land acquisition and our activities contribute use, in our commitment to to man-made climate the Children’s Rights and change, and we dedicate Business Principles. projects and resources to contribute to protecting children’s right to live in a healthy environment both now and in the future. 88 The LEGO Group Progress Report 2012 Making LEGO® play materials 89 Sustainable production Sustainable production – reducing the impact of making Indicator Energy Efficiency (x Recycled waste (z 2012 dedication +2.5% 88% 2012 realisation +4.1% • Implementation of solutions 88% • Localized ­initiatives include LEGO® bricks within compressed air, focus on higher degree lighting, ventilation and of reducing, reusing and cooling recycling waste • New moulding machinery • Increased ­employee and installed management awareness LEGO® products are manufactured mainly at our own of reducing manufacturing four sites around the world as we believe it makes waste sense to produce where we use. With a global, yet regionally founded, production setup we stay close 2013 roadmap • New machinery installation • Continue optimization • Reduce energy of product packaging to our markets and reduce our environmental impact consumption through material as we reduce our transportation. Our locations are insulation • Increase awareness of reducing manufacturing certified according to the environmental standard waste ISO 14001, and global as well as local initiatives are applied to reduce the environmental impact of our 2013 target +2.5% 90% production processes. Our main focus is on energy efficiency and waste. Our target is to gain a 2.5% energy efficiency improvement year on year towards 2015. Our ultimate, long-term aspiration is to have zero waste which we are progressing towards, and in 2013 we want to reach a rate of 90% recycling. 90 The LEGO Group Progress Report 2012 Making LEGO® play materials 91 Energy efficiency CO2 emissions In 2012, our energy efficiency improvement reached 1000 tonnes CO2 4.1% which was satisfyingly above our target of a 80 2.5% gain. With energy efficiency as a continued 70 focus area we saw various successful energy saving 60 projects within compressed air, lighting, ventilation and cooling. Despite these efforts, the LEGO Group’s 50 total energy consumption rose to 224 GWh as our 40 sales and production increased in 2012. 30 20 Comparing the two indexes on the graph 10 ‘Development for energy and production’ – our 0 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 consumption of raw material (granulate), and the CO2 emissions from main production sites calculated according to the Greenhouse energy we use at our main production sites – we see Gas Protocol guidelines using the newest available emission factors fixed for all years. clear energy efficiency gains from 2007 onwards. An effect from our high utilisation of production capacity must be taken into consideration. Development for energy and production However, total CO2 emissions are growing due to Index points Granulate rising production, and the increases exceed the 300 efficiency gains accomplished in our operations. 250 The result is an increase in absolute CO2 emissions. Energy A number of projects and initiatives are in progress 200 to remedy this in keeping with the LEGO Group’s 150 Planet Promise. 100 One example is to insulate the cooling and heating 50 pipes for our moulding machines. During 2012, a project at our Danish factory has implemented 0 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 such a saving, which is estimated at the equivalent Development in index for energy (MWh) and production (tons of plastic granulate) of approx. 600 Danish residential homes’ annual at main production sites since 2007. 92 The LEGO Group Progress Report 2012 Making LEGO® play materials 93 electricity consumption. In 2013, the project will be expanded to an additional factory. Breaking the old mould Moulding of bricks is where the majority of our energy consumption takes place. In view of this, we initiated a machine optimisation project in 2012, which on selected bricks will enable faster and more efficient production hereby, reducing energy consumption. In 2013 it is planned to install the new moulding machines. Further installation of machines is expected to happen progressively towards 2015. Full-scale commitment to renewable energy In early 2012, KIRKBI A/S, the holding and investment company of the Kirk Kristiansen family which owns 75% of the LEGO Group, committed to a substantial investment in renewable electricity through the development of an offshore wind farm in Germany. The investment demonstrates commitment from the LEGO Group to deliver its Planet Promise, making a positive impact, and reaching its target of using 100% renewable energy by 2020. When fully operational the wind farm will go a long way to help us meet our 2020 renewable target. Our future footprint The LEGO Group currently expects to continue expanding its global manufacturing footprint. Further focus on climate change is therefore a central part of the sustainability strategy process that will run in 2013. Making LEGO® play materials 95 Hamburg Bremerhaven Emden FOCUS LEGO Group and will help balance our than 25 wind turbines and equal to energy needs for many years to come. the consumption of approx. 100,000 Danish homes. Construction of Borkum The LEGO “This massive investment in wind Riffgrund 1 will begin in 2013 and the energy is not a one off event – it is an turbines will start supplying power in Group helps integral part of our overall ambition 2015, with the right to generate for the of making a positive impact on the next 25 years. build an world. We’re on a journey, a never ending journey – but the investment The investment in renewable energy offshore wind in renewable energy is a huge step in will qualify the LEGO Group to use the right direction,” says Jørgen Vig the WindMade label which shows farm Knudstorp, CEO of the LEGO Group. that 100% of the energy used by the company is balanced by wind power. The wind farm called Borkum Riffgrund The LEGO Group was a co-founding In 2012 the LEGO Group’s parent 1 will be built by Dong Energy using partner of the WindMade label which company KIRKBI A/S announced an 77 Siemens offshore turbines each is the first global consumer label to investment of approx. EUR 400 million generating 3.6MW giving a total identify those companies which use in the development of an offshore wind installed capacity of 277MW. KIRKBI renewable energy in their operations farm. The investment in wind power A/S will own one third of the wind or manufacture of products. further supports the ongoing energy farm’s production of electric power efficiency improvements across the – equivalent to the output of more Making green money from plastic Water usage waste in production In 2012, the increase in the LEGO Group’s production In the production facility in Billund, Denmark, LEGO® meant that we used a total of 279,000 m3 of water. employees made a test with a container full of already discarded plastic waste, which showed that In the LEGO Group we acknowledge that water more than 60% of what was in the container could is a constrained resource and one of the most be recycled. This led to new signage and waste important to protect because access to water is collection areas making it easy to sort the plastic. directly linked to access to drinking water and to Saving 60% of the waste which was previously sent continuously ensuring food safety around the world. for incineration will help the LEGO Group towards Water usage is an area that we will investigate in the goal of recycling all waste and will generate more depth to better understand and assess where substantial savings on the cost of handling waste. to focus our future efforts. Working towards generating no waste Our approach is firstly to try and reduce the amount of waste we generate, and then reuse any waste material where possible, and finally recycle almost everything that is left. As a result, zero waste is our long term ambition and one which we continue to make progress on. In 2013 the LEGO Group will initiate a detailed assessment that will not only identify the sources of waste but also the necessary steps to eliminate our waste generation. At the same time we will increase our recycling target to 90% in 2013. We believe that a sustainable approach to our business will have a positive impact on the environment and our key stakeholders. 98 The LEGO Group Progress Report 2012 Making LEGO® play materials 99 FOCUS In-store marketing – store signage foil without PVC and Phthalate The foil used in stores to market LEGO® products will be replaced by a new type of foil which contains neither PVC nor Phthalate. The foil is planned to launch in 2013 at the Nürnberg Toy Fair. Hereafter it will be incorporated into the retail stores. The development of the material was made possible through a strategic partnership with one of the LEGO Group’s suppliers. The environmentally friendly foil offers the same strength in terms of quality and usability. It does require a higher water usage to produce this material, however, we have assessed that the CO2 emissions saved outweigh this. By converting the printed foil used in 1300 stores, the entire value chain will in total: • reduce carbon emissions equivalent to taking 57 cars off the road for a day • save energy usage equivalent to the daily energy usage from 202 households • eliminate halogen related disposal concerns • increase water usage equivalent to the daily water usage from 21 households Work safety Safe workplaces – the health & safety of LEGO® employees Indicator Injury rate (h 2012 dedication 1.8 2012 realisation 1.9 • Greater focus on reducing the Brand Retail store injury rate • Improved identification and implementation of best practices • Continue to unify safety policies at all sites 2013 roadmap • Strengthen the corporate safety culture through behavior Safety is a top priority for the LEGO Group, both for and awareness initiatives our consumers and for the people who work for and • Reinforce the global presence of the Global EHS team • Document safety procedures and ensure global usage with us. We are relentlessly committed to finding new ways of working and to continuously improve 2013 target 1.5 our performance and culture in relation to health and safety. A safer place to work – changing behaviour In 2012 we maintained our ambition of being acknowledged as one of the top companies in the world for employee safety by 2015. Our injury rate was 1.9 injuries per million working hours, down from 2.1 in 2011. This undertaking has been a result of decisive internal efforts throughout the organisation. Regrettably, this was above our 2012 target of 1.8. In order to improve we continue to advocate and apply 102 The LEGO Group Progress Report 2012 Making LEGO® play materials 103 We continue to advocate and apply a proactive health and safety approach to change culture, attitude and behaviour. a proactive health and safety approach to change culture, attitude and behaviour. In 2012 we continued to strengthen our Global Environment Health and Safety Community to secure localised knowledge and be able to share and implement it globally, so best practices can raise the overall capability of the organisation. In continuation of our strides to make the LEGO Group the safest workplace possible we are looking to identify new areas and ways to build sustainable health and safety behaviour in the organisation. Having improved employee safety hugely in the manufacturing areas over the past few years, we see further improvement to be mainly through awareness campaigns and training programmes to raise the health and safety awareness of the employees in offices and in our own Brand Retail stores. FOCUS Sharing safety knowledge No major non-conformities across retail stores In 2012, we had no major Environment, Health and Problems like slipping on a floor or Employee awareness has meant an Safety non-conformities registered at our external twisting on a ladder are being proactively increased completion rate of incident certification audits. Having put a spotlight on our addressed by store management to reports which provides greater visibility ensure that all employees are safe at of the incidents happening. This Billund facility after we received nine major nonwork. Improved knowledge sharing enables managers to obtain a better conformities in 2011, we are very pleased that our across retail stores through an online understanding of the key challenges and platform has helped to embed corrective work to eliminate hazards in stores with dedicated employees have solved these matters actions immediately – before a similar a high incident rate. and that we saw no major non-conformities in 2012. accident happens in another store. 106 The LEGO Group Progress Report 2012 Smart people – smart products – the LEGO Group and its people Employee safety is a first priority for the LEGO Group and it is a core part of our culture. As well as providing a strong safety culture, the company wants to have satisfied and motivated employees. In 2012 we measured the Employee Net Promoter Score and were glad to get the feedback from our employees and a score of 56%. Employee motivation and satisfaction In our 2012 employee survey, where 94% of our employees participated, they score their level of motivation and satisfaction at 77 index points, which is fifteen points above international benchmarks. Highly dedicated and engaged LEGO® employees are one of the crucial building blocks for our current success. LEGO® leaders do their utmost to listen and Making LEGO® play materials 109 react to employees’ feedback, and it is our long-term Employee engagement target to provide a workplace which our employees value 10 index points ahead of our benchmarks. The high score in motivation, satisfaction and engagement is related to our values, culture and Employee Net reputation, according to our employees. Across Indicator Motivation and satisfaction (l Promoter Score (k the world, our employees said that having an 2012 dedication +10 62% extraordinary job with exciting tasks and great colleagues, while working for a company with a 2012 realisation +15 56% strong culture and values, is what fuels motivation more than anything else. • An extraordinary daily job, • Implementing and adapting and immediate leaders to major organizational who are responsive and changes Attracting the right people dedicated • Continued to build In 2012 the number of employees in the LEGO company values, culture Group increased by 1474 to a total at 12,264 and in and reputation the next few years we expect to welcome around 5,000 new colleagues. In order to sustain our 2013 roadmap • Make motivation and • Leverage potential of engagement an ongoing strategic clarity, culture and growth and high level of motivation, it is important agenda point for leadership new ways of working to that all new colleagues understand and live our decisions increase share of company • Maintain high level of ambassadors unique LEGO culture. Therefore, we strengthened motivation and satisfaction • Strengthen follow up the integration of new employees in 2012 with a in the company overall dialogue and actions from the employee survey pre-boarding web site and through assigning a personal Brickmate to each new employee to help 2013 target +10 62% the new starter get the best possible introduction. Surveys show that employee motivation and engagement after the first 100 days is high. Attracting new employees requires spotlighting the LEGO Group as an attractive workplace and its employer value proposition. The LEGO Group 110 The LEGO Group Progress Report 2012 Making LEGO® play materials 111 is recognised in several countries as a top 100 employer of choice and was in 2012 acknowledged FOCUS as one of the Top 100 Most in Demand Employers by Providing a the professional networking site LinkedIn. hands-on/ Compensating and rewarding a global workforce minds-on From 2012 our implemented Reward Framework approach provides employees with market based reward packages linked to performance in line with local to Chinese standards whilst supporting the LEGO Group’s schools performance culture. Employee benefits are Since 2010, the LEGO Foundation benchmarked against local practices, however, has worked with partners in China to distribute boxes with LEGO® or LEGO® we work on a global benefits strategy to provide DUPLO® bricks to kindergartens direction in principle on which benefits are enforced and primary schools, as well as training teachers and students from to reflect the LEGO Group’s values and culture. a university in the LEGO learning methodology. Cultural and gender diversity The purpose – and challenge – of In 2012 the LEGO Group recruited 11% more women the project is to make more room for creative and playful learning in the to higher level leadership positions (Directors and Chinese educational system. The above), bringing the total percentage to 34 and above outcome so far has been positive, as of 2012 more than 100,000 children our target of 30%. It indicates that recruitment in the have had access to the materials and LEGO Group is moving in the right direction to meet approximately 1000 teachers have been trained. Teachers have been our ambitions with regard to gender diversity at this genuinely interested, and the schools’ level. Our target for 2013 is to recruit 30% or above. very accommodating. In the LEGO Group we want our employees to reflect the variety of society in general with regards to culture, backgrounds and way of thinking. And we believe that through a focus on diversity in respect of culture and gender we strengthen our organization, products and our relationships to our stakeholders. 112 The LEGO Group Progress Report 2012 Across the world, In 2012 our Corporate Management consisted of male employees from six different nationalities. To our employees gain a more diversified composition is a stepwise process for such a high level decision body, but the current composition is found unsatisfactory. To drive said that having forth the agenda, a dedicated team with our CEO as chairman has taken the initiative to spearhead the an extraordinary diversity agenda with a hands-on approach. job with exciting tasks and great colleagues, while working for a company with a strong culture and values, is what fuels motivation more than anything else. Making LEGO® play materials 115 Outside the LEGO Group In the LEGO Group we We engage with everybody acknowledge that we are outside the LEGO Group only a small company in who can help to improve a big world. However, we our products and advocate want to have the most our standpoints – in line fruitful dialogue with those with our promises to work people and organisations for the right to play, to who we believe can care for nature, to make positively empower safe toys, to support the children, those we call the development of creativity ‘Builders of Tomorrow’. and problem solving abilities, and to do this in a respectful way that creates value for both society and the LEGO Group. 118 The LEGO Group Progress Report 2012 Outside the LEGO Group 119 In dialogue Consumer satisfaction with the world – how we listen Consumer complaint and respond Indicator Net Promoter Score (c call rate (b 2012 dedication 102 index <=550 2012 realisation 105 index 792 • Extremely successful • New call centre in Asia new product lines and enable more consumers to improvement of the Shop get in contact with us at Home post purchase • Increase in average amount experience of elements per box deems • Focus on delivering more service calls The very first thing we as the LEGO Group must do exceptional service and • US consumers call proactively communicating consumer service more is to listen to our stakeholders, only then can we across business areas to often than other regions respond appropriately. Through listening and actively escalate and solve issues engaging in dialogue we can hope to positively influence the global issues that affect children and 2013 roadmap • Improve overall shopping • Optimize monitoring and experience analysis of consumer call the LEGO Group and its products. • Extend the LEGO.com trends experience across digital • Faster, quarterly devices deployment of corrective Talking to consumers and hearing what they say • Improve our online actions We want to give all our consumers a quality play consumer service experience and also to find out how satisfied they are. And we believe that producing high quality 2013 target 105 index <=900 products which last year after year, maybe for generations, while bringing children endless hours of fun, is the best way to achieve this. When consumers are satisfied with us, they will return, buy again, and tell their friends. Therefore, we focus our efforts on 120 The LEGO Group Progress Report 2012 Outside the LEGO Group 121 improving the consumer experience. To measure consumer satisfaction we use the recognised indicator Net Promoter Score® (NPS). In 2012, more than 625,000 consumers gave us feedback, which is an increase of 25% from 2011, with the resulting Net Promoter Score reaching an index of 105. We exceeded our target due to our team of exceptionally dedicated service employees all over the world who continue to provide superior consumer service, the keen excitement around our product lines, and improved experiences in LEGO. com content and shop areas. One way we also listen to our consumers is through a series of specialised call centres. Since 2005 we have collected, analysed and categorised the FOCUS feedback we receive to detect a pattern and drive business decisions and actions to designate main Making play possible for areas for improvement. refugee children Using social media to reach the world of consumers Serbia hosts the largest number of them learn through interaction, taught refugees in Europe (70,000) and over them how to share and learn from each Our social media presence is growing rapidly, and 200,000 internally displaced people. In other, underpinned their communication in 2012 we reached more than 3.4 million fans on collaboration with the United Nations and manual skills, as well as built High Commissioner for Refugees, the on the children’s reasoning, which Facebook – and some weeks reaching more than 25 LEGO Foundation has reached more includes matching, comparing and million people worldwide through campaigns. In 2012 than 11,000 children at 245 locations other activities. This will also enhance throughout Serbia by donating 600 socialising between refugee and the LEGO Group launched a new YouTube channel, boxes of play material. displaced children with their domestic dedicated to delivering cool LEGO® experiences to peers, and thus facilitate their integration All children had multiple benefits from into their immediate surroundings, which families worldwide. The new channel has already had this donation, both immediate and longis a good basis for their inclusion in the more than 25 million views. The most seen video of term. Playing with LEGO® bricks helped local community later. 2012 was “The LEGO Story” with more than 3.2 million Outside the LEGO Group 123 views. For our corporate communication we have approximately 50,000 followers on Twitter and 38,000 on Google+. The LEGO® CUUSOO crowd sourcing platform reached more than 500,000 unique monthly visitors and the user generated ideas have so far resulted in four new consumer LEGO products. The LEGO Group as partner and collaborator on regulations and standards Where appropriate, the LEGO Group assists governments and organisations in the development and understanding of new toy regulations and standards. We strive to ensure that our external activities, discussions and recommendations benefit all stakeholders and are conducted in a transparent and professional manner in accordance with our policies. In 2012 the LEGO Group’s toy safety experts visited Hong Kong and China in the company of European Commission representatives, to explain the new EU Toy Safety Directive and the supporting new European safety standards to Chinese toy manufacturers, authorities and test laboratories. The LEGO Group also assisted the EU Commission in elaborating guidelines for the interpretation of the new Toy Safety Directive. We also work collaboratively in the US with the Consumer Product Safety Commission to share safety compliance practices that can be adapted for small businesses. With more than 3.2 million views “The LEGO Story” was the most seen video on The LEGO Group’s 124 The LEGO Group Progress Report 2012 YouTube channel in 2012. FOCUS A backpack full of LEGO® toys Travelling the world as a LEGO® employee, I know always to have something with me to play with – and our latest trek in Vietnam was no different. One day, walking through the beautiful valleys we approached a tiny village on a hillside. Quickly a group of children gathered around us and helped us the last few meters to a house where we could spend the night. The owner had two kids aged 6-8 years old. We showed our appreciation and gave the children a small box of LEGO® bricks, and not long after they found out how to master the toy and assembly the model. More children gathered around and now they all shared the fun. A wonderful vacation and remarkable to see how children with no previous knowledge could adapt and learn the skills. Story submitted internally by Lonnie Almy, project supporter, Billund, Denmark. We also take an active part in the development of new toy safety standards in the European Committee FOCUS for Standardisation, the International Organisation for A social media protest Standardisation, as well as in the US standardisation At the beginning of 2012 the LEGO product in, for example, the LEGO® organisation, ASTM International. The LEGO Group Group experienced a campaign City product line. Having cleared has a long history of chairing both European and against LEGO® Friends, our new up this misunderstanding, we were product envisioned to have an appeal able to continue the constructive international standardisation committees and towards girls. Approximately 62,000 dialogue online with both parents and participating in many industry work groups. people signed a petition asking us the activist movements behind the to market the same products equally criticism. Their input has helped and towards boys and girls. inspired us to develop products and We expanded our dialogue efforts with regulators marketing which will bring greater Parents across the world thought we creative construction play to girls in in 2012, to advocate intellectual property rights, toy were launching a LEGO® experience the future. safety and marketing to children, as these are key that was less creative than products we market issues for the LEGO Group, the LEGO® brand and for boys. After the our products. On an ongoing basis we participate product came out, families with girls in international and regional associations such as realised that LEGO® Friends the Toy Industries of Europe, the US Toy Industry products contain just the same number of bricks and building Association, the European brand organisation, and complexity as a comparable the World Federation of Advertisers. In Europe alone, we are active members of 15 Toy Associations and in nine countries the LEGO Group is on the board of the toy association. In 2012, the LEGO Group had many stakeholder visitors and answered numerous questionnaires; however we were unable to accommodate a request by the International Consumer Research and Testing (IRCT) to visit two facilities. All information requested by the IRCT has been provided. We welcome all new visits and questions and we will be as open and transparent as our operations allow. 128 The LEGO Group Progress Report 2012 The LEGO Group advertisement from France 2012 by Grey Translation: Top left: “Their creativity will make you forgive anything”. Bottom right: “Are you ready to forgive anything?” Boundaries for marketing to children Knowing as much as we do about children and play can present us with a dilemma when trying to influence children to wish for a LEGO® product. We do our utmost to communicate the genuine play experience children can expect from a LEGO® product. However, when communicating with children, we are sensitive to the fact that children may perceive marketing messages differently from adults. In 2012 we reviewed our internal principles and our corporate standard on marketing to children together with key internal marketers. Our support in 2012 to Media Smart, a UK originated Media FOCUS Literacy Programme, led to the development of the ‘Digital Adwise Parent Pack’ to help parents and children identify and understand the adverts and A question from UNICEF commercial material they collectively encounter in Bo Viktor Nylund, Senior Advisor, we have failed to attract many girls. ­ the online world. You can find the material at Corporate Social Responsibility, We therefore invited some of these girls Private Fundraising and Partnerships to tell us what would be an interesting http://www.mediasmart.org.uk/ Division, UNICEF: setting for them, if they were to play with You have introduced a product for construction toys – the development of girls recently. It is very positive that the LEGO® Friends was the direct result of Overall we work actively to ensure that our marketing report relates to concerns raised from this participatory process. is conducted responsibly and lives up to our customers in this regard. But, how do your products in general support equal We aim to include as many children stakeholders’ expectations. An example would play and life opportunities for boys as possible in construction play, and be how we work to integrate the Children’s Rights and girls? are therefore pleased to have reached even more children, mostly girls, this and Business Principles no. 6 ‘Use marketing and The LEGO Group: time. The road is now open for them to advertising with respect and support children’s We always aim to listen carefully to discover other of our diverse products, our customers, and we introduced all available for children of both sexes rights’ in our daily marketing approach. LEGO® Friends to add more choice for – we know that e.g. Harry Potter and children. Research shows that girls as LEGO® City have been very popular well as boys are interested in creative among girls. construction play – historically, however, Outside the LEGO Group 133 Issues in a global supply chain – our approach As a global company we face global issues and challenges. We depend on the partnerships we have with our many global partners. In fact, we have made them a promise that requires us to have mutual benefit for our co-operation. Through our approach we want to play an active part in improving the wellbeing for all employees in our supply chain as this helps protect our company’s strong reputation. Approach based on human rights The LEGO Group experiences a growing expectation from society in general and from Non Governmental Organisations that we elevate the promotion of internationally acknowledged human rights. We fully support this expansion, as we recognise that we impact upon a wide range of human rights through Outside the LEGO Group 135 our business activities. As evidenced throughout Code of Conduct this progress report, the LEGO Group is already protecting and supporting human rights in many ways. Examples are children’s right to play, and the rights of employees to a safe and healthy work environment. Major Code of Conduct non-conformities We find that dealing with human rights in a business Indicator at suppliers solved (t context is a massive task with wide-ranging aspects 2012 dedication 100% and dilemmas, which is why we began developing a human-rights strategy in 2011. A key component 2012 realisation 90% of the strategy process is a human-rights impact assessment of our value chain. The impact • More stringent follow-up procedures • Less flexibility regarding extension of deadlines assessment will lead to a list of potential risks and leadership opportunities, which in turn will direct our 2013 roadmap • Continuous focus on working hours human-rights strategy to where the LEGO Group can • Capacity building with suppliers have a positive impact. We expected the work to be finalised and adopted in 2012. However, it has proved 2013 target 100% a more complex task than we foresaw and we have decided to take the time needed to do it right. We estimate the work will be completed in 2013. Our Code of Conduct As a part of our human rights profile, we encourage our suppliers and business partners to respect their employees’ human rights, including providing them with decent working conditions. Since 1997 we have required that our suppliers and business partners sign our Code of Conduct. In order to follow their performance and continuous improvement, we monitor compliance via independent on-site audits – and we engage in proactive co-operation 136 The LEGO Group Progress Report 2012 Outside the LEGO Group 137 and capacity building of our suppliers to promote sustainable supply chains. In 2012 we reviewed our own audit management system resulting in an improved alignment of processes globally. The LEGO Group had 70 core-line suppliers located in high-risk and intermediate-risk countries with possible human rights issues in 2012. During the year we performed 44 audits at these facilities. With a resolution rate for 2012 at 90%, we did not succeed in resolving our target of 100% of major non conformities found at our suppliers. While we are adamant that they will be solved, we prioritise openness and integrity in the dialogue over simple FOCUS timeline compliance. For example, we missed our 2012 target because we extended the deadline for compliance for five findings, but in doing that we were able to reach a satisfactory solution for two of A spotlight on working them already in January 2013. Furthermore we hours in China had to terminate our co-operation with one supplier Working conditions at our suppliers In 2012 our commitment to safe in Asia due to lack of willingness to solve the issue. in China continues to be a focus area and good working conditions was for us and we do whatever possible strengthened. We issued a new to build capacity and be transparent. Code of Conduct which we will be We believe in capacity-building of suppliers as the The Pearl River delta where most of implementing now and in the years our Chinese suppliers are situated ahead. Our requirement of a maximum best way to make progress and avoid copying past is currently struggling with labour working week of 60 hours has been mistakes to new parts of the world. We also find it shortages. This combined with even made more explicit as well as our more competition due to the slowdown commitment to proper remuneration. equally important to be willing to take the tough of the global economy means, the decisions and cease a partnership if no progress is issue seems to be as important as The full code is available on our ever. We also find that migrant workers website. possible – even if it comes at a cost to business. want to work more in order to support their families and not be away from home any longer than necessary. 138 The LEGO Group Progress Report 2012 Code of Conduct In 2012 we developed a working hours control tool and we also seek to solve social issues by improving highlights the effectiveness of our suppliers through a more LEAN manufacturing process. Better utilisation of the production hardware improves the business of our supplier and allows them to adjust, for example, working hours. Child labour must not be engaged in or benefited from. The 2012 edition of the Code of Conduct Forced or compulsory labour must not be used or In 2012, the fifth edition of the LEGO Group’s Code benefited from. of Conduct was published. It features a stronger emphasis on ensuring that our suppliers live up Physical punishment, threats of violence or other to the highest local legislation and international forms of mental or physical coercion or abuse must standards and recommendations from, for not be used. example, United Nations and International Labour Organisation (ILO). Employees must at a minimum be paid the local minimum wage for a standard working week, or the The Code also extends and formulates more precise industry benchmark, whichever is higher. requirements towards our sub-suppliers and ensures that all employees, including migrant workers and The rights of the employees to choose to be a other vulnerable populations such as home-workers, member of a trade union and to bargain collectively are secured a respectable work environment. One as permitted by local laws and regulations must not example is the requirement that no worker works be interfered with or restricted. more than 60 hours a week. Discrimination, directly or indirectly, in hiring and As an addition to the 2012 Code of Conduct all employment practices on grounds of race, colour, suppliers should set specific targets in relation to sex, language, religion, political or other opinion, environmental improvements and set specific targets age, national, social or ethnic origin, property, sexual to drive down waste, energy usage and emissions, orientation, birth or other status must not be engaged alongside recycling products and embedding new in or supported. environmental friendly technologies. 140 The LEGO Group Progress Report 2012 Outside the LEGO Group 141 With all our suppliers we strive to actively engage period per year. The LEGO Group was pleased to and implement the fifth edition of our Code of witness this necessary progress as this is closer Conduct. However, we do expect full implementation to alignment with the LEGO Group requirements. to be adopted in stages in some of the human rights The LEGO Group has been committed to the ICTI high risk countries we operate in. To enforce our (International Council of Toy industries) Care Process position we will leverage the influence we have to since 1 January 2006 (Date Certain commitment). seek the needed progress. Whistle-blower – a way to speak up Responsible Code of Conduct for Our whistle-blower infrastructure gives employees the Outbound Licensing Partners opportunity to report behaviour they consider to be in The LEGO Group requires all of its licensing partners violation of the guidelines that safeguard the integrity to provide written assurance that their vendors and policies of the LEGO Group, as well as any law comply with the LEGO Group Code of Conduct. In or regulation. Employees decide whether he or she 2012 we made sure that licensing partners and their wants to be anonymous. All reports are sent directly to vendors audit their suppliers in risk countries on an the LEGO Group’s General Counsel. Employees can annual basis. This is the same requirement we have communicate in their local language and guidance towards our own suppliers. text is available in our five company languages. The existence of the whistle blower infrastructure has been Collaborating with the industry – ICTI Care Process communicated in articles on our intranet, as part of In 2012, the LEGO Group had 14 suppliers certified an E-learning program mandatory for all Directors and by the ICTI Care Process in Asia. The LEGO Group levels above, and a handbook on business conduct has access to the audit reports and reviews them is given to all employees as part of introduction in continuously. Should there be any major nonDenmark. The whistle blower link can be accessed by conformities with the LEGO Group standards, the employees from the front page of our intranet. LEGO Group will contact the suppliers and, if relevant, conduct on-site inspection to check if corrective Business Integrity action is implemented. Also in 2012 the ICTI Care Doing business in most countries of the world Process announced that from 2013 they will launch a we need to respond to the issue of widespread more ambitious seal which factories can obtain only corruption. According to the United Nations Global if they adhere to a 60 hour working week, although Compact, corruption adds 10% to the cost of doing allowing up to 66 hours of overtime in a twelve week business. We see those resources as a missed 142 The LEGO Group Progress Report 2012 Outside the LEGO Group 143 chance to invest in children’s opportunities and benchmarking of the financial costs related to future. In addition, corruption obstructs children’s production. Through this we are able to compare right to have access to social services such as our internal production cost globally and share schooling and health care. key insights with partners on optimisation of the manufacture expenditure. The openness allows us In 2012 100% of all employees at Director level to better understand the supplier’s pricing model and above completed our biennial e-learning and work with them on the fixed, semi fixed and fully training programme in business integrity. Additional variable costs thereby giving both partners a more employees working directly with customers and focused way of reviewing the overall costs. suppliers have completed the training programme. The training programme explains the LEGO Group’s Tax and other economic impacts position on several business conduct areas, e.g. Tax is a major aspect of business in the community. bribery, antitrust and facilitation payments. On the wider agenda, the economic impact of our business on society is based on the direct and Competition compliance indirect employment and associated money flows, It is imperative for the LEGO Group that its business including tax paid. In 2012 the corporate tax bill for operations reflect real and full compliance with the LEGO Group was DKK 1,909 million, which implies relevant competition laws. Violation of competition an effective tax rate of 25.4%. laws would let children, their parents and our customers down, and could also severely compromise the public reputation of the LEGO Group and expose it to costly and time-consuming investigations and litigation. Further, significant fines could result from violations of competition rules, and the company could even face additional claims for damages from customers and competitors. Share operational knowledge – partners in production With some strategic partners within our operation, we maintain an open book principle to enable 144 The LEGO Group Progress Report 2012 Outside the LEGO Group 145 FOCUS Engaging with licensing partners Through a licensing partnership, contributed to the creation of evolved a Chinese based manufacturer social accountability programmes that produced a series of LEGO® look to root causes and acknowledge licensed books at their facilities. An the responsibilities and influences independent undercover investigation along the entire supply chain. by ‘Students & Scholars Against Corporate Misbehavior group’ Responsible purchasing means (SACOM) reported a malpractice in using your spend in a way that regards to working practices at the supports and impacts cultural, social facility, which is a breach to the LEGO and workplace change. We ensure Group’s Code of Conduct. suppliers that we will support their development, and we are constantly The audit process had identified refining the tools available to do this. similar concerns and engagement However, it is made clear that there with the partner to solve the issues will be commercial consequences at hand has been prioritised. The if the supplier continues to be nonmanufacture of the licensed product compliant. The supplier in question has now been moved to another has responded positively by improving facility complying with the LEGO their working culture and practices, Group’s Code of Conduct. and is actively engaged in an on-going process of improvement. This social Subsequent to the SACOM report, an accountability programme will be extended audit looked into the culture rolled out to all suppliers. of the manufacturer, because if a business and its partnerships are to All licensing partners must comply with be sustainable, a compatible ethical the Code of Conduct and audit their culture must be in place. This has suppliers on an annual basis. Playing it forward – supporting our communities An integrated part of our corporate citizenship is nurturing and supporting communities that are affected by the LEGO Group’s activities. From the local community hosting our production facilities, to the community of people caring for the LEGO® brand and playing with LEGO® play materials, to the global community, the LEGO Group has an important part to play as an advocate for children. To engage locally, value creation is key for both the recipient and the LEGO Group, in the form of building relationships and developing partnerships as part of our employer branding. We are proud of the many activities and ideas our company and products inspire but, we also see a need for more transparency in our engagement with stakeholders, Outside the LEGO Group 149 and more opportunities for generating value through synergies. To achieve this, we are currently revising our strategy for our local community engagement, to focus on more opportunities for collaboration and to strengthen the relationships and community presence we have already developed. FOCUS Local community engagement in Kladno, Czech Republic The contribution from the LEGO Group helped to build non-barrier access to the grammar school in Kladno which allows disabled kids on a wheelchair to attend classes. Furthermore, the cooperation between the LEGO Group and the charity organisation Drop of Hope and Dr. Claun helped to make the time children spent in the hospital a bit more fun. 150 The LEGO Group Progress Report 2012 Philanthropic outreach – access to quality play and learning for children Engaging with the community under the LEGO® brand is to a very large extent carried out through a number of foundations set up by the Kirk Kristiansen family over time; the primary one in terms of outreach being the LEGO Foundation. In 2012, the total value of donated products and financial support from the LEGO Foundation, LEGO Charity and the family foundations was DKK 148 million. In collaboration with international partners such as UNHCR, UNICEF, Save the Children, Médicins Sans Frontiéres, Danish Church Aid and the Danish Refugee Council, the LEGO Foundation donated 21,030 LEGO Charity boxes and 36,470 LEGO sets which reached children in more than 90 countries around the world, from Guatemala and Ghana to Malaysia and Moldova. Outside the LEGO Group 153 The LEGO Foundation world. LEGO Charity supports everything from The LEGO Foundation was founded in 1986, and it minor projects where passionate individuals bring holds 25% of the LEGO Group shares. The activities happiness and creative play to local children, to are based on the belief that all children should have long-term projects in co-operation with partners access to quality play and learning experiences. such as United Nations High Commissioner for The LEGO Foundation has a goal of creating impact Refugees and Save the Children. by inspiring and developing children and youth to become active citizens – and to empower them All LEGO Charity products are packed by LEGO® to create a better future for themselves – through employees or retirees, who are now doing valuable fun, creativity and high quality learning. This is done voluntary work. Over five years ago the first retirees through programmes such as LEGO Charity, Care for volunteered for what began as packing Christmas Education and Care for LEGO Local Communities. presents for children at Danish hospitals. It has now grown to involve more than 175 retired employees, Since 2009, 600,000 students have been involved which each pack LEGO Charity boxes twice a in learning with LEGO® product through the LEGO month. We are very proud to have such dedicated Foundation Care for Education programme, and retired staff. 350,000 children received product donations through LEGO Charity in 2012 alone. In 2012 LEGO Charity packed 21,030 Charity boxes and donated 76,650 LEGO sets and comfort bags The work of the LEGO Foundation is based on the that spread joy and play to children all over the LEGO® Brand Framework and like the LEGO Group, the world. A LEGO Charity box contains eight to ten kilos LEGO Foundation’s mission is to “Inspire and develop of either LEGO elements or LEGO DUPLO® elements. the builders of tomorrow”. Through product donations, grants, education support, teacher education and Care for Education research, LEGO products and hands-on learning This LEGO Foundation programme supports experiences are made accessible to children all over children from preschool age up to senior high the world, irrespective of their social status. school and combines product donations with training for teachers and child-care workers in the Programmes under the LEGO Foundation: LEGO Charity LEGO learning philosophy – System for Learning. The aim of LEGO Charity is to donate LEGO® The programme supports development and products to underprivileged children around the improvement of kindergartens, schools and school 154 The LEGO Group Progress Report 2012 Outside the LEGO Group 155 FOCUS A play-break for underprivileged Filipino children At the beginning of 2012, the American non-profit organisation, Project PEARLS, received a donation from LEGO Charity of six LEGO® Play boxes and six LEGO® DUPLO® Play boxes. The organisation provides help to children in the Ulingan slum community of Manila. Activities include distributing food, providing medical assistance and education. The Ulingan community counts about 400 families. The LEGO® bricks are now used in Project PEARLS’ Brain Booster Programme. The programme runs every Saturday and 150-200 children take part. The activity provides the children with a play-break from their everyday and an opportunity to learn skills. Volunteers teach the children to read, write and count. They offer to help with homework and the children can cut, glue and draw – and now also build, play and learn with LEGO® bricks. systems. Key to this is giving the tools to provide a form of education which motivates children to become involved students, capable of and interested in becoming active members of society. The programme supports projects in various countries from Mexico to Ukraine, China, Brazil, India and South Africa. Care for Education works closely with local ministries of education, NGOs, foundations and private enterprises. In addition to products and training, the programme supports research and organisational development. Care for Education also aims at supporting after school activities such as FIRST LEGO League or World Robotic Olympiad competitions. In 2012, around 200 teams of youngsters were supported through product donations, coaching and travel grants so they too could join these popular robotic competitions. A special effort is made to collaborate with IT companies like American National Instruments to secure quality coaching for some of these teams and help them to eventually get on a path to higher education. 158 The LEGO Group Progress Report 2012 FOCUS Crazy Divas robotic adventure For the last four years, the LEGO Foundation and the UBS Optimus Foundation have helped improve access to education for children in the whole Atteridgeville township (a community of 250,000 inhabitants near Pretoria). However, it became clear that when the students exit the primary school after 7th grade, they also leave the project and their talents are no longer nurtured going forward. So the local LEGO Foundation partner, Hands on Technologies (HOT) set up a resource center in the township offering robotic after-school classes. The first resource center was opened in April 2012 as a small pilot hosting 40 children, and soon after teams which would compete in the national World Robotic Olympiad (WRO) were formed – one of them being ‘the Crazy Divas’ – a team of three girls. These three girls showed so much talent, enthusiasm and passion that they managed to finish second on the WRO competition in South Africa. This is a remarkable achievement for three teenage girls who got their first LEGO MINDSTORMS experiences just five months before. Sponsored by the LEGO Foundation, the Crazy Divas went to the international WRO event in Malaysia in November 2012. Leaving their country for the first time, the three Divas travelled all the way to Kuala Lumpur with a high level of excitement and motivation. Competition was tough and though they did not win, they fought with bravery and smiles all the way as they faced teams from all over the world. The Crazy Divas loved every minute of their experience and the ability to represent their community and promised themselves to practice and keep learning – so they can return and win. Performance and compliance 162 The LEGO Group Progress Report 2012 Performance and compliance 163 Governance The LEGO Group is owned 75% by KIRKBI A/S and 25% is owned by the LEGO Foundation through an investment company. KIRKBI A/S is the holding and investment company of the Kirk Kristiansen Family. Operating responsibly and according to good governance is a major priority for the LEGO Group. Good governance in a family-owned company Corporate governance exists to ensure that directors act in the owners’ interest. In the LEGO® context, the separation of owners’ interests from that of the directors is less of an issue, as the owners are on the Board of Directors and close to the day to day business. Therefore, the LEGO Group has adopted the governance standards to make sense in the context of family ownership that employs Performance and compliance 165 a professional management team and has an The LEGO Group has a decade-long practice of independent Board of Directors. electing the Chairman from among the independent board members. The owners work to ensure Since the establishment of the LEGO Group in professional board management, including the 1932, the company has been privately owned by definition of required board competencies to ensure the Kirk Kristiansen family. Our approach to good a diverse and complementary composition of the corporate governance is focused on combining board, regular board self-assessments, competitive the strengths and benefits of being privately compensation paid to the board of directors, and owned with good corporate governance for listed clear and specific rules on the mandate for each of companies. A benefit associated with being the management bodies in the LEGO Group. privately owned by few family owners include having owners close to the business with strong Furthermore, as a family-owned company, the LEGO industry knowledge and strong values, which can Group is more exposed to the risks involved in be inspiring and supporting for the development of the handover from one generation to the next. To the company and the employees. Other benefits of mitigate this risk, a plan has been prepared and family ownership are the ability to have long-term implemented that secures high involvement of the focus and to move fast and be agile in response to next generation of the family owners in company changes in the business environment. matters related to the ownership. Board of Directors Corporate Management The LEGO Group’s Board of Directors consists of The LEGO Group Management Board and Corporate seven members. Three of these are considered Management team, consist of 22 members dependent on the company; two due to ownership organised in three main areas: Operations, Marketing of KIRKBI A/S, and one due to being in the and Business Enabling. management of the parent company, KIRKBI A/S. The Chairman and three other members are The LEGO Group Management Board consists of the considered to be independent. President and Chief Executive Officer, Jørgen Vig Knudstorp, the Chief Financial Officer, John Goodwin, As a family-owned business, it is important to the Chief Operating Officer, Bali Padda and the Chief maintain a professional management of the company, Marketing Officer, Mads Nipper. The Management including a strong and competent board of directors. Board reports to the Board of Directors. 166 The LEGO Group Progress Report 2012 Performance and compliance 167 Organisational structure The Group Management Board together with 18 Senior Vice Presidents forms the Corporate Management, which is the LEGO Group’s daily management body. The cross-functional nature of Corporate Management facilitates collaboration, quick decisionte Management (C making and clear authority delegation. pora Cor M) Corporate Compliance Board ain Value Ch n The LEGO Group also has a Corporate Compliance innovatio ain Product En Ch & Pro Board which is the highest decision board with g ply ing n Group 1 Gro duct & ine SupPlannbutio Q er Dis tri Eu up 2 respect to non-compliance issues in the LEGO ua in ro s lit g ement Board ( ica Group. Pro pe cu y ag M er cific m rem an B A Pa ging en & mer t &E M ) Ma s i a A kets A Manufamericas on s r Mar The Corporate Compliance Board reviews that: cturing Oper ting Innovation • external regulation is observed in the LEGO at ke i & Consumer EU Packing CEO Marketing Group; Sho • corporate policies and standards are developed ing Mar pper ould O B u sin e ss Cha keting in accordance with the strategic direction, position e M DUPL nne & op Eur urope E n a b li n g l De HR v. and values of the LEGO Group, as well as external &E ive C ut Aff orp regulation; xec ra te ai or rs a E IT te rp o • non-compliances to external regulation and Corporate Co corporate policies and standards are addressed; Finance • ethical issues are addressed in the spirit of the LEGO® brand and values and relevant guidance for the organisation is available. The decision making members are the CFO (Chairman), the General Counsel and the head of Corporate Affairs. The board has an explicit obligation to report to the Board of Directors on compliance matters. 168 The LEGO Group Progress Report 2012 Performance and compliance 169 Creating value with four promises The LEGO Group has a strong focus on ensuring the balance between the value created for the owners, and value creation for the remaining stakeholders of the company such as consumers, employees, customers and other partners. The owner family’s business philosophy is that creating value for the company’s stakeholders will also result in long-term value creation for the owners. The LEGO® Brand Framework, including its four promises to various stakeholder groups, supports this thinking, and therefore is the core foundation for how we do business. Policies The LEGO Group has a framework of 12 corporate policies, which all provide position and guidance on issues. For example our Responsibility Policy ensures that our spirit and company values are not compromised. Our Health and Safety Policy helps to ensure that all our activities are planned and executed in accordance with sustaining a healthy and safe working environment. Please see an overview in the section ‘The LEGO Group’s policies, positions and strategies‘ on page 184. 170 The LEGO Group Progress Report 2012 2012 Consumers 2010 2011 2012 2012 2013 Performance Note Measures Results Results Targets Results Targets a Number of product recalls 0 0 0 0 0 b Consumer complaint call rate 779 623 <=550 792 <=900 Data c Net Promoter Score Index® 120 120 102* 105 105 Employees 2010 2011 2012 2012 2013 Note Measures Results Results Targets Results Targets 1, d Number of employees 9,843 10,790 N/A 12,264 N/A 1 Female 48.6% 47.4% N/A 47.4% N/A 1 Male 51.3% 52.6% N/A 52.6% N/A Average age 36.5 36.4 N/A 36.3 N/A 2, f Rate of employee turnover 9.3% 8.1% N/A 8.8% N/A e,j Director level and above promotions ­(externally recruited or internally ­appointed) of female employees 32% 23% >=30% 34% >=30% g Sick leave 2.2% 2.1% <=2.3% 1.9% 2.2% 3 Number of injuries with absence 44 36 N/A 37 N/A h Injury rate 3.0 2.1 <=1.8 1.9 <=1.5 i Absence rate due to injuries 0.29 0.35 <=0.20 0.18 <=0.14 m Work-life range to global scorecard +4 +6 +0 +6 +0 l Motivation and satisfaction +12 +14 +10 +15 +10 k Employee Net Promoter Score** 60% 62% 62% 56% 62% 172 The LEGO Group Progress Report 2012 Performance and compliance 173 Partners Surrounding environment 2010 2011 2012 2012 2013 2010 2011 2012 2012 2013 Note Measures Results Results Targets Results Targets Note Measures Results Results Targets Results Targets n Percentage of Director level and above u Raw materials, plastic, 1,000 tonnes 42 49 N/A 57 N/A at LEGO Group sites trained in business v Water consumption, 1,000 m3 220 225 N/A 279 N/A integrity biennially 98% 79% 100% 100% 100% w Total energy consumption at production o Number of audits conducted at main sites, GWh 174 198 N/A 224 N/A LEGO sites 20 20 N/A 23 N/A x Energy efficiency improvement n/a +2.4% +2.5% +4.1% +2.5% p Number of major quality non-conformities­ found at main LEGO sites 5 1 0 0 N/A y Waste, tonnes 9.644 11.055 N/A 14.237 N/A p Number of major EHS non-conformities z Recycled waste, % of total registered found at main LEGO sites 8 10 0 0 N/A waste 87% 88% <=88% 88% 90% p Number of major CoC non-conformities found at LEGO sites 1 0 N/A 3 N/A * The NPS definition for 2012 was changed using different measuring points and weighting by consumer impacts. 2011 was new baseline, index 100. q Percentage of major quality, EHS and ** In 2012, the Employee Net Promoter Score is reported as a percentage (reflecting how the metric CoC non-conformities found in audits is fundamentally calculated as %promoters minus %detractors), as this is in line with how it is used at main LEGO Group sites solved in internally both as Leadership target and focus area. If externally benchmarked the LEGO Group is accordance­with corrective action plans n/a n/a 100% 100% 100% +72 percentage points ahead the EEI (56% vs an EEI benchmark of -16%). r Total number of core and extended line *** In 2011, the number included audits held at sub suppliers, thus the numbers has been adsuppliers 117 154 N/A 139 N/A justed from 61 54. **** Correction to 2011 definition used: The percentage of Code of Conduct non-conformities r Number of quality audited suppliers 33 47 N/A 32 N/A found at audited suppliers solved within the agreed timeframe or in process according to the r Number of CoC audited suppliers*** 33 54 N/A 44 N/A corrective action plan. r Number of major quality non-conformities­ The Customer Pulse measure is not available within the reporting time frame and has thus been found at suppliers 26 33 N/A 20 N/A omitted. Going forward the measure will be handled through a direct partnership dialogue with r Number of major CoC non-conformities our customers. found at suppliers 66 64 N/A 46 N/A Target met Taget not met s Percentage of major quality non-conformities found in supplier audits solved in accordance with corrective action plans 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% t Percentage of major CoC nonconformities­found in supplier audits solved in accordance with corrective action plans 100% 98%**** 100% 90% 100% 174 The LEGO Group Progress Report 2012 Performance and compliance 175 Notes to performance data Note 1 Note 5 Code of ISO ISO OHSAS Total number of employees 2010 2011 2012 Third party audits for main LEGO Group sites Conduct 9001 14001 18001 Female 4,790 5,118 5,812 Billund, Denmark 39 23-24 23-24 23-24 Male 5,053 5,672 6,452 Kladno, (MC) Czech Republic 40 40 40 40 Total 9,843 10,790 12,264 Kladno, (Production) Czech Republic 40 40 40 40 Nyíregyháza, Hungary 47 35 35 35 Asia 184 219 224 Monterrey, Mexico 37 38 38 38 Americas and Oceania 2,751 3,286 4,135 Hong Kong, China 44 Europe 6,908 7,285 7,905 Slough, UK 36 Total 9,843 10,790 12,264 Enfield, USA 38 Top management 47 50 54 Munich, Germany 36 Management 310 335 370 Total number of audits 4 6 5 8 Other 9,486 10,405 11,840 Total number of major non-conformities 3 0 0 0 Total 9,843 10,790 12,264 Note 6 Note 2 Total number of suppliers split on New hires, rehires and terminations 2010 2011 2012 Code of Conduct risk assessment Direct Extended Total New hires and rehires 2,731 1,754 2,219 Hong Kong / China 14 17 31 Terminations 753 759 1,305 Mexico 13 0 13 Dismissed 367 336 396 High-risk countries, total 27 17 44 Czech Republic 7 Note 3 Hungary 5 Number of injuries with absence 2010 2011 2012 Italy 2 Americas 6 10 14 Japan 1 Europe 38 26 23 Korea 0 Total 44 36 37 Poland 0 1 Slovakia 4 Note 4 Romania 2 Injury rate per million working hours 2010 2011 2012 Taiwan 0 1 Americas 1.8 2.4 2.7 USA 3 Europe 3.3 2.0 1.6 Intermediate-risk countries, total 24 2 26 Total 3.0 2.1 1.9 176 The LEGO Group Progress Report 2012 Performance and compliance 177 Employees Austria 3 Accounting d) Number of employees Canada 0 policies Comprises all employees paid by the LEGO Group, including permanently employed staff, Denmark 24 7 Data has been calculated by consolidating contractually employed staff, and trainees. The Germany 13 4 data for the parent company (LEGO A/S) with statement is calculated at the end of the year data for all subsidiaries. Consolidation is based and measured as headcount. UK 3 1 on data of a uniform nature and calculated Netherlands 1 using the same methods. However, data e) Job classification relating to health and safety includes only data Top Management comprises all employees at Switzerland 2 from plants with more than 100 employees. Vice President level or above. Management Sweden 11 Similarly, environmental data relates only comprises Senior Directors and Directors. to production facilities. The measurement The director level and above consists of Low-risk countries, total 57 12 69 method remains unchanged from last year. Senior Management and Management. Other Total 57 12 139 Data measurement methods and the basis of employees are included in the group “Others”. calculations are addressed below. f) Rate of employee turnover Note 7 Consumers Employee turnover is measured as the Total number of BOM suppliers audited Code of Conduct Quality a) Number of product recalls number of permanent employees who have Product recalls are calculated as launched voluntarily left the LEGO Group during the Total number of BOM audits 44 32 products recalled from the market due to reporting period compared to the average High-risk countries 33 product safety issues and calculated per number of permanent employees during the stock keeping unit. reporting period. The average is calculated on Intermediate-risk countries 11 the basis of monthly data. The number of new b) Consumer complaint call rate employments and rehires as well as dismissals The consumer complaint call rate is calculated is also stated. Note 8 as the number of consumer complaints Total number of major Code of Conduct ­non-conformities found at suppliers received relating to products launched in g) Sick leave High-risk countries 39 the year of reporting as a parts per million Sick leave is calculated as time lost due to (ppm) of the number of products sold in the the employees’ own illness. The sick leave Intermediate-risk countries 7 launch year. Due to the substantial Christmas is calculated as the number of absence Total 46 trade, and in order to give a true and fair view, hours as a percentage of the total number of complaints received in January of the following working hours excluding holidays and nonyear are also included in the calculation, business days. Only data from sites with more The audits provide a basis for dialogue with the suppliers, and the major non-conformities set the corresponding to a 13-month period. than 100 employees and LEGO® Brand Retail main focus for the continuous improvement process. The 46 major non-conformities for the Code of stores is included. Conduct area can be summarised as: c) Net Promoter Score Index® • 10 related to working hours In connection with consumer contacts and the h) Injury rate per million working hours • 9 related to wages LEGO Group’s online sales, randomly selected The number of occupational injuries is • related to environment consumers are asked how likely they are, on calculated as the number of occupational • 22 related to health & safety a scale from 0-10 (10 = best), to recommend injuries resulting in at least one day’s absence • related to under age labour the purchased product or service to others. following the day of the injury. The rate of • related to freedom of association The development in promoters – levels 9 and occupational injuries is calculated per million • related to employment terms 10 – minus the development in detractors – working hours. Only data from sites with more • related to disciplinary practices levels 6-0 is calculated and shown in this than 100 employees and LEGO® Brand Retail • related to integrity, transparency and corruption Progress Report with 2005 as index basis. stores is included. • 5 related to monitoring and evaluation 178 The LEGO Group Progress Report 2012 Performance and compliance 179 i) Absence rate due to injuries the perfect place of work. How close is this q) Percentage of major quality, EHS and Code action in the reporting year and which have The number of absence hours as a ideal to your place of work?) and compared to of Conduct non-conformities found at audits been solved before the agreed deadline. consequence of occupational injuries. The a comparable benchmark called “LEGO EEI” at main LEGO sites solved in accordance with Non-conformities found at ICTI Care certified rate is calculated per 1,000 working hours, which is calculated as a weighted average of corrective action plans suppliers are not included. and the absence is calculated from the day the EEI (European Employee Index) results for The percentage of major quality, EHS and following the injury. Only data from sites with the eleven largest LEGO® employee countries. Code of Conduct nonconformities found by Surrounding environment more than 100 employees and LEGO® Brand third-party audits at main LEGO Group sites u) Raw materials Retail stores are included. m) Work‑life range to global scorecard which have a deadline for the corrective Raw materials are calculated as plastic The Worklife balance index is based on a action in the reporting year and which have granulate used in manufacturing at LEGO j) Director level and above promotions LEGO® Worklife balance index score on the been solved within the agreed deadline. Group sites. (externally recruited or internally appointed) basis of one question in our annual employee of female employees. The number of female engagement survey “the LEGO Pulse” (I feel r) Data relating to suppliers and v) Water consumption director levels and above promotions good about the workload in my job) and business partners Water consumption is calculated as the (externally recruited or internally appointed) compared to a comparable benchmark called The number of suppliers includes the LEGO quantity of water supplied to the LEGO is shown as a percentage of all promotions “LEGO EEI” which is calculated as a weighted Group’s active direct suppliers calculated at Group. Only data from LEGO Group sites with into the director level and above group of average of the EEI (European Employee the end of the reporting period. The number production is included. employees. Index) results for the eleven largest LEGO® is broken down into direct suppliers and employee countries. extended line suppliers. Direct suppliers w) Energy consumption k) Employee Net Promoter Score deliver bill of material (BOM) components Energy consumption is calculated as the total At the end of the reporting year a survey, Partners whereas extended line suppliers primarily energy in the form of electricity and heating the Employee Pulse, is carried out in which n) Percentage of director level and above deliver merchandise. Suppliers do not include supplied to the LEGO Group. Only data from all employees are asked to evaluate the at LEGO sites trained in business integrity indirect purchases. The number of suppliers the LEGO Group sites with production is LEGO Group as a workplace. The questions biennially who have been audited is calculated as included. cover a wide range of the areas included in The percentage is calculated as director the number of suppliers visited with a view the LEGO Group strategy and measure the level and above (employed for more than to formalised monitoring and reporting of x) Energy efficiency improvement employees’ motivation and commitment. The three months) having completed the compliance with quality standards or Code The energy efficiency improvement is results are used to identify significant target e-learning programme in Business Conduct of Conduct. The number of significant calculated as the rate between energy areas at Group and departmental level. New biennially as a percentage of all director discrepancies is reported. These form the consumption and raw materials used. The measure is Employee Net Promoter Score level and above (employed for more than basis of the continued dialogue with the data is shown with the previous year as (E-NPS) based on the results for the Pulse three months) in the LEGO Group. suppliers in order to continuously work on baseline. Only data from LEGO Group sites question “I would recommend the LEGO improvements. with production is included. Group as an employer to other people”. The o) Number of audits conducted at main LEGO E-NPS is calculated by subtracting number of Group sites s) Percentage of major quality nony) Waste detractors (1-6 on the 10-point scale) from the The number of audits conducted at LEGO conformities found at supplier audits solved in Waste is calculated as the recorded quantities number of active promoters (answering 9-10). Group sites is calculated as third-party audits accordance with corrective action plans of waste disposed of by the LEGO Group. Only The 13 largest LEGO Group employment connected to the certification process or The percentage of major quality nondata from LEGO Group sites with production countries are included in the calculation. voluntary Code of Conduct audits. conformities found at suppliers which have a is included. deadline for the corrective action plan in the l) Motivation & Satisfaction p) Number of major non-conformities found at reporting year and which have been solved z) Recycled waste The Motivation & Satisfaction index is based main LEGO Group sites (Quality/EHS/CoC) within the agreed deadline. The recycled waste percentage is calculated on a LEGO® Motivation & Satisfaction score The number of major quality, EHS and Code of as the recycled quantities of waste disposed calculated on the basis of 4 questions in our Conduct non-conformities found during third t) Percentage of major Code of Conduct noncompared to total quantities of waste annual employee engagement survey “the party audits conducted at LEGO Group sites. conformities found at supplier audits solved in disposed. Only data from LEGO Group sites LEGO Pulse” (1. I always look forward to going accordance with corrective action plans with production is included. to work., 2. I feel motivated in my job., 3. From The percentage of major Code of Conduct an overall point of view, how satisfied are you non-conformities found at audited suppliers with your job at the LEGO Group?., 4. Imagine which have a deadline for the corrective 180 The LEGO Group Progress Report 2012 Performance and compliance 181 The LEGO Group’s About the Report policies, positions and strategies Our Policies http://aboutus.LEGO.com/en-us/LEGO-group/ This Progress Report 2012 and the Annual Report corporate-policies/ 2012 summarise the reporting commitments and Our commitments United Nations Global Compact: the sustainable development initiatives of the LEGO http://aboutus.LEGO.com/en-us/LEGO-group/ code-of-conduct/global-compact/ Group in 2012. ICTI Care: http://aboutus.LEGO.com/en-us/LEGO-group/ The purpose of the Progress Report 2012 is to provide code-of-conduct/icti-care/ our stakeholders with a fair and balanced picture of Sustainability positions http://aboutus.LEGO.com/en-us/sustainability/ our sustainability efforts in 2012. The report provides Strategies and targets http://aboutus.LEGO.com/en-us/sustainability/ goals-and-progress/ an overview of our activities, practices, goals and Certificates US Product Safety Compliance – ECERT: results. The Progress Report 2012 also serves as our http://aboutus.LEGO.com/en-us/LEGO-group/ annual communication on progress in sustainability, product-safety/ as required by the United Nations Global Compact. Code of Conduct (7 languages) http://aboutus.LEGO.com/en-us/LEGO-group/ code-of-conduct/ The report is the statutory statement on Corporate Information on Product Recalls http://service.LEGO.com/en-us/product-recalls/ Social Responsibility according to section 99a of the Corporate News http://aboutus.LEGO.com/en-us/news-room/ Danish Financial Statements Act. The LEGO Group Progress Report archive http://aboutus.LEGO.com/en-us/sustainability/ goals-and-progress/progress-report/ The report is developed in accordance with the main Visit the LEGO Group http://aboutus.LEGO.com/en-us/LEGO-group/ reporting principles of the Sustainability Reporting programmes-and-visits/ Guidelines from the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). 182 The LEGO Group Progress Report 2012 Performance and compliance 183 We are also inspired by the voluntary standard AA1000 Accountability Principles drawn up by the Institute of Assurance statement Social and Ethical Accountability (AccountAbility). The basis of the report, the scope, and the materiality determination are all based on a dialogue with main stakeholders about issues that are material to them. For the 2012 report, we have applied the same model as we have used since 2008 for selecting sustainability content. Earlier reports can be found on our website at www.LEGO.com Assurance Statement for LEGO Group’s Any forward-looking announcements on stakeholders from the independent auditor expectations in relation to the performance of the We have reviewed the consolidated non-financial LEGO Group are subject to risks and uncertainties data of the LEGO Group’s Progress Report for 2012 as which may be beyond the control of the LEGO expressed on pages 172-178. Group. For this reason, actual results may vary from the proclamations made herein. Criteria for preparation of the Progress Report’s non financial data The criteria for preparation of the Progress Report’s non-financial data are the accounting policies described on pages 179-181. These contain information concerning which of the Group’s business areas and activities are included in the reporting, types of data, and Management’s reasons for choosing the data included. The non-financial data are factored in accordance with the accounting policies described on pages 179-181. Read more: http://aboutus.LEGO.com/sustainability 184 The LEGO Group Progress Report 2012 Performance and compliance 185 Delegation of responsibility Conclusion regarding the 2012 Progress Report’s Company Management is responsible for preparing non-financial data the Progress Report’s non-financial data, including for Based on our review, nothing has come to our establishing registration and internal control systems attention causing us not to believe that the with a view to ensuring reliable reporting, specifying consolidated non-financial data of the Progress acceptable reporting criteria as well as choosing data Report of LEGO Group for 2012 have been presented to be collected. Our responsibility is, on the basis of in accordance with the stated criteria. our work, to express an opinion on the 2012 Progress Report’s non-financial data. Copenhagen, 21 February 2013 Scope of our work PricewaterhouseCoopers We have planned and completed our work in Statsautoriseret Revisionspartnerselskab accordance with the International Auditing Standard ISAE 3000 (assurance engagements other than audits or review of historical financial information) for the purpose of obtaining limited assurance that the nonfinancial data presented on pages 172-178 have been Mogens Nørgaard Mogensen computed in accordance with the stated criteria. State Authorised Public Accountant The obtained assurance is limited compared to that of an engagement with reasonable assurance. Our work has thus based on assessment of materiality and risk comprised inquiries regarding applied Henrik Trangeled Kristensen registration systems and procedures, review of State Authorised Public Accountant data used in connection with preparation of the 2012 non-financial data, and review of underlying documentation, including review of whether the scope of the 2012 non-financial data complies with described accounting policies for the 2012 nonfinancial data. During the review process, we have visited entities in Billund, Nyiregyhaza and Slough. 186 The LEGO Group Progress Report 2012 Performance and compliance 187 Global Reporting 1. Strategy and Analysis Page Reporting UN Initiative and UN GRI Indicator Page in PR* in FR** level GCP*** Comments 1.1 Statement from the most senior Introducing the decision maker in the organisation LEGO Group; Global Compact 28-33 1/1 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, Introducing the and opportunities LEGO Group; index 28-33, 18-21 1/1 2. Organizational Profile Page Reporting UN GRI Indicator Page in PR* in FR** level GCP*** Comments 2.1 Name of organization Introducing the LEGO Group; 7, 163 1/1 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/ Introducing the or services LEGO Group; 8 1/1 2.3 Operational structure of the Performance organization, including main divisions, and complioperating companies, subsidiaries, ance; 163-167 and joint ventures 61 1/1 2.4 Location of organization’s Introducing ­headquarters the LEGO Group; 10 1/1 2.5 Number of countries in which the Introducing organisation operates, and names of the LEGO countries with either major operations Group; 10 or which are specifically relevant to the sustainability issues covered in the report 1/1 2.6 Nature of ownership and Performance legal form and compliance; 163-164 1/1 2.7 Markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, and types of customers/beneficiaries) 1/1 188 The LEGO Group Progress Report 2012 Performance and compliance 189 Page Reporting UN Page Reporting UN GRI Indicator Page in PR* in FR** level GCP*** Comments GRI Indicator Page in PR* in FR** level GCP*** Comments 2.8 Scale of the reporting Performance 3.5 Process for defining report Introducing the ­organization and complicontent LEGO Group; ance; 181 1/1 20-21 1/1 2.8.1 Number of employees Introducing 3.6 Boundary of the report Performance the LEGO and compliGroup; 10 1/1 ance; 183-184 1/1 2.8.2 Number of operations Introducing 3.7 State any specific limitations on Performance the LEGO the scope or boundary of the report and compliGroup; 10 1/1 ance; 183-184 1/1 2.8.3 Net sales 12 1/1 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint venPerformance tures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, and compli2.8.4 Total capitalization broken down outsourced operations, and other ance; 183-184 in terms of debt and equity 14-15 1/1 entities that can significantly affect 2.8.5 Quantity of products or comparability from period to period services provided 12 1/1 and/or between organizations 1/1 2.9 Significant changes during the Performance 3.9 Data measurement techniques Performance reporting period regarding size, and compliand the bases of calculations, includand compli­structure, or ownership ance; 183 1/1 ing assumptions and techniques ance; 179-181 underlying estimations applied to 2.10 Awards received’ in the the compilation of the Indicators and reporting period 1/1 **** other information in the report 1/1 3.10 Explanation of the effect of any No re-statere-statement of information provided ments made in 3. Report Parameters in earlier reports, and the reasons for 2012 such re-statement 1/1 Page Reporting UN GRI Indicator Page in PR* in FR** level GCP*** Comments 3.11 Significant changes from previNo changes ous reporting periods in the scope, made in 2012 3.1 Reporting period Performance boundary, or measurement methods (e.g. fiscal/calendar year) for and compliapplied in the report 1/1 ­information provided ance; 183-184 1/1 3.12 Table identifying the location of Performance 3.2 Date of most recent previous Performance the Standard Disclosures in the report and complireport and compliance; 188-197 ance; 184 1/1 3.13 Policy and current practice with Performance 3.3 Reporting cycle (annual, biennial, Performance regard to seeking external assurance and complietc.) and complifor the report ance; 185-187 1/1 ance; 183 1/1 3.4 Contact point for questions Performance ­regarding the report or its contents and compliance; 198 1/1 190 The LEGO Group Progress Report 2012 Performance and compliance 191 4 Governance, Commitments, and Engagement Page Reporting UN Page Reporting UN GRI Indicator Page in PR* in FR** level GCP*** Comments GRI Indicator Page in PR* in FR** level GCP*** Comments 4.1 Governance structure of the Performance 4.15 Basis for identification and Introducing the organization, including committees and compliselection of stakeholders with whom LEGO Group; under the highest governance body ance; 165-167 to engage. 20-21 1/1 responsible for specific tasks, such 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder Outside the as setting strategy or organizational engagement, including frequency of LEGO Group; oversight 1/1 engagement by type and by stake120-133 4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the Performance holder group 1/1 highest governance body is also an and compliexecutive officer ance; 167-169 1/1 4.3 For organizations that have a unitary board structure, state the Performance and compliEconomic number and gender of members of ance; 114, Page Reporting UN the highest governance body that are 165-167 GRI Indicator Page in PR* in FR** level GCP*** Comments independent and/or non-executive EC1. Direct economic value generOutside the members 1/1 ated and distributed, including LEGO Group; 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and Outside the revenues, operating costs, employee 172 employees to provide recommenLEGO Group; compensation, donations and other dations or direction to the highest 109-111, 143 community investments, retained governance body 1/1 earnings, and payments to capital providers and governments 9 1/2 4.7 Process for determining the comPerformance position, qualifications, and expertise and compliEC 2. Financial implications and Introducing the of the members of the highest ance; 164-169 other risks and opportunities for the LEGO Group; governance body and its committees, organization’s activities due to climate 28-33 including any consideration of gender change 1/1 7 and other indicators of diversity 1/2 4.8 Internally developed stateOutside the ments of mission or values, codes of LEGO Group; Environment conduct, and principles relevant to 135-143 Page Reporting UN economic, environmental, and social Performance GRI Indicator Page in PR* in FR** level GCP*** Comments performance and the status of their and compliimplementation ance; 182 1/1 EN1. Materials used by weight or Making LEGO ® volume play materials; 4.9 Procedures of the highest Performance 91 1/2 8 governance body for overseeing the and compliorganization’s identification and manance; 165-167 EN3. Direct energy consumption by Making LEGO ® agement of economic, environmental, primary energy source play materials; and social performance 1/2 92-93 1/2 8 ÷ split 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization 1/1 ***** 192 The LEGO Group Progress Report 2012 Performance and compliance 193 Labor Practices and Decent Work Page Reporting UN Page Reporting UN GRI Indicator Page in PR* in FR** level GCP*** Comments GRI Indicator Page in PR* in FR** level GCP*** Comments EN4. Indirect energy consumption by Making LEGO ® LA1. Total workforce by employment Performance primary source play materials; type, employment contract, and and compli92-93 1/2 8 ÷ split region, broken down by gender ance; 176 1/1 EN5. Energy saved due to Making LEGO® LA2. Total number and rate of new Performance ­conservation and efficiency play materials; ÷ improveemployee hires and employee and compli­improvements 92-93 1/2 8, 9 ments ­turnover by age group, gender, and ance; 176 ÷ age region 1/2 6 group EN6. Initiatives to provide energyMaking LEGO® efficient or renewable energy based play materials; LA7. Rates of injury, occupational Making LEGO® products and services, and 92 diseases, lost days, and absenteeism,­ play materials; ­reductions in energy requirements as and total number of work-related 102-107 a result of these initiatives 1/2 8, 9 fatalities, by region and by gender Performance and compli÷ by EN8. Total water withdrawal by source Making LEGO ® ance; 176 1/2 1 gender play materials; 109 1/2 8 ÷ source LA13. Composition of governance Making LEGO® bodies and breakdown of employees play materials; EN16. Total direct and indirect Making LEGO ® per employee category according 115 ­greenhouse gas emissions by weight play materials; ÷ total to gender, age group, minority group Only gov93 1/2 8 scope 1+2 membership, and other indicators of ernance EN18. Initiatives to reduce greenMaking LEGO® diversity 1/2 1, 6 bodies ÷ quantihouse gas emissions and reductions play materials; fied CO2 achieved 93 1/2 7, 8, 9 reduction EN22. Total weight of waste by type Making LEGO® Human Rights Performance and disposal method play materials; Page Reporting UN 98-99 1/2 8 ÷ type GRI Indicator Page in PR* in FR** level GCP*** Comments EN26. Initiatives to mitigate Making LEGO® HR2. Percentage of significant suppliOutside the ­environmental impacts of products play materials; ers, contractors, and other business LEGO Group; and services, and extent of impact 90-99 partners that have undergone human 136-143 mitigation 1/2 7, 8, 9 rights screening, and actions taken Performance and compli1, 2, 3, ance; 174 1/2 4, 5, 6 HR6. Operations and significant supPerformance pliers identified as having significant and complirisk for incidents of child labor, and ance; 176-178 measures taken to contribute to the effective abolition of child labor 1/2 1, 2, 5 194 The LEGO Group Progress Report 2012 Performance and compliance 195 Notes Society Performance * The LEGO Group Progress Report 2012 Page Reporting UN ** The LEGO Group Financial Report 2012 GRI Indicator Page in PR* in FR** level GCP*** Comments *** United Nations Global Compact Principle **** Walmart: Toy Supplier of the Year 2011 (Q1 2012 to LEGO Systems A/S) SO1. Percentage of operations with Outside the The Mexican Centre of Philantrophy: Socially Responsible Business implemented local community enLEGO Group; (Q1 2012 to LEGO Operaciones de Mexico) gagement, impact assessments, and 149-161 Toys ‘R’ Us: Vendor of the Year (Q4 2012 to LEGO South Africa) development programmes 1/2 Not the exhaustive list. SO3. Percentage of employees Outside the ***** Consumers (Children); Customers/Suppliers; Employees; Toy industry associations; trained in organization’s anti-corrupLEGO Group; Media; Local communities; Interest groups and trade associations tion policies and procedures 144 1/2 10 ****** The LEGO Group currently chairs: The International Standardisation Organisation’s Technical Committee for the Safety of Toys; The European Standardisation SO5. Public policy positions and 1,2, 3, Organisation’s Technical Committee for the Safety of Toys; Toy Industry of Europe’s participation in public policy develop4, 5, 6, Membership Committee; Toy Industry Association’s board of directors; Toy Industry ment and lobbying 7, 8, 9, Association’s (US) Safety, Standards and Technical Committee 1/1 10 ****** Product Responsibility Performance Page Reporting UN GRI Indicator Page in PR* in FR** level GCP*** Comments PR2. Total number of incidents of The brick; non-compliance with regulations and 58-60 voluntary codes concerning health and safety impacts of products and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes 1/2 1 PR5. Practices related to customer Outside the satisfaction, including results of surLEGO Group; veys measuring customer satisfaction 120-128 1/2 PR6. Programmes for adherence to Outside the laws, standards, and voluntary codes LEGO Group; related to marketing communications, 133 including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship 1/2 ÷ by type 196 The LEGO Group Progress Report 2012 Performance and compliance 197 Photo copyrights The LEGO Group Page 94: The LEGO Group Progress Report 2012 6: The LEGO Group 100/101: The LEGO Group is published for the LEGO Group by Design: Kontrapunkt A/S 9: The LEGO Group 104/105: The LEGO Group Corporate Communications. Print: Scanprint a/s 12/13: The LEGO Group 107: The LEGO Group Paper: Munken Print White 18 22: The LEGO Group 108: The LEGO Group Editor in chief: Charlotte Simonsen, and Invercote G 26/27: The LEGO Group 113: The LEGO Group Senior Director, Corporate Communications. Copies: 7000 28: The LEGO Group 116/117: The LEGO Group 39: The LEGO Group 122: The LEGO Group Contact point for questions: Morten Read more about the LEGO Group: 40/41: The LEGO Group 125: The LEGO Group Vestberg, Sustainability Communication http://aboutus.LEGO.com/sustainability 45: The LEGO Group 126/127: Lonnie Almy private Manager, Corporate Communications, 46: The LEGO Group 129: The LEGO Group sustainability@LEGO.com LEGO®, the LEGO® logo, DUPLO, 48/49: The LEGO Group 130/131: The LEGO Group LEGENDS OF CHIMA, HEROICA, 52/53: Braden Fastier/Newspix 134: The LEGO Group Aastvej 1 MINDSTORMS and the Minifigure are 62/63:The LEGO Group 147: Anna Jarmolowicz DK-7190 Billund, Denmark trademarks of the LEGO Group. 64: The LEGO Group 148: The LEGO Foundation Telephone: +45 79 50 60 70 ©2013 The LEGO Group 68/69: Francesca private 151: The LEGO Foundation CVR-no: 54 56 25 19 70/71:The LEGO Group 152: The LEGO Foundation Net Promoter®, NPS® and Net Promoter 72:The LEGO Group 157/158: The LEGO Foundation Reporting year: January 1 Score® are trademarks of Satmetrix 76: The LEGO Group 159: The LEGO Group – December 31 2012 Systems Inc, Bain & Company and Fred 78/79: The LEGO Group 160/161: The LEGO Foundation Reichheld. No. 001 81: The LEGO Group 164: The LEGO Group 82: The LEGO Group 171: The LEGO Group 84: The LEGO Group 200-201: Anna Jarmolowicz 86/87: The LEGO Group The LEGO Group Aastvej 7190 Billund Denmark Tel.: +45 79 50 60 70 www.LEGO.com Annual Report In the Annual Report you will find detailed information on the LEGO Group’s financial results for 2012. aboutus.LEGO.com
