2011 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS ‘Building a Sustainable Future’ CONTENTS REPORT OVERVIEW ii FROM THE PRESIDENT’S DESK iii NAC COMPANY SNAPSHOT iv PERFORMANCE HIGHLIGHTS v PERFORMANCE HIGHTLIGHTS vi FUTURE GOALS vii REPORT BREAKDOWN viii HUMAN RIGHTS 1 SAFETY & HEALTH 2 PROFESSIONAL GROWTH 3 GREEN VALUE 4 SUSTAINABLE MAIL PRODUCTS (FSC) 5 SUSTAINABLE MAIL PRODUCTS (SFI) 6 CLIMATE PROTECTION 7 WATER STEWARDSHIP 8 SUPPLY CHAIN ENGAGEMENT 9 GLOBAL COMMUNITY OVERVIEW 10 GLOBAL COMMUNITY 11 GLOBAL COMMUNITY IMPACT 12 NAC COMMITMENTS 13 CORPORATE OVERVIEW 14 GRI REPORTING INDEX 15 UN GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIPLES 16 2011 Communication on Progress i SCOPE The 2011 Communication on Progress of this report shall mean “NAC and its encompasses company performance, partner company, NAMS”. Unless othinitiatives and statements for North erwise stated references to “NAC faciliAmerican Communications (NAC), and ties, operations, systems and locations” its partner company, North American shall mean “NAC and NAMS facilities, Mailing Services (NAMS). operations, systems, and locations.” Use of the words “we” and “our” within The boundary of the report is limited the scope of this report shall mean of, to January 2011 through December 2011. This is NACs third CSR report. Rebelonging to, or on behalf of “NAC and ports for previous years can be viewed its partner company, NAMS”. at http://www.unglobalcompact.org/ COPs/detail/8271 METRICS OVERVIEW Company statistics are calculated per NAC is currently in the process of imcalendar year, and represent all U.S. and proving its systems for data collection Mexico locations. and metrics analyses. Indicators describing corporate performance can Unless otherwise noted, statistics referbe found on pp. v-vi. To maximize the enced in this report represent combined quality of company data in the future, averages of data sets from all NAC and NAC is exploring options for obtaining NAMS facilities. third-party assurance for upcoming reports. COMPANY REFERENCES & STATEMENTS Reference to “NAC” within the scope ii 2011 Communication on Progress FROM THE PRESIDENT’S DESK Dear fellow stakeholders, Since we opened our doors in 1934, North American Communications has grown to be the largest bi-national direct mail manufacturer in the United States. As our company has grown, the impact we make on the community around us has grown as well. With such success comes not only a responsibility, but an obligation to conduct our business in a manner that is respectful to the people and environment that surround us. I am pleased to restate NAC’s commitment to the United Nations Global Compact. In our third annual Communication on Progress we will demonstrate how we continually incorporate the 10 principles in the areas of Human Rights, Labor, Environment and Anti-corruption into the corporate culture of our company. Sincerely, Rob Herman President & COO 2011 Communication on Progress iii founded in 1934 COMPANY North American Communications, Inc. (NAC) has grown impressively from its roots in envelope manufacturing, now proudly calling itself the largest, bi-national direct mail manufacturer in the United States. With regionalized production locations in the U.S. and Mexico, NAC markets a diverse portfolio of direct mail products and services for customers across North America. From SNAPSHOT imaging and design to postal optimization and shipping, NAC direct mail packages enable companies to reach their clients and prospects. iv 2011 Communication on Progress 2011 PERFORMANCE PERFORMANCE HIGHLIGHTS Total NAC and NAMS locations and facilities1 2010 3 2011 3 PROGRESS n/a Average total workforce (non-hourly employees) 1,064 1,184 n/a WORKPLACE HUMAN RIGHTS & WELL-BEING Percentage of employees receiving training on human rights & 100% 100% 0 Open-Door Policy2 Percentage of security personnel receiving training on upholding 100% 100% 0 human rights while providing security3 Percentage of senior management positions occupied by women 36% 29% -7% Percentage of senior management positions occupied by minorities 35% 25% -10% Percentage of total workforce comprised of women 40% 40% 0 Percentage of total workforce comprised of minorities 68% 60% -8% SAFETY & HEALTH Total number of formal health and safety training programs 58 39 -19 provided to employees4 Percentage of employees receiving general health and 100% 100% 100% safety training3 Number of patient visits at on-site NAC health clinic 25,008 21,000 4,008 PROFESSIONAL GROWTH Percentage of corporate locations employing KSA tool sets for 100% 100% 100% career development in production departments MARKETPLACE VALUE PRODUCT & SERVICE QUALITY Total number of mail units produced 712,802,458 825,961,668 113,159,210 Percentage of mail units produced with no errors 98.5% 98.6% 0.1% Number of customer complaints warranting actions 6 17 -9 Number of customer complaints due to loss of data or breach in 0 0 0 privacy6 Percentage of customer complaints warranting action that received 100% 100% 0 action6 VALUE CREATION Number of value-added services offering carbon reduction benefits 5 5 5 2011 Communication on Progress v PERFORMANCE 2010 2011 PROGRESS SUSTAINABLE MAIL PRODUCTS Percentage of corporate production facilities with FSC 100% 100% 0 Chain-of-Custody Certification Percentage of corporate production facilities with SFI 100% 100% 0 Chain-of-Custody Certification ENVIRONMENT WATER STEWARDSHIP Reductions in water consumption due to company-wide efficiency 47,015,203 55,271,657 8,256,454 initiatives (gallons) PAPER SAVINGS Pounds of paper recycled 17,071,718 17,240,150 168,432 Number of trees saved due to company-wide efficiency initiatives 125,347 125,542 195 CLIMATE PROTECTION Reductions in landfill space use due to company-wide efficiency 24,030 24,324 294 initiatives (cubic yards) Reductions in air pollutant emissions due to company-wide effi4,627,092 4,666,253 39,161 ciency initiatives (pounds) Reductions in energy consumption due to company-wide efficien413,379,503 503,680,632 90,301,129 cy initiatives (KWH) SUPPLY CHAIN ENGAGEMENT Percentage of paper suppliers with SFI certification n/a 100% 100% Percentage of paper suppliers with FSC certification n/a 100% 100% GLOBAL COMMUNITY Total charitable contributions for social development $42,000 $17,500 -$24,500 Percentage of charitable contributions by category: Economic Development 56% 3% -53% Health & Social Services 25% 25% 1% Education 7% 16% 9% Culture & the Arts 10% 56% 46% 1 Inclusive of all NAC and NAMS locations in the U.S. and Mexico. 2 Human rights initiatives are company-wide, but quantitative information represents U.S. facilities only. 3 Statistics are available for U.S. facilities only. 4 Health & Safety initiatives are company-wide, but quantitative information represents U.S. facilities only. 5 Refers to the adaption of the NAC KSA model for company locations in Mexico. 6 “Complaints” are defined as subjective complaints pertaining to issues such as color match. vi 2011 Communication on Progress WORKPLACE · Create and publish corporate Leadership Principles · Improve and expand corporate employee assesment, development and evaluation programs MARKETPLACE · Identify and implement methods to calculate environmental and financial benefits of value-added services ENVIRONMENT · Replace all 400w lamps with 200w bulbs · Develop a system to better track the energy emission of all in house processes to determine where improvements can be made · Improve the Water Reuse Program with the installation of water meters in order the track the recycled gallons with exact numbers SUPPLY CHAIN · Building strong relationships with suppliers to create a sustainable supply chain GLOBAL COMMUNITY · Create a formal budget for investment in Global Community projects · Increase global community involvement and contributions FUTURE GOALS 2011 Communication on Progress vii WP MP REPORT BREAKDOWN WP WORKPLACE EN MP MARKETPLACE EN ENVIRONMENT SC SUPPLY CHAIN GC GLOBAL COMMUNITY SC GC viii 2011 Communication on Progress North American Communications began production as a small envelope manuWP facturer more than 50 years ago. In those 50 years NAC has become well aware that every success and victory is solely due to the efforts of each individual employee. From the machine operators, to the sales representatives, to upper management; no positive outcome can be reached without the proper function of every company tier. It is with all employees in mind that we continue to fully support and integrate the Universal Declaration of Human Rights into all company policies. Upon hire at NAC, every team member receives our NAC Associate Handbook and is guided through our New Hire Orientation Program. This program is to ensure our new employees have a solid understanding of our policies regarding equal opportunity employment, freedom of association; as well as the elimination of forced labor, child labor, employee discrimination, harassment and workplace violence. Administrative offices at both our United States and Mexico facilities adhere to a rigid Open-Door Policy. Any employee at any rank is encouraged to report any lapse in or violation of human rights without fear of retaliation or negative consequence. All reports will be investigated and assessed on an individual basis in accordance to NAC’s Compliant Management Procedures. In 2011, NAC’s Personal Data Protection Law was implemented in Mexico to regulate the collection and handling of all employee personal data. It recognizes the rights of the individual to protect their data as well as the needs of the company to collect, use or disclose personal data for legitimate purposes. Human rights 2011 Communication on Progress 1 Safety & health WP As our employees are the driving force behind all of our success, the safety of all NAC employees, during work hours and otherwise, is always first and foremost. Both the United States and Mexico facilities take necessary steps in accident prevention and incorporate employee training in various areas to increase awareness in public health and safety. With new advancement in the health and medical field being made every day, we recognize the importance of up to date employee training and education. Disposal of Biologic Infectious Waste is a seminar introduced in 2011 to all medical staff at the Mexico Clinic to ensure the safe and proper disposal of infectious waste. Specifically geared to healthcare professionals, the Basic Life Support (BSL) course was also implemented in 2011. Healthcare employees learn to recognize several life threatening emergencies, provide CPR to victims of all ages, use an AED, and relieve choking in a safe, timely and effective manner. Other training sessions and courses available in different areas include Blood Pathogens, Biological Residue Management and Chemical Substance Management. NAC is constantly making improvements and updating services offered to better accommodate our employees. Recent changes in our clinic to better aid patients include cafeteria audits, hearing protection, mobile equipment, blood pathogens, dangerous substance and visual testing. NAC provides comprehensive medical benefits to all hourly and full time employees, but also recognize that this does not stop at doctor’s visits. At our Duncansville, Pennsylvania facility we invited a nutritionist from the Altoona Regional Health Center to speak on heart healthy eating habits, in a seminar that was open to all company associates. Additionally, flu shots were offered to all associates on-site at no cost. 2 2011 Communication on Progress MP Professional growth North American Communications encourages the individual growth and professional development of all associates. We are committed to providing enrichment and training at all employment levels to strengthen the company from the inside out. Through these channels and networks of learning, NAC is able to ensure continual progress that positively impacts our associates as well as our performance as a whole. In 2011, we implemented a number of training courses specifically geared to management so they may better maintain department standards. These new courses include: -Leadership and Communication -Recipients For Payroll -Management in Two Cultures -Internal Controls To Close Payroll -Leadership Transition -Savings Fund -Application of Disciplinary Action -Occupational Health -Permute -RIT – HR Internal Rules -Professional Ethic -High Performance Teams -Federal Law of Personal Data Protection -Pre-Payroll In May of 2011, NAC Duncansville educated associates about new AFLAC products/ insurance options now available and gave information regarding what will be becoming available in the near future. Open enrollment was held in June of 2011 as well as again in December. In June of 2011, we conducted three plant wide, mandatory safety training days. These courses were intended to ensure all employees are not only aware of standard operating safety procedures, but also know how to implement them in any event necessary. Also in June of 2011, the Duncansville facility administered a mandatory Family and Medical Leave Act training for all managers. The FMLA is in place to allow eligible employees to take unpaid, job-protected leave for specified family and medical reasons with continuation of group health insurance coverage under the same terms as if the employee had not taken leave. 2011 Communication on Progress 3 MP Green value North American Communications has survived in a time of immense industrial change. At the company's inception over 30 years ago, business was conducted in a different manner, on a much smaller spectrum. What NAC has become was barely imaginable then. In order to thrive we have had to evolve our products and services to the changing needs of not only our clients but also the world around us. Converting Envelope conversion (the production of envelopes) is what NAC has specialized in from the very beginning. Over time, we have adapted this process to improve the green value. The chemicals used in the converting process are actually different from those used in the printing process. We use water and clay based inks that are non-toxic and landfill friendly. We utilize water-based glues with the lowest possible toxicity. We have an in-house protocol for the handling of all wastewater and ink. All wastewater is collected and treated to be safely released through standard sewer systems. All ink is collected and able to be disposed of without additional treatment. All waste poly (window film) is collected and sent to a recycling center. North American Communications has employed an independent research firm as well as submits to auditing conducted by municipal authorities. Commingling While initially valued by customers for decreasing postage rates, commingling is now being recognized for its environmental impact. This process of blending client mail streams to increase zip density and mail saturation in order to hit postage discounts also reduces carbon emission. The 4 2011 Communication on Progress MP Sustainable mail products North American Communications is the largest bi-national direct mail manufacturer in the United States. With Social Responsibility in the industry taking center stage, we know that the continual success in the development of sustainable mail products and services is our place to shine. Forest Stewardship Council Product Progress In 2011, we noticed a measurable shift in what our consumers wanted. We purchased $327, 853.22 in raw FSC certified paper stock, creating a total of 21,387,000 components and mailing a total of 14,885,831 finished packages. These figures are up approximately 2% from our findings in 2010. Demand for FSC logo continues to grow throughout our client base. In 2011 NAC mailed 19,840,929 components that were produced on FSC paper. FSC Certified Product Sales accounted for $472,400.49 of total product sales. NAC has purchased $327,853.22 in raw FSC certified paper stock in 2011, creating a total of 21,387,000 individual components and mailing a total of 14,885,831 finished packages. In 2010, NAC produced 25,369,601 FSC stock components. In 2011, NAC purchased 21,387,000 FSC stock components and mailed 19,840,929. To date, FSC certified stock usage accounts for 1.8% of overall products. For the past two years we have continued to educate our associates, as well as our stakeholders and supply chain in the benefits and necessity of environmentally responsible practices. We are dedicated to considering components outside of our sphere of daily business; to think more consciously and to ultimately be as ‘green’ as our industry allows. While our overall usage of FSC certified products is directly related to the demand of our client base, we seek to heighten that demand through spreading knowledge and channels of learning within our chain of custody programs. Our goal for 2012 is to utilize FSC certified paper for at least 50% of all marketing materials created by NAC. FSC materials are now our preference for internal everyday use. We plan to push our FSC products through a stronger marketing campaign. We want our consumers to know not only what FSC means, but to understand what it means that NAC holds a FSC Chain of Custody Certification. MP Sustainable mail products Sustainable Forestry Initiative In 2011, NAC saw significant growth in the use of SFI certified stock. This is the first year that our clients have specifically chosen to not only use SFI certified paper sources, but many have elected to promote their socially responsible decision on printed inserts. This works as marketing themselves as environmentally conscious companies, as well as promoting SFI, and educating others in their supply chain. In 2011, NAC created a total 173,613,340 and mailed a total of 154,929,705 mail packages that contained components printed on SFI certified stock. All SFI labeled paper was purchased by NAC for each client, for a specific job. SFI sales accounted for $571,180.00 of total product sales. In 2011, SFI certified stock accounted for 5.3% of overall product usage. In 2012, we plan on utilizing SFI certified materials for 50% of all marketing materials created by NAC. We will strengthen our marketing for SFI certified products. By engaging our associates, we seek to spread knowledge from the core of our company outward. By promoting SFI awareness on all company tiers, we believe social consciousness will spread to our supply chain and to our competitors alike. EN Climate protection Any large corporation in operation today has now become very aware of their carbon footprint. NAC is a company dealing with the mass production of paper products, thus we are even more attuned with what natural resources we utilize and how to conduct our business with the least possible impact. Every year we conduct Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) and Sustainable Forestry Initiative (SFI) training courses. NAC is certified by both programs, and we believe it is important for our associates to know what we are trying to accomplish. The FSC is an international non-profit organization established to promote the responsible management of the world’s forests. The SFI is a forest certification standard that ensures the protection of biodiversity, wildlife, water quality and promotes prompt regeneration. Climate Protection At NAC, we know that small changes have large outcomes. In 2011 NAC Mexico installed the free heating system in our second building. This system redirects the hot air from compressors in the first building into the second building, virtually eliminating extra heating costs and expelled energy. We injected 1,000,000 BTUs/hr into the second building, the equivalent of five hanging furnaces, greatly reducing our natural gas consumption. In 2011 we also implemented our in house energy savings task. This task enforces the shutting down of every single piece of equipment and closing every valve (vacuum and air) that is not being used, breaks in production included. We began this process in the last quarter of last year and it is now standard operating procedure. The same practice is applied to all lighting units. Future Goals In 2012 and 2013, NAC is systematically replacing all 400w lamps with 200w bulbs. We are developing a system to better track the energy emission of all in house process to determine where improvements can be made. In 2011 we began the extensive project of replacing all air conditioning units with lasers to swamp coolers. These coolers will use only 10% of the power consumption of a standard air conditioning unit. This transition would save energy as well as decrease carbon emissions. At this point the project is in comparative stages, evaluating other units at neighboring maquiladoras in Mexico. 2011 Communication on Progress 7 With a facility in Mexico as well as the United States, NAC is conscious of the importance of the conservation and protection of clean water, in developing and thriving countries alike. Water Stewardship is a fairly new term that’s quickly becoming more prevalent throughout corporate dialogues, proof that more companies are seeking to improve the cleanliness and the proficiency of their internal operations. NAC Mexico has a Water Reuse Program in place. In 2011, we recycled 19,000 gallons of water. Previously in 2010, a low precipitation year, 2,100 gallons of water were recycled. Future Goals In 2012 we plan to improve the Water Reuse Program with the installation of water meters in order the track the recycled gallons with exact numbers. Water stewardship EN 8 2011 Communication on Progress SC Supply chain engagement Our supply chain is an interweaving system of people, activities, information and resources. This is how we are able to move our product in its most raw form to our clients’ consumers, in its most polished form. The integrity of those in this system is just as important to us as our very own. At NAC Mexico, we offer two separate and annual training courses for cafeteria personnel. These associates are not employed by NAC, but by an outside vendor. The first is a course covered under the Wasted Tramp-Law Permission AR02 Water Care stating it is required by the Water Commission that all suppliers handling chemicals and foodstuffs must have training in the proper disposal of these items to avoid water contamination. The second is a training course that thoroughly covers the disposal of all organic infectious waste. 2011 Communication on Progress 9 GC Global community Because of advances in technology in the last 20 years, the industrial world is a much different place. International companies can work in unison, while they are continents apart. The world has become much smaller. We have more access to one another as businesses and more importantly as people. NAC has always been dedicated to helping where we can and now have the opportunity to broaden that scope. We are truly a part of a global community. In 2011 NAC focused on helping three unique and equally amazing organizations. 10 2011 Communication on Progress Global Community Highlights Panzi Foundation Panzi is an organization that began in 2010 in the Democratic Republic of the Congo. Their focus is to raise awareness of the turbulence in DR Congo and to work with Panzi Hospital to create a safe place to heal women and restore lives. NAC was pleased to design their website, as well as print brochures, postcards letterheads and outers to help aid their fight. BeadforLife This organization will forever be very close to the heart of North American Communications. BFL seeks to create sustainable opportunities for women in Uganda, so they may pull themselves and their families from poverty. Each beautiful bead, hand rolled out of recycled paper represents a changing life. The strength of these women is unbelievable, and NAC has been dedicated to the cause for years. We are more than happy to donate our printing services for their marketing materials and brochures. NAC associates have taken trips to Uganda to visit the BeadforLife village. We use beads in our marketing and at tradeshows in order to raise awareness and get other corporations involved. We will continue to work hand in hand with BFL and be inspired by their courage. Through Inc This is a local organization that NAC is more than happy to assist. The benefits of Through ripple throughout our community and are felt right here at home. This non-profit seeks to provide a safe place for anyone who is struggling with life’s obstacles and needs somewhere to turn. They offer health clinic services, a food pantry, counseling, drug and Connecting People 4 Life inc alcohol support, etc. We have donated our printing services, created letterheads, business cards and informational pamphlets. We continue to spread the message that there is a safe place in Blair County for everyone who needs it. 11 2011 Communication on Progress Global Community Impact GC Economic Development 3% Health & Social Services Education 24% Culture & Arts 57% 16% Partners for change ABCD Corp. Hillel American Cancer Society Jake’s Ride BeadforLife Marianna’s Fundraisers Bedford Historical Society Keystone Country Ride Blair County Respiratory Disease Society Outward Bound National Benefit Chabad Jewish Center of Bedford Penn State University Diners Club Professional Insurance Marketing Association Easter Seals of Central PA Simon Weisenthal Center El Paso Zoological Society Toots Pincin Golf Outing Gary Deem Annual Thanksgiving Dinner Toys for Tots 12 2011 Communication on Progress COMMITMENTS UN Global Compact As a signatory to the UN Global Compact since April 2008, NAC has made a voluntary commitment to align its corporate practices with values of sustainability and social responsibility. To uphold our commitment to the UN Global Compact, we strive to promote human rights, labor rights, environmental stewardship and anti-corruption through our actions and strategic planning. Universal Declaration of Human Rights NAC supports the UN General Assembly Universal Declaration of Human Rights. We believe in the alienable rights of all people to enjoy freedom, dignity, equality, justice and peace, and are committed to upholding these rights through our corporate operations and practices. Equal Opportunity NAC endorses equal opportunity for employment and promotion in the workplace, without distinction of race, religion, sex, or disability status. Our commitment as Equal Opportunity Employers is documented in the NAC Associate Handbook. MEMBERSHIPS & ASSOCIATIONS 2011 Communication on Progress 13I Corporate Structure & Governance NAC is a privately-owned U.S. company operating in North America. The NAC Board of Directors is comprised of current and former senior-level executives. The Board of Directors provides the overall vision and CORPORATE guidance of the company, and promote its strategic growth. Code of Ethics & Anti-Corruption NAC operates under a Code of Ethics which promotes honesty, integrity and ethical practices throughout every level of corporate operations, and through all interacOVERVIEW tions with stakeholders. NAC continues to hold a certification by the Customs Trade Partnership Against Terrorism (C-TPAT) and participate in BASC (Business Alliance for Secure Commerce). NAC became and remains part of these programs to promote anti-corruption and transparency in all cross-border operations in the U.S. and Mexico. Compliance NAC and NAMS are committed to upholding compliance with all government mandated regulations, and adhere to many voluntary codes promoting ethical business practices. In 2011, NAC and NAMS had zero Company Headquarters (0) instances of sanctions, fines and legal actions for North American Communications non-compliance with environment regulations, prod7 Edgemont Rd. uct-use regulations, product health and safety codes or Katonah, NY 10536 anti-competitive behavior. Other Corporate Locations Awards & Recognitions North American Communications East Professional Insurance Marketing Association (PIMA), 141 NAC Drive Marketing Methods Competition Bronze Award for Duncansville, PA 16635 ‘Commitment to Excellence in Marketing’ Self Promotion Category. July 2011 North American Communications Texas 9660 Joe Rodriguez Drive, Suite 1-2 Mailing & Fulfillment Services Association (MFSA), El Paso, TX 79927 Awards for Excellence 1st Place ‘Ed Sisk Excellence in Education Award’. June 2011. Contact Questions regarding the content of this report Mailing & Fulfillment Services Association (MFSA), may be directed to: marketing@nacmail.com Awards for Excellence 2nd Place ‘Ed Sisk Excellence in Education Award’. June 2011. Disclaimer “This report is correct to the best of our knowlMailing & Fulfillment Services Association (MFSA), edge, information and belief. The data conAwards for Excellence 2nd Place ‘Chairman’s Website tained herein is for informational purposes only, Award’. June 2011. not represented to be error-free, and subject to change.” Mailing & Fulfillment Services Association (MFSA), Awards for Excellence 2nd Place ‘Company Newsletter Award’. June 2011. Graphic Arts Association (GAA), Neographics Power of Print Competition ‘Franklin Award of Excellence’ in the Flyer/Sell Sheets 4C Category. May 2011. 2011 Communication on Progress 14 This 2011 Communication on Progress reports on the 10 universally-accepted principles embodied by the UN Global Compact in areas of human rights, labor rights, the environment and anti-corruption. Below is an index indication of our reporting against the 10 Principles and their UNGC location within this report. PRINCIPLES PAGE Principle 1 Protection of Human Rights v, 1 Principle 2 Complicity in Human Rights Abuses v, 1-2 PRINCIPLES Principle 3 Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining 1 Principle 4 Forced and Compulsory Labor 1 Principle 5 Child Labor 1 Principle 6 Discrimination 1 Principle 7 Precautionary Approach vi, 4-7 Principle 8 Environmental Responsibility vi, 4-7 Principle 9 Environmentally Friendly Technologies vi, 4-7 Principle 10 Anti-Corruption 14 2011 Communication on Progress 15 GRI REPORTING INDEX GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE (GRI) The index below outlines NAC reporting against the GRI G3 Guidelines and indicates where GRI information can be found within the content of this 2011 Communication on Progress. Sector/Indicator page # Sector/Indicator page # Strategy & Analysis Economic Management 1.1 iii EC3 2 EC8 vi, 10-12 Organizational Profile 2.1 ii Environmental Management 2.2 iv EN5 vi 2.3 14 EN6 vi, 4 2.4 14 EN7 vi, 7 2.5 14 EN10 vi, 8 2.6 14 2.7 iv Labor Practices 2.8 v LA3 2 2.10 14 LA8 2, 3 LA11 3 Reporting Parameters 3.1 ii Human Rights 3.2 ii HR8 v 3.3 ii 3.4 14 Social Disclosure 3.6 ii S08 14 3.12 16 Public Relations Governance, Commitment & PR2 14 Engagement PR8 v 4.1 14 PR9 14 4.12 13 4.13 13 16 2011 Communication on Progress W W W. N A C M A I L . C O M
