MIDHANI – HYDERABAD, INDIA UN GLOBAL COMPACT – COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2012-13 UN GC PRINCIPLE MIDHANI’s STAND AT SIGNIFICANT CONTRIBUTIONS DURING THE PRESENT YEAR HUMAN RIGHTS Implemented a subsidy scheme for contract employees India, a member of the Human Business should support and to enable them avail canteen facility with all employees Rights Council, is a signatory and Principle 1 respect the protection of fully committed to all the internationally proclaimed An in house training program on “Health Awareness and covenants of human rights human rights Stress Management was conducted by Vikalp Social and proclaimed in the Universal Charitable Trust, Nagpur from April 23 – 27, 2012. The Declaration. MIDHANI being a training was attended by three hundred employees. company owned by the Government of India strictly As a part of Corporate Social Responsibility, MIDHANI adheres to the Constitution of has taken up the initiative of organizing skill development India while dealing with any of its programme on 1.11.2012 under Women‟s Empowerment. stakeholders such as employees, In this connection two programmes viz one on poly skills suppliers, contractors, vendors and one on Open Office and internet applications have and customer. commenced. Each programme includes 30 girls students Special provisions are created for of polytechnic College hailing from economically deprived sections of society such backward families has commenced. as socially backward classes, physically Handicapped persons A 20 Seater Swaraj Mazda Vehicle was purchased for and minority categories. transporting women for skill development programme. Rights of all employees are A scheme has been launched to provide medical Make sure that they are not insurance to all retired employees governed by various laws of the complicit in human right land such as Factories Act, Principle 2 abuses Cash awards were given to children of employees of SC Industrial Disputes Act, Minimum wages Act etc. The Right to ST and OBC category for academic excellence. Information Act provides right to every citizen to seek information MIDHANI has entered into MOU with M/s ALIMCO, from the company. Kanpur for distribution of appliances to Persons with Disabilities under CSR activity on December 5, 2012. Elected Union of Employee is a The year under review concluded without any Industrial LABOUR Business should uphold the part of the management in various Relations (IR) issues and an excellent MOU rating form freedom of association and forums such as Joint Council, the Govt. of India. Principle 3 the effective recognition of the Shop Council, Welfare Committee, right to collective bargaining Safety Committee, Canteen Management Committee etc. where issues concerning Memorandum of settlement was entered with the employees are discussed and Recognized Union under Section 12(3) of I.D. Act before decided. Revision of wages as ALC (Central), Hyderabad. On June 23, 2012 on the guided by Govt. appointed issue of revised Monthly Performance Incentive Scheme committees and negotiations in a (MPIS) for 2 years. transparent manner. The elimination of all forms of Principle 4 Employment is governed by the A survey on Customer and Employee Satisfaction has forced and compulsory labour Constitution of India that is based been conducted during Jan‟13. on democratic principles of justice, The effective abolition of child liberty, equality and fraternity. Principle 5 labour MIDHANI provides Equal 10 out of the 34 Management Trainees recruited during The elimination of opportunity in employment and the year are women. discrimination in respect of freedom from discrimination based employment and occupation on region, religion, race, caste, Upcoming plant for the manufacture of fasteners has Principle 6 creed and sex is complete. been declared as all-women plant. Formulated „Prevention and redressal mechanism for sexual Existing policy on maternity leave has been revised with harassment in work place‟ an Increased Maternity Leave and inclusion of Paternity Leave. ENVIRONMENT Compliance with statutory state Carbon Foot Print assessment has been carried out and and central laws of pollution Business should support a scope areas as per GHG protocol identified. Principle 7 control boards Regular checks on precautionary approach to parameters like quality of air, environmental challenges Projects completed during the year with focus on water and ambient noise levels Environmentally friendly technologies are: Undertake initiatives to Upkeep of equipment and Principle 8 promote greater Installation of Effluent treatment plant at pickling shop machinery at all times environmental responsibility preparedness for emergency Encourage the development situations Use of renewable Improvement in Fuel efficiency of 008B furnace of Forge and diffusion of energy sources, continuous shop through installation of ceramic fiber lining environmentally friendly monitoring of specific energy technologies consumption pattern Several greenbelts are created within the premises to Principle 9 improve green environment around melting shop areas Prompt maintenance of furnaces Afforestation measures Water conservation strategies such as construction of check dams and effluent treatment continued ANTI-CORRUPTION Government of India promulgated Business should work against Policy documents on „Risk Management‟ and „Whistle Central Vigilance Commission Principle 10 corruption in all its forms, Blowing‟ have been promulgated with the help of (CVC) Act making CVC as the including extortion and bribery professional consultants M/s Deloitte Haskins & Sells apex body for exercising general superintendence and probity in Actively participated and secured two awards during the public life. In line with the above, th 10 anniversary of Vigilance Study Circle, Hyderabad the Company‟s Vigilance Dept., which is a forum for anti-corruption measures headed by a senior officer from undertaken by various public sector companies Indian Administrative Services oversees all the activities of the Continued improvement towards transparency in organization. procurements through vendor registrations, online All business activities are bound publishing of contracts awarded, increased volume of eby the “Prevention of Corruption procurements Act 1988”. Stringent punishment to corrupt practices and protection to informers is followed. Highest priority is accorded for transparency in procurements and recruitments. Integrity Pact is adopted for all major procurements and Independent External Monitors are appointed to oversee the process. Awareness programs are conducted on a regular basis Auditing is carried out by an exclusive Internal Department as well as Govt. designated auditors Public display of Anti-Corruption policy and contact details for reporting
